[u'The effect of imatinib therapy on tumour cycling hypoxia, tissue oxygenation and vascular reactivity', ['Miguel R. Goncalves', 'Sean Peter Johnson', 'Rajiv Ramasawmy', 'Mark F. Lythgoe', 'R. Barbara Pedley', 'Simon Walker-Samuel'], u'2017/06/06', u'Background: Several biomedical imaging techniques have recently been developed to probe hypoxia in tumours, including oxygen-enhanced (OE) and blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). These techniques have strong potential for measuring both chronic and transient (cycling) changes in hypoxia, and to assess response to vascular-targeting therapies in the clinic.\r\nMethods: In this study, we investigated the use of BOLD and OE-MRI to assess changes in cycling hypoxia, tissue oxygenation and vascular reactivity to hyperoxic gas challenges, in mouse models of colorectal therapy, following treatment with the PDGF-receptor inhibitor, imatinib mesylate (Glivec).\r\nResults: Whilst no changes were observed in imaging biomarkers of cycling hypoxia (from BOLD) or chronic hypoxia (from OE-MRI), the BOLD response to carbogen-breathing became significantly more positive in some tumour regions and more negative in other regions, thereby increasing overall heterogeneity.\r\nConclusions: Imatinib did not affect the magnitude of cycling hypoxia or OE-MRI signal, but increased the heterogeneity of the spatial distribution of BOLD MRI changes in response to gas challenges.', u'/articles/2-38/v1', [], [u'Centre for Advanced Biomedical Imaging, Division of Medicine, University College London, London, WC1E 6DD, UK', u'Cancer Institute, University College London, London, WC1E 6DD, UK']]
[u'Study protocol: A multi-centre, double blind, randomised, placebo-controlled, parallel group, phase II trial (RIDD) to determine the efficacy of intra-nodular injection of anti-TNF to control disease progression in early Dupuytren\u2019s disease, with an embedded dose response study.', ['Jagdeep Nanchahal', 'Catherine Ball', 'Jennifer Swettenham', 'Susan Dutton', 'Vicki Barber', 'Joanna Black', 'Bethan Copsey', 'Melina Dritsaki', 'Peter Taylor', 'Alastair Gray', 'Marc Feldmann', 'Sarah Lamb'], u'2017/06/06', u'Dupuytren\u2019s disease is a common fibrotic condition of the hand affecting 4% of the population and causes the fingers to curl irreversibly into the palm. It has a strong familial tendency, there is no approved treatment for early stage disease, and patients with established digital contractures are most commonly treated by surgery. This is associated with prolonged recovery, and less invasive techniques have high recurrence rates.The myofibroblasts, the cells responsible for the excessive matrix deposition and contraction, are aggregated in nodules. Using excised diseased and control human tissue, we found that immune cells interspersed amongst the myofibroblasts secrete cytokines. Of these, only tumour necrosis factor (TNF) promoted the development of myofibroblasts. The clinically approved anti-TNF agents led to inhibition of the myofibroblast phenotype in vitro. This clinical trial is designed to assess the efficacy of the anti-TNF agent adalimumab on participants with early disease. The first part is a dose-ranging study where nodules of participants already scheduled for surgery will be injected with either placebo (saline) or varying doses of adalimumab. The excised tissue will then be analysed for markers of myofibroblast activity.The second part of the study will recruit participants with early stage disease. They will be randomised 1: 1 to receive either adalimumab or placebo at 3 month intervals over 1 year and will then be followed for a further 6 months. Outcome measures will include nodule hardness, size and disease progression. The trial will also determine the cost-effectiveness of adalimumb treatment for this group of participants.', u'/articles/2-37/v1', [], [u'Kennedy Institute of Rheumatology, University of Oxford, Roosevelt Drive, Oxford, OX3 7FY, UK', u'Oxford Clinical Trials Research Unit, Centre for Statistics in Medicine, Nuffield Department of Orthopaedics, Rheumatology and Musculoskeletal Sciences, University of Oxford, Windmill Road, Oxford, OX3 7LDR, UK', u'Nuffield Department of Orthopaedics, Rheumatology and Musculoskeletal Sciences, University of Oxford, Windmill Road, Oxford, OX3 7LDR, UK', u'Health Economics Research Centre, Nuffield Department of Population Health, University of Oxford, Old Road, Oxford, OX3 7LF, UK']]
