[u'Revisiting the phylogeny of phylum Ctenophora: a molecular perspective', ['Luis A. Arteaga-Figueroa', 'Valentina Sanchez-Bermudez', 'Nicolas D. Franco-Sierra'], u'20 Dec 2016', u'The phylogenetic relationships of deep metazoans, specifically in the phylum Ctenophora, are not totally understood. Previous studies have been developed on this subject, mostly based on morphology and single gene analyses (rRNA sequences). Several loci (protein coding and ribosomal RNA) from taxa belonging to this phylum are currently available on public databases (e.g. GenBank). Here we revisit Ctenophora molecular phylogeny using public sequences and probabilistic methods (Bayesian inference and maximum likelihood). To get more reliable results multi-locus analyses were performed using 5.8S, 28S, ITS1, ITS2 and 18S, and IPNS and GFP-like proteins. Best topologies, consistent with both methods for each data set, are shown and analysed. Comparing the results of the pylogenetic reconstruction with previous research, most clades showed the same relationships as the ones found with morphology and single gene analyses, consistent with hypotheses made in previous research. There were also some unexpected relationships clustering species from different orders.', u'/articles/5-2881/v1', ['Development & Evolution', 'Plant Biology, Ecology & Environmental Sciences'], [u'Semillero de Biolog\u0131a Computacional, Departamento de Ciencias Biologicas, Escuela de Ciencias, Universidad EAFIT, Medellin, Colombia', u'Grupo CIBIOP (Ciencias Biologicas y Bioprocesos), Departamento de Ciencias Biologicas, Escuela de Ciencias, Universidad EAFIT, Medellin, Colombia', u'Grupo BEC (Biodiversidad, Evolucion y Conservacion), Departamento de Ciencias Biologicas, Escuela de Ciencias, Universidad EAFIT, Medell\u0131n, Colombia']]
[u'Meta-analysis of crowdsourced data compendia suggests pan-disease transcriptional signatures of autoimmunity', ['William W. Lau', 'Rachel Sparks', 'John S. Tsang'], u'20 Dec 2016', u'Background: The proliferation of publicly accessible large-scale biological data together with increasing availability of bioinformatics tools have the potential to transform biomedical research. Here we report a crowdsourcing Jamboree that explored whether a team of volunteer biologists without formal bioinformatics training could use OMiCC, a crowdsourcing web platform that facilitates the reuse and (meta-) analysis of public gene expression data, to compile and annotate gene expression data, and design comparisons between disease and control sample groups.\n\nMethods: The Jamboree focused on several common human autoimmune diseases, including systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), multiple sclerosis (MS), type I diabetes (DM1), and rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and the corresponding mouse models. Meta-analyses were performed in OMiCC using comparisons constructed by the participants to identify 1) gene expression signatures for each disease (disease versus healthy controls at the gene expression and biological pathway levels), 2) conserved signatures across all diseases within each species (pan-disease signatures), and 3) conserved signatures between species for each disease and across all diseases (cross-species signatures).\n\nResults: A large number of differentially expressed genes were identified for each disease based on meta-analysis, with observed overlap among diseases both within and across species. Gene set/pathway enrichment of upregulated genes suggested conserved signatures (e.g., interferon) across all human and mouse conditions.\n\nConclusions: Our Jamboree exercise provides evidence that when enabled by appropriate tools, a "crowd" of biologists can work together to accelerate the pace by which the increasingly large amounts of public data can be reused and meta-analyzed for generating and testing hypotheses. Our encouraging experience suggests that a similar crowdsourcing approach can be used to explore other biological questions.', u'/articles/5-2884/v1', ['Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology'], [u'Office of Intramural Research, Center for Information Technology, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, USA', u'Systems Genomics and Bioinformatics Unit, Laboratory of Systems Biology, National Institutes of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, USA']]
[u'ISCB-Student Council Narratives: Strategical development of the ISCB-Regional Student Groups in 2016', ['Sayane Shome', 'Pieter Meysman', 'R. Gonzalo Parra', 'Alexander Miguel Monzon', 'Nicolas Palopoli', 'Benjamen White', 'Farzana Rahman', 'Mehedi Hassan', 'Zeynep Ozkeserli', 'Efejiro Ashano', 'V. Keith Hughitt', 'Muhammad Uzair Khan', 'Denis J. Murphy'], u'20 Dec 2016', u"Regional Student Groups are groups established and managed by the ISCB-Student Council in different regions of the world. The article highlights some of the initiatives and management lessons from our 'top-performing' Spotlight Regional Student Groups (RSGs), RSG-Argentina and RSG-UK, for the current year (2016). In addition, it details some of the operational hurdles faced by RSGs and possible solutions.", u'/articles/5-2882/v1', ['Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology'], [u'Bioinformatics and Computational Biology Program,, Iowa State University, Ames, USA', u'Advanced Database Research and Modeling group (ADReM), Department of Mathematics and Computer Science, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium', u'Biomedical Informatics Research Network Antwerp (biomina), University Hospital Antwerp/University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium', u'Protein Physiology Laboratory, Departamento de Qu\xedmica Biol\xf3gica, Facultad de Ciencias Exactas y Naturales, UBA-CONICET-IQUIBICEN, Buenos Aires, Argentina', u'Quantitative and Computational Biology Group, Max Planck Institute for Biophysical Chemistry, Goettingen, Germany', u'Departamento de Ciencia y Tecnolog\xeda, Universidad Nacional de Quilmes, CONICET, Buenos Aires, Argentina', u'Unidad de F\xedsico Qu\xedmica, Departamento de Ciencia y Tecnolog\xeda, Universidad Nacional de Quilmes, CONICET, Buenos Aires, Argentina', u'Fundaci\xf3n Instituto Leloir-IIBBA-CONICET, Buenos Aires, Argentina', u'Earlham Institute, Norwich Research Park, Norwich, UK', u'Genomics and Computational Biology Research Group, Faculty of Computing, Engineering and Science, University of South Wales, Wales, UK', u'Medical Biotechnology Program, Bioinformatics Group, Institute of Medical Sciences, Acibadem University, Istanbul, Turkey', u'Immuno-virology and Vaccine Development Unit, Medical Biotechnology Department, National Biotechnology Development Agency, Abuja, Nigeria', u'Bioinformatics Research Group, Covenant University, Ota, Nigeria', u'Department of Cell Biology and Molecular Genetics, University of Maryland, College Park, USA', u'Center for Bioinformatics and Computational Biology, University of Maryland, College Park, USA', u'Biotechnology and biotechnology program. Institute of integrative biosciences, CECOS University of Information Technology and Emerging Sciences, KPK, Pakistan']]
[u'Analysis of distribution of chromatin marks across "divergence islands" in three-spined stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus)', ['Alexey Sokolov', 'Svetlana Zhenilo', 'Sergey Rastorguev', 'Alexander Mazur', 'Egor Prokhortchouk'], u'20 Dec 2016', u'The three-spined stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus) is a well-known model organism for studying \xa0adaptations to water salinity. In this work, we investigate the dynamics of an epigenetic landscape of water salinity adaptation using three chromatin marks: H3K27ac, H3K4me1 and H3K4me3. The choice of marks was determined by the fact that some adaptive genomic loci are situated in gene-free regions, suggesting their regulatory role as enhancers. Histone modifications seem to be a promising mechanism that could regulate such regions. Difference between histone modifications in sea and freshwater - both in genes and intergenic enhancers - may contribute to epigenetic plasticity of stickleback adaptation. As a result of this study, we found differential chromatin peaks in "divergence islands" at enhancer elements and promoters of genes, which are responsible for stress adaptation and homeostasis. However, a full genome study analysis is required to fully understand mechanism of adaptation to water salinity.', u'/articles/5-2880/v1', ['Plant Biology, Ecology & Environmental Sciences'], [u'Institute of Bioengineering, Research Center of Biotechnology of the Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow, Russian Federation', u"National Research Center 'Kurchatov Institute', Moscow, Russian Federation"]]
