[u'Monitoring the compliance of the academic enterprise with the Fair Labor Standards Act', ['Adriana Bankston', 'Gary S. McDowell'], u'17 Nov 2016', u'Background: On December 1 2016, the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) will be updated by the U.S. Department of Labor. The key changes are an increase in the salary threshold for exemption from overtime for working more than 40 hours per week, and indexing the salary level so that it is updated automatically every 3 years. This update is predicted to have a profound effect on the academic enterprise as a large proportion of the postdoctoral researcher population is currently paid at a salary below the new threshold for exemption. Here we review the key changes to the FLSA, how they came about, and how the postdoctoral population is affected by the ruling.\nMethods: We describe recent data collection efforts (checking university websites and contacting HR departments) to uncover what institutions in the 2014 NSF Survey of Graduate Students and Postdoctorates in Science and Engineering are doing to comply with the FLSA ruling for postdocs.\nResults: Our data show that 41% of the estimated postdoctoral workforce in STEM and 57% of institutions checked have not decided or have no public decision yet available one month prior to implementation, and only 35.5% of institutions are planning to raise salaries to the new minimum.\nConclusions: Our data show the uncertainty of postdoc salaries in the U.S. one month prior to implementation of the FLSA ruling. This implementation also gives rise to various issues that have arisen in an already strained research enterprise, including short-, medium- and long-term effects on academe.', u'/articles/5-2690/v1', ['Publishing, Education & Communication'], [u'The Future of Research, Inc., 848 Brockton Avenue, Abington, MA, USA', u'Manylabs, 1086 Folsom Street, San Francisco, CA, USA']]
[u'YeATSAM analysis of the walnut and chickpea transcriptome reveals key genes undetected by current annotation tools', ['Sandeep Chakraborty', 'Pedro J. Martinez-Garcia', 'Abhaya M. Dandekar'], u'17 Nov 2016', u'Background: The transcriptome, a treasure trove of gene space information, remains severely under-used by current genome annotation methods.\xa0Methods: Here, we present an annotation method in the YeATS suite (YeATSAM), based on information encoded by the transcriptome, that demonstrates artifacts of the assembler, which must be addressed to achieve proper annotation.\xa0Results and Discussion:\xa0YeATSAM was applied to the transcriptome obtained from twenty walnut tissues and compared to MAKER-P annotation of the recently published walnut genome sequence (WGS). MAKER-P and YeATSAM both failed to annotate several hundred proteins found by the other. Although many of these unannotated proteins have repetitive sequences (possibly transposable elements), other crucial proteins were excluded by each method. An egg cell-secreted protein and a homer protein were undetected by YeATSAM, although these did not produce any transcripts. Importantly, MAKER-P failed to classify key photosynthesis-related proteins, which we show emanated from Trinity assembly artifacts potentially not handled by MAKER-P. Also, no proteins from the large berberine bridge enzyme (BBE) family were annotated by MAKER-P. BBE is implicated in biosynthesis of several alkaloids metabolites, like anti-microbial berberine. As further validation, YeATSAM identified ~1000 genes that are not annotated in the NCBI database by Gnomon. YeATSAM used a RNA-seq derived chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.) transcriptome assembled using Newbler v2.3.\xa0Conclusions:\xa0Since the current version of YeATSAM does not have an ab initio module, we suggest a combined annotation scheme using both MAKER-P and YeATSAM to comprehensively and accurately annotate the WGS.', u'/articles/5-2689/v1', ['Plant Biology, Ecology & Environmental Sciences'], [u'Department of Plant Sciences, University of California, Davis, USA']]
