[u'search.bioPreprint: a discovery tool for cutting edge, preprint biomedical research articles', ['Carrie L. Iwema', 'John LaDue', 'Angela Zack', 'Ansuman Chattopadhyay'], u'16 Jun 2016', u'The time it takes for a completed manuscript to be published traditionally can be extremely lengthy. Article publication delay, which occurs in part due to constraints associated with peer review, can prevent the timely dissemination of critical and actionable data associated with new information on rare diseases or developing health concerns such as Zika virus. Preprint servers are open access online repositories housing preprint research articles that enable authors (1) to make their research immediately and freely available and (2) to receive commentary and peer review prior to journal submission. There is a growing movement of preprint advocates aiming to change the current journal publication and peer review system, proposing that preprints catalyze biomedical discovery, support career advancement, and improve scientific communication. While the number of articles submitted to and hosted by preprint servers are gradually increasing, there has been no simple way to identify biomedical research published in a preprint format, as they are not typically indexed and are only discoverable by directly searching the specific preprint server websites. To address this issue, we created a search engine that quickly compiles preprints from disparate host repositories and provides a one-stop search solution. Additionally, we developed a web application that bolsters the discovery of preprints by enabling each and every word or phrase appearing to with articles from preprint servers. This tool, search.bioPreprint, is publicly available at http://www.hsls.pitt.edu/resources/preprint.', u'/articles/5-1396/v1', ['Publishing, Education & Communication'], [u'Health Sciences Library System, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, USA']]
[u'High prevalence of diabetes mellitus and impaired glucose tolerance in liver cancer patients: A hospital based study of 4610 patients with benign tumors or specific cancers', ['Chen Roujun', 'Yi Yanhua', 'Li Bixun'], u'16 Jun 2016', u'Objective: The prevalence of diabetes mellitus (DM), impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) and impaired fasting glucose (IFG) were hypothesised to be different among different tumor patients. This study aimed to study the association between the prevalence of DM, IGT and IFG and liver cancer, colorectal cancer, breast cancer, cervical cancer, nasopharyngeal cancer and benign tumor.\nMethods:\xa0 A hospital based retrospective study was conducted on 4610 patients admitted to the Internal Medical Department of the Affiliated Tumor Hospital of Guangxi Medical University, China. Logistic regression was used to examine the association between gender, age group, ethnicity , cancer types or benign tumors and prevalence of DM, IFG, IGT.\nResults: Among 4610 patients, there were 1000 liver cancer patients, 373 breast cancer patients, 415 nasopharyngeal cancer patients, 230 cervical cancer patients, 405 colorectal cancer patients, and 2187 benign tumor patients. The prevalence of DM and IGT in liver cancer patients was 14.7% and 22.1%, respectively. The prevalence of DM and IGT was 13.8% and 20%, respectively, in colorectal cancer patients, significantly higher than that of benign cancers. After adjusting for gender, age group, and ethnicity, the prevalence of DM and IGT in liver cancers patients was 1.29 times (CI\xa0:1.12-1.66) and 1.49 times (CI\xa0:1.20-1.86) higher than that of benign tumors, respectively.\nConclusion: There was a high prevalence of DM and IGT in liver cancer patients.', u'/articles/5-1397/v1', ['Endocrinology & Gastroenterology', 'Oncology & Hematology'], [u'Department of Internal Medicine, Affiliated Tumor Hospital of Guangxi Medical University, Guangxi, China', u'School for International Education, Guangxi Medical University, Guangxi, China']]
