[u'Crafting minds and communities with Minecraft', ['Benjamin C. Riordan', 'Damian Scarf'], u'19 Sep 2016', u'Minecraft is a first-person perspective video game in which players roam freely in a large three-dimensional environment. Players mine the landscape for minerals and use these minerals to create structures (e.g., houses) and mould the landscape. But can Minecraft be used to craft communities and minds? In this opinion piece, we highlight the enormous potential of Minecraft for fostering social connectedness, collaboration, and its potential as an educational tool. We highlight the recent use of Minecraft to aid socialization in individuals with Autistic Spectrum Disorder (ASD) and promote civic engagement via the United Nations Human Settlement Program. We further discuss the potential for the recently released Minecraft: Education Edition and provide novel links between Minecraft and recent on work on the role of social cures and community empowerment in enhancing mental health, wellbeing, and resilience.', u'/articles/5-2339/v1', ['Public Health & Epidemiology', 'Publishing, Education & Communication', 'Neuroscience, Neurology & Psychiatry'], [u'Department of Psychology, University of Otago, Dunedin, 9054, New Zealand']]
[u'GeneBreak: detection of recurrent DNA copy number aberration-associated chromosomal breakpoints within genes', ['Evert van den Broek', 'Stef van Lieshout', 'Christian Rausch', 'Bauke Ylstra', 'Mark A. van de Wiel', 'Gerrit A. Meijer', 'Remond J.A. Fijneman', 'Sanne Abeln'], u'19 Sep 2016', u'Development of cancer is driven by somatic alterations, including numerical and structural chromosomal aberrations. Currently, several computational methods are available and are widely applied to detect numerical copy number aberrations (CNAs) of chromosomal segments in tumor genomes. However, there is lack of computational methods that systematically detect structural chromosomal aberrations by virtue of the genomic location of CNA-associated chromosomal breaks and identify genes that appear non-randomly affected by chromosomal breakpoints across (large) series of tumor samples. \u2018GeneBreak\u2019 is developed to systematically identify genes recurrently affected by the genomic location of chromosomal CNA-associated breaks by a genome-wide approach, which can be applied to DNA copy number data obtained by array-Comparative Genomic Hybridization (CGH) or by (low-pass) whole genome sequencing (WGS). First, \u2018GeneBreak\u2019 collects the genomic locations of chromosomal CNA-associated breaks that were previously pinpointed by the segmentation algorithm that was applied to obtain CNA profiles. Next, a tailored annotation approach for breakpoint-to-gene mapping is implemented. Finally, dedicated cohort-based statistics is incorporated with correction for covariates that influence the probability to be a breakpoint gene. In addition, multiple testing correction is integrated to reveal recurrent breakpoint events. This easy-to-use algorithm, \u2018GeneBreak\u2019, is implemented in R (www.cran.r-project.org) and is available from Bioconductor (www.bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/html/GeneBreak.html).', u'/articles/5-2340/v1', ['Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology'], [u'Department of Pathology, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, 1081 HZ, Netherlands', u'Department of Epidemiology & Biostatistics, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, 1081 HZ, Netherlands', u'Department of Mathematics, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, Amsterdam, 1081 HV, Netherlands', u'Department of Computer Science, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, 1081 HV, Netherlands', u'Department of Pathology, Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam, 1066CX, Netherlands']]
