[u'Metagenomic analysis of an ecological wastewater treatment plant\u2019s microbial communities and their potential to metabolize pharmaceuticals', ['Ian N. Balcom', 'Heather Driscoll', 'James Vincent', 'Meagan Leduc'], u'28 Jul 2016', u'Pharmaceuticals and other micropollutants have been detected in drinking water, groundwater, surface water, and soil around the world. Even in locations where wastewater treatment is required, they can be found in drinking water wells, municipal water supplies, and agricultural soils. It is clear conventional wastewater treatment technologies are not meeting the challenge of the mounting pressures on global freshwater supplies. Cost-effective ecological wastewater treatment technologies have been developed in response. To determine whether the removal of micropollutants in ecological wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) is promoted by the plant-microbe interactions, as has been reported for other recalcitrant xenobiotics, biofilm microbial communities growing on the surfaces of plant roots were profiled by whole metagenome sequencing and compared to the microbial communities residing in the wastewater. In this study, the concentrations of pharmaceuticals and personal care products (PPCPs) were quantified in each treatment tank of the ecological WWTP treating human wastewater at a highway rest stop and visitor center in Vermont. The concentrations of detected PPCPs were substantially greater than values reported for conventional WWTPs likely due to onsite recirculation of wastewater. The greatest reductions in PPCPs concentrations were observed in the anoxic treatment tank where Bacilli dominated the biofilm community. Benzoate degradation was the most abundant xenobiotic metabolic category identified throughout the system. Collectively, the microbial communities residing in the wastewater were taxonomically and metabolically more diverse than the immersed plant root biofilm. However, greater heterogeneity and higher relative abundances of xenobiotic metabolism genes was observed for the root biofilm.', u'/articles/5-1881/v1', ['Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology', 'Plant Biology, Ecology & Environmental Sciences'], [u'Department of Natural Sciences, Lyndon State College, Lyndonville, VT, USA', u'Vermont Genetics Network, Department of Biology and Physical Education, Norwich University, Northfield, VT, USA', u'Vermont Genetics Network, Department of Biology, University of Vermont, Burlington, VT, USA']]
