[u'Mursamacin: a novel class of antibiotics from soil-dwelling roundworms of Central Kenya that inhibits methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus', ['Ryan Musumba Awori', "Peter Njenga Ng'ang'a", 'Lorine Nanjala Nyongesa', 'Nelson Onzere Amugune'], u'03 Oct 2016', u'Antibiotic-resistant bacteria, also called \u201csuperbugs\u201d, can at worst retrogress modern medicine to an era where even sore throats resulted in death. A solution is the development of novel types of antibiotics from untapped natural sources. Yet, no new class of antibiotic has been developed in clinical medicine in the last 30 years. Here, bacteria from insect-killing Steinernema roundworms in the soils of Central Kenya were isolated and subjected to specific molecular identification. These were then assayed for production of antibiotic compounds with potential to treat methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus infections. The bacteria were identified as Xenorhabdus griffiniae and produced cell free supernatants that inhibited S. aureus. Fermenting the bacteria for 4 days yielded a heat stable anti-staphylococcal class of compounds that at low concentrations also inhibited methicillin-resistant S. aureus. This class contained two major compounds whose identity remains unknown. Thus X. griffinae isolated from Steinernema roundworms in Kenya have antimicrobial potential and may herald novel and newly sourced potential medicines for treatment of the world\u2019s most prevalent antibiotic resistant bacteria.', u'/articles/5-2431/v1', ['Immunology, Microbiology & Infectious Diseases', 'Plant Biology, Ecology & Environmental Sciences', 'Physiology, Pharmacology & Drug Discovery'], [u'Trek Science, P.O Box 44947-00100, Nairobi, Kenya', u'School of Biological Sciences, University of Nairobi, P. O Box 30197-00100, Nairobi, Kenya']]
[u'Quercetin feeding protects plants against oxidative stress', ['Jasmina Kurepa', 'Timothy E. Shull', 'Jan A. Smalle'], u'03 Oct 2016', u'Background: Flavonoids are a complex group of plant-made phenolic compounds that are considered of high nutraceutical value. Their beneficial impacts on human health relate predominantly to their capacity to serve as antioxidants, thus protecting cells against the damaging impact of reactive oxygen species. Recent studies have also pointed at an essential role for flavonoids as antioxidants in plants.\nResults: Here we show that the flavonoid quercetin, which is known to protect human cells from oxidative stress, has the same effect on plant cells. Under oxidative stress conditions, Arabidopsis plants grown on quercetin-supplemented media grew better than controls and contained less oxidized proteins. This protection was also observed in the dicot Nicotiana tabacum and the aquatic monocot Lemna gibba.\nConclusion: Quercetin can be used as a general antioxidant stress protectant for plants.', u'/articles/5-2430/v1', ['Plant Biology, Ecology & Environmental Sciences'], [u'Plant Physiology, Biochemistry, Molecular Biology Program, Department of Plant and Soil Sciences, University of Kentucky, Lexington, 40546, USA']]
