[u'Matching target dose to target organ', ['Desmond I. Bannon', 'Marc A. Williams'], u'29 Nov 2016', u'In vitro assays have become a mainstay of modern approaches to toxicology with the promise of replacing or reducing the number of in vivo tests required to establish benchmark doses, as well as increasing mechanistic understanding. However, matching target dose to target organ is an often overlooked aspect of in vitro assays, and the calibration of in vitro exposure against in vivo benchmark doses is often ignored, inadvertently or otherwise.\xa0 An example of this was recently published in Environmental Health Perspectives by Wagner et al., where neural stems cells were used to model the molecular toxicity of lead.\xa0 On closer examination of the in vitro work, the doses used in media reflected in vivo lead doses that would be at the highest end of lead toxicity, perhaps even lethal.\xa0 Here we discuss the doses used and suggest more realistic doses for future work with stem cells or other neuronal cell lines.', u'/articles/5-2785/v1', ['Public Health & Epidemiology'], [u'Toxicology Directorate, Health Effects Division, U.S. Army Public Health Center, Edgewood, MD, USA']]
[u'In vitro comparison of three earwax removal formulations\xa0for the disintegration of earwax', ['Janice Knebl', 'Barbara Harty', 'C. Eric Anderson', 'W. Dennis Dean', 'Joseph Griffin'], u'29 Nov 2016', u'Introduction: Impacted cerumen is a widespread reason that patients visit their health care providers. It effects approximately 2-6% of the general population and disproportionately impacts up to 65% of patients over 65. This study compared a new cerumen (earwax) removal product (Solution 1; EOS-002; a glycolic acid/bicarbonate formulation) versus two commercially available products (Solution 2 and Solution 3; both containing carbamide peroxide 6.5%) for their cerumenolytic activity in vitro.\xa0Methods: Samples of human cerumen were placed in 10 x 75 mm polypropylene test tubes. Approximately 1 mL of each test solution was added and incubated at room temperature for 30 minutes. The vials were shaken at the 15- and 30-minute time points to simulate rinsing in a clinical setting. Breakdown of the cerumen was graded at 5-, 10-, 15-, and 30-minute time points in a masked manner on a 5-point scale (Grade 0 = no change; Grade 4 = complete disintegration).\xa0Results: Significantly greater disintegration of the cerumen was observed in the samples exposed to EOS-002 at every time point (P < 0.0001). At 5 minutes, disintegration was observed in 39 out of 43 samples exposed to EOS-002, 0 out of 24 samples exposed to Solution 2, and 1 out of 19 samples exposed to Solution 3. Mean disintegration scores at 5, 10, 15, and 30 minutes were 1.65, 2.38, 2.95, and 3.24 for EOS-002; 0, 0, 0, and 0.2 for Solution 2; and 0.05, 0.13, 0.16, and 0.21 for Solution 3, respectively.\xa0Discussion: EOS-002 exhibited a significantly greater ability to breakdown cerumen than the two other products. Disintegration of cerumen occurred with EOS-002 within 5 minutes in 91% (39/43) of the samples. Therefore, EOS-002 provides rapid disintegration of human cerumen in vitro.', u'/articles/5-2784/v1', ['Eye Disorders & ENT'], [u'University of North Texas Health Science Center, Fort Worth, USA', u'Independent Medicinal Chemistry Consultant, Southlake, USA', u'Dean Process Strategies, LLC, Burleson, USA', u'Eosera, Inc., Fort Worth, USA']]
[u'Animating and exploring phylogenies with fibre plots', ['William D. Pearse'], u'29 Nov 2016', u"Despite the progress that has been made in the visualisation of information since Haeckel's time, phylogenetic visualisation has moved forward remarkably little. In this brief essay, I give a short review of what I consider to be some recent major advances, and outline a new kind of phylogenetic visualisation. This new graphic, the fibre plot, uses the metaphor of sections through a tree to describe change in a phylogeny. As an animation, I suggest it is a powerful method to help interpret large phylogenetic hypotheses, although snapshots of it can also be displayed. As we enter the Anthropocene, I argue there has never been a greater need to know humanity's true place in the world, as depicted in the tree of life.", u'/articles/5-2790/v1', ['Development & Evolution', 'Plant Biology, Ecology & Environmental Sciences'], [u'Department of Biology & Ecology Center, University of Utah, Logan, USA']]
[u'Recapitulating phylogenies using k-mers: from trees to networks', ['Guillaume Bernard', 'Mark A. Ragan', 'Cheong Xin Chan'], u'29 Nov 2016', u'Ernst Haeckel based his landmark Tree of Life on the supposed ontogenic recapitulation of phylogeny, i.e. that successive embryonic stages during the development of an organism re-trace the morphological forms of its ancestors over the course of evolution. Much of this idea has since been discredited. Today, phylogenies are often based on molecular sequences. A typical phylogenetic inference aims to capture and represent, in the form of a tree, the evolutionary history of a family of molecular sequences. The standard approach starts with a multiple sequence alignment, in which the sequences are arranged relative to each other in a way that maximises a measure of similarity position-by-position along their entire length. However, this approach ignores important evolutionary processes that are known to shape the genomes of microbes (bacteria, archaea and some morphologically simple eukaryotes). Recombination, genome rearrangement and lateral genetic transfer undermine the assumptions that underlie multiple sequence alignment, and imply that a tree-like structure may be too simplistic. Here, using genome sequences of 143 bacterial and archaeal genomes, we construct a network of phylogenetic relatedness based on the number of shared k-mers (subsequences at fixed length k). Our findings suggest that the network captures not only key aspects of microbial genome evolution as inferred from a tree, but also features that are not treelike. The method is highly scalable, allowing for investigation of genome evolution across a large number of genomes. Instead of using specific regions or sequences from genome sequences, or indeed Haeckel\u2019s idea of ontogeny, we argue that genome phylogenies can be inferred using k-mers from whole-genome sequences. Representing these networks dynamically allows biological questions of interest to be formulated and addressed quickly and in a visually intuitive manner.', u'/articles/5-2789/v1', ['Development & Evolution', 'Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology', 'Plant Biology, Ecology & Environmental Sciences'], [u'Institute for Molecular Bioscience, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia']]
[u'Mutations of the CHEK2 gene in patients with cancer and their presence in the Latin American population', ['Sandra Guauque-Olarte', 'Ana-Lucia Rivera-Herrera', 'Laura Cifuentes-C'], u'29 Nov 2016', u'Background: CHEK2 (Checkpoint Kinase 2) encodes CHK2, a serine/threonine kinase involved in maintaining the G1/S and G2/M checkpoints and repair of double-strand DNA breaks via homologous recombination. Functions of CHK2 include the prevention of damaged cells from going through the cell cycle or proliferating and the maintenance of chromosomal stability. CHEK2 mutations have been reported in a variety of cancers including glioblastoma, ovarian, prostate, colorectal, gastric, thyroid, and lung cancer in studies performed mainly in White populations. The most studied mutation in CHEK2 is c.1100delC, which was associated with increased risk of breast cancer. The objective of this study was to compile mutations in CHEK2 identified in cancer genomics studies in different populations and especially in Latin American individuals.\nMethods: A revision of cancer genomics data repositories and a profound literature review of Latin American studies was performed.\nResults: Mutations with predicted high impact in CHEK2 were reported in studies from Australia, Japan, United States, among other countries. The TCGA cancer types with most\xa0mutations in CHEK2 were breast, colorectal, and non-small cell lung cancer. The most common mutation found was E321* in three patients with uterine cancer. In Latin American individuals nine mutations were found in melanoma, lymphoma, and head and neck cohorts from TCGA and ICGC. Latin American studies have been restricted to breast and colorectal cancer and only two mutations out of four that have been interrogated in this population were identified, namely c.1100delC and c.349A>G.\nConclusions: This study presents a compilation of mutations in CHEK2 with high impact in different cancer types in White, Hispanic and other populations. We also show the necessity of screening CHEK2 mutations in Latin American in cancer types different than breast and colorectal.', u'/articles/5-2791/v1', ['Oncology & Hematology', 'Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology'], [u'GIOD Group, Faculty of Dentistry, Universidad Cooperativa de Colombia, Pasto, Colombia', u'Human Molecular Genetics Lab, Biology Department, Universidad del Valle, Cali, Colombia']]
