[u'Effects of sub-lethal teratogen exposure during larval development on egg laying and egg quality in adult Caenorhabditis elegans', ['Alexis Killeen', 'Caralina Marin de Evsikova'], u'28 Dec 2016', u'Background:\xa0Acute high dose exposure to teratogenic chemicals alters the proper development of an embryo leading to infertility, impaired fecundity, and few viable offspring. However, chronic exposure to sub-toxic doses of teratogens during early development may also have long-term impacts on egg quality and embryo viability. Methods:\xa0To test the hypothesis that low dose exposure during early development can impact long-term reproductive health, Caenorhabditis elegans larvae were exposed to 10 teratogens during larval development, and subsequently were examined for the pattern of egg-laying and egg quality (hatched larvae and embryo viability) as gravid adults.\xa0After the exposure, adult gravid worms were transferred to untreated plates and the numbers of eggs laid were recorded every 3 hours, and the day following exposure the numbers of hatched larvae were counted. Results:\xa0While fecundity and fertility were typically impaired by teratogens, unexpectedly, many teratogens initially increased egg-laying at the earliest interval compared to control but not at later intervals. However, egg quality, as assessed by embryo viability, remained the same because many of the eggs (<50%) did not hatch. Conclusions:\xa0Chronic, low dose exposures to teratogens during early larval development have subtle, long-term effects on egg laying and egg quality.', u'/articles/5-2925/v1', ['Development & Evolution', 'Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology'], [u'Department of Molecular Medicine, Morsani College of Medicine, University of South Florida, Tampa, USA']]
[u'Systematic assessment of multi-gene predictors of pan-cancer cell line sensitivity to drugs exploiting gene expression data', ['Linh Nguyen', 'Cuong C Dang', 'Pedro Ballester'], u'28 Dec 2016', u'Background: Selected gene mutations are routinely used to guide the selection of cancer drugs for a given patient tumour. Large pharmacogenomic data sets were introduced to discover more of these single-gene markers of drug sensitivity. Very recently, machine learning regression has been used to investigate how well cancer cell line sensitivity to drugs is predicted depending on the type of molecular profile. The latter has revealed that gene expression data is the most predictive profile in the pan-cancer setting. However, no study to date has exploited GDSC data to systematically compare the performance of machine learning models based on multi-gene expression data against that of widely-used single-gene markers based on genomics data. Methods: Here we present this systematic comparison using Random Forest (RF) classifiers exploiting the expression levels of 13,321 genes and an average of 501 tested cell lines per drug. To account for time-dependent batch effects in IC50 measurements, we employ independent test sets generated with more recent GDSC data than that used to train the predictors and show that this is a more realistic validation than K-fold cross-validation. Results and Discussion: Across 127 GDSC drugs, our results show that the single-gene markers unveiled by the MANOVA analysis tend to achieve higher precision than these RF-based multi-gene models, at the cost of generally having a poor recall (i.e. correctly detecting only a small part of the cell lines sensitive to the drug). Regarding overall classification performance, about two thirds of the drugs are better predicted by multi-gene RF classifiers. Among the drugs with the most predictive of these models, we found pyrimethamine, sunitinib and 17-AAG. Conclusions: We now know that this type of models can predict in vitro tumour response to these drugs. These models can thus be further investigated on in vivo tumour models.', u'/articles/5-2927/v1', ['Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology'], [u'Cancer Research Center of Marseille, INSERM U1068, Marseille, France', u'Institut Paoli-Calmettes, Marseille, France', u'Aix-Marseille Universit\xe9, Marseille, France', u'Cancer Research Center of Marseille UMR7258, Marseille, France']]
[u'A Bioconductor workflow for processing and analysing spatial proteomics data', ['Lisa M. Breckels', 'Claire M. Mulvey', 'Kathryn S. Lilley', 'Laurent Gatto'], u'28 Dec 2016', u'Spatial proteomics is the systematic study of protein sub-cellular localisation. In this workflow, we describe the analysis of a typical quantitative mass spectrometry-based spatial proteomics experiment using the MSnbase and pRoloc Bioconductor package suite. To walk the user through the computational pipeline, we use a recently published experiment predicting protein sub-cellular localisation in pluripotent embryonic mouse stem cells. We describe the software infrastructure at hand, importing and processing data, quality control, sub-cellular marker definition, visualisation and interactive exploration. We then demonstrate the application and interpretation of statistical learning methods, including novelty detection using semi-supervised learning, classification, clustering and transfer learning and conclude the pipeline with data export. The workflow is aimed at beginners who are familiar with proteomics in general and spatial proteomics in particular.', u'/articles/5-2926/v1', ['Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology', 'Physiology, Pharmacology & Drug Discovery'], [u'Computational Proteomics Unit, Cambridge Systems Biology Centre, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK', u'Cambridge Centre for Proteomics, Department of Biochemistry, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK']]
