[u'Environmental volunteer well-being: Managers\u2019 perception and actual well-being of\xa0volunteers', ['Gitte Kragh', 'Rick Stafford', 'Susanna Curtin', 'Anita Diaz'], u'16 Nov 2016', u'Background: Environmental volunteering can increase well-being, but environmental volunteer well-being has rarely been compared to participant well-being associated with other types of volunteering or nature-based activities. This paper aims to use a multidimensional approach to well-being to explore the immediately experienced and later remembered well-being of environmental volunteers and to compare this to the increased well-being of participants in other types of nature-based activities and volunteering. Furthermore, it aims to compare volunteer managers\u2019 perceptions of their volunteers\u2019 well-being with the self-reported well-being of the volunteers. Methods: Onsite surveys were conducted of practical conservation and biodiversity monitoring volunteers, as well as their control groups (walkers and fieldwork students, respectively), to measure general well-being before their nature-based activity and activity-related well-being immediately after their activity. Online surveys of current, former and potential volunteers and volunteer managers measured remembered volunteering-related well-being and managers\u2019 perceptions of their volunteers\u2019 well-being. Data were analysed based on Seligman\u2019s multidimensional PERMA (\u2018positive emotion\u2019, \u2018engagement\u2019, \u2018positive relationship\u2019, \u2018meaning\u2019, \u2018achievement\u2019) model of well-being. Factor analysis recovered three of the five PERMA elements, \u2018engagement\u2019, \u2018relationship\u2019 and \u2018meaning\u2019, as well as \u2018negative emotion\u2019 and \u2018health\u2019 as factors. Results: Environmental volunteering significantly improved positive elements and significantly decreased negative elements of participants\u2019 immediate well-being, and it did so more than walking or student fieldwork. Even remembering their volunteering up to six months later, volunteers rated their volunteering-related well-being higher than volunteers rated their well-being generally in life. However, volunteering was not found to have an effect on overall mean well-being generally in life. Volunteer managers did not perceive the significant increase in well-being that volunteers reported. Conclusions: This study showed how environmental volunteering immediately improved participants\u2019 well-being, even more than other nature-based activities. It highlights the benefit of regarding well-being as a multidimensional construct to more systematically understand, support and enhance volunteer well-being.', u'/articles/5-2679/v1', ['Public Health & Epidemiology', 'Plant Biology, Ecology & Environmental Sciences'], [u'Department of Life & Environmental Sciences, Faculty of Science and Technology, Bournemouth University, Poole, UK', u'Department of Tourism and Hospitality, Faculty of Management, Bournemouth University, Poole, UK']]
[u'Cost-effectiveness of once-daily versus twice-daily regimens in the treatment of HIV infection in sub-Saharan Africa: a probabilistic decision model', ['Muinat B. Sanni-Oba', 'Olalekan A. Uthman', 'Jean B. Nachega'], u'16 Nov 2016', u'BACKGROUND: Regimen simplification of ART, by administering them less frequently, has been suggested as a practical approach to improve adherence. The aim of this study was to assess the cost-utility of once-daily (QD) versus twice-daily (BID) antiretroviral (ART) regimens in the treatment of HIV.\xa0METHODS: A Model-based Markov modelling of cost-effectiveness using secondary data sources was developed to determine the incremental cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained of QD versus BID ART regimen for a hypothetical cohort treatment-na\xefve adults with HIV, from the Sub-Saharan African healthcare payer\u2019s perspective.\xa0RESULTS: At base-case values for all parameters, the total number of QALY gained by QD regimen was 0.27 and the incremental cost difference of $2147.04. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of QD versus BID regimen was $8087/QALY gained. The ICER was most sensitive to the variations in the total medical cost of state A (asymptomatic, non-AIDS, CD4> 350 cells/\u03bcL), total medical Cost State D (symptomatic AIDS or severe symptoms), and utility of State A. In our bootstrap analysis, 60% of bootstrap replicates for the ICER shows that QD is more costly and more effective than BID regimen, while the remaining 40% replicates shows that QD is less costly and less effective than BID. If decision-makers were willing to pay $1000 per QALY gained, the probability of QD being cost-effective was 44%. The probability of QD regimen being cost-effective was 48% when the willing to pay was $5000.\xa0CONCLUSIONS: From a sub-Saharan Africa societal perspective QD regimen cannot be regarded as cost-effective, although there is substantial decision uncertainty. Findings from the economic evaluation are important for low- and middle-income countries (LMIC) to consider as they decide whether to adopt the new branded single tablet regimen. Generic-based ART could yield substantial budgetary saving to HIV programmes in LMIC.', u'/articles/5-2681/v1', ['Immunology, Microbiology & Infectious Diseases'], [u'Center for Evidence-Based Global Health, Minna, Nigeria', u'Centre for Applied Health Research and Delivery (WCAHRD), Division of Health Sciences, Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick, Coventry, UK', u'Centre for Evidence-based Health Care, Stellenbosch University, Cape Town, South Africa', u'Department of Public Health (IHCAR), Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden and Department of Infectious Diseases, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden', u'Department of Medicine and Centre for Infectious Diseases, Tygerberg Hospital, Stellenbosch University, Cape Town, South Africa', u'Pittsburgh Graduate School of Public Health, Pittsburgh, USA', u'Department of Epidemiology and International Health, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, USA']]
[u'Survival prognosis and variable selection: A case study for metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer patients', ['Sren Wengel Mogensen', 'Anne H. Petersen', 'Ann-Sophie Buchardt', 'Niels Richard Hansen'], u'16 Nov 2016', u'Survival prognosis is challenging, and accurate prediction of individual survival times is often very difficult. Better statistical methodology and more data can help improve the prognostic models, but it is important that methods and data usages are evaluated properly. The Prostate Cancer DREAM Challenge offered a framework for training and blinded validation of prognostic models using a large and rich dataset on patients diagnosed with metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer. Using the Prostate Cancer DREAM Challenge data we investigated and compared an array of methods combining imputation techniques of missing values for prognostic variables with tree-based and lasso-based variable selection and model fitting methods. The benchmark metric used was integrated AUC (iAUC), and all methods were benchmarked using cross-validation on the training data as well as via the blinded validation. We found that survival forests without prior variable selection achieved the best overall performance (cv-iAUC = 0.70, validation-iACU = 0.78), while a generalized additive model was best among those methods that used explicit prior variable selection (cv-iAUC = 0.69, validation-iACU = 0.76). Our findings largely concurred with previous results in terms of the choice of important prognostic variables, though we did not find the level of prostate specific antigen to have prognostic value given the other variables included in the data.', u'/articles/5-2680/v1', ['Oncology & Hematology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology', 'Urology, Gynecology & Obstetrics'], [u'Department of Mathematical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark']]
[u'Two-step feature selection for predicting survival time of patients with metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer', ['Motoki Shiga'], u'16 Nov 2016', u'Metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) is the major cause of death in prostate cancer patients. Even though some options for treatment of mCRPC have been developed, the most effective therapies remain unclear. Thus finding key patient clinical variables related with mCRPC is an important issue for understanding the disease progression mechanism of mCRPC and clinical decision making for these patients. The Prostate Cancer DREAM Challenge is a crowd-based competition to tackle this essential challenge using new large clinical datasets. This paper proposes an effective procedure for predicting global risks and survival times of these patients, aimed at sub-challenge 1a and 1b of the Prostate Cancer DREAM challenge. The procedure implements a two-step feature selection procedure, which first implements sparse feature selection for numerical clinical variables and statistical hypothesis testing of differences between survival curves caused by categorical clinical variables, and then implements a forward feature selection to narrow the list of informative features. Using Cox\u2019s proportional hazards model with these selected features, this method predicted global risk and survival time of patients using a linear model whose input is a median time computed from the hazard model. The challenge results demonstrated that the proposed procedure outperforms the state of the art model by correctly selecting more informative features on both the global risk prediction and the survival time prediction.', u'/articles/5-2678/v1', ['Oncology & Hematology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology', 'Urology, Gynecology & Obstetrics'], [u'Department of Electrical, Electronic and Computer Engineering, Gifu University, Gifu, Japan']]
[u'Heterogeneous ensembles for predicting survival of metastatic, castrate-resistant prostate cancer patients', ['Sebastian Polsterl', 'Pankaj Gupta', 'Lichao Wang', 'Sailesh Conjeti', 'Amin Katouzian', 'Nassir Navab'], u'16 Nov 2016', u'Ensemble methods have been successfully applied in a wide range of scenarios, including survival analysis. However, most ensemble models for survival analysis consist of models that all optimize the same loss function and do not fully utilize the diversity in available models. We propose heterogeneous survival ensembles that combine several survival models, each optimizing a different loss during training. We evaluated our proposed technique in the context of the Prostate Cancer DREAM Challenge, where the objective was to predict survival of patients with metastatic, castrate-resistant prostate cancer from patient records of four phase III clinical trials. Results demonstrate that a diverse set of survival models were preferred over a single model and that our heterogeneous ensemble of survival models outperformed all competing methods with respect to predicting the exact time of death in the Prostate Cancer DREAM Challenge.', u'/articles/5-2676/v1', ['Oncology & Hematology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology', 'Urology, Gynecology & Obstetrics'], [u'Computer Aided Medical Procedures, Technical University of Munich, Munich, Germany', u'Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, USA']]
[u'Using complex networks for refining survival prognosis in prostate cancer patient', ['Massimiliano Zanin'], u'16 Nov 2016', u'Complex network theory has been used, during the last decade, to understand the structures behind complex biological problems, yielding new knowledge in a large number of situations. Nevertheless, such knowledge has remained mostly qualitative. In this contribution, I show how information extracted from a network representation can be used in a quantitative way, to improve the score of a classification task. As a test bed, I consider a dataset corresponding to patients suffering from prostate cancer, and the task of successfully prognosing their survival. When information from a complex network representation is added on top of a simple classification model, the error is reduced from 27.9% to 23.8%. This confirms that network theory can be used to synthesize information that may not readily be accessible by standard data mining algorithms.', u'/articles/5-2675/v1', ['Oncology & Hematology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology', 'Urology, Gynecology & Obstetrics'], [u'Innaxis Foundation & Research Institute, Madrid, Spain', u'Department of Electrical Engineering, Faculty of Sciences and Technology, Universidade Nova de Lisboa, Caparica, Portugal']]
[u'A predictive model of overall survival in patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer', ['Mehrad Mahmoudian', 'Fatemeh Seyednasrollah', 'Liisa Koivu', 'Outi Hirvonen ', 'Sirkku Jyrkkio ', 'Laura L. Elo'], u'16 Nov 2016', u'Metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) is one of the most common cancers with a poor prognosis. To improve prognostic models of mCRPC, the Dialogue for Reverse Engineering Assessments and Methods (DREAM) Consortium organized a crowdsourced competition known as the Prostate Cancer DREAM Challenge. In the competition, data from four phase III clinical trials were utilized. A total of 1600 patients\u2019 clinical information across three of the trials was used to generate prognostic models, whereas one of the datasets (313 patients) was held out for blinded validation. As a performance baseline, a model presented in a recent study (so called Halabi model) was used to assess improvements of the new models. This paper presents the model developed by the team TYTDreamChallenge to predict survival risk scores for mCRPC patients at 12, 18, 24 and 30-months after trial enrollment based on clinical features of each patient, as well as an improvement of the model developed after the challenge. The TYTDreamChallenge model performed similarly as the gold-standard Halabi model, whereas the post-challenge model showed markedly improved performance. Accordingly, a main observation in this challenge was that the definition of the clinical features used plays a major role and replacing our original larger set of features with a small subset for training increased the performance in terms of integrated area under the ROC curve from 0.748 to 0.779.', u'/articles/5-2674/v1', ['Oncology & Hematology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology', 'Urology, Gynecology & Obstetrics'], [u'Turku Centre for Biotechnology, Turku, Finland', u'Department of Information Technology, University of Turku, Turku, Finland', u'Department of Oncology and Radiotherapy, University of Turku, Turku, Finland', u'Department of Clinical Oncology, University of Turku, Turku, Finland']]
[u'Predicting discontinuation of docetaxel treatment for metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) with random forest', ['Daniel Kristiyanto', 'Kevin E. Anderson', 'Ling-Hong Hung', 'Ka Yee Yeung'], u'16 Nov 2016', u'Prostate cancer is the most common cancer among men in developed countries. Androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) is the standard treatment for prostate cancer. However, approximately one third of all patients with metastatic disease treated with ADT develop resistance to ADT. This condition is called metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC). Patients who do not respond to hormone therapy are often treated with a chemotherapy drug called docetaxel.\r\nSub-challenge 2 of the Prostate Cancer DREAM Challenge aims to improve the prediction of whether a patient with mCRPC would discontinue docetaxel treatment due to adverse effects.\r\nSpecifically, a dataset containing three distinct clinical studies of patients with mCRPC treated with docetaxel was provided. We \xa0applied the k-nearest neighbor method for missing data imputation, the hill climbing algorithm and random forest importance for feature selection, and the random forest algorithm for classification. We also empirically studied the performance of many classification algorithms, including support vector machines and neural networks. Additionally, we found using random forest importance for feature selection provided slightly better results than the more computationally expensive method of hill climbing.', u'/articles/5-2673/v1', ['Oncology & Hematology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology', 'Urology, Gynecology & Obstetrics'], [u'Institute of Technology, University of Washington, Tacoma, USA']]
[u'Predicting survival time for metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer: An iterative imputation approach', ['Detian Deng', 'Yu Du', 'Zhicheng Ji', 'Karthik Rao', 'Zhenke Wu', 'Yuxin Zhu', 'R. Yates Coley'], u'16 Nov 2016', u"In this paper, we present our winning method for survival time prediction in the 2015 Prostate Cancer DREAM Challenge, a recent crowdsourced competition focused on risk and survival time predictions for patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC). We are interested in using a patient's covariates to predict his or her time until death after initiating standard therapy. We propose an iterative algorithm to multiply impute right-censored survival times and use ensemble learning methods to characterize the dependence of these imputed survival times on possibly many covariates. We show that by iterating over imputation and ensemble learning steps, we guide imputation with patient covariates and, subsequently, optimize the accuracy of survival time prediction. This method is generally applicable to time-to-event prediction problems in the presence of right-censoring. We demonstrate the proposed method's performance with training and validation results from the DREAM Challenge and compare its accuracy with existing methods.", u'/articles/5-2672/v1', ['Oncology & Hematology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology', 'Urology, Gynecology & Obstetrics'], [u'Department of Biostatistics, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, USA', u'School of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, USA']]
[u'Three general concepts to improve risk prediction: good data, wisdom of the crowd, recalibration', ['Ivan Kondofersky', 'Michael Laimighofer', 'Christoph Kurz', 'Norbert Krautenbacher', 'Julia F. Sollner', 'Philip Dargatz', 'Hagen Scherb', 'Donna P. Ankerst', 'Christiane Fuchs'], u'16 Nov 2016', u'In today\'s information age, the necessary means exist for clinical risk prediction to capitalize on a multitude of data sources, increasing the potential for greater accuracy and improved patient care. Towards this objective, the Prostate Cancer DREAM Challenge posted comprehensive information from three clinical trials recording survival for patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer treated with first-line docetaxel. A subset of an independent clinical trial was used for interim evaluation of model submissions, providing critical feedback to participating teams for tailoring their models to the desired target. Final submitted models were evaluated and ranked on the independent clinical trial. Our team, called "A Bavarian Dream", utilized many of the common statistical methods for data dimension reduction and summarization during the trial. Three general modeling principles emerged that were deemed helpful for building accurate risk prediction tools and ending up among the winning teams of both sub-challenges. These principles included: first, good data, encompassing the collection of important variables and imputation of missing data; second, wisdom of the crowd, extending beyond the usual model ensemble notion to the inclusion of experts on specific risk ranges; and third, recalibration, entailing transfer learning to the target source. In this study, we illustrate the application and impact of these principles applied to data from the Prostate Cancer DREAM Challenge.', u'/articles/5-2671/v1', ['Oncology & Hematology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology', 'Urology, Gynecology & Obstetrics'], [u'Institute of Computational Biology, Helmholtz Zentrum M\xfcnchen, German Research Center for Environmental Health, Neuherberg, Germany', u'Mathematical Modeling of Biological Systems, Center for Mathematics, Technical University of Munich, Garching, Germany', u'Institute of Health Economics and Health Care Management, Helmholtz Zentrum M\xfcnchen, German Research Center for Environmental Health, Neuherberg, Germany', u'Department of Hematology and Oncology, Johannes Wesling Klinikum Minden, Minden, Germany', u'University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, USA']]
[u'An ensemble-based Cox proportional hazards regression framework for predicting survival in metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) patients', ['Richard Meier', 'Stefan Graw', 'Joseph Usset', 'Rama Raghavan', 'Junqiang Dai', 'Prabhakar Chalise', 'Shellie Ellis', 'Brooke Fridley', 'Devin Koestler'], u'16 Nov 2016', u'From March through August 2015, nearly 60 teams from around the world participated in the Prostate Cancer Dream Challenge (PCDC). Participating teams were faced with the task of developing prediction models for patient survival and treatment discontinuation using baseline clinical variables collected on metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) patients in the comparator arm of four phase III clinical trials. In total, over 2,000 mCRPC patients treated with first-line docetaxel comprised the training and testing data sets used in this challenge. In this paper we describe: (a) the sub-challenges comprising the PCDC, (b) the statistical metrics used to benchmark prediction performance, (c) our analytical approach, and finally (d) our team\u2019s overall performance in this challenge. Specifically, we discuss our curated, ad-hoc, feature selection (CAFS) strategy for identifying clinically important risk-predictors, the ensemble-based Cox proportional hazards regression framework used in our final submission, and the adaptation of our modeling framework based on the results from the intermittent leaderboard rounds. Strong predictors of patient survival were successfully identified utilizing our model building approach. Several of the identified predictors were new features created by our team via strategically merging collections of weak predictors. In each of the three intermittent leaderboard rounds, our prediction models scored among the top four models across all participating teams and our final submission ranked 9th place overall with an integrated area under the curve (iAUC) of 0.7711 computed in an independent test set. While the prediction performance of teams placing between 2nd- 10th (iAUC: 0.7710-0.7789) was better than the current gold-standard prediction model for prostate cancer survival, the top-performing team, FIMM-UTU significantly outperformed all other contestants with an iAUC of 0.7915.\xa0 In summary, our ensemble-based Cox regression framework with CAFS resulted in strong overall performance for predicting prostate cancer survival and represents a promising approach for future prediction problems.', u'/articles/5-2677/v1', ['Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology'], [u'Department of Biostatistic, University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, KS, USA', u'Department of Health Policy and Management, University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, KS, USA']]
