[u'A cross-package Bioconductor workflow for analysing methylation array data', ['Jovana Maksimovic', 'Belinda Phipson', 'Alicia Oshlack'], u'08 Jun 2016', u'Methylation in the human genome is known to be associated with development and disease. The Illumina Infinium methylation arrays are by far the most common way to interrogate methylation across the human genome. This paper provides a Bioconductor workflow using multiple packages for the analysis of methylation array data. Specifically, we demonstrate the steps involved in a typical differential methylation analysis pipeline including: quality control, filtering, normalization, data exploration and statistical testing for probe-wise differential methylation. We further outline other analyses such as differential methylation of regions, differential variability analysis, estimating cell type composition and gene ontology testing. Finally, we provide some examples of how to visualise methylation array data.', u'/articles/5-1281/v1', ['Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology'], [u'Murdoch Childrens Research Institute, Royal Children\u2019s Hospital, Melbourne, Australia', u'School of BioSciences, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia', u'School of Physics, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia']]
[u'DNA barcoding of Clarias gariepinus, Coptodon zillii and Sarotherodon melanotheron from Southwestern Nigeria', ['Mofolusho O. Falade', 'Anthony J. Opene', 'Otarigho Benson'], u'08 Jun 2016', u'DNA barcoding has been adopted as a gold standard rapid, precise and unifying identification system for animal species and provides a database of genetic sequences that can be used as a tool for universal species identification. In this study, we employed mitochondrial genes 16S rRNA (16S) and cytochrome oxidase subunit I (COI) for the identification of some Nigerian freshwater catfish and Tilapia species. Approximately 655 bp were amplified from the 5\u2032 region of the mitochondrial cytochrome C oxidase subunit I (COI) gene whereas 570 bp were amplified for the 16S rRNA gene. Nucleotide divergences among sequences were estimated based on Kimura 2-parameter distances and the genetic relationships were assessed by constructing phylogenetic trees using the neighbour-joining (NJ) and maximum likelihood (ML) methods. Analyses of consensus barcode sequences for each species, and alignment of individual sequences from within a given species revealed highly consistent barcodes (99% similarity on average), which could be compared with deposited sequences in public databases. The nucleotide distance between species belonging to different genera based on COI ranged from 0.17% between Sarotherodon melanotheron and Coptodon zillii to 0.49% between Clarias gariepinus and C. zillii, indicating that S. melanotheron and C. zillii are closely related. Based on the data obtained, the utility of COI gene was confirmed in accurate identification of three fish species from Southwest Nigeria.', u'/articles/5-1268/v1', ['Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology', 'Plant Biology, Ecology & Environmental Sciences'], [u'Cellular Parasitology Programme, Cell Biology and Genetics Unit, Department of Zoology, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria', u'Department of Biological Science, Edo University, Iyamho, Edo State, Nigeria']]
