[u'Case Report: Congenital left ventricular diverticulum: a pediatric case report', ['Myriam Jrad', 'Meriem Affes', 'Salma Behi', 'Amine Laabidi', 'Habiba Mizouni'], u'03 Nov 2016', u'Congenital left ventricular diverticulum is a rare cardiac abnormality consisting of a localized outpouching from the free wall of the cardiac chamber. It is usually asymptomatic. However, complications such as infective endocarditis, arrhythmias, and embolism may occur. Medical ultrasound, echocardiography, CT angiography, MRI and invasive ventriculography are diagnostic tools used to identify congenital left ventricular diverticulum. Surgical resection is the treatment of choice in symptomatic patients, whereas the management of asymptomatic patients often represents a therapeutic dilemma. We report the case of a symptomatic left ventricular diverticulum on a 3-day-old female with Cantrell\u2019s syndrome treated surgically. Postoperative course was uneventful. The patient was discharged with a good clinical condition. The prognosis of this malformation is poor if not diagnosed in the perinatal period. A diagnosis can be suspected with echocardiography; however, a CT scan allows a complete study of the problem. The treatment is always surgical with a good postoperative prognosis.', u'/articles/5-2628/v1', ['Cardiopulmonary & Vascular Disorders'], [u'Department of Radiology, La Rabta Hospital, Tunis, Tunisia']]
[u'The TrialsTracker: Automated ongoing monitoring of failure to share clinical trial results by all major companies and research institutions', ['Anna Powell-Smith', 'Ben Goldacre'], u'03 Nov 2016', u'Background: Failure to publish trial results is a prevalent ethical breach with a negative impact on patient care. Audit is an important tool for quality improvement. We set out to produce an online resource that automatically identifies the sponsors with the best and worst record for failing to share trial results. Methods: A tool was produced that identifies all completed trials from clinicaltrials.gov, searches for results in the clinicaltrials.gov registry and on PubMed, and presents summary statistics for each sponsor online. Results: The TrialsTracker tool is now available. Results are consistent with previous publication bias cohort studies using manual searches. The prevalence of missing studies is presented for various classes of sponsor. All code and data is shared. Discussion: We have designed, built, and launched an easily accessible online service, the TrialsTracker, that identifies sponsors who have failed in their duty to make results of clinical trials available, and which can be maintained at low cost. Sponsors who wish to improve their performance metrics in this tool can do so by publishing the results of their trials.', u'/articles/5-2629/v1', ['Publishing, Education & Communication'], [u'Evidence-Based Medicine Data Lab, Centre for Evidence-Based Medicine, Nuffield Department of Primary Health Care Sciences, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK']]
[u'Complete genome of Pieris rapae, a resilient alien, a cabbage pest, and a source of anti-cancer proteins', ['Jinhui Shen', 'Qian Cong', 'Lisa N. Kinch', 'Dominika Borek', 'Zbyszek Otwinowski', 'Nick V. Grishin'], u'03 Nov 2016', u'The Small Cabbage White (Pieris rapae) is originally a Eurasian butterfly. Being accidentally introduced into North America, Australia, and New Zealand a century or more ago, it spread throughout the continents and rapidly established as one of the most abundant butterfly species. Although it is a serious pest of cabbage and other mustard family plants with its caterpillars reducing crops to stems, it is also a source of pierisin, a protein unique to the Whites that shows cytotoxicity to cancer cells. To better understand the unusual biology of this omnipresent agriculturally and medically important butterfly, we sequenced and annotated the complete genome from USA specimens. At 246 Mbp, it is among the smallest Lepidoptera genomes reported to date. While 1.5% positions in the genome are heterozygous, they are distributed highly non-randomly along the scaffolds, and nearly 20% of longer than 1000 base-pair segments are SNP-free (median length: 38000 bp). Computational simulations of population evolutionary history suggest that American populations started from a very small number of introduced individuals, possibly a single fertilized female, which is in agreement with historical literature. Comparison to other Lepidoptera genomes reveals several unique families of proteins that may contribute to the unusual resilience of Pieris. The nitrile-specifier proteins divert the plant defense chemicals to non-toxic products. The apoptosis-inducing pierisins could offer a defense mechanism against parasitic wasps. While only two pierisins from Pieris rapae were characterized before, the genome sequence revealed eight, offering additional candidates as anti-cancer drugs. The reference genome we obtained lays the foundation for future studies of the Cabbage White and other Pieridae species.', u'/articles/5-2631/v1', ['Oncology & Hematology', 'Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology', 'Physiology, Pharmacology & Drug Discovery'], [u'Departments of Biophysics and Biochemistry, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, USA', u'Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, USA']]
