[u'FAIRness in scientific publishing', ['Philippa C. Matthews'], u'05 Dec 2016', u'Major changes are afoot in the world of academic publishing, exemplified by innovations in publishing platforms, new approaches to metrics, improvements in our approach to peer review, and a focus on developing and encouraging open access to scientific literature and data. The FAIR acronym recommends that authors and publishers should aim to make their output Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Reusable. In this opinion article, I explore the parallel view that we should take a collective stance on making the dissemination of scientific data fair in the conventional sense, by being mindful of equity and justice for patients, clinicians, academics, publishers, funders and academic institutions. The views I represent are founded on oral and written dialogue with clinicians, academics and the publishing industry. Further progress is needed to improve collaboration and dialogue between these groups, to reduce misinterpretation of metrics, to reduce inequity that arises as a consequence of geographic setting, to improve economic sustainability, and to broaden the spectrum, scope, and diversity of scientific publication.', u'/articles/5-2816/v1', ['Publishing, Education & Communication'], [u'Nuffield Department of Medicine, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK', u'Harris Manchester College, Oxford, UK', u'Department of Infectious Diseases and Microbiology, Oxford University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford, UK']]
[u'CanVar: A resource for sharing germline variation in cancer patients', ['Daniel Chubb', 'Peter Broderick', 'Sara E. Dobbins', 'Richard S. Houlston'], u'05 Dec 2016', u'The advent of high-throughput sequencing has accelerated our ability to discover genes predisposing to disease and is transforming clinical genomic sequencing. In both contexts knowledge of the spectrum and frequency of genetic variation in the general population and in disease cohorts is vital to the interpretation of sequencing data. While population level data is becoming increasingly available from publicly accessible sources, as exemplified by The Exome Aggregation Consortium (ExAC), the availability of large-scale disease-specific frequency information is limited. These data are of particular importance to contextualise findings from clinical mutation screens and small gene discovery projects. This is especially true for cancer, which is typified by a number of hereditary predisposition syndromes.\xa0 Although mutation frequencies in tumours are available from resources such as Cosmic and The Cancer Genome Atlas, a similar facility for germline variation is lacking. Here we present the Cancer Variation Resource (CanVar) an online database which has been developed using the ExAC framework to provide open access to germline variant frequency data from the sequenced exomes of cancer patients. In its first release, CanVar catalogues the exomes of 1,006 familial early-onset colorectal cancer (CRC) patients sequenced at The Institute of Cancer Research. It is anticipated that CanVar will host data for additional cancers, providing a resource for others studying cancer predisposition and an example of how the research community can utilise the ExAC framework to share sequencing data.', u'/articles/5-2813/v1', ['Oncology & Hematology', 'Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology', 'Urology, Gynecology & Obstetrics'], [u'Division of Genetics and Epidemiology, The Institute of Cancer Research, London, UK', u'Division of Molecular Pathology, The Institute of Cancer Research, London, UK']]
[u'COP-eration for global food security', ['Erick de la Barrera'], u'05 Dec 2016', u'Mexico is hosting the 13th Conference of the Parts (COP-13) on the Convention on Biological Diversity. Participants will have another opportunity to "integrate biodiversity for wellbeing." Considering that food production is a major driver for the loss of biological diversity, despite the fact that ample genetic reservoirs are crucial for the persistence of agriculture in a changing world, food can be a conduit for bringing biodiversity into people\'s minds and government agendas. If this generation is going to "live in harmony with nature," as the Aichi Biodiversity Targets indicate, such an integration needs to be developed between the agricultural and environmental sectors throughout the world, especially as an increasingly urban civilization severs its cultural connections to food origin.', u'/articles/5-2814/v1', ['Plant Biology, Ecology & Environmental Sciences'], [u'Instituto de Investigaciones en Ecosistemas y Sustentabilidad, Universidad Nacional Aut\xf3noma de M\xe9xico, Morelia, Michoac\xe1n 58190, Mexico']]
