[u'Stroke rehabilitation research needs to be different to make a difference', ['Cathy M. Stinear'], u'22 Jun 2016', u'Stroke continues to be a major cause of adult disability. In contrast to progress in stroke prevention and acute medical management, there have been no major breakthroughs in rehabilitation therapies. Most stroke rehabilitation trials are conducted with patients at the chronic stage of recovery and this limits their translation to clinical practice. Encouragingly, several multi-centre rehabilitation trials, conducted during the first few weeks after stroke, have recently been reported; however, all were negative. There is a renewed focus on improving the quality of stroke rehabilitation research through greater harmonisation and standardisation of terminology, trial design, measures, and reporting. However, there is also a need for more pragmatic trials to test interventions in a way that assists their translation to clinical practice. Novel interventions with a strong mechanistic rationale need to be tested in both explanatory and pragmatic trials if we are to make a meaningful difference to stroke rehabilitation practice and outcomes.', u'/articles/5-1467/v1', ['Public Health & Epidemiology', 'Neuroscience, Neurology & Psychiatry'], [u'Department of Medicine, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand']]
[u'Recent insights into the molecular mechanisms of the NLRP3 inflammasome activation', ['Tomasz Prochnicki', 'Matthew S. Mangan', 'Eicke Latz'], u'22 Jun 2016', u'Inflammasomes are high-molecular-weight protein complexes that are formed in the cytosolic compartment in response to danger- or pathogen-associated molecular patterns. These complexes enable activation of an inflammatory protease caspase-1, leading to a cell death process called pyroptosis and to proteolytic cleavage and release of pro-inflammatory cytokines interleukin (IL)-1\u03b2 and IL-18. Along with caspase-1, inflammasome components include an adaptor protein, ASC, and a sensor protein, which triggers the inflammasome assembly in response to a danger signal. The inflammasome sensor proteins are pattern recognition receptors belonging either to the NOD-like receptor (NLR) or to the AIM2-like receptor family. While the molecular agonists that induce inflammasome formation by AIM2 and by several other NLRs have been identified, it is not well understood how the NLR family member NLRP3 is activated. Given that NLRP3 activation is relevant to a range of human pathological conditions, significant attempts are being made to elucidate the molecular mechanism of this process. In this review, we summarize the current knowledge on the molecular events that lead to activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome in response to a range of K+ efflux-inducing danger signals. We also comment on the reported involvement of cytosolic Ca2+ fluxes on NLRP3 activation. We outline the recent advances in research on the physiological and pharmacological mechanisms of regulation of NLRP3 responses, and we point to several open questions regarding the current model of NLRP3 activation.', u'/articles/5-1469/v1', ['Immunology, Microbiology & Infectious Diseases', 'Oncology & Hematology', 'Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology', 'Physiology, Pharmacology & Drug Discovery'], [u'Institute of Innate Immunity, University Hospital, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany', u'Department of Infectious Diseases and Immunology, University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, MA, USA', u'German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Bonn, Germany', u'Centre of Molecular Inflammation Research, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Trondheim, Norway']]
[u'Case Report: Subacute onset of the motor-sensory axonal neuropathy variant of Gullain-Barr\xe9 syndrome after epidural anesthesia', ['Marie-Louise Kulas Sborg', 'Jacob Rosenberg', 'Jakob Burcharth'], u'22 Jun 2016', u'Guillain-Barr\xe9 syndrome (GBS) is an acute ascending peripheral neuropathy, caused by autoimmune damage of the peripheral nerves. GBS can be divided into three subtypes: acute inflammatory demyelinating neuropathy, acute motor axonal neuropathy, and the more rare type, acute motor and sensory axonal neuropathy (AMSAN). Reports of AMSAN with onset after epidural anesthesia and spinal surgery are extremely rare, and the linkage between development of GBS and neuroaxial anesthesia remains conclusively unconfirmed. We present a case in which the patient developed subacute motor and predominantly sensory neuropathy following epidural blockade. The case emphasizes the need of including AMSAN in differential diagnostic considerations to changes in motor and sensory function following epidural anesthesia, allowing accelerated rehabilitation and relevant alleviating therapy.', u'/articles/5-1462/v1', ['Immunology, Microbiology & Infectious Diseases', 'Neuroscience, Neurology & Psychiatry', 'Critical Care & Emergency Medicine', 'Physiology, Pharmacology & Drug Discovery'], [u'Center for Perioperative Optimization (CPO), Gastro unit, Department of Surgery, Herlev Hospital, University of Copenhagen, Herlev, Denmark', u'Department of Surgery, Zealand University Hospital, K\xf8ge, Denmark']]
[u'Chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy: an update on the current understanding', ['James Addington', 'Miriam Freimer'], u'22 Jun 2016', u'Chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy is a common side effect of selected chemotherapeutic agents. Previous work has suggested that patients often under report the symptoms of chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy and physicians fail to recognize the presence of such symptoms in a timely fashion. The precise pathophysiology that underlies chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy, in both the acute and the chronic phase, remains complex and appears to be medication specific. Recent work has begun to demonstrate and further clarify potential pathophysiological processes that predispose and, ultimately, lead to the development of chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy. There is increasing evidence that the pathway to neuropathy varies with each agent. With a clearer understanding of how these agents affect the peripheral nervous system, more targeted treatments can be developed in order to optimize treatment and prevent long-term side effects.', u'/articles/5-1466/v1', ['Eye Disorders & ENT', 'Oncology & Hematology', 'Neuroscience, Neurology & Psychiatry', 'Physiology, Pharmacology & Drug Discovery'], [u'Department of Neurology, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA']]
[u'Super resolution microscopy is poised to reveal new insights into the formation and maturation of dendritic spines', ['Cristina M. Robinson', 'Mikin R. Patel', 'Donna J. Webb'], u'22 Jun 2016', u'Dendritic spines and synapses are critical for neuronal communication, and they are perturbed in many neurological disorders; however, the study of these structures in living cells has been hindered by their small size. Super resolution microscopy, unlike conventional light microscopy, is diffraction unlimited and thus is well suited for imaging small structures, such as dendritic spines and synapses. Super resolution microscopy has already revealed important new information about spine and synapse morphology, actin remodeling, and nanodomain composition in both healthy cells and diseased states. In this review, we highlight the advancements in probes that make super resolution more amenable to live-cell imaging of spines and synapses. We also discuss recent data obtained by super resolution microscopy that has advanced our knowledge of dendritic spine and synapse structure, organization, and dynamics in both healthy and diseased contexts. Finally, we propose a series of critical questions for understanding spine and synapse formation and maturation that super resolution microscopy is poised to answer.', u'/articles/5-1468/v1', ['Neuroscience, Neurology & Psychiatry', 'Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee, USA', u'Vanderbilt Kennedy Center for Research on Human Development, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee, USA', u'Department of Cancer Biology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee, USA']]
