[u'Clonal selection versus clonal cooperation: the integrated perception of immune objects', ['Serge Nataf'], u'05 Sep 2016', u'Analogies between the immune and nervous systems were first envisioned by the immunologist Niels Jerne who introduced the concepts of antigen "recognition" and immune "memory". However, since then, it appears that only the cognitive immunology paradigm proposed by Irun Cohen, attempted to further theorize the immune system functions through the prism of neurosciences. The present paper is aimed at revisiting this analogy-based reasoning. In particular, a parallel is drawn between the brain pathways of visual perception and the processes allowing the global perception of an "immune object". Thus, in the visual system, distinct features of a visual object (shape, color, motion) are perceived separately by distinct neuronal populations during a primary perception task. The output signals generated during this first step instruct then an integrated perception task performed by other neuronal networks. Such a higher order perception step is by essence a cooperative task that is mandatory for the global perception of visual objects. Based on a re-interpretation of recent experimental data, it is suggested that similar general principles drive the integrated perception of immune objects in secondary lymphoid organs (SLOs). In this scheme, the four main categories of signals characterizing an immune object (antigenic, contextual, temporal and localization signals) are first perceived separately by distinct networks of immunocompetent cells.\xa0 Then, in a multitude of SLO niches, the output signals generated during this primary perception step are integrated by TH-cells at the single cell level. This process eventually generates a multitude of T-cell and B-cell clones that perform, at the scale of SLOs, an integrated perception of immune objects. Overall, this new framework proposes that integrated immune perception and, consequently, integrated immune responses, rely essentially on clonal cooperation rather than clonal selection.', u'/articles/5-2226/v1', ['Immunology, Microbiology & Infectious Diseases'], [u'Bank of Tissues and Cells, Lyon University Hospital (Hospices Civils de Lyon), CarMeN Laboratory, INSERM 1060, INRA 1397, INSA Lyon, Universit\xe9 Claude Bernard Lyon-1, University Lyon-1, Lyon, France']]
