[u'Identification of genetic pathways driving Ebola virus disease in humans and targets for therapeutic intervention', ['Daniel A. Achinko', 'Anton Dormer', 'Mahesh Narayanan', 'Elton F. Norman', 'Muneer Abbas'], u'02 Dec 2016', u'Introduction: LCK gene, also known as lymphocyte-specific proto-oncogene, is expressed in lymphocytes, and associated with coordinated expression of MHC class I and II in response to physiological stimuli, mediated through a combined interaction of promoters, suppressors, and enhancers. Differential usage of LCK promoters, transcribes dysfunctional transcript variants leading to leukemogenesis and non-induction of MHC class I gene variants. Viruses use C-type lectins, like CD209, to penetrate the cell, and inhibit Pattern Recognition Receptors (PRR), hence evading immune destruction. Given that Ebolavirus (EBOV) disease burden could result from a dysfunctional LCK pathway, identification of the genetic pathway leading to proper immune induction is a major priority. Methods: Data for EBOV related virus samples were obtained from Gene Expression Omnibus database and RMEAN information per gene per sample were entered into a table of values. R software v.3.3.1 was used to process differential expression patterns across samples for LCK, CD209 and immune-related genes. Principal component analysis (PCA) using ggbiplot v.0.55 was used to explain the variance across samples. Results: Data analyses identified three viral clusters based on transmission patterns as follows: LCK-CD209 dependent, LCK-dependent specific to EBOV, and CD209 dependent. Compared to HLA class II gene variants, HLA class I (A, B and C) variants were <2 fold expressed, especially for EBOV samples. PCA analyses classified TYRO3, TBK1 and LCK genes independent of the data, leading to identification of a possible pathway involving LCK, IL2, PI3k, TBK1, TYRO3 and MYB genes with downstream induction of immune T-cells. Discussion: This is the first study undertaken to understand the non-functional immune pathway, leading to EBOV disease pathogenesis and high fatality rates. Our lab currently exploits, through cutting edge genetic technology to understand the interplay of identified genes required for proper immune induction. This will guide antiviral therapy and possible markers for viral disease identification during outbreaks.', u'/articles/5-2810/v1', ['Immunology, Microbiology & Infectious Diseases'], [u'PepVax, Inc., Bethesda, USA', u'Computational Biology Branch, NCBI, Bethesda, USA', u'National Human Genome Center (NHGC), Howard University, Washington, USA', u'Immage Biotherapeutics Corp, Philadelphia, USA', u'Microbiology Department, College of Medicine, Howard University, Washington, D.C., USA']]
[u'Low-cost, rapidly-developed, 3D printed in vitro corpus callosum model for mucopolysaccharidosis type I', ['Anthony Tabet', 'Matthew Gardner', 'Sebastian Swanson', 'Sydney Crump', 'Austin McMeekin', 'Diana Gong', 'Rebecca Tabet', 'Benjamin Hacker', 'Igor Nestrasil'], u'02 Dec 2016', u'The rising prevalence of high throughput screening and the general inability of (1) two dimensional (2D) cell culture and (2) in vitro release studies to predict in vivo neurobiological and pharmacokinetic responses in humans has led to greater interest in more realistic three dimensional (3D) benchtop platforms. Advantages of 3D human cell culture over its 2D analogue, or even animal models, include taking the effects of microgeometry and long-range topological features into consideration. In the era of personalized medicine, it has become increasingly valuable to screen candidate molecules and synergistic therapeutics at a patient-specific level, in particular for diseases that manifest in highly variable ways. The lack of established standards and the relatively arbitrary choice of probing conditions has limited in vitro drug release to a largely qualitative assessment as opposed to a predictive, quantitative measure of pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics in tissue. Here we report the methods used in the rapid, low-cost development of a 3D model of a mucopolysaccharidosis type I patient\u2019s corpus callosum, which may be used for cell culture and drug release. The CAD model is developed from in vivo brain MRI tracing of the corpus callosum using open-source software, printed with poly (lactic-acid) on a Makerbot Replicator 5X, UV-sterilized, and coated with poly (lysine) for cellular adhesion. Adaptations of material and 3D printer for expanded applications are also discussed.', u'/articles/5-2811/v1', ['Neuroscience, Neurology & Psychiatry'], [u'CoCreateX, Inc., St. Paul, USA', u'Fenxlow Technology Institute, Minneapolis, USA', u'Department of Pediatrics, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, USA']]
