[u'The GenABEL Project for statistical genomics', ['Lennart C. Karssen', 'Cornelia M. van Duijn', 'Yurii S. Aulchenko'], u'19 May 2016', u'Development of free/libre open source software is usually done by a community of people with an interest in the tool. For scientific software, however, this is less often the case. Most scientific software is written by only a few authors, often a student working on a thesis. Once the paper describing the tool has been published, the tool is no longer developed further and is left to its own device. Here we describe the broad, multidisciplinary community we formed around a set of tools for statistical genomics. The GenABEL project for statistical omics actively promotes open interdisciplinary development of statistical methodology and its implementation in efficient and user-friendly software under an open source licence. The software tools developed withing the project collectively make up the GenABEL suite, which currently consists of eleven tools. The open framework of the project actively encourages involvement of the community in all stages, from formulation of methodological ideas to application of software to specific data sets. A web forum is used to channel user questions and discussions, further promoting the use of the GenABEL suite. Developer discussions take place on a dedicated mailing list, and development is further supported by robust development practices including use of public version control, code review and continuous integration. Use of this open science model attracts contributions from users and developers outside the \u201ccore team\u201d, facilitating agile statistical omics methodology development and fast dissemination.', u'/articles/5-914/v1', ['Public Health & Epidemiology', 'Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology'], [u'PolyOmica, Groningen, 9722 HC, Netherlands', u'Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, 3000 CA, Netherlands', u'Institute of Cytology and Genetics, Siberian Division of the Russian Academy of Sciences, Novosibirsk, 630090, Russian Federation', u'Novosibirsk State University, Novosibirsk, 630090, Russian Federation', u'Centre for Global Health Research, Usher Institute of Population Health Sciences and Informatics, University of Edinburgh, Teviot Place, Edinburgh, EH8 9AG, UK']]
[u'Recent advances in microscopic techniques for visualizing leukocytes in vivo', ['Rohit Jain', 'Shweta Tikoo', 'Wolfgang Weninger'], u'19 May 2016', u'Leukocytes are inherently motile and interactive cells. Recent advances in intravital microscopy approaches have enabled a new vista of their behavior within intact tissues in real time. This brief review summarizes the developments enabling the tracking of immune responses in vivo.', u'/articles/5-915/v1', ['Immunology, Microbiology & Infectious Diseases', 'Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology'], [u'Immune Imaging Program, The Centenary Institute, University of Sydney, Newtown, NSW 2042, Australia', u'Discipline of Dermatology, Sydney Medical School, University of Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia', u'Department of Dermatology, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Camperdown, NSW 2050, Australia']]
[u'The potential of plants as a system for the development and production of human biologics', ['Qiang Chen', 'Keith R. Davis'], u'19 May 2016', u'The growing promise of plant-made biologics is highlighted by the success story of ZMapp\u2122 as a potentially life-saving drug during the Ebola outbreak of 2014-2016. Current plant expression platforms offer features beyond the traditional advantages of low cost, high scalability, increased safety, and eukaryotic protein modification. Novel transient expression vectors have been developed that allow the production of vaccines and therapeutics at unprecedented speed to control potential pandemics or bioterrorism attacks. Plant-host engineering provides a method for producing proteins with unique and uniform mammalian post-translational modifications, providing opportunities to develop biologics with increased efficacy relative to their mammalian cell-produced counterparts. Recent demonstrations that plant-made proteins can function as biocontrol agents of foodborne pathogens further exemplify the potential utility of plant-based protein production. However, resolving the technical and regulatory challenges of commercial-scale production, garnering acceptance from large pharmaceutical companies, and obtaining U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval for several major classes of biologics are essential steps to fulfilling the untapped potential of this technology.', u'/articles/5-912/v1', ['Immunology, Microbiology & Infectious Diseases', 'Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology', 'Plant Biology, Ecology & Environmental Sciences', 'Physiology, Pharmacology & Drug Discovery'], [u'Biodesign Institute and School of Life Sciences, Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ, USA', u'The Johnson Center for Innovation and Translational Research, Indiana University, Bloomington, IN, USA']]
[u'Hypnotic drug risks of mortality, infection, depression, and cancer: but lack of benefit', ['Daniel F. Kripke'], u'19 May 2016', u'This is a review of hypnotic drug risks and benefits, reassessing and updating advice presented to the Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration (United States FDA). Almost every month, new information appears about the risks of hypnotics (sleeping pills). This review includes new information on the growing USA overdose epidemic, eight new epidemiologic studies of hypnotics\u2019 mortality not available for previous compilations, and new emphasis on risks of short-term hypnotic prescription. The most important risks of hypnotics include excess mortality, especially overdose deaths, quiet deaths at night, infections, cancer, depression and suicide, automobile crashes, falls, and other accidents, and hypnotic-withdrawal insomnia. The short-term use of one-two prescriptions is associated with greater risk per dose than long-term use. Hypnotics are usually prescribed without approved indication, most often with specific contraindications, but even when indicated, there is little or no benefit. The recommended doses objectively increase sleep little if at all, daytime performance is often made worse, not better, and the lack of general health benefits is commonly misrepresented in advertising. Treatments such as the cognitive behavioral treatment of insomnia and bright light treatment of circadian rhythm disorders might offer safer and more effective alternative approaches to insomnia.', u'/articles/5-918/v1', ['Neuroscience, Neurology & Psychiatry', 'Physiology, Pharmacology & Drug Discovery'], [u'University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA, 92037-2226, USA']]
[u'Is erythropoietin a worthy candidate for traumatic brain injury or are we heading the wrong way?', ['Giovanni Grasso', 'Concetta Alafaci', 'Pietro Ghezzi'], u'19 May 2016', u'Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a leading cause of death and disability in the modern society. Although primary prevention is the only strategy that can counteract the primary brain damage, numerous preclinical studies have been accumulated in order to find therapeutic strategies against the secondary damage. In this scenario erythropoietin (EPO) has been shown to be a promising candidate as neuroprotective agent. A recent clinical trial, however, has shown that EPO has not an overall effect on outcomes following TBI thus renewing old concerns. \xa0However, the results of a prespecified sensitivity analysis indicate that the effect of EPO on mortality remains still unclear.\r\nIn the light of these observations, further investigations are needed to resolve doubts on EPO effectiveness in order to provide a more solid base for tailoring conclusive clinical trials.', u'/articles/5-911/v1', ['Neuroscience, Neurology & Psychiatry', 'Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology', 'Physiology, Pharmacology & Drug Discovery'], [u'Section of Neurosurgery, Department of Experimental Biomedicine and Clinical Neurosciences (BIONEC), University of Palermo, Palermo, 90100, Italy', u'Department of Neurosurgery, University of Messina, Messina, 98100, Italy', u'Brighton and Sussex Medical School, Falmer, BN1 9PX, UK']]
