[u'Evaluation of recombinant monoclonal antibody SVmab1 binding to NaV1.7 target sequences and block of human NaV1.7 currents', ['Dong Liu', 'Mandy Tseng', 'Linda F. Epstein', 'Lydia Green', 'Brian Chan', 'Brian Soriano', 'Desiree Lim', 'Oscar Pan', 'Christopher M. Murawsky', 'Chadwick T. King', 'Bryan D. Moyer'], u'25 Nov 2016', u'Identification of small and large molecule pain therapeutics that target the genetically validated voltage-gated sodium channel NaV1.7 is a challenging endeavor under vigorous pursuit. The monoclonal antibody SVmab1 was recently published to bind the NaV1.7 DII voltage sensor domain and block human NaV1.7 sodium currents in heterologous cells. We produced purified SVmab1 protein based on publically available sequence information, and evaluated its activity in a battery of binding and functional assays. Herein, we report that our recombinant SVmAb1 does not bind peptide immunogen or purified NaV1.7 DII voltage sensor domain via ELISA, and does not bind NaV1.7 in live HEK293, U-2 OS, and CHO-K1 cells via FACS. Whole cell manual patch clamp electrophysiology protocols interrogating diverse NaV1.7 gating states in HEK293 cells, revealed that recombinant SVmab1 does not block NaV1.7 currents to an extent greater than observed with an isotype matched control antibody. Collectively, our results show that recombinant SVmab1 monoclonal antibody does not bind NaV1.7 target sequences or specifically inhibit NaV1.7 current.', u'/articles/5-2764/v1', ['Immunology, Microbiology & Infectious Diseases'], [u'Neuroscience, Amgen Inc., Thousand Oaks, USA', u'Amgen British Columbia, Burnaby, Canada', u'Molecular Engineering, Amgen Inc., Cambridge, USA', u'Discovery Attribute Sciences, Amgen Inc., Thousand Oaks, USA']]
[u'Divergent pattern of genomic variation in Plasmodium falciparum and P. vivax', ['Preeti Goel', 'Gajinder Pal Singh'], u'25 Nov 2016', u'The two main species causing malaria in humans, Plasmodium falciparum and P. vivax, differ significantly from each other in their evolutionary response to common drugs, but the reasons for this are not clear. Here we utilized the recently available large-scale genome sequencing data from these parasites and compared the pattern of single nucleotide polymorphisms, which may be related to these differences. We found that there was a five-fold higher preference for AT nucleotides compared to GC nucleotides at synonymous single nucleotide polymorphism sites in P. vivax. The preference for AT nucleotides was also present at non-synonymous sites, which lead to amino acid changes favouring those with codons of higher AT content. The substitution bias was also present at low and moderately conserved amino acid positions, but not at highly conserved positions. No marked bias was found at synonymous and non-synonymous sites in P. falciparum. The difference in the substitution bias between P. falciparum and P. vivax found in the present study may possibly contribute to their divergent evolutionary response to similar drug pressures.', u'/articles/5-2763/v1', ['Immunology, Microbiology & Infectious Diseases', 'Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology'], [u'Molecular Medicine Group, International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology (ICGEB), New Delhi, India']]
[u'Optimal threshold estimation for binary classifiers using game theory', ['Ignacio Enrique Sanchez'], u'25 Nov 2016', u'Many bioinformatics algorithms can be understood as binary classifiers. They are usually trained by maximizing the area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve. On the other hand, choosing the best threshold for practical use is a complex task, due to uncertain and context-dependent skews in the abundance of positives in nature and in the yields/costs for correct/incorrect classification. We argue that considering a classifier as a player in a zero-sum game allows us to use the minimax principle from game theory to determine the optimal operating point. The proposed classifier threshold corresponds to the intersection between the ROC curve and the descending diagonal in ROC space and yields a minimax accuracy of 1-FPR. Our proposal can be readily implemented in practice, and reveals that the empirical condition for threshold estimation of \u201cspecificity equals sensitivity\u201d maximizes robustness against uncertainties in the abundance of positives in nature and classification costs.', u'/articles/5-2762/v1', ['Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology'], [u'Protein Physiology Laboratory, University of Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, Argentina']]
[u'Early embryo mortality in natural human reproduction: What the data say', ['Gavin E. Jarvis'], u'25 Nov 2016', u'It is generally accepted that natural human embryo mortality during pregnancy is high \u2013 losses of 70% and higher from fertilisation to birth are frequently claimed. The first external sign of pregnancy occurs two weeks after fertilisation with a missed menstrual period. Establishing the fate of embryos before this is challenging, and hampered by a lack of data on the efficiency of fertilisation under natural conditions. Four distinct sources are cited to justify quantitative claims regarding embryo loss: (i) a hypothesis published by Roberts & Lowe in The Lancet \xa0is widely cited but has no quantitative value; (ii) life table analyses give consistent assessments of clinical pregnancy loss, but cannot illuminate losses at earlier stages of development; (iii) studies that measure human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG) reveal losses in the second week of development and beyond, but not before; and (iv) the classic studies of Hertig and Rock offer the only direct insight into the fate of human embryos from fertilisation under natural conditions. Re-examination of Hertig\u2019s data demonstrates that his estimates for fertilisation rate and early embryo loss are highly imprecise and casts doubt on the validity of his numerical analysis. A recent re-analysis of hCG study data suggests that approximately 40-60% of embryos may be lost between fertilisation and birth, although this will vary substantially between individual women. In conclusion, it is clear that some published estimates of natural embryo mortality are exaggerated. Although available data do not provide a precise estimate, natural human embryo mortality is lower than is often claimed.', u'/articles/5-2765/v1', ['Urology, Gynecology & Obstetrics'], [u'Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, CB2 3EG, UK']]
