[u'Puzzles in modern biology. III. Two kinds of causality in age-related disease', ['Steven A. Frank'], u'18 Oct 2016', u'The two primary causal dimensions of age-related disease are rate and function. Change in rate of disease development shifts the age of onset. Change in physiological function provides necessary steps in disease progression. A causal factor may alter the rate of physiological change, but that causal factor itself may have no direct physiological role. Alternatively, a causal factor may provide a necessary physiological function, but that causal factor itself may not alter the rate of disease onset. The rate-function duality provides the basis for solving puzzles of age-related disease. Causal factors of cancer illustrate the duality between rate processes of discovery, such as somatic mutation, and necessary physiological functions, such as invasive penetration across tissue barriers. Examples from cancer suggest general principles of age-related disease.', u'/articles/5-2533/v1', ['Public Health & Epidemiology', 'Development & Evolution', 'Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology'], [u'Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of California, Irvine, USA']]
[u'A sensitive 301V BSE serial PMCA assay', ['Kevin C. Gough', 'Keith Bishop', 'Robert A. Somerville', 'Nora Hunter', 'Ben C. Maddison'], u'18 Oct 2016', u'The prion strain 301V, is a mouse passaged form of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE). \xa0It has been used as a model of BSE for more than 20 years, in particular in the investigation of tissue distribution of infectivity, the molecular phenotype and transmission properties of BSE, strain typing assays and prion inactivation studies. Most 301V experiments have required murine bioassay as a method for the quantitation of infectivity. To date this model strain has not been studied with the protein misfolding cyclic amplification assay (PMCA) which detects prion-associated PrPSc protein. The detection of BSE PrPSc by PMCA can be more sensitive than mouse bioassay and is carried out in a much shorter time frame of days as opposed to months/years. Here, we describe the development of a new highly sensitive and specific PMCA assay for murine 301V and assess the sensitivity of the assay in direct comparison with murine bioassay of the same material. This in vitro assay detected, in a few days, \xa0301V at a brain dilution of at least 1x10-9, compared to bioassay of the same material in VM mice that could detect down to a 1x10-8 dilution and took >180 days. The 301V PMCA may therefore offer a faster and more sensitive alternative to live animal bioassay when studying the BSE agent in VM mice.', u'/articles/5-2529/v1', ['Immunology, Microbiology & Infectious Diseases', 'Neuroscience, Neurology & Psychiatry'], [u'School of Veterinary Medicine and Science, The University of Nottingham, Loughborough, UK', u'ADAS-UK Biotechnology group, School of Veterinary Medicine and Science, The University of Nottingham, Loughborough, UK', u'The Roslin Institute, The University of Edinburgh, Easter Bush, UK']]
[u'Case Report:\xa0Whole exome sequencing identifies variation c.2308G>A p.E770K in RAG1 associated with B- T- NK+ severe combined immunodeficiency', ['Geeta Govindaraj', 'Shamsudheen Karuthedath Vellarikkal', 'Rijith Jayarajan', 'Rowmika Ravi', 'Ankit Verma', 'C Krishnan', 'Machinari Puthenpurayil Jayakrishnan', 'Riyaz Arakkal', 'Revathi Raj', 'Sridhar Sivasubbu', 'Vinod Scaria'], u'18 Oct 2016', u'Severe combined immunodeficiency is a large clinically heterogeneous group of disorders caused by a defect in the development of humoral or cellular immune responses. At least 13 genes are known to be involved in the pathophysiology of the disease and the mutation spectrum in SCID have been well documented. The widespread application of whole-exome sequencing based on next-generation sequencing has offered a new opportunity to systematically screen these genes in clinical scales. In this report, we describe the application of whole exome sequencing for arriving at a molecular diagnosis in a child suffering from B- T- NK+ severe combined immunodeficiency. Apart from making the accurate molecular diagnosis, we also add a genetic variation c.2308G>A p.E770K to the compendium of variations associated with the disease.', u'/articles/5-2532/v1', ['Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology'], [u'Department of Pediatrics, Institute of Maternal and Child Health, Government Medical College, Kozhikode, India', u'Genomics and Molecular Medicine Unit, CSIR Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, Delhi, India', u'Apollo Speciality Hospital, Chennai, India', u'GN Ramachandran Knowledge Center for Genome Informatics, CSIR Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, Delhi, India', u'Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research (AcSIR), CSIR-IGIB, Delhi, India']]
