[u'The use of collagen matrix (Ologen) as a patch graft in glaucoma tube shunt surgery, a retrospective chart review', ['John D. Stephens', 'Steven R. Sarkisian, Jr.'], u'01 Aug 2016', u'Purpose: To determine the safety and efficacy of collagen matrix as a patch graft in glaucoma drainage surgery. Collagen matrix grafts may be advantageous because they do not need to be harvested from human donors.\nMethods: An institutional, retrospective review of 43 patients with at least 12 months follow-up status post-glaucoma drainage implant surgery were evaluated for signs of tube erosion after initial placement of collagen matrix patch graft.\nResults: Forty-one of 43 eyes (95.3%) required no intervention for patch graft melting with tube erosion. Average time of follow-up was 32 months (range: 12-45). Two cases had tube erosion at 4 months and 26 months post-op requiring tube revision, which was successfully revised with conjunctiva (4 month erosion) and donor sclera (26 month erosion).\nConclusion:\xa0 Our results suggest that collagen matrix patch grafts may be used successfully as a patch graft in glaucoma tube shunt surgery, and may be advantageous because they do not have to be harvested from human donors. It is possible that exposure rates may be higher after longer follow-up and with larger numbers of patients. Further research is needed to compare Ologen to traditional graft materials to conclusively determine the safety and efficacy of collagen matrix as a novel patch graft material.', u'/articles/5-1898/v1', ['Eye Disorders & ENT'], [u'Dean McGee Eye Institute, University of Oklahoma School of Medicine, Oklahoma City, OK, 73126-0901, USA']]
[u'Moderate chronic fetal alcohol exposure causes a motor learning deficit in adult outbred Swiss-Webster mice', ['Tyler H. Reekes', 'H. Thomas Vinyard III', 'William Echols', 'Andrew J. Eubank III', 'Michael D. Bouldin', 'William H. Murray', 'Stephen Brewer', 'Blake T. Brown', 'Harold L. Willis Jr', 'Zachary Tabrani', 'Carlita B. Favero', 'Erin B.D. Clabough'], u'01 Aug 2016', u'Prenatal ethanol exposure can negatively affect development, causing physical and/or cognitive deficits in the offspring. Behavioral changes are typically characterized during childhood, but they can also persist into adulthood. The extent of Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorder (FASD) abnormalities depends upon the amount and manner of ethanol intake, leading to a large variety of animal models. In order to mimic the genetically diverse human condition, we examined an outbred strain of mice exposed to chronic gestational ethanol and characterized subsequent behavioral alterations during adulthood. To detect deficits in cognitive ability and/or motor function, we ran the mice through tests designed to detect either memory/learning ability or motor strength/skill. We tested cognitive responses using the Barnes Maze and the Open Field Aversion Test, and motor skills using Kondziela\u2019s Inverted Screen Test and the rotarod. As adults, the FASD mice showed no significant differences on grip strength, open field, or the Barnes maze; however, we found that outbred mice who had experienced moderate prenatal ethanol exposure were slower to learn the rotarod as adults, though they did not differ in overall performance. Our data suggest a specific FASD vulnerability in motor learning ability, and also open the door to further investigation on the effect of ethanol on brain areas involved in motor learning, including the striatum.', u'/articles/5-1896/v1', ['Development & Evolution', 'Neuroscience, Neurology & Psychiatry'], [u'Hampden-Sydney College, Hampden-Sydney College, Hampden-Sydney, VA, VA 23943, USA', u'Department of Biology, Ursinus College, Collegeville, PA, PA 19426, USA']]
