[u'Decrease in rate of multiple sclerosis-related hospitalizations in Portugal', ['Marta Pereira', 'Dimitra Lambrelli', 'Sreeram V. Ramagopalan'], u'13 Jun 2016', u'We sought to investigate the rate of multiple sclerosis (MS)-related hospitalizations in Portugal and assess whether there have been temporal changes as described in other countries. Using data from the Portuguese National Discharge Registry, we observed that between 2008 and 2013 the rate of MS-related hospitalizations decreased by 44%, from 15.9/100 person-years (95% confidence interval (CI: 14.9-16.9) in 2008 to 8.9/100 person-years (95% CI: 8.2-9.6) in 2013. The change in hospitalization rates is in accordance with what has been observed in other countries, and coincides with the release of new therapies for MS in Portugal.', u'/articles/5-1353/v1', ['Public Health & Epidemiology', 'Neuroscience, Neurology & Psychiatry'], [u'Real-World Evidence, Evidera, London, W6 8DL, UK']]
[u'DRIMSeq: a Dirichlet-multinomial framework for multivariate count outcomes in genomics', ['Malgorzata Nowicka', 'Mark D. Robinson'], u'13 Jun 2016', u'There are many instances in genomics data analyses where measurements are made on a multivariate response. For example, alternative splicing can lead to multiple expressed isoforms from the same primary transcript. There are situations where the total abundance of gene expression does not change (e.g. between normal and disease state), but differences in the relative ratio of expressed isoforms may have significant phenotypic consequences or lead to prognostic capabilities. Similarly, knowledge of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) that affect splicing, so-called splicing quantitative trait loci (sQTL), will help to characterize the effects of genetic variation on gene expression. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) has provided an attractive toolbox to carefully unravel alternative splicing outcomes and recently, fast and accurate methods for transcript quantification have become available. We propose a statistical framework based on the Dirichlet-multinomial distribution that can discover changes in isoform usage between conditions and SNPs that affect splicing outcome using these quantifications. The Dirichlet-multinomial model naturally accounts for the differential gene expression without losing information about overall gene abundance and by joint modeling of isoform expression, it has the capability to account for their correlated nature. The main challenge in this approach is to get robust estimates of model parameters with limited numbers of replicates. We approach this by sharing information and show that our method improves on existing approaches in terms of standard statistical performance metrics. The framework is applicable to other multivariate scenarios, such as Poly-A-seq or where beta-binomial models have been applied (e.g., differential DNA methylation). Our method is available as a Bioconductor R package called DRIMSeq.', u'/articles/5-1356/v1', ['Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology', 'Physiology, Pharmacology & Drug Discovery'], [u'Institute for Molecular Life Sciences, University of Zurich, Zurich, 8057, Switzerland', u'SIB Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics, University of Zurich, Zurich, 8057, Switzerland']]
[u'Preliminary investigation of glyphosate resistance mechanism in giant ragweed using transcriptome analysis', ['Karthik Ramaswamy Padmanabhan', 'Kabelo Segobye', 'Stephen C. Weller', 'Burkhard Schulz', 'Michael Gribskov'], u'13 Jun 2016', u'Giant ragweed (Ambrosia trifida) is a highly competitive annual weed prevalent mainly in the United States across the eastern Corn Belt. Glyphosate has been a key herbicide to help tackle the spread of giant ragweed in the past few decades. Recently, there have been reports of widespread resistance to glyphosate in giant ragweed, with the mechanism of resistance yet to be determined. We designed a single-replicate RNA sequencing experiment to study the genes differentially expressed between glyphosate-resistant and glyphosate-sensitive biotypes of giant ragweed. We used a de novo assembly of the giant ragweed transcriptome to determine key marker genes that could help explain the mechanism of resistance.', u'/articles/5-1354/v1', ['Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, 47907, USA', u'Department of Plant Science and Landscape Architecture, , College of Agriculture and Natural Resources, University of Maryland, College Park, MD, 20742, USA', u'Department of Horticulture and Landscape Architecture, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, 47907, USA', u'Department of Computer Science, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, 47904, USA']]
