[u'Top 10 metrics for life science software good practices', ['Haydee Artaza', 'Neil Chue Hong', 'Manuel Corpas', 'Angel Corpuz', 'Rob Hooft', 'Rafael C. Jimenez', 'Brane Leskosek', 'Brett G. Olivier', 'Jan Stourac', 'Radka Svobodova Varekova', 'Thomas Van Parys', 'Daniel Vaughan'], u'16 Aug 2016', u'Metrics for assessing adoption of good development practices are a useful way to ensure that software is sustainable, reusable and functional. Sustainability\xa0means that the software used today will be available - and continue to be improved and supported - in the future.\r\nWe report here an initial set of metrics that measure good practices in software development. This initiative differs from previously developed efforts in being a community-driven grassroots approach where experts from different organisations propose good software practices that have reasonable potential to be adopted by the communities they represent. We not only focus our efforts on understanding and prioritising good practices, we assess their feasibility for implementation and publish them here.', u'/articles/5-2000/v1', ['Public Health & Epidemiology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology'], [u'The Earlham Institute & ELIXIR-UK, Norwich Research Park, Norwich, NR4 7UH, UK', u'Software Sustainability Institute, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, EH9 3FD, UK', u'University \u201cLa Sapienza, Rome, 00185, Italy', u'DTL, PO Box 19245, Utrecht, 3501 DE, Netherlands', u'ELIXIR Hub, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton, CB10 1SD, UK', u'Institute for Biostatistics and Medical Informatics (IBMI), Faculty of Medicine, University of Ljubljana, Ljubljana, SI-1104, Slovenia', u'Systems Bioinformatics, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam, 1081 HV, Netherlands', u'Loschmidt Laboratories, Faculty of Science, Masaryk University, Brno, 625 00, Czech Republic', u'CEITEC Masaryk University, Brno, 625 00, Czech Republic', u'Department of Plant Systems Biology, VIB, Ghent, 9052, Belgium', u'EMBL-EBI, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton, CB10 1SD, UK']]
[u'Using diverse U.S. beef cattle genomes to identify missense mutations in EPAS1, a gene associated with high-altitude pulmonary hypertension', ['Michael P. Heaton', 'Timothy P.L. Smith', 'Jacky K. Carnahan', 'Veronica Basnayake', 'Jiansheng Qiu', 'Barry Simpson', 'Theodore S. Kalbfleisch'], u'16 Aug 2016', u'The availability of whole genome sequence (WGS) data has made it possible to discover protein variants in silico. However, existing bovine WGS databases do not show data in a form conducive to protein variant analysis, and tend to under represent the breadth of genetic diversity in U.S. beef cattle. Thus, our first aim was to use 96 beef sires, sharing minimal pedigree relationships, to create a searchable and publicly viewable set of mapped genomes relevant for 19 popular breeds of U.S. cattle. Our second aim was to identify protein variants encoded by the bovine endothelial PAS domain-containing protein 1 gene (EPAS1), a gene associated with high-altitude pulmonary hypertension in Angus cattle. The identity and quality of genomic sequences were verified by comparing WGS genotypes to those derived from other methods. The average read depth, genotype scoring rate, and genotype accuracy exceeded 14, 99%, and 99%, respectively. The 96 genomes were used to discover four amino acid variants encoded by EPAS1 (E270Q, P362L, A671G, and L701F) and confirm two variants previously associated with disease (A606T and G610S). The six EPAS1 missense mutations were verified with matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry assays, and their frequencies were estimated in a separate collection of 1154 U.S. cattle representing 46 breeds. A rooted phylogenetic tree of eight polypeptide sequences provided a framework for evaluating the likely order of mutations and potential impact of EPAS1 alleles on the adaptive response to chronic hypoxia in U.S. cattle. This public, whole genome resource facilitates in silico identification of protein variants in diverse types of U.S. beef cattle, and provides a means of translating WGS data into a practical biological and evolutionary context for generating and testing hypotheses.', u'/articles/5-2003/v1', ['Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology', 'Plant Biology, Ecology & Environmental Sciences'], [u'U.S. Meat Animal Research Center (USMARC), Clay Center, USA', u'GeneSeek, a Neogen Company, Lincoln, USA', u'Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, School of Medicine, University of Louisville, Louisville, USA']]
