[u'Dynamics of tRNA fragments and their targets in aging mammalian brain', ['Spyros Karaiskos', 'Andrey Grigoriev'], u'24 Nov 2016', u"Background:\xa0The progress of next-generation sequencing technologies has unveiled various non-coding RNAs that have previously been considered products of random degradation and attracted only minimal interest. Among small RNA families, microRNA (miRNAs) have traditionally been considered key post-transcriptional regulators. However, recent studies have reported evidence for widespread presence of fragments of tRNA molecules (tRFs) across a range of organisms and tissues, and of tRF involvement in Argonaute complexes.\xa0Methods:To elucidate potential tRF functionality, we compared available RNA sequencing datasets derived from the brains of young, mid-aged and old rats. Using sliding 7-mer windows along a tRF, we searched for putative seed sequences with high numbers of conserved complementary sites within 3' UTRs of 23 vertebrate genomes. We analyzed Gene Ontology term enrichment of predicted tRF targets and compared their transcript levels with targets of miRNAs in the context of age.\xa0Results and Discussion:\xa0We detected tRFs originating from 3\u2019- and 5\u2019-ends of tRNAs in rat brains at significant levels. These fragments showed dynamic changes: 3\u2019 tRFs monotonously increased with age, while 5\u2019 tRFs displayed less consistent patterns. Furthermore, 3\u2019 tRFs showed a narrow size range compared to 5\u2019 tRFs, suggesting a difference in their biogenesis mechanisms. Similar to our earlier results in Drosophila and compatible with other experimental findings, we found \u201cseed\u201d sequence locations on both ends of different tRFs. Putative targets of these fragments were found to be enriched in neuronal and developmental functions. Comparison of tRFs and miRNAs increasing in abundance with age revealed small, but distinct changes in brain target transcript levels for these two types of small RNA, with the higher proportion of tRF targets decreasing with age. We also illustrated the utility of tRF analysis for annotating tRNA genes in sequenced genomes.", u'/articles/5-2758/v1', ['Development & Evolution', 'Neuroscience, Neurology & Psychiatry', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology'], [u'Department of Biology, Center for Computational and Integrative Biology, Rutgers University, Camden, USA']]
[u'A guide and best practices for R/Bioconductor tool integration in Galaxy', ['Nitesh Turaga', 'Mallory A. Freeberg', 'Dannon Baker', 'John Chilton', 'Anton Nekrutenko', 'James Taylor'], u'24 Nov 2016', u'Galaxy provides a web-based platform for interactive, large-scale data analyses, which integrates bioinformatics tools written in a variety of languages. A substantial number of these tools are written in the R programming language, which enables powerful analysis and visualization of complex data. The Bioconductor Project provides access to these open source R tools and currently contains over 1200 R packages. While some R/Bioconductor tools are currently available in Galaxy, scientific research communities would benefit greatly if they were integrated on a larger scale. Tool development in Galaxy is an early entry point for Galaxy developers, biologists, and bioinformaticians, who want to make their work more accessible to a larger community of scientists. Here, we present a guide and best practices for R/Bioconductor tool integration into Galaxy. In addition, we introduce new functionalities to existing software that resolve dependency issues and semi-automate generation of tool integration components. With these improvements, novice and experienced developers can easily integrate R/Bioconductor tools into Galaxy to make their work more accessible to the scientific community.', u'/articles/5-2757/v1', ['Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology'], [u'Department of Biology, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, USA', u'Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Pennsylvania State University, University Park, USA']]
