[u'MEPPitope: spatial, electrostatic and secondary structure perturbations in the post-fusion Dengue virus envelope protein highlights known epitopes and conserved residues in the Zika virus', ['Sandeep Chakraborty'], u'03 Jun 2016', u'The dramatic transformation of the Zika virus (ZIKV) from a relatively unknown virus to a pathogen generating global-wide panic has exposed the dearth of detailed knowledge about this virus. Decades of research in the related Dengue virus (DENV), finally culminating in a vaccine registered for use in endemic regions (CYD-TDV), provides key insights in developing strategies for tackling ZIKV. The previously established MEPP methodology compares two conformations of the same protein and identifies residues with significant spatial and electrostatic perturbations. In the current work, MEPP analyzed the pre-and post-fusion DENV type 2 envelope (E) protein, and identified several known epitopes (His317, Tyr299, Glu26, Arg188, etc.) (MEPPitope). These residues are overwhelmingly conserved in ZIKV and all DENV serotypes. Characterization of \u03b1-helices in E-proteins show that \u03b11 is not conserved in the sequence space of ZIKV and DENV. Furthermore, perturbation of \u03b11 in the post-fusion DENV structure includes a known epitope Asp215, a residue absent in the pre-fusion \u03b11. A cationic \u03b2-sheet in the GAG-binding domain that is stereochemically equivalent in ZIKV and all DENV serotypes is also highlighted due to a residue pair (Arg286-Arg288) that has a significant electrostatic polarity reversal upon fusion. Finally, two highly conserved residues (Thr32 and Thr40), with little emphasis in existing literature, are found to have significant electrostatic perturbation. Thus, a combination of different computational methods enable the rapid and rational detection of critical residues that can be made the target of small drugs, or as epitopes in the search for an elusive therapy or vaccine that neutralizes multiple members of the Flaviviridae family.', u'/articles/5-1150/v1', ['Immunology, Microbiology & Infectious Diseases'], [u'Celia Engineers, Navi Mumbai, India']]
[u'Biomedical Mutation Analysis (BMA): A software tool for analyzing mutations associated with antiviral resistance', ['Karina Salvatierra', 'Hector Florez'], u'03 Jun 2016', u'Introduction: Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is considered a major public health problem, with 200 million people infected worldwide. The treatment for HCV chronic infection with pegylated interferon alpha plus ribavirin inhibitors is unspecific; consequently, the treatment is effective in only 50% of patients infected. This has prompted the development of direct-acting antivirals (DAA) that target virus proteins. These DAA have demonstrated a potent effect in vitro and in vivo; however, virus mutations associated with the development of resistance have been described.\nObjective: To design and develop an online information system for detecting mutations in amino acids known to be implicated in resistance to DAA.\nMaterials and methods: \xa0\xa0 We have used computer applications, technological tools, standard languages, infrastructure systems and algorithms, to analyze positions associated with resistance to DAA for the NS3, NS5A, and NS5B genes of HCV.\nResults: We have designed and developed an online information system named Biomedical Mutation Analysis (BMA), which allows users to calculate changes in nucleotide and amino acid sequences for each selected sequence from conventional Sanger and cloning sequencing using a graphical interface.\nConclusion: BMA quickly, easily and effectively analyzes mutations, including complete documentation and examples. Furthermore, the development of different visualization techniques allows proper interpretation and understanding of the results.\r\nThe data obtained using BMA will be useful for the assessment and surveillance of HCV resistance to new antivirals, and for the treatment regimens by selecting those DAA to which the virus is not resistant, avoiding unnecessary treatment failures. The software is available at: http://bma.itiud.org.', u'/articles/5-1141/v1', ['Immunology, Microbiology & Infectious Diseases', 'Hepatology & Nephrology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology'], [u'Faculty of Exact, Chemical and Natural Sciences, Universidad Nacional de Misiones, Posadas, Argentina', u'Faculty of Technology, Universidad Distrital Francisco Jos\xe9 de Caldas, Bogot\xe1, Colombia']]
