[u'Biomarkers of acute kidney injury and associations with short- and long-term outcomes', ['Jennifer A. Schaub', 'Chirag R. Parikh'], u'24 May 2016', u'Acute kidney injury is strongly associated with increased mortality and other adverse outcomes. Medical researchers have intensively investigated novel biomarkers to predict short- and long-term outcomes of acute kidney injury in many patient care settings, such as cardiac surgery, intensive care units, heart failure, and transplant. Future research should focus on leveraging this relationship to improve enrollment for clinical trials of acute kidney injury.', u'/articles/5-986/v1', ['Cardiopulmonary & Vascular Disorders', 'Hepatology & Nephrology', 'Critical Care & Emergency Medicine', 'Physiology, Pharmacology & Drug Discovery'], [u'Program of Applied Translational Research, Yale University, New Haven, CT, USA']]
[u'Assessing change in patient-reported quality of life after elective surgery: protocol for an observational comparison study', ['Vanessa L. Kronzer', 'Michelle R. Jerry', 'Michael S. Avidan'], u'24 May 2016', u'Despite their widespread use, the two main methods of assessing quality of life after surgery have never been directly compared. To support patient decision-making and study design, we aim to compare these two methods. The first of these methods is to assess quality of life before surgery and again after surgery using the same validated scale. The second is simply to ask patients whether or not they think their post-operative quality of life is better, worse, or the same. Our primary objective is to assess agreement between the two measures. Secondary objectives are to calculate the minimum clinically important difference (MCID) and to describe the variation across surgical specialties. To accomplish these aims, we will administer surveys to patients undergoing elective surgery, both before surgery and again 30 days after surgery. This protocol follows detailed guidelines for observational study protocols.', u'/articles/5-976/v1', ['Public Health & Epidemiology'], [u'Department of Anesthesia, Washington University School of Medicine, Saint Louis, MO, 63110, USA', u'Department of Biostatistics, University of Michigan, Canton, MI, 48188, USA']]
[u'Dynamical systems, attractors, and neural circuits', ['Paul Miller'], u'24 May 2016', u'Biology is the study of dynamical systems. Yet most of us working in biology have limited pedagogical training in the theory of dynamical systems, an unfortunate historical fact that can be remedied for future generations of life scientists. In my particular field of systems neuroscience, neural circuits are rife with nonlinearities at all levels of description, rendering simple methodologies and our own intuition unreliable. Therefore, our ideas are likely to be wrong unless informed by good models. These models should be based on the mathematical theories of dynamical systems since functioning neurons are dynamic\u2014they change their membrane potential and firing rates with time. Thus, selecting the appropriate type of dynamical system upon which to base a model is an important first step in the modeling process. This step all too easily goes awry, in part because there are many frameworks to choose from, in part because the sparsely sampled data can be consistent with a variety of dynamical processes, and in part because each modeler has a preferred modeling approach that is difficult to move away from. This brief review summarizes some of the main dynamical paradigms that can arise in neural circuits, with comments on what they can achieve computationally and what signatures might reveal their presence within empirical data. I provide examples of different dynamical systems using simple circuits of two or three cells, emphasizing that any one connectivity pattern is compatible with multiple, diverse functions.', u'/articles/5-992/v1', ['Eye Disorders & ENT', 'Neuroscience, Neurology & Psychiatry', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology'], [u'Volen National Center for Complex Systems, Brandeis University, Waltham, Massachusetts, 02454-9110, USA']]
[u'Recent advances in metabolic and bariatric surgery', ['Vance L. Albaugh', 'C. Robb Flynn', 'Robyn A. Tamboli', 'Naji N. Abumrad'], u'24 May 2016', u'Obesity and its associated medical conditions continue to increase and add significant burden to patients, as well as health-care systems, worldwide. Bariatric surgery is the most effective treatment for severe obesity and its comorbidities, and resolution of diabetes is weight loss-independent in the case of some operations. Although these weight-independent effects are frequently described clinically, the mechanisms behind them are not well understood and remain an intense area of focus in the growing field of metabolic and bariatric surgery. Perceptions of the mechanisms responsible for the beneficial metabolic effects of metabolic/bariatric operations have shifted from being mostly restrictive and malabsorption over the last 10 to 15 years to being more neuro-hormonal in origin. In this review, we describe recent basic and clinical findings of the major clinical procedures (adjustable gastric banding, vertical sleeve gastrectomy, Roux-en-Y gastric bypass, and biliopancreatic diversion) as well as other experimental procedures (ileal interposition and bile diversion) that recapitulate many of the metabolic effects of these complex operations in a simpler fashion. As the role of bile acids and the gut microbiome on metabolism is becoming increasingly well described, their potential roles in these improvements following metabolic surgery are becoming better appreciated. Bile acid and gut microbiome changes, in light of recent developments, are discussed in the context of these surgical procedures, as well as their implications for future study.', u'/articles/5-978/v1', ['Endocrinology & Gastroenterology'], [u'Department of Surgery, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, 37232, USA']]
[u'Cannabinoid receptor type-1: breaking the dogmas', ['Arnau Busquets Garcia', 'Edgar Soria-Gomez', 'Luigi Bellocchio', 'Giovanni Marsicano'], u'24 May 2016', u'The endocannabinoid system (ECS) is abundantly expressed in the brain. This system regulates a plethora of physiological functions and is composed of cannabinoid receptors, their endogenous ligands (endocannabinoids), and the enzymes involved in the metabolism of endocannabinoids. In this review, we highlight the new advances in cannabinoid signaling, focusing on a key component of the ECS, the type-1 cannabinoid receptor (CB1). In recent years, the development of new imaging and molecular tools has demonstrated that this receptor can be distributed in many cell types (e.g., neuronal or glial cells) and intracellular compartments (e.g., mitochondria). Interestingly, cellular and molecular effects are differentially mediated by CB1 receptors according to their specific localization (e.g., glutamatergic or GABAergic neurons). Moreover, this receptor is expressed in the periphery, where it can modulate periphery-brain connections. Finally, the better understanding of the CB1 receptor structure led researchers to propose interesting and new allosteric modulators. Thus, the advances and the new directions of the CB1 receptor field will provide new insights and better approaches to profit from its interesting therapeutic profile.', u'/articles/5-990/v1', ['Neuroscience, Neurology & Psychiatry', 'Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology', 'Physiology, Pharmacology & Drug Discovery'], [u'Endocannabinoids and Neuroadaptation, INSERM U1215 NeuroCentre Magendie, Bordeaux, 33077, France', u'University of Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France']]
