[u'Lightning Injury is a disaster in Bangladesh? - Exploring its magnitude and public health needs', ['Animesh Biswas', 'Koustuv Dalal', 'Jahangir Hossain', 'Kamran Ul Baset', 'Fazlur Rahman', 'Saidur Rahman Mashreky'], u'29 Dec 2016', u'Background: Lightning injury is a global public health issue. Low and middle-income countries in the tropical and subtropical regions of the world are most affected by lightning. Bangladesh is one of the countries at particular risk, with a high number of devastating lightning injuries in the past years, causing high mortality and morbidity. The exact magnitude of the problem is still unknown and therefore this study investigates the epidemiology of lightning injuries in Bangladesh, using a national representative sample.\nMethods: A mixed method was used. The study is based on results from a nationwide cross-sectional survey performed in 2003 in twelve randomly selected districts. In the survey, a total of 819,429 respondents from 171,336 households were interviewed using face-to-face interviews. In addition, qualitative information was obtained by reviewing national and international newspaper reports of lightning injuries sustained in Bangladesh between 13 and 15 May 2016.\nResults: The annual mortality rate was 3.661 (95% CI 0.9313\u20139.964) per 1,000,000 people. The overall incidence of lightning injury was 19.89/100,000 people. Among the victims, 60.12% (n=98) were males and 39.87% (n=65) were females. Males were particularly vulnerable, with a 1.46 times increased risk compared with females (RR 1.46, 95% CI 1.06\u20131.99). Rural populations were more vulnerable, with a 8.73 times higher risk, than urban populations (RR 8.73, 95% CI 5.13\u201314.86). About 43% of injuries occurred between 12 noon and 6 pm. The newspapers reported 81 deaths during 2 days of electric storms in 2016. Lightning has been declared a natural disaster in Bangladesh.\nConclusions: The current study indicates that lightning injuries are a public health problem in Bangladesh. The study recommends further investigations to develop interventions to reduce lightning injuries, mortality and related burden in Bangladesh.', u'/articles/5-2931/v1', ['Public Health & Epidemiology'], [u'Centre for Injury Prevention and Research, Bangladesh (CIPRB), Dhaka, Bangladesh', u'School of Health Sciences, \xd6rebro University, \xd6rebro, Sweden']]
[u'Expression of lectin-like transcript-1 in human tissues', ['Alba Llibre', 'Lucy Garner', 'Amy Partridge', 'Gordon J. Freeman', 'Paul Klenerman', 'Chris B. Willberg'], u'29 Dec 2016', u'Background: Receptor-ligand pairs of C-type lectin-like proteins have been shown to play an important role in cross talk between lymphocytes, as well as in immune responses within concrete tissues and structures, such as the skin or the germinal centres. The CD161-Lectin-like Transcript 1 (LLT1) pair has gained particular attention in recent years, yet a detailed analysis of LLT1 distribution in human tissue is lacking. One reason for this is the limited availability and poor characterisation of anti-LLT1 antibodies. Methods: We assessed the staining capabilities of a novel anti-LLT1 antibody clone (2H7), both by immunohistochemistry and flow cytometry, showing its efficiency at LLT1 recognition in both settings. We then analysed LLT1 expression in a wide variety of human tissues. Results: We found LLT1 expression in circulating B cells and monocytes, but not in lung and liver-resident macrophages. We found strikingly high LLT1 expression in immune-privileged sites, such as the brain, placenta and testes, and confirmed the ability of LLT1 to inhibit NK cell function. Conclusions: Overall, this study contributes to the development of efficient tools for the study of LLT1. Moreover, its expression in different healthy human tissues and, particularly, in immune-privileged sites, establishes LLT1 as a good candidate as a regulator of immune responses.', u'/articles/5-2929/v1', ['Immunology, Microbiology & Infectious Diseases'], [u'Peter Medawar Building for Pathogen Research, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK', u'Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical School, Boston, USA', u'Oxford NIHR Biomedical Research Centre, Oxford, UK']]
[u'Measuring the relative importance of different agricultural inputs to global and regional crop yield growth since 1975', ['Erik Nelson', 'Clare Bates Congdon'], u'29 Dec 2016', u'Background: We identify the agricultural inputs that drove the growth in global and regional crop yields from 1975 to the mid-2000s.\xa0Methods: We compare and contrast the inputs that drove yield change as identified by econometrically estimated yield functions and decision trees that use yield change as the class attribute.\xa0Results: We find that improvements in agricultural science and management, increased fertilizer use, and changes in crop mix around the world explained most of the gain in global crop yields, although the yield impacts of input use varied across the latitudinal gradient. Climate change over this time period caused yields to be only slightly lower than they would have been otherwise. In some cases, cropland extensification had as much of a negative impact on global and regional yields as climate change.\xa0Conclusions: To maintain the momentum in yield growth across the globe 1) the transfer of agricultural chemicals and investment in agricultural science and management in the tropics must increase rapidly and 2) international trade in agricultural products must expand significantly.', u'/articles/5-2930/v1', ['Plant Biology, Ecology & Environmental Sciences'], [u'Department of Economics, Bowdoin College, Brunswick, USA', u'Department of Computer Science, Bowdoin College, Brunswick, USA']]
