[u'Changes in labial capillary density on ascent to and descent from high altitude', ['Edward Gilbert-Kawai', 'Jonny Coppel', 'Hennis Phillip', 'Michael Grocott', 'Can Ince', 'Daniel Martin'], u'30 Aug 2016', u'Present knowledge of how the microcirculation is altered by prolonged exposure to hypoxia at high altitude is incomplete and modification of existing analytical techniques may improve our knowledge considerably. We set out to use a novel simplified method of measuring in vivo capillary density during an expedition to high altitude using a CytoCam incident dark field imaging video-microscope.\r\nThe simplified method of data capture involved recording one-second images of the mucosal surface of the inner lip to reveal data about microvasculature density in ten individuals. This was done on ascent to, and descent from, high altitude. Analysis was conducted offline by two independent investigators blinded to the participant identity, testing conditions and the imaging site.\xa0 Additionally we monitored haemoglobin concentration and haematocrit data to see if we could support or refute mechanisms of altered density relating to vessel recruitment. Repeated sets of paired values were compared using Kruskall Wallis Analysis of Variance tests, whilst comparisons of values between sites was by related samples Wilcoxon Signed Rank Test. Correlation between different variables was performed using Spearman\u2019s rank correlation coefficient, and concordance between analysing investigators using intra-class correlation coefficient.\r\nThere was a significant increase in capillary density from London on ascent to high altitude; median capillaries per field of view area increased from 22.8 to 25.3 (p=0.021). There was a further increase in vessel density during the six weeks spent at altitude (25.3 to 32.5, p=0.017). Moreover, vessel density remained high on descent to Kathmandu (31.0 capillaries per field of view area), despite a significant decrease in haemoglobin concentration and haematocrit.\r\nUsing a simplified technique, we have demonstrated an increase in capillary density on early and sustained exposure to hypobaric hypoxia at thigh altitude, and that this remains elevated on descent to normoxia. The technique is simple, reliable and reproducible.', u'/articles/5-2107/v1', ['Cardiopulmonary & Vascular Disorders', 'Physiology, Pharmacology & Drug Discovery'], [u'University College London Centre for Altitude Space and Extreme Environment Medicine, UCLH NIHR Biomedical Research Centre, Institute of Sport and Exercise Health, London, UK', u'Integrative Physiology and Critical Illness Group, Clinical and Experimental Sciences, Mailpoint 810, Sir Henry Wellcome Laboratories, Faculty of Medicine, University of Southampton, University Hospital Southampton NHS Foundation Trust, Southhampton, UK', u'Anaesthesia and Critical Care Research Unit, University Hospital Southampton NHS Foundation Trust, Southhampton, UK', u'Department of Intensive Care, Erasmus MC University Hospital Rotterdam, Rotterdam, Netherlands', u'University College London, Division of Surgery and Interventional Science, Royal Free Hospital, London, UK', u"Erasmus MC-Sophia Children's Hospital, Rotterdam, Netherlands"]]
[u'Whose sample is it anyway? Widespread misannotation of samples in transcriptomics studies', ['Lilah Toker', 'Min Feng', 'Paul Pavlidis'], u'30 Aug 2016', u'Concern about the reproducibility and reliability of biomedical research has been rising. An understudied issue is the prevalence of sample mislabeling, one impact of which would be invalid comparisons. We studied this issue in a corpus of human transcriptomics studies by comparing the provided annotations of sex to the expression levels of sex-specific genes. We identified apparent mislabeled samples in 46% of the datasets studied, yielding a 99% confidence lower-bound estimate for all studies of 33%. In a separate analysis of a set of datasets concerning a single cohort of subjects, 2/4 had mislabeled samples, indicating laboratory mix-ups rather than data recording errors. While the number of mixed-up samples per study was generally small, because our method can only identify a subset of potential mix-ups, our estimate is conservative for the breadth of the problem. Our findings emphasize the need for more stringent sample tracking, and that re-users of published data must be alert to the possibility of annotation and labelling errors.', u'/articles/5-2103/v1', ['Public Health & Epidemiology'], [u'Department of Psychiatry, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, V6T 2A1, Canada', u'Michael Smith Laboratories, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, V6T 1Z4, Canada', u'Graduate Program in Genome Sciences and Technology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, V5Z 4S6, Canada']]
[u'Factors affecting stone free rate of primary percutaneous nephrolithotomy on staghorn calculi: a single center experience of 15 years', ['Widi Atmoko', 'Ponco Birowo', 'Nur Rasyid'], u'30 Aug 2016', u'Objectives: Percutaneous nephrolithotomy on staghorn calculi is challenging for urologists because it is difficult to remove all of the stones. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the associated factors of stone-free rate after primary percutaneous nephrolithotomy on staghorn calculi in a large series of patients at a single, tertiary referral, endourologic stone center.\nMethods: We collected data from medical record between January 2000 and December 2015. A total of 345 primary percutaneous nephrolithotomy procedures were performed for patients with staghorn calculi. This study included both and made no distinction between partial and complete staghorn calculi. Stone-free is defined as the absence of residual stones after undergoing percutaneous nephrolithotomy for the first time. Significant factors from univariate analysis that correlated with stone-free rate after primary percutaneous nephrolithotomy of staghorn stone were further analyzed using multivariate regression analysis.\nResults: The mean patient age was 52.23\xb110.38 years. The stone-free rate of percutaneous nephrolithotomy monotherapy was 62.6%. The mean operating time was 79.55\xb134.46 minutes. The mean length of stay in hospital was 4.29\xb13.00 days. Using the chi-square test, history of ipsilateral open renal stone surgery (p = 0.01), stone burden (p = < 0.001), and type of anesthesia (p = 0.04) had a significant impact on the stone-free. From multivariate analysis, the history of ipsilateral open renal stone surgery [OR 0.48; 95% CI 0.28-0.81; p 0.01] and the stone burden [OR 0.28; 95% CI 0.18-0.45; p 0.00] were significant independent risk factors for stone-free.', u'/articles/5-2106/v1', ['Hepatology & Nephrology', 'Physiology, Pharmacology & Drug Discovery'], [u'Department of Urology, Cipto Mangunkusumo Hospital, Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Indonesia, Jakarta, 10430, Indonesia']]
[u'Applying machine learning to automated segmentation of head and neck tumour volumes and organs at risk on radiotherapy planning CT and MRI scans', ['Carlton Chu', 'Jeffrey De Fauw', 'Nenad Tomasev', 'Bernardino Romera Paredes', 'Cian Hughes', 'Joseph Ledsam', 'Trevor Back', 'Hugh Montgomery', 'Geraint Rees', 'Rosalind Raine', 'Kevin Sullivan', 'Syed Moinuddin', "Derek D'Souza", 'Olaf Ronneberger', 'Ruheena Mendes', 'Julien Cornebise'], u'30 Aug 2016', u'Radiotherapy is one of the main ways head and neck cancers are treated; radiation is used to kill cancerous cells and prevent their recurrence.\r\n\xa0\r\nComplex treatment planning is required to ensure that enough radiation is given to the tumour, and little to other sensitive structures (known as organs at risk) such as the eyes and nerves which might otherwise be damaged. This is especially difficult in the head and neck, where multiple at-risk structures often lie in extremely close proximity to the tumour. It can take radiotherapy experts four hours or more to pick out the important areas on planning scans (known as segmentation).\r\n\xa0\r\nThis research will focus on applying machine learning algorithms to automatic segmentation of head and neck planning computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans at University College London Hospital NHS Foundation Trust patients. Through analysis of the images used in radiotherapy DeepMind Health will investigate improvements in efficiency of cancer treatment pathways.', u'/articles/5-2104/v1', ['Oncology & Hematology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology', 'Physiology, Pharmacology & Drug Discovery'], [u'DeepMind, London, EC4A 3TW, UK', u'Institute of Sport, Exercise and Health, London, W1T 7HA, UK', u'Alexandra House, University College London, Bloomsbury Campus, London, WC1N 3AR, UK', u'Department of Applied Health Research, University College London, London, WC1E 7HB, UK', u'University College Hospital, London, NW1 2BU, UK']]
