[u'Pathogenesis of myasthenia gravis: update on disease types, models, and mechanisms', ['William D. Phillips', 'Angela Vincent'], u'27 Jun 2016', u'Myasthenia gravis is an autoimmune disease of the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) caused by antibodies that attack components of the postsynaptic membrane, impair neuromuscular transmission, and lead to weakness and fatigue of skeletal muscle. This can be generalised or localised to certain muscle groups, and involvement of the bulbar and respiratory muscles can be life threatening. The pathogenesis of myasthenia gravis depends upon the target and isotype of the autoantibodies. Most cases are caused by immunoglobulin (Ig)G1 and IgG3 antibodies to the acetylcholine receptor (AChR). They produce complement-mediated damage and increase the rate of AChR turnover, both mechanisms causing loss of AChR from the postsynaptic membrane. The thymus gland is involved in many patients, and there are experimental and genetic approaches to understand the failure of immune tolerance to the AChR. In a proportion of those patients without AChR antibodies, antibodies to muscle-specific kinase (MuSK), or related proteins such as agrin and low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 4 (LRP4), are present. MuSK antibodies are predominantly IgG4 and cause disassembly of the neuromuscular junction by disrupting the physiological function of MuSK in synapse maintenance and adaptation. Here we discuss how knowledge of neuromuscular junction structure and function has fed into understanding the mechanisms of AChR and MuSK antibodies. Myasthenia gravis remains a paradigm for autoantibody-mediated conditions and these observations show how much there is still to learn about synaptic function and pathological mechanisms.', u'/articles/5-1513/v1', ['Immunology, Microbiology & Infectious Diseases', 'Neuroscience, Neurology & Psychiatry'], [u'Physiology and Bosch Institute, University of Sydney, Anderson Stuart Bldg (F13), Sydney, 2006, Australia', u'Neurosciences Group, Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Weatherall Institute of Molecular Medicine, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK']]
[u'Extracoporeal photopheresis treatment of acute graft-versus-host disease following allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation', ['Aisling M. Flinn', 'Andrew R. Gennery'], u'27 Jun 2016', u'Acute graft-versus-host disease (aGvHD) continues to be a major obstacle to allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Thymic damage secondary to aGvHD along with corticosteroids and other non-selective T lymphocyte-suppressive agents used in the treatment of aGvHD concurrently impair thymopoiesis and negatively impact on immunoreconstitution of the adaptive immune compartment and ultimately adversely affect clinical outcome. Extracorporeal photopheresis (ECP) is an alternative therapeutic strategy that appears to act in an immunomodulatory fashion, potentially involving regulatory T lymphocytes and dendritic cells. By promoting immune tolerance and simultaneously avoiding systemic immunosuppression, ECP could reduce aGvHD and enable a reduction in other immunosuppression, allowing thymic recovery, restoration of normal T lymphopoiesis, and complete immunoreconstitution with improved clinical outcome. Although the safety and efficacy of ECP has been demonstrated, further randomised controlled studies are needed as well as elucidation of the underlying mechanisms responsible and the effect of ECP on thymic recovery.', u'/articles/5-1510/v1', ['Immunology, Microbiology & Infectious Diseases', 'Development & Evolution', 'Oncology & Hematology', 'Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology'], [u'Primary Immunodeficiency Group, Institute of Cellular Medicine, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK', u'Paediatric Haematopoietic Stem Cell Unit, Great North Children\u2019s Hospital, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK']]
[u'Thirty-five years of research into ribozymes and nucleic acid catalysis: where do we stand today?', ['Sabine Muller', 'Bettina Appel', 'Darko Balke', 'Robert Hieronymus', 'Claudia Nubel'], u'27 Jun 2016', u'Since the discovery of the first catalytic RNA in 1981, the field of ribozyme research has developed from the discovery of catalytic RNA motifs in nature and the elucidation of their structures and catalytic mechanisms, into a field of engineering and design towards application in diagnostics, molecular biology and medicine. Owing to the development of powerful protocols for selection of nucleic acid catalysts with a desired functionality from random libraries, the spectrum of nucleic acid supported reactions has greatly enlarged, and importantly, ribozymes have been accompanied by DNAzymes. Current areas of research are the engineering of allosteric ribozymes for artificial regulation of gene expression, the design of ribozymes and DNAzymes for medicinal and environmental diagnostics, and the demonstration of RNA world relevant ribozyme activities. In addition, new catalytic motifs or novel genomic locations of known motifs continue to be discovered in all branches of life by the help of high-throughput bioinformatic approaches. Understanding the biological role of the catalytic RNA motifs widely distributed in diverse genetic contexts belongs to the big challenges of future RNA research.', u'/articles/5-1511/v1', ['Development & Evolution', 'Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology', 'Physiology, Pharmacology & Drug Discovery'], [u'Institute of Biochemistry, Ernst-Moritz-Arndt University Greifswald, Greifswald, Germany']]
[u'Management of postpartum haemorrhage', ['Marie Pierre Bonnet', 'Dan Benhamou'], u'27 Jun 2016', u'Postpartum Haemorrhage (PPH) is a major cause of maternal morbidity and mortality. Treatment of acquired coagulopathy observed in severe PPH is an important part of PPH management, but is mainly based on literature in trauma patients, and data thus should be interpreted with caution. This review describes recent advances in transfusion strategy and in the use of tranexamic acid and fibrinogen concentrates in women with PPH.', u'/articles/5-1514/v1', ['Oncology & Hematology', 'Critical Care & Emergency Medicine', 'Urology, Gynecology & Obstetrics'], [u'Department of Anaesthesia and Intensive Care Medicine, Paris Descartes University, Paris, France', u'Department of Anaesthesia and Intensive Care Medicine, Paris Sud University, Paris, France']]
[u'Advances in genetics: widening our understanding of prostate cancer', ['Angela C. Pine', 'Flavia F. Fioretti', 'Greg N. Brooke', 'Charlotte L. Bevan'], u'27 Jun 2016', u'Prostate cancer is a leading cause of cancer-related death in Western men. Our understanding of the genetic alterations associated with disease predisposition, development, progression, and therapy response is rapidly improving, at least in part, owing to the development of next-generation sequencing technologies. Large advances have been made in our understanding of the genetics of prostate cancer through the application of whole-exome sequencing, and this review summarises recent advances in this field and discusses how exome sequencing could be used clinically to promote personalised medicine for prostate cancer patients.', u'/articles/5-1512/v1', ['Oncology & Hematology', 'Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology', 'Physiology, Pharmacology & Drug Discovery', 'Urology, Gynecology & Obstetrics'], [u'Molecular Oncology, School of Biological Sciences, University of Essex, Colchester, Essex, UK', u'Androgen Signalling Laboratory, Division of Cancer, Department of Surgery and Cancer, Imperial Centre for Translational & Experimental Medicine, Imperial College London, London, UK']]
[u'VISIT-TS version 2: A multimedia tool for population studies on tic disorders', ['M. Jonathan Vachon', 'Catherine W. Striley', 'Mollie R. Gordon', 'Miriam L. Schroeder', 'Emily C. Bihun', 'Jonathan M. Koller', 'Kevin J. Black'], u'27 Jun 2016', u'Population-based assessment of Tourette syndrome (TS) and other tic disorders produces a paradox. On one hand, ideally diagnosis of tic disorders requires expert observation. In fact, diagnostic criteria for TS explicitly require expert assessment of tics for a definite diagnosis. On the other hand, large-scale population surveys with expert assessment of every subject are impracticable. True, several published studies have successfully used expert assessment to find tic prevalence in a representative population (e.g. all students in a school district). However, extending these studies to larger populations is daunting.\n\r\nWe created a multimedia tool to demonstrate tics to a lay audience, discuss their defining and common attributes, and address features that differentiate tics from other movements and vocalizations. A first version was modified to improve clarity and to include a more diverse group in terms of age and ethnicity. The result is a tool intended for epidemiological research. It may also provide additional benefits, such as more representative minority recruitment for other TS studies and increased community awareness of TS.', u'/articles/5-1518/v1', ['Neuroscience, Neurology & Psychiatry'], [u'College of Arts and Sciences, Washington University in St. Louis, University City, USA', u'Department of Epidemiology, Colleges of Medicine and Public Health & Health Professions, University of Florida, Gainesville, USA', u'Menninger Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, USA', u'Private Practice, St. Louis, USA', u'Department of Psychiatry, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, USA', u'Departments of Psychiatry, Neurology, Radiology, and Neuroscience, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, USA']]
[u'CoNet app: inference of biological association networks using Cytoscape', ['Karoline Faust', 'Jeroen Raes'], u'27 Jun 2016', u'Here we present the Cytoscape app version of our association network inference tool CoNet. Though CoNet was developed with microbial community data from sequencing experiments in mind, it is designed to be generic and can detect associations in any data set where biological entities (such as genes, metabolites or species) have been observed repeatedly. The CoNet app supports Cytoscape 2.x and 3.x and offers a variety of network inference approaches, which can also be combined. Here we briefly describe its main features and illustrate its use on microbial count data obtained by 16S rDNA sequencing of arctic soil samples. The CoNet app is available at: http://apps.cytoscape.org/apps/conet.', u'/articles/5-1519/v1', ['Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology'], [u'Center for the Biology of Disease, VIB, Leuven, 3000, Belgium', u'Microbiology Unit, Faculty of Sciences and Bioengineering Sciences, VUB, Brussel, 1050, Belgium', u'Department of Microbiology and Immunology, REGA Institute, KU Leuven, 3000, Belgium']]
