[u'Case Report: Cervical chondrocalcinosis as a complication of Gitelman syndrome', ['Zahra Iqbal', 'Paul Mead', 'John A. Sayer'], u'12 May 2016', u'Gitelman syndrome is an inherited tubulopathy leading to a hypokalaemic metabolic alkalosis with hypomagnesaemia and hypocalciuria. Most cases are due to mutations in SLC12A3, encoding the apical thiazide sensitive co-transporter in the distal convoluted tubule. Musculoskeletal effects of Gitelman syndrome are common, including muscle weakness, tetany and cramps. Chronic hypomagnesaemia can lead to chondrocalcinosis, which often affects knees but can affect other joints. Here we present a case of Gitelman syndrome complicated by cervical chondrocalcinosis leading to neck pain and numbness of the fingers. Treatments directed at correcting both hypokalaemia and hypomagnesaemia were initiated and allowed conservative non-surgical management of the neck pain. Recognition of chondrocalcinosis is important and treatments must be individualised to correct the underlying hypomagnesaemia.', u'/articles/5-875/v1', ['Bone Disorders', 'Neuroscience, Neurology & Psychiatry'], [u'Renal Services, Newcastle upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK', u'Renal Unit, Cumberland Infirmary, Carlisle, UK', u'Institute of Genetic Medicine, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK']]
[u'Intracerebral haemorrhage in Down syndrome: protected or predisposed?', ['Lewis Buss', 'Elizabeth Fisher', 'John Hardy', 'Dean Nizetic', 'Jurgen Groet', 'Laura Pulford', 'Andre Strydom'], u'12 May 2016', u'Down syndrome (DS), which arises from trisomy of chromosome 21, is associated with deposition of large amounts of amyloid within the central nervous system. Amyloid accumulates in two compartments: as plaques within the brain parenchyma and in vessel walls of the cerebral microvasculature. The parenchymal plaque amyloid is thought to result in an early onsetAlzheimer\u2019s disease (AD) dementia, a phenomenon so common amongst people with DS that it could be considered a defining feature of the condition. The amyloid precursor protein (APP) gene lies on chromosome 21 and its presence in three copies in DS is thought to largely drive the early onset AD. In contrast, intracerebral haemorrhage (ICH), the main clinical consequence of vascular amyloidosis, is a more poorly defined feature of DS. We review recent epidemiological data on stroke (including haemorrhagic stroke) in order to make comparisons with a rare form of familial AD due to duplication (i.e. having three copies) of the APP region on chromosome 21, here called \u2018dup-APP\u2019, which is associated with more frequent and severe ICH. We conclude that although people with DS are at increased risk of ICH, this is less common than in dup-APP, suggesting the presence of mechanisms that act protectively. We review these mechanisms and consider comparative research into DS and dup-APP that may yield further pathophysiological insight.', u'/articles/5-876/v1', ['Public Health & Epidemiology', 'Immunology, Microbiology & Infectious Diseases', 'Neuroscience, Neurology & Psychiatry', 'Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology'], [u'Division of Psychiatry, University College London, London, UK', u'Institute of Neurology, University College London, London, UK', u'Lee Kong Chian School of Medicine, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, Singapore', u'Blizard Institute, Barts and the London School of Medicine, Queen Mary, University of London, London, UK', u'London Down Syndrome (LonDownS) Consortium, University College London, London, UK']]
[u'Cell cycle regulated transcription: from yeast to cancer', ['Christopher J. McInerny'], u'12 May 2016', u'Recent studies have revealed exciting new functions for forkhead transcription factors in cell proliferation and development. Cell proliferation is a fundamental process controlled by multiple overlapping mechanisms, and the control of gene expression plays a major role in the orderly and timely division of cells. This occurs through transcription factors regulating the expression of groups of genes at particular phases of the cell division cycle. In this way, the encoded gene products are present when they are required. This review outlines recent advances in our understanding of this process in yeast model systems and describes how this knowledge has informed analysis in more developmentally complex eukaryotes, particularly where it is relevant to human disease.', u'/articles/5-877/v1', ['Immunology, Microbiology & Infectious Diseases', 'Development & Evolution', 'Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology'], [u'School of Life Sciences, University of Glasgow, Scotland, UK']]
[u'Molecular pathogenesis of hepatocellular carcinoma and impact of therapeutic advances', ['Renumathy Dhanasekaran', 'Salome Bandoh', 'Lewis R. Roberts'], u'12 May 2016', u'Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a leading cause of cancer mortality and has an increasing incidence worldwide. HCC can be induced by multiple etiologies, is influenced by many risk factors, and has a complex pathogenesis. Furthermore, HCCs exhibit substantial heterogeneity, which compounds the difficulties in developing effective therapies against this highly lethal cancer. With advances in cancer biology and molecular and genetic profiling, a number of different mechanisms involved in the development and progression of HCC have been identified. Despite the advances in this area, the molecular pathogenesis of hepatocellular carcinoma is still not completely understood. This review aims to elaborate our current understanding of the most relevant genetic alterations and molecular pathways involved in the development and progression of HCC, and anticipate the potential impact of future advances on therapeutic drug development.', u'/articles/5-879/v1', ['Hepatology & Nephrology', 'Endocrinology & Gastroenterology', 'Oncology & Hematology', 'Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology'], [u'Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA', u'Department of Medicine, Korle-Bu Teaching Hospital, Accra, Ghana', u'Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, Rochester, MN, USA']]
[u'Central control of body temperature', ['Shaun F. Morrison'], u'12 May 2016', u'Central neural circuits orchestrate the behavioral and autonomic repertoire that maintains body temperature during environmental temperature challenges and alters body temperature during the inflammatory response and behavioral states and in response to declining energy homeostasis. This review summarizes the central nervous system circuit mechanisms controlling the principal thermoeffectors for body temperature regulation: cutaneous vasoconstriction regulating heat loss and shivering and brown adipose tissue for thermogenesis. The activation of these thermoeffectors is regulated by parallel but distinct efferent pathways within the central nervous system that share a common peripheral thermal sensory input. The model for the neural circuit mechanism underlying central thermoregulatory control provides a useful platform for further understanding of the functional organization of central thermoregulation, for elucidating the hypothalamic circuitry and neurotransmitters involved in body temperature regulation, and for the discovery of novel therapeutic approaches to modulating body temperature and energy homeostasis.', u'/articles/5-880/v1', ['Neuroscience, Neurology & Psychiatry', 'Physiology, Pharmacology & Drug Discovery'], [u'Department of Neurological Surgery, Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, OR, USA']]
[u'Ultraviolet B, melanin and mitochondrial DNA:\xa0Photo-damage in human epidermal keratinocytes and melanocytes\xa0modulated by alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone', ['Markus Bohm', 'Helene Z. Hill'], u'12 May 2016', u'Alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) increases melanogenesis and protects from UV-induced DNA damage. However, its effect on mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) damage is unknown. We have addressed this issue in a pilot study using human epidermal keratinocytes and melanocytes incubated with alpha-MSH and irradiated with UVB. Real-time touchdown PCR was used to quantify total and deleted mtDNA. The deletion detected encompassed the common deletion but was more sensitive to detection. There were 4.4 times more mtDNA copies in keratinocytes than in melanocytes. Irradiation alone did not affect copy numbers. Alpha-MSH slightly increased copy numbers in both cell types in the absence of UVB and caused a similar small decrease in copy number with dose in both cell types. Deleted copies were nearly twice as frequent in keratinocytes as in melanocytes. Alpha-MSH reduced the frequency of deleted copies by half in keratinocytes but not in melanocytes. UVB dose dependently led to an increase in the deleted copy number in alpha-MSH-treated melanocytes. UVB irradiation had little effect on deleted copy number in alpha-MSH-treated keratinocytes. In summary, alpha-MSH enhances mtDNA damage in melanocytes presumably by increased melanogenesis, while \u03b1-MSH is protective in keratinocytes, the more so in the absence of irradiation.', u'/articles/5-881/v1', ['Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology'], [u'Department of Dermatology, University of M\xfcnster, M\xfcnster, Germany', u'Department of Radiology, Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, Newark, NJ, USA']]
