[u'Improving data transparency in clinical trials using blockchain smart contracts', ['Timothy Nugent', 'David Upton', 'Mihai Cimpoesu'], u'20 Oct 2016', u'The scientific credibility of findings from clinical trials can be undermined by a range of problems including missing data, endpoint switching, data dredging, and selective publication. Together, these issues have contributed to systematically distorted perceptions regarding the benefits and risks of treatments. While these issues have been well documented and widely discussed within the profession, legislative intervention has seen limited success. Recently, a method was described for using a blockchain to prove the existence of documents describing pre-specified endpoints in clinical trials. Here, we extend the idea by using smart contracts - code, and data, that resides at a specific address in a blockchain, and whose execution is cryptographically validated by the network - to demonstrate how trust in clinical trials can be enforced and data manipulation eliminated. We show that blockchain smart contracts provide a novel technological solution to the data manipulation problem, by acting as trusted administrators and providing an immutable record of trial history.', u'/articles/5-2541/v1', ['Public Health & Epidemiology'], [u'Corporate Research and Development, Thomson Reuters, London, UK', u'Applied Innovation, Thomson Reuters, London, UK']]
[u'Zika mosquito vectors: the jury is still out', ['Walter S. Leal'], u'20 Oct 2016', u'After a 40-year hiatus, the International Congress of Entomology (ICE 2016) convened in Orlando, Florida (September 25-30, 2016). One of the symposia at ICE 2016, the Zika Symposium, covered multiple aspects of the Zika epidemic, including epidemiology, sexual transmission, genetic tools for reducing transmission, and particularly vector competence. While there was a consensus among participants that the yellow fever mosquito, Aedes aegypti, is a vector of the Zika virus, there is growing evidence indicating that the range of mosquito vectors might be wider than anticipated. In particular, three independent groups from Canada, China, and Brazil presented and discussed laboratory and field data strongly suggesting that the southern house mosquito, Culex quinquefasciatus, also known as the common mosquito, is highly likely to be a vector in certain environments.', u'/articles/5-2546/v1', ['Immunology, Microbiology & Infectious Diseases'], [u'Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, University of California-Davis, Davis, USA']]
[u'dot-app: a Graphviz-Cytoscape conversion plug-in', ['Braxton Fitts', 'Ziran Zhang', 'Massoud Maher', 'Barry Demchak'], u'20 Oct 2016', u'dot-app is a Cytoscape 3 app that allows Cytoscape to import and export Graphviz (*.dot, *.gv) files, also known as DOT files due to the *.dot extension and their conformance to the DOT language syntax. The DOT format was originally created in the early 2000s to represent graph topologies, layouts and formatting. DOT-encoded files are produced and consumed by a number of open-source graph applications, including GraphViz, Gephi, neato, smyrna, and others. While DOT-based graph applications are popular, they emphasize general graph layout and styling over the topological and semantic analysis functions available in domain-focused applications such as Cytoscape. While domain-focused applications have easy access to large networks (10,000 to 100,000 nodes) and advanced analysis and formatting, they do not offer all of the styling options that DOT-based applications (particularly GraphViz) do. dot-app enables the interchange of networks between Cytoscape and DOT-based applications so that users can benefit from the features of both. dot-app was first deployed to the Cytoscape App Store in August 2015, has since registered more than 1,200 downloads, and has been highly rated by more than 20 users.', u'/articles/5-2543/v1', ['Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology'], [u'Department of Computer Science and Engineering, UC San Diego, San Diego, USA', u'Department of Health Sciences, UC San Diego, San Diego, USA']]
