[u'Unit testing, model validation, and biological simulation', ['Gopal P. Sarma', 'Travis W. Jacobs', 'Mark D. Watts', 'S. Vahid Ghayoomie', 'Stephen D. Larson', 'Richard C. Gerkin'], u'10 Aug 2016', u'The growth of the software industry has gone hand in hand with the development\xa0of tools and cultural practices for ensuring the reliability of complex pieces\xa0of software. These tools and practices are now acknowledged to be essential to\xa0the management of modern software. As computational models and methods have\xa0become increasingly common in the biological sciences, it is important to examine\xa0how these practices can accelerate biological software development and improve\xa0research quality. In this article, we give a focused case study of our experience\xa0with the practices of unit testing and test-driven development in OpenWorm, an\xa0open-science project aimed at modeling Caenorhabditis elegans. We identify and\xa0discuss the challenges of incorporating test-driven development into a heterogeneous,\xa0data-driven project, as well as the role of model validation tests, a category\xa0of tests unique to software which expresses scientific models.', u'/articles/5-1946/v1', ['Neuroscience, Neurology & Psychiatry', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology'], [u'School of Medicine, Emory University, Atlanta, USA', u'Department of Bioengineering, Imperial College London, London, UK', u'The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, USA', u'Laboratory of Systems Biology and Bioinformatics, University of Tehran, Tehran, Iran', u'School of Life Sciences, Arizona State University, Tempe, USA', u'OpenWorm Foundation, Boston, USA']]
[u'A multi-scale computational model of the effects of TMS on motor cortex', ['Hyeon Seo', 'Natalie Schaworonkow', 'Sung Chan Jun', 'Jochen Triesch'], u'10 Aug 2016', u'The detailed biophysical mechanisms through which transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) activates cortical circuits are still not fully understood. Here we present a multi-scale computational model to describe and explain the activation of different cell types in motor cortex due to transcranial magnetic stimulation. Our model determines precise electric fields based on an individual head model derived from magnetic resonance imaging and calculates how these electric fields activate morphologically detailed models of different neuron types. We predict detailed neural activation patterns for different coil orientations consistent with experimental findings. Beyond this, our model allows us to predict activation thresholds for individual neurons and precise initiation sites of individual action potentials on the neurons\u2019 complex morphologies. Specifically, our model predicts that cortical layer 3 pyramidal neurons are generally easier to stimulate than layer 5 pyramidal neurons, thereby explaining the lower stimulation thresholds observed for I-waves compared to D-waves. It also predicts differences in the regions of activated cortical layer 5 and layer 3 pyramidal cells depending on coil orientation. Finally, it predicts that under standard stimulation conditions, action potentials are mostly generated at the axon initial segment of corctial pyramidal cells, with a much less important activation site being the part of a layer 5 pyramidal cell axon where it crosses the boundary between grey matter and white matter. In conclusion, our computational model offers a detailed account of the mechanisms through which TMS activates different cortical cell types, paving the way for more targeted application of TMS based on individual brain morphology in clinical and basic research settings.', u'/articles/5-1945/v1', ['Neuroscience, Neurology & Psychiatry', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology'], [u'School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Gwangju Institute of Science and Technology, Gwangju, Korea, South', u'Frankfurt Institute for Advanced Studies, Frankfurt am Main, Germany']]
