[u'Open discectomy vs microdiscectomy for lumbar disc herniation - a protocol for a pragmatic comparative effectiveness study', ['Andreas Srlie', 'Sasha Gulati', 'Charalampis Giannadakis', 'Sven M. Carlsen', 'yvind Salvesen', 'ystein P. Nygaard', 'Tore K. Solberg'], u'02 Sep 2016', u'Introduction:\xa0\r\nSince the introduction of lumbar microdiscectomy in the 1970\u2019s, many studies have attempted to compare the effectiveness of this method with that of standard open discectomy with conflicting results. This observational study is designed to compare the relative effectiveness of microdiscectomy (MD) with open discectomy (OD) for treating lumbar disc herniation, -within a large cohort, recruited from daily clinical practice.\nMethods and analysis: \xa0\r\nThis study will include patients registered in the Norwegian Registry for Spine Surgery (NORspine). This clinical registry collects prospective data, including preoperative and postoperative outcome measures as well as individual and demographic parameters. The primary outcome is change in Oswestry disability index between baseline and 12 months after surgery. Secondary outcome measures are improvement of leg pain and changes in health related quality of life measured by the Euro-Qol-5D between baseline and 12 months after surgery, complications to surgery, duration of surgical procedures and length of hospital stay.', u'/articles/5-2170/v1', ['Public Health & Epidemiology', 'Neuroscience, Neurology & Psychiatry'], [u'The Norwegian National Registry for Spine Surgery (NORspine), University Hospital of North Norway (UNN), Troms\xf8, Norway', u'Department of Neurosurgery, University Hospital of North Norway (UNN), Troms\xf8, Norway', u'Department of Neurosurgery, St. Olavs University Hospital, Trondheim, Norway', u'National Advisory Unit on Spinal Surgery, Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU), Trondheim, Norway', u'Department of Neuroscience, Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU), Trondheim, Norway', u'Department of Cancer Research and Molecular Medicine, Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU), Trondheim, Norway', u'Department of Endocrinology, St. Olavs University Hospital, Trondheim, Norway', u'Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Troms\xf8, Troms\xf8, Norway']]
[u'Opportunities and considerations for visualising neuroimaging data on very large displays', ['Matthew B. Wall', 'David Birch', 'May Y. Yong'], u'02 Sep 2016', u'Neuroimaging experiments can generate impressive volumes of data and many images of the results. This is particularly true of multi-modal imaging studies that use more than one imaging technique, or when imaging is combined with other assessments. A challenge for these studies is appropriate visualisation of results in order to drive insights and guide accurate interpretations. Next-generation visualisation technology therefore has much to offer the neuroimaging community. One example is the Imperial College London Data Observatory; a high-resolution (132 megapixel) arrangement of 64 monitors, arranged in a 313 degree arc, with a 6 metre diameter, powered by 32 rendering nodes. This system has the potential for high-resolution, large-scale display of disparate data types in a space designed to promote collaborative discussion by multiple researchers and/or clinicians. Opportunities for the use of the Data Observatory are discussed, with particular reference to applications in Multiple Sclerosis (MS) research and clinical practice. Technical issues and current work designed to optimise the use of the Data Observatory for neuroimaging are also discussed, as well as possible future research that could be enabled by the use of the system in combination with eye-tracking technology.', u'/articles/5-2157/v1', ['Neuroscience, Neurology & Psychiatry'], [u'Imanova Centre for Imaging Sciences, London, W12 0NN, UK', u'Division of Brain Sciences, Imperial College London, London, SW7 2AZ, UK', u'Clinical Psychopharmacology Unit, University College London, London, WC1E 7HB, UK', u'Data Science Institute, Imperial College London, London, SW7 2AZ, UK']]
[u'Analysis of morphine responses in mice reveals a QTL on Chromosome 7', ['Wim E. Crusio', 'Esha Dhawan', 'Elissa J. Chesler', 'Anna Delprato'], u'02 Sep 2016', u'In this study we identified a quantitative trait locus (QTL) on mouse Chromosome 7 associated with locomotor activity and rearing post morphine treatment. This QTL was revealed after correcting for the effects of another QTL peak on Chromosome 10 using composite interval mapping. The positional candidate genes are Syt9 and Ppfibp2. Several other genes within the interval are linked to neural processes, locomotor activity, and the defensive response to harmful stimuli.', u'/articles/5-2156/v1', ['Neuroscience, Neurology & Psychiatry'], [u"Institut de Neurosciences Cognitives et Int\xe9gratives d'Aquitaine, UMR 5287, University of Bordeaux, Pessac cedex, France", u"Institut de Neurosciences Cognitives et Int\xe9gratives d'Aquitaine, UMR 5287, CNRS, Pessac, France", u'Lambert High School, Suwanee, USA', u'BioScience Project, Wakefield, USA', u'Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, USA']]
