[u'Substance use during pregnancy', ['Ariadna Forray'], u'13 May 2016', u'Prenatal substance use is a critical public health concern that is linked with several harmful maternal and fetal consequences. The most frequently used substance in pregnancy is tobacco, followed by alcohol, cannabis and other illicit substances. Unfortunately, polysubstance use in pregnancy is common, as well as psychiatric comorbidity, environmental stressors, and limited and disrupted parental care, all of which can compound deleterious maternal and fetal outcomes. There are few existing treatments for prenatal substance use and these mainly comprise behavioral and psychosocial interventions. Contingency management has been shown to be the most efficacious of these. The purpose of this review is to examine the recent literature on the prenatal use of tobacco, alcohol, cannabis, stimulants, and opioids, including the effects of these on maternal and fetal health and the current therapeutic options.', u'/articles/5-887/v1', ['Public Health & Epidemiology', 'Neuroscience, Neurology & Psychiatry', 'Physiology, Pharmacology & Drug Discovery', 'Urology, Gynecology & Obstetrics'], [u'Department of Psychiatry, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA']]
[u'Priority regions for research on dryland cereals and legumes', ['Glenn Hyman', 'Elizabeth Barona', 'Chandrashekhar Biradar', 'Edward Guevara', 'John Dixon', 'Steve Beebe', 'Silvia Elena Castano', 'Tunrayo Alabi', 'Murali Krishna Gumma', 'Shoba Sivasankar', 'Ovidio Rivera', 'Herlin Espinosa', 'Jorge Cardona'], u'13 May 2016', u'Dryland cereals and legumes \xa0are important crops in farming systems across the world.\xa0 Yet they are frequently neglected among the priorities for international agricultural research and development, often due to lack of information on their magnitude and extent. Given what we know about the global distribution of dryland cereals and legumes, what regions should be high priority for research and development to improve livelihoods and food security? This research evaluated the geographic dimensions of these crops and the farming systems where they are found worldwide. The study employed geographic information science and data to assess the key farming systems and regions for these crops. Dryland cereal and legume crops should be given high priority in 18 farming systems worldwide, where their cultivated area comprises more than 160 million ha. These regions include the dryer areas of South Asia, West and East Africa, the Middle East and North Africa, Central America and other parts of Asia. These regions are prone to drought and heat stress, have limiting soil constraints, make up half of the global population and account for 60 percent of the global poor and malnourished. The dryland cereal and legume crops and farming systems merit more research and development attention to improve productivity and address development problems. This project developed an open access dataset and information resource that provides the basis for future analysis of the geographic dimensions of dryland cereals and legumes.', u'/articles/5-885/v1', ['Public Health & Epidemiology', 'Plant Biology, Ecology & Environmental Sciences'], [u'International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT), Cali, Colombia', u'Independent Researcher, Miami, USA', u'International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA), Beirut, Lebanon', u'Australian Centre for International Agricultural Research, Canberra, Australia', u'International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA), Ibadan, Nigeria', u'International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), Patancheru, India']]
[u'A cloud-based learning environment for comparing RNA-seq aligners', ['Elizabeth Baskin', 'Peter DeFord', 'Allison F. Dennis', 'Ian Misner', 'Frederick J. Tan', 'Ben Busby'], u'13 May 2016', u'The rapid rise of high-throughput, data intensive experimental techniques has thrust many biologists into the role of data analyst \u2013 a role many biologists feel ill equipped to fill. Novices often struggle to find the resources and expertise they need to analyze their experimental results in a wet-lab environment. To fill this need, we developed an educational resource as part of a National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) hackathon. Using RNA-seq as a model, our tutorial guides new users through the steps of data analysis, while placing an emphasis on understanding the motivation behind choices made in the process. To advance the goal of providing a deeper understanding of the analysis process, we developed a new tool, bamDiff. bamDiff allows users to compare the performance of multiple RNA-seq aligners, allowing users to select the most appropriate aligner for the data in question and experimental end-goal. Our tutorial is accessible via a GitHub wiki, with associated data and software provided on an Amazon Machine Image (AMI), which can be completed at no cost to the user through the Amazon Educate Program. Following the hackathon, our tutorial was integrated into the October 2015 offering of NCBI NOW (Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) Online Workshop) a free online experience targeting individuals new to NGS analysis.', u'/articles/5-888/v1', ['Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology'], [u'Translational Genetics and Genomics Unit, National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, USA', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, USA', u'Program in Genomics of Differentiation, National Institute of Child and Human Development, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, USA', u'Bioinformatics and Computational Biosciences Branch, Office of Cyber Infrastructure and Computational Biology, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, USA', u'Department of Embryology, Carnegie Institution of Washington, Baltimore, USA', u'National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI), National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, USA']]
[u'Sequestering seawater on land: a water-based solution to global issues', ['Stephane Boyer', 'Marie-Caroline Lefort'], u'13 May 2016', u'The \u2018surplus\u2019 of oceanic water generated by climate change offers an unprecedented opportunity to tackle a number of global issues through a very pragmatic process: shifting the excess water from the oceans onto the land. Here we propose that sea-level rise could be mitigated through the desalination of very large amounts of seawater in massive desalination plants. To efficiently mitigate sea-level rise, desalinized water could be stored on land in the form of crop, wetlands or new forests. Based on a US$ 500 million price to build an individual mega desalination plant with current technology, the cost of controlling current sea-level rise through water desalination approaches US$ 23 trillion. However, the economic, environmental and health benefits would also be immense and could contribute to addressing a number of global issues including sea-level rise, food security, biodiversity loss and climate change. Because these issues are intimately intertwined, responses should aim at addressing them all concurrently and at global scale.', u'/articles/5-889/v1', ['Plant Biology, Ecology & Environmental Sciences'], [u'Environmental and Animal Sciences, Unitec Institute of Technology, Auckland, New Zealand', u'Bio-Protection Research Centre, Lincoln University, Lincoln, New Zealand']]
