[u'Validation of syngeneic mouse models of melanoma and non-small cell lung cancer for investigating the anticancer effects of the soy-derived peptide Lunasin', ['Bharat Devapatla', 'Chris Shidal', 'Kavitha Yaddanapudi', 'Keith R. Davis'], u'04 Oct 2016', u'Background: Lunasin is a naturally occurring peptide present in soybean that has both chemopreventive and therapeutic activities that can prevent cellular transformation and inhibit the growth of several human cancer types. Recent studies indicate that Lunasin has several distinct potential modes of action including suppressing integrin signaling and epigenetic effects driven by modulation of histone acetylation. In addition to direct effects on cancer cells, Lunasin also has effects on innate immunity that may contribute to its ability to inhibit tumor growth in vivo.\nMethods: Standard assays for cell proliferation and colony formation were used to assess Lunasin\u2019s in vitro activity against murine Lewis lung carcinoma (LLC) and B16-F0 melanoma cells.\xa0 Lunasin\u2019s in vivo activity was assessed by comparing the growth of tumors initiated by subcutaneous implantation of LLC or B16-F0 cells in Lunasin-treated and untreated C57BL/6 mice.\nResults: Lunasin was found to inhibit growth of murine LLC cells and murine B16-F0 melanoma cells in vitro and in wild-type C57BL/6 mice.\xa0 The effects of Lunasin in these two mouse models were very similar to those previously observed in studies of human non-small cell lung cancer and melanoma cell lines.\nConclusions: We have now validated two established syngeneic mouse models as being responsive to Lunasin treatment.\xa0 The validation of these two in vivo syngeneic models will allow detailed studies on the combined therapeutic and immune effects of Lunasin in a fully immunocompetent mouse model.', u'/articles/5-2432/v1', ['Oncology & Hematology', 'Plant Biology, Ecology & Environmental Sciences', 'Physiology, Pharmacology & Drug Discovery'], [u'Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Louisville School of Medicine, , Louisville, KY, 40402, USA', u'Department of Medicine and James Graham Brown Cancer Center, University of Louisville School of Medicine, Louisville, KY, 40402, USA', u'Biology Department and Biotechnology Program, Indiana University, Bloomington, IN, 47405, USA']]
[u'First visual record of rare purple dogwhelks (Nucella lapillus) on the Atlantic coast of Nova Scotia, Canada', ['Sonja M. Ehlers', 'Julius A. Ellrich'], u'04 Oct 2016', u'The dogwhelk Nucella lapillus is a rocky intertidal gastropod of the North Atlantic coast. Individual shell color varies. Common colors range between white and brown, with darker dogwhelks being more affected by heat stress than lighter-colored conspecifics. Other reported shell colors are black, mauve, pink, yellow, and orange from European coasts, red and grey from the Bay of Fundy coast of New Brunswick and Nova Scotia (Canada), and purple, black, gray, yellow, and orange from the coasts of Maine and Massachusetts (USA), with purple being considered as a rare color. On the Atlantic coast of Nova Scotia, dogwhelks are active from April until November, but information on dogwhelk shell color is missing for this coast. On 16 June 2016, we found two purple dogwhelks in the mid-to-high intertidal zone of a moderately wave-exposed rocky shore near Duncans\xa0Cove, on the Atlantic coast of Nova Scotia while collecting dogwhelks (n= 1000) for manipulative field experiments. All other dogwhelks collected on that day were of common white and brown colors. During earlier dogwhelk collections in Atlantic Nova Scotia (between 2011-2013) and field surveys in Duncans Cove (between 2014-2016), we did not find any purple dogwhelks, indicating the rareness of this color in that region. Interestingly, the purple dogwhelks were detected on a relatively cool day (12.3 \xb1 0.4 \xb0C, mean \xb1 se, n= 96 temperature measurements) compared to the intertidal temperatures of all other survey days (\u2265 18.2 \xb1 0.5 \xb0C), suggesting that purple dogwhelks may find it less thermally stressful to venture out of crevices and macroalgal cover under relatively cool temperatures. Our observations provide the first visual record of rare purple dogwhelks on the Atlantic coast of Nova Scotia, Canada.', u'/articles/5-2435/v1', ['Plant Biology, Ecology & Environmental Sciences'], [u'St. Francis Xavier University, Antigonish, Canada']]
