[u'Recent advances in understanding idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis', ['Cecile  Daccord', 'Toby M. Maher'], u'31 May 2016', u'Despite major research efforts leading to the recent approval of pirfenidone and nintedanib, the dismal prognosis of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) remains unchanged. The elaboration of international diagnostic criteria and disease stratification models based on clinical, physiological, radiological, and histopathological features has improved the accuracy of IPF diagnosis and prediction of mortality risk. Nevertheless, given the marked heterogeneity in clinical phenotype and the considerable overlap of IPF with other fibrotic interstitial lung diseases (ILDs), about 10% of cases of pulmonary fibrosis remain unclassifiable. Moreover, currently available tools fail to detect early IPF, predict the highly variable course of the disease, and assess response to antifibrotic drugs.\r\n\xa0\r\nRecent advances in understanding the multiple interrelated pathogenic pathways underlying IPF have identified various molecular phenotypes resulting from complex interactions among genetic, epigenetic, transcriptional, post-transcriptional, metabolic, and environmental factors. These different disease endotypes appear to confer variable susceptibility to the condition, differing risks of rapid progression, and, possibly, altered responses to therapy. The development and validation of diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers are necessary to enable a more precise and earlier diagnosis of IPF and to improve prediction of future disease behaviour. The availability of approved antifibrotic therapies together with potential new drugs currently under evaluation also highlights the need for biomarkers able to predict and assess treatment responsiveness, thereby allowing individualised treatment based on risk of progression and drug response. This approach of disease stratification and personalised medicine is already used in the routine management of many cancers and provides a potential road map for guiding clinical care in IPF.', u'/articles/5-1046/v1', ['Cardiopulmonary & Vascular Disorders', 'Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology', 'Physiology, Pharmacology & Drug Discovery'], [u'Interstitial Lung Disease Unit, Royal Brompton and Harefield NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK', u'Respiratory Medicine Department, Lausanne University Hospital, Lausanne, Switzerland', u'NIHR Respiratory Biomedical Research Unit, Royal Brompton Hospital, London, UK', u'Fibrosis Research Group, Imperial College, London, UK']]
[u'Advancing cardiovascular tissue engineering', ['George A. Truskey'], u'31 May 2016', u'Cardiovascular tissue engineering offers the promise of biologically based repair of injured and damaged blood vessels, valves, and cardiac tissue. Major advances in cardiovascular tissue engineering over the past few years involve improved methods to promote the establishment and differentiation of induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs), scaffolds from decellularized tissue that may produce more highly differentiated tissues and advance clinical translation, improved methods to promote vascularization, and novel in vitro microphysiological systems to model normal and diseased tissue function. iPSC technology holds great promise, but robust methods are needed to further promote differentiation. Differentiation can be further enhanced with chemical, electrical, or mechanical stimuli.', u'/articles/5-1045/v1', ['Cardiopulmonary & Vascular Disorders', 'Development & Evolution', 'Oncology & Hematology', 'Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology', 'Physiology, Pharmacology & Drug Discovery'], [u'Department of Biochemical Engineering, Duke University, Durham, NC, USA']]
[u'Recent advances in managing and understanding diabetic nephropathy', ['Sydney C.W. Tang', 'Gary C.W. Chan', 'Kar Neng Lai'], u'31 May 2016', u'Diabetic nephropathy is the commonest cause of end-stage renal disease in most developed economies. Current standard of care for diabetic nephropathy embraces stringent blood pressure control via blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system and glycemia control. Recent understanding of the pathophysiology of diabetic nephropathy has led to the development of novel therapeutic options. This review article focuses on available data from landmark studies on the main therapeutic approaches and highlights some novel management strategies.', u'/articles/5-1044/v1', ['Cardiopulmonary & Vascular Disorders', 'Hepatology & Nephrology', 'Endocrinology & Gastroenterology', 'Physiology, Pharmacology & Drug Discovery'], [u'Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, Queen Mary Hospital, Pokfulam, Hong Kong', u'Nephrology Department, Hong Kong Sanatorium and Hospital, Happy Valley, Hong Kong']]
[u'Teaching and learning based on peer review: a realistic approach in forensic sciences', ['Ricardo Jorge Dinis-Oliveira', 'Teresa Magalhaes'], u'31 May 2016', u'Teaching and learning methods need a continuous upgrade in higher education. However it is also true that some of the modern methodologies do not reduce or prevent school failure. Perhaps the real limitation is the inability to identify the true reasons that may explain it or ignore/undervalue the problem. In our opinion, one of the current constraints of the teaching/learning process is the excess of and inadequate bibliography recommended by the teacher, which results in continuous student difficulties and waste of time in searching and selecting useful information. The need to change the paradigm of the teaching/learning process comes also from employers. They claim forensic experts armed with useful knowledge to face professional life. It is therefore mandatory to identify the new needs and opportunities regarding pedagogical methodologies. This article reflects on the recent importance of peer review in teaching/learning forensic sciences based on the last 10 years of pedagogical experience inseparably from the scientific activity.', u'/articles/5-1048/v1', ['Publishing, Education & Communication'], [u'Department of Legal Medicine and Forensic Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, University of Porto, Porto, 4200-319, Portugal', u'Department of Sciences, IINFACTS - Institute of Research and Advanced Training in Health Sciences and Technologies, University Institute of Health Sciences (IUCS), CESPU, CRL, Gandra, 4585-116, Portugal', u'Department of Biological Sciences, UCIBIO-REQUIMTE, Laboratory of Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Porto, Porto, 4050-313, Portugal']]
