[u'Approaches to R education in Canadian universities', ['Michael A. Carson', 'Nathan Basiliko'], u'30 Nov 2016', u'Introduction: R language is a powerful tool used in a wide array of research disciplines and owes a large amount of its success to its open source and adaptable nature. The popularity of R has grown rapidly over the past two decades and the number of users and packages is increasing at a near exponential rate. This rapid growth has prompted a number of formal and informal online and text resources, the volume of which is beginning to present challenges to novices learning R. Students are often first exposed to R in upper division undergraduate classes or during their graduate studies. The way R is presented likely has consequences for the fundamental understanding of the program and language itself; user comprehension of R may be better if learning the language itself followed by conducting analyses, compared to someone who is learning another subject (e.g. statistics) using R for the first time. Consequently, an understanding of the approaches to R education is critical. Methods: To establish how students are exposed to R, we used a survey to evaluate the current use in Canadian university courses, including the context in which R is presented and the types of uses of R in the classroom. Additionally, we looked at the reasons professors either do or don\u2019t use/teach R. Results: We found that R is used in a broad range of course disciplines beyond statistics (e.g. ecology) and just over one half of Canadian universities have at least one course that uses R. Discussion and Conclusions: Developing programming-literate students is of utmost importance and our hope is that this benchmark study will influence how post-secondary educators, as well as other programmers, approach R, specifically when developing educational and supplemental content in online, text, and package-specific formats aiding in student\u2019s comprehension of the R language.', u'/articles/5-2802/v1', ['Publishing, Education & Communication'], [u'Department of Biology and the Vale Living with Lakes Centre, Laurentian University, Sudbury, Canada']]
[u'The impact of wearing single vision soft contact lenses on the peripheral refractive error', ['Kareem Allinjawi', 'Sharanjeet Kaur', 'Saadah Mohamed  Akhir', 'Haliza Abdul Mutalib'], u'30 Nov 2016', u'Aim: The purpose of this study was to determine the changes in the relative peripheral refractive error produced by soft single vision contact lenses in myopic schoolchildren.\nMethods: 27 myopic schoolchildren aged between 13 to 15 years were included in this study. The measurements of central and peripheral refraction were made only on the right eye using a Grand-Seiko WR-5100K open-field autorefractometer without contact lens (WL), and with wearing single vision contact lens (SVCL). Refractive power was measured at center and horizontal eccentricity between 35\xb0 temporal to 35\xb0 nasal visual field (in 5\xb0 steps).\nResults: SVCL showed an increase in peripheral hyperopic defocus at the nasal and temporal visual field compare with baseline, but this change was not statistically significant (p=0.129).\nConclusion: Wearing single vision soft contact lenses increases the relative peripheral hyperopic defocus in myopic schoolchildren.', u'/articles/5-2803/v1', ['Eye Disorders & ENT'], [u'Faculty of Health Science, University Kebangsaan Malaysia, Jalan Raja Muda Abdul Aziz, Kuala Lumpur, 50300, Malaysia']]
