[u'Statin-induced diabetes: incidence, mechanisms, and implications', ['Om P. Ganda'], u'24 Jun 2016', u'Persuasive data from many randomized controlled trials and large, long-term observational studies indicate a modestly increased risk for the emergence of new diabetes after statin initiation. Several meta-analyses of many statin trials as well as longitudinal population-based studies suggest that the risk factors for diabetes in statin-treated persons include underlying risk for diabetes at baseline (specifically features of metabolic syndrome), the intensity of statin therapy, certain genetic traits independent of diabetes risk, and adherence to lifestyle factors. Limited data suggest statins modestly worsen hyperglycemia and A1c levels in those with pre-existing diabetes or glucose intolerance. The precise mechanism(s) of diabetogenesis with statin therapy are unclear, but impaired insulin sensitivity and compromised \u03b2 cell function via enhanced intracellular cholesterol uptake due to inhibition of intracellular cholesterol synthesis by statins, as well as other mechanisms, may be involved. Furthermore, while statins are known to have anti-inflammatory effects, it is hypothesized that, under dysmetabolic conditions, they might have pro-inflammatory effects via induction of certain inflammasomes. This concept requires further elucidation in the human. Finally, it is clear that the risk\u2013benefit ratio for cardiovascular disease events is strongly in favor of statin therapy in those at risk, despite the emergence of new diabetes. Adherence to lifestyle regimen is critical in the prevention of new diabetes on statins.', u'/articles/5-1499/v1', ['Cardiopulmonary & Vascular Disorders', 'Endocrinology & Gastroenterology', 'Physiology, Pharmacology & Drug Discovery'], [u'Clinical Research and Adult Diabetes Sections, Joslin Diabetes Center, Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA']]
[u'Recent advances in understanding ichthyosis pathogenesis', ['Nareh V. Marukian', 'Keith A. Choate'], u'24 Jun 2016', u'The ichthyoses, also known as disorders of keratinization (DOK), encompass a heterogeneous group of skin diseases linked by the common finding of abnormal barrier function, which initiates a default compensatory pathway of hyperproliferation, resulting in the characteristic clinical manifestation of localized and/or generalized scaling. Additional cutaneous findings frequently seen in ichthyoses include generalized xerosis, erythroderma, palmoplantar keratoderma, hypohydrosis, and recurrent infections. In 2009, the Ichthyosis Consensus Conference established a classification consensus\xa0for DOK based on pathophysiology, clinical manifestations, and mode of inheritance. This nomenclature system divides DOK into two main groups: nonsyndromic forms, with clinical findings limited to the skin, and syndromic forms, with involvement of additional organ systems. Advances in next-generation sequencing technology have allowed for more rapid and cost-effective genetic analysis, leading to the identification of novel, rare mutations that cause DOK, many of which represent phenotypic expansion. This review focuses on new findings in syndromic and nonsyndromic ichthyoses, with emphasis on novel genetic discoveries that provide insight into disease pathogenesis.', u'/articles/5-1497/v1', ['Bone Disorders', 'Immunology, Microbiology & Infectious Diseases', 'Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology', 'Dermatology', 'Physiology, Pharmacology & Drug Discovery'], [u'Department of Dermatology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, 06511, USA', u'Department of Genetics, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, 06511, USA', u'Department of Pathology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, 06511, USA']]
[u'Models of intestinal infection by Salmonella enterica: introduction of a new neonate mouse model', ['Marc Schulte', 'Michael Hensel'], u'24 Jun 2016', u'Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium is a foodborne pathogen causing inflammatory disease in the intestine following diarrhea and is responsible for thousands of deaths worldwide. Many in vitro investigations using cell culture models are available, but these do not represent the real natural environment present in the intestine of infected hosts. Several in vivo animal models have been used to study the host-pathogen interaction and to unravel the immune responses and cellular processes occurring during infection. An animal model for Salmonella-induced intestinal inflammation relies on the pretreatment of mice with streptomycin. This model is of great importance but still shows limitations to investigate the host-pathogen interaction in the small intestine in vivo. Here, we review the use of mouse models for Salmonella infections and focus on a new small animal model using 1-day-old neonate mice. The neonate model enables researchers to observe infection of both the small and large intestine, thereby offering perspectives for new experimental approaches, as well as to analyze the Salmonella-enterocyte interaction in the small intestine in vivo.', u'/articles/5-1498/v1', ['Public Health & Epidemiology', 'Immunology, Microbiology & Infectious Diseases', 'Development & Evolution'], [u'Department of Microbiology, University of Osnabr\xfcck, Osnabr\xfcck, Germany']]
[u'Bioconductor workflow for microbiome data analysis: from raw reads to community analyses', ['Ben J. Callahan', 'Kris Sankaran', 'Julia A. Fukuyama', 'Paul J. McMurdie', 'Susan P. Holmes'], u'24 Jun 2016', u'High-throughput sequencing of PCR-amplified taxonomic markers (like the 16S rRNA gene) has enabled a new level of analysis of complex bacterial communities known as microbiomes. Many tools exist to quantify and compare abundance levels or microbial composition of communities in different conditions. The sequencing reads have to be denoised and assigned to the closest taxa from a reference database. Common approaches use a notion of 97% similarity and normalize the data by subsampling to equalize library sizes. In this paper, we show that statistical models allow more accurate abundance estimates. By providing a complete workflow in R, we enable the user to do sophisticated downstream statistical analyses, including both parameteric and nonparametric methods. We provide examples of using the R\xa0packages dada2, phyloseq, DESeq2, ggplot2 and vegan to filter, visualize and test microbiome data. We also provide examples of supervised analyses using random forests, partial least squares and linear models as well as nonparametric testing using community networks and the ggnetwork package.', u'/articles/5-1492/v1', ['Public Health & Epidemiology', 'Immunology, Microbiology & Infectious Diseases', 'Development & Evolution', 'Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology', 'Physiology, Pharmacology & Drug Discovery'], [u'Statistics Department, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, 94305, USA', u'Whole Biome Inc., San Francisco, CA, 94107, USA']]
[u'Tourette syndrome research highlights 2015', ['Cheryl A. Richards', 'Kevin J. Black'], u'24 Jun 2016', u'We present selected highlights from research that appeared during 2015\xa0on Tourette syndrome and other tic disorders. Topics include phenomenology, comorbidities,\xa0developmental course, genetics, animal models, neuroimaging, electrophysiology,\xa0pharmacology, and treatment. We briefly summarize articles whose\xa0results we believe may lead to new treatments, additional research or modifications\xa0in current models of TS.', u'/articles/5-1493/v1', ['Neuroscience, Neurology & Psychiatry', 'Physiology, Pharmacology & Drug Discovery'], [u'Department of Psychiatry, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri, USA', u'Department of Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri, USA', u'Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri, USA', u'Department of Radiology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri, USA', u'Department of Neuroscience, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri, USA']]
