[u'A collection of annotated and harmonized human breast cancer transcriptome datasets, including immunologic classification', ['Jessica Roelands', 'Julie Decock', 'Sabri Boughorbel', 'Darawan Rinchai', 'Cristina Maccalli', 'Michele Ceccarelli', 'Michael Black', 'Chris Print', 'Jeff Chou', 'Scott Presnell', 'Charlie Quinn', 'Puthen Jithesh', 'Najeeb Syed', 'Salha B.J. Al Bader', 'Shahinaz Bedri', 'Ena Wang', 'Francesco M. Marincola', 'Damien Chaussabel', 'Peter Kuppen', 'Lance D. Miller', 'Davide Bedognetti', 'Wouter Hendrickx'], u'20 Mar 2017', u'The increased application of high-throughput approaches in translational research has expanded the number of publicly available data repositories. Gathering additional valuable information contained in the datasets represents a crucial opportunity in the biomedical field. To facilitate and stimulate utilization of these datasets, we have recently developed an interactive data browsing and visualization web application, the Gene Expression Browser (GXB). In this note, we describe a curated compendium of 13 public datasets on human breast cancer, representing a total of 2142 transcriptome profiles. We classified the samples according to different immune based classification systems and integrated this information into the datasets. Annotated and harmonized datasets were uploaded to GXB. Study samples were categorized in different groups based on their immunologic tumor response profiles, intrinsic molecular subtypes and multiple clinical parameters. Ranked gene lists were generated based on relevant group comparisons. In this data note, we demonstrate the utility of GXB to evaluate the expression of a gene of interest, find differential gene expression between groups and investigate potential associations between variables with a specific focus on immunologic classification in breast cancer. This interactive resource is publicly available online at: http://breastcancer.gxbsidra.org/dm3/geneBrowser/list.', u'/articles/6-296/v1', ['Publishing, Education & Communication', 'Oncology & Hematology', 'Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology'], [u'Tumor Biology, Immunology and Therapy section, Sidra Medical and Research Center, Doha, Qatar', u'Qatar Biomedical Research Institute, Hamad Bin Khalifa University, Qatar Foundation, Doha, Qatar', u'Systems Biology Department, Sidra Medical and Research Center, Doha, Qatar', u'Qatar Computing Research Institute, Doha, Qatar', u'Department of Biochemistry, Otago School of Medical Sciences, University of Otago, Dunedin, 9054, New Zealand', u'Department of Molecular Medicine and Pathology and Maurice Wilkins Institute, Faculty of Medical and Health Sciences, The University of Auckland, Auckland, 1142, New Zealand', u'Department of Cancer Biology, Wake Forest School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC, 27101, USA', u'Benaroya Research Institute at Virginia Mason, Seattle, WA, 98101, USA', u'Translational Bioinformatics, Division of Biomedical Informatics Research, Sidra Medical and Research Center, Doha, Qatar', u'Technical Bioinformatics team, Biomedical Informatics Division, Sidra Medical and Research Center, Doha, Qatar', u'National Center for Cancer Care and Research (NCCCR), Hamad General Hospital, Doha, Qatar', u'Weill Cornell Medicine - Qatar, Doha, Qatar', u'Division of Translational Medicine, Research Branch, Sidra Medical and Research Center, Doha, Qatar', u'Office of the Chief Research Officer (CRO), Research Branch, Sidra Medical and Research Center, Doha, Qatar', u'Department of Surgery, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, 2333 ZA, Netherlands']]
