[u'An ELISA DYRK1A non-radioactive assay suitable for the characterization of inhibitors', ['Yong Liu', 'Tatyana Adayev', 'Yu-Wen Hwang'], u'13 Jan 2017', u'The DYRK1A (dual specificity tyrosine phosphorylation-regulated kinase 1A) gene encodes a proline-directed Ser/Thr kinase. Elevated expression and/or altered distribution of the kinase have been implicated in the neurological impairments associated with Down syndrome (DS) and Alzheimer\u2019s disease (AD). Consequently, DYRK1A inhibition has been of significant interest as a potential strategy for therapeutic intervention of DS and AD. Many classes of novel inhibitors have been described in the past decade. Although non-radioactive methods for analyzing DYRK1A inhibition have been developed, methods employing radioactive tracers are still commonly used for quantitative characterization of DYRK1A inhibitors. Here, we present a non-radioactive ELISA assay based on the detection of DYRK1A-phosphorylated dynamin 1a fragment using a phosphorylation site-specific antibody. The assay was verified by the use of two well-characterized DYRK1A inhibitors, epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) and harmine. The IC50s for EGCG and harmine determined by the ELISA method were found to be comparable to those previously measured by radioactive tracing methods.\xa0 Furthermore, we determined the mode of inhibition for EGCG and harmine by a modification of the ELISA assay. This assay confirms the mode of inhibition of EGCG (non-ATP-competitive) and harmine (ATP-competitive), as previously determined. We conclude that the ELISA platform demonstrated here is a viable alternative to the traditional radioactive tracer assays for analyzing DYRK1A inhibitors.', u'/articles/6-42/v1', ['Public Health & Epidemiology', 'Neuroscience, Neurology & Psychiatry', 'Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology'], [u'Molecular Biology Department, New York State Institute for Basic Research in Developmental Disabilities, Staten Island, NY, USA']]
[u'Molecular signature of anastasis for reversal of apoptosis', ['Ho Man Tang', 'C. Conover Talbot Jr', 'Ming Chiu Fung', 'Ho Lam Tang'], u'13 Jan 2017', u'Apoptosis is a type of programmed cell death that is essential for normal organismal development and homeostasis of multicellular organisms by eliminating unwanted, injured, or dangerous cells. This cell suicide process is generally assumed to be irreversible. However, accumulating studies suggest that dying cells can recover from the brink of cell death. We recently discovered an unexpected reversibility of the execution-stage of apoptosis in vitro and in vivo, and proposed the term anastasis (Greek for \u201crising to life\u201d) to describe this cell recovery phenomenon. Promoting anastasis could in principle preserve injured cells that are difficult to replace, such as cardiomyocytes and neurons. Conversely, arresting anastasis in dying cancer cells after cancer therapies could improve treatment efficacy. To develop new therapies that promote or inhibit anastasis, it is essential to identify the key regulators and mediators of anastasis \u2013 the therapeutic targets. Therefore, we performed time-course microarray analysis to explore the molecular mechanisms of anastasis during reversal of ethanol-induced apoptosis in mouse primary liver cells. We found striking changes in transcription of genes involved in multiple pathways, including early activation of pro-survival genes, cell cycle arrest, stress-inducible responses, and at delayed times, cell migration and angiogenesis. Here, we present the time-course whole-genome gene expression dataset revealing gene expression profiles during the reversal of apoptosis. This dataset provides important insights into the physiological, pathological, and therapeutic implications of anastasis.', u'/articles/6-43/v1', ['Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology'], [u'Institute for Basic Biomedical Sciences, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, USA', u'School of Life Sciences, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, Hong Kong', u'W. Harry Feinstone Department of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology, Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, USA']]
