[u'Supporting evidence-based analysis for modified risk tobacco products through a toxicology data-sharing infrastructure', ['Stephanie Boue', 'Thomas Exner', 'Samik Ghosh', 'Vincenzo Belcastro', 'Joh Dokler', 'David Page', 'Akash Boda', 'Filipe Bonjour', 'Barry Hardy', 'Patrick Vanscheeuwijck', 'Julia Hoeng', 'Manuel Peitsch'], u'05 Jan 2017', u'The US FDA defines modified risk tobacco products (MRTPs) as products that aim to reduce harm or the risk of tobacco-related disease associated with commercially marketed tobacco products.\xa0 Establishing a product\u2019s potential as an MRTP requires scientific substantiation including toxicity studies and measures of disease risk relative to those of cigarette smoking.\xa0 Best practices encourage verification of the data from such studies through sharing and open standards. Building on the experience gained from the OpenTox project, a proof-of-concept database and website (INTERVALS) has been developed to share results from both in vivo inhalation studies and in vitro studies conducted by Philip Morris International R&D to assess candidate MRTPs. As datasets are often generated by diverse methods and standards, they need to be traceable, curated, and the methods used well described so that knowledge can be gained using data science principles and tools. The data-management framework described here accounts for the latest standards of data sharing and research reproducibility. Curated data and methods descriptions have been prepared in ISA-Tab format and stored in a database accessible via a search portal on the INTERVALS website. The portal allows users to browse the data by study or mechanism (e.g., inflammation, oxidative stress) and obtain information relevant to study design, methods, and the most important results. Given the successful development of the initial infrastructure, the goal is to grow this initiative and establish a public repository for 21st-century preclinical systems toxicology MRTP assessment data and results that supports open data principles.', u'/articles/6-12/v1', ['Publishing, Education & Communication', 'Physiology, Pharmacology & Drug Discovery'], [u'PMI R&D, Philip Morris Products S.A., Neuch\xe2tel, Switzerland', u'Douglas Connect GmbH, Zeiningen, Switzerland', u'SBX Corporation, Tokyo, Japan']]
[u'EPHect \u2013 the Endometriosis Phenome (and Biobanking) Harmonisation Project \u2013 may be very helpful for clinicians and the women they are treating', ['Laura M. Miller', 'Neil P. Johnson'], u'05 Jan 2017', u'This article acts as a summary of the recently published papers by the World Endometriosis Research Foundation aiming to set up the Endometriosis Phenome and Biobanking Harmonisation Project.\xa0 The objective of this project is to standardise recording of patient history and characteristics, recording of surgical procedure and extent of disease as well as collection, processing and storage of specimens and consequently create a reliable resource for research into endometriosis.', u'/articles/6-14/v1', ['Endocrinology & Gastroenterology', 'Urology, Gynecology & Obstetrics'], [u'Fertility Plus, Reproductive Endocrinology and Fertility Unit, National Women\u2019s, Greenlane Clinical Centre, Auckland, New Zealand', u'Robinson Research Institute, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, Australia']]
[u'A simple method for calculation of basic molecular properties of nutrients and their use as a criterion for a healthy diet', ['Veljko Veljkovic', 'Vladimir Perovic', 'Marko Anderluh', 'Slobodan Paessler', 'Milena Veljkovic', 'Sanja Glisic', 'Garth Nicolson'], u'05 Jan 2017', u'Background: Healthy nutrition is vital for good health and well-being. Despite the important role of a healthy nutritional diet, recommendations for healthy eating remain elusive and are mainly based on general properties of nutrients. The present study proposes an improved characterization of the molecular characteristics of nutrients, which are important for biological functions and can be useful in describing a healthy diet. Methods: We investigated the electronic properties of some known nutrient ingredients. In this analysis, we used the average quasi valence number (AQVN) and the electron-ion interaction potential (EIIP), which are molecular descriptors that represent the basic electronic properties of organic molecules. \xa0Results: Our results show that most nutrients can be represented by specific groups of organic compounds according to their basic electronic properties, and these differ from the vast majority of known chemicals. Based on this finding, we have proposed a simple criterion for the selection of food components for healthy nutrition. Discussion: Further studies on the electronic properties of nutrients could serve as a basis for better understanding of their biological functions.', u'/articles/6-13/v1', ['Endocrinology & Gastroenterology'], [u'Biomed Protection, Galveston, USA', u'Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Ljubljana, Ljubljana, Slovenia', u'Department of Pathology, Galveston National Laboratory,, University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, USA', u'Department of Molecular Pathology, The Institute for Molecular Medicine, Huntington Beach, USA']]
[u'Abnormal expression of ATP1A1 and ATP1A2 in breast cancer', ['Alexey Bogdanov', 'Fedor Moiseenko', 'Michael Dubina'], u'05 Jan 2017', u'Breast cancer is the first in incidence and the second in death among all solid tumors occurring in women. The identification of molecular genetic abnormalities in breast cancer is important to improve the results of treatment. In the present study, we analyzed microarray data of breast cancer expression profiling (NCBI GEO database, accession GSE65194), focusing on Na+/K+-ATPase coding genes. We found overexpression of the ATP1A1 and down-regulation of the ATP1A2. We expect that our research could help to improve the understanding of predictive and prognostic features of breast cancer.', u'/articles/6-10/v1', ['Oncology & Hematology'], [u'St Petersburg Academic University, St. Petersburg, Russian Federation', u'Practical Center for Specialized Types of Medical Care (Oncologic), St-Petersburg, Russian Federation', u'Peter the Great St. Petersburg Polytechnic University, St. Petersburg, Russian Federation', u'The Petersburg Nuclear Physics Institute, Gatchina, Russian Federation']]
