[u'Blockchain protocols in clinical trials: Transparency and traceability of consent', ['Mehdi Benchoufi', 'Raphael Porcher', 'Philippe Ravaud'], u'23 Jan 2017', u'Clinical trial consent for protocols and their revisions should be transparent for patients and traceable for stakeholders. Our goal is to implement a process allowing the collection of patients\u2019 informed consent, which is bound to protocol revisions, storing and tracking the consent in a secure, unfalsifiable and publicly verifiable way, and enabling the sharing of this information in real time. For that, we will built a consent workflow using a rising technology called Blockchain. This is a distributed technology that brings a built-in layer of transparency and traceability. Additionally, it removes the need for third parties, and gives participative control to the peer-to-peer users. From a more general and prospective point of view, we believe Blockchain technology brings a paradigmatical shift to the entire clinical research field. We designed a Proof-of-Concept protocol consisting of time-stamping each step of the patient\u2019s consent collection using Blockchain; thus archiving and historicising the consent through cryptographic validation in a securely unfalsifiable and transparent way. For each revision of the protocol, consent was sought again. We obtained a single document, in a standard open format, that accounted for the whole consent collection process: timestamped consent status with regards to each version of the protocol. This document cannot be corrupted, and can be checked on any dedicated public website. It should be considered as a robust proof of data. In the future, we think that the complex data flow of a clinical trial can be tracked using Blockchain. Moreover, a blockchain core functionality, named Smart Contract, can help prevent clinical trial events not to happen in the right chronological order: including patients before they consented or analysing case report forms data before freezing the database. This will help reaching reliability, security, and transparency, and could be a consistent step towards reproducibility.', u'/articles/6-66/v1', ['Public Health & Epidemiology'], [u"D\xe9partement d'Epid\xe9miologie Clinique, H\xf4pital H\xf4tel Dieu, Paris, France", u'Centre de recherche Inserm Epid\xe9miologie et Statistique Paris Sorbonne Cit\xe9 (U1153), Paris, France']]
[u'Training strategies and outcomes of ab interno trabeculectomy with the trabectome', ['Katherine Fallano', 'Igor Bussel', 'Larry Kagemann', 'Kira L. Lathrop', 'Nils Loewen'], u'23 Jan 2017', u'Plasma-mediated ab interno trabeculectomy with the trabectome was first approved by the US Food and Drug Administration in 2004 for use in adult and pediatric glaucomas. Since then, increased clinical experience and updated outcome data have led to its expanded use, including a range of glaucomas and angle presentations, previously deemed to be relatively contraindicated. The main benefits are a high degree of safety, ease, and speed compared to traditional filtering surgery and tube shunts. The increasing burden of glaucoma and expanding life expectancy has resulted in demand for well-trained surgeons. In this article, we discuss the results of trabectome surgery in standard and nonstandard indications. We present training strategies of the surgical technique that include a pig eye model, and visualization exercises that can be performed before and at the conclusion of standard cataract surgery in patients who do not have glaucoma. \xa0and examine expanded indications for ab interno trabeculectomy (AIT) with the trabectome.We detail the mechanism of enhancing the conventional outflow pathway and describe methods of visualizationof, as well as its visualization and function testingfunctional outflow analysis.', u'/articles/6-67/v1', ['Eye Disorders & ENT'], [u'Department of Ophthalmology, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, PA, USA', u'Food and Drug Administration, Silver Springs, MS, USA', u'Department of Ophthalmology, New York University School of Medicine, New York, NY, USA']]
[u'In silico gene expression profiling in Cannabis sativa', ['Luca Massimino'], u'23 Jan 2017', u'The cannabis plant and its active ingredients (i.e., cannabinoids and terpenoids) have been socially stigmatized for half a century. Luckily, with more than 430,000 published scientific papers and about 600 ongoing and completed clinical trials, nowadays cannabis is employed for the treatment of many different medical conditions. Nevertheless, even if a large amount of high-throughput functional genomic data exists, most researchers feature a strong background in molecular biology but lack advanced bioinformatics skills. In this work, publicly available gene expression datasets have been analyzed giving rise to a total of 40,224 gene expression profiles taken from cannabis plant tissue at different developmental stages. The resource presented here will provide researchers with a starting point for future investigations with Cannabis sativa.', u'/articles/6-69/v1', ['Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology'], [u'Molecular Oncology Unit, San Gerardo Hospital, Monza, Italy']]
[u'ELIXIR pilot action: Marine metagenomics \u2013 towards a domain specific set of sustainable services', ['Espen Mikal Robertsen', 'Hubert Denise', 'Alex Mitchell', 'Robert D. Finn', 'Lars Ailo Bongo', 'Nils Peder Willassen'], u'23 Jan 2017', u'Metagenomics, the study of genetic material recovered directly from environmental samples, has the potential to provide insight into the structure and function of heterogeneous microbial communities. \xa0There has been an increased use of metagenomics to discover and understand the diverse biosynthetic capacities of marine microbes, thereby allowing them to be exploited for industrial, food, and health care products. This ELIXIR pilot action was motivated by the need to establish dedicated data resources and harmonized metagenomics pipelines for the marine domain, in order to enhance the exploration and exploitation of marine genetic resources. In this paper, we summarize some of the results from the ELIXIR pilot action \u201cMarine metagenomics \u2013 towards user centric services\u201d.', u'/articles/6-70/v1', ['Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology'], [u'Center for Bioinformatics (SfB), UiT The Arctic University of Norway Bioinformatics, Troms\xf8, Norway', u'European Molecular Biology Laboratory, European Bioinformatics Institute (EMBL-EBI), Wellcome Genome Campus, Cambridge, UK']]
