[u'Improving agricultural knowledge management: The AgTrials experience', ['Glenn Hyman', 'Herlin Espinosa', 'Paola Camargo', 'David Abreu', 'Medha Devare', 'Elizabeth Arnaud', 'Cheryl Porter', 'Leroy Mwanzia', 'Kai Sonder', 'Sibiry Traore'], u'24 Mar 2017', u'Background: Opportunities to use data and information to address challenges in international agricultural research and development are expanding rapidly. The use of agricultural trial and evaluation data has enormous potential to improve crops and management practices. However, for a number of reasons, this potential has yet to be realized. This paper reports on the experience of the AgTrials initiative, an effort to build an online database of agricultural trials applying principles of interoperability and open access. Methods: Our analysis evaluates what worked and what did not work in the development of the AgTrials information resource. We analyzed data on our users and their interaction with the platform. We also surveyed our users to gauge their perceptions of the utility of the online database. Results: The study revealed barriers to participation and impediments to interaction, opportunities for improving agricultural knowledge management and a large potential for the use of trial and evaluation data.\xa0Conclusions: Technical and logistical mechanisms for developing interoperable online databases are well advanced. \xa0More effort will be needed to advance organizational and institutional work for these types of databases to realize their potential.', u'/articles/6-317/v1', ['Publishing, Education & Communication', 'Plant Biology, Ecology & Environmental Sciences'], [u'International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT), Cali, Colombia', u'CGIAR Research Program on Climate Change and Agricultural Food Security (CCAFS), Cali, Colombia', u'CGIAR Systemwide Management Office, Montpellier, F-34394, France', u'Bioversity International, Rome, 00054, Italy', u'University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, 32611, USA', u'International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT), Mexico DF, Mexico', u'International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), Bamako, Mali']]
[u'Extending TCGA queries to automatically identify analogous genomic data from dbGaP', ['Erin K. Wagner', 'Satyajeet Raje', 'Liz Amos', 'Jessica Kurata', 'Abhijit S. Badve', 'Yingquan Li', 'Ben Busby'], u'24 Mar 2017', u'Data sharing is critical to advance genomic research by reducing the demand to collect new data by reusing and combining existing data and by promoting reproducible research. The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) is a popular resource for individual-level genotype-phenotype cancer related data. The Database of Genotypes and Phenotypes (dbGaP) contains many datasets similar to those in TCGA. We have created a software pipeline that will allow researchers to discover relevant genomic data from dbGaP, based on matching TCGA metadata. The resulting research provides an easy to use tool to connect these two data sources.', u'/articles/6-319/v1', ['Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology'], [u'BioStat Solutions, Frederick, USA', u'National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, USA', u'Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, City of Hope, Duarte, USA', u'GeneDx, Gaithersburg, USA', u'Corporate Executive Board (CEB), Arlington, USA', u'National Center for Biotechnology Information, National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, USA']]
[u'Hermaphroditism in the white spot grouper Epinephelus coeruleopunctatus (Pisces: Serranidae) harvested from Padang City waters, Indonesia', ['Usman Bulanin', 'Masrizal Masrizal', 'Zainal A. Muchlisin'], u'24 Mar 2017', u'The objective of the present study was to determine the length (mm) for sex transformation of hermaphroditism in white spot grouper Epinephelus coeruleopunctatus as a basis for developing breeding technology. Fish sampling was carried out between April and October 2013 in Padang City waters, Indonesia. A total of 56 white spot groupers were recorded during the study; of these 22 were male, 28 female and 6 samples were not recognized regarding sex preference. Sex differentiation was detected at a length of 183 mm, and at this size the fish are female. Sex transformation to male begun to occur at 302 mm total length.', u'/articles/6-320/v1', ['Plant Biology, Ecology & Environmental Sciences'], [u'Faculty of Fisheries and Marine Sciences, Bung Hatta University, Padang, 25133, Indonesia', u'Faculty of Animal Sciences, Andalas University, Padang, 25133, Indonesia', u'Faculty of Marine and Fisheries, Syiah Kuala University, Banda Aceh, 23111, Indonesia']]
