[u'Healthcare benefits linked with Below Poverty Line registration in India: Observations from Maharashtra Anaemia Study (MAS)', ['Anand Ahankari', 'Andrew Fogarty', 'Laila Tata', 'Puja Myles'], u'09 Jan 2017', u'A 2015 Lancet paper by Patel et al. on healthcare access in India comprehensively discussed national health programmes where some benefits are linked with the country\u2019s Below Poverty Line (BPL) registration scheme. BPL registration aims to support poor families by providing free/subsidised healthcare. Technical issues in obtaining BPL registration by poor families have been previously reported in the Indian literature; however there are no data on family assets of BPL registrants. Here, we provide evidence of family-level assets among BPL registration holders (and non-BPL households) using original research data from the Maharashtra Anaemia Study (MAS).\r\n\xa0\r\nSocial and health data from 287 pregnant women and 891 adolescent girls (representing 1178 family households) across 34 villages in Maharashtra state, India, were analysed. Several assets were shown to be similarly distributed between BPL and non-BPL households; a large proportion of families who would probably be eligible were not registered, whereas BPL-registered families often had significant assets that should not make them eligible. This is likely to be the first published evidence where asset distribution such as agricultural land, housing structures and livestock are compared between BPL and non-BPL households in a rural population. These findings may help planning BPL administration to allocate health benefits equitably, which is an integral part of national health programmes.', u'/articles/6-25/v1', ['Publishing, Education & Communication'], [u'Division of Epidemiology and Public Health, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, UK', u'Halo Medical Foundation, Maharashtra, India']]
[u'Engaging high school students in systems biology\xa0through an e-internship program', ['Wim E Crusio', 'Cynthia Rubino', 'Anna Delprato'], u'09 Jan 2017', u'In this article, we describe the design and implementation of an e-internship program that BioScience Project offers high school students over the summer. Project topics are in the areas of behavioral neuroscience and brain disorders. All research, teaching, and communication is done online using open access databases and webtools, a learning management system, and Google apps. Students conduct all aspects of a research project from formulating a question to collecting and analyzing the data, to presenting their results in the form of a scientific poster. Results from a pilot study indicate that students are capable of comprehending and successfully completing such a project, and benefit both intellectually and professionally from participating in the e-internship program.', u'/articles/6-20/v1', ['Publishing, Education & Communication'], [u'BioScience Project, Wakefield, USA', u"University of Bordeaux, Institut de Neurosciences Cognitives et Int\xe9gratives d'Aquitaine (UMR 5287), Pessac Cedex, France", u"CNRS, Institut de Neurosciences Cognitives et Int\xe9gratives d'Aquitaine (UMR 5287), Pessac Cedex, France"]]
[u'Conservation of gene essentiality in Apicomplexa and its application for prioritization of anti-malarial drug targets', ['Gajinder Pal Singh'], u'09 Jan 2017', u'New anti-malarial drugs are needed to address the challenge of artemisinin resistance and to achieve malaria elimination and eradication. Target-based screening of inhibitors is a major approach for drug discovery, but its application to malaria has been limited by the availability of few validated drug targets in Plasmodium. Here we utilize the recently available large-scale gene essentiality data in Plasmodium berghei and a related apicomplexan pathogen, Toxoplasma gondii, to identify potential anti-malarial drug targets. We find significant conservation of gene essentiality in the two apicomplexan parasites. The conservation of essentiality could be used to prioritize enzymes that are essential across the two parasites and show no or low sequence similarity to human proteins. Novel essential genes in Plasmodium could be predicted based on their essentiality in T. gondii. Essential genes in Plasmodium showed higher expression, evolutionary conservation and association with specific functional classes. We expect that the availability of a large number of novel potential drug targets would significantly accelerate anti-malarial drug discovery.', u'/articles/6-23/v1', ['Immunology, Microbiology & Infectious Diseases', 'Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology', 'Physiology, Pharmacology & Drug Discovery'], [u'Molecular Medicine Group, International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology (ICGEB), New Delhi, India']]
[u'Genetic polymorphisms in the serotonin receptor 7 (HTR7) gene are associated with cortisol levels in African American young adults', ['Grace Swanson', 'Stephanie Miller', 'Areej Alyahyawi', 'Bradford Wilson', 'Forough Saadatmand', 'Clarence Lee', 'Georgia Dunston', 'Muneer Abbas'], u'09 Jan 2017', u'Introduction: Serotonin is a neurohormone involved in biological processes, such as behavior and immune function. Chronic psychosocial stressors may cause serotonin release resulting in immune system dysregulation, as evidenced by increased or far decreased levels of cortisol, a blood biomarker of stress and immune function. We hypothesize that genetic polymorphisms in the HTR7 gene are associated with both hypo- and hyper-cortisolism. Methods: The study population included 602 African American subjects between 18-34 years of age, living in Washington, D.C. Five single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in HTR7, rs2420367, rs12412496, rs2185706, rs7089533, and rs7093602 were genotyped by restriction fragment length polymorphism or the TaqMan assay. Statistical analysis, using the program SNPstat, was performed to determine their associations with cortisol measured in the study population. Results: While an increased risk of hypocortisolism was found to be associated with rs2420367, rs2185706, and rs7093602 in a gender specific manner, no genotypes could be associated with hypercortisolism. Inversely, a decreased risk of hypocortisolism was found with the haplotype CGGCC (p=0.033), which remained significant in males. When adjusting for gender, females associated with the haplotype AGACC. Hypercortisolism was also associated with a decreased risk for the haplotypes AAACC (p=0.042) and AAGTT (p=0.001). Discussion: Based on these results, genetic variation in the HTR7 gene may contribute to both stress and inflammation, and will provide a new glimpse into stress-related inflammation psychophysiology.', u'/articles/6-19/v1', ['Endocrinology & Gastroenterology', 'Molecular, Cellular & Structural Biology', 'Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology'], [u'Department of Microbiology, Howard University College of Medicine, Washington, USA', u'Department of Graduate Education in Biomedical Sciences, Morehouse School of Medicine, Atlanta, USA', u'Department of Biology, Howard University, Washington, USA', u'Department of Genetics and Human Genetics, Howard University College of Medicine, Washington, USA', u'National Human Genome Center, Howard University College of Medicine, Washington, USA', u'Department of Pediatrics and Child Health, Howard University Hospital, Washington, USA']]
[u'Age-specific acceleration in malignant melanoma', ['Brian L Diffey', 'Steven A Frank'], u'09 Jan 2017', u'Background: The overall incidence of melanoma has increased steadily for several years. The relative change in incidence at different ages has not been fully described.\xa0Objective: To describe how incidence at different ages has changed over time and to consider what aspects of tumour biology may explain the observed pattern of change in incidence.\xa0Methods: The slope of incidence vs age measures the acceleration of cancer incidence with age. We described the pattern of change over time in the overall incidence of melanoma, as well as in acceleration. We used data for males and females from 3 different countries in the 17 sequential 5-year birth-cohort categories from 1895-99 to 1975-79, from which we derived the incidence patterns.\xa0Results: Over time, there has been a tendency for the overall incidence of melanoma to increase and for the acceleration (slope) of the age-incidence curves to decline. The changing patterns of melanoma incidence and acceleration differ between males and females and between the countries analysed.\xa0Conclusions: The observed pattern in melanoma of rising incidence and declining acceleration occurs in other cancers in response to genetic knockouts of mechanisms that protect against cancer. Perhaps some protective mechanism with respect to melanoma may be less effective now than in the past, possibly because of more intense environmental challenges.', u'/articles/6-27/v1', ['Oncology & Hematology', 'Dermatology'], [u'Dermatological Sciences, Institute of Cellular Medicine, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK', u'Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of California, Irvine, USA']]
[u'Pathogen Sequence Signature Analysis (PSSA): A software tool for analyzing sequences to identify microorganism genotypes', ['Karina Salvatierra', 'Hector Florez'], u'09 Jan 2017', u'Introduction\r\nThe chikungunya virus (CHIKV) is an arbovirus vectored by Aedes mosquitoes that infects humans in tropical and sub-tropical areas of Asia and Africa. Recently, outbreaks have been reported in tropical and sub-tropical areas of countries that were previously unaffected (e.g., Brazil, Colombia). Currently, the following geographical genotypes have been identified through phylogenetic analysis of CHIKV E1 gene sequences: the West African (WAf), East/Central/South African (ECSA), and Asian genotypes. Outbreaks in a geographical area can happen with the same or different genotypes. Determining which genotypes are circulating in an outbreak is important for public health management.\nObjectives\r\nTo create a computer-based system available online that is suitable for detecting changes in CHIKV nucleotide and amino acid sequences and identifying their corresponding geographical genotype.\nMethods\r\nWe used several computer frameworks, tools, programming languages, algorithms, and infrastructure systems to build a software tool that analyzes changes in nucleotide and amino acid sequences and identifies different geographical genotypes through phylogenetic analysis.\nResults\r\nWe have built an online software tool called Pathogen Sequence Signature Analysis (PSSA) that allows researchers to analyze nucleotide and amino acid sequence variations between sample CHIKV sequences taken from infected patients and obtained through conventional Sanger sequencing, to identify their corresponding geographical genotype.\nConclusion\r\nPSSA is able to analyze sequences in a simple and effective manner, and includes proper documentation (i.e., UML diagrams) and also basic examples that serve to test the algorithm. Furthermore, PSSA provides various ways to visualize the data in order to aid understanding and interpretation of results.\r\nResults provided by PSSA will be useful for the identification of circulating CHIKV genotypes and public health surveillance. PSSA is available at: http://pssa.itiud.org.', u'/articles/6-21/v1', ['Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology'], [u'Faculty of Exact, Chemical and Natural Sciences, Universidad Nacional de Misiones, Posadas, Argentina', u'Faculty of Technology, Universidad Distrital Francisco Jos\xe9 de Caldas, Bogot\xe1, Colombia']]
