[u'Scaling-up primary health care-based prevention and management of alcohol use disorder at the municipal level in middle-income countries in Latin America: Background and pre-protocol for a three-country quasi-experimental study', ['Peter Anderson', "Amy O'Donnell", 'Eileen Kaner', 'Antoni Gual', 'Bernd Schulte', 'Augusto Perez Gomez', 'Hein de Vries', 'Guillermina Natera Rey', 'Jurgen Rehm'], u'23 Mar 2017', u'Background: While primary health care (PHC)-based prevention and management of alcohol use disorder (AUD) is clinically effective and cost-effective, it remains poorly implemented in routine practice. Systematic reviews and multi-country studies have demonstrated the ability of training and support programmes to increase PHC-based screening and brief advice activity to reduce heavy drinking. However, gains have been only modest and short term at best. WHO studies have concluded that a more effective uptake could be achieved by embedding PHC activity within broader community and municipal support.\xa0Protocol: A quasi-experimental study will compare PHC-based prevention and management of AUD, operationalized by heavy drinking, in three intervention cities from Colombia, Mexico and Peru with three comparator cities from the same countries. In the implementation cities, primary health care units (PHCUs) will receive training embedded within ongoing supportive municipal action over an 18-month implementation period. In the comparator cities, practice as usual will continue at both municipal and PHCU levels. The primary outcome will be the proportion of consulting adult patients intervened with (screened and advice given to screen positives). The study is powered to detect a doubling of the outcome measure from an estimated 2.5/1,000 patients at baseline. Formal evaluation points will be at baseline, mid-point and end-point of the 18-month implementation period. We will present the ratio (plus 95% confidence interval) of the proportion of patients receiving intervention in the implementation cities with the proportions in the comparator cities. Full process evaluation will be undertaken, coupled with an analysis of potential contextual, financial and political-economy influencing factors.\xa0Discussion: This multi-country study will test the extent to which embedding PHC-based prevention and management of alcohol use disorder with supportive municipal action leads to improved scale-up of more patients with heavy drinking receiving appropriate advice and treatment.', u'/articles/6-311/v1', ['Public Health & Epidemiology'], [u'Institute of Health & Society, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE2 4AX, UK', u'Faculty of Health, Medicine and Life Sciences, Maastricht University, Maastricht, 6221 HA, Netherlands', u'Addictions Unit, Psychiatry Dept, Hospital Cl\xednic of Barcelona, Barcelona, 08036, Spain', u'Institut d\u2019Investigacions Biom\xe8diques August Pi Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Barcelona, 08036, Spain', u'Red de Trastornos Adictivo, Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, 28029, Spain', u'Centre for Interdisciplinary Addiction Research, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, 20246, Germany', u'Corporaci\xf3n Nuevos Rumbos, Bogot\xe1, Colombia', u'Department of Health Promotion, Maastricht University, Maastricht, 6200, Netherlands', u'Instituto Nacional de Psiquiatr\xeda Ram\xf3n de la Fuente Mu\xf1iz, Mexico City, 14370, Mexico', u'Institute for Mental Health Policy Research, Toronto, ON, M5S 2S1, Canada', u'Dalla Lana School of Public Health, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, M5T 3M7, Canada', u'Department of Psychiatry, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, M5T 3M7, Canada', u'Institute for Clinical Psychology and Psychotherapy, TU Dresden, Dresden, 01187, Germany']]
[u'Towards a systems approach for chronic diseases, based on health state modeling', ['Michael Rebhan'], u'23 Mar 2017', u'Rising pressure from chronic diseases means that we need to learn how to deal with challenges at a different level, including the use of systems approaches that better connect across fragments, such as disciplines, stakeholders, institutions, and technologies. By learning from progress in leading areas of health innovation (including oncology and AIDS), as well as complementary indications (Alzheimer\u2019s disease), I try to extract the most enabling innovation paradigms, and discuss their extension to additional areas of application within a systems approach. To facilitate such work, a Precision, P4 or Systems Medicine platform is proposed, which is centered on the representation of health states that enable the definition of time in the vision to provide the right intervention for the right patient at the right time and dose. Modeling of such health states should allow iterative optimization, as longitudinal human data accumulate. This platform is designed to facilitate the discovery of links between opportunities related to a) the modernization of diagnosis, including the increased use of omics profiling, b) patient-centric approaches enabled by technology convergence, including digital health and connected devices, c) increasing understanding of the pathobiological, clinical and health economic aspects of disease progression stages, d) design of new interventions, including therapies as well as preventive measures, including sequential intervention approaches. Probabilistic Markov models of health states, e.g. those used for health economic analysis, are discussed as a simple starting point for the platform. A path towards extension into other indications, data types and uses is discussed, with a focus on regenerative medicine and relevant pathobiology.', u'/articles/6-309/v1', ['Public Health & Epidemiology'], [u'Novartis Institutes for Biomedical Research, Basel, 4056, Switzerland']]
[u'Case Report: Beh\xe7et\u2019s disease accompanied with vitiligo', ['Ragp Ertas', 'Kemal Ozyurt', 'Atl Avc', 'Sule Ketenci Ertas', 'Mustafa Atasoy'], u'23 Mar 2017', u'Recently, a few case reports and clinical studies have been published that explore the association of Beh\xe7et\u2019s Disease (BD) and vitiligo, with conflicting results. Genetic and immunological properties of BD and presence of autoantibodies support autoimmunity, but clinical features suggest autoinflammatory diseases. BD is thought to be a cornerstone between autoimmune and autoinflammatory diseases. On the other hand, vitiligo has been accepted as an autoimmune disease with associations of other autoimmune disorders and there is a possible role of autoimmunity in pathogenesis of the disease. Significant advances have been made understanding the pathogenesis and genetics of BD. However, it is worth presenting rare clinical variants for improving the clinical understanding of BD. Herein, we are presenting a case with diagnosis of both Beh\xe7et\u2019s disease and vitiligo in same patient, which is a rare occurrence. Discussion and demonstrating the association of these two diseases may give rise to understanding similar and different aspects of autoimmunity and autoinflammatory pathogenesis of both diseases.', u'/articles/6-310/v1', ['Immunology, Microbiology & Infectious Diseases', 'Dermatology'], [u'Dermatology Department, Kayseri Training and Research Hospital, Kayseri, 38050, Turkey', u'Department of Rheumatology, Erciyes University Faculty of Medicine, Kayseri, 38039, Turkey']]
