[u'A qualitative and quantitative performance evaluation of Swaziland\u2019s Rural Health Motivator program', ['Pascal Geldsetzer', 'Maria Vaikath', 'Jan-Walter De Neve', 'Till Barnighausen', 'Thomas J. Bossert'], u'02 May 2017', u"Background: Community health workers (CHWs) are increasingly used to increase access to primary healthcare, and considered to be a key health worker cadre to achieve the UNAIDS 90-90-90 target. Despite the recent policy interest in effectively designing, implementing, and evaluating new CHW programs, there is limited evidence on how long-standing CHW programs are performing. Using the CHW Performance Logic model as an evaluation framework, this study aims to assess the performance of Swaziland\u2019s long-standing national CHW program, called the rural health motivator (RHM) program. Methods: This study was carried out in the Manzini and Lubombo regions of Swaziland. We conducted a survey of 2,000 households selected through two-stage cluster random sampling and a survey among a stratified simple random sample of 306 RHMs. Additionally, semi-structured qualitative interviews were conducted with 25 RHMs. Results: While RHMs are instructed to visit every household assigned to them at least once a month, only 15.7% (95% CI: 11.4 \u2013 20.4%) of RHMs self-reported to be meeting this target. Less than half (46.3%; 95% CI: 43.4 \u2013 49.6%) of household survey respondents, who reported to have ever been visited by a RHM, rated their overall satisfaction with RHM services as eight or more points on a 10-point scale (ranging from \u201cvery dissatisfied\u201d to \u201cvery satisfied\u201d). A theme arising from the qualitative interviews was that community members only rarely seek care from RHMs, with care-seeking tending to be constrained to emergency situations. Conclusions: The RHM program does not meet some of its key performance objectives. Two opportunities to improve RHM performance identified by the evaluation were increasing RHM's stipend and improving the supply of equipment and material resources needed by RHMs to carry out their tasks.", u'/articles/6-607/v1', ['Public Health & Epidemiology'], [u'Department of Global Health and Population, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, MA, 02115, USA', u'Institute of Public Health, Heidelberg University, Heidelberg, 69120, Germany', u'Africa Health Research Institute, University of KwaZulu-Natal, Mtubatuba, 3935, South Africa']]
[u'On the origin of nonequivalent states: How we can talk about preprints', ['Cameron Neylon', 'Damian Pattinson', 'Geoffrey Bilder', 'Jennifer Lin'], u'02 May 2017', u'Increasingly, preprints are at the center of conversations across the research ecosystem. But disagreements remain about the role they play. Do they \u201ccount\u201d for research assessment? Is it ok to post preprints in more than one place? In this paper, we argue that these discussions often conflate two separate issues, the history of the manuscript and the status granted it by different communities. In this paper, we propose a new model that distinguishes the characteristics of the object, its \u201cstate\u201d, from the subjective \u201cstanding\u201d granted to it by different communities. This provides a way to discuss the difference in practices between communities, which will deliver more productive conversations and facilitate negotiation, as well as sharpening our focus on the role of different stakeholders on how to collectively improve the process of scholarly communications not only for preprints, but other forms of scholarly contributions.', u'/articles/6-608/v1', ['Publishing, Education & Communication'], [u'Centre for Culture and Technology, Curtin University, Perth, WA, 6102, Australia', u'Research Square, Durham, NC, 27701, USA', u'Crossref, Lynnfield, MA, 01940, USA']]
[u'Reproducibility2020: Progress and priorities', ['Leonard P. Freedman', 'Gautham Venugopalan', 'Rosann Wisman'], u'02 May 2017', u'The preclinical research process is a cycle of idea generation, experimentation, and reporting of results. The biomedical research community relies on the reproducibility of published discoveries to create new lines of research and to translate research findings into therapeutic applications. Since 2012, when scientists from Amgen reported that they were able to reproduce only 6 of 53 \u201clandmark\u201d preclinical studies, the biomedical research community began discussing the scale of the reproducibility problem and developing initiatives to address critical challenges. Global Biological Standards Institute (GBSI) released the \u201cCase for Standards\u201d in 2013, one of the first comprehensive reports to address the rising concern of irreproducible biomedical research. Further attention was drawn to issues that limit scientific self-correction, including reporting and publication bias, underpowered studies, lack of open access to methods and data, and lack of clearly defined standards and guidelines in areas such as reagent validation. To evaluate the progress made towards reproducibility since 2013, GBSI identified and examined initiatives designed to advance quality and reproducibility. Through this process, we identified key roles for funders, journals, researchers and other stakeholders and recommended actions for future progress. This paper describes our findings and conclusions.', u'/articles/6-604/v1', ['Publishing, Education & Communication'], [u'Global Biological Standards Institute, Washington, DC, 20036, USA', u'Gryphon Scientific, LLC, Takoma Park, MD, 20912, USA']]
[u'PubRunner: A light-weight framework for updating text mining results', ['Kishore R. Anekalla', 'J.P. Courneya', 'Nicolas Fiorini', 'Jake Lever', 'Michael Muchow', 'Ben Busby'], u'02 May 2017', u'Biomedical text mining promises to assist biologists in quickly navigating the combined knowledge in their domain. This would allow improved understanding of the complex interactions within biological systems and faster hypothesis generation. New biomedical research articles are published daily and text mining tools are only as good as the corpus from which they work. Many text mining tools are underused because their results are static and do not reflect the constantly expanding knowledge in the field. In order for biomedical text mining to become an indispensable tool used by researchers, this problem must be addressed. To this end, we present PubRunner, a framework for regularly running text mining tools on the latest publications. PubRunner is lightweight, simple to use, and can be integrated with an existing text mining tool. The workflow involves downloading the latest abstracts from PubMed, executing a user-defined tool, pushing the resulting data to a public FTP, and publicizing the location of these results on the public PubRunner website. This shows a proof of concept that we hope will encourage text mining developers to build tools that truly will aid biologists in exploring the latest publications.', u'/articles/6-612/v1', ['Genomics, Computational & Systems Biology'], [u'Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, 60611, USA', u'Health Sciences and Human Services Library, University of Maryland, Baltimore, MD, 21201, USA', u'National Center for Biotechnology Information, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, 20894, USA', u"Canada's Michael Smith Genome Sciences Centre, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, V5Z 4S6, Canada", u'National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD, 20899, USA', u'National Center for Biotechnology Information, National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, 20894, USA']]
