[u'Protein-Ligand Scoring with Convolutional Neural Networks', ['Matthew Ragoza', 'Joshua Hochuli', 'Elisa Idrobo', 'Jocelyn Sunseri', 'David Ryan Koes'], u'2016-12-08', u'Computational approaches to drug discovery can reduce the time and cost associated with experimental assays and enable the screening of novel chemotypes. Structure-based drug design methods rely on scoring functions to rank and predict binding affinities and poses. The ever-expanding amount of protein-ligand binding and structural data enables the use of deep machine learning techniques for protein-ligand scoring. We describe convolutional neural network (CNN) scoring functions that take as input a comprehensive 3D representation of a protein-ligand interaction. A CNN scoring function automatically learns the key features of protein-ligand interactions that correlate with binding. We train and optimize our CNN scoring functions to discriminate between correct and incorrect binding poses and known binders and non-binders. We find that our CNN scoring function outperforms the AutoDock Vina scoring function when ranking poses both for pose prediction and virtual screening.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.02751v1', ['Biomolecules'], [u'University of Pittsburgh', u'The College of New Jersey']]
[u'Random versus maximum entropy models of neural population activity', ['Ulisse Ferrari', 'Tomoyuki Obuchi', 'Thierry Mora'], u'2016-12-08', u'The principle of maximum entropy provides a useful method for inferring statistical mechanics models from observations in correlated systems, and is widely used in a variety of fields where accurate data are available. While the assumptions underlying maximum entropy are intuitive and appealing, its adequacy for describing complex empirical data has been little studied in comparison to alternative approaches. Here data from the collective spiking activity of retinal neurons is reanalysed. The accuracy of the maximum entropy distribution constrained by mean firing rates and pairwise correlations is compared to a random ensemble of distributions constrained by the same observables. In general, maximum entropy approximates the true distribution better than the typical or mean distribution from that ensemble. This advantage improves with population size, with groups as small as 8 being almost always better described by maximum entropy. Failure of maximum entropy to outperform random models is found to be associated with strong correlations in the population.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.02807v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Predicting brain age with deep learning from raw imaging data results in a reliable and heritable biomarker', ['James H Cole', 'Rudra PK Poudel', 'Dimosthenis Tsagkrasoulis', 'Matthan WA Caan', 'Claire Steves', 'Tim D Spector', 'Giovanni Montana'], u'2016-12-08', u'Machine learning analysis of neuroimaging data can accurately predict chronological age in healthy people and deviations from healthy brain ageing have been associated with cognitive impairment and disease. Here we sought to further establish the credentials of "brain-predicted age" as a biomarker of individual differences in the brain ageing process, using a predictive modelling approach based on deep learning, and specifically convolutional neural networks (CNN), and applied to both pre-processed and raw T1-weighted MRI data. Firstly, we aimed to demonstrate the accuracy of CNN brain-predicted age using a large dataset of healthy adults (N = 2001). Next, we sought to establish the heritability of brain-predicted age using a sample of monozygotic and dizygotic female twins (N = 62). Thirdly, we examined the test-retest and multi-centre reliability of brain-predicted age using two samples (within-scanner N = 20; between-scanner N = 11). CNN brain-predicted ages were generated and compared to a Gaussian Process Regression (GPR) approach, on all datasets. Input data were grey matter (GM) or white matter (WM) volumetric maps generated by Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM) or raw data. Brain-predicted age represents an accurate, highly reliable and genetically-valid phenotype, that has potential to be used as a biomarker of brain ageing. Moreover, age predictions can be accurately generated on raw T1-MRI data, substantially reducing computation time for novel data, bringing the process closer to giving real-time information on brain health in clinical settings.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.02572v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Rethinking the Experiment', ['Mihai Nadin'], u'2016-12-07', u'The crisis in the reproducibility of experiments invites a re-evaluation of methods of inquiry and validation procedures. The text challenges current assumptions of knowledge acquisition and introduces G-complexity for defining decidable vs. non-decidable knowledge domains. A "second Cartesian revolution," informed by and in awareness of anticipatory processes, should result in scientific methods that transcend determinism and reductionism. Physics and physics-based disciplines convincingly ascertained themselves by adequately describing the non-living. A complementary perspective should account for the specific causality characteristic of life by integrating past, present, and future. Knowledge about anticipatory processes facilitates attainment of this goal. Society cannot afford the dead-end street of reductionism. Science, itself an expression of anticipatory activity, makes possible in our days alternative understandings of reality and its dynamics.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.02491v1', ['Other'], []]
[u'Advances in using Internet searches to track dengue', ['Shihao Yang', 'S. C. Kou', 'Fred Lu', 'John S. Brownstein', 'Nicholas Brooke', 'Mauricio Santillana'], u'2016-12-08', u"Dengue is a mosquito-borne disease that threatens more than half of the world's population. Despite being endemic to over 100 countries, government-led efforts and mechanisms to timely identify and track the emergence of new infections are still lacking in many affected areas. Multiple methodologies that leverage the use of Internet-based data sources have been proposed as a way to complement dengue surveillance efforts. Among these, the trends in dengue-related Google searches have been shown to correlate with dengue activity. We extend a methodological framework, initially proposed and validated for flu surveillance, to produce near real-time estimates of dengue cases in five countries/regions: Mexico, Brazil, Thailand, Singapore and Taiwan. Our result shows that our modeling framework can be used to improve the tracking of dengue activity in multiple locations around the world.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.02812v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Emergence of Autocatalytic Sets in Chemical Reaction Networks Based on RNA Secondary Structure', ['Wim Hordijk'], u'2016-12-08', u'The dominant paradigm in origin of life research is that of an RNA world. However, despite experimental progress towards the spontaneous formation of RNA, the RNA world hypothesis still has its problems. Here, we introduce a novel computational model of chemical reaction networks based on RNA secondary structure, and analyze the emergence of autocatalytic sub-networks in random instances of this model, by combining two well-established computational tools. Our main results are that (i) autocatalytic sets are highly likely to emerge, even for very small reaction networks and short RNA sequences, and (ii) molecular diversity seems to be a more important factor in the formation of autocatalytic sets than molecular complexity. These findings could shed new light on the probability of the spontaneous emergence of an RNA world as a network of mutually collaborative ribozymes.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.02770v1', ['Molecular Networks'], []]
[u'A Thermodynamically consistent model of the post-translational Kai circadian clock', ['Joris Paijmans', 'David K Lubensky', 'Pieter Rein ten Wolde'], u'2016-12-08', u'The principal pacemaker of the circadian clock of the cyanobacterium S. elongatus is a protein phosphorylation cycle consisting of three proteins, KaiA, KaiB and KaiC. KaiC forms a homohexamer, with each monomer consisting of two domains, CI and CII. Both domains can bind and hydrolyze ATP, but only the CII domain can be phosphorylated, at two residues, in a well-defined sequence. While this system has been studied extensively, how the clock is driven thermodynamically has remained elusive. Inspired by recent experimental observations and building on ideas from previous mathematical models, we present a new, thermodynamically consistent, statistical-mechanical model of the clock. At its heart are two main ideas: i) ATP hydrolysis in the CI domain provides the thermodynamic driving force for the clock, switching KaiC between an active conformational state in which its phosphorylation level tends to rise and an inactive one in which it tends to fall; ii) phosphorylation of the CII domain provides the timer for the hydrolysis in the CI domain. The model also naturally explains how KaiA, by acting as a nucleotide exchange factor, can stimulate phosphorylation of KaiC, and how the differential affinity of KaiA for the different KaiC phosphoforms generates the characteristic temporal order of KaiC phosphorylation. As the phosphorylation level in the CII domain rises, the release of ADP from CI slows down, making the inactive conformational state of KaiC more stable. In the inactive state, KaiC binds KaiB, which not only stabilizes this state further, but also leads to the sequestration of KaiA, and hence to KaiC dephosphorylation. Using a dedicated kinetic Monte Carlo algorithm, we show that the model can describe a wealth of experimental data.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.02715v1', ['Molecular Networks', 'Subcellular Processes'], []]
[u'Ionic Coulomb blockade and anomalous mole fraction effect in NaChBac bacterial ion channels', ['I. Kh. Kaufman', 'O. A. Fedorenko', 'D. G. Luchinsky', 'W. A. T. Gibby', 'S. K. Roberts. P. V. E. McClintock', 'R. S. Eisenberg'], u'2016-12-08', u'We report an experimental study of the influences of the fixed charge and bulk ionic concentrations on the conduction of biological ion channels, and we consider the results within the framework of the ionic Coulomb blockade model of permeation and selectivity. Voltage clamp recordings were used to investigate the Na$^+$/Ca$^{2+}$ anomalous mole fraction effect (AMFE) exhibited by the bacterial sodium channel NaChBac and its mutants. Site-directed mutagenesis was used to study the effect of either increasing or decreasing the fixed charge in their selectivity filters for comparison with the predictions of the Coulomb blockade model. The model was found to describe well some aspects of the experimental (divalent blockade and AMFE) and simulated (discrete multi-ion conduction and occupancy band) phenomena, including a concentration-dependent shift of the Coulomb staircase. These results substantially extend the understanding of ion channel selectivity and may also be applicable to biomimetic nanopores with charged walls.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.02744v1', ['Subcellular Processes', 'Cell Behavior'], []]
