[u'Paradoxes in Leaky Microbial Trade', ['Yoav Kallus', 'John H. Miller', 'Eric Libby'], u'2016-12-09', u"Microbes produce metabolic resources that are important for cell growth yet leak across membranes into the extracellular environment. Other microbes in the same environment can use these resources and adjust their own metabolic production accordingly---causing other resources to leak into the environment. The combined effect of these processes is an economy in which organismal growth and metabolic production are coupled to others in the community. We propose a model for the co-evolving dynamics of metabolite concentrations, production regulation, and population frequencies for the case of two cell types, each requiring and capable of producing two metabolites. In this model, beneficial trade relations emerge without any coordination, via individual-level production decisions that maximize each cell's growth rate given its perceived environment. As we vary production parameters of the model, we encounter three paradoxical behaviors, where a change that should intuitively benefit some cell type, actually harms it. (1) If a cell type is more efficient than its counterpart at producing a metabolite and becomes even more efficient, its frequency in the population can decrease. (2) If a cell type is less efficient than its counterpart at producing a metabolite but becomes less inefficient, the growth rate of the population can decrease. (3) Finally, if a cell type controls its counterpart's production decisions so as to maximize its own growth rate, the ultimate growth rate it achieves can be lower than if the two cell types each maximized their own growth. These three paradoxes highlight the complex and counter-intuitive dynamics that emerge in simple microbial economies.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.03125v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'BaTFLED: Bayesian Tensor Factorization Linked to External Data', ['Nathan H Lazar', 'Mehmet Gonen', 'Kemal Sonmez'], u'2016-12-09', u"The vast majority of current machine learning algorithms are designed to predict single responses or a vector of responses, yet many types of response are more naturally organized as matrices or higher-order tensor objects where characteristics are shared across modes. We present a new machine learning algorithm BaTFLED (Bayesian Tensor Factorization Linked to External Data) that predicts values in a three-dimensional response tensor using input features for each of the dimensions. BaTFLED uses a probabilistic Bayesian framework to learn projection matrices mapping input features for each mode into latent representations that multiply to form the response tensor. By utilizing a Tucker decomposition, the model can capture weights for interactions between latent factors for each mode in a small core tensor. Priors that encourage sparsity in the projection matrices and core tensor allow for feature selection and model regularization. This method is shown to far outperform elastic net and neural net models on 'cold start' tasks from data simulated in a three-mode structure. Additionally, we apply the model to predict dose-response curves in a panel of breast cancer cell lines treated with drug compounds that was used as a Dialogue for Reverse Engineering Assessments and Methods (DREAM) challenge.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.02965v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'"Inchworm Filaments": Motility and Pattern Formation', ['Nash Rochman', 'Sean X. Sun'], u'2016-12-09', u'In a previous paper, we examined a class of possible conformations for helically patterned filaments in contact with a bonding surface. In particular, we investigated geometries where contact between the pattern and the surface was improved through a periodic twisting and lifting of the filament. A consequence of this lifting is that the total length of the filament projected onto the surface decreases after bonding. When the bonding character of the surface is actuated, this phenomenon can lead to both lifelike "inchworm" behavior of the filaments and ensemble movement. We illustrate, through simulation, how pattern formation may be achieved through this mechanism.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.03134v1', ['Subcellular Processes'], []]
[u'Fluidization and Active Thinning by Molecular Kinetics in Active Gels', ['David Oriola', 'Ricard Alert', 'Jaume Casademunt'], u'2016-12-09', u'We derive the constitutive equations of an active polar gel from a model for the dynamics of elastic molecules that link polar elements. Molecular binding kinetics induces the fluidization of the material, giving rise to Maxwell viscoelasticity and, provided that detailed balance is broken, to the generation of active stresses. We give explicit expressions for the transport coefficients of active gels in terms of molecular properties, including nonlinear contributions on the departure from equilibrium. In particular, when activity favors linker unbinding, we predict a decrease of viscosity with activity - active thinning - of kinetic origin, which could explain some experimental results on the cell cortex. By bridging the molecular and hydrodynamic scales, our results could help understand the interplay between molecular perturbations and the mechanics of cells and tissues.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.02936v1', ['Cell Behavior'], []]
