[u"How structure sculpts function: unveiling the contribution of anatomical connectivity to the brain's spontaneous correlation structure", ['Ruggero G. Bettinardi', 'Gustavo Deco', 'Vasilis M. Karlaftis', 'Timothy J. Van Hartevelt', 'Henrique M. Fernandes', 'Zoe Kourtzi', 'Morten L. Kringelbach', 'Gorka Zamora-Lopez'], u'2016-12-07', u"Intrinsic brain activity is characterized by highly structured co-activations between different regions, whose origin is still under debate. In this paper, we address the question whether it is possible to unveil how the underlying anatomical connectivity shape the brain's spontaneous correlation structure. We start from the assumption that in order for two nodes to exhibit large covariation, they must be exposed to similar input patterns from the entire network. We then acknowledge that information rarely spreads only along an unique route, but rather travels along all possible paths. In real networks the strength of local perturbations tends to decay as they propagate away from the sources, leading to a progressive attenuation of the original information content and, thus, of their influence. We use these notions to derive a novel analytical measure, $\\mathcal{T}$ , which quantifies the similarity of the whole-network input patterns arriving at any two nodes only due to the underlying topology, in what is a generalization of the matching index. We show that this measure of topological similarity can indeed be used to predict the contribution of network topology to the expected correlation structure, thus unveiling the mechanism behind the tight but elusive relationship between structure and function in complex networks. Finally, we use this measure to investigate brain connectivity, showing that information about the topology defined by the complex fabric of brain axonal pathways specifies to a large extent the time-average functional connectivity observed at rest.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.02243v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Tensor-Based Fusion of EEG and FMRI to Understand Neurological Changes in Schizophrenia', ['Evrim Acar', 'Yuri Levin-Schwartz', 'Vince D. Calhoun', 'Tulay Adal'], u'2016-12-07', u'Neuroimaging modalities such as functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and electroencephalography (EEG) provide information about neurological functions in complementary spatiotemporal resolutions; therefore, fusion of these modalities is expected to provide better understanding of brain activity. In this paper, we jointly analyze fMRI and multi-channel EEG signals collected during an auditory oddball task with the goal of capturing brain activity patterns that differ between patients with schizophrenia and healthy controls. Rather than selecting a single electrode or matricizing the third-order tensor that can be naturally used to represent multi-channel EEG signals, we preserve the multi-way structure of EEG data and use a coupled matrix and tensor factorization (CMTF) model to jointly analyze fMRI and EEG signals. Our analysis reveals that (i) joint analysis of EEG and fMRI using a CMTF model can capture meaningful temporal and spatial signatures of patterns that behave differently in patients and controls, and (ii) these differences and the interpretability of the associated components increase by including multiple electrodes from frontal, motor and parietal areas, but not necessarily by including all electrodes in the analysis.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.02189v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'A Multi-Pass Approach to Large-Scale Connectomics', ['Yaron Meirovitch', 'Alexander Matveev', 'Hayk Saribekyan', 'David Budden', 'David Rolnick', 'Gergely Odor', 'Seymour Knowles-Barley Thouis Raymond Jones', 'Hanspeter Pfister', 'Jeff William Lichtman', 'Nir Shavit'], u'2016-12-07', u'The field of connectomics faces unprecedented "big data" challenges. To reconstruct neuronal connectivity, automated pixel-level segmentation is required for petabytes of streaming electron microscopy data. Existing algorithms provide relatively good accuracy but are unacceptably slow, and would require years to extract connectivity graphs from even a single cubic millimeter of neural tissue. Here we present a viable real-time solution, a multi-pass pipeline optimized for shared-memory multicore systems, capable of processing data at near the terabyte-per-hour pace of multi-beam electron microscopes. The pipeline makes an initial fast-pass over the data, and then makes a second slow-pass to iteratively correct errors in the output of the fast-pass. We demonstrate the accuracy of a sparse slow-pass reconstruction algorithm and suggest new methods for detecting morphological errors. Our fast-pass approach provided many algorithmic challenges, including the design and implementation of novel shallow convolutional neural nets and the parallelization of watershed and object-merging techniques. We use it to reconstruct, from image stack to skeletons, the full dataset of Kasthuri et al. (463 GB capturing 120,000 cubic microns) in a matter of hours on a single multicore machine rather than the weeks it has taken in the past on much larger distributed systems.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.02120v1', ['Neurons and Cognition', 'Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Elusive preferred hosts or nucleic acid level selection? A commentary on: Evolutionary interpretations of mycobacteriophage biodiversity and host-range through the analysis of codon usage bias (Esposito et al. 2016)', ['Donald R. Forsdyke'], u'2016-12-06', u"While confirming the long held view that viruses do not closely imitate the use of their host's codon catalogue, Esposito and coworkers nevertheless consider it surprising that, despite having the ability to infect the same host, many mycobacteriophages share little or no genetic similarity (i.e. similarity in their GC contents and codon utilization patterns). Arguing correctly that efficient translation of a phage's proteins within a host is likely to be optimized by the phage's ability to match the host's codon usage pattern, it is concluded that the preferred host of many mycobacteriophages is not Mycobacterium smegmatis, despite their having been isolated on that organism. Thus, a virus and its elusive preferred hosts would have had similar GC percentages and codon usages, but the same virus could still infect a less-preferred host (Mycobacterium smegmatis), where the virus-host similarity would be less evident. However, there is another evolutionary interpretation.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.02035v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Signal Manifestation Trade-offs in Incoherent Feed-Forward Loops', ['Tarunendu Mapder'], u'2016-12-07', u'Signal processing in biological systems is delicately executed by specialised networks, which are modular assemblies of network motifs. The motifs are independently functional circuits found in enormous numbers in any living cell. A very common network motif is the feed-forward loop (FFL), which regulates a downstream node by an upstream one in a direct and an indirect way within the network. If the direct and indirect regulations go antagonistic, the motif is known as an incoherent FFL (ICFFL). The current study is aimed at exploring the reason for the variation in the evolutionary selection of the four types of ICFFLs. As comparative measures, I compute sensitivity amplification, adaptation precision and efficiency from the temporal dynamics and mutual information between the input-output nodes of the motifs at steady state. The ICFFL II performs very efficiently in adaptation but poor in information processing. On the other hand, ICFFL I and III are better in information transmission compared to adaptation efficiency. Which is the fittest among them under the pressure of natural selection? To sort out this puzzle, I take help from the multi-objective Pareto efficiency. The results, found in the Pareto task space, are in good agreement with the reported abundance level of all the types in eukaryotes as well as prokaryotes.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.02116v1', ['Molecular Networks'], []]
[u'Mechanical Properties of Transription', ['Stuart A. Sevier', 'Herbert LEvine'], u'2016-12-07', u'Recently the physical characterization of a number of biological processes has proven indispensable for a full understanding of natural phenomena. One such example is the mechanical properties of transcription, which have been shown to have significant effects in gene expression. In this letter we introduce a simple description of the basic physical elements of transcription where RNA elongation, RNA polymerase rotation and DNA supercoiling are coupled. The resulting framework describes the relative amount of RNA polymerase rotation and DNA supercoiling that occurs during RNA elongation. Asymptotic behavior is derived and can be used to experimentally extract unknown mechanical parameters of transcription. Incorporation of mechanical limits to RNA polymerase is accomplished yielding an equation of motion for DNA supercoiling and RNA elongation with transcriptional stalling. Important implications for gene expression, chromatin structure and genome organization are discussed.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.02108v1', ['Subcellular Processes'], []]
[u'Chemotaxis and Haptotaxis on Cellular Level', ['Aaron Brunk', 'Niklas Kolbe', 'Nikolaos Sfakianakis'], u'2016-12-07', u'Chemotaxis and haptotaxis have been a main theme in the macroscopic study of bacterial and cellular motility. In this work we investigate the influence these processes have on the shape and motility of fast migrating cells. We note that despite their biological and modelling differences, the cells exhibit many similarities in their migration. We moreover see, that after an initial adjustment phase, the cells obtain a stable shape and their motion is similar to advection.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.02345v1', ['Cell Behavior'], []]
