[u'Protein corona composition of PEGylated nanoparticles correlates strongly with amino acid composition of protein surface', ['Giovanni Settanni', 'Jiajia Zhou', 'Tongchuan Suo', 'Susanne Schottler', 'Katharina Landfester', 'Friederike Schmid', 'Volker Mailander'], u'2016-12-28', u'Extensive molecular dynamics simulations reveal that the interactions between proteins and poly(ethylene glycol)(PEG) can be described in terms of the surface composition of the proteins. PEG molecules accumulate around non-polar residues while avoiding polar ones. A solvent-accessible-surface-area model of protein adsorption on PEGylated nanoparticles accurately fits a large set of data on the composition of the protein corona recently obtained by label-free proteomic mass spectrometry.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.08814v1', ['Biomolecules'], []]
[u'Collective behavior of place and non-place neurons in the hippocampal network', ['Leenoy Meshulam', 'Jeffrey L. Gauthier', 'Carlos D. Brody', 'David W. Tank', 'William Bialek'], u'2016-12-28', u'Discussions of the hippocampus often focus on place cells, but many neurons are not place cells in any given environment. Here we describe the collective activity in such mixed populations, treating place and non-place cells on the same footing. We start with optical imaging experiments on CA1 in mice as they run along a virtual linear track, and use maximum entropy methods to approximate the distribution of patterns of activity in the population, matching the correlations between pairs of cells but otherwise assuming as little structure as possible. We find that these simple models accurately predict the activity of each neuron from the state of all the other neurons in the network, regardless of how well that neuron codes for position. These and other results suggest that place cells are not a distinct sub-network, but part of a larger system that encodes, collectively, more than just place information.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.08935v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'An FFT-based Synchronization Approach to Recognize Human Behaviors using STN-LFP Signal', ['Hosein M. Golshan', 'Adam O. Hebb', 'Sara J. Hanrahan', 'Joshua Nedrud', 'Mohammad H. Mahoor'], u'2016-12-28', u'Classification of human behavior is key to developing closed-loop Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) systems, which may be able to decrease the power consumption and side effects of the existing systems. Recent studies have shown that the Local Field Potential (LFP) signals from both Subthalamic Nuclei (STN) of the brain can be used to recognize human behavior. Since the DBS leads implanted in each STN can collect three bipolar signals, the selection of a suitable pair of LFPs that achieves optimal recognition performance is still an open problem to address. Considering the presence of synchronized aggregate activity in the basal ganglia, this paper presents an FFT-based synchronization approach to automatically select a relevant pair of LFPs and use the pair together with an SVM-based MKL classifier for behavior recognition purposes. Our experiments on five subjects show the superiority of the proposed approach compared to other methods used for behavior classification.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.08780v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'The ontogeny of discourse structure mimics the development of literature', ['Natalia Bezerra Mota', 'Sylvia Pinheiro', 'Mariano Sigman', 'Diego Fernandez Slezak', 'Guillermo Cecchi', 'Mauro Copelli', 'Sidarta Ribeiro'], u'2016-12-27', u'Discourse varies with age, education, psychiatric state and historical epoch, but the ontogenetic and cultural dynamics of discourse structure remain to be quantitatively characterized. To this end we investigated word graphs obtained from verbal reports of 200 subjects ages 2-58, and 676 literary texts spanning ~5,000 years. In healthy subjects, lexical diversity, graph size, and long-range recurrence departed from initial near-random levels through a monotonic asymptotic increase across ages, while short-range recurrence showed a corresponding decrease. These changes were explained by education and suggest a hierarchical development of discourse structure: short-range recurrence and lexical diversity stabilize after elementary school, but graph size and long-range recurrence only stabilize after high school. This gradual maturation was blurred in psychotic subjects, who maintained in adulthood a near-random structure. In literature, monotonic asymptotic changes over time were remarkable: While lexical diversity, long-range recurrence and graph size increased away from near-randomness, short-range recurrence declined, from above to below random levels. Bronze Age texts are structurally similar to childish or psychotic discourses, but subsequent texts converge abruptly to the healthy adult pattern around the onset of the Axial Age (800-200 BC), a period of pivotal cultural change. Thus, individually as well as historically, discourse maturation increases the range of word recurrence away from randomness.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.09268v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Controlling uncertainty in aptamer selection', ['Fabian Spill', 'Zohar B. Weinstein', 'Atena Irani Shemirani', 'Nga Ho', 'Darash Desai', 'Muhammad H. Zaman'], u'2016-12-28', u'The search for high-affinity aptamers for targets such as proteins, small molecules, or cancer cells remains a formidable endeavor. Systematic Evolution of Ligands by EXponential Enrichment (SELEX) offers an iterative process to discover these aptamers through evolutionary selection of high-affinity candidates from a highly diverse random pool. This randomness dictates an unknown population distribution of fitness parameters, encoded by the binding affinities, toward SELEX targets. Adding to this uncertainty, repeating SELEX under identical conditions may lead to variable outcomes. These uncertainties pose a challenge when tuning selection pressures to isolate high-affinity ligands. Here, we present a novel stochastic hybrid model that describes the evolutionary selection of aptamers in order to explore the impact of these unknowns. To our surprise, we find that even single copies of high-affinity ligands in a pool of billions can strongly influence population dynamics, yet their survival is highly dependent on chance. We perform Monte Carlo simulations to explore the impact of environmental parameters, such as the target concentration, on selection efficiency in SELEX and identify new strategies to control these uncertainties to ultimately improve the outcome and speed of this time- and resource-intensive process.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.08995v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Evolution of cooperation and costly incentives in the continuous snowdrift game', ['Tatsuya Sasaki'], u'2016-12-28', u'Game theory research on the snowdrift game has showed that gradual evolution of the continuously varying level of cooperation in joint enterprises can demonstrate evolutionary merging as well as evolutionary branching. However, little is known about the consequences of changes in diversity at the cooperation level. In the present study I consider effects of costly rewards on the continuous snowdrift game. I show that not evolutionary merging but evolutionary branching can promote the emergence of pool reward, which can then enhance social welfare.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.08886v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u"Genotypic complexity of Fisher's geometric model", ['Sungmin Hwang', 'Su-Chan Park', 'Joachim Krug'], u'2016-12-28', u"Fisher's geometric model was originally introduced to argue that complex adaptations must occur in small steps because of pleiotropic constraints. When supplemented with the assumption of additivity of mutational effects on phenotypic traits, it provides a simple mechanism for the emergence of genotypic epistasis from the nonlinear mapping of phenotypes to fitness. Of particular interest is the occurrence of sign epistasis, which is a necessary condition for multipeaked genotypic fitness landscapes. Here we compute the probability that a pair of randomly chosen mutations interacts sign-epistatically, which is found to decrease algebraically with increasing phenotypic dimension $n$, and varies non-monotonically with the distance from the phenotypic optimum. We then derive asymptotic expressions for the mean number of fitness maxima in genotypic landscapes composed of all combinations of $L$ random mutations. This number increases exponentially with $L$, and the corresponding growth rate is used as a measure of the complexity of the genotypic landscape. The dependence of the complexity on the parameters of the model is found to be surprisingly rich, and three distinct phases characterized by different landscape structures are identified. The complexity generally decreases with increasing phenotypic dimension, but a non-monotonic dependence on $n$ is found in certain regimes. Our results inform the interpretation of experiments where the parameters of Fisher's model have been inferred from data, and help to elucidate which features of empirical fitness landscapes can (or cannot) be described by this model.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.08790v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Flux ratios and channel structures', ['Shuguan Ji', 'Bob Eisenberg', 'Weishi Liu'], u'2016-12-27', u"We investigate Ussing's unidirectional fluxes and flux ratios of charged tracers motivated particularly by the insightful proposal of Hodgkin and Keynes on a relation between flux ratios and channel structure. Our study is based on analysis of quasi-one-dimensional Poisson-Nernst-Planck type models for ionic flows through membrane channels. This class of models includes the Poisson equation that determines the electrical potential from the charges present and is in that sense consistent. Ussing's flux ratios generally depend on all physical parameters involved in ionic flows, particularly, on bulk conditions and channel structures. Certain setups of ion channel experiments result in flux ratios that are universal in the sense that their values depend on bulk conditions but not on channel structures; other setups lead to flux ratios that are specific in the sense that their values depend on channel structures too. Universal flux ratios could serve some purposes better than specific flux ratios in some circumstances and worse in other circumstances. We focus on two treatments of tracer flux measurements that serve as estimators of important properties of ion channels. The first estimator determines the flux of the main ion species from measurements of the flux of its tracer. Our analysis suggests a better experimental design so that the flux ratio of the tracer flux and the main ion flux is universal. The second treatment of tracer fluxes concerns ratios of fluxes and experimental setups that try to determine some properties of channel structure. We analyze the two widely used experimental designs of estimating flux ratios and show that the most widely used method depends on the spatial distribution of permanent charge so this flux ratio is specific and thus allows estimation of (some of) the properties of that permanent charge, even with ideal ionic solutions. ...", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.08742v1', ['Other'], []]
[u'Inference of Phylogenetic Trees from the Knowledge of Rare Evolutionary Events', ['Marc Hellmuth', 'Maribel Hernandez-Rosales', 'Yangjing Long', 'Peter F. Stadler'], u'2016-12-29', u'Rare events have played an increasing role in molecular phylogenetics as potentially homoplasy-poor characters. In this contribution we analyze the phylogenetic information content from a combinatorial point of view by considering the binary relation on the set of taxa defined by the existence of single event separating two taxa. We show that the graph-representation of this relation must be a tree. Moreover, we characterize completely the relationship between the tree of such relations and the underlying phylogenetic tree. With directed operations such as tandem-duplication-random-loss events in mind we demonstrate how non-symmetric information constrains the position of the root in the partially reconstructed phylogeny.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.09093v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'A Method for Massively Parallel Analysis of Time Series', ['Yi H. Yan', 'Elizabeth D. Trippe', 'Juan B. Gutierrez'], u'2016-12-27', u'Quantification of system-wide perturbations from time series -omic data (i.e. a large number of variables with multiple measures in time) provides the basis for many downstream hypothesis generating tools. Here we propose a method, Massively Parallel Analysis of Time Series (MPATS) that can be applied to quantify transcriptome-wide perturbations. The proposed method characterizes each individual time series through its $\\ell_1$ distance to every other time series. Application of MPATS to compare biological conditions produces a ranked list of time series based on their magnitude of differences in their $\\ell_1$ representation, which then can be further interpreted through enrichment analysis. The performance of MPATS was validated through its application to a study of IFN$\\alpha$ dendritic cell responses to viral and bacterial infection. In conjunction with Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA), MPATS produced consistently identified signature gene sets of anti-bacterial and anti-viral response. Traditional methods such as EDGE and GSEA Time Series (GSEA-TS) failed to identify the relevant signature gene sets. Furthermore, the results of MPATS highlighted the crucial functional difference between STAT1/STAT2 during anti-viral and anti-bacterial response. In our simulation study, MPATS exhibited acceptable performance with small group size (n = 3), when the appropriate effect size is considered. This method can be easily adopted for other -omic data types.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.08759v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Compensatory interactions to stabilize multiple steady states or mitigate the effects of multiple deregulations in biological networks', ['Gang Yang', 'Colin Campbell', 'Reka Albert'], u'2016-12-28', u"Complex diseases can be modeled as damage to intracellular networks that results in abnormal cell behaviors. Network-based dynamic models such as Boolean models have been employed to model a variety of biological systems including those corresponding to disease. Previous work designed compensatory interactions to stabilize an attractor of a Boolean network after single node damage. We generalize this method to a multinode damage scenario and to the simultaneous stabilization of multiple steady state attractors. We classify the emergent situations, with a special focus on combinatorial effects, and characterize each class through simulation. We explore how the structural and functional properties of the network affect its resilience and its possible repair scenarios. We demonstrate the method's applicability to two intracellular network models relevant to cancer. This work has implications in designing prevention strategies for complex disease.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.08952v1', ['Molecular Networks'], []]
[u'The structure of MESSI biological systems', ['Mercedes Perez Millan', 'Alicia Dickenstein'], u'2016-12-27', u"We introduce a general framework for biological systems, called MESSI systems, that describe Modifications of type Enzyme-Substrate or Swap with Intermediates, and we prove general results based on the network structure. Many post-translational modification networks are MESSI systems. For example: the motifs in Feliu-Wiuf'12, sequential distributive multisite phosphorylation networks, sequential processive multisite phosphorylation networks, most of the examples in Angeli et al.'07, phosphorylation cascades, two component systems as in Kothamachu et al.'15, the bacterial EnvZ/OmpR network in Shinar-Feinberg'10 and all linear networks. We show that, under mass-action kinetics, MESSI systems are conservative. We simplify the study of steady states of these systems by explicit elimination of intermediate complexes (inspired by Feliu-Wiuf'12,13 and Thomson-Gunawardena'09) and we define an important subclass of MESSI systems with toric steady states. We give for MESSI systems with toric steady states an easy algorithm to determine the capacity for multistationarity. In this case, the algorithm provides rate constants for which multistationarity takes place, based on the theory of oriented matroids.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.08763v1', ['Molecular Networks'], []]
[u'Chase-and-run dynamics in cell motility and the molecular rupture of interacting active elastic dimers', ['David Mayett', 'Nicholas Bitten', 'Moumita Das', 'J. M. Schwarz'], u'2016-12-29', u'Cell migration in morphogenesis and cancer metastasis typically involves interplay between different cell types. We construct and study a minimal, one-dimensional model comprised of two different motile cells with each cell represented as an active elastic dimer. The interaction between the two cells via cadherins is modeled as a spring that can rupture beyond a threshold force as it undergoes dynamic loading via the attached motile cells. We obtain a phase diagram consisting of chase-and-run dynamics and clumping dynamics as a function of the stiffness of the interaction spring and the threshold force. We also find that while feedback between cadherins and cell-substrate interaction via integrins accentuates the chase-run behavior, feedback is not necessary for it.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.09052v1', ['Cell Behavior'], []]
[u'A mechano-chemical feedback underlies co-existence of qualitatively distinct cell polarity patterns within diverse cell populations', ['JinSeok Park', 'William R. Holmes', 'Sung-Hoon Lee', 'Hong-Nam Kim', 'Deok-Ho Kim', 'Moon Kyu Kwak', 'Chiaochun Joanne Wang', 'Kahp-Yang Suh', 'Leah Edelstein-Keshet', 'Andre Levchenko'], u'2016-12-28', u'Cell polarization and directional cell migration can display random, persistent and oscillatory dynamic patterns. However, it is not clear if these polarity patterns can be explained by the same underlying regulatory mechanism. Here, we show that random, persistent and oscillatory migration accompanied by polarization can simultaneously occur in populations of melanoma cells derived from tumors with different degrees of aggressiveness. We demonstrate that all these patterns and the probabilities of their occurrence are quantitatively accounted for by a simple mechanism involving a spatially distributed, mechano-chemical feedback coupling the dynamically changing extracellular matrix (ECM)-cell contacts to the activation of signaling downstream of the Rho-family small GTPases. This mechanism is supported by a predictive mathematical model and extensive experimental validation, and can explain previously reported results for diverse cell types. In melanoma, this mechanism also accounts for the effects of genetic and environmental perturbations, including mutations linked to invasive cell spread. The resulting mechanistic understanding of cell polarity quantitatively captures the relationship between population variability and phenotypic plasticity, with the potential to account for a wide variety of cell migration states in diverse pathological and physiological conditions.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.08948v1', ['Cell Behavior'], []]
