[u'Towards multistage modelling of protein dynamics with monomeric Myc oncoprotein as an example', ['Jiaojiao Liu', 'Jin Dai', 'Jianfeng He', 'Antti J. Niemi', 'Nevena Ilieva'], u'2016-12-05', u"We propose to combine a mean field approach with all atom molecular dynamics into a multistage algorithm that can model protein folding and dynamics over very long time periods yet with atomic level precision. As an example we investigate an isolated monomeric Myc oncoprotein that has been implicated in carcinomas including those in colon, breast and lungs. Under physiological conditions a monomeric Myc is presumed to be an example of intrinsically disordered proteins, that pose a serious challenge to existing modelling techniques. We argue that a room temperature monomeric Myc is in a dynamical state, it oscillates between different conformations that we identify. For this we adopt the C-alpha backbone of Myc in a crystallographic heteromer as an initial Ansatz for the monomeric structure. We construct a multisoliton of the pertinent Landau free energy, to describe the C-alpha profile with ultra high precision. We use Glauber dynamics to resolve how the multisoliton responds to repeated increases and decreases in ambient temperature. We confirm that the initial structure is unstable in isolation. We reveal a highly degenerate ground state landscape, an attractive set towards which Glauber dynamics converges in the limit of vanishing ambient temperature. We analyse the thermal stability of this Glauber attractor using room temperature molecular dynamics. We identify and scrutinise a particularly stable subset in which the two helical segments of the original multisoliton align in parallel, next to each other. During the MD time evolution of a representative structure from this subset, we observe intermittent quasiparticle oscillations along the C-terminal alpha-helix, some of which resemble a translating Davydov's Amide-I soliton. We propose that the presence of oscillatory motion is in line with the expected intrinsically disordered character of Myc.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.01396v1', ['Biomolecules'], []]
[u'Finding the minimum energy conformation of protein-like heteropolymers by Greedy Neighborhood Search', ['Joon Suk Huh'], u'2016-12-03', u'A global optimization method called Greedy Neighborhood Search (GNS) and a novel conformational sampling method using a spherical distribution is proposed to find the minimum energy conformation of a protein-like heteropolymer model called AB model. The AB model consists of hydrophobic (A) and hydrophilic (B) monomers analogous to the real proteins. The AB model in three-dimensional space is represented by simple bead-rod chain system which is identical to the one-bead protein model. The minimum energy conformations of four different sequences consisting of 13, 21, 34, and 55 monomers are obtained by the GNS method. The minimum energies found are lower than those obtained by other methods. Also the minimum energy conformations found have a similarity with the real proteins forming a single hydrophobic core.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.00949v1', ['Biomolecules'], []]
[u'Cortical Brain Computer Interface for Closed-Loop Deep Brain Stimulation', ['Jeffrey A. Herron', 'Margaret C. Thompson', 'Timothy Brown', 'Howard J. Chizeck', 'Jeffrey G. Ojemann', 'Andrew L. Ko'], u'2016-12-05', u"Essential Tremor is the most common neurological movement disorder. This progressive disease causes uncontrollable rhythmic motions -most often affecting the patient's dominant upper extremity- that occur during volitional movement and make it difficult for the patient to perform everyday tasks. Medication may also become ineffective as the disorder progresses. Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the thalamus is an effective means of treating this condition when medication fails. In current use, however, clinicians set the patient's stimulator to apply stimulation at all times -whether it is needed or not. This practice leads to excess power use, and more rapid depletion of batteries that require surgical replacement. In the work described here, for the first time, neural sensing of movement (using chronically-implanted cortical electrodes) is used to enable or disable stimulation for tremor. Therapeutic stimulation is delivered only when the patient is actively using their effected limb, thereby reducing the total stimulation applied, and potentially extending the lifetime of surgically-implanted batteries. This work, which involves both implanted and external subsystems, paves the way for the future fully-implanted closed-loop deep brain stimulators.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.01229v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'The grammar of mammalian brain capacity', ['A Rodriguez', 'R Granger'], u'2016-12-04', u'Uniquely human abilities may arise from special-purpose brain circuitry, or from concerted general capacity increases due to our outsized brains. We forward a novel hypothesis of the relation between computational capacity and brain size, linking mathematical formalisms of grammars with the allometric increases in cortical-subcortical ratios that arise in large brains. In sum, i) thalamocortical loops compute formal grammars; ii) successive cortical regions describe grammar rewrite rules of increasing size; iii) cortical-subcortical ratios determine the quantity of stacks in single-stack pushdown grammars; iii) quantitative increase of stacks yields grammars with qualitatively increased computational power. We arrive at the specific conjecture that human brain capacity is equivalent to that of indexed grammars, far short of full Turing-computable (recursively enumerable) systems. The work provides a candidate explanatory account of a range of existing human and animal data, addressing longstanding questions of how repeated similar brain algorithms can be successfully applied to apparently dissimilar computational tasks (e.g., perceptual versus cognitive, phonological versus syntactic); and how quantitative increases to brains can confer qualitative changes to their computational repertoire.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.01150v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'WKB theory of large deviations in stochastic populations', ['Michael Assaf', 'Baruch Meerson'], u'2016-12-05', u'Stochasticity can play an important role in the dynamics of biologically relevant populations. These span a broad range of scales: from intra-cellular populations of molecules to population of cells and then to groups of plants, animals and people. Large deviations in stochastic population dynamics - such as those determining population extinction, fixation or switching between different states - are presently in a focus of attention of statistical physicists. We review recent progress in applying different variants of dissipative WKB approximation (after Wentzel, Kramers and Brillouin) to this class of problems. The WKB approximation allows one to evaluate the mean time and/or probability of population extinction, fixation and switches resulting from either intrinsic (demographic) noise, or a combination of the demographic noise and environmental variations, deterministic or random. We mostly cover well-mixed populations, single and multiple, but also briefly consider populations on heterogeneous networks and spatial populations. The spatial setting also allows one to study large fluctuations of the speed of biological invasions. Finally, we briefly discuss possible directions of future work.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.01470v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'A continuum approximation to the population dynamics of periodical cicadas', ['Jon Machta', 'Julie Blackwood', 'Andrew Noble', 'Andrew Liebhold', 'Alan Hastings'], u'2016-12-05', u'In addition to their unusually long life cycle, periodical cicadas, Magicicada spp., provide an exceptional example of spatially synchronized life stage phenology in nature. Within regions (broods) spanning 50,000 to 500,000 km^2, adults emerge synchronously every 13 or 17 years. While satiation of avian predators is believed to be a key component of the ability of these populations to reach high densities, it is not clear why populations at a single location remain entirely synchronized. We develop non-linear Leslie matrix-type models of periodical cicadas that include predation-driven Allee effects and competition in addition to reproduction and survival. Using both numerical and analytical techniques, we demonstrate the observed presence of a single brood critically depends on the relationship between fecundity, competition, and predation. We analyze the single-brood steady state in the large life-span limit using a tractable continuum approximation and show that it yields a good approximation to the numerical results for the biologically relevant case of a 17-year lifespan.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.01429v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Universality of the SIS prevalence in networks', ['Piet Van Mieghem'], u'2016-12-05', u'Epidemic models are increasingly used in real-world networks to understand diffusion phenomena (such as the spread of diseases, emotions, innovations, failures) or the transport of information (such as news, memes in social on-line networks). A new analysis of the prevalence, the expected number of infected nodes in a network, is presented and physically interpreted. The analysis method is based on spectral decomposition and leads to a universal, analytic curve, that can bound the time-varying prevalence in any finite time interval. Moreover, that universal curve also applies to various types of Susceptible-Infected-Susceptible (SIS) (and Susceptible-Infected-Removed (SIR)) infection processes, with both homogenous and heterogeneous infection characteristics (curing and infection rates), in temporal and even disconnected graphs and in SIS processes with and without self-infections. The accuracy of the universal curve is comparable to that of well-established mean-field approximations.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.01386v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Universal statistics of selected values', ['Matteo Smerlak', 'Ahmed Youssef'], u'2016-12-02', u'Selection, the tendency of some traits to become more frequent than others in a population under the influence of some (natural or artificial) agency, is a key component of Darwinian evolution and countless other natural and social phenomena. Yet a general theory of selection, analogous to the Fisher-Tippett-Gnedenko theory of extreme events, is lacking. Here we introduce a probabilistic definition of selection and show that selected values are attracted to a universal family of limiting distributions. The universality classes and scaling exponents are determined by the tail thickness of the random variable under selection. Our results are supported by data from molecular biology, agriculture and sport.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.00843v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Positive blood culture detection in time series data using a BiLSTM network', ['Leen De Baets', 'Joeri Ruyssinck', 'Thomas Peiffer', 'Johan Decruyenaere', 'Filip De Turck', 'Femke Ongenae', 'Tom Dhaene'], u'2016-12-03', u'The presence of bacteria or fungi in the bloodstream of patients is abnormal and can lead to life-threatening conditions. A computational model based on a bidirectional long short-term memory artificial neural network, is explored to assist doctors in the intensive care unit to predict whether examination of blood cultures of patients will return positive. As input it uses nine monitored clinical parameters, presented as time series data, collected from 2177 ICU admissions at the Ghent University Hospital. Our main goal is to determine if general machine learning methods and more specific, temporal models, can be used to create an early detection system. This preliminary research obtains an area of 71.95% under the precision recall curve, proving the potential of temporal neural networks in this context.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.00962v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Multi-stage Clustering of Breast Cancer for Precision Medicine', ['Chenzhe Qian'], u'2016-12-02', u'Cancer has become one of the most widespread diseases in the world. Specifically, breast cancer is diagnosed more often than any other type of cancer. However, breast cancer patients and their individual tumors are often unique. Identifying the underlying genetic phenotype can lead to precision (personalized) medicine. Tailoring medical treatment strategies to best fit the needs of individual patients can dramatically improve their health. Such an approach requires sufficient knowledge of the patients and the diseases, which is currently unavailable to practitioners. This study focuses on breast cancer and proposes a novel two-stage clustering method to partition patients into hierarchical groups. The first stage is broad grouping, which is based on phenotypes such as demographic information and clinical features. The second stage is fine grouping based on genomic characteristics, such as copy number variation and somatic mutation, of patients in a subgroup resulting from the first stage. Generally, this framework offers a mechanism to mix multiple forms of data, both phenotypic and genomic, to most effectively define individual patients for personalized predictions. This method provides the ability to detect correlation among all factors.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.01413v1', ['Quantitative Methods', 'Genomics'], []]
[u'Probabilistic Broken-Stick Model: A Regression Algorithm for Irregularly Sampled Data with Application to eGFR', ['Norman Poh', 'Simon Bull', 'Santosh Tirunagari', 'Nicholas Cole', 'Simon de Lusignan'], u'2016-11-30', u"In order for clinicians to manage disease progression and make effective decisions about drug dosage, treatment regimens or scheduling follow up appointments, it is necessary to be able to identify both short and long-term trends in repeated biomedical measurements. However, this is complicated by the fact that these measurements are irregularly sampled and influenced by both genuine physiological changes and external factors. In their current forms, existing regression algorithms often do not fulfil all of a clinician's requirements for identifying short-term events while still being able to identify long-term trends in disease progression. Therefore, in order to balance both short term interpretability and long term flexibility, an extension to broken-stick regression models is proposed in order to make them more suitable for modelling clinical time series. The proposed probabilistic broken-stick model can robustly estimate both short-term and long-term trends simultaneously, while also accommodating the unequal length and irregularly sampled nature of clinical time series. Moreover, since the model is parametric and completely generative, its first derivative provides a long-term non-linear estimate of the annual rate of change in the measurements more reliably than linear regression. The benefits of the proposed model are illustrated using estimated glomerular filtration rate as a case study for managing patients with chronic kidney disease.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.01409v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Phosphorylation potential and chemical fluxes govern the biological performance of multiple PdP cycles', ['Teng Wang', 'Chenzi Jin', 'Fangting Li'], u'2016-12-05', u'Fission yeast G2/M transition is regulated by a biochemical reaction networks which contains four components: Cdc13, Cdc2, Wee1, and Cdc25. This circuit is characterized by the ultrasensitive responses of Wee1 or Cdc25 to Cdc13/Cdc2 activity, and the bistability of Cdc2 activation. Previous work has shown that this bistability is governed by phosphorylation energy. In this article, we developed the kinetic model of this circuit and conducted further thermodynamic analysis on the role of phosphorylation energy (&[Delta]G). We showed that level &[Delta]G shapes the response curves of Wee1 or Cdc25 to Cdc2 and governs the intrinsic noise level of Cdc2 activity. More importantly, the mutually antagonistic chemical fluxes around the PdP cycles in G2/M circuit were shown to act as a stabilizer of Cdc2 activity against &[Delta]G fluctuations. These results suggests the fundamental role of free energy and chemical fluxes on the sensitivity, bistability and robustness of G2/M transition.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.01233v1', ['Molecular Networks'], [u'School of Life Sciences, Peking University, Beijing, China', u'School of Physics, Peking University, Beijing, China']]
[u'Regime shifts driven by dynamic correlations in gene expression noise', ['Yogita Sharma', 'Partha Sharathi Dutta'], u'2016-12-04', u'Gene expression is a noisy process that leads to regime shift between alternative steady states among individual living cells, inducing phenotypic variability. The effects of white noise on the regime shift in bistable systems have been well characterized, however little is known about such effects of colored noise (noise with non-zero correlation time). Here, we show that noise correlation time, by considering a genetic circuit of autoactivation, can have significant effect on the regime shift in gene expression. We demonstrate this theoretically, using stochastic potential, stationary probability density function and first-passage time based on the Fokker-Planck description, where the Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process is used to model colored noise. We find that increase in noise correlation time in degradation rate can induce a regime shift from low to high protein concentration state and enhance the bistable regime, while noise in basal rate makes system steady states more stable and amplify the protein production. We then show how cross-correlated colored noises in basal and degradation rates can induce regime shifts from low to high protein concentration state, but reduce the bistable regime. In addition, we show that early warning indicators can also be used to predict shifts between distinct phenotypic states in gene expression. Predictions that a cell is about to shift to a harmful phenotype could improve early therapeutic intervention in complex human diseases.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.01104v1', ['Molecular Networks', 'Subcellular Processes'], []]
[u'Dynamics in Steady State In Vitro Acto-Myosin Networks', ['Adar Sonn-Segev', 'Anne Bernheim-Groswasser', 'Yael Roichman'], u'2016-11-29', u'It is well known that many biochemical processes in the cell such as gene regulation, growth signals and activation of ion channels, rely on mechanical stimuli. However, the mechanism by which mechanical signals propagate through cells is not as well understood. In this review we focus on stress propagation in a minimal model for cell elasticity, actomyosin networks, which are comprised of a sub-family of cytoskeleton proteins. After giving an overview of th actomyosin network components, structure and evolution we review stress propagation in these materials as measured through the correlated motion of tracer beads. We also discuss the possibility to extract structural features of these networks from the same experiments. We show that stress transmission through these networks has two pathways, a quickly dissipative one through the bulk, and a long ranged weakly dissipative one through the pre-stressed actin network.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1611.09551v1', ['Subcellular Processes'], []]
[u'Large scale modeling of antimicrobial resistance with interpretable classifiers', ['Alexandre Drouin', 'Frederic Raymond', 'Gael Letarte St-Pierre', 'Mario Marchand', 'Jacques Corbeil', 'Francois Laviolette'], u'2016-12-03', u'Antimicrobial resistance is an important public health concern that has implications in the practice of medicine worldwide. Accurately predicting resistance phenotypes from genome sequences shows great promise in promoting better use of antimicrobial agents, by determining which antibiotics are likely to be effective in specific clinical cases. In healthcare, this would allow for the design of treatment plans tailored for specific individuals, likely resulting in better clinical outcomes for patients with bacterial infections. In this work, we present the recent work of Drouin et al. (2016) on using Set Covering Machines to learn highly interpretable models of antibiotic resistance and complement it by providing a large scale application of their method to the entire PATRIC database. We report prediction results for 36 new datasets and present the Kover AMR platform, a new web-based tool allowing the visualization and interpretation of the generated models.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.01030v1', ['Genomics'], []]
