[u'Emerging Frontiers of Neuroengineering: A Network Science of Brain Connectivity', ['Danielle S. Bassett', 'Ankit N. Khambhati', 'Scott T. Grafton'], u'2016-12-23', u"Neuroengineering is faced with unique challenges in repairing or replacing complex neural systems that are composed of many interacting parts. These interactions form intricate patterns over large spatiotemporal scales, and produce emergent behaviors that are difficult to predict from individual elements. Network science provides a particularly appropriate framework in which to study and intervene in such systems, by treating neural elements (cells, volumes) as nodes in a graph and neural interactions (synapses, white matter tracts) as edges in that graph. Here, we review the emerging discipline of network neuroscience, which uses and develops tools from graph theory to better understand and manipulate neural systems, from micro- to macroscales. We present examples of how human brain imaging data is being modeled with network analysis and underscore potential pitfalls. We then highlight current computational and theoretical frontiers, and emphasize their utility in informing diagnosis and monitoring, brain-machine interfaces, and brain stimulation. A flexible and rapidly evolving enterprise, network neuroscience provides a set of powerful approaches and fundamental insights critical to the neuroengineer's toolkit.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.08059v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Double Inverse Stochastic Resonance with Dynamic Synapses', ['M. Uzuntarla', 'J. J. Torres', 'P. So', 'M. Ozer', 'E. Barreto'], u'2016-12-23', u'We investigate the behavior of a model neuron that receives a biophysically-realistic noisy post-synaptic current based on uncorrelated spiking activity from a large number of afferents. We show that, with static synapses, such noise can give rise to inverse stochastic resonance (ISR) as a function of the presynaptic firing rate. We compare this to the case with dynamic synapses that feature short-term synaptic plasticity, and show that the interval of presynaptic firing rate over which ISR exists can be extended or diminished. We consider both short-term depression and facilitation. Interestingly, we find that a double inverse stochastic resonance (DISR), with two distinct wells centered at different presynaptic firing rates, can appear.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.07929v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'A State Space Approach for Piecewise-Linear Recurrent Neural Networks for Reconstructing Nonlinear Dynamics from Neural Measurements', ['Daniel Durstewitz'], u'2016-12-23', u'The computational properties of neural systems are often thought to be implemented in terms of their network dynamics. Hence, recovering the system dynamics from experimentally observed neuronal time series, like multiple single-unit (MSU) recordings or neuroimaging data, is an important step toward understanding its computations. Ideally, one would not only seek a state space representation of the dynamics, but would wish to have access to its governing equations for in-depth analysis. Recurrent neural networks (RNNs) are a computationally powerful and dynamically universal formal framework which has been extensively studied from both the computational and the dynamical systems perspective. Here we develop a semi-analytical maximum-likelihood estimation scheme for piecewise-linear RNNs (PLRNNs) within the statistical framework of state space models, which accounts for noise in both the underlying latent dynamics and the observation process. The Expectation-Maximization algorithm is used to infer the latent state distribution, through a global Laplace approximation, and the PLRNN parameters iteratively. After validating the procedure on toy examples, the approach is applied to MSU recordings from the rodent anterior cingulate cortex obtained during performance of a classical working memory task, delayed alternation. A model with 5 states turned out to be sufficient to capture the essential computational dynamics underlying task performance, including stimulus-selective delay activity. The estimated models were rarely multi-stable, but rather were tuned to exhibit slow dynamics in the vicinity of a bifurcation point. In summary, the present work advances a semi-analytical (thus reasonably fast) maximum-likelihood estimation framework for PLRNNs that may enable to recover the relevant dynamics underlying observed neuronal time series, and directly link them to computational properties.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.07846v1', ['Neurons and Cognition', 'Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Tradeoffs between microbial growth phases lead to frequency-dependent and non-transitive selection', ['Michael Manhart', 'Bharat V. Adkar', 'Eugene I. Shakhnovich'], u'2016-12-23', u'Microbial populations undergo multiple phases of growth, including a lag phase, an exponential growth phase, and a stationary phase. Therefore mutations can improve the frequency of a genotype not only by increasing its growth rate, but also by decreasing the lag time or adjusting the yield (resource efficiency). Furthermore, many mutations will be pleiotropic, affecting multiple phases simultaneously. The contribution of multiple life-history traits to selection is a critical question for evolutionary biology as we seek to predict the evolutionary fates of mutations. Here we use a simple model of microbial growth to quantify how these multiple phases contribute to selection. We find that there are two distinct components of selection corresponding to the growth and lag phases, while the yield modulates their relative importance. Despite its simplicity, the model predicts nontrivial population dynamics when mutations induce tradeoffs between phases. Multiple strains can coexist over long times due to frequency-dependent selection, and strains can engage in rock-paper-scissors interactions due to non-transitive selection. We characterize the environmental conditions and patterns of traits necessary to realize these phenomena, which we show to be readily accessible to experiments. Our results provide a theoretical framework for analyzing high-throughput measurements of microbial growth traits, especially interpreting the pleiotropy and correlations between traits across mutants. This work also highlights the need for more comprehensive measurements of selection in simple microbial systems, where the concept of an ordinary fitness landscape breaks down.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.07908v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u"Speciation: Goldschmidt's Heresy, Once Supported by Gould and Dawkins, is Again Reinstated", ['Donald R. Forsdyke'], u'2016-12-22', u'The view that the initiation of branching into two sympatric species may not require natural selection emerged in Victorian times (Fleeming Jenkin, George Romanes, William Bateson). In the 1980s paleontologist Steven Jay Gould gave a theoretical underpinning of this non-genic "chromosomal" view, thus reinstating Richard Goldschmidt\'s "heresy" of the 1930s. From modelling studies with computer-generated "biomorphs," zoologist Richard Dawkins also affirmed Goldschmidt, proclaiming the "evolution of evolvability." However, in the 1990s, while Gould and Dawkins were recanting, bioinformatic, biochemical and cytological studies were providing a deeper underpinning. In 2001 this came under attack from leaders in the field who favored Dawkins\' genic emphasis. Now, with growing evidence from multiple sources, we can reinstate again Goldschmidt\'s view and clarify its nineteenth century roots.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.07836v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Embedding of biological distribution networks with differing environmental constraints', ['Lia Papadopoulos', 'Pablo Blinder', 'Henrik Ronellenfitsch', 'Florian Klimm', 'Eleni Katifori', 'David Kleinfeld', 'Danielle S. Bassett'], u'2016-12-23', u'Distribution networks -- from vasculature to urban transportation systems -- are prevalent in both the natural and consumer worlds. These systems are intrinsically physical in composition and are embedded into real space, properties that lead to constraints on their topological organization. In this study, we compare and contrast two types of biological distribution networks: mycelial fungi and the vasculature system on the surface of rodent brains. Both systems are alike in that they must route resources efficiently, but they are also inherently distinct in terms of their growth mechanisms, and in that fungi are not attached to a larger organism and must often function in unregulated and varied environments. We begin by uncovering a common organizational principle -- Rentian scaling -- that manifests as hierarchical network layout in both physical and topological space. Simulated models of distribution networks optimized for transport in the presence of fluctuations are also shown to exhibit this feature in their embedding, with similar scaling exponents. However, we also find clear differences in how the fungi and vasculature balance tradeoffs in material cost, efficiency, and robustness. While the vasculature appear well optimized for low cost, but relatively high efficiency, the fungi tend to form more expensive but in turn more robust networks. These differences may be driven by the distinct functions that each system must perform, and the different habitats in which they reside. As a whole, this work demonstrates that distribution networks contain a set of common, emergent design features, as well as tailored optimizations.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.08058v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Optimal decoding of information from a genetic network', ['Mariela D. Petkova', 'Gasper Tkacik', 'William Bialek', 'Eric F. Wieschaus', 'Thomas Gregor'], u'2016-12-23', u"Gene expression levels carry information about signals that have functional significance for the organism. Using the gap gene network in the fruit fly embryo as an example, we show how this information can be decoded, building a dictionary that translates expression levels into a map of implied positions. The optimal decoder makes use of graded variations in absolute expression level, resulting in positional estimates that are precise to ~1% of the embryo's length. We test this optimal decoder by analyzing gap gene expression in embryos lacking some of the primary maternal inputs to the network. The resulting maps are distorted, and these distortions predict, with no free parameters, the positions of expression stripes for the pair-rule genes in the mutant embryos.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.08084v1', ['Molecular Networks'], []]
[u'Cell reprogramming modelled as transitions in a hierarchy of cell cycle', ['R Hannam', 'A Annibale', 'R Kuehn'], u'2016-12-23', u'We construct a model of cell reprogramming (the conversion of fully differentiated cells to a state of pluripotency, known as induced pluripotent stem cells, or iPSCs) which builds on key elements of cell biology viz. cell cycles and cell lineages. Although reprogramming has been demonstrated experimentally, much of the underlying processes governing cell fate decisions remain unknown. This work aims to bridge this gap by modelling cell types as a set of hierarchically related dynamical attractors representing cell cycles. Stages of the cell cycle are characterised by the configuration of gene expression levels, and reprogramming corresponds to triggering transitions between such configurations. Two mechanisms were found for reprogramming in a two level hierarchy: cycle specific perturbations and a noise-induced switching. The former corresponds to a \\emph{directed} perturbation that induces a transition into a cycle state of a different cell type in the potency hierarchy (mainly a stem cell) whilst the latter is a priori undirected and could be induced, e.g., by a (stochastic) change in the cellular environment. These reprogramming protocols were found to be effective in large regimes of the parameter space and make specific predictions concerning reprogramming dynamics which are broadly in line with experimental findings.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.08064v1', ['Molecular Networks', 'Cell Behavior'], []]
[u'Robustness of synthetic oscillators in growing and dividing cells', ['Joris Paijmans', 'David K Lubensky', 'Pieter Rein ten Wolde'], u'2016-12-23', u'Synthetic biology sets out to implement new functions in cells, and to develop a deeper understanding of biological design principles. In 2000, Elowitz and Leibler showed that by rational design of the reaction network, and using existing biological components, they could create a network that exhibits periodic gene expression, dubbed the repressilator (Elowitz and Leibler, Nature, 2000). More recently, Stricker et al. presented another synthetic oscillator, called the dual-feedback oscillator (Stricker et al., 2008), which is more stable. How the stability of these oscillators is affected by the intrinsic noise of the interactions between the components and the stochastic expression of their genes, has been studied in considerable detail. However, as all biological oscillators reside in growing and dividing cells, an important question is how these oscillators are perturbed by the cell cycle. In previous work we showed that the periodic doubling of the gene copy numbers due to DNA replication can couple not only natural, circadian oscillators to the cell cycle (Paijmans et al., PNAS, \\textbf{113}, 4063, (2016)), but also these synthetic oscillators. Here we expand this study. We find that the strength of the locking between oscillators depends not only on the positions of the genes on the chromosome, but also on the noise in the timing of gene replication: noise tends to weaken the coupling. Yet, even in the limit of high levels of noise in the replication times of the genes, both synthetic oscillators show clear signatures of locking to the cell cycle. This work enhances our understanding of the design of robust biological oscillators inside growing and diving cells.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.07992v1', ['Subcellular Processes'], []]
[u'Criticality in Cell Differentiation', ['Indrani Bose', 'Mainak Pal'], u'2016-12-23', u'Cell differentiation is an important process in living organisms. Differentiation is mostly based on binary decisions with the progenitor cells choosing between two specific lineages. The differentiation dynamics have both deterministic and stochastic components. Several theoretical studies suggest that cell differentiation is a bifurcation phenomenon, well-known in dynamical systems theory. The bifurcation point has the character of a critical point with the system dynamics exhibiting specific features in its vicinity. These include the critical slowing down, rising variance and lag-1 autocorrelation function, strong correlations between the fluctuations of key variables and non-Gaussianity in the distribution of fluctuations. Recent experimental studies provide considerable support to the idea of criticality in cell differentiation and in other biological processes like the development of the fruit fly embryo. In this Review, an elementary introduction is given to the concept of criticality in cell differentiation. The correspondence between the signatures of criticality and experimental observations on blood cell differentiation in mice is further highlighted.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.07897v1', ['Cell Behavior'], []]
