[u'A dynamic stress model explains the delayed drug effect in artemisinin treatment of Plasmodium falciparum', ['Pengxing Cao', 'Nectarios Klonis', 'Sophie Zaloumis', 'Con Dogovski', 'Stanley C. Xie', 'Sompob Saralamba', 'Lisa J. White', 'Freya J. I. Fowkes', 'Leann Tilley', 'Julie A. Simpson', 'James M. McCaw'], u'2016-12-01', u"Artemisinin resistance constitutes a major threat to the continued success of control programs for malaria. With alternative antimalarial drugs not yet available, improving our understanding of how artemisinin-based drugs act and how resistance manifests is essential to enable optimisation of dosing regimens in order to prolong the lifespan of current first-line treatment options. Here, through introduction of a novel model of the dynamics of the parasites' response to drug, we explore how artemisinin-based therapies may be adjusted to maintain efficacy and how artemisinin resistance may manifest and be overcome. We introduce a dynamic mathematical model, extending on the traditional pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic framework, to capture the time-dependent development of a stress response in parasites. We fit the model to in vitro data and establish that the parasites' stress response explains the recently identified complex interplay between drug concentration, exposure time and parasite viability. Our model demonstrates that the previously reported hypersensitivity of early ring stage parasites of the 3D7 strain to dihydroartemisinin (DHA) is primarily due to the rapid development of stress, rather than any change in the maximum achievable killing rate. Of direct clinical relevance, we demonstrate that the complex temporal features of artemisinin action observed in vitro have a significant impact on predictions of in vivo parasite clearance using PK-PD models. Given the important role that such models play in the design and evaluation of clinical trials for alternative drug dosing regimens, our model contributes an enhanced predictive platform for the continued efforts to minimise the burden of malaria.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.00396v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Assessing the impacts of time to detection distribution assumptions on detection probability estimation', ['Adam Martin-Schwarze', 'Jarad Niemi', 'Philip Dixon'], u'2016-12-01', u'Abundance estimates from animal point-count surveys require accurate estimates of detection probabilities. The standard model for estimating detection from removal-sampled point-count surveys assumes that organisms at a survey site are detected at a constant rate; however, this assumption is often not justified. We consider a class of N-mixture models that allows for detection heterogeneity over time through a flexibly defined time-to-detection distribution (TTDD) and allows for fixed and random effects for both abundance and detection. Our model is thus a combination of survival time-to-event analysis with unknown-N, unknown-p abundance estimation. We specifically explore two-parameter families of TTDDs, e.g. gamma, that can additionally include a mixture component to model increased probability of detection in the initial observation period. We find that modeling a TTDD by using a two-parameter family is necessary when data have a chance of arising from a distribution of this nature. In addition, models with a mixture component can outperform non-mixture models even when the truth is non-mixture. Finally, we analyze an Overbird data set from the Chippewa National Forest using mixed effect models for both abundance and detection. We demonstrate that the effects of explanatory variables on abundance and detection are consistent across mixture TTDDs but that flexible TTDDs result in lower estimated probabilities of detection and therefore higher estimates of abundance.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.00168v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Interspecific allometric scaling of multicellular organisms as an evolutionary process of food chain creation, influenced by mechanical constraints', ['Yuri K. Shestopaloff'], u'2016-12-01', u"Metabolic rate of living organisms (energy produced per unit time) increases slower than organisms' mass. This phenomenon, when applied to different taxa, is called interspecific allometric scaling. Its causes remain unknown. Here we show that interspecific allometric scaling for multicellular organisms occurred as the result of evolution of organisms within the food chain, and certain mechanical constraints. We prove this conjecture by obtaining very close to experimental findings values of allometric exponents both for the maximal and basal metabolic rates.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.00098v1', ['Other'], []]
[u'A quantitative definition of organismality and its application to lichen', ['Eric Libby', 'Joshua Grochow', 'Simon DeDeo', 'David Wolpert'], u'2016-11-30', u'The organism is a fundamental concept in biology. However there is no universally accepted, formal, and yet broadly applicable definition of what an organism is. Here we introduce a candidate definition. We adopt the view that the "organism" is a functional concept, used by scientists to address particular questions concerning the future state of a biological system, rather than something wholly defined by that system. In this approach organisms are a coarse-graining of a fine-grained dynamical model of a biological system. Crucially, the coarse-graining of the system into organisms is chosen so that their dynamics can be used by scientists to make accurate predictions of those features of the biological system that interests them, and do so with minimal computational burden. To illustrate our framework we apply it to a dynamic model of lichen symbiosis---a system where either the lichen or its constituent fungi and algae could reasonably be considered "organisms." We find that the best choice for what organisms are in this scenario are complex mixtures of many entities that do not resemble standard notions of organisms. When we restrict our allowed coarse-grainings to more traditional types of organisms, we find that ecological conditions, such as niche competition and predation pressure, play a significant role in determining the best choice for organisms.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.00036v1', ['Other'], []]
[u'A biology journal that can teach physicists a lesson in peer review', ['Raymond E. Goldstein'], u'2016-12-01', u'This is a Commentary in $Physics~Today$ on the novel review process developed by the biology journal $eLife$, with the suggestion that it be adopted by physics journals.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.00241v1', ['Cell Behavior'], []]
