[u'Predicting the kinetics of RNA oligonucleotides using Markov state models', ['Giovanni Pinamonti', 'Jianbo Zhao', 'David E. Condon', 'Fabian Paul', 'Frank Noe', 'Douglas H. Turner', 'Giovanni Bussi'], u'2016-12-22', u'Nowadays different experimental techniques, such as single molecule or relaxation experiments, can provide dynamic properties of biomolecular systems, but the amount of detail obtainable with these methods is often limited in terms of time or spatial resolution. Here we use state-of-the-art computational techniques, namely atomistic molecular dynamics and Markov state models, to provide insight into the rapid dynamics of short RNA oligonucleotides, in order to elucidate the kinetics of stacking interactions. Analysis of multiple microsecond-long simulations indicates that the main relaxation modes of such molecules can consist of transitions between alternative folded states, rather than between random coils and native structures. After properly removing structures that are artificially stabilized by known inaccuracies of the current RNA AMBER force field, the kinetic properties predicted are consistent with the timescales of previously reported relaxation experiments.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.07470v1', ['Biomolecules'], []]
[u'RNA substructure as a random matrix ensemble', ['Sang Kwan Choi', 'Chaiho Rim', 'Hwajin Um'], u'2016-12-22', u'We obtain a closed form of generating functions of RNA substructure using hermitian matrix model with the Chebyshev polynomial of the second kind, which turns out to be the hypergeometric function. To match the experimental findings of the statistical behavior, we regard the substructure as a grand canonical ensemble and find its fugacity value. We also suggest a hierarchical picture based on the planar structure so that the non-planar structure such as pseudoknot are included.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.07468v1', ['Biomolecules', 'Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Functional Hypergraph Uncovers Novel Covariant Structures over Neurodevelopment', ['Shi Gu', 'Muzhi Yang', 'John D. Medaglia', 'Ruben C. Gur', 'Raquel E. Gur', 'Theodore D. Satterthwaite', 'Danielle S. Bassett'], u'2016-12-22', u'Brain development during adolescence is marked by substantial changes in brain structure and function, leading to a stable network topology in adulthood. However, most prior work has examined the data through the lens of brain areas connected to one another in large-scale functional networks. Here, we apply a recently-developed hypergraph approach that treats network connections (edges) rather than brain regions as the unit of interest, allowing us to describe functional network topology from a fundamentally different perspective. Capitalizing on a sample of 780 youth imaged as part of the Philadelphia Neurodevelopmental Cohort, this hypergraph representation of resting-state functional MRI data reveals three distinct classes of sub-networks (hyperedges): clusters, bridges, and stars, which represent spatially distributed, bipartite, and focal architectures, respectively. Cluster hyperedges show a strong resemblance to the functional modules of the brain including somatomotor, visual, default mode, and salience systems. In contrast, star hyperedges represent highly localized subnetworks centered on a small set of regions, and are distributed across the entire cortex. Finally, bridge hyperedges link clusters and stars in a core-periphery organization. Notably, developmental changes within hyperedges are ordered in a similar core-periphery fashion, with the greatest developmental effects occurring in networked hyperedges within the functional core. Taken together, these results emphasize that the network organization of human brain emerges across multiple scales and evolves substantially through the adolescent period.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.07772v1', ['Neurons and Cognition', 'Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Closed-loop estimation of retinal network sensitivity reveals signature of efficient coding', ['Ulisse Ferrari', 'Christophe Gardella', 'Olivier Marre', 'Thierry Mora'], u'2016-12-22', u'According to the theory of efficient coding, sensory systems are adapted to represent natural scenes with high fidelity and at minimal metabolic cost. Testing this hypothesis for sensory structures performing non-linear computations on high dimensional stimuli is still an open challenge. Here we develop a method to characterize the sensitivity of the retinal network to perturbations of a stimulus. Using closed-loop experiments, we explore selectively the space of possible perturbations around a given stimulus. We then show that the response of the retinal population to these small perturbations can be described by a local linear model. Using this model, we computed the sensitivity of the neural response to arbitrary temporal perturbations of the stimulus, and found a peak in the sensitivity as a function of the frequency of the perturbations. Based on a minimal theory of sensory processing, we argue that this peak is set to maximize information transmission. Our approach is relevant to testing the efficient coding hypothesis locally in any context where no reliable encoding model is known.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.07712v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'A simple unified view of branching process statistics: random walks in balanced logarithmic potentials', ['Serena di Santo', 'Pablo Villegas', 'Rafaella Burioni', 'Miguel A. Munoz'], u'2016-12-21', u'We revisit the problem of deriving the mean-field values of avalanche critical exponents in systems with absorbing states. These are well-known to coincide with those of an un-biased branching process. Here, we show that for at least 4 different universality classes (directed percolation, dynamical percolation, the voter model or compact directed percolation class, and the Manna class of stochastic sandpiles) this common result can be obtained by mapping the corresponding Langevin equations describing each of these classes into a random walker confined close to the origin by a logarithmic potential. Many of the results derived here appear in the literature as independently derived for individual universality classes or for the branching process. However, the emergence of non-universal continuously-varying exponent values --which, as shown here, stems fro the presence of small external driving, that might induce avalanche merging-- has not been noticed (or emphasized) in the past. We believe that a simple an unified perspective as the one presented here can (i) help to clarify the overall picture, (ii) underline the super-universality of the behavior as well as the dependence on external driving, and (iii) help avoiding the common existing confusion between un-biased branching processes (equivalent to a random walker in a logarithmic potential) and standard (un-confined) random walkers.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.07183v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Cost-efficient vaccination protocols for network epidemiology', ['Petter Holme', 'Nelly Litvak'], u'2016-12-22', u"We investigate methods to vaccinate contact networks -- i.e. removing nodes to hinder disease spreading. Any real implementation of such protocols would come with costs related both to the vaccination itself, and gathering of information about the network. Disregarding this, we argue, would lead to erroneous evaluation of vaccination protocols. We use the susceptible-infected-recovered model -- the generic model for diseases making patients immune upon recovery -- as our disease-spreading scenario, and analyze outbreaks on both empirical and model networks to find the most cost-efficient vaccination protocols. For different relative costs, different protocols dominate. For high vaccination costs and low costs of gathering information, the so-called acquaintance vaccination is the most cost efficient. For other parameter values, protocols designed for query-efficient identification of the network's largest degrees are most efficient.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.07425v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Filament turnover is essential for continuous long range contractile flow in a model actomyosin cortex', ['William M. McFadden', 'Patrick M. McCall', 'Edwin M. Munro'], u'2016-12-22', u'In this paper, we develop and analyze a minimal model for a 2D network of cross-linked actin filaments and myosin motors, representing the cortical cytoskeleton of eukaryotic cells. We implement coarse-grained representations of force production by myosin motors and stress dissipation through an effective cross-link friction and filament turnover. We use this model to characterize how the sustained production of active stress, and the steady dissipation of elastic stress, depend individually on motor activity, effective cross-link friction and filament turnover. Then we combine these results to gain insights into how microscopic network parameters control steady state flow produced by asymmetric distributions of motor activity. Our results provide a framework for understanding how local modulation of microscopic interactions within contractile networks control macroscopic quantities like active stress and effective viscosity to control cortical deformation and flow at cellular scales.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.07430v1', ['Subcellular Processes'], []]
