[u'Corrections for multiple comparisons in voxel-based lesion-symptom mapping', ['Daniel Mirman', 'Jon-Frederick Landrigan', 'Spiro Kokolis', 'Sean Verillo', 'Casey Ferrara', 'Dorian Pustina'], u'2016-12-13', u'Voxel-based lesion-symptom mapping (VLSM) is an important method for basic and translational human neuroscience research. VLSM leverages modern neuroimaging analysis techniques to build on the classic approach of examining the relationship between location of brain damage and cognitive deficits. Testing an association between deficit severity and lesion status in each voxel involves very many individual tests and requires statistical correction for multiple comparisons. Several strategies have been adapted from analysis of functional neuroimaging data, though VLSM faces a more difficult trade-off between avoiding false positives and statistical power (missing true effects). Non-parametric, permutation-based methods are generally preferable because they do not make assumptions that are likely to be violated by skewed distributions of behavioral deficit (symptom) scores and by the necessary spatial contiguity of stroke lesions. We used simulated and real deficit scores from a sample of approximately 100 individuals with left hemisphere stroke to evaluate two such permutation-based approaches. Using permutation to set a minimum cluster size identified a region that systematically extended well beyond the true region, even under the most conservative settings tested here, making it ill-suited to identifying brain-behavior relationships. In contrast, generalizing the standard permutation-based family-wise error correction approach provided a principled way to balance false positives and false negatives. An implementation of this continuous permutation-based FWER correction method is available at https://gist.github.com/dmirman/05a92e0e9e0027f6fe6e528c648143d7.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.04345v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u"Response to Comment on 'Perceptual Learning Incepted by Decoded fMRI Neurofeedback Without Stimulus Presentation'; How can a decoded neurofeedback method (DecNef) lead to successful reinforcement and visual perceptual learning?", ['Kazuhisa Shibata', 'Yuka Sasaki', 'Takeo Watanabe', 'Mitsuo Kawato'], u'2016-12-13', u"Huang (arXiv:1612.03270) argues that the perceptual learning induced by our decoded neurofeedback method (DecNef) can be explained by Hebbian synaptic plasticity of connections between V1/V2 and V3/V4 rather than that within V1/V2, and that reinforcement learning at a cellular level should not be possible, and thus challenges our conclusions. In this reply, first, we show that Huang's model is not compatible with our data which strongly suggest plasticity within V1/V2. Second, the results of our new analysis show that spontaneous activity is not random but largely accounted for by low-dimensional components. These and other results indicate that learning to induce a stimulus-associated template voxel pattern in V1/V2 within as few as 100 trials is likely to be accomplished by hyper-resolution and sub-voxel level control by DecNef.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.04234v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u"Cerebral Synchrony Assessment: A General Review on Cerebral Signals' Synchronization Estimation Concepts and Methods", ['Esmaeil Seraj'], u'2016-12-12', u'The human brain is ultimately responsible for all thoughts and movements that the body produces. This allows humans to successfully interact with their environment. If the brain is not functioning properly many abilities of human can be damaged. The goal of cerebral signal analysis is to learn about brain function. The idea that distinct areas of the brain are responsible for specific tasks, the functional segregation, is a key aspect of brain function. Functional integration is an important feature of brain function, it is the concordance of multiple segregated brain areas to produce a unified response. There is an amplified feedback mechanism in the brain called reentry which requires specific timing relations. This specific timing requires neurons within an assembly to synchronize their firing rates. This has led to increased interest and use of phase variables, particularly their synchronization, to measure connectivity in cerebral signals. Herein, we propose a comprehensive review on concepts and methods previously presented for assessing cerebral synchrony, with focus on phase synchronization, as a tool for brain connectivity evaluation.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.04295v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Spatio-temporal data mining in ecological and veterinary epidemiology', ['Aristides Moustakas'], u'2016-12-13', u'Understanding the spread of any disease is a highly complex and interdisciplinary exercise as biological, social, geographic, economic, and medical factors may shape the way a disease moves through a population and options for its eventual control or eradication. Disease spread poses a serious threat in animal and plant health and has implications for ecosystem functioning and species extinctions as well as implications in society through food security and potential disease spread in humans. Space-time epidemiology is based on the concept that various characteristics of the pathogenic agents and the environment interact in order to alter the probability of disease occurrence and form temporal or spatial patterns. Epidemiology aims to identify these patterns and factors, to assess the relevant uncertainty sources, and to describe disease in the population. Thus disease spread at the population level differs from the approach traditionally taken by veterinary practitioners that are principally concerned with the health status of the individual. Patterns of disease occurrence provide insights into which factors may be affecting the health of the population, through investigating which individuals are affected, where are these individuals located and when did they become infected. With the rapid development of smart sensors, social networks, as well as digital maps and remotely-sensed imagery spatio-temporal data are more ubiquitous and richer than ever before. The availability of such large datasets (Big data) poses great challenges in data analysis. In addition, increased availability of computing power facilitates the use of computationally-intensive methods for the analysis of such data. Thus new methods as well as case studies are needed to understand veterinary and ecological epidemiology. A special issue aimed to address this topic.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.04074v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'A numerical approach to determine mutant invasion fitness and evolutionary singular strategies', ['Coralie Fritsch', 'Fabien Campillo', 'Otso Ovaskainen'], u'2016-12-13', u'We propose a general numerical approach that can be used to study the invasion fitness of a mutant in evolutionary models and to determine evolutionary singular strategies when the competitive exclusion principle holds. We illustrate this method with a mass-structured individual-based chemostat model. We assume that the mutations are rare and that the resident population is large, in which case the mutant population can be viewed, on a short time scale, as evolving in a constant environment. Both deterministic and stochastic models can be proposed to describe such a problem. We exploit a previously derived mathematical relationship between these models to derive a general method for analyzing the invasion fitness of stochastic models. Our method is based on a deterministic reduced model for which it is straightforward to determine the feasibility of invasion and the convergence-stable evolutionary singular strategy.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.04049v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], [u'CMAP, IECL, TOSCA', u'LEMON']]
[u'Simulations of populations of Sapajus robustus in a fragmented landscape', ['F. Keesen', 'A. Castro e Silva', 'E. Arashiro', 'C. F. S. Pinheiro'], u'2016-12-13', u'The study of populations subject to the phenomenon of loss and fragmentation of habitat, transforming continuous areas into small ones, usually surrounded by anthropogenic matrices, has been the focus of many researches within the scope of conservation. The objective of this study was to develop a computer model by introducing modifications to the renowned Penna Model for biological aging, in order to evaluate the behavior of populations subjected to the effects of fragmented environments. As an object of study, it was used biological data of the robust tufted capuchin (Sapajus robustus), an endangered primate species whose geographical distribution within the Atlantic Rain Forest is part of the backdrop of intense habitat fragmentation. The simulations showed the expected behavior based on the three main aspects that affects populations under intense habitat fragmentation: the population density, area and conformation of the fragments and deleterious effects due the low genetic variability in small and isolated populations. The model showed itself suitable to describe changes in viability and population dynamics of the species crested capuchin considering critical levels of survival in a fragmented environment and also, actions in order to preserve the species should be focused not only on increasing available area but also in dispersion dynamics.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.03976v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Neuro-symbolic representation learning on biological knowledge graphs', ['Mona Alshahrani', 'Mohammed Asif Khan', 'Omar Maddouri', 'Akira R Kinjo', 'Nuria Queralt-Rosinach', 'Robert Hoehndorf'], u'2016-12-13', u'Motivation: Biological data and knowledge bases increasingly rely on Semantic Web technologies and the use of knowledge graphs for data integration, retrieval and federated queries. In the past years, feature learning methods that are applicable to graph-structured data are becoming available, but have not yet widely been applied and evaluated on structured biological knowledge. Results: We develop a novel method for feature learning on biological knowledge graphs. Our method combines symbolic methods, in particular knowledge representation using symbolic logic and automated reasoning, with neural networks to generate embeddings of nodes that encode for related information within knowledge graphs. Through the use of symbolic logic, these embeddings contain both explicit and implicit information. We apply these embeddings to the prediction of edges in the knowledge graph representing problems of function prediction, finding candidate genes of diseases, protein-protein interactions, or drug target relations, and demonstrate performance that matches and sometimes outperforms traditional approaches based on manually crafted features. Our method can be applied to any biological knowledge graph, and will thereby open up the increasing amount of Semantic Web based knowledge bases in biology to use in machine learning and data analytics. Availability and Implementation: https://github.com/bio-ontology-research-group/walking-rdf-and-owl Contact: robert.hoehndorf@kaust.edu.sa', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.04256v1', ['Quantitative Methods', 'Molecular Networks'], []]
[u"Observation of dynamics inside an unlabeled live cell using bright-field photon microscopy: Evaluation of organelles' trajectories", ['Renata Rychtarikova', 'Dalibor Stys'], u'2016-12-13', u"This article presents an algorithm for the evaluation of organelles' movements inside of an unmodified live cell. We used a time-lapse image series obtained using wide-field bright-field photon transmission microscopy as an algorithm input. The benefit of the algorithm is the application of the R\\'enyi information entropy, namely a variable called a point information gain, which enables to highlight the borders of the intracellular organelles and to localize the organelles' centers of mass with the precision of one pixel.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.04110v1', ['Quantitative Methods', 'Subcellular Processes', 'Cell Behavior'], []]
[u'Growth and instability of a phospholipid vesicle in a bath of fatty acids', ['Julien Dervaux', 'Vincent Noireaux', 'Albert Libchaber'], u'2016-12-13', u'Using a microfluidic trap, we study the behavior of individual phospholipid vesicles in contact with fatty acids. We show that spontaneous fatty acids insertion inside the bilayer is controlled by the vesicle size, osmotic pressure difference across the membrane and fatty acids concentration in the external bath. Depending on these parameters, vesicles can grow spherically or become unstable and fragment into several daughter vesicles. We establish the phase diagram for vesicle growth and we derive a simple thermodynamic model that reproduces the time evolution of the vesicle volume. Finally, we show that stable growth can be achieved on an artificial cell expressing a simple set of bacterial cytoskeletal proteins, paving the way toward artificial cell reproduction.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.04136v1', ['Subcellular Processes'], [u'MSC']]
