[u'Solution X-ray scattering (S/WAXS) and structure formation in protein dynamics', ['Alexandr Nasedkin', 'Jan Davidsson', 'Antti J. Niemi', 'Xubiao Peng'], u'2016-11-24', u'We propose to develop mean field theory in combination with Glauber algorithm, to model and interpret protein dynamics and structure formation in small to wide angle x-ray scattering (S/WAXS) experiments. We develop the methodology by analysing the Engrailed homeodomain protein as an example. We demonstrate how to interpret S/WAXS data with a good precision and over an extended temperature range. We explain experimentally observed phenomena in terms of protein phase structure, and we make predictions for future experiments how the scattering data behaves at different ambient temperature values. We conclude that a combination of mean field theory with Glauber algorithm has the potential to develop into a highly accurate, computationally effective and predictive tool for analysing S/WAXS data. Finally, we compare our results with those obtained previously in an all-atom molecular dynamics simulation.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1611.08259v1', ['Biomolecules'], []]
[u'White matter deficits underlie the loss of consciousness level and predict recovery outcome in disorders of consciousness', ['Xuehai Wu', 'Jiaying Zhang', 'Zaixu Cui', 'Weijun Tang', 'Chunhong Shao', 'Jin Hu', 'Jianhong Zhu', 'Liangfu Zhou', 'Yao Zhao', 'Lu Lu', 'Gang Chen', 'Georg Northoff', 'Gaolang Gong', 'Ying Mao', 'Yong He'], u'2016-11-24', u'This study aimed to identify white matter (WM) deficits underlying the loss of consciousness in disorder of consciousness (DOC) patients using Diffusion Tensor Imaging (DTI) and to demonstrate the potential value of DTI parameters in predicting recovery outcomes of DOC patients. With 30 DOC patients (8 comatose, 8 unresponsive wakefulness syndrome/vegetative state, and 14 minimal conscious state) and 25 patient controls, we performed group comparison of DTI parameters across 48 core WM regions of interest (ROIs) using Analysis of Covariance. Compared with controls, DOC patients had decreased Fractional anisotropy (FA) and increased diffusivities in widespread WM area.The corresponding DTI parameters of those WM deficits in DOC patients significantly correlated with the consciousness level evaluated by Coma Recovery Scale Revised (CRS-R) and Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS). As for predicting the recovery outcomes (i.e., regaining consciousness or not, grouped by their Glasgow Outcome Scale more than 2 or not) at 3 months post scan, radial diffusivity of left superior cerebellar peduncle and FA of right sagittal stratum reached an accuracy of 87.5% and 75% respectively. Our findings showed multiple WM deficits underlying the loss of consciousness level, and demonstrated the potential value of these WM areas in predicting the recovery outcomes of DOC patients who have lost awareness of the environment and themselves.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1611.08310v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'EEGNet: A Compact Convolutional Network for EEG-based Brain-Computer Interfaces', ['Vernon J. Lawhern', 'Amelia J. Solon', 'Nicholas R. Waytowich', 'Stephen M. Gordon', 'Chou P. Hung', 'Brent J. Lance'], u'2016-11-23', u'Objective: Brain-Computer Interface technologies (BCI) enable the direct communication between humans and computers by analyzing brain measurements, such as electroencephalography (EEG). These technologies have been applied to a variety of domains, including neuroprosthetic control and the monitoring of epileptic seizures. Existing BCI systems primarily use a priori knowledge of EEG features of interest to build machine learning models. Recently, convolutional networks have been used for automatic feature extraction of large image databases, where they have obtained state-of-the-art results. In this work we introduce EEGNet, a compact fully convolutional network for EEG-based BCIs developed using Deep Learning approaches. Methods: EEGNet is a 4-layer convolutional network that uses filter factorization for learning a compact representation of EEG time series. EEGNet is one of the smallest convolutional networks to date, having less than 2200 parameters for a binary classification. Results: We show state-of-the-art classification performance across four different BCI paradigms: P300 event-related potential, error-related negativity, movement-related cortical potential, and sensory motor rhythm, with as few as 500 EEG trials. We also show that adding more trials reduces the error variance of prediction rather than improving classification performance. Conclusion: We provide preliminary evidence suggesting that our model can be used with small EEG databases while improving upon the state-of-the-art performance across several tasks and across subjects. Significance: The EEGNet neural network architecture provides state-of-the-art performance across several tasks and across subjects, challenging the notion that large datasets are required to obtain optimal performance.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1611.08024v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Low-dimensional spike rate models derived from networks of adaptive integrate-and-fire neurons: comparison and implementation', ['Moritz Augustin', 'Josef Ladenbauer', 'Fabian Baumann', 'Klaus Obermayer'], u'2016-11-23', u'The spiking activity of single neurons can be well described by a nonlinear integrate-and-fire model that includes somatic adaptation. When exposed to fluctuating inputs sparsely coupled populations of these model neurons exhibit stochastic collective dynamics that can be effectively characterized using the Fokker-Planck equation. [...] Here we derive from that description four simple models for the spike rate dynamics in terms of low-dimensional ordinary differential equations using two different reduction techniques: one uses the spectral decomposition of the Fokker-Planck operator, the other is based on a cascade of two linear filters and a nonlinearity, which are determined from the Fokker-Planck equation and semi-analytically approximated. We evaluate the reduced models for a wide range of biologically plausible input statistics and find that both approximation approaches lead to spike rate models that accurately reproduce the spiking behavior of the underlying adaptive integrate-and-fire population. [...] The low-dimensional models also well reproduce stable oscillatory spike rate dynamics that is generated by recurrent synaptic excitation and neuronal adaptation. [...] Therefore we have made available implementations that allow to numerically integrate the low-dimensional spike rate models as well as the Fokker-Planck partial differential equation in efficient ways for arbitrary model parametrizations as open source software. The derived spike rate descriptions retain a direct link to the properties of single neurons, allow for convenient mathematical analyses of network states, and are well suited for application in neural mass/mean-field based brain network models.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1611.07999v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'How does cell size regulation affect population growth?', ['Jie Lin', 'Ariel Amir'], u'2016-11-23', u'The proliferation of a growing microbial colony is well characterized by the population growth rate. However, at the single-cell level, isogenic cells often exhibit different cell-cycle durations. For evolutionary dynamics, it is thus important to establish the connection between the population growth rate and the heterogeneous single-cell generation time. Existing theories often make the assumption that the generation times of mother and daughter cells are independent. However, it has been shown that to maintain a bounded cell size distribution, cells that grow exponentially at the single-cell level need to adopt cell size regulation, leading to a negative correlation of mother-daughter generation time. In this work, we construct a general framework to describe the population growth in the presence of size regulation. We derive a formula for the population growth rate, which only depends on the variability of single-cell growth rate, independent of other sources of noises. Our work shows that a population can enhance the population growth by reducing the growth rate variability, which may be the reason for the mild growth rate variability observed in many microorganisms.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1611.07989v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Pruning to Increase Taylor Dispersion in Physarum polycephalum Networks', ['Sophie Marbach', 'Karen Alim', 'Natalie Andrew', 'Anne Pringle', 'Michael P. Brenner'], u'2016-11-24', u'How do the topology and geometry of a tubular network affect the spread of particles within fluid flows? We investigate patterns of effective dispersion in the hierarchical, biological transport network formed by Physarum polycephalum. We demonstrate that a change in topology - pruning in the foraging state - causes a large increase in effective dispersion throughout the network. By comparison, changes in the hierarchy of tube radii result in smaller and more localized differences. Pruned networks capitalize on Taylor dispersion to increase the dispersion capability.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1611.08306v1', ['Tissues and Organs'], []]
[u'A Mathematical Model of Mechanotransduction', ['Bradley J. Roth'], u'2016-11-24', u'This article reviews the mechanical bidomain model, a mathematical description how the extracellular matrix and intracellular cytoskeleton are coupled by integrin proteins. The fundamental hypothesis is that differences between intracellular and extracellular displacements drive mechanotransduction. A one-dimensional example illustrates the model, which is then extended to two dimensions. In several cases the equations are solved analytically, illustrating how displacements divide into two parts: monodomain displacements are identical in both spaces and therefore do not contribute to mechanotransduction, whereas bidomain displacements cause mechanotransduction. A new length constant depends on the intracellular and extracellular shear moduli and the integrin spring constant, and bidomain effects often occur within a few length constants of the tissue edge. Numerical methods for solving the model equations are being developed. Precursors to the model and potential applications are discussed. The bidomain model may be applicable to cardiac remodeling, blood vessel regulation, tissue engineering, stem cell differentiation, cancer biology, and development.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1611.08287v1', ['Tissues and Organs'], []]
[u'Stochastic study of information transmission and population stability in a generic bacterial two-component system', ['Tarunendu Mapder', 'Sudip Chattopadhyay', 'Suman K Banik'], u'2016-11-24', u'Studies on the role of fluctuations in signal propagation and on gene regulation in monoclonal bacterial population have been extensively pursued based on the machinery of two-component system. The bacterial two-component system shows noise utilisation through its inherent plasticity. The fluctuations propagation takes place using the phosphotransfer module and the feedback mechanism during gene regulation. To delicately observe the noisy kinetics the generic cascade needs stochastic investigation at the mRNA and protein levels. To this end, we propose a theoretical framework to investigate the noisy signal transduction in a generic two-component system. The model shows reliability in information transmission through quantification of several statistical measures. We further extend our analysis to observe the protein distribution in a population of cells. Through numerical simulation, we identify the regime of the kinetic parameter set that generates a stability switch in the steady state distribution of proteins. The results of our theoretical analysis show key features of the network. The noise permeation and information propagation in the autoregulation module is feeble. However, the phosphotransfer module compensates such weakness and plays a significant role in information transmission. The bimodality due to fluctuations pampers the emergence of persistence in an isogenic bacterial pool.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1611.08085v1', ['Molecular Networks', 'Subcellular Processes'], []]
[u'Phototaxis beyond turning: persistent accumulation and response acclimation of the microalga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii', ['Jorge Arrieta', 'Ana Barreira', 'Maurizio Chioccioli', 'Marco Polin', 'Idan Tuval'], u'2016-11-24', u'Phototaxis is an important reaction to light displayed by a wide range of motile microorganisms. Flagellated eukaryotic microalgae in particular, like the model organism Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, steer either towards or away from light by a rapid and precisely timed modulation of their flagellar activity. Cell steering, however, is only the beginning of a much longer process which ultimately allows cells to determine their light exposure history. This process is not well understood. Here we present a first quantitative study of the long timescale phototactic motility of Chlamydomonas at both single cell and population levels. Our results reveal that the phototactic strategy adopted by these microorganisms leads to an efficient exposure to light, and that the phototactic response is modulated over typical timescales of tens of seconds. The adaptation dynamics for phototaxis and chlorophyll fluorescence show a striking quantitative agreement, suggesting that photosynthesis controls quantitatively how cells navigate a light field.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1611.08224v1', ['Cell Behavior'], []]
