[u'Modeling cognitive deficits following neurodegenerative diseases and traumatic brain injuries with deep convolutional neural networks', ['Bethany Lusch', 'Jake Weholt', 'Pedro D. Maia', 'J. Nathan Kutz'], u'2016-12-13', u'The accurate diagnosis and assessment of neurodegenerative disease and traumatic brain injuries (TBI) remain open challenges. Both cause cognitive and functional deficits due to focal axonal swellings (FAS), but it is difficult to deliver a prognosis due to our limited ability to assess damaged neurons at a cellular level in vivo. We simulate the effects of neurodegenerative disease and TBI using convolutional neural networks (CNNs) as our model of cognition. We utilize biophysically relevant statistical data on FAS to damage the connections in CNNs in a functionally relevant way. We incorporate energy constraints on the brain by pruning the CNNs to be less over-engineered. Qualitatively, we demonstrate that damage leads to human-like mistakes. Our experiments also provide quantitative assessments of how accuracy is affected by various types and levels of damage. The deficit resulting from a fixed amount of damage greatly depends on which connections are randomly injured, providing intuition for why it is difficult to predict impairments. There is a large degree of subjectivity when it comes to interpreting cognitive deficits from complex systems such as the human brain. However, we provide important insight and a quantitative framework for disorders in which FAS are implicated.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.04423v1', ['Neurons and Cognition', 'Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'A note on the population growth rate in a tumor', ['Yong Chen'], u'2016-12-14', u'The understanding of the macroscopic phenomenological models of the population growth at a microscopic level is important to predict the population behaviors emerged from the interactions between the individuals. In this work we consider the influence of the cell-cell interaction on the population growth rate $R$ in a tumor system, and show that, in most cases especially small proliferative probabilities, the regulative role of the interaction will be strengthened with the decline of the intrinsic proliferative probabilities. For the high replication rates of an individual and the cooperative interactions, the proliferative probability almost has no effect. We compute the dependences of $R$ on the interactions between the cells under the approximation of the nearest neighbor in the rim of an avascular tumor. Our results are helpful to qualitatively understand the influence of the interactions between the individuals on the growth rate in population systems.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.04532v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'The role of food chain balance and common nutritional environment in interspecific allometric scaling of unicellular organisms', ['Yuri K. Shestopaloff'], u'2016-12-14', u"One of the major characteristics of living organisms is metabolic rate - the amount of energy produced per unit time. When the size of organisms increases, the metabolic rate increases slower than organisms' mass, which has important implications for the evolutionary and ontogenetic development. Here, we study the fundamental causes of this phenomenon on the basis of metabolic properties of unicellular organisms (Amoeba Proteus, fission yeast S. pombe, E. coli, B. subtilis, Staphylococcus). We use a new approach for finding metabolic characteristics of unicellular organisms. The study discovered that the metabolic properties and allometric scaling of unicellular organisms are defined by at least two primary factors. One is the acquisition of nutrients through the surface in a common nutritional environment, which forms the base part of 2/3 of an allometric exponent. The other factor is a regular increase of nutrient influx per unit surface when one ascends the food chain and organisms' mass increases. Accounting for the increase of nutrient influx and its variations, we obtained allometric exponents close to values obtained in experiments. We conjecture that the metabolic properties of living organisms are much influenced by the requirement of a balanced state of an entire food chain.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.04695v1', ['Other'], []]
[u'The design of a proto-animal brain based upon spike timing', ['Robert Alan Brown'], u'2016-12-12', u'A basal animal model is described as an organism similar to a Limpet that is attached to the sea floor living in a reproductive community. Its brain model uses logic cells (gates) to create a high frequency spike generator. Addition logic cells create a timing framework based upon Pulse Width Modulation (PWM), and create multi-cell, spike driven muscle actuators and bi-directional shift registers that serve as memories. Together, these logic cells generate a pulse train that forms a recurrent fractal in the form of coherent square waves that consist of an equal number of set pulses and reset pulses. These pulses drive the actuators that pump water and food through its shell. Some of these individuals lose their permanent attachment to the sea floor, and evolve the ability to move around using the feeding motions. This creates the hazard of getting stuck against an object or moving away from its breeding community. They evolve a sensor system and logic cells that produce a restoring motion for each avoidance motion. This keeps the animal in the specific region of an object that it encounters (hefting), and maintains the zero sum (coherence) of the fractal, and connects the organism cyberneticly to objects that are sensed in its environment. The logic units evolve to store permanent memories, and add plus and minus pulse trains together into a single pulse train that allow the animal to follow a moving object (imprinting). Additional logic units evolve that allow the animal to heft using contacts with multiple objects that allow the animal to return to its point of origin (reproductive migration) using permanent memories that are created when a pulse is not reset to zero.So, information is stored in multiple logic cells instead of a connection to one logic cell, and is based upon spike timing rather than static (synaptic) connections between cells.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.04682v1', ['Other'], []]
[u'A simple noise reduction method based on nonlinear forecasting', ['James PL Tan'], u'2016-12-14', u"Non-parametric detrending or noise reduction methods are often employed to separate trends from noisy time series when no satisfactory models exist to fit the data. However, conventional detrending methods depend on subjective choices of detrending parameters. Here, we present a simple multivariate detrending method based on available nonlinear forecasting techniques. These are in turn based on state space reconstruction for which a strong theoretical justification exists for their use in non-parametric forecasting. The detrending method presented here is conceptually similar to Schreiber's noise reduction method using state space reconstruction. However, we show that Schreiber's method contains a minor flaw that can be overcome with forecasting. Furthermore, our detrending method contains a simple but nontrivial extension to multivariate time series. We apply the detrending method to multivariate time series generated from the Van der Pol oscillator, the Lorenz equations, the Hindmarsh-Rose model of neuronal spiking activity, and a univariate real-life measles data set. It is demonstrated that detrending heuristics can be objectively optimized with in-sample forecasting errors that correlate well with actual detrending errors.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.04601v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Decoding Single Molecule Time Traces with Dynamic Disorder', ['Wonseok Hwang', 'Il-Buem Lee', 'Seok-Cheol Hong', 'Changbong Hyeon'], u'2016-12-14', u'Single molecule time trajectories of biomolecules provide glimpses into complex folding landscapes that are difficult to visualize using conventional ensemble measurements. Recent experiments and theoretical analyses have highlighted dynamic disorder in certain classes of biomolecules, whose dynamic pattern of conformational transitions is affected by slower transition dynamics of internal state hidden in a low dimensional projection. A systematic means to analyze such data is, however, currently not well developed. Here we report a new algorithm - Variational Bayes-double chain Markov model (VB-DCMM) - to analyze single molecule time trajectories that display dynamic disorder. The proposed analysis employing VB-DCMM allows us to detect the presence of dynamic disorder, if any, in each trajectory, identify the number of internal states, and estimate transition rates between the internal states as well as the rates of conformational transition within each internal state. Applying VB-DCMM algorithm to single molecule FRET data of H-DNA in 100 mM-Na$^+$ solution, followed by data clustering, we show that at least 6 kinetic paths linking 4 distinct internal states are required to correctly interpret the duplex-triplex transitions of H-DNA.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.04514v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Quantification of free-living activity patterns using accelerometry in adults with mental illness', ['Justin J. Chapman', 'James A. Roberts', 'Vinh T. Nguyen', 'Michael Breakspear'], u'2016-12-14', u'Physical activity is disrupted in many psychiatric disorders. Advances in everyday technologies (e.g. accelerometers in smart phones) opens exciting possibilities for non-intrusive acquisition of activity data. Successful exploitation of this opportunity requires the validation of analytical methods that can capture the full movement spectrum. The study aim was to demonstrate an analytical approach to characterise accelerometer-derived activity patterns. Here, we use statistical methods to characterise accelerometer-derived activity patterns from a heterogeneous sample of 99 community-based adults with mental illnesses. Diagnoses were screened using the Mini international Neuropsychiatric Interview, and participants wore accelerometers for one week. We studies the relative ability of simple (exponential), complex (heavy-tailed), and composite models to explain patterns of activity and inactivity. Activity during wakefulness was a composite of brief random (exponential) movements and complex (heavy-tailed) processes, whereas movement during sleep lacked the heavy-tailed component. In contrast, inactivity followed a heavy-tailed process, lacking the random component. Activity patterns differed in nature between those with a diagnosis of bipolar disorder and a primary psychotic disorder. These results show the potential of complex models to quntify the rich nature of human movement captured by accelerometry during wake and sleep, and the interaction with diagnosis and health.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.04471v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
