[u'Computationally Discovered Potentiating Role of Glycans on NMDA Receptors', ['Anton V. Sinitskiy', 'Nathaniel H. Stanley', 'David H. Hackos', 'Jesse E. Hanson', 'Benjamin D. Sellers', 'Vijay S. Pande'], u'2016-12-19', u'N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) are glycoproteins in the brain central to learning and memory. The effects of glycosylation on the structure and dynamics of NMDARs are largely unknown. In this work, we use extensive molecular dynamics simulations of GluN1 and GluN2B ligand binding domains (LBDs) of NMDARs to investigate these effects. Our simulations predict that intra-domain interactions involving the glycan attached to residue GluN1-N440 stabilize closed-clamshell conformations of the GluN1 LBD. The glycan on GluN2B-N688 shows a similar, though weaker, effect. Based on these results, and assuming the transferability of the results of LBD simulations to the full receptor, we predict that glycans at GluN1-N440 might play a potentiator role in NMDARs. To validate this prediction, we perform electrophysiological analysis of full-length NMDARs with a glycosylation-preventing GluN1-N440Q mutation, and demonstrate an increase in the glycine EC50 value. Overall, our results suggest an intramolecular potentiating role of glycans on NMDA receptors.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.06319v1', ['Biomolecules'], []]
[u'Folding of guanine quadruplex molecules -- funnel-like mechanism or kinetic partitioning? An overview from MD simulation studies', ['Jiri Sponer', 'Giovanni Bussi', 'Petr Stadlbauer', 'Petra Kuhrova', 'Pavel Banas', 'Barira Islam', 'Shozeb Haider', 'Stephen Neidle', 'Michal Otyepka'], u'2016-12-18', u'Background: Guanine quadruplexes (GQs) play vital roles in many cellular processes and are of much interest as drug targets. In contrast to the availability of many structural studies, there is still limited knowledge on GQ folding. Scope of review: We review recent molecular dynamics (MD) simulation studies of the folding of GQs, with an emphasis paid to the human telomeric DNA GQ. We explain the basic principles and limitations of all types of MD methods used to study unfolding and folding in a way accessible to non-specialists. We discuss the potential role of G-hairpin, G-triplex and alternative GQ intermediates in the folding process. We argue that, in general, folding of GQs is fundamentally different from funneled folding of small fast-folding proteins, and can be best described by a kinetic partitioning (KP) mechanism. KP is a competition between at least two (but often many) well-separated and structurally different conformational ensembles. Major conclusions: The KP mechanism is the only plausible way to explain experiments reporting long time-scales of GQ folding and the existence of long-lived sub-states. A significant part of the natural partitioning of the free energy landscape of GQs comes from the ability of the GQ-forming sequences to populate a large number of syn-anti patterns in their G-tracts. The extreme complexity of the KP of GQs typically prevents an appropriate description of the folding landscape using just a few order parameters or collective variables. General significance: We reconcile available computational and experimental studies of GQ folding and formulate basic principles characterizing GQ folding landscapes', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.05882v1', ['Biomolecules'], []]
[u"Quantifying the Heat Dissipation from Molecular Motor's Transport Properties in Nonequilibrium Steady States", ['Wonseok Hwang', 'Changbong Hyeon'], u'2016-12-17', u'Theoretical analysis, which maps single molecule time trajectories of a molecular motor onto unicyclic Markov processes, allows us to evaluate the heat dissipated from the motor and to elucidate its dependence on the mean velocity and diffusivity. Unlike passive Brownian particles in equilibrium, the velocity and diffusion constant of molecular motors are closely inter-related to each other. In particular, our study makes it clear that the increase of diffusivity with the heat production is a natural outcome of active particles, which is reminiscent of the recent experimental premise that the diffusion of an exothermic enzyme is enhanced by the heat released from its own catalytic turnover. Compared with freely diffusing exothermic enzymes, kinesin-1 whose dynamics is confined on one-dimensional tracks is highly efficient in transforming conformational fluctuations into a locally directed motion, thus displaying a significantly higher enhancement in diffusivity with its turnover rate. Putting molecular motors and freely diffusing enzymes on an equal footing, our study offers thermodynamic basis to understand the heat enhanced self-diffusion of exothermic enzymes.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.05747v1', ['Biomolecules'], []]
[u'Gr\xf6bner Bases of Neural Ideals', ['Rebecca Garcia', 'Luis David Garcia Puente', 'Ryan Kruse', 'Jessica Liu', 'Dane Miyata', 'Ethan Petersen', 'Kaitlyn Phillipson', 'Anne Shiu'], u'2016-12-16', u'A major area in neuroscience is the study of how the brain processes spatial information. Neurons in the brain represent external stimuli via neural codes. These codes often arise from regions of space called receptive fields: each neuron fires at a high rate precisely when the animal is in the corresponding receptive field. Much research in this area has focused on understanding what features of receptive fields can be extracted directly from a neural code. In particular, Curto, Itskov, Veliz-Cuba, and Youngs recently introduced the concept of neural ideal, which is an algebraic object that encodes the full combinatorial data of a neural code. Every neural ideal has a particular generating set, called the canonical form, that directly encodes a minimal description of the receptive field structure intrinsic to the neural code. On the other hand, for a given monomial order, any polynomial ideal is also generated by its unique (reduced) Gr\\"obner basis. How are these two types of generating sets -- canonical forms and Gr\\"obner bases -- related? Our main result states that if the canonical form of a neural ideal is a Gr\\"obner basis, then it is the universal Gr\\"obner basis (that is, the union of all reduced Gr\\"obner bases). Furthermore, we prove that this situation -- when the canonical form is a Gr\\"obner basis -- occurs precisely when the universal Gr\\"obner basis contains only pseudo-monomials (certain generalizations of monomials). Our results motivate two questions: (1)~When is the canonical form a Gr\\"obner basis? (2)~When the universal Gr\\"obner basis of a neural ideal is {\\em not} a canonical form, what can the non-pseudo-monomial elements in the basis tell us about the receptive fields of the code? We give partial answers to both questions. Along the way, we develop a representation of pseudo-monomials as hypercubes in a Boolean lattice.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.05660v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Toward improving the visual stimulus meaning for increasing the P300 detection', ['Hubert Cecotti', 'Bertrand Rivet'], u'2016-12-12', u'The P300 speller is a well known Brain-Computer Interface paradigm that has been used for over two decades. A new P300 speller paradigm (XP300) is proposed. It includes several characteristics: (i) the items are not intensified by using rows and columns, (ii) the order of the visual stimuli is pseudo-random, (iii) a visual feedback is added on each item to increase the stimulus meaning, which is the main novelty. XP300 has been tested on ten healthy subjects on copy spelling mode, with only eight sensors. It has been compared with the classical P300 paradigm (CP300). With five repetitions, the average recognition rate across subjects is 85.25% for XP300 and 77.25% for CP300. Single-trial detection is significantly higher with XP300 by comparing the AUC (Area Under Curve) of the ROC (Receiver Operating Characteristic) curve. The mean AUC is 0.86 for XP300, 0.80 for CP300. More importantly, XP300 has also been judged as more convenient and user-friendly than CP300, hence being able to allow longer sessions.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.03640v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Statistics of Visual Responses to Object Stimuli from Primate AIT Neurons to DNN Neurons', ['Qiulei Dong', 'Zhanyi Hu'], u'2016-12-12', u"Cadieu et al. (Cadieu,2014) reported that deep neural networks(DNNs) could rival the representation of primate inferotemporal cortex for object recognition. Lehky et al. (Lehky,2011) provided a statistical analysis on neural responses to object stimuli in primate AIT cortex. They found the intrinsic dimensionality of object representations in AIT cortex is around 100 (Lehky,2014). Considering the outstanding performance of DNNs in object recognition, it is worthwhile investigating whether the responses of DNN neurons have similar response statistics to those of AIT neurons. Following Lehky et al.'s works, we analyze the response statistics to image stimuli and the intrinsic dimensionality of object representations of DNN neurons. Our findings show in terms of kurtosis and Pareto tail index, the response statistics on single-neuron selectivity and population sparseness of DNN neurons are fundamentally different from those of IT neurons except some special cases. By increasing the number of neurons and stimuli, the conclusions could alter substantially. In addition, with the ascendancy of the convolutional layers of DNNs, the single-neuron selectivity and population sparseness of DNN neurons increase, indicating the last convolutional layer is to learn features for object representations, while the following fully-connected layers are to learn categorization features. It is also found that a sufficiently large number of stimuli and neurons are necessary for obtaining a stable dimensionality. To our knowledge, this is the first work to analyze the response statistics of DNN neurons comparing with AIT neurons, and our results provide not only some insights into the discrepancy of DNN neurons with respect to IT neurons in object representation, but also shed some light on possible outcomes of IT neurons when the number of recorded neurons and stimuli is beyond the level in (Lehky,2011,2014).", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.03590v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Riccati-regularized Precision Matrices for Neuroimaging', ['Nicolas Honnorat', 'Christos Davatzikos'], u'2016-12-11', u'The introduction of graph theory in neuroimaging has pro- vided invaluable tools for the study of brain connectivity. These methods require the definition of a graph, which is typically derived by estimating the effective connectivity between brain regions through the optimization of an ill-posed inverse problem. Considerable efforts have been devoted to the development of methods extracting sparse connectivity graphs. The present paper aims at highlighting the benefits of an alternative ap- proach. We investigate low-rank L2 regularized matrices recently intro- duced under the denomination of Riccati regularized precision matrices. We demonstrate their benefits for the analysis of cortical thickness map and for the extraction of functional biomarkers from resting state fMRI scans. In addition, we explain how speed and result quality can be further improved with random projections. The promising results obtained using the Human Connectome Project dataset as well as the numerous possi- ble extensions and applications suggest that Riccati precision matrices might usefully complement current sparse approaches.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.03428v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Differential flatness for neuroscience population dynamics -- A preliminary study', ['Hugues Mounier'], u'2016-12-10', u'The present document is devoted to structural properties of neural population dynamics and especially their differential flatness. Several applications of differential flatness in the present context can be envisioned, among which: trajectory tracking, feedforward to feedback switching, cyclic character, positivity and boundedness.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.03314v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Towards deep learning with spiking neurons in energy based models with contrastive Hebbian plasticity', ['Thomas Mesnard', 'Wulfram Gerstner', 'Johanni Brea'], u'2016-12-09', u'In machine learning, error back-propagation in multi-layer neural networks (deep learning) has been impressively successful in supervised and reinforcement learning tasks. As a model for learning in the brain, however, deep learning has long been regarded as implausible, since it relies in its basic form on a non-local plasticity rule. To overcome this problem, energy-based models with local contrastive Hebbian learning were proposed and tested on a classification task with networks of rate neurons. We extended this work by implementing and testing such a model with networks of leaky integrate-and-fire neurons. Preliminary results indicate that it is possible to learn a non-linear regression task with hidden layers, spiking neurons and a local synaptic plasticity rule.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.03214v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Long-term sustained malaria control leads to inbreeding and fragmentation of Plasmodium vivax populations', ['Andreea Waltmann', 'Cristian Koepfli', 'Natacha Tessier', 'Stephan Karl', 'Andrew W. Darcy', 'Lyndes Wini', 'G. L. Abby Harrison', 'Celine Barnadas', 'Charlie Jennison', 'Harin Karunajeewa', 'Sarah Boyd', 'Maxine Whittaker', 'James Kazura', 'Melanie Bahlo', 'Ivo Mueller', 'Alyssa E. Barry'], u'2016-12-19', u'Plasmodium vivax populations are more resistant to malaria control strategies than Plasmodium falciparum, maintaining high genetic diversity and gene flow even at low transmission. To quantify the impact of declining transmission on P. vivax populations, we investigated population genetic structure over time during intensified control efforts and over a wide range of transmission intensities and spatial scales in the Southwest Pacific. Analysis of 887 P. vivax microsatellite haplotypes (Papua New Guinea, PNG = 443, Solomon Islands = 420, Vanuatu =24) revealed substantial population structure among countries and modestly declining diversity as transmission decreases over space and time. In the Solomon Islands, which has had sustained control efforts for 20 years, significant population structure was observed on different spatial scales down to the sub-village level. Up to 37% of alleles were partitioned between populations and significant multilocus linkage disequilibrium was observed indicating substantial inbreeding. High levels of haplotype relatedness around households and within a range of 300m are consistent with a focal and clustered infections suggesting that restricted local transmission occurs within the range of vector movement and that subsequent focal inbreeding may be a key factor contributing to the observed population structure. We conclude that unique transmission strategies, including relapse allows P. vivax populations to withstand pressure from control efforts for longer than P. falciparum. However sustained control efforts do eventually impact parasite population structure and with further control pressure, populations may eventually fragment into clustered foci that could be targeted for elimination.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.06050v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'A representation-theoretic approach to the calculation of evolutionary distance in bacteria', ['Jeremy G Sumner', 'Peter D Jarvis', 'Andrew R Francis'], u'2016-12-19', u'In the context of bacteria and models of their evolution under genome rearrangement, we explore a novel application of group representation theory to the inference of evolutionary history. Our contribution is to show, in a very general maximum likelihood setting, how to use elementary matrix algebra to sidestep intractable combinatorial computations and convert the problem into one of eigenvalue estimation amenable to standard numerical approximation techniques.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.06035v1', ['Populations and Evolution', 'Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Resolving the paradox of evolvability with learning theory: How evolution learns to improve evolvability on rugged fitness landscapes', ['Loizos Kounios', 'Jeff Clune', 'Kostas Kouvaris', 'Gunter P. Wagner', 'Mihaela Pavlicev', 'Daniel M. Weinreich', 'Richard A. Watson'], u'2016-12-18', u'It has been hypothesized that one of the main reasons evolution has been able to produce such impressive adaptations is because it has improved its own ability to evolve -- "the evolution of evolvability". Rupert Riedl, for example, an early pioneer of evolutionary developmental biology, suggested that the evolution of complex adaptations is facilitated by a developmental organization that is itself shaped by past selection to facilitate evolutionary innovation. However, selection for characteristics that enable future innovation seems paradoxical: natural selection cannot favor structures for benefits they have not yet produced, and favoring characteristics for benefits that have already been produced does not constitute future innovation. Here we resolve this paradox by exploiting a formal equivalence between the evolution of evolvability and learning systems. We use the conditions that enable simple learning systems to generalize, i.e., to use past experience to improve performance on previously unseen, future test cases, to demonstrate conditions where natural selection can systematically favor developmental organizations that benefit future evolvability. Using numerical simulations of evolution on highly epistatic fitness landscapes, we illustrate how the structure of evolved gene regulation networks can result in increased evolvability capable of avoiding local fitness peaks and discovering higher fitness phenotypes. Our findings support Riedl\'s intuition: Developmental organizations that "mimic" the organization of constraints on phenotypes can be favored by short-term selection and also facilitate future innovation. Importantly, the conditions that enable the evolution of such surprising evolvability follow from the same non-mysterious conditions that permit generalization in learning systems.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.05955v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'The appropriateness of ignorance in the inverse kinetic Ising model', ['Benjamin Dunn', 'Claudia Battistin'], u'2016-12-19', u'We develop efficient ways to consider and correct for the effects of hidden units for the paradigmatic case of the inverse kinetic Ising model with fully asymmetric couplings. We identify two sources of error in reconstructing the connectivity among the observed units while ignoring part of the network. One leads to a systematic bias in the inferred parameters, whereas the other involves correlations between the visible and hidden populations and has a magnitude that depends on the coupling strength. We estimate these two terms using a mean field approach and derive self-consistent equations for the couplings accounting for the systematic bias. Through application of these methods on simple networks of varying relative population size and connectivity strength, we assess how and under what conditions the hidden portion can influence inference and to what degree it can be crudely estimated. We find that for weak to moderately coupled systems, the effects of the hidden units is a simple rotation that can be easily corrected for. For strongly coupled systems, the non-systematic term becomes large and can no longer be safely ignored, further highlighting the importance of understanding the average strength of couplings for a given system of interest.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.06185v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Efficient Global Spatial-Angular Sparse Coding for Diffusion MRI with Separable Dictionaries', ['Evan Schwab', 'Rene Vidal', 'Nicolas Charon'], u'2016-12-18', u'Diffusion MRI (dMRI) can reconstruct neuronal fibers in the brain, in vivo, by measuring water diffusion along angular gradient directions in q-space. High angular resolution diffusion imaging (HARDI) can produce better estimates of fiber orientation than the popularly used diffusion tensor imaging, but the high number of samples needed to estimate diffusivity requires lengthy patient scan times. To accelerate dMRI, compressed sensing (CS) has been utilized by exploiting a sparse representation of the data, discovered through sparse coding. The sparser the representation, the fewer samples are needed to reconstruct a high resolution signal with limited information loss and so a focus of much dMRI research has been finding the sparsest possible dictionary representation. All prior methods, however, rely on an angular model of q-space signals in each voxel which fundamentally limits the global sparsity level since at least one dictionary atom is needed for each voxel. In contrast, we formulate a global spatial-angular representation of dMRI that will allow us to sparsely model an entire dMRI brain signal below the limit of one atom per voxel using joint spatial-angular sparse coding. But a main challenge is optimizing over large-scale dMRI data. In this work, we present extensions to a number of sparse coding algorithms that are better suited for large-scale problems by exploiting the separable Kronecker structure of our global spatial-angular dictionary. We compare the complexity and speed of our methods with prior Kronecker sparse coding algorithms and show promising sparsity results on phantom and real HARDI brain data for various dictionary choices. With great efficiency our method achieves significantly sparser HARDI representations than the state-of-the-art which has the potential achieve new levels of HARDI acceleration within a unified (k,q)-CS framework.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.05846v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Partial chord diagrams and matrix models', ['Jrgen Ellegaard Andersen', 'Hiroyuki Fuji', 'Masahide Manabe', 'Robert C. Penner', 'Piotr Sukowski'], u'2016-12-17', u'In this article, the enumeration of partial chord diagrams is discussed via matrix model techniques. In addition to the basic data such as the number of backbones and chords, we also consider the Euler characteristic, the backbone spectrum, the boundary point spectrum, and the boundary length spectrum. Furthermore, we consider the boundary length and point spectrum that unifies the last two types of spectra. We introduce matrix models that encode generating functions of partial chord diagrams filtered by each of these spectra. Using these matrix models, we derive partial differential equations - obtained independently by cut-and-join arguments in an earlier work - for the corresponding generating functions.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.05840v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Enumeration of chord diagrams via topological recursion and quantum curve techniques', ['Jrgen Ellegaard Andersen', 'Hiroyuki Fuji', 'Masahide Manabe', 'Robert C. Penner', 'Piotr Sukowski'], u'2016-12-17', u'In this paper we consider the enumeration of orientable and non-orientable chord diagrams. We show that this enumeration is encoded in appropriate expectation values of the $\\beta$-deformed Gaussian and RNA matrix models. We evaluate these expectation values by means of the $\\beta$-deformed topological recursion, and - independently - using properties of quantum curves. We show that both these methods provide efficient and systematic algorithms for counting of chord diagrams with a given genus, number of backbones and number of chords.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.05839v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Validation of gait characteristics extracted from raw accelerometry during walking against measures of physical function, mobility, fatigability, and fitness', ['Jacek K. Urbanek', 'Vadim Zipunnikov', 'Tamara Harris', 'Ciprian Crainiceanu', 'Jaroslaw Harezlak', 'Nancy W. Glynn'], u'2016-12-16', u'Background. Wearable accelerometry devices allow collection of high-density activity data in large epidemiological studies both in-the-lab as well as in-the-wild (free-living). Such data can be used to detect and identify periods of sustained harmonic walking. This report aims to establish whether the micro- and macro-features of walking identified in the laboratory and free-living environments are associated with measures of physical function, mobility, fatigability, and fitness. Methods. Fifty-one older adults (median age 77.5) enrolled in the Developmental Epidemiologic Cohort Study in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania were included in the analyses. The study included an in-the-lab component as well as 7 days of monitoring in-the-wild. Participants were equipped with hip-worn Actigraph GT3X+ activity monitors, which collect high-density raw accelerometry data. We applied a walking identification algorithm to the data and defined features of walking, such as participant-specific walking acceleration and cadence. The association between these walking features and physical function, mobility, fatigability, and fitness was quantified using linear regression analysis. Results. Micro-scale features of walking (acceleration and cadence) estimated from in-the-lab and in-the-wild data were associated with measures of physical function, mobility, fatigability, and fitness. In-the-lab median walking acceleration was strongly inversely associated with physical function, mobility, fatigability and fitness. Additionally, in-the-wild daily walking time was inversely associated with usual- and fast-paced 400m walking time. Conclusions. The proposed accelerometry-derived walking features are significantly associated with measures of physical function, mobility, fatigability, and fitness, which provides evidence of convergent validity.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.06313v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Structure, Function, and Control of the Musculoskeletal Network', ['Andrew C. Murphy', 'Sarah F. Muldoon', 'David Baker', 'Adam Lastowka', 'Brittany Bennett', 'Muzhi Yang', 'Danielle S. Bassett'], u'2016-12-13', u"The human body is a complex organism whose gross mechanical properties are enabled by an interconnected musculoskeletal network controlled by the nervous system. The nature of musculoskeletal interconnection facilitates stability, voluntary movement, and robustness to injury. However, a fundamental understanding of this network and its control by neural systems has remained elusive. Here we utilize medical databases and mathematical modeling to reveal the organizational structure, predicted function, and neural control of the musculoskeletal system. We construct a whole-body musculoskeletal network in which single muscles connect to multiple bones via both origin and insertion points. We demonstrate that a muscle's role in this network predicts susceptibility of surrounding components to secondary injury. Finally, we illustrate that sets of muscles cluster into network communities that mimic the organization of motor cortex control modules. This novel formalism for describing interactions between the muscular and skeletal systems serves as a foundation to develop and test therapeutic responses to injury, inspiring future advances in clinical treatments.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.06336v1', ['Tissues and Organs'], []]
[u'A Minimal Model of Burst-Noise Induced Bifurcations', ['Johannes Falk', 'Marc Mendler', 'Barbara Drossel'], u'2016-12-19', u'We investigate the influence of intrinsic noise on stable states of a one-dimensional dynamical system that shows in its deterministic version a saddle-node bifurcation between monostable and bistable behaviour. The system is a modified version of the Schl\\"ogl model, which is a chemical reaction system with only one type of molecule. The strength of the intrinsic noise is varied without changing the deterministic description by introducing bursts in the autocatalytic production step. We study the transitions between monostable and bistable behavior in this system by evaluating the number of maxima of the stationary probability distribution. We find that changing the size of bursts can destroy and even induce saddle-node bifurcations. This means that a bursty production of molecules can qualitatively change the dynamics of a chemical reaction system even when the deterministic description remains unchanged.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.06204v1', ['Molecular Networks'], []]
[u'Stochastic Model for Direction Changes of Swimming Bacteria', ['G. Fier', 'D. Hansmann', 'R. C. Buceta'], u'2016-12-12', u'In this work we introduce a stochastic model to describe directional changes in the movement of swimming bacteria. We use the probability density function (PDF) of turn angles, measured on tumbling \\textit{E. coli} wild-type, to build a Langevin equation for the deflection of the bacterial body swimming in isotropic media. We solved analytically this equation by means of the Green function method and show that three parameters are sufficient to describe the movement: a characteristic time, the steady-state solution and a control parameter. We conclude that the tumble motion, which is manifested as abrupt turns, is primarily caused by the rotational boost generated by the flagellar motor and complementarily by the rotational diffusion introduced by noise. We show that, in the tumble motion, the deflection is a non-stationary stochastic processes during times where the tumble occurs. By tuning the control parameter our model is able to explain small turns of the bacteria around their centres of mass along the run. We show that the deflection during the run is an Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process, which for typical run times is stationary. We conclude that, along the run, the rotational boosts do not exist or are neglectable and that only the rotational diffusion remains. Thus we have a single model to explain the turns of the bacterium during the run or tumble movements, through a control parameter that can be tuned through a critical value that can explain the transition between the two turn behaviours. This model is also able to explain very satisfactory all available statistical experimental data, such as PDFs and average values of turning angles and times, of both run and tumble motions.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.03812v1', ['Cell Behavior'], []]
