[u'A review of geometric, topological and graph theory apparatuses for the modeling and analysis of biomolecular data', ['Kelin Xia', 'Guo-Wei Wei'], u'2016-12-06', u'Geometric, topological and graph theory modeling and analysis of biomolecules are of essential importance in the conceptualization of molecular structure, function, dynamics, and transport. On the one hand, geometric modeling provides molecular surface and structural representation, and offers the basis for molecular visualization, which is crucial for the understanding of molecular structure and interactions. On the other hand, it bridges the gap between molecular structural data and theoretical/mathematical models. Topological analysis and modeling give rise to atomic critical points and connectivity, and shed light on the intrinsic topological invariants such as independent components (atoms), rings (pockets) and cavities. Graph theory analyzes biomolecular interactions and reveals biomolecular structure-function relationship. In this paper, we review certain geometric, topological and graph theory apparatuses for biomolecular data modeling and analysis. These apparatuses are categorized into discrete and continuous ones. For discrete approaches, graph theory, Gaussian network model, anisotropic network model, normal mode analysis, quasi-harmonic analysis, flexibility and rigidity index, molecular nonlinear dynamics, spectral graph theory, and persistent homology are discussed. For continuous mathematical tools, we present discrete to continuum mapping, high dimensional persistent homology, biomolecular geometric modeling, differential geometry theory of surfaces, curvature evaluation, variational derivation of minimal molecular surfaces, atoms in molecule theory and quantum chemical topology. Four new approaches, including analytical minimal molecular surface, Hessian matrix eigenvalue map, curvature map and virtual particle model, are introduced for the first time to bridge the gaps in biomolecular modeling and analysis.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.01735v1', ['Biomolecules'], []]
[u'A Graph Grammar for Modelling RNA Folding', ['Adane Letta Mamuye', 'Emanuela Merelli', 'Luca Tesei'], u'2016-12-06', u'We propose a new approach for modelling the process of RNA folding as a graph transformation guided by the global value of free energy. Since the folding process evolves towards a configuration in which the free energy is minimal, the global behaviour resembles the one of a self-adaptive system. Each RNA configuration is a graph and the evolution of configurations is constrained by precise rules that can be described by a graph grammar.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.01639v1', ['Biomolecules'], [u'School of Science and Technology, University of Camerino']]
[u'Statistical mechanics of unsupervised feature learning in a restricted Boltzmann machine with binary synapses', ['Haiping Huang'], u'2016-12-06', u'Revealing hidden features in unlabeled data is called unsupervised feature learning, which plays an important role in pretraining a deep neural network. Here we provide a statistical mechanics analysis of the unsupervised learning in a restricted Boltzmann machine with binary synapses. A message passing equation to infer the hidden feature is derived, and furthermore, variants of this equation are analyzed. A statistical analysis by replica theory describes the thermodynamic properties of the model. Our analysis confirms an entropy crisis preceding the non-convergence of the message passing equation, suggesting a discontinuous phase transition as a key characteristic of the restricted Boltzmann machine. Continuous phase transition is also confirmed depending on the embedded feature strength in the data. The mean-field result under the replica symmetric assumption agrees with that obtained by running message passing algorithms on single instances of finite sizes. Interestingly, in an approximate Hopfield model, the entropy crisis is absent, and a continuous phase transition is observed instead. We also develop an iterative equation to infer the hyper-parameter (temperature) hidden in the data, which in physics corresponds to iteratively imposing Nishimori condition. Our study provides insights towards understanding the thermodynamic properties of the restricted Boltzmann machine learning, and moreover important theoretical basis to build simplified deep networks.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.01717v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'A neuro-mathematical model for geometrical optical illusions', ['B. Franceschiello', 'A. Sarti', 'G. Citti'], u'2016-11-27', u'Geometrical optical illusions have been object of many studies due to the possibility they offer to understand the behaviour of low-level visual processing. They consist in situations in which the perceived geometrical properties of an object differ from those of the object in the visual stimulus. Starting from the geometrical model introduced by Citti and Sarti in [3], we provide a mathematical model and a computational algorithm which allows to interpret these phenomena and to qualitatively reproduce the perceived misperception.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1611.08844v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Modular knowledge systems accelerate human migration in asymmetric random environments', ['Dong Wang', 'Michael W. Deem'], u'2016-12-06', u'Migration is a key mechanism for expansion of communities. In spatially heterogeneous environments, rapidly gaining knowledge about the local environment is key to the evolutionary success of a migrating population. For historical human migration, environmental heterogeneity was naturally asymmetric in the north-south (NS) and east-west (EW) directions. We here consider the human migration process in the Americas, modeled as random, asymmetric, modularly correlated environments. Knowledge about the environments determines the fitness of each individual. We present a phase diagram for asymmetry of migration as a function of carrying capacity and fitness threshold. We find that the speed of migration is proportional to the inverse complement of the spatial environmental gradient, and in particular we find that north-south migration rates are lower than east-west migration rates when the environmental gradient is higher in the north-south direction. Communication of knowledge between individuals can help to spread beneficial knowledge within the population. The speed of migration increases when communication transmits pieces of knowledge that contribute in a modular way to the fitness of individuals. The results for the dependence of migration rate on asymmetry and modularity are consistent with existing archaeological observations. The results for asymmetry of genetic divergence are consistent with patterns of human gene flow.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.01910v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Is nestedness in mutualistic networks an evolutionary spandrel?', ['Sergi Valverde', 'Jose Montoya', 'Lucas Joppa', 'Ricard Sole'], u'2016-12-06', u'Mutualistic networks have been shown to involve complex patterns of interactions among animal and plant species. The architecture of these webs seems to pervade some of their robust and fragile behaviour. Recent work indicates that there is a strong correlation between the patterning of animal-plant interactions and their phylogenetic organisation. Here we show that such pattern and other reported regularities from mutualistic webs can be properly explained by means of a very simple model of speciation and divergence. This model also predicts a co-extinction dynamics under species loss consistent with the presence of an evolutionary signal. The agreement between observed and model networks suggests that some patterns displayed by real mutualistic webs might actually represent evolutionary spandrels.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.01606v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u"Zipf's law, unbounded complexity and open-ended evolution", ['Bernat Corominas-Murtra', 'Luis Seoane', 'Ricard Sole'], u'2016-12-06', u"A major problem for evolutionary theory is understanding the so called {\\em open-ended} nature of evolutionary change. Open-ended evolution (OEE) refers to the unbounded increase in complexity that seems to characterise evolution on multiple scales. This property seems to be a characteristic feature of biological and technological evolution and is strongly tied to the generative potential associated with combinatorics, which allows the system to grow and expand their available state spaces. Several theoretical and computational approaches have been developed to properly characterise OEE. Interestingly, many complex systems displaying OEE, from language to proteins, share a common statistical property: the presence of Zipf's law. Given and inventory of basic items required to build more complex structures Zipf's law tells us that most of these elements are rare whereas a few of them are extremely common. Using Algorithmic Information Theory, in this paper we provide a fundamental definition for open-endedness, which can be understood as {\\em postulates}. Its statistical counterpart, based on standard Shannon Information theory, has the structure of a variational problem which is shown to lead to Zipf's law as the expected consequence of an evolutionary processes displaying OEE. We further explore the problem of information conservation through an OEE process and we conclude that statistical information (standard Shannon information) is not conserved, resulting into the paradoxical situation in which the increase of information content has the effect of erasing itself. We prove that this paradox is solved if we consider non-statistical forms of information. This last result implies that standard information theory may not be a suitable theoretical framework to explore the persistence and increase of the information content in OEE systems.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.01605v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Species tree estimation using Neighbor Joining', ['Joseph Rusinko', 'Matthew McPartlon'], u'2016-12-06', u'Recent theoretical work has demonstrated that Neighbor Joining applied to concatenated DNA sequences is a statistically consistent method of species tree reconstruction. This brief note compares the accuracy of this approach to other popular statistically consistent species tree reconstruction algorithms including ASTRAL-II Neighbor Joining using average gene-tree internode distances (NJst) and SVD-Quartets+PAUP*, as well as concatenation using maximum likelihood (RaxML). We find that the faster Neighbor Joining, applied to concatenated sequences, is among the most effective of these methods for accurate species tree reconstruction.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.01602v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Mathematical model of plant-virus interactions mediated by RNA interference', ['G. Neofytou', 'Y. N. Kyrychko', 'K. B. Blyuss'], u'2016-12-05', u'Cross-protection, which refers to a process whereby artificially inoculating a plant with a mild strain provides protection against a more aggressive isolate of the virus, is known to be an effective tool of disease control in plants. In this paper we derive and analyse a new mathematical model of the interactions between two competing viruses with particular account for RNA interference. Our results show that co-infection of the host can either increase or decrease the potency of individual infections depending on the levels of cross-protection or cross-enhancement between different viruses. Analytical and numerical bifurcation analyses are employed to investigate the stability of all steady states of the model in order to identify parameter regions where the system exhibits synergistic or antagonistic behaviour between viral strains, as well as different types of host recovery. We show that not only viral attributes but also the propagating component of RNA-interference in plants can play an important role in determining the dynamics.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.01561v1', ['Populations and Evolution', 'Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Time-delayed model of RNA interference', ['G. Neofytou', 'Y. N. Kyrychko', 'K. B. Blyuss'], u'2016-12-05', u'RNA interference (RNAi) is a fundamental cellular process that inhibits gene expression through cleavage and destruction of target mRNA. It is responsible for a number of important intracellular functions, from being the first line of immune defence against pathogens to regulating development and morphogenesis. In this paper we consider a mathematical model of RNAi with particular emphasis on time delays associated with two aspects of primed amplification: binding of siRNA to aberrant RNA, and binding of siRNA to mRNA, both of which result in the expanded production of dsRNA responsible for RNA silencing. Analytical and numerical stability analyses are performed to identify regions of stability of different steady states and to determine conditions on parameters that lead to instability. Our results suggest that while the original model without time delays exhibits a bi-stability due to the presence of a hysteresis loop, under the influence of time delays, one of the two steady states with the high (default) or small (silenced) concentration of mRNA can actually lose its stability via a Hopf bifurcation. This leads to the co-existence of a stable steady state and a stable periodic orbit, which has a profound effect on the dynamics of the system.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.01571v1', ['Quantitative Methods', 'Molecular Networks'], []]
[u'One-dimensional Arterial Network Model for Bypass Grafts Assessment', ['Arthur Ghigo', 'Salam Abou Taam', 'Xiaofei Wang', 'Pierre-Yves Lagree', 'Jose-Maria Fullana'], u'2016-11-28', u"We propose an arterial network model based on 1D blood hemodynamic equations to study the behavior of different vascular surgical bypass grafts in case of an arterial occlusive pathology: an obliteration or stenosis of the iliac artery. We investigate the performances of three different bypass grafts (Aorto-Femoral, Axillo-Femoral and cross-over Femoral) depending on the degree of obliteration of the stenosis. Numerical simulations show that all bypass grafts are efficient since we retrieve in all cases the normal hemodynamics in the stenosed region while ensuring at the same time a global healthy circulation. We analyze in particular the Axillo-Femoral bypass graft by performing hundreds of simulations by varying the values of the Young's modulus [0.1--50 MPa] and the radius [0.01--5 cm] of the bypass graft. We show that the Young's modulus and radius of commercial bypass grafts are optimal in terms of hemodynamic considerations. The numerical findings prove that this approach could be used to optimize or plan surgeries for specific patients, to perform parameter's statistics and error propagation evaluations by running extensive simulations, or to characterize numerically specific bypass grafts.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1611.09192v1', ['Tissues and Organs'], [u'IJLRA']]
[u'Hydrolytic and lysozymic degradability of chitosan systems with heparin-mimicking pendant groups', ['Giuseppe Tronci', 'Petronela Buiga', 'Ahmed Alhilou', 'Thuy Do', 'Stephen J. Russell', 'David J. Wood'], u'2016-11-28', u'Chitosan (CT) is an antibacterial polysaccharide that has been investigated for drug carriers, haemostats and wound dressings. For these applications, customised CT devices can often be obtained with specific experimental conditions, which can irreversibly alter native biopolymer properties and functions and lead to unreliable material behaviour. In order to investigate the structure-function relationships in CT covalent networks, monosodium 5-sulfoisophthalate (PhS) was selected as heparin-mimicking, growth factor-binding crosslinking segment, whilst 1,4-phenylenediacetic acid (4Ph) and poly(ethylene glycol) bis(carboxymethyl) ether (PEG) were employed as sulfonic acid-free diacids of low and high crosslinker length respectively. Hydrogels based on short crosslinkers (PhS and 4Ph) displayed increased crosslink density, decreased swelling ratio as well as minimal hydrolytic and lysozymic degradation, whilst addition of lysozymes to PEG based networks resulted in 70 wt.-% mass loss. PhS-crosslinked CT hydrogels displayed the highest loss (40 +/- 6 CFU%) of antibacterial activity upon incubation with Porphyromonas gingivalis, whilst respective extracts were tolerated by L929 mouse fibroblasts.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1611.09019v2', ['Tissues and Organs'], []]
