[u'Organization and hierarchy of the human functional brain network lead to a chain-like core', ['Rossana Mastrandrea', 'Andrea Gabrielli', 'Fabrizio Piras', 'Gianfranco Spalletta', 'Guido Caldarelli', 'Tommaso Gili'], u'2017-01-17', u'The brain is a paradigmatic example of a complex system as its functionality emerges as a global property of local mesoscopic and microscopic interactions. Complex network theory allows to elicit the functional architecture of the brain in terms of links (correlations) between nodes (grey matter regions) and to extract information out of the noise. Here we present the analysis of functional magnetic resonance imaging data from forty healthy humans during the resting condition for the investigation of the basal scaffold of the functional brain network organization. We show how brain regions tend to coordinate by forming a highly hierarchical chain-like structure of homogeneously clustered anatomical areas. A maximum spanning tree approach revealed the centrality of the occipital cortex and the peculiar aggregation of cerebellar regions to form a closed core. We also report the hierarchy of network segregation and the level of clusters integration as a function of the connectivity strength between brain regions.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.04782v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'VOCSMAT: a connectionist-inspired treatment proposal for relational traumas', ['Alessandro Fontana'], u'2017-01-17', u'Psychological traumas are the main cause of post-traumatic stress disorder, which can be either simple or complex. Psychological traumas of various kinds are also present in a wide range of psychological conditions, including disorganised attachment, personality disorders, eating disorders, bipolar disorder and schizophrenia. For such conditions, traumatic experiences are often regarded as an exacerbating factor of symptoms induced by another major causative agent, often of a genetic-biological nature. The objective of this work is to propose an alternative vision, in which traumatic experiences represent an essential ingredient for the aforementioned conditions. This vision is based on a functional model of the mind, built around the concept of relational value, with ideas borrowed from the fields of computer science, artificial intelligence and neural networks. The analysis of mental dynamics accounts for the use of dissociation as primary response to trauma, explains the emergence of splitting as secondary defence line, and identifies in selective dissociation the tool used by the mind to survive and function in traumatic contexts. Finally, the insight gained through the model is used to sketch a new psycotherapy for psychological traumas.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.04675v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Human perception in computer vision', ['Ron Dekel'], u'2017-01-17', u'Computer vision has made remarkable progress in recent years. Deep neural network (DNN) models optimized to identify objects in images exhibit unprecedented task-trained accuracy and, remarkably, some generalization ability: new visual problems can now be solved more easily based on previous learning. Biological vision (learned in life and through evolution) is also accurate and general-purpose. Is it possible that these different learning regimes converge to similar problem-dependent optimal computations? We therefore asked whether the human system-level computation of visual perception has DNN correlates and considered several anecdotal test cases. We found that perceptual sensitivity to image changes has DNN mid-computation correlates, while sensitivity to segmentation, crowding and shape has DNN end-computation correlates. Our results quantify the applicability of using DNN computation to estimate perceptual loss, and are consistent with the fascinating theoretical view that properties of human perception are a consequence of architecture-independent visual learning.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.04674v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Macroscopic Models for Networks of Coupled Biological Oscillators', ['Kevin M. Hannay', 'Daniel B. Forger', 'Victoria Booth'], u'2017-01-16', u'The study of synchronization in populations of coupled biological oscillators is fundamental to many areas of biology to include neuroscience, cardiac dynamics and circadian rhythms. Studying these systems may involve tracking the concentration of hundreds of variables in thousands of individual cells resulting in an extremely high-dimensional description of the system. However, for many of these systems the behaviors of interest occur on a collective or macroscopic scale. We define a new macroscopic reduction for networks of coupled oscillators motivated by an elegant structure we find in experimental measurements of circadian gene expression and several mathematical models for coupled biological oscillators. We characterize the emergence of this structure through a simple argument and demonstrate its applicability to stochastic and heterogeneous systems of coupled oscillators. Finally, we perform the macroscopic reduction for the heterogeneous stochastic Kuramoto equation and compare the low-dimensional macroscopic model with numerical results from the high-dimensional microscopic model.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.04404v1', ['Neurons and Cognition', 'Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Comparative Analysis of Dengue versus Chikungunya Outbreaks in Costa Rica', ['Fabio Sanchez', 'Luis A. Barboza', 'David Burton', 'Ariel Cintron-Arias'], u'2017-01-17', u'For decades, dengue virus has been a cause of major public health concern in Costa Rica, due to its landscape and climatic conditions that favor the circumstances in which the vector, Aedes aegypti, thrives. The emergence and introduction throughout tropical and subtropical countries of the chikungunya virus, as of 2014, challenged Costa Rican health authorities to provide a correct diagnosis since it is also transmitted by the same vector and infected hosts may share similar symptoms. We study the 2015-2016 dengue and chikungunya outbreaks in Costa Rica while establishing how point estimates of epidemic parameters for both diseases compare to one another. Longitudinal weekly incidence reports of these outbreaks signal likely misdiagnosis of infected individuals: underreporting of chikungunya cases, while overreporting cases of dengue. Our comparative analysis is formulated with a single-outbreak deterministic model that features an undiagnosed class. Additionally, we also used a genetic algorithm in the context of weighted least squares to calculate point estimates of key model parameters and initial conditions, while formally quantifying misdiagnosis.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.04504v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Introduction to Delay Models and Their Wave Solutions', ['Majid Bani-Yaghoub'], u'2017-01-16', u'In this paper, a brief review of delay population models and their applications in ecology is provided. The inclusion of diffusion and nonlocality terms in delay models has given more capabilities to these models enabling them to capture several ecological phenomena such as the Allee effect, waves of invasive species and spatio-temporal competitions of interacting species. Moreover, recent advances in the studies of traveling and stationary wave solutions of delay models are outlined. In particular, the existence of stationary and traveling wave solutions of delay models, stability of wave solutions, formation of wavefronts in the special domain, and possible outcomes of delay models are discussed.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.04703v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Enhancing Quantum Annealing Performance for the Molecular Similarity Problem', ['Maritza Hernandez', 'Maliheh Aramon'], u'2017-01-16', u"Quantum annealing is a promising technique which leverages quantum mechanics to solve hard optimization problems. Considerable progress has been made in the development of a physical quantum annealer, motivating the study of methods to enhance the efficiency of such a solver. In this work, we present a quantum annealing approach to measure similarity among molecular structures. Implementing real-world problems on a quantum annealer is challenging due to hardware limitations such as sparse connectivity, intrinsic control error, and limited precision. In order to overcome the limited connectivity, a problem must be reformulated using minor-embedding techniques. Using a real data set, we investigate the performance of a quantum annealer in solving the molecular similarity problem. We provide experimental evidence that common practices for embedding can be replaced by new alternatives which mitigate some of the hardware limitations and enhance its performance. Common practices for embedding include minimizing either the number of qubits or the chain length, and determining the strength of ferromagnetic couplers empirically. We show that current criteria for selecting an embedding do not improve the hardware's performance for the molecular similarity problem. Furthermore, we use a theoretical approach to determine the strength of ferromagnetic couplers. Such an approach removes the computational burden of the current empirical approaches, and also results in hardware solutions that can benefit from simple local classical improvement. Although our results are limited to the problems considered here, they can be generalized to guide future benchmarking studies.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.04433v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Orientational Phase Transitions and the Assembly of Viral Capsids', ['Sanjay Dharmavaram', 'Fangming Xie', 'William Klug', 'Joseph Rudnick', 'Robijn Bruinsma'], u'2017-01-16', u'We present a generalized Landau-Brazovskii free energy for the solidification of chiral molecules on a spherical surface in the context of the assembly of viral shells. We encounter two types of icosahedral solidification transitions. The first type is a conventional first-order phase transition from the uniform to the icosahedral state. It can be described by a single icosahedral spherical harmonic of even $l$. The chiral pseudo-scalar term in the free energy creates secondary terms with chiral character but it does not affect the thermodynamics of the transition. The second type, associated with icosahedral spherical harmonics with odd $l$, is anomalous. Pure odd $l$ icosahedral states are unstable but stability is recovered if admixture with the neighboring $l+1$ icosahedral spherical harmonic is included, generated by the non-linear terms. This is in conflict with the principle of Landau theory that symmetry-breaking transitions are characterized by only a \\textit{single} irreducible representation of the symmetry group of the uniform phase and we argue that this principle should be removed from Landau theory. The chiral term now directly affects the transition because it lifts the degeneracy between two isomeric mixed-$l$ icosahedral states. A direct transition is possible only over a limited range of parameters. Outside this range, non-icosahedral states intervene. For the important case of capsid assembly dominated by $l=15$, the intervening states are found to be based on octahedral symmetry.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.04452v1', ['Subcellular Processes'], []]
[u'Screening and merging algorithm for the detection of copy-number alterations', ['Murilo S. Pinheiro', 'Benilton S. Carvalho', 'Aluisio S. Pinheiro'], u'2017-01-16', u"We call change-point problem (CPP) the identification of changes in the probabilistic behavior of a sequence of observations. Solving the CPP involves detecting the number and position of such changes. In genetics the study of how and what characteristics of a individual's genetic content might contribute to the occurrence and evolution of cancer has fundamental importance in the diagnosis and treatment of such diseases and can be formulated in the framework of chage-point analysis. In this article we propose a modification to a existing method of segmentation with the objective of producing a algorithm that is robust to a variety of sampling distributions and that is adequate for more recent method of accessing DNA copy-number which might require a restriction on the minimum length of a altered segment.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.04405v1', ['Genomics'], []]
