[u'Convex Neural Codes in Dimension 1', ['Zvi Rosen', 'Yan X. Zhang'], u'2017-02-22', u'Neural codes are collections of binary strings motivated by patterns of neural activity. In this paper, we study algorithmic and enumerative aspects of convex neural codes in dimension 1 (i.e. on a line or a circle). We use the theory of consecutive-ones matrices to obtain some structural and algorithmic results; we use generating functions to obtain enumerative results.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.06907v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Visual response properties of MSTd emerge from a sparse population code', ['Michael Beyeler', 'Nikil Dutt', 'Jeffrey L. Krichmar'], u'2017-02-22', u'Neurons in the dorsal subregion of the medial superior temporal (MSTd) area respond to large, complex patterns of retinal flow, implying a role in the analysis of self-motion. Some neurons are selective for the expanding radial motion that occurs as an observer moves through the environment ("heading"), and computational models can account for this finding. However, ample evidence suggests that MSTd neurons may exhibit a continuum of visual response selectivity to large-field motion stimuli, but the underlying computational principles by which these response properties are derived remain poorly understood. Here we describe a computational model of MSTd based on the hypothesis that neurons in MSTd efficiently encode the continuum of large-field retinal flow patterns on the basis of inputs received from neurons in MT, with receptive fields that resemble basis vectors recovered with nonnegative matrix factorization (NMF). These assumptions are sufficient to quantitatively simulate neurophysiological response properties of MSTd cells such as radial, circular, and spiral motion tuning, suggesting that these properties might simply be a by-product of MSTd neurons performing dimensionality reduction on their inputs. At the population level, model MSTd accurately predicts heading using a sparse distributed code, consistent with the idea that biological MSTd might operate in a sparseness regime well-suited to efficiently encode a number of self-motion variables. The present work provides an alternative to the template-model view of MSTd, and offers a biologically plausible account of the receptive field structure across a wide range of visual response properties in MSTd.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.06665v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Applications of Discrete Mathematics for Understanding Dynamics of Synapses and Networks in Neuroscience', ['Caitlyn M. Parmelee'], u'2017-02-21', u'Mathematical modeling has broad applications in neuroscience whether modeling the dynamics of a single synapse or an entire network of neurons. In Part I, we model vesicle replenishment and release at the photoreceptor synapse to better understand how visual information is processed. In Part II, we explore a simple model of neural networks with the goal of discovering how network structure shapes the behavior of the network. To fully understand how visual information is processed requires an understanding of the way signals are transformed at the ribbon synapse of photoreceptor neurons. These synapses possess a ribbon-like structure capable of storing around 100 synaptic vesicles, allowing graded responses through the release of different numbers of vesicles in response to visual input. These responses depend critically on the ability of the ribbon to replenish itself as ribbon sites empty upon release. The rate of vesicle replenishment is thus an important factor in shaping neural coding in the retina. In collaboration with experimental neuroscientists we developed a mathematical model to describe the dynamics of vesicle release and replenishment at the ribbon synapse. To learn more about how network architecture shapes the dynamics of the network, we study a specific type of threshold-linear network that is constructed from a simple directed graph. The network construction guarantees that differences in dynamics arise solely from differences in the connectivity of the underlying graph. By design, the activity of these networks is bounded and there are no stable fixed points. Computational experiments show that most of these networks yield limit cycles where the neurons fire in sequence. We devised an algorithm to predict the sequence of firing using the structure of the underlying graph. Using the algorithm we classify all the networks of this type on five or fewer nodes.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.06538v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u"Using Redescription Mining to Relate Clinical and Biological Characteristics of Cognitively Impaired and Alzheimer's Disease Patients", ['Matej Mihelcic', 'Goran Simic', 'Mirjana Babic Leko', 'Nada Lavrac', 'Saso Dzeroski', 'Tomislav Smuc'], u'2017-02-20', u"Based on a set of subjects and a collection of descriptors obtained from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative database, we use redescription mining to find rules revealing associations between these determinants which provides insights about the Alzheimer's disease (AD). We applied a four-step redescription mining algorithm (CLUS-RM), which has been extended to engender constraint-based redescription mining (CBRM) and enables several modes of targeted exploration of specific, user-defined associations. To a large extent we confirmed known findings, previously reported in the literature. However, several redescriptions contained biological descriptors that differentiated well between the groups and for which connection to AD is still not completely explained. Examples include testosterone, ciliary neurotrophic factor, brain natriuretic peptide, insulin etc. The imaging descriptor Spatial Pattern of Abnormalities for Recognition of Early AD and levels of leptin and angiopoietin-2 in plasma were also found to be remarkably good descriptors, that may provide better understanding of AD pathogenesis. Finally, the most intriguing and novel finding was the high association of the Pregnancy-Associated Protein-A (PAPP-A) with cognitive impairment in AD. The high importance of this finding lies in the fact that PAPP-A is a metalloproteinase, known to cleave insulin-like growth factor binding proteins. Since it also shares similar substrates with A Disintegrin and Metalloproteinase family of enzymes that act as {\\alpha}-secretase to physiologically cleave amyloid precursor protein (APP) in the non-amyloidogenic pathway, it could be directly involved in metabolism of APP very early during the disease course. Therefore, further studies should investigate the role of PAPP-A in the development of AD more thoroughly.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.06831v1', ['Neurons and Cognition', 'Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Reducing the uncertainty in the forest volume-to-biomass relationship built from limited field plots', ['Caixia Liu', 'Xiaolu Zhou', 'Xiangdong Lei', 'Huabing Huang', 'Changhui Peng', 'Xiaoyi Wang', 'Jianfeng Sun', 'Carl Zhou'], u'2017-02-22', u'The method of biomass estimation based on a volume-to-biomass relationship has been applied in estimating forest biomass conventionally through the mean volume (m3 ha-1). However, few studies have been reported concerning the verification of the volume-biomass equations regressed using field data. The possible bias may result from the volume measurements and extrapolations from sample plots to stands or a unit area. This paper addresses (i) how to verify the volume-biomass equations, and (ii) how to reduce the bias while building these equations. This paper presents an applicable method for verifying the field data using reasonable wood densities, restricting the error in field data processing based on limited field plots, and achieving a better understanding of the uncertainty in building those equations. The verified and improved volume-biomass equations are more reliable and will help to estimate forest carbon sequestration and carbon balance at any large scale.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.06650v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'An age-structured continuum model for myxobacteria', ['Pierre Degond', 'Angelika Manhart', 'Hui Yu'], u'2017-02-22', u'Myxobacteria are social bacteria, that can glide in 2D and form counter-propagating, interacting waves. Here we present a novel age-structured, continuous macroscopic model for the movement of myxobacteria. The derivation is based on microscopic interaction rules that can be formulated as a particle-based model and set within the SOH (Self-Organized Hydrodynamics) framework. The strength of this combined approach is that microscopic knowledge or data can be incorporated easily into the particle model, whilst the continuous model allows for easy numerical analysis of the different effects. This allows to analyze the influence of a refractory (insensitivity) period following a reversal of movement. Our analysis reveals that the refractory period is not necessary for wave formation, but essential to wave synchronization, indicating separate molecular mechanisms.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.06939v1', ['Cell Behavior'], []]
[u'Phenomenlogical Modeling of Durotaxis', ['Guangyuan Yu', 'Jingchen Feng', 'Haoran Man', 'Herbert Levine'], u'2017-02-21', u'Cells exhibit qualitatively different behaviors on substrates with different rigidities. The fact that cells are more polarized on the stiffer substrate motivates us to construct a two-dimensional cell with the distribution of focal adhesions dependent on substrate rigidities. This distribution affects the forces exerted by the cell and thereby determines its motion. Our model reproduces the experimental observation that the persistence time is higher on the stiffer substrate. This stiffness dependent persistence will lead to durotaxis, the preference in moving towards stiffer substrates. This propensity is characterized by the durotaxis index first defined in experiments. We derive and validate a 2D corresponding Fokker-Planck equation associated with our model. Our approach highlights the possible role of the focal adhesion arrangement in durotaxis.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.06624v1', ['Cell Behavior'], []]
[u'Memory Matching Networks for Genomic Sequence Classification', ['Jack Lanchantin', 'Ritambhara Singh', 'Yanjun Qi'], u'2017-02-22', u'When analyzing the genome, researchers have discovered that proteins bind to DNA based on certain patterns of the DNA sequence known as "motifs". However, it is difficult to manually construct motifs due to their complexity. Recently, externally learned memory models have proven to be effective methods for reasoning over inputs and supporting sets. In this work, we present memory matching networks (MMN) for classifying DNA sequences as protein binding sites. Our model learns a memory bank of encoded motifs, which are dynamic memory modules, and then matches a new test sequence to each of the motifs to classify the sequence as a binding or nonbinding site.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.06760v1', ['Genomics'], []]
