[u'Issues in data expansion in understanding criticality in biological systems', ['Vaibhav Wasnik'], u'2017-01-10', u'At the point of a second order phase transition also termed as a critical point, systems display long range order and their macroscopic behaviors are independent of the microscopic details making up the system. Due to these properties, it has long been speculated that biological systems that show similar behavior despite having very different microscopics, may be operating near a critical point. Recent methods in neuroscience are making it possible to explore whether criticality exists in neural networks. Despite being large in size, many data sets are still only a minute sample of the neural system and methods towards expanding these data sets have to be considered in order to study the existence of criticality. In this work we develop an analytical method of expanding a dataset to the large N limit so that statements about the critical nature of the data set could be made. We also show using a particular dataset analyzed computationally in literature that expanding data sets keeping the moments of the original data set need not lead to unique values of the critical temperature when the large N limit is considered analytically, despite the mirage of them appearing to do so when analyzed computationally. This suggests that not all available data sets from experiments are amenable for understanding the critically of the underlying system.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.02599v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Loose social organisation of AB strain zebrafish groups in a two-patch environment', ['Axel Seguret', 'Bertrand Collignon', 'Leo Cazenille', 'Yohann Chemtob', 'Jose Halloy'], u'2017-01-10', u'We explore the collective behaviours of 7 group sizes: 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 10 and 20 AB zebrafish (Danio rerio) in a constraint environment composed of two identical squared rooms connected by a corridor. This simple set-up is similar to a natural patchy environment. We track the positions and the identities of the fish and compute the metrics at the group and at the individual levels. First, we show that the size of the population affects the behaviour of each individual in a group, the cohesion of the groups, the preferential interactions and the transition dynamics between the two rooms. Second, during collective departures, we show that the rankings of exit correspond to the topological organisations of the fish prior to their collective departure with no leadership. This spatial organisation emerge in the group a few seconds before a collective departure. These results provide new evidences on the spatial organisation of the groups and the effect of the population size on individual and collective behaviours in a patchy environment.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.02572v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Information theory, predictability, and the emergence of complex life', ['Luis F Seoane', 'Ricard Sole'], u'2017-01-09', u'Despite the obvious advantage of simple life forms capable of fast replication, different levels of cognitive complexity have been achieved by living systems in terms of their potential to cope with environmental uncertainty. Against the inevitable cost associated to detecting environmental cues and responding to them in adaptive ways, we conjecture that the potential for predicting the environment can overcome the expenses associated to maintaining costly, complex structures. We present a minimal formal model grounded in information theory and selection, in which successive generations of agents are mapped into transmitters and receivers of a coded message. Our agents are guessing machines and their capacity to deal with environments of different complexity defines the conditions to sustain more complex agents.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.02389v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'SPEW: Synthetic Populations and Ecosystems of the World', ['Shannon Gallagher', 'Lee Richardson', 'Samuel L. Ventura', 'William F. Eddy'], u'2017-01-09', u'Agent-based models (ABMs) simulate interactions between autonomous agents in constrained environments over time. ABMs are often used for modeling the spread of infectious diseases. In order to simulate disease outbreaks or other phenomena, ABMs rely on "synthetic ecosystems," or information about agents and their environments that is representative of the real world. Previous approaches for generating synthetic ecosystems have some limitations: they are not open-source, cannot be adapted to new or updated input data sources, and do not allow for alternative methods for sampling agent characteristics and locations. We introduce a general framework for generating Synthetic Populations and Ecosystems of the World (SPEW), implemented as an open-source R package. SPEW allows researchers to choose from a variety of sampling methods for agent characteristics and locations when generating synthetic ecosystems for any geographic region. SPEW can produce synthetic ecosystems for any agent (e.g. humans, mosquitoes, etc), provided that appropriate data is available. We analyze the accuracy and computational efficiency of SPEW given different sampling methods for agent characteristics and locations and provide a suite of diagnostics to screen our synthetic ecosystems. SPEW has generated over five billion human agents across approximately 100,000 geographic regions in about 70 countries, available online.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.02383v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'The Energetic Cost of Building a Virus', ['Gita Mahmoudabadi', 'Ron Milo', 'Rob Phillips'], u'2017-01-05', u"Viruses are incapable of autonomous energy production. Although many experimental studies make it clear that viruses are parasitic entities that hijack the host's molecular resources, a detailed estimate for the energetic cost of viral synthesis is largely lacking. To quantify the energetic cost of viruses to their hosts, we enumerated the costs associated with two very distinct but representative DNA and RNA viruses, namely T4 and influenza. We found that for these viruses, translation of viral proteins is the most energetically expensive process. Interestingly, the cost of building a T4 phage and a single influenza virus are nearly the same. Due to influenza's higher burst size, however, the overall cost of a T4 phage infection is only 2-3% of the cost of an influenza infection. The costs of these infections relative to their host's estimated energy budget during the infection reveal that a T4 infection consumes about a third of its host's energy budget, where as an influenza infection consumes only 1%. Building on our estimates for T4, we show how the energetic costs of double-stranded DNA viruses scale with virus size, revealing that the dominant cost of building a virus can switch from translation to genome replication above a critical virus size. Lastly, using our predictions for the energetic cost of viruses, we provide estimates for the strengths of selection and genetic drift acting on newly incorporated genetic elements in viral genomes, under conditions of energy limitation.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.02565v1', ['Populations and Evolution', 'Subcellular Processes'], []]
[u'Dynamical compensation in biological systems as a particular case of structural non-identifiability', ['Alejandro F. Villaverde', 'Julio R. Banga'], u'2017-01-10', u'Dynamical compensation (DC) has been recently defined as the ability of a biological system to keep its output dynamics unchanged in the face of varying parameters. This concept is purported to describe a design principle that provides robustness to physiological circuits. Here we note the similitude between DC and Structural Identifiability (SI), and we argue that the former can be explained in terms of (lack of) the latter. We propose to exploit this fact by using currently existing tools for SI analysis to perform DC analysis. We demonstrate the feasibility of this approach with four physiological circuits, for which we confirm the correspondence between DC and lack of SI. We also warn that care should we taken when using an unidentifiable model to extract biological insight, since lack of SI can be the result of an inappropriate choice of model structure and therefore not necessarily a sign of biological robustness.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.02562v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Synthesis of Methotrexate loaded Cerium fluoride nanoparticles with pH sensitive extended release coupled with Hyaluronic acid receptor with plausible theranostic capabilities for preclinical safety studies', ['Nitish Manu George'], u'2016-12-30', u'A key challenge in drug delivery systems is the real time monitoring of delivered drug and subsequent response. Recent advancement in nanotechnology has enabled the design and preclinical implementation of novel drug delivery systems (DDS) with theranostic abilities. Herein, fluorescent cerium fluoride (CeF3) nanoparticles (nps) were synthesized and their surface modified with a coat of polyethylenimine (PEI). Thereafter, Methotrexate was conjugated upon it through glutaraldehyde crosslinking for a pH-sensitive release. This was followed by the addition of a Hyaluronic acid (HA) receptor via 1-Ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)-carbodiimide and N-hydroxysuccinimide (EDC-NHS) chemistry to achieve a possible active drug targeting system. The obtained drug delivery nano-agent retains and exhibits unique photo-luminescent properties attributed to the nps while exhibiting potential theranostic capabilities.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.02588v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
