[u'Change in flexibility of DNA with binding ligands', ['Anurag Singh', 'Amar Nath Gupta'], u'2017-02-01', u'The percentage and sequence of AT and GC base pairs and charges on the DNA backbone contribute significantly to the stiffness of DNA. This elastic property of DNA also changes with small interacting ligands. The single-molecule force spectroscopy technique shows different interaction modes by measuring the mechanical properties of DNA bound with small ligands. When a ds-DNA molecule is overstretched in the presence of ligands, it undergoes a co-operative structural transition based on the externally applied force, the mode of binding of the ligands, the binding constant of the ligands to the DNA, the concentration of the ligands and the ionic strength of the supporting medium. This leads to the changes in the regions- upto 60 pN, cooperative structural transition region and the overstretched region, compared to that of the FEC in the absence of any binding ligand. The cooperative structural transitions were studied by the extended and twistable worm-like chain model. Here we have depicted these changes in persistence length and the elastic modulus constant as a function of binding constant and the concentration of the bound ligands, which vary with time. Therefore, besides ionic strength, interacting proteins and content of AT and GC base pairs, the ligand binding or intercalation with the ligands is an important parameter which changes the stiffness of DNA.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.00203v1', ['Biomolecules'], []]
[u'Topological Principles of Control in Dynamical Network Systems', ['Jason Kim', 'Jonathan M. Soffer', 'Ari E. Kahn', 'Jean M. Vettel', 'Fabio Pasqualetti', 'Danielle S. Basset'], u'2017-02-01', u"Networked systems display complex patterns of interactions between a large number of components. In physical networks, these interactions often occur along structural connections that link components in a hard-wired connection topology, supporting a variety of system-wide dynamical behaviors such as synchronization. While descriptions of these behaviors are important, they are only a first step towards understanding the relationship between network topology and system behavior, and harnessing that relationship to optimally control the system's function. Here, we use linear network control theory to analytically relate the topology of a subset of structural connections (those linking driver nodes to non-driver nodes) to the minimum energy required to control networked systems. As opposed to the numerical computations of control energy, our accurate closed-form expressions yield general structural features in networks that require significantly more or less energy to control, providing topological principles for the design and modification of network behavior. To illustrate the utility of the mathematics, we apply this approach to high-resolution connectomes recently reconstructed from drosophila, mouse, and human brains. We use these principles to show that connectomes of increasingly complex species are wired to reduce control energy. We then use the analytical expressions we derive to perform targeted manipulation of the brain's control profile by removing single edges in the network, a manipulation that is accessible to current clinical techniques in patients with neurological disorders. Cross-species comparisons suggest an advantage of the human brain in supporting diverse network dynamics with small energetic costs, while remaining unexpectedly robust to perturbations. Our results ground the expectation of a system's dynamical behavior in its network architecture.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.00354v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Process reveals structure: How a network is traversed mediates expectations about its architecture', ['Elisabeth A. Karuza', 'Ari E. Kahn', 'Sharon L. Thompson-Schill', 'Danielle S. Bassett'], u'2017-02-01', u'Network science has emerged as a powerful tool through which we can study the higher-order architectural properties of the world around us. How human learners exploit this information remains an essential question. Here, we focus on the temporal constraints that govern such a process. Participants viewed a continuous sequence of images generated by three distinct walks on a modular network. Walks varied along two critical dimensions: their predictability and the density with which they sampled from communities of images. Learners exposed to walks that richly sampled from each community exhibited a sharp increase in processing time upon entry into a new community. This effect was eliminated in a highly regular walk that sampled exhaustively from images in short, successive cycles (i.e., that increasingly minimized uncertainty about the nature of upcoming stimuli). These results demonstrate that temporal organization plays an essential role in how robustly knowledge of network architecture is acquired.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.00101v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Distribution of phenotype sizes in sequence-to-structure genotype-phenotype maps', ['Susanna Manrubia', 'Jose A. Cuesta'], u'2017-02-01', u'An essential quantity to ensure evolvability of populations is the navigability of the genotype space. Navigability relies on the existence of sufficiently large genotype networks, that is ensembles of sequences with the same phenotype that guarantee an efficient random drift through sequence space. The number of sequences compatible with a given structure (e.g. the number of RNA sequences folding into a particular secondary structure, or the number of DNA sequences coding for the same protein structure) is astronomically large in all functional molecules investigated. However, an exhaustive experimental or computational study of all RNA folds or all protein structures becomes impossible even for moderately long sequences. Here, we analytically derive the distribution of phenotype sizes for a hierarchy of models which successively incorporate features of increasingly realistic sequence-to-structure genotype-phenotype maps. The main feature of these models relies on the characterization of each phenotype through a prototypical sequence whose sites admit a variable fraction of letters of the alphabet. Our models interpolate between two limit distributions: a powerlaw distribution, when the ordering of sites in the prototypical sequence is strongly constrained, and a lognormal distribution, as suggested for RNA, when different orderings of the same set of sites yield different phenotypes. Our main result is the qualitative and quantitative identification of those features of the sequence-to-structure map that lead to different distributions of phenotype sizes.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.00351v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Dynamic Analysis of Delayed Bet-Hedging Strategies Under Environmental Fluctuations', ['Masaki Ogura', 'Masashi Wakaiki', 'Harvey Rubin', 'Victor M. Preciado'], u'2017-02-01', u"Many biological populations, such as bacterial colonies, have developed through evolution a protection mechanism, called bet-hedging, to increase their probability of survival under stressful environmental fluctutation. In this context, the concept of preadaptation refers to a common type of bet-hedging protection strategy in which a relatively small number of individuals in a population stochastically switch their phenotypes to a `dormant' metabolic state in which they increase their probability of survival against potential environmental shocks. Hence, if an environmental shock took place at some point in time, preadapted organisms would be better adapted to survive and proliferate once the shock is over. In many biological populations, the mechanisms of preadaptation and proliferation present delays whose influence in the fitness of the population are not well-understood. In this paper, we propose a rigorous mathematical framework to analyze the role of delays in both preadaptation and proliferation mechanisms in the survival of biological populations, with an emphasis on bacterial colonies. Our theoretical framework allows us to analytically quantify the average growth rate of a bet-hedging bacterial colony with stochastically delayed reactions with arbitrary precision. We verify the accuracy of the proposed method by numerical simulations and conclude that the growth rate of a bet-hedging population shows a non-trivial dependency on their preadaptation and proliferation delays. Contrary to the current belief, our results show that faster reactions do not, in general, increase the overall fitness of a biological population.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.00094v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Products of Compartmental Models in Epidemiology', ['Lee Worden', 'Travis C. Porco'], u'2017-01-31', u'In this paper, we show that many structured epidemic models may be described using a straightforward product structure. Such products, derived from products of directed graphs, may represent useful refinements including geographic and demographic structure, age structure, gender, risk groups, or immunity status. Extension to multi-strain dynamics, i.e. pathogen heterogeneity, is also shown to be feasible in this framework. Systematic use of such products may aid in model development and exploration, can yield insight, and could form the basis of a systematic approach to numerical structural sensitivity analysis.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.00031v1', ['Populations and Evolution', 'Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Phenomenological forecasting of disease incidence using heteroskedastic Gaussian processes: a dengue case study', ['Leah R. Johnson', 'Robert B. Gramacy', 'Jeremy Cohen', 'Erin Mordecai', 'Courtney Murdock', 'Jason Rohr', 'Sadie J. Ryan', 'Anna M. Stewart-Ibarra', 'Daniel Weikel'], u'2017-02-01', u'In 2015 the US federal government sponsored a dengue forecasting competition using historical case data from Iquitos, Peru and San Juan, Puerto Rico. Competitors were evaluated on several aspects of out-of-sample forecasts including the targets of peak week, peak incidence during that week and total season incidence across each of several seasons. Our team was one of the top performers of that competition, outperforming all other teams in multiple targets/locals. In this paper we report on our methodology, a large component of which, surprisingly, ignores the known biology of epidemics at large---in particular relationships between dengue transmission and environmental factors---and instead relies on flexible nonparametric nonlinear Gaussian process (GP) regression fits that "memorize" the trajectories of past seasons, and then "match" the dynamics of the unfolding season to past ones in real-time. Our phenomenological approach has advantages in situations where disease dynamics are less well understood, e.g., at sites with shorter histories of disease (such as Iquitos), or where measurements and forecasts of ancillary covariates like precipitation are unavailable and/or where the strength of association with cases are as yet unknown. In particular, we show that the GP approach generally outperforms a more classical generalized linear (autoregressive) model (GLM) that we developed to utilize abundant covariate information. We illustrate variations of our method(s) on the two benchmark locales alongside a full summary of results submitted by other contest competitors.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.00261v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'The importance of thermodynamics for molecular systems, and the importance of molecular systems for thermodynamics', ['Thomas E. Ouldridge'], u'2017-02-01', u'Improved understanding of molecular systems has only emphasised the sophistication of networks within the cell. Simultaneously, the advance of nucleic acid nanotechnology, a platform within which reactions can be exquisitely controlled, has made the development of artificial architectures and devices possible. Vital to this progress has been a solid foundation in the thermodynamics of molecular systems. In this pedagogical review and perspective, I will discuss how thermodynamics determines both the overall potential of molecular networks, and the minute details of design. I will then argue that, in turn, the need to understand molecular systems is helping to drive the development of theories of thermodynamics at the microscopic scale.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.00360v1', ['Molecular Networks'], []]
[u'Mean Field Analysis of Algorithms for Scale-free Networks in Molecular Biology', ['S Konini', 'EJ Janse van Rensburg'], u'2017-02-01', u"The sampling of scale-free networks in Molecular Biology is usually achieved by growing networks from a seed using recursive algorithms with elementary moves which include the addition and deletion of nodes and bonds. These algorithms include the Barabasi-Albert algorithm. Later algorithms, such as the Duplication-Divergence algorithm, the Sol\\'e algorithm and the iSite algorithm, were inspired by biological processes underlying the evolution of protein networks, and the networks they produce differ essentially from networks grown by the Barabasi-Albert algorithm. In this paper the mean field analysis of these algorithms is reconsidered, and extended to variant and modified implementations of the algorithms. The degree sequences of scale-free networks decay according to a powerlaw distribution, namely $P(k) \\sim k^{-\\gamma}$, where $\\gamma$ is a scaling exponent. We derive mean field expressions for $\\gamma$, and test these by numerical simulations. Generally, good agreement is obtained. We also found that some algorithms do not produce scale-free networks (for example some variant Barabasi-Albert and Sol\\'e networks).", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.00239v1', ['Molecular Networks'], []]
[u'Epigenome-wide association study and integrative analysis with the transcriptome based on GWAS summary statistics', ['Hon-Cheong So'], u'2017-02-01', u'The past decade has seen a rapid growth in omics technologies. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have uncovered susceptibility variants for a variety of complex traits. However, the functional significance of most discovered variants are still not fully understood. On the other hand, there is increasing interest in exploring the role of epigenetic variations such as DNA methylation in disease pathogenesis. In this work, we present a general framework for epigenome-wide association study and integrative analysis with the transcriptome based on GWAS summary statistics and data from methylation and expression quantitative trait loci (QTL) studies. The framework is based on Mendelian randomization, which is much less vulnerable to confounding and reverse causation compared to conventional studies. The framework was applied to five complex diseases. We first identified loci that are differentially methylated due to genetic variations, and then developed several approaches for joint testing with the GWAS-imputed transcriptome. We discovered a number of novel candidate genes that are not implicated in the original GWAS studies. We also observed strong evidence (lowest p = 2.01e-184) for differential expression among the top genes mapped to methylation loci. The framework proposed here opens a new way of analyzing GWAS summary data and will be useful for gaining deeper insight into disease mechanisms.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.00329v1', ['Genomics'], []]
