[u'Topography of the nuclei and distribution of Acetylcholinesterase activity in the septum of the telencephalon in man', ['Jacek Bialowas'], u'2017-05-01', u'Distribution of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity in the septum of the telencephalon in man was studied in 15 human brains using the acetylthiocholine method. Highest activity of AChE was found in the nucleus of the diagonal band and nucleus accumbens, and lowest in the Lateral nucleus. Comparison of histochemical results with cellular structure and wi.th the course of fibers showed absence in man of some of the nuclei described in animals such as the anterior medial nucleus, triangular nucleus, and marked reduction of the septo-hippocampal nucleus and fimbriate nucleus. Areas of the septum showing AChE activity were divided into an anterior and posterior system. The applicability to man of some neurophysiologic findings in animals is discussed.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.00550v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Emotion Specification from Musical Stimuli: An EEG Study with AFA and DFA', ['Sourya Sengupta', 'Sayan Biswas', 'Sayan Nag', 'Shankha Sanyal', 'Archi Banerjee', 'Ranjan Sengupta', 'Dipak Ghosh'], u'2017-04-29', u'The present study reports interesting findings in regard to emotional arousal based activities while listening to two Hindustani classical ragas of contrast emotion. EEG data was taken on 5 naive listeners while they listened to two ragas Bahar and Mia ki Malhar which are conventionally known to portray contrast emotions. The EEG data were analyzed with the help of two robust non linear tools viz. Adaptive Fractal Analysis (AFA) and Detrended Fluctuation Analysis (DFA). A comparative study of the Hurst Exponents obtained from the two methods have been shown which shows that DFA provides more rigorous results compared to AFA when it comes to the scaling analysis of biosignal data. The results and implications have been discussed in detail.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.00228v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'The Social Benefits of Balancing Creativity and Imitation: Evidence from an Agent-based Model', ['Liane Gabora', 'Simon Tseng'], u'2017-04-29', u'Although creativity is encouraged in the abstract it is often discouraged in educational and workplace settings. Using an agent-based model of cultural evolution, we investigated the idea that tempering the novelty-generating effects of creativity with the novelty-preserving effects of imitation is beneficial for society. In Experiment One we systematically introduced individual differences in creativity, and observed a trade-off between the ratio of creators to imitators, and how creative the creators were. Excess creativity was detrimental because creators invested in unproven ideas at the expense of propagating proven ones. Experiment Two tested the hypothesis that society as a whole benefits if individuals adjust how creative they are in accordance with their creative success. When effective creators created more, and ineffective creators created less (social regulation), the agents segregated into creators and imitators, and the mean fitness of outputs was temporarily higher. We hypothesized that the temporary nature of the effect was due to a ceiling on output fitness. In Experiment Three we made the space of possible outputs open-ended by giving agents the capacity to chain simple outputs into arbitrarily complex ones such that fitter outputs were always possible. With the capacity for chained outputs, the effect of social regulation could indeed be maintained indefinitely. The results are discussed in light of empirical data.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.00107v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Consciousness is not a physically provable property', ['Cathy M Reason'], u'2017-04-28', u'We present a logical proof that computing machines, and by extension physical systems, can never be certain if they possess conscious awareness. This implies that human consciousness is associated with a violation of energy conservation. We examine the significance that a particular interpretation of quantum mechanics, known as single mind Q (Barrett 1999), might have for the detection of such a violation. Finally we apply single mind Q to the problem of free will as it arises in some celebrated experiments by the neurophysiologist Benjamin Libet.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.00096v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Derivation of a novel efficient supervised learning algorithm from cortical-subcortical loops', ['Ashok Chandrashekar', 'Richard Granger'], u'2017-04-28', u'Although brain circuits presumably carry out useful perceptual algorithms, few instances of derived biological methods have been found to compete favorably against algorithms that have been engineered for specific applications. We forward a novel analysis of function of cortico-striatal loops, which constitute more than 80% of the human brain, thus likely underlying a broad range of cognitive functions. We describe a family of operations performed by the derived method, including a nonstandard method for supervised classification, which may underlie some forms of cortically-dependent associative learning. The novel supervised classifier is compared against widely-used algorithms for classification, including support vector machines (SVM) and k-nearest neighbor methods, achieving corresponding classification rates --- at a fraction of the time and space costs. This represents an instance of a biologically-derived algorithm comparing favorably against widely used machine learning methods on well-studied tasks.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.00063v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Random evolutionary dynamics driven by fitness and house-of-cards mutations. Sampling formulae', ['Thierry Huillet'], u'2017-04-30', u'We first revisit the multi-allelic mutation-fitness balance problem, especially when mutations obey a house of cards condition, where the discrete-time deterministic evolutionary dynamics of the allelic frequencies derives from a Shahshahani potential. We then consider multi-allelic Wright-Fisher stochastic models whose deviation to neutrality is from the Shahsha-hani mutation/selection potential. We next focus on the weak selection, weak mutation cases and, making use of a Gamma calculus, we compute the normalizing partition functions of the invariant probability densities appearing in their Wright-Fisher diffusive approximations. Using these results, Generalized Ewens sampling formulae (ESF) from the equilibrium distributions are derived. We start treating the ESF in the mixed mutation/selection potential case and then we restrict ourselves to the ESF in the simpler house-of-cards mutations only situation. We also address some issues concerning sampling problems from infinitely-many alleles weak limits.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.00330v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], [u'LPTM']]
[u'Fixation probability of a nonmutator in a large population of asexual mutators', ['Kavita Jain', 'Ananthu James'], u'2017-04-29', u'In an adapted population of mutators in which most mutations are deleterious, a nonmutator that lowers the mutation rate is under indirect selection and can sweep to fixation. Using a multitype branching process, we calculate the fixation probability of a rare nonmutator in a large population of asexual mutators. We show that when beneficial mutations are absent, the fixation probability is a nonmonotonic function of the mutation rate of the mutator: it first increases sublinearly and then decreases exponentially. We also find that beneficial mutations can enhance the fixation probability of a nonmutator. Our analysis is relevant to an understanding of recent experiments in which a reduction in the mutation rates has been observed.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.00153v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Computing the projected reachable set of switched affine systems: an application to systems biology', ['Francesca Parise', 'Maria Elena Valcher', 'John Lygeros'], u'2017-05-01', u'A fundamental question in systems biology is what combinations of mean and variance of the species present in a stochastic biochemical reaction network are attainable by perturbing the system with an external signal. To address this question, we show that the moments evolution in any generic network can be either approximated or, under suitable assumptions, computed exactly as the solution of a switched affine system. Motivated by this application, we propose a new method to approximate the reachable set of switched affine systems. A remarkable feature of our approach is that it allows one to easily compute projections of the reachable set for pairs of moments of interest, without requiring the computation of the full reachable set, which can be prohibitive for large networks. As a second contribution, we also show how to select the external signal in order to maximize the probability of reaching a target set. To illustrate the method we study a renown model of controlled gene expression and we derive estimates of the reachable set, for the protein mean and variance, that are more accurate than those available in the literature and consistent with experimental data.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.00400v1', ['Quantitative Methods', 'Molecular Networks'], []]
[u'Detecting abnormality in heart dynamics from multifractal analysis of ECG signals', ['Snehal M. Shekatkar', 'Yamini Kotriwar', 'K. P. Harikrishnan', 'G. Ambika'], u'2017-04-29', u'The characterization of heart dynamics with a view to distinguish abnormal from normal behavior is an interesting topic in clinical sciences. Here we present an analysis of the Electro-cardiogram (ECG) signals obtained under controlled conditions from several healthy and unhealthy subjects using the framework of multifractal analysis. Our analysis differs from the conventional nonlinear analysis in that the information contained in the amplitude variations of the signal is being extracted and quantified. The results thus obtained reveal that the attractor underlying the dynamics of the heart has multifractal structure and the resultant multifractal spectra can clearly separate healthy subjects from unhealthy ones. We use supervised machine learning approach to build a model that predicts the group label of a new subject with very high accuracy on the basis of the multifractal parameters. By comparing the range of scaling indices in the multifractal spectra with that of beat replicated data from the same ECG, we show how each ECG can be checked for abnormality for variations within itself.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.00121v1', ['Quantitative Methods', 'Tissues and Organs'], []]
[u'Reactions, Diffusion and Volume Exclusion in a Heterogeneous System of Interacting Particles', ['Daniel Wilson', 'Helen Byrne', 'Maria Bruna'], u'2017-04-28', u'Recent experimental observations have shown that excluded-volume effects play an important role in reaction diffusion processes at the cellular and subcellular level. These findings have, in turn, increased interest in research focused on incorporating such effects into stochastic models that account explicitly for every single cell in the system. The high computational costs incurred by these models have motivated the development of macroscopic continuum models, in the form of partial differential equations, that can capture the microscopic effects. It has been shown that the volume exclusion leads to a nonlinear diffusion coefficient in the macroscopic model. For many biological processes it is important to consider reactions between heterogeneous cell populations that arise from direct physical interactions. In this paper we use the method of matched asymptotic expansions to derive macroscopic models that account for volume exclusion and reactions between subpopulations at the microscopic level. We show that for reactions due to contact interactions the appropriate reaction term in the macroscopic model is of lower order in the asymptotic expansion than the nonlinear diffusion term. However, we find that the next reaction term in the expansion is needed to ensure good agreement with simulations of the microscopic model.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.00004v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'A model for one-dimensional morphoelasticity and its application to fibroblast-populated collagen lattices', ['Shakti N. Menon', 'Cameron L. Hall', 'Scott W. McCue', 'D. L. Sean McElwain'], u'2017-04-30', u"The mechanical behaviour of solid biological tissues has long been described using models based on classical continuum mechanics. However, the classical continuum theories of elasticity and viscoelasticity cannot easily capture the continual remodelling and associated structural changes of biological tissues. Furthermore, models drawn from plasticity theory are difficult to apply and interpret in this context, where there is no equivalent of a yield stress or flow rule. In this work, we describe a novel one-dimensional mathematical model of tissue remodelling based on the multiplicative decomposition of the deformation gradient. We express the mechanical effects of remodelling as an evolution equation for the 'effective strain', a measure of the difference between the current state and a hypothetical mechanically-relaxed state of the tissue. This morphoelastic model combines the simplicity and interpretability of classical viscoelastic models with the versatility of plasticity theory. A novel feature of our model is that while most models describe growth as a continuous quantity, here we begin with discrete cells and develop a continuum representation of lattice remodelling based on an appropriate limit of the behaviour of discrete cells. To demonstrate the utility of our approach, we use this framework to capture qualitative aspects of the continual remodelling observed in fibroblast-populated collagen lattices, in particular its contraction and its subsequent sudden re-expansion when remodelling is interrupted.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.00299v1', ['Tissues and Organs'], []]
[u'Multiple steady states and the form of response functions to antigen in a model for the initiation of T cell activation', ['Alan D. Rendall', 'Eduardo D. Sontag'], u'2017-04-29', u'The aim of this paper is to study the qualitative behaviour predicted by a mathematical model for the initial stage of T cell activation. The state variables in the model are the concentrations of phosphorylation states of the T cell receptor complex and the phosphatase SHP-1 in the cell. It is shown that these quantities cannot approach zero and that the model possesses more than one positive steady state for certain values of the parameters. It can also exhibit damped oscillations. It is proved that the chemical concentration which represents the degree of activation of the cell, that of the maximally phosphorylated form of the T cell receptor complex, is in general a non-monotone function of the activating signal. In particular there are cases where there is a value of the dissociation constant of the ligand from the receptor which produces an optimal activation of the T cell. In this way the results of certain simulations in the literature have been confirmed rigorously and some important features which had not previously been seen have been discovered.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.00149v1', ['Molecular Networks'], []]
[u'Generative Modeling with Conditional Autoencoders: Building an Integrated Cell', ['Gregory R. Johnson', 'Rory M. Donovan-Maiye', 'Mary M. Maleckar'], u'2017-04-28', u'We present a conditional generative model to learn variation in cell and nuclear morphology and the location of subcellular structures from microscopy images. Our model generalizes to a wide range of subcellular localization and allows for a probabilistic interpretation of cell and nuclear morphology and structure localization from fluorescence images. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach by producing photo-realistic cell images using our generative model. The conditional nature of the model provides the ability to predict the localization of unobserved structures given cell and nuclear morphology.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.00092v1', ['Subcellular Processes', 'Cell Behavior'], []]
[u'On the ability to reconstruct ancestral genomes from Mycobacterium genus', ['Christophe Guyeux', 'Bashar Al-Nuaimi', 'Bassam AlKindy', 'Jean-Francois Couchot', 'Michel Salomon'], u'2017-04-30', u'Technical signs of progress during the last decades has led to a situation in which the accumulation of genome sequence data is increasingly fast and cheap. The huge amount of molecular data available nowadays can help addressing new and essential questions in Evolution. However, reconstructing evolution of DNA sequences requires models, algorithms, statistical and computational methods of ever increasing complexity. Since most dramatic genomic changes are caused by genome rearrangements (gene duplications, gain/loss events), it becomes crucial to understand their mechanisms and reconstruct ancestors of the given genomes. This problem is known to be NP-complete even in the "simplest" case of three genomes. Heuristic algorithms are usually executed to provide approximations of the exact solution. We state that, even if the ancestral reconstruction problem is NP-hard in theory, its exact resolution is feasible in various situations, encompassing organelles and some bacteria. Such accurate reconstruction, which identifies too some highly homoplasic mutations whose ancestral status is undecidable, will be initiated in this work-in-progress, to reconstruct ancestral genomes of two Mycobacterium pathogenetic bacterias. By mixing automatic reconstruction of obvious situations with human interventions on signaled problematic cases, we will indicate that it should be possible to achieve a concrete, complete, and really accurate reconstruction of lineages of the Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex. Thus, it is possible to investigate how these genomes have evolved from their last common ancestors.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.00276v1', ['Genomics'], []]
