[u'The Resiliency of Memorability: A Predictor of Memory Separate from Attention and Priming', ['Wilma A. Bainbridge'], u'2017-03-22', u'When we encounter a new person or place, we may easily encode it into our memories, or we may quickly forget it. Recent work finds that this likelihood of encoding a given entity - memorability - is highly consistent across viewers and intrinsic to an image; people tend to remember and forget the same images. However, several forces influence our memories beyond the memorability of the stimulus itself - for example, how attention-grabbing the stimulus is, how much attentional resources we dedicate to the task, or how primed we are for that stimulus. How does memorability interact with these various phenomena, and could any of them explain the effects of memorability found in prior work? This study uses five psychophysical experiments to explore the link between memorability and three attention-related phenomena: 1) bottom-up attention (through testing spatial cueing and visual search), 2) top-down attention (through testing cognitive control and depth of encoding), and 3) priming. These experiments find that memorability remains resilient to all of these phenomena - none are able to explain memorability effects or overcome the strong effects memorability has on determining memory performance. Thus, memorability is truly an independent, intrinsic attribute of an image that works in conjunction with these phenomena to determine if an event will ultimately be remembered.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.07738v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'The cross-frequency mediation mechanism of intracortical information transactions', ['RD Pascual-Marqui', 'P Faber', 'S Ikeda', 'R Ishii', 'T Kinoshita', 'Y Kitaura', 'K Kochi', 'P Milz', 'K Nishida', 'M Yoshimura'], u'2017-03-22', u'In a seminal paper by von Stein and Sarnthein (200), it was hypothesized that "bottom-up" information processing of "content" elicits local, high frequency (beta-gamma) oscillations, whereas "top-down" processing is "contextual", characterized by large scale integration spanning distant cortical regions, and implemented by slower frequency (theta-alpha) oscillations. This corresponds to a mechanism of cortical information transactions, where synchronization of beta-gamma oscillations between distant cortical regions is mediated by widespread theta-alpha oscillations. It is the aim of this paper to express this hypothesis quantitatively, in terms of a model that will allow testing this type of information transaction mechanism. The basic methodology used here corresponds to statistical mediation analysis, originally developed by (Baron and Kenny 1986). We generalize the classical mediator model to the case of multivariate complex-valued data, consisting of the discrete Fourier transform coefficients of signals of electric neuronal activity, at different frequencies, and at different cortical locations. The "mediation effect" is quantified here in a novel way, as the product of "dual frequency RV-coupling coefficients", that were introduced in (Pascual-Marqui et al 2016, http://arxiv.org/abs/1603.05343). Relevant statistical procedures are presented for testing the cross-frequency mediation mechanism in general, and in particular for testing the von Stein & Sarnthein hypothesis.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.07654v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Working memory capacity and gender', ['Regina Ershova', 'Eugen Tarnow'], u'2017-03-21', u'The working memory capacity (WMC) of 400 Russian college students was measured using the Tarnow Unchunkable Test [2] which tests WMC alone without requiring explicit working memory operations. We found small-sized WMC differences by gender and the possibility that the male/female ratio increases for low and high WMC creating a u-shaped curve. The gender proportion in each academic fields was a strong determinant of the average WMC (r2=0.2 for the 3-item test and r2=0.5 for the 4-item test), associating "academic female" (law, history) with holistic thinking and "academic male" with reductive thinking (physics, computer science, math). Within academic fields there were no WMC gender differences. The male/female ratios for the different fields are strongly amplified from the WMC male/female ratios, by factors of 12-14.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.07639v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Insular microbiogeography', ['James H. Kaufman', 'Christopher A. Elkins', 'Matthew Davis', 'Allison M Weis', 'Bihua C. Huang', 'Mark K Mammel', 'Isha R. Patel', 'Kristen L. Beck', 'Stefan Edlund', 'David Chambliss', 'Simone Bianco', 'Mark Kunitomi', 'Bart C. Weimer'], u'2017-03-21', u'The diversity revealed by large scale genomics in microbiology is calling into question long held beliefs about genome stability, evolutionary rate, even the definition of a species. MacArthur and Wilson\'s theory of insular biogeography provides an explanation for the diversity of macroscopic animal and plant species as a consequence of the associated hierarchical web of species interdependence. We report a large scale study of microbial diversity that reveals that the cumulative number of genes discovered increases with the number of genomes studied as a simple power law. This result is demonstrated for three different genera comparing over 15,000 isolates. We show that this power law is formally related to the MacArthur-Wilson exponent, suggesting the emerging diversity of microbial genotypes arises because the scale independent behavior first reported by MacArthur and Wilson extends down to the scale of microbes and their genes. Assessing the depth of available whole genome sequences implies a dynamically changing core genome, suggesting that traditional taxonomic classifications should be replaced with a quasispecies model that captures the diversity and dynamic exchange of genes. We report Species population "clouds" in a defined microbiome, with scale invariance extending down to the level of single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs).', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.07454v1', ['Populations and Evolution', 'Genomics'], []]
[u'Scale-invariant biomarker discovery in urine and plasma metabolite fingerprints', ['Helena U. Zacharias', 'Thorsten Rehberg', 'Sebastian Mehrl', 'Daniel Richtmann', 'Tilo Wettig', 'Peter J. Oefner', 'Rainer Spang', 'Wolfram Gronwald', 'Michael Altenbuchinger'], u'2017-03-22', u'Motivation: Metabolomics data is typically scaled to a common reference like a constant volume of body fluid, a constant creatinine level, or a constant area under the spectrum. Such normalization of the data, however, may affect the selection of biomarkers and the biological interpretation of results in unforeseen ways. Results: First, we study how the outcome of hypothesis tests for differential metabolite concentration is affected by the choice of scale. Furthermore, we observe this interdependence also for different classification approaches. Second, to overcome this problem and establish a scale-invariant biomarker discovery algorithm, we extend linear zero-sum regression to the logistic regression framework and show in two applications to ${}^1$H NMR-based metabolomics data how this approach overcomes the scaling problem. Availability: Logistic zero-sum regression is available as an R package as well as a high-performance computing implementation that can be downloaded at https://github.com/rehbergT/zeroSum.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.07724v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Big-data approach in abundance estimation of non-identifiable animals with camera-traps at the spots of attraction', ['Evgeny Ivanko'], u'2017-03-21', u'Camera-traps is a relatively new but already popular instrument in the estimation of abundance of non-identifiable animals. Although camera-traps are convenient in application, there remain both theoretical complications such as spatial autocorrelation or false negative problem and practical difficulties, for example, laborious random sampling. In the article we propose an alternative way to bypass the mentioned problems. In the proposed approach, the raw video information collected from the camera-traps situated at the spots of natural attraction is turned into the frequency of visits, and the latter is transformed into the desired abundance estimate. The key for such a transformation is the application of the correction coefficients, computed for each particular observation environment using the Bayesian approach and the massive database (DB) of observations under various conditions. The main result of the article is a new method of census based on video-data from camera-traps at the spots of natural attraction and information from a special community-driven database. The proposed method is based on automated video-capturing at a moderate number of easy to reach spots, so in the long term many laborious census works may be conducted easier, cheaper and cause less disturbance for the wild life. Information post-processing is strictly formalized, which leaves little chance for subjective alterations. However, the method heavily relies on the volume and quality of the DB, which in its turn heavily relies on the efforts of the community. There is realistic hope that the community of zoologists and environment specialists could create and maintain a DB similar to the proposed one. Such a rich DB of visits might benefit not only censuses, but also many behavioral studies.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.07401v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Local convergence of Levenberg-Marquardt methods under H\xf6lder metric subregularity', ['Masoud Ahookhosh', 'Francisco J. Aragon', 'Ronan M. T. Fleming', 'Phan T. Vuong'], u'2017-03-21', u'We describe and analyse Levenberg-Marquardt methods for solving systems of nonlinear equations. More specifically, we first propose an adaptive formula for the Levenberg-Marquardt parameter and analyse the local convergence of the method under H\\"{o}lder metric subregularity. We then introduce a bounded version of the Levenberg-Marquardt parameter and analyse the local convergence of the modified method under the \\L ojasiewicz gradient inequality. We finally report encouraging numerical results confirming the theoretical findings for the problem of computing moiety conserved steady states in biochemical reaction networks. This problem can be cast as finding a solution of a system of nonlinear equations, where the associated mapping satisfies the H\\"{o}lder metric subregularity assumption.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.07461v1', ['Molecular Networks'], []]
[u'Dynamics of dynein at microtubule plus-ends and the cortex during the division of the C. elegans zygote', ['Ruddi Rodriguez Garcia', 'Laurent Chesneau', 'Sylvain Pastezeur', 'Julien Roul', 'Marc Tramier', 'Jacques Pecreaux'], u'2017-03-22', u'During asymmetric cell divisions, cortical dyneins generate forces essential to position the spindle after polarity cues, prescribing daughter cells fate. In nematode zygote, cortical dynein pulls on microtubules transiently, raising the question of its targeting and dynamics. Tracking and fluorescence correlation spectroscopy revealed that in the cytoplasm, dynein spots displayed directed motions toward the cortex, localized at microtubule plus-ends through EBP-2/EB but are not actively transported. Surprisingly CLIP-1/CLIP170 is not involved. ebp-2(0) slightly reduced spindle rocking, thus most cortical forces remain suggesting a redundant mechanism. At the cortex, to relate dynein residency and forces generating, we tracked dynein and found two dynamically distinct populations. One of them would correspond to force generating events. Our experiments also indicated that an asymmetric (polarized) dynein-microbutule on-rate, causes the force imbalance positioning the spindle. GPR-1/2 increases the overall dynein density but also residency time (pulling processivity), although this latter was not polarized.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.07610v1', ['Subcellular Processes'], []]
[u'Mathematical Modelling and Analysis of the Brassinosteroid and Gibberellin Signalling Pathways and their Interactions', ['Henry R. Allen', 'Mariya Ptashnyk'], u'2017-03-22', u'The plant hormones brassinosteroid (BR) and gibberellin (GA) have important roles in a wide range of processes involved in plant growth and development. The BR signalling pathway acts by altering the phosphorylation state of its transcription factors BZR1/2, whereas the GA signalling pathway acts by reducing the stability of its transcription factor DELLA. Both signalling pathways include a negative feedback, with high levels of BR causing increased repression of key BR-biosynthetic genes mediated by BZR1/2, and high levels of GA causing decreased stability of DELLA, where DELLA is responsible for activating key genes involved in GA biosynthesis. We derive and analyse new mathematical models for the BR signalling pathway and the crosstalk between the BR and GA signalling pathways. To analyse the effects of spatial heterogeneity of the signalling processes, along with ODE models we derive PDE-ODE systems modelling the temporal and spatial dynamics of molecules involved in the signalling pathways. The values of the parameters in the model for the BR signalling pathway are determined using experimental data on the gene expression of BR biosynthetic enzymes. We show that solutions of our models can exhibit oscillatory behaviour depending on the parameters associated with BZR1/2 phosphorylation. Comparison between ODE and PDE-ODE models demonstrates that the spatial heterogeneity in the signalling processes has significant effect only in the case when we have periodic solutions for at least one of the models. Our results for the crosstalk model suggest that the interaction between transcription factors exerts more influence on the dynamics of the signalling pathways, and that perturbations in the GA signalling pathway have larger effects on the dynamics of components of the BR signalling pathway, apart from in the case when the model for the BR signalling pathway has periodic solutions.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.07584v1', ['Subcellular Processes'], []]
