[u'The Same Analysis Approach: Practical protection against the pitfalls of novel neuroimaging analysis methods', ['Kai Gorgen', 'Martin N. Hebart', 'Carsten Allefeld', 'John-Dylan Haynes'], u'2017-03-20', u'Standard neuroimaging data analysis based on traditional principles of experimental design, modelling, and statistical inference is increasingly complemented by novel analysis methods, driven e.g. by machine learning methods. While these novel approaches provide new insights into neuroimaging data, they often have unexpected properties, generating a growing literature on possible pitfalls. We propose to meet this challenge by adopting a habit of systematic testing of experimental design, analysis procedures, and statistical inference. Specifically, we suggest to apply the analysis method used for experimental data also to aspects of the experimental design, simulated confounds, simulated null data, and control data. We stress the importance of keeping the analysis method the same in main and test analyses, because only this way possible confounds and unexpected properties can be reliably detected and avoided. We describe and discuss this Same Analysis Approach in detail, and demonstrate it in two worked examples using multivariate decoding. With these examples, we reveal two previously unknown sources of error: A mismatch between counterbalancing and cross-validation which leads to systematic below-chance accuracies, and linear decoding of a nonlinear effect, a difference in variance.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.06670v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], [u'Charite, FU, HU, BIH, BCCN, BCAN, Neurocure, Berlin', u'University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf']]
[u'Gestalt Phenomenon in Music? A Neurocognitive Physics Study with EEG', ['Shankha Sanyal', 'Archi Banerjee', 'Souparno Roy', 'Sourya Sengupta', 'Sayan Biswas', 'Sayan Nag', 'Ranjan Sengupta', 'Dipak Ghosh'], u'2017-03-19', u'The term gestalt has been widely used in the field of psychology which defined the perception of human mind to group any object not in part but as a unified whole. Music in general is polytonic i.e. a combination of a number of pure tones (frequencies) mixed together in a manner that sounds harmonius. The study of human brain response due to different frequency groups of acoustic signal can give us an excellent insight regarding the neural and functional architecture of brain functions. In this work we have tried to analyze the effect of different frequency bands of music on the various frequency rhythms of human brain obtained from EEG data of 5 participants. Four (4) widely popular Rabindrasangeet clips were subjected to Wavelet Transform method for extracting five resonant frequency bands from the original music signal. These resonant frequency bands were presented to the subjects as auditory stimulus and EEG signals recorded simultaneously in 19 different locations of the brain. The recorded EEG signals were noise cleaned and subjected to Multifractal Detrended Fluctuation Analysis (MFDFA) technique on the alpha, theta and gamma frequency range. Thus, we obtained the complexity values (in the form of multifractal spectral width) in alpha, theta and gamma EEG rhythms corresponding to different frequency bands of music. We obtain frequency specific arousal based response in different lobes of brain as well as in specific EEG bands corresponding to musical stimuli. This revelation can be of immense importance when it comes to the field of cognitive music therapy.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.06491v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'A wake-sleep algorithm for recurrent, spiking neural networks', ['Johannes Thiele', 'Peter Diehl', 'Matthew Cook'], u'2017-03-18', u'We investigate a recently proposed model for cortical computation which performs relational inference. It consists of several interconnected, structurally equivalent populations of leaky integrate-and-fire (LIF) neurons, which are trained in a self-organized fashion with spike-timing dependent plasticity (STDP). Despite its robust learning dynamics, the model is susceptible to a problem typical for recurrent networks which use a correlation based (Hebbian) learning rule: if trained with high learning rates, the recurrent connections can cause strong feedback loops in the network dynamics, which lead to the emergence of attractor states. This causes a strong reduction in the number of representable patterns and a decay in the inference ability of the network. As a solution, we introduce a conceptually very simple "wake-sleep" algorithm: during the wake phase, training is executed normally, while during the sleep phase, the network "dreams" samples from its generative model, which are induced by random input. This process allows us to activate the attractor states in the network, which can then be unlearned effectively by an anti-Hebbian mechanism. The algorithm allows us to increase learning rates up to a factor of ten while avoiding clustering, which allows the network to learn several times faster. Also for low learning rates, where clustering is not an issue, it improves convergence speed and reduces the final inference error.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.06290v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'SIM-CE: An Advanced Simulink Platform for Studying the Brain of Caenorhabditis elegans', ['Ramin M. Hasani', 'Victoria Beneder', 'Magdalena Fuchs', 'David Lung', 'Radu Grosu'], u'2017-03-18', u"We introduce SIM-CE, an advanced, user-friendly modeling and simulation environment in Simulink for performing multi-scale behavioral analysis of the nervous system of Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans). SIM-CE contains an implementation of the mathematical models of C. elegans's neurons and synapses, in Simulink, which can be easily extended and particularized by the user. The Simulink model is able to capture both complex dynamics of ion channels and additional biophysical detail such as intracellular calcium concentration. We demonstrate the performance of SIM-CE by carrying out neuronal, synaptic and neural-circuit-level behavioral simulations. Such environment enables the user to capture unknown properties of the neural circuits, test hypotheses and determine the origin of many behavioral plasticities exhibited by the worm.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.06270v1', ['Neurons and Cognition', 'Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Non-Associative Learning Representation in the Nervous System of the Nematode Caenorhabditis elegans', ['Ramin M. Hasani', 'Magdalena Fuchs', 'Victoria Beneder', 'Radu Grosu'], u'2017-03-18', u'Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans) illustrated remarkable behavioral plasticities including complex non-associative and associative learning representations. Understanding the principles of such mechanisms presumably leads to constructive inspirations for the design of efficient learning algorithms. In the present study, we postulate a novel approach on modeling single neurons and synapses to study the mechanisms underlying learning in the C. elegans nervous system. In this regard, we construct a precise mathematical model of sensory neurons where we include multi-scale details from genes, ion channels and ion pumps, together with a dynamic model of synapses comprised of neurotransmitters and receptors kinetics. We recapitulate mechanosensory habituation mechanism, a non-associative learning process, in which elements of the neural network tune their parameters as a result of repeated input stimuli. Accordingly, we quantitatively demonstrate the roots of such plasticity in the neuronal and synaptic-level representations. Our findings can potentially give rise to the development of new bio-inspired learning algorithms.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.06264v1', ['Neurons and Cognition', 'Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'High prices for rare species can drive large populations extinct: the anthropogenic Allee effect revisited', ['Matthew H Holden', 'Eve McDonald-Madden'], u'2017-03-20', u'Consumer demand for plant and animal products threatens many populations with extinction. The anthropogenic Allee effect (AAE) proposes that such extinctions can be caused by prices for wildlife products increasing with species rarity. This price-rarity relationship creates financial incentives to extract the last remaining individuals of a population, despite higher search and harvest costs. The AAE has become a standard approach for conceptualizing the threat of economic markets on endangered species. Despite its potential importance for conservation, AAE theory is based on a simple graphical model with limited analysis of possible population trajectories. By specifying a general class of functions for price-rarity relationships, we provide the first theoretical analysis of AAE models, and show that the classic theory can understate the risk of species extinction. AAE theory proposes that only populations below a critical Allee threshold will go extinct due to increasing price-rarity relationships. Our analysis shows that this threshold can be much higher than the original theory suggests, depending on initial harvest effort. More alarmingly, even species with population sizes above this Allee threshold, for which AAE predicts persistence, can be destined to extinction. Introducing even a minimum price for harvested individuals, close to zero, can cause large populations to cross the classic anthropogenic Allee threshold on a trajectory towards extinction. These results suggest that traditional AAE theory may give a false sense of security when managing large harvested populations.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.06736v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Modeling and optimal control of HIV/AIDS prevention through PrEP', ['Cristiana J. Silva', 'Delfim F. M. Torres'], u'2017-03-19', u'Pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) consists in the use of an antiretroviral medication to prevent the acquisition of HIV infection by uninfected individuals and has recently demonstrated to be highly efficacious for HIV prevention. We propose a new epidemiological model for HIV/AIDS transmission including PrEP. Existence, uniqueness and global stability of the disease free and endemic equilibriums are proved. The model with no PrEP is calibrated with the cumulative cases of infection by HIV and AIDS reported in Cape Verde from 1987 to 2014, showing that it predicts well such reality. An optimal control problem with a mixed state control constraint is then proposed and analyzed, where the control function represents the PrEP strategy and the mixed constraint models the fact that, due to PrEP costs, epidemic context and program coverage, the number of individuals under PrEP is limited at each instant of time. The objective is to determine the PrEP strategy that satisfies the mixed state control constraint and minimizes the number of individuals with pre-AIDS HIV-infection as well as the costs associated with PrEP. The optimal control problem is studied analytically. Through numerical simulations, we demonstrate that PrEP reduces HIV transmission significantly.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.06446v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Copula Index for Detecting Dependence and Monotonicity between Stochastic Signals', ['Kiran Karra', 'Lamine Mili'], u'2017-03-20', u'This paper introduces a nonparametric copula-based approach for detecting the strength and monotonicity of linear and nonlinear statistical dependence between bivariate continuous, discrete or hybrid random variables and stochastic signals, termed CIM. We show that CIM satisfies the data processing inequality and is consequently a self-equitable metric. Simulation results using synthetic datasets reveal that the CIM compares favorably to other state-of-the-art statistical dependency metrics, including the Maximal Information Coefficient (MIC), Randomized Dependency Coefficient (RDC), distance Correlation (dCor), Copula correlation (Ccor), and Copula Statistic (CoS) in both statistical power and sample size requirements. Simulations using real world data highlight the importance of understanding the monotonicity of the dependence structure.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.06686v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Stochastic fluctuations can reveal the auto-regulatory characteristics of gene networks at the single-molecule level', ['Chen Jia', 'Peng Xie', 'Min Chen', 'Michael Q. Zhang'], u'2017-03-19', u'Understanding the relationship between spontaneous stochastic fluctuations and the topology of the underlying gene regulatory network is fundamental for the study of gene expression, especially at the molecular level. Here by solving the analytical steady-state distribution of the protein copy number in a general kinetic model of gene expression, we reveal a quantitative relation between stochastic fluctuations and feedback regulation at the single-molecule level, which provides novel insights into how and to what extent a feedback loop can enhance or suppress molecular fluctuations. Based on such relation, we also develop an effective method to extract the topological information of gene regulatory networks from single-cell gene expression data. The theory is demonstrated by numerical simulations and validated quantitatively by single-cell data analysis of a synthetic gene circuit integrated in human kidney cells.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.06532v1', ['Quantitative Methods', 'Molecular Networks'], []]
[u'Changing measurements or changing movements? Sampling scale and movement model identifiability across multiple generations of biologging technology', ['Leah R. Johnson', 'Philipp H. Boersch-Supan', 'Richard A. Phillips', 'Sadie J. Ryan'], u'2017-03-17', u'1. Animal movement patterns contribute to our understanding of variation in breeding success and survival of individuals, and the implications for population dynamics. 2. Over time, sensor technology for measuring movement patterns has improved. Although older technologies may be rendered obsolete, the existing data are still valuable, especially if new and old data can be compared to test whether a behaviour has changed over time. 3. We used simulated data to assess the ability to quantify and correctly identify patterns of seabird flight lengths under observational regimes used in successive generations of tracking technology. 4. Care must be taken when comparing data collected at differing time-scales, even when using inference procedures that incorporate the observational process, as model selection and parameter estimation may be biased. In practice, comparisons may only be valid when degrading all data to match the lowest resolution in a set. 5. Changes in tracking technology that lead to aggregation of measurements at different temporal scales make comparisons challenging. We therefore urge ecologists to use synthetic data to assess whether accurate parameter estimation is possible for models comparing disparate data sets before conducting analyses such as responses to environmental changes or the assessment of management actions.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.06201v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'A Graph-Based Approach to Analyze Flux-Balanced Pathways in Metabolic Networks', ['Mona Arabzadeh', 'Morteza Saheb Zamani', 'Mehdi Sedighi', 'Sayed-Amir Marashi'], u'2017-03-19', u'An Elementary Flux Mode (EFM) is a pathway with minimum set of reactions that are functional in steady-state constrained space. Due to the high computational complexity of calculating EFMs, different approaches have been proposed to find these flux-balanced pathways. In this paper, an approach to find a subset of EFMs is proposed based on a graph data model. The given metabolic network is mapped to the graph model and decisions for reaction inclusion can be made based on metabolites and their associated reactions. This notion makes the approach more convenient to categorize the output pathways. Implications of the proposed method on metabolic networks are discussed.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.06496v1', ['Molecular Networks'], []]
