[u'Criticality, stability, competition, and consolidation of new representations in brain networks', ['Quinton M Skilling', 'Daniel Maruyama', 'Nicolette Ognjanovski', 'Sara J Aton', 'Michal Zochowski'], u'2017-02-24', u'The brain forms and stores distributed representations from sparse external input that compete for neuronal resources with already stored memory traces. It is unclear what dynamical properties of neural systems allow formation and subsequent consolidation of new, distributed memory representations under these conditions. Here we use analytical, computational, and experimental approaches to show that a dynamical regime near a phase-transition in neuronal network activity (i.e. criticality) may play an important role in this process. Our results reveal that near-critical dynamics are necessary to stabilize and store new sparsely driven representations when they compete with native network states.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.07649v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Control of the Correlation of Spontaneous Neuron Activity in Biological and Noise-activated CMOS Artificial Neural Microcircuits', ['Ramin M. Hasani', 'Giorgio Ferrari', 'Hideaki Yamamoto', 'Sho Kono', 'Koji Ishihara', 'Soya Fujimori', 'Takashi Tanii', 'Enrico Prati'], u'2017-02-24', u'There are several indications that brain is organized not on a basis of individual unreliable neurons, but on a micro-circuital scale providing Lego blocks employed to create complex architectures. At such an intermediate scale, the firing activity in the microcircuits is governed by collective effects emerging by the background noise soliciting spontaneous firing, the degree of mutual connections between the neurons, and the topology of the connections. We compare spontaneous firing activity of small populations of neurons adhering to an engineered scaffold with simulations of biologically plausible CMOS artificial neuron populations whose spontaneous activity is ignited by tailored background noise. We provide a full set of flexible and low-power consuming silicon blocks including neurons, excitatory and inhibitory synapses, and both white and pink noise generators for spontaneous firing activation. We achieve a comparable degree of correlation of the firing activity of the biological neurons by controlling the kind and the number of connection among the silicon neurons. The correlation between groups of neurons, organized as a ring of four distinct populations connected by the equivalent of interneurons, is triggered more effectively by adding multiple synapses to the connections than increasing the number of independent point-to-point connections. The comparison between the biological and the artificial systems suggests that a considerable number of synapses is active also in biological populations adhering to engineered scaffolds.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.07426v1', ['Neurons and Cognition', 'Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Reconfiguring motor circuits for a joint manual and BCI task', ['Benjamin Lansdell', 'Ivana Milovanovic', 'Cooper Mellema', 'Eberhard E Fetz', 'Adrienne L Fairhall', 'Chet T Moritz'], u'2017-02-23', u"Designing brain-computer interfaces (BCIs) that can be used in conjunction with ongoing motor behavior requires an understanding of how neural activity co-opted for brain-control interacts with existing neural circuits. BCIs may be used to regain lost motor function after stroke or traumatic brain injury, for instance, provided that a neural control signal can be extracted from a single spared hemisphere. Such an approach, however, requires that neural activity controlling the unaffected limb is dissociated from activity controlling the BCI. In this study we investigate how primary motor cortex accomplishes simultaneous BCI control and motor control in a task that explicitly requires both activities to be driven from the same brain region (i.e. a 'dual control task'). Single unit activity was recorded from intracortical multi-electrode arrays while a non-human primate performed this dual-control BCI task. We observe broad changes in tuning of both units used to drive the BCI directly ('control units') and units that do not directly control the BCI ('non-control units'). Using transfer entropy, a measure of effective connectivity, we observe control-unit-specific dissociation from other units. Through an analysis of variance we find that the intrinsic variability of the control units has a significant effect on task proficiency. In particular, at least one control unit must have a high intrinsic variability to allow cursor control and target acquisition. Surprisingly, the degree of co-tuning or connectivity with other units did not affect dual-control task proficiency. Thus, motor cortical activity is flexible enough to perform novel BCI tasks that require active decoupling of natural associations to wrist motion.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.07368v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Control of Gene Regulatory Networks with Noisy Measurements and Uncertain Inputs', ['Mahdi Imani', 'Ulisses Braga-Neto'], u'2017-02-24', u'This paper is concerned with the problem of stochastic control of gene regulatory networks (GRNs) observed indirectly through noisy measurements and with uncertainty in the intervention inputs. The partial observability of the gene states and uncertainty in the intervention process are accounted for by modeling GRNs using the partially-observed Boolean dynamical system (POBDS) signal model with noisy gene expression measurements. Obtaining the optimal infinite-horizon control strategy for this problem is not attainable in general, and we apply reinforcement learning and Gaussian process techniques to find a near-optimal solution. The POBDS is first transformed to a directly-observed Markov Decision Process in a continuous belief space, and the Gaussian process is used for modeling the cost function over the belief and intervention spaces. Reinforcement learning then is used to learn the cost function from the available gene expression data. In addition, we employ sparsification, which enables the control of large partially-observed GRNs. The performance of the resulting algorithm is studied through a comprehensive set of numerical experiments using synthetic gene expression data generated from a melanoma gene regulatory network.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.07652v1', ['Molecular Networks'], []]
[u'An Allosteric Theory of Transcription Factor Induction', ['Manuel Razo-Mejia', 'Stephanie L. Barnes', 'Nathan M. Belliveau', 'Griffin Chure', 'Tal Einav', 'Rob Phillips'], u'2017-02-24', u"Allosteric molecules serve as regulators of cellular activity across all domains of life. We present a general theory of allosteric transcriptional regulation that permits quantitative predictions for how physiological responses are tuned to environmental stimuli. To test the model's predictive power, we apply it to the specific case of the ubiquitous simple repression motif in bacteria. We measure the fold-change in gene expression at different inducer concentrations in a collection of strains that span a range of repressor copy numbers and operator binding strengths. After inferring the inducer dissociation constants using data from one of these strains, we show the broad reach of the model by predicting the induction profiles of all other strains. Finally, we derive an expression for the free energy of allosteric transcription factors which enables us to collapse the data from all of our experiments onto a single master curve, capturing the diverse phenomenology of the induction profiles.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.07460v1', ['Subcellular Processes'], []]
[u'Surfing on protein waves: proteophoresis as a mechanism for bacterial genome partitioning', ['Jean-Charles Walter', 'Jerome Dorignac', 'Vladimir Lorman', 'Jerome Rech', 'Jean-Yves Bouet', 'Marcelo Nollmann', 'John Palmeri', 'Andrea Parmeggiani', 'Frederic Geniet'], u'2017-02-23', u'Efficient bacterial chromosome segregation typically requires the coordinated action of a three-components, ATP-fueled machinery called the partition complex. We present a phenomenological model accounting for the dynamic activity of this system. The model is obtained by coupling simple linear reaction-diffusion equations with a proteophoresis, or "volumetric" chemophoresis, force field. This minimal description, in the sense of Occam\'s Razor principle, captures most known experimental observations: dynamic oscillations of complex components, complex separation and subsequent symmetrical positioning. The predictions of our model are in phenomenological agreement with and provide substantial insights into recent experiments. From a non-linear physics view point, this system explores the active separation of matter at micrometric scales with a dynamical instability between static positioning and travelling wave regimes.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.07372v1', ['Subcellular Processes'], []]
