[u'Entropy facilitated active transport', ['J. M. Rubi', 'A. Lervik', 'D. Bedeaux', 'S. Kjelstrup'], u'2017-01-11', u'We show how active transport of ions can be interpreted as an entropy facilitated process. In this interpretation, the pore geometry through which substrates are transported can give rise to a driving force. This gives a direct link between the geometry and the changes in Gibbs energy required. Quantifying the size of this effect for several proteins we find that the entropic contribution from the pore geometry is significant and we discuss how the effect can be used to interpret variations in the affinity at the binding site.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.02943v1', ['Biomolecules'], []]
[u'Reply to Slotnick (2017), "Resting-state fMRI data reflects default network activity rather than null data: A defense of commonly employed methods to correct for multiple comparisons"', ['Thomas E. Nichols', 'Anders Eklund', 'Hans Knutsson'], u'2017-01-11', u"A recent Editorial by Slotnick (2015) reconsiders the findings of our paper on the accuracy of false positive rate control with cluster inference in fMRI (Eklund et al, 2016). In this commentary we respond to a number of misrepresentations of our work and discuss a potential problems with Slotnick's own method.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.02942v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Modeling Retinal Ganglion Cell Population Activity with Restricted Boltzmann Machines', ['Matteo Zanotto', 'Riccardo Volpi', 'Alessandro Maccione', 'Luca Berdondini', 'Diego Sona', 'Vittorio Murino'], u'2017-01-11', u'The retina is a complex nervous system which encodes visual stimuli before higher order processing occurs in the visual cortex. In this study we evaluated whether information about the stimuli received by the retina can be retrieved from the firing rate distribution of Retinal Ganglion Cells (RGCs), exploiting High-Density 64x64 MEA technology. To this end, we modeled the RGC population activity using mean-covariance Restricted Boltzmann Machines, latent variable models capable of learning the joint distribution of a set of continuous observed random variables and a set of binary unobserved random units. The idea was to figure out if binary latent states encode the regularities associated to different visual stimuli, as modes in the joint distribution. We measured the goodness of mcRBM encoding by calculating the Mutual Information between the latent states and the stimuli shown to the retina. Results show that binary states can encode the regularities associated to different stimuli, using both gratings and natural scenes as stimuli. We also discovered that hidden variables encode interesting properties of retinal activity, interpreted as population receptive fields. We further investigated the ability of the model to learn different modes in population activity by comparing results associated to a retina in normal conditions and after pharmacologically blocking GABA receptors (GABAC at first, and then also GABAA and GABAB). As expected, Mutual Information tends to decrease if we pharmacologically block receptors. We finally stress that the computational method described in this work could potentially be applied to any kind of neural data obtained through MEA technology, though different techniques should be applied to interpret the results.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.02898v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Darwinian Genetic Drift', ['Alexey A. Shadrin', 'Dmitri V. Parkhomchuk'], u'2017-01-11', u'Genetic drift is stochastic fluctuations of alleles frequencies in a population due to sampling effects. We consider a model of drift in an equilibrium population, with high mutation rates: few functional mutations per generation. Such mutation rates are common in multicellular organisms including humans, however they are not explicitly considered in most population genetics models. Under these assumptions the drift shows properties distinct from the classical drift models, which ignore realistic mutation rates: i) All (non-lethal) variants of a site have a characteristic average frequencies, which are independent of population size, however the magnitude of fluctuations around these frequencies depends on population size. ii) There is no "mutational meltdown" due to "low efficiency of selection" for small population size. Population average fitness does not depend on population size. iii) Drift (and molecular clock) can be represented as wandering by compensatory mutations, postulate of neutral mutations is not necessary for explaining the high rate of mutation accumulation. Our results, which adjust the meaning of the neutral theory from the individual neutrality of the majority of mutations, to the collective neutrality of compensatory mutations, are applicable to investigations in phylogeny and coalescent and for GWAS design and analysis.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.02988v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Nonequilibrium Statistical Physics in Ecology: Vegetation Patterns, Animal Mobility and Temporal Fluctuations', ['Ricardo Martinez-Garcia'], u'2017-01-11', u'This thesis focuses on the applications of mathematical tools and concepts brought from nonequilibrium statistical physics to the modeling of ecological problems. The first part provides a short introduction where the theoretical concepts and mathematical tools that are going to be used in subsequent chapters are presented. Firstly, the different levels of description usually employed in the models are explained. Secondly, the mathematical relationships among them are presented. Finally, the notation and terminology that will be used later on are explained. The second part is devoted to studying vegetation pattern formation in regions where precipitations are not frequent and resources for plant growth are scarce. This part comprises two chapters. The third part of the thesis develops a series of mathematical models describing the collective movement and behavior of some animal species. Its primary objective is to investigate the effect that communication among foragers has on searching times and the formation of groups. It consists of two chapters. The fourth part covers the effect of stochastic temporal disorder, mimicking climate and environmental variability, on systems formed by many interacting particles. These models may serve as an example of ecosystems. The thesis ends with a summary and devising future research lines.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.02908v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Large Fluctuations in Anti-Coordination Games on Scale-Free Graphs', ['Daniel Sabsovich', 'Mauro Mobilia', 'Michael Assaf'], u'2017-01-11', u'We study the influence of the complex topology of scale-free graphs on the dynamics of anti-coordination games (snowdrift games). These reference models are characterized by the coexistence (evolutionary stable mixed strategy) of two competing species, say "cooperators" and "defectors", and, in finite systems, by metastability and by large-fluctuation-driven fixation. Here, we analyze how the complex scale-free topology affects these properties. We use extensive computer simulations and an effective diffusion approximation (in the weak selection limit) to determine under which circumstances, depending on the individual-based update rules, the topology drastically affects the long-time behavior of anti-coordination games. In particular, we compute the variance of the number of cooperators in the metastable state and the mean fixation time when the dynamics is implemented according to the voter model (death-first/birth-second process) and the link dynamics (birth/death or death/birth at random). For the voter update rule on scale-free graphs, we show that the statistics of observables depend on the network\'s degree distribution, while with the link dynamics we recover the same behavior as on complete graphs.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.02904v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Promise and pitfalls of g-ratio estimation with MRI', ['Jennifer S. W. Campbell', 'Ilana R. Leppert', 'Sridar Narayanan', 'Tanguy Duval', 'Julien Cohen-Adad', 'G. Bruce Pike', 'Nikola Stikov'], u'2017-01-10', u'The fiber g-ratio is the ratio of the inner to the outer diameter of the myelin sheath of a myelinated axon. It has a limited dynamic range in healthy white matter, as it is optimized for speed of signal conduction, cellular energetics, and spatial constraints. In vivo imaging of the g-ratio in health and disease would greatly increase our knowledge of the nervous system and our ability to diagnose, monitor, and treat disease. MRI based g-ratio imaging was first conceived in 2011, and expanded to be feasible in full brain with preliminary results in 2013. This manuscript reviews the growing g-ratio imaging literature and speculates on future applications. It details the methodology for imaging the g-ratio with MRI, and describes the known pitfalls and challenges in doing so.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.02760v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Effective Potential for Cellular Size Control', ['David A. Kessler', 'Stanislav Burov'], u'2017-01-06', u'For various species of biological cells, experimental observations indicate the existence of universal distributions of the cellular size, scaling relations between the cell-size moments and simple rules for the cell-size control. We address a class of models for the control of cell division, and present the steady state distributions. By introducing concepts such as effective force and potential, we are able to address the appearance of scaling collapse of different distributions and the connection between various moments of the cell-size. Our approach allows us to derive strict bounds which a potential cell-size control scenario must meet in order to yield a steady state distribution. The so-called "adder" model for cell-size control exhibits the weakest control that still enables the existence of stable size distribution, a fact that might explain the relative "popularity" of this scenario for different cells.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.01725v1', ['Cell Behavior'], []]
[u'Bayesian estimation of Differential Transcript Usage from RNA-seq data', ['Panagiotis Papastamoulis', 'Magnus Rattray'], u'2017-01-11', u"Next generation sequencing allows the identification of genes consisting of differentially expressed transcripts, a term which usually refers to changes in the overall expression level. A specific type of differential expression is differential transcript usage (DTU) and targets changes in the relative within gene expression of a transcript. The contribution of this paper is to: (a) extend the use of cjBitSeq to the DTU context, a previously introduced Bayesian model which is originally designed for identifying changes in overall expression levels and (b) propose a Bayesian version of DRIMSeq, a frequentist model for inferring DTU. cjBitSeq is a read based model and performs fully Bayesian inference by MCMC sampling on the space of latent state of each transcript per gene. BayesDRIMSeq is a count based model and estimates the Bayes Factor of a DTU model against a null model using Laplace's approximation. The proposed models are benchmarked against the existing ones using a recent independent simulation study. Our results suggest that the Bayesian methods exhibit similar performance with DRIMSeq in terms of precision/recall but offer better calibration of False Discovery Rate.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.03095v1', ['Genomics'], []]
