[u'Scaling Properties of Human Brain Functional Networks', ['Riccardo Zucca', 'Xerxes D. Arsiwalla', 'Hoang Le', 'Mikail Rubinov', 'Paul Verschure'], u'2017-02-02', u'We investigate scaling properties of human brain functional networks in the resting-state. Analyzing network degree distributions, we statistically test whether their tails scale as power-law or not. Initial studies, based on least-squares fitting, were shown to be inadequate for precise estimation of power-law distributions. Subsequently, methods based on maximum-likelihood estimators have been proposed and applied to address this question. Nevertheless, no clear consensus has emerged, mainly because results have shown substantial variability depending on the data-set used or its resolution. In this study, we work with high-resolution data (10K nodes) from the Human Connectome Project and take into account network weights. We test for the power-law, exponential, log-normal and generalized Pareto distributions. Our results show that the statistics generally do not support a power-law, but instead these degree distributions tend towards the thin-tail limit of the generalized Pareto model. This may have implications for the number of hubs in human brain functional networks.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.00768v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Heterogeneous gain distributions in neural networks I:The stationary case', ['Alejandro Jimenez Rodriguez', 'Juan Carlos Cordero Ceballos', 'Nestor E. Sanchez'], u'2017-02-02', u'We study heterogeneous distribution of gains in neural fields using techniques of quantum mechanics by exploiting a relationship of our model and the time-independent Schr\\"{o}dinger equation. We show that specific relationships between the connectivity kernel and the gain of the population can explain the behavior of the neural field in simulations. In particular, we show this relationships for the gating of activity between two regions (step potential), the propagation of activity throughout another region (barrier) and, most importantly, the existence of bumps in gain-contained regions (gain well). Our results constitute specific predictions that can be tested in vivo or in vitro.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.00687v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Learning Criticality in an Embodied Boltzmann Machine', ['Miguel Aguilera', 'Manuel G. Bedia'], u'2017-02-02', u'Many biological and cognitive systems do not operate deep into one or other regime of activity. Instead, they exploit critical surfaces poised at transitions in their parameter space. The pervasiveness of criticality in natural systems suggests that there may be general principles inducing this behaviour. However, there is a lack of conceptual models explaining how embodied agents propel themselves towards these critical points. In this paper, we present a learning model driving an embodied Boltzmann Machine towards critical behaviour by maximizing the heat capacity of the network. We test and corroborate the model implementing an embodied agent in the mountain car benchmark, controlled by a Boltzmann Machine that adjust its weights according to the model. We find that the neural controller reaches a point of criticality, which coincides with a transition point of the behaviour of the agent between two regimes of behaviour, maximizing the synergistic information between its sensors and the hidden and motor neurons. Finally, we discuss the potential of our learning model to study the contribution of criticality to the behaviour of embodied living systems in scenarios not necessarily constrained by biological restrictions of the examples of criticality we find in nature.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.00614v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Information-theoretic interpretation of tuning curves for multiple motion directions', ['Wentao Huang', 'Xin Huang', 'Kechen Zhang'], u'2017-02-01', u'We have developed an efficient information-maximization method for computing the optimal shapes of tuning curves of sensory neurons by optimizing the parameters of the underlying feedforward network model. When applied to the problem of population coding of visual motion with multiple directions, our method yields several types of tuning curves with both symmetric and asymmetric shapes that resemble what have been found in the visual cortex. Our result suggests that the diversity or heterogeneity of tuning curve shapes as observed in neurophysiological experiment might actually constitute an optimal population representation of visual motions with multiple components.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.00493v1', ['Neurons and Cognition', 'Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Cable equation for general geometry', ['Erick J. Lopez-Sanchez', 'Juan M. Romero'], u'2017-01-24', u'The cable equation describes the voltage in a straight cylindrical cable, this model has been employed to model electrical potential in dendrites and axons. However, sometimes this equation might give incorrect predictions for some realistic geometries, in particular when the radius of the cable changes significantly. Cables with a non constant radius are important for some phenomena, for example discrete swellings along the axons appear in neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer, Parkinson, HIV-associated dementia and Multiple Sclerosis. In this paper, using the Frenet-Serret frame, we propose a generalized cable equation for a general cable geometry. This generalized equation depends on geometric quantities such as the curvature and torsion of the cable. We show that when the cable has a constant circular cross-section, the first fundamental form of the cable can be simplified and the generalized cable equation depends on neither the curvature nor the torsion of the cable. Additionally, we find an exact solution for an ideal cable which has a particular variable circular cross-section and zero curvature. For this case we show that when the cross-section of the cable increases the voltage decreases. Inspired in this ideal case, we rewrite the generalized cable equation as a diffusion equation with a source term generated by the cable geometry. This source term depends on the cable cross-section area and its derivates. In addition, we study different cables with swelling and provide their numerical solutions. The numerical solutions show that when the cross-section of the cable has abrupt changes, its voltage is smaller than the voltage in the cylindrical cable. Furthermore, these numerical solutions show that the voltage can be affected by geometrical inhomogeneities on the cable.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.00718v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Quantification of tumour evolution and heterogeneity via Bayesian epiallele detection', ['James E. Barrett', 'Andrew Feber', 'Javier Herrero', 'Miljana Tanic', 'Gareth Wilson', 'Charles Swanton', 'TRACERx Consortium', 'Stephan Beck'], u'2017-02-02', u"Motivation: Epigenetic heterogeneity within a tumour can play an important role in tumour evolution and the emergence of resistance to treatment. It is increasingly recognised that the study of DNA methylation (DNAm) patterns along the genome -- so-called `epialleles' -- offers greater insight into epigenetic dynamics than conventional analyses which examine DNAm marks individually. Results: We have developed a Bayesian model to infer which epialleles are present in multiple regions of the same tumour. We apply our method to reduced representation bisulfite sequencing (RRBS) data from multiple regions of one lung cancer tumour and a matched normal sample. The model borrows information from all tumour regions to leverage greater statistical power. The total number of epialleles, the epiallele DNAm patterns, and a noise hyperparameter are all automatically inferred from the data. Uncertainty as to which epiallele an observed sequencing read originated from is explicitly incorporated by marginalising over the appropriate posterior densities. By tracing the distribution of epialleles throughout the tumour we can infer the phylogenetic history of the tumour, identify epialleles that differ between normal and cancer tissue, and define a measure of global epigenetic disorder.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.00633v1', ['Quantitative Methods', 'Genomics'], []]
[u'A Mean-Field Approach to Evolving Spatial Networks, with an Application to Osteocyte Network Formation', ['Jake P. Taylor-King', 'David Basanta', 'S. Jonathan Chapman', 'Mason A. Porter'], u'2017-01-31', u'We consider evolving networks in which each node can have various associated properties (a state) in addition to those that arise from network structure. For example, each node can have a spatial location and a velocity, or some more abstract internal property that describes something like social trait. Edges between nodes are created and destroyed, and new nodes enter the system. We introduce a "local state degree distribution" (LSDD) as the degree distribution at a particular point in state space. We then make a mean-field assumption and thereby derive an integro-partial differential equation that is satisfied by the LSDD. We perform numerical experiments and find good agreement between solutions of the integro-differential equation and the LSDD from stochastic simulations of the full model. To illustrate our theory, we apply it to a simple continuum model for osteocyte network formation within bones, with a view to understanding changes that may take place during cancer. Our results suggest that increased rates of differentiation lead to higher densities of osteocytes but with a lower number of dendrites. To help provide biological context, we also include an introduction to osteocytes, the formation of osteocyte networks, and the role of osteocytes in bona metastasis.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.00759v1', ['Quantitative Methods', 'Tissues and Organs'], []]
[u'The center problem for the Lotka reactions with generalized mass-action kinetics', ['Balazs Boros', 'Josef Hofbauer', 'Georg Regensburger', 'Stefan Muller'], u'2017-02-02', u'Chemical reaction networks with generalized mass-action kinetics lead to power-law dynamical systems. As a simple example, we consider the Lotka reactions and the resulting planar ODE. We characterize the parameters (positive coefficients and real exponents) for which the unique positive equilibrium is a center.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.00707v1', ['Molecular Networks'], []]
[u'Transport Effects on Multiple-Component Reactions in Optical Biosensors', ['Ryan M. Evans', 'David A. Edwards'], u'2017-01-26', u'Many biochemical reactions involve a stream of chemical reactants (ligand molecules) flowing over a surface to which other reactants (receptors) are confined. Scientists measure rate constants associated with these reactions in an optical biosensor: an instrument in which ligand molecules are convected through a flow cell, over a surface on which receptors are immobilized. In applications such as DNA damage repair multiple simultaneous reactions occur on the surface of the biosensor. We quantify transport effects on such multiple-component reactions, which result in a nonlinear set of integrodifferential equations for the reacting species concentrations. In physically relevant parameter regimes, these integrodifferential equations further reduce to a nonlinear set of ordinary differential equations, which may be used to estimate rate constants from biosensor data. We verify our results with a semi-implicit finite difference algorithm.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.00489v1', ['Molecular Networks'], []]
[u'Gene length as a regulator for ribosome recruitment and protein synthesis: theoretical insights', ['Lucas D. Fernandes', 'Alessandro de Moura', 'Luca Ciandrini'], u'2017-02-02', u"Protein synthesis rates are determined, at the translational level, by properties of the transcript's sequence. The efficiency of an mRNA can be tuned by varying the ribosome binding sites controlling the recruitment of the ribosomes, or the codon usage establishing the speed of protein elongation. In this work we promote transcript length as a further key determinant of translation efficiency. Based on a physical model that considers the kinetics of ribosomes advancing on the mRNA and diffusing in its surrounding, we explain how the transcript length might play a central role in establishing ribosome recruitment and the overall translation rate of an mRNA. We also demonstrate how this process might be involved in shaping the experimental ribosome density-gene length dependence. Finally, we argue that cells could exploit this mechanism to adjust and balance the usage of its ribosomal resources.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.00632v1', ['Subcellular Processes'], []]
[u'Imaging cytochrome C oxidase and FoF1-ATP synthase in mitochondrial cristae of living human cells by FLIM and superresolution microscopy', ['Franziska Foertsch', 'Mykhailo Ilchenko', 'Thomas Heitkamp', 'Silke Nossmann', 'Birgit Hoffmann', 'Ilka Starke', 'Ralf Mrowka', 'Christoph Biskup', 'Michael Borsch'], u'2017-02-02', u'Cytochrome C oxidase and FoF1-ATP synthase constitute complex IV and V, respectively, of the five membrane-bound enzymes in mitochondria comprising the respiratory chain. These enzymes are located in the inner mitochondrial membrane (IMM), which exhibits large invaginations called cristae. According to recent cryo-tomography, FoF1-ATP synthases are located predominantly at the rim of the cristae, while cytochrome C oxidases are likely distributed in planar membrane areas of the cristae. Previous FLIM measurements (K. Busch and coworkers) of complex II and III unravelled differences in the local environment of the membrane enzymes in the cristae. Here, we tagged complex IV and V with mNeonGreen and investigated their mitochondrial nano-environment by FLIM and superresolution microscopy in living human cells. Different lifetimes and anisotropy values were found and will be discussed.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.00512v1', ['Subcellular Processes'], []]
