[u'Confining Brownian motion of single nanoparticles in an ABELtrap', ['Maria Dienerowitz', 'Thomas Heitkamp', 'Thomas Gottschall', 'Jens Limpert', 'Michael Borsch'], u'2017-01-12', u"Trapping nanoscopic objects to observe their dynamic behaviour for extended periods of time is an ongoing quest. Particularly, sub-100nm transparent objects are hard to catch and most techniques rely on immobilisation or transient diffusion through a confocal laser focus. We present an Anti-Brownian ELectrokinetic trap (pioneered by A. E. Cohen and W. E. Moerner) to hold nanoparticles and individual FoF1-ATP synthase proteins in solution. We are interested in the conformational dynamics of this membrane-bound rotary motor protein that we monitor using single-molecule FRET. The ABELtrap is an active feedback system cancelling the nano-object's Brownian motion by applying an electric field. We show how the induced electrokinetic forces confine the motion of nanoparticles and proteoliposomes to the centre of the trap.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.03422v1', ['Biomolecules', 'Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Label-free optical detection of single enzyme-reactant reactions and associated conformational changes', ['Eugene Kim', 'Martin D. Baaske', 'Isabel Schuldes', 'Peter S. Wilsch', 'Frank Vollmer'], u'2017-01-03', u'Monitoring the kinetics and conformational dynamics of single enzymes is crucial in order to better understand their biological functions as these motions and structural dynamics are usually unsynchronized among the molecules. Detecting the enzyme-reactant interactions and associated conformational changes of the enzyme on a single molecule basis, however, remain as a challenge with established optical techniques due to the commonly required labeling of the reactants or the enzyme itself. The labeling process is usually non-trivial and the labels themselves might skew the physical properties of the enzyme. Here we demonstrate an optical, label-free method capable of observing enzymatic interactions and the associated conformational changes on the single molecule level. We monitor polymerase/DNA interactions via the strong near-field enhancement provided by plasmonic nanorods resonantly coupled to whispering gallery modes in microcavities. Specifically, we employ two different recognition schemes: one in which the kinetics of polymerase/DNA interactions are probed in the vicinity of DNA-functionalized nanorods, and the other in which these interactions are probed via the magnitude of conformational changes in the polymerase molecules immobilized on nanorods. In both approaches we find that low and high polymerase activities can be clearly discerned via their characteristic signal amplitude and signal length distributions. Furthermore, the thermodynamic study of the monitored interactions suggests the occurrence of DNA polymerization. This work constitutes a proof-of-concept study of enzymatic activities via plasmonically enhanced microcavities and establishes an alternative and label-free method capable of investigating structural changes in single molecules.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.03345v1', ['Biomolecules'], []]
[u'Plasmid segregation and accumulation', ['Johannes Muller', 'Karin Munch', 'Bendix Koopmann', 'Eva Stadler', 'Louisa Roselius', 'Dieter Jahn', 'Richard Munch'], u'2017-01-12', u'The segregation of plasmids in a bacterial population is investigated. Hereby, a dynamical model is formulated in terms of a size-structured population using a hyperbolic partial differential equation incorporating non-local terms (the fragmentation equation). For a large class of parameter functions this PDE can be re-written as an infinite system of ordinary differential equations for the moments of its solution. We investigate the influence of different plasmid production modes, kinetic parameters, and plasmid segregation modes on the equilibrium plasmid distribution. In particular, at small plasmid numbers the distribution is strongly influenced by the production mode, while the kinetic parameters (cell growth rate resp. basic plasmid reproduction rate) influence the distribution mainly at large plasmid numbers. The plasmid transmission characteristics only gradually influence the distribution, but may become of importance for biologically relevant cases. We compare the theoretical findings with experimental results.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.03448v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Networks of planar Hamiltonian systems', ['David S. Tourigny'], u'2017-01-11', u'We introduce diffusively coupled networks where the dynamical system at each vertex is planar Hamiltonian. The problems we address are synchronisation and an analogue of diffusion-driven Turing instability for time-dependent homogeneous states. As a consequence of the underlying Hamiltonian structure there exist unusual behaviours compared with networks of coupled limit cycle oscillators or activator-inhibitor systems.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.03149v1', ['Molecular Networks'], []]
[u'Predicting the Plant Root-Associated Ecological Niche of 21 Pseudomonas Species Using Machine Learning and Metabolic Modeling', ['Jennifer Chien', 'Peter Larsen'], u'2017-01-12', u"Plants rarely occur in isolated systems. Bacteria can inhabit either the endosphere, the region inside the plant root, or the rhizosphere, the soil region just outside the plant root. Our goal is to understand if using genomic data and media dependent metabolic model information is better for training machine learning of predicting bacterial ecological niche than media independent models or pure genome based species trees. We considered three machine learning techniques: support vector machine, non-negative matrix factorization, and artificial neural networks. In all three machine-learning approaches, the media-based metabolic models and flux balance analyses were more effective at predicting bacterial niche than the genome or PRMT models. Support Vector Machine trained on a minimal media base with Mannose, Proline and Valine was most predictive of all models and media types with an f-score of 0.8 for rhizosphere and 0.97 for endosphere. Thus we can conclude that media-based metabolic modeling provides a holistic view of the metabolome, allowing machine learning algorithms to highlight the differences between and categorize endosphere and rhizosphere bacteria. There was no single media type that best highlighted differences between endosphere and rhizosphere bacteria metabolism and therefore no single enzyme, reaction, or compound that defined whether a bacteria's origin was of the endosphere or rhizosphere.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.03220v1', ['Genomics'], []]
