[u'Fourier-based classification of protein secondary structures', ['Jian-Jun Shu', 'Kian-Yan Yong'], u'2017-04-28', u'The correct prediction of protein secondary structures is one of the key issues in predicting the correct protein folded shape, which is used for determining gene function. Existing methods make use of amino acids properties as indices to classify protein secondary structures, but are faced with a significant number of misclassifications. The paper presents a technique for the classification of protein secondary structures based on protein "signal-plotting" and the use of the Fourier technique for digital signal processing. New indices are proposed to classify protein secondary structures by analyzing hydrophobicity profiles. The approach is simple and straightforward. Results show that the more types of protein secondary structures can be classified by means of these newly-proposed indices.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1704.08994v1', ['Biomolecules', 'Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Data science skills for referees: I Biological X-ray crystallography', ['John R Helliwell'], u'2017-04-28', u'Since there is now a growing wish by referees to judge the underpinning data for a submitted article it is timely to provide a summary of the data evaluation checks required to be done by a referee. As these checks will vary from field to field this article focuses on the needs of biological X-ray crystallography articles, which is the predominantly used method leading to depositions in the PDB. The expected referee checks of data underpinning an article are described with examples. These checks necessarily include that a referee checks the PDB validation report for each crystal structure accompanying the article submission; this check whilst necessary is not sufficient for a complete evaluation. A referee would be expected to undertake one cycle of model refinement of the authors biological macromolecule coordinates against the authors processed diffraction data and look at the various validation checks of the model and Fo-Fc electron density maps in e.g. Phenix_refine and in COOT. If the referee deems necessary the diffraction data images should be reprocessed (e.g. to a different diffraction resolution than the authors submission). This can be requested to be done by the authors or if the referee prefers can be undertaken directly by the referee themselves. A referee wishing to do these data checks may wish to receive a certificate that they have command of these data science skills. The organisation of such voluntary certification training can e.g. be via those crystallography associations duly recognised by the IUCr to issue such certificates.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1704.08848v1', ['Biomolecules'], []]
[u'The right tool for the right question --- beyond the encoding versus decoding dichotomy', ['Sebastian Weichwald', 'Moritz Grosse-Wentrup'], u'2017-04-28', u'There are two major questions that neuroimaging studies attempt to answer: First, how are sensory stimuli represented in the brain (which we term the stimulus-based setting)? And, second, how does the brain generate cognition (termed the response-based setting)? There has been a lively debate in the neuroimaging community whether encoding and decoding models can provide insights into these questions. In this commentary, we construct two simple and analytically tractable examples to demonstrate that while an encoding model analysis helps with the former, neither model is appropriate to satisfactorily answer the latter question. Consequently, we argue that if we want to understand how the brain generates cognition, we need to move beyond the encoding versus decoding dichotomy and instead discuss and develop tools that are specifically tailored to our endeavour.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1704.08851v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Parameter Estimation in Computational Biology by Approximate Bayesian Computation coupled with Sensitivity Analysis', ['Xin Liu', 'Mahesan Niranjan'], u'2017-04-28', u'We address the problem of parameter estimation in models of systems biology from noisy observations. The models we consider are characterized by simultaneous deterministic nonlinear differential equations whose parameters are either taken from in vitro experiments, or are hand-tuned during the model development process to reproduces observations from the system. We consider the family of algorithms coming under the Bayesian formulation of Approximate Bayesian Computation (ABC), and show that sensitivity analysis could be deployed to quantify the relative roles of different parameters in the system. Parameters to which a system is relatively less sensitive (known as sloppy parameters) need not be estimated to high precision, while the values of parameters that are more critical (stiff parameters) need to be determined with care. A tradeoff between computational complexity and the accuracy with which the posterior distribution may be probed is an important characteristic of this class of algorithms.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1704.09021v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Dynamic disorder in simple enzymatic reactions induces stochastic amplification of substrate', ['Ankit Gupta', 'Andreas Milias-Argeitis', 'Mustafa Khammash'], u'2017-04-28', u'A growing amount of evidence points to the fact that many enzymes exhibit fluctuations in their catalytic activity, which are associated with conformational changes on a broad range of timescales. The experimental study of this phenomenon, termed dynamic disorder, has become possible due to advances in single-molecule enzymology measurement techniques, through which the catalytic activity of individual enzyme molecules can be tracked in time. The biological role and importance of these fluctuations in a system with a small number of enzymes such as a living cell have only recently started being explored. In this work, we examine a simple stochastic reaction system consisting of an inflowing substrate and an enzyme with a randomly fluctuating catalytic reaction rate that converts the substrate into an outflowing product. To describe analytically the effect of rate fluctuations on the average substrate abundance at steady-state, we derive an explicit formula that connects the relative speed of enzymatic fluctuations with the mean substrate level. We demonstrate that the relative speed of rate fluctuations can have a dramatic effect on the mean substrate, and lead to large positive deviations from predictions based on the assumption of deterministic enzyme activity. Our results also establish an interesting connection between the amplification effect and the mixing properties of the Markov process describing the enzymatic activity fluctuations, which can be used to easily predict the fluctuation speed above which such deviations become negligible. As the techniques of single-molecule enzymology continuously evolve, it may soon be possible to study the stochastic phenomena due to enzymatic activity fluctuations within living cells. Our work can be used to formulate experimentally testable hypotheses regarding the magnitude of these fluctuations, as well as their phenotypic consequences.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1704.08933v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Particle-based and Meshless Methods with Aboria', ['Martin Robinson', 'Maria Bruna'], u'2017-04-28', u"Aboria is a powerful and flexible C++ library for the implementation of particle-based numerical methods. The particles in such methods can represent actual particles (e.g. Molecular Dynamics) or abstract particles used to discretise a continuous function over a domain (e.g. Radial Basis Functions). Aboria provides a particle container, compatible with the Standard Template Library, spatial search data structures, and a Domain Specific Language to specify non-linear operators on the particle set. This paper gives an overview of Aboria's design, an example of use, and a performance benchmark.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1704.08907v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'BeWith: A Between-Within Method to Discover Relationships between Cancer Modules via Integrated Analysis of Mutual Exclusivity, Co-occurrence and Functional Interactions', ['Phuong Dao', 'Yoo-Ah Kim', 'Damian Wojtowicz', 'Sanna Madan', 'Roded Sharan', 'Teresa M. Przytycka'], u'2017-04-28', u'The analysis of the mutational landscape of cancer, including mutual exclusivity and co-occurrence of mutations, has been instrumental in studying the disease. We hypothesized that exploring the interplay between co-occurrence, mutual exclusivity, and functional interactions between genes will further improve our understanding of the disease and help to uncover new relations between cancer driving genes and pathways. To this end, we designed a general framework, BeWith, for identifying modules with different combinations of mutation and interaction patterns. We focused on three different settings of the BeWith schema: (i) BeME-WithFun in which the relations between modules are enriched with mutual exclusivity while genes within each module are functionally related; (ii) BeME-WithCo which combines mutual exclusivity between modules with co-occurrence within modules; and (iii) BeCo-WithMEFun which ensures co-occurrence between modules while the within module relations combine mutual exclusivity and functional interactions. We formulated the BeWith framework using Integer Linear Programming (ILP), enabling us to find optimally scoring sets of modules. Our results demonstrate the utility of BeWith in providing novel information about mutational patterns, driver genes, and pathways. In particular, BeME-WithFun helped identify functionally coherent modules that might be relevant for cancer progression. In addition to finding previously well-known drivers, the identified modules pointed to the importance of the interaction between NCOR and NCOA3 in breast cancer. Additionally, an application of the BeME-WithCo setting revealed that gene groups differ with respect to their vulnerability to different mutagenic processes, and helped us to uncover pairs of genes with potentially synergetic effects, including a potential synergy between mutations in TP53 and metastasis related DCC gene.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1704.08889v1', ['Molecular Networks'], []]
[u'Kinetic discrimination of a polymerase in the presence of obstacles', ['Ilana Bogod', 'Saar Rahav'], u'2017-04-26', u"One of the causes of high fidelity of copying in biological systems is kinetic discrimination. In this mechanism larger dissipation and copying velocity result in improved copying accuracy. We consider a model of a polymerase which simultaneously copies a single stranded RNA and opens a single- to double-stranded junction serving as an obstacle. The presence of the obstacle slows down the motor, resulting in a change of its fidelity, which can be used to gain information about the motor and junction dynamics. We find that the motor's fidelity does not depend on details of the motor-junction interaction, such as whether the interaction is passive or active. Analysis of the copying fidelity can still be used as a tool for investigating the junction kinetics.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1704.08945v1', ['Subcellular Processes'], []]
