[u'Hierarchical invasion of cooperation in complex networks', ['Daniele Vilone', 'Valerio Capraro', 'Jose J. Ramasco'], u'2017-01-13', u"The emergence and survival of cooperation is one of the hardest problems still open in science. Several factors such as the existence of punishment, fluctuations in finite systems, repeated interactions and the formation of prestige may all contribute to explain the counter-intuitive prevalence of cooperation in natural and social systems. The characteristics of the interaction networks have been also signaled as an element favoring the persistence of cooperators. Here we consider the invasion dynamics of cooperative behaviors in complex topologies. The invasion of a heterogeneous network fully occupied by defectors is performed starting from nodes with a given number of connections (degree) $k_0$. The system is then evolved within a Prisoner's Dilemma game and the outcome is analyzed as a function of $k_0$ and the degree $k$ of the nodes adopting cooperation. Carried out using both numerical and analytical approach, our results show that the invasion proceeds following preferentially a hierarchical order in the nodes from those with higher degree to those with lower degree. However, the invasion of cooperation will succeed only when the initial cooperators are numerous enough to form a cluster from which cooperation can spread. This implies that the initial condition must be a suitable equilibrium between high degree and high numerosity, which usually takes place, when possible, at intermediate values of $k_0$. These findings have potential real-world applications, as they suggest that, in order to promote cooperative behavior on complex networks, one should infect with cooperators high but not too high degree nodes.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.03710v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Social Pressure and Environmental Effects on Networks: A Path to Cooperation', ['Maria Pereda', 'Daniele Vilone'], u'2017-01-13', u'In this paper, we study how the pro-social impact due to the vigilance by other individuals is conditioned by both environmental and evolutionary effects. To this aim, we consider a known model where agents play a Prisoner\'s Dilemma Game (PDG) among themselves and the pay-off matrix of an individual changes according to the number of neighbors that are "vigilant", i.e., how many neighbors watch out for her behavior. In particular, the temptation to defect decreases linearly with the number of vigilant neighbors. This model proved to support cooperation in specific conditions, and here we check its robustness with different topologies, microscopical update rules and initial conditions. By means of many numerical simulations and few theoretical considerations, we find in which situations the vigilance by the others is more effective in favoring cooperative behaviors and when its influence is weaker.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.03617v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Collective departures in zebrafish: profiling the initiators', ['Bertrand Collignon', 'Axel Seguret', 'Yohann Chemtob', 'Leo Cazenille', 'Jose Halloy'], u'2017-01-13', u'For animals living in groups, one of the important questions is to understand what are the decision-making mechanisms that lead to choosing a motion direction or leaving an area while preserving group cohesion. Here, we analyse the initiation of collective departure in zebrafish \\textit{Danio rerio}. In particular, we observed groups of 2, 3, 5, 7 and 10 zebrafish swimming in a two resting sites arena and quantify the number of collective departure initiated by each fish. While all fish initiated at least one departure, the probability to be the first one to exit a resting site is not homogeneously distributed with some individuals leading more departures than others. We show that this number of initiation is linearly proportional to the number of attempts performed and that all fish have the same success rate to lead the group out of a resting sites after an attempt. In addition, by measuring the average swimming speed of all fish, we highlight that the intra-group ranking of a fish for its proportion of initiation is correlated to its intra-group ranking in average speed. These results highlight that the initiation of collective departure in zebrafish is a heterogeneously distributed process, even if all individual have the same success rate after attempting a departure.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.03611v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Using efficient parallelization in Graphic Processing Units to parameterize stochastic fire propagation models', ['Monica Denham', 'Karina Laneri', 'Juan Manuel Morales'], u'2017-01-13', u'Fire propagation is a major concern in the world in general and in Argentinian northwestern Patagonia in particular where every year hundreds of hectares are affected by both natural and anthropogenic forest fires. We developed an efficient cellular automata model in Graphic Processing Units (GPUs) to simulate fire propagation. The graphical advantages of GPUs were exploded by overlapping wind direction maps, as well as vegetation, slope and aspect maps, taking into account relevant landscape characteristics for fire propagation. Stochastic propagation was performed with a probability model that depends on aspect, slope, wind direction and vegetation type. Implementing a genetic algorithm search strategy we show, using simulated fires, that we recover the five parameter values that characterize fire propagation. The efficiency of the fire simulation procedure allowed us to also estimate the fire ignition point when it is unknown as well as its associated uncertainty, making this approach suitable for the analysis of fire spread based on maps of burned areas without knowing the point of origin of the fires or how they spread.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.03549v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Targeted nanoconjugate co-delivering siRNA and tyrosine kinase inhibitor to KRAS mutant NSCLC dissociates GAB1-SHP2 post oncogene knockdown', ['R Srikar', 'Dhananjay Suresh', 'Ajit Zambre', 'Kristen Taylor', 'Sarah Chapman', 'Matthew Leevy', 'Anandhi Upendran', 'Raghuraman Kannan'], u'2017-01-12', u'A tri-block nanoparticle (TBN) comprising of an enzymatically cleavable porous gelatin nanocore encapsulated with gefitinib (tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI)) and surface functionalized with cetuximab-siRNA conjugate has been synthesized. Targeted delivery of siRNA to undruggable KRAS mutated non-small cell lung cancer cells would sensitize the cells to TKI drugs and offers an efficient therapy for treating cancer; however, efficient delivery of siRNA and releasing it in cytoplasm remains a major challenge. We have shown TBN can efficiently deliver siRNA to cytoplasm of KRAS mutant H23 Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) cells for oncogene knockdown; subsequently, sensitizing it to TKI. In the absence of TKI, the nanoparticle showed minimal toxicity suggesting that the cells adapt a parallel GAB1 mediated survival pathway. In H23 cells, activated ERK results in phosphorylation of GAB1 on serine and threonine residues to form GAB1-p85 PI3K complex. In the absence of TKI, knocking down the oncogene dephosphorylated ERK, and negated the complex formation. This event led to tyrosine phosphorylation at Tyr627 domain of GAB1 that regulated EGFR signaling by recruiting SHP2. In the presence of TKI, GAB1-SHP2 dissociation occurs, leading to cell death. The outcome of this study provides a promising platform for treating NSCLC patients harboring KRAS mutation.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.03476v1', ['Subcellular Processes'], []]
[u'Predicting the dynamics of bacterial growth inhibition by ribosome-targeting antibiotics', ['Philip Greulich', 'Jakub Dolezal', 'Matthew Scott', 'Martin R. Evans', 'Rosalind J. Allen'], u'2017-01-13', u'Understanding how antibiotics inhibit bacteria can help to reduce antibiotic use and hence avoid antimicrobial resistance - yet few theoretical models exist for bacterial growth inhibition by a clinically relevant antibiotic treatment regimen. In particular, in the clinic, antibiotic treatment is time dependent. Here, we use a recently-developed model to obtain predictions for the dynamical response of a bacterial cell to a time-dependent dose of ribosome-targeting antibiotic. Our results depend strongly on whether the antibiotic shows reversible transport and/or low-affinity ribosome binding ("low-affinity antibiotic") or, in contrast, irreversible transport and/or high affinity ribosome binding ("high-affinity antibiotic"). For low-affinity antibiotics, our model predicts that growth inhibition depends on the duration of the antibiotic pulse, with a transient period of very fast growth following removal of the antibiotic. For high-affinity antibiotics, growth inhibition depends on peak dosage rather than dose duration, and the model predicts a pronounced post-antibiotic effect, due to hysteresis, in which growth can be suppressed for long times after the antibiotic dose has ended. These predictions are experimentally testable and may be of clinical significance.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.03702v1', ['Cell Behavior'], []]
