[u'Dynamical Scaling and Phase Coexistence in Topologically-Constrained DNA Melting', ['Y. A. G. Fosado', 'D. Michieletto', 'D. Marenduzzo'], u'2017-03-24', u'There is a long-standing experimental observation that the melting of topologically constrained DNA, such as circular-closed plasmids, is less abrupt than that of linear molecules. This finding points to an intriguing role of topology in the physics of DNA denaturation, which is however poorly understood. Here, we shed light on this issue by combining large-scale Brownian Dynamics simulations with an analytically solvable phenomenological Landau mean field theory. We find that the competition between melting and supercoiling leads to phase coexistence of denatured and intact phases at the single molecule level. This coexistence occurs in a wide temperature range, thereby accounting for the broadening of the transition. Finally, our simulations show an intriguing topology-dependent scaling law governing the growth of denaturation bubbles in supercoiled plasmids, which can be understood within the proposed mean field theory.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.08367v1', ['Biomolecules'], []]
[u'Interactive Natural Language Acquisition in a Multi-modal Recurrent Neural Architecture', ['Stefan Heinrich', 'Stefan Wermter'], u'2017-03-24', u'The human brain is one of the most complex dynamic systems that enables us to communicate in natural language. We have a good understanding of some principles underlying natural languages and language processing, some knowledge about socio-cultural conditions framing acquisition, and some insights about where activity is occurring in the brain. However, we were not yet able to understand the behavioural and mechanistic characteristics for natural language and how mechanisms in the brain allow to acquire and process language. In an effort to bridge the gap between insights from behavioural psychology and neuroscience, the goal of this paper is to contribute a computational understanding of the appropriate characteristics that favour language acquisition, in a brain-inspired neural architecture. Accordingly, we provide concepts and refinements in cognitive modelling regarding principles and mechanisms in the brain - such as the hierarchical abstraction of context - in a plausible recurrent architecture. On this basis, we propose neurocognitively plausible model for embodied language acquisition from real world interaction of a humanoid robot with its environment. The model is capable of learning language production grounded in both, temporal dynamic somatosensation and vision. In particular, the architecture consists of a continuous time recurrent neural network, where parts have different leakage characteristics and thus operate on multiple timescales for every modality and the association of the higher level nodes of all modalities into cell assemblies. Thus, this model features hierarchical concept abstraction in sensation as well as concept decomposition in production, multi-modal integration, and self-organisation of latent representations.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.08513v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Measuring Light Pollution with Fisheye Lens Imagery from A Moving Boat, A Proof of Concept', ['Andreas Jechow', 'Zoltan Kollath', 'Amit Lerner', 'Andreas Hanel', 'Nadav Shashar', 'Franz Holker', 'Christopher C. M. Kyba'], u'2017-03-22', u'Near all-sky imaging photometry was performed from a boat on the Gulf of Aqaba to measure the night sky brightness in a coastal environment. The boat was not anchored, and therefore drifted and rocked. The camera was mounted on a tripod without any inertia/motion stabilization. A commercial digital single lens reflex (DSLR) camera and fisheye lens were used with ISO setting of 6400, with the exposure time varied between 0.5 s and 5 s. We find that despite movement of the vessel the measurements produce quantitatively comparable results apart from saturation effects. We discuss the potential and limitations of this method for mapping light pollution in marine and freshwater systems. This work represents the proof of concept that all-sky photometry with a commercial DSLR camera is a viable tool to determine light pollution in an ecological context from a moving boat.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.08484v1', ['Other'], []]
[u'Dynamical compensation and structural identifiability: analysis, implications, and reconciliation', ['Alejandro F. Villaverde', 'Julio R. Banga'], u'2017-03-24', u'The concept of dynamical compensation has been recently introduced to describe the ability of a biological system to keep its output dynamics unchanged in the face of varying parameters. Here we show that, according to its original definition, dynamical compensation is equivalent to lack of structural identifiability. This is relevant if model parameters need to be estimated, which is often the case in biological modelling. This realization prompts us to warn that care should we taken when using an unidentifiable model to extract biological insight: the estimated values of structurally unidentifiable parameters are meaningless, and model predictions about unmeasured state variables can be wrong. Taking this into account, we explore alternative definitions of dynamical compensation that do not necessarily imply structural unidentifiability. Accordingly, we show different ways in which a model can be made identifiable while exhibiting dynamical compensation. Our analyses enable the use of the new concept of dynamical compensation in the context of parameter identification, and reconcile it with the desirable property of structural identifiability.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.08415v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'BIISQ: Bayesian nonparametric discovery of Isoforms and Individual Specific Quantification', ['Derek Aguiar', 'Li-Fang Cheng', 'Bianca Dumitrascu', 'Fantine Mordelet', 'Athma A Pai', 'Barbara E Engelhardt'], u'2017-03-24', u'Most human protein-coding genes can be transcribed into multiple possible distinct mRNA isoforms. These alternative splicing patterns encourage molecular diversity and dysregulation of isoform expression plays an important role in disease etiology. However, isoforms are difficult to characterize from short-read RNA-seq data because they share identical subsequences and exist in tissue- and sample-specific frequencies. Here, we develop BIISQ, a Bayesian nonparametric model to discover Isoforms and Individual Specific Quantification from RNA-seq data. BIISQ does not require known isoform reference sequences but instead estimates isoform composition directly with an isoform catalog shared across samples. We develop a stochastic variational inference approach for efficient and robust posterior inference and demonstrate superior precision and recall for short read RNA-seq simulations and simulated short read data from PacBio long read sequencing when compared to state-of-the-art isoform reconstruction methods. BIISQ achieves the most significant gains for longer (in terms of exons) isoforms and isoforms that are lowly expressed (over 500% more transcripts correctly inferred at low coverage in simulations). Finally, we estimate isoforms in the GEUVADIS RNA-seq data, identify genetic variants that regulate transcript ratios, and demonstrate variant enrichment in functional elements related to mRNA splicing regulation.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.08260v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Localization of a microtubule organizing center by kinesin motors', ['Chikashi Arita', 'Jonas Bosche', 'Alexander Luck', 'Ludger Santen'], u'2017-03-23', u'The microtubule (MT) motor Kip3p is very processive kinesin that promotes catastrophes and pausing in particular on cortical contact. These properties explain the role of Kip3p in positioning the mitotic spindle in budding yeast and potentially other processes controlled by kinesin-8 family members. We present a theoretical approach to positioning of a MT network in a cell. In order to explore the underlying mechanism we introduce an idealized system of two MTs connected by a microtubule organizing center (MTOC). The dynamics of Kip3p is modeled by interacting stochastic particles, which allows us to study the effects of motor-induced depolymerization under spatial confinement. We find that localization in the middle of the system is realized in a parameter regime where the motor densities on the MTs are increasing with the distance from the MTOC. Localization at an asymmetric position is also possible by tuning the kinesin input rates at the MT minus ends or attachment rates depending on different compartments of the cell.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.08199v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Sperm-hybrid micromotor for drug delivery in the female reproductive tract', ['Haifeng Xu', 'Mariana Medina Sanchez', 'Veronika Magdanz', 'Lukas Schwarz', 'Franziska Hebenstreit', 'Oliver G. Schmidt'], u'2017-03-24', u'A sperm-driven micromotor is presented as cargo-delivery system for the treatment of gynecological cancers. This particular hybrid micromotor is appealing to treat diseases in the female reproductive tract, the physiological environment that sperm cells are naturally adapted to swim in. Here, the single sperm cell serves as an active drug carrier and as driving force, taking advantage of its swimming capability, while a laser-printed microstructure coated with a nanometric layer of iron is used to guide and release the sperm in the desired area by an external magnet and structurally imposed mechanical actuation, respectively. The printed tubular microstructure features four arms which release the drug-loaded sperm cell in situ when they bend upon pushing against a tumor spheroid, resulting in the drug delivery, which occurs when the sperm squeezes through the cancer cells and fuses with cell membrane. Sperms also offer higher drug encapsulation capability and carrying stability compared to other nano and microcarriers, minimizing toxic effects and unwanted drug accumulation. Moreover, sperms neither express pathogenic proteins nor proliferate to form undesirable colonies, unlike other cells or microorganisms do, making this bio-hybrid system a unique and biocompatible cargo delivery platform for various biomedical applications, especially in gynecological healthcare.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.08510v1', ['Cell Behavior'], []]
[u'Self-organized pattern formation of run-and-tumble chemotactic bacteria: Instability analysis of a kinetic chemotaxis model', ['Benoit Perthame', 'Shugo Yasuda'], u'2017-03-24', u'Collective motion of chemotactic bacteria as E. Coli relies, at the individual level, on a continuous reorientation by runs and tumbles. It has been established that the length of run is decided by a stiff response to temporal sensing of chemical cues along the pathway. We analyze consequences on self-organized pattern formation resulting from modulation of tumbling frequency with stiff response. Thanks to both analytical arguments and numerical simulations, we show that the stationary homogeneous state of population density is destabilized in realistic ranges of parameters. A remarkable property is that the unstable frequencies remain bounded, as it is the case in Turing instability. These theoretical developments are in accordance with several biological observations.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.08386v1', ['Cell Behavior'], [u'MAMBA, LJLL']]
