[u'Learning to Draw Dynamic Agent Goals with Generative Adversarial Networks', ['Shariq Iqbal', 'John Pearson'], u'2017-02-23', u"We address the problem of designing artificial agents capable of reproducing human behavior in a competitive game involving dynamic control. Given data consisting of multiple realizations of inputs generated by pairs of interacting players, we model each agent's actions as governed by a time-varying latent goal state coupled to a control model. These goals, in turn, are described as stochastic processes evolving according to player-specific value functions depending on the current state of the game. We model these value functions using generative adversarial networks (GANs) and show that our GAN-based approach succeeds in producing sample gameplay that captures the rich dynamics of human agents. The latent goal dynamics inferred and generated by our model has applications to fields like neuroscience and animal behavior, where the underlying value functions themselves are of theoretical interest.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.07319v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'The Quest for the FFA led to the Expertise Account of its Specialization', ['Isabel Gauthier'], u'2017-02-22', u'This article is written in response to a Progressions article by Kanwisher in the Journal of Neuroscience, The Quest for the FFA and Where It Led (Kanwisher, 2017). I reflect on the extensive research program dedicated to the study of how and why perceptual expertise explains the many ways that faces are special, a research program which both predates and follows the Kanwisher (1997) landmark article where the fusiform face area (FFA) is named. The expertise accounts suggests that the FFA is an area recruited by expertise individuating objects that are perceptually similar because they share a configuration of parts. While Kanwisher (2017) discussed the expertise account only very briefly and only to dismiss it, there is strong and replicable evidence that responses in the FFA are highly sensitive to experience with non-face objects. I point out that Kanwisher was well positioned to present these findings in their historical context as she participated in the design of the first fMRI study on car and bird expertise, as well as the first replication of this finding. Perhaps most relevant to readers interested in the neural bases of face processing, it is important to distinguish studies that describe the phenomenon of face-selectivity from those that test an explanation for this phenomenon. In the Progressions article, arguments for a face-dedicated processing module that is not the result of our experience with faces are provided without attention to a great deal of expertise research which is directly inconsistent with that claim. The claim also lacks more direct support, as face-selective responses in the visual system are not found in infants and children and face-selective activity in FFA does not appear to be heritable.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.07038v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'The knowledge paradox: why knowing more is knowing less', ['Bruno Burlando'], u'2017-02-20', u'To provide an explanation of the evolution of scientific knowledge, I start from the assumption that knowledge is based on concepts, and propose that each concept about reality is affected by vagueness. This entails a paradox, which I term Knowledge Paradox (KP): i.e. we need concepts to acquire knowledge about the real world but each concept is a step away from reality. The KP provides a unifying context for the sorites and the liar paradoxes. Any concept is viewed as a sorites, i.e. it is impossible to set a boundary between what is, and what is not, the entity to which the concept refers. Hence, any statement about reality can be reduced to a liar, wherefrom the KP follows in its most general form: -If I know, then I do not know-. The KP is self-referential but not contradictory, as it can be referred to two levels of knowledge: -if I know(epistemic), then I do not know(ontic)-, where the ontic level is made unachievable by concept vagueness. Such an interpretation of scientific knowledge provides an understanding of its dynamics. Concept proliferation within theories produces periods of knowledge decay that are episodically reversed by the formulation of new theories based on a smaller number of synthetic concepts.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.07227v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'The Diffusion of Humans and Cultures in the Course of the Spread of Farming', ['Carsten Lemmen', 'Detlef Gronenborn'], u'2017-02-22', u'The most profound change in the relationship between humans and their environment was the introduction of agriculture and pastoralism. [....] For an understanding of the expansion process, it appears appropriate to apply a diffusive model. Broadly, these numerical modeling approaches can be catego- rized in correlative, continuous and discrete. Common to all approaches is the comparison to collections of radiocarbon data that show the apparent wave of advance of the transition to farming. However, these data sets differ in entry density and data quality. Often they disregard local and regional specifics and research gaps, or dating uncertainties. Thus, most of these data bases may only be used on a very general, broad scale. One of the pitfalls of using irregularly spaced or irregularly documented radiocarbon data becomes evident from the map generated by Fort (this volume, Chapter 16): while the general east-west and south-north trends become evident, some areas appear as having undergone anomalously early transitions to farming. This may be due to faulty entries into the data base or regional problems with radiocarbon dating, if not unnoticed or undocumented laboratory mistakes.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.06977v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Evolution of the Ubiquitin-Activating Enzyme Uba1 (E1)', ['Douglas C. Allan', 'J. C. Phillips'], u'2017-02-22', u'Ubiquitin tags diseased proteins and initiates an enzyme conjugation cascade, which has three stages. The first-stage enzyme Uba1 (E1) has evolved only modestly from slime mold to humans, and is > 14 times larger than Ub. Here we use critical point thermodynamic scaling theory to connect Uba1 (E1) evolution from yeast and slime mold to fruit flies and humans to subtle changes in its amino acid sequences.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.06950v1', ['Other'], []]
[u'Time-Series Adaptive Estimation of Vaccination Uptake Using Web Search Queries', ['Niels Dalum Hansen', 'Kare Mlbak', 'Ingemar J. Cox', 'Christina Lioma'], u'2017-02-23', u'Estimating vaccination uptake is an integral part of ensuring public health. It was recently shown that vaccination uptake can be estimated automatically from web data, instead of slowly collected clinical records or population surveys. All prior work in this area assumes that features of vaccination uptake collected from the web are temporally regular. We present the first ever method to remove this assumption from vaccination uptake estimation: our method dynamically adapts to temporal fluctuations in time series web data used to estimate vaccination uptake. We show our method to outperform the state of the art compared to competitive baselines that use not only web data but also curated clinical data. This performance improvement is more pronounced for vaccines whose uptake has been irregular due to negative media attention (HPV-1 and HPV-2), problems in vaccine supply (DiTeKiPol), and targeted at children of 12 years old (whose vaccination is more irregular compared to younger children).', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.07326v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Particle Filters for Partially-Observed Boolean Dynamical Systems', ['Mahdi Imani', 'Ulisses Braga-Neto'], u'2017-02-23', u'Partially-observed Boolean dynamical systems (POBDS) are a general class of nonlinear models with application in estimation and control of Boolean processes based on noisy and incomplete measurements. The optimal minimum mean square error (MMSE) algorithms for POBDS state estimation, namely, the Boolean Kalman filter (BKF) and Boolean Kalman smoother (BKS), are intractable in the case of large systems, due to computational and memory requirements. To address this, we propose approximate MMSE filtering and smoothing algorithms based on the auxiliary particle filter (APF) method from sequential Monte-Carlo theory. These algorithms are used jointly with maximum-likelihood (ML) methods for simultaneous state and parameter estimation in POBDS models. In the presence of continuous parameters, ML estimation is performed using the expectation-maximization (EM) algorithm; we develop for this purpose a special smoother which reduces the computational complexity of the EM algorithm. The resulting particle-based adaptive filter is applied to a POBDS model of Boolean gene regulatory networks observed through noisy RNA-Seq time series data, and performance is assessed through a series of numerical experiments using the well-known cell cycle gene regulatory model.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.07269v1', ['Molecular Networks'], []]
[u'Evidence-based gene models for structural and functional annotations of the oil palm genome', ['Chan Kuang Lim', 'Tatiana V. Tatarinova', 'Rozana Rosli', 'Nadzirah Amiruddin', 'Norazah Azizi', 'Mohd Amin Ab Halim', 'Nik Shazana Nik Mohd Sanusi', 'Jayanthi Nagappan', 'Petr Ponomarenko', 'Martin Triska', 'Victor Solovyev', 'Mohd Firdaus-Raih', 'Ravigadevi Sambanthamurthi', 'Denis Murphy', 'Leslie Low Eng Ti'], u'2017-02-23', u'The advent of rapid and inexpensive DNA sequencing has led to an explosion of data waiting to be transformed into knowledge about genome organization and function. Gene prediction is customarily the starting point for genome analysis. This paper presents a bioinformatics study of the oil palm genome, including comparative genomics analysis, database and tools development, and mining of biological data for genes of interest. We have annotated 26,059 oil palm genes integrated from two independent gene-prediction pipelines, Fgenesh++ and Seqping. This integrated annotation constitutes a significant improvement in comparison to the preliminary annotation published in 2013. We conducted a comprehensive analysis of intronless, resistance and fatty acid biosynthesis genes, and demonstrated that the high quality of the current genome annotation. 3,658 intronless genes were identified in the oil palm genome, an important resource for evolutionary study. Further analysis of the oil palm genes revealed 210 candidate resistance genes involved in pathogen defense. Fatty acids have diverse applications ranging from food to industrial feedstocks, and we identified 42 key genes involved in fatty acid biosynthesis in oil palm. These results provide an important resource for studies of plant genomes and a theoretical foundation for marker-assisted breeding of oil palm and related crops.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.07246v1', ['Genomics'], []]
