[u'Information Bottleneck in Control Tasks with Recurrent Spiking Neural Networks', ['Madhavun Candadai Vasu', 'Eduardo Izquierdo'], u'2017-06-06', u'The nervous system encodes continuous information from the environment in the form of discrete spikes, and then decodes these to produce smooth motor actions. Understanding how spikes integrate, represent, and process information to produce behavior is one of the greatest challenges in neuroscience. Information theory has the potential to help us address this challenge. Informational analyses of deep and feed-forward artificial neural networks solving static input-output tasks, have led to the proposal of the \\emph{Information Bottleneck} principle, which states that deeper layers encode more relevant yet minimal information about the inputs. Such an analyses on networks that are recurrent, spiking, and perform control tasks is relatively unexplored. Here, we present results from a Mutual Information analysis of a recurrent spiking neural network that was evolved to perform the classic pole-balancing task. Our results show that these networks deviate from the \\emph{Information Bottleneck} principle prescribed for feed-forward networks.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.01831v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Visual pathways from the perspective of cost functions and multi-task deep neural networks', ['H. Steven Scholte', 'Max M. Losch', 'Kandan Ramakrishnan', 'Edward H. F. de Haan', 'Sander M. Bohte'], u'2017-06-06', u'Vision research has been shaped by the seminal insight that we can understand higher-tier visual cortex from the perspective of multiple functional pathways with different goals. In this paper we try to give a computational account of the functional organization of this system by reasoning from the perspective of multi-task deep neural networks. Machine learning has shown that tasks become easier to solve when they are decomposed into subtasks with their own cost function. We hypothesise that the visual system optimizes multiple cost functions of unrelated tasks and this causes the emergence of the ventral pathway, dedicated to vision for perception and dorsal pathway, dedicated to vision for action. To evaluate the functional organization in multi-task deep neural networks we propose a method that measures the contribution of a unit towards each task and apply it to two networks that have been trained on either two related or two unrelated tasks using an identical stimulus set. Results show that the network trained on the unrelated tasks shows a decreasing degree of feature representation sharing towards higher-tier layers while the network trained on related tasks uniformly shows high degree of sharing. We conjecture that the method we propose can be used to reason about the anatomical and functional organization of the visual system and beyond as we predict that the degree to which tasks are related is a good descriptor of the degree to which they can share downstream cortical-units.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.01757v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'The Impact of Flow in an EEG-based Brain Computer Interface', ['Jelena Mladenovic', 'Jeremy Frey', 'Manon Bonnet-Save', 'Jeremie Mattout', 'Fabien Lotte'], u'2017-06-06', u"Major issues in Brain Computer Interfaces (BCIs) include low usability and poor user performance. This paper tackles them by ensuring the users to be in a state of immersion, control and motivation, called state of flow. Indeed, in various disciplines, being in the state of flow was shown to improve performances and learning. Hence, we intended to draw BCI users in a flow state to improve both their subjective experience and their performances. In a Motor Imagery BCI game, we manipulated flow in two ways: 1) by adapting the task difficulty and 2) by using background music. Results showed that the difficulty adaptation induced a higher flow state, however music had no effect. There was a positive correlation between subjective flow scores and offline performance, although the flow factors had no effect (adaptation) or negative effect (music) on online performance. Overall, favouring the flow state seems a promising approach for enhancing users' satisfaction, although its complexity requires more thorough investigations.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.01728v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], [u'Potioc', u'LaBRI, Potioc']]
[u'Will Break for Productivity: Generalized Symptoms of Cognitive Depletion', ['Lyndsey Franklin', 'Kristina Lerman', 'Nathan Hodas'], u'2017-06-05', u"In this work, we address the symptoms of cognitive depletion as they relate to generalized knowledge workers. We unify previous findings within a single analytical model of cognitive depletion. Our purpose is to develop a model that will help us predict when a person has reached a sufficient state of cognitive depletion such that taking a break or some other restorative action will benefit both his or her own wellbeing and the quality of his or her performance. We provide a definition of each symptom in our model as well as the effect it would have on a knowledge worker's ability to work productively. We discuss methods to detect each symptom that do not require self assessment. Understanding symptoms of cognitive depletion provides the ability to support human knowledge workers by reducing the stress involved with cognitive and work overload while maintaining or improving the quality of their performance.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.01521v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Global metabolic interaction network of the human gut microbiota for context-specific community-scale analysis', ['Jaeyun Sung', 'Seunghyeon Kim', 'Josephine Jill T. Cabatbat', 'Sungho Jang', 'Yong-Su Jin', 'Gyoo Yeol Jung', 'Nicholas Chia', 'Pan-Jun Kim'], u'2017-06-06', u'A system-level framework of complex microbe-microbe and host-microbe chemical cross-talk would help elucidate the role of our gut microbiota in health and disease. Here we report a literature-curated interspecies network of the human gut microbiota, called NJS16. This is an extensive data resource composed of ~570 microbial species and 3 human cell types metabolically interacting through >4,400 small-molecule transport and macromolecule degradation events. Based on the contents of our network, we develop a mathematical approach to elucidate representative microbial and metabolic features of the gut microbial community in a given population, such as a disease cohort. Applying this strategy to microbiome data from type 2 diabetes patients reveals a context-specific infrastructure of the gut microbial ecosystem, core microbial entities with large metabolic influence, and frequently-produced metabolic compounds that might indicate relevant community metabolic processes. Our network presents a foundation towards integrative investigations of community-scale microbial activities within the human gut.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.01787v1', ['Populations and Evolution', 'Molecular Networks'], []]
[u'Evolutionary Genetic Engineering in the Indo-Pacific: Conservation, Humanitarian, and Social Issues', ['Floyd A. Reed'], u'2017-06-06', u"The Indo-Pacific region contains a unique mix of opportunities for the development and use of genetic-pest-management, gene-drive, and gene-drive-like technologies. Here I collectively refer to these technologies as Evolutionary Genetic Engineering (EGE). Indo-Pacific Islands have some of the world's highest rates of endemism and extinction---species and entire ecosystems are at risk. This threat to the natural world is coupled with the burden of human diseases, many of which are new and emerging or neglected tropical diseases. The same factors which have led to high rates of endemism also, in some ways, make this region an ideal testing ground for some types of EGE's. There is great potential for positive humanitarian, economic, and conservation applications of EGE's. However, these types of new technologies will be initially viewed from the perspective of the recent history of a loss of self determination, issues of social justice, and the testing of new technologies (e.g., biocontrol, agricultural, nuclear) in the Indo-Pacific---a region of the world that is still extensively colonized and controlled by Western Nations. Experience with successes and failures in related technologies suggests a path to move forward---a set of eight recommendations---to maximize the potential payoffs and minimize unintended negative effects of EGE's.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.01710v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Retrosynthetic reaction prediction using neural sequence-to-sequence models', ['Bowen Liu', 'Bharath Ramsundar', 'Prasad Kawthekar', 'Jade Shi', 'Joseph Gomes', 'Quang Luu Nguyen', 'Stephen Ho', 'Jack Sloane', 'Paul Wender', 'Vijay Pande'], u'2017-06-06', u'We describe a fully data driven model that learns to perform a retrosynthetic reaction prediction task, which is treated as a sequence-to-sequence mapping problem. The end-to-end trained model has an encoder-decoder architecture that consists of two recurrent neural networks, which has previously shown great success in solving other sequence-to-sequence prediction tasks such as machine translation. The model is trained on 50,000 experimental reaction examples from the United States patent literature, which span 10 broad reaction types that are commonly used by medicinal chemists. We find that our model performs comparably with a rule-based expert system baseline model, and also overcomes certain limitations associated with rule-based expert systems and with any machine learning approach that contains a rule-based expert system component. Our model provides an important first step towards solving the challenging problem of computational retrosynthetic analysis.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.01643v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Deep learning for extracting protein-protein interactions from biomedical literature', ['Yifan Peng', 'Zhiyong Lu'], u'2017-06-05', u'State-of-the-art methods for protein-protein interaction (PPI) extraction are primarily feature-based or kernel-based by leveraging lexical and syntactic information. But how to incorporate such knowledge in the recent deep learning methods remains an open question. In this paper, we propose a multichannel dependency-based convolutional neural network model (McDepCNN). It applies one channel to the embedding vector of each word in the sentence, and another channel to the embedding vector of the head of the corresponding word. Therefore, the model can use richer information obtained from different channels. Experiments on two public benchmarking datasets, AIMed and BioInfer, demonstrate that McDepCNN compares favorably to the state-of-the-art rich-feature and single-kernel based methods. In addition, McDepCNN achieves 24.4% relative improvement in F1-score over the state-of-the-art methods on cross-corpus evaluation and 12% improvement in F1-score over kernel-based methods on "difficult" instances. These results suggest that McDepCNN generalizes more easily over different corpora, and is capable of capturing long distance features in the sentences.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.01556v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
