[u'Normative Theory of Visual Receptive Fields', ['Tony Lindeberg'], u'2017-01-23', u'This article gives an overview of a normative computational theory of visual receptive fields, by which idealized shapes of early spatial, spatio-chromatic and spatio-temporal receptive fields can be derived in an axiomatic way based on structural properties of the environment in combination with assumptions about the internal structure of a vision system to guarantee consistent handling of image representations over multiple spatial and temporal scales. Interestingly, this theory leads to predictions about visual receptive field shapes with qualitatively very good similarity to biological receptive fields measured in the retina, the LGN and the primary visual cortex (V1) of mammals.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.06333v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Behind Every Great Tree is a Great (Phylogenetic) Network', ['Michael Hendriksen'], u'2017-01-23', u'In Francis and Steel (2015), it was shown that there exists non-trivial networks on $4$ leaves upon which the distance metric affords a metric on a tree which is not the base tree of the network. In this paper we extend this result in two directions. We show that for any tree $T$ there exists a family of non-trivial HGT networks $N$ for which the distance metric $d_N$ affords a metric on $T$. We additionally provide a class of networks on any number of leaves upon which the distance metric affords a metric on a tree which is not the base tree of the network. The family of networks are all "floating" networks, a subclass of a novel family of networks introduced in this paper, and referred to as "versatile" networks. Versatile networks are then characterised. Additionally, we find a lower bound for the number of `useful\' HGT arcs in such networks, in a sense explained in the paper. This lower bound is equal to the number of HGT arcs required for each floating network in the main results, and thus our networks are minimal in this sense.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.06249v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'The Evolution of Reputation-Based Cooperation in Regular Networks', ['Tatsuya Sasaki', 'Hitoshi Yamamoto', 'Isamu Okada', 'Satoshi Uchida'], u'2017-01-22', u'Despite recent advances in reputation technologies, it is not clear how reputation systems can affect human cooperation in social networks. Although it is known that two of the major mechanisms in the evolution of cooperation are spatial selection and reputation-based reciprocity, theoretical study of the interplay between both mechanisms remains almost uncharted. Here, we present a new individual-based model for the evolution of reciprocal cooperation between reputation and networks. We comparatively analyze four of the leading moral assessment rules---shunning, image scoring, stern judging, and simple standing---and base the model on the giving game in regular networks for Cooperators, Defectors, and Discriminators. Discriminators rely on a proper moral assessment rule. By using individual-based models, we show that the four assessment rules are differently characterized in terms of how cooperation evolves, depending on the benefit-to-cost ratio, the network-node degree, and the observation and error conditions. Our findings show that the most tolerant rule---simple standing---is the most robust among the four assessment rules in promoting cooperation in regular networks.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.06153v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'On the tradeoff between antibiotic efficacy and the selection for resistance in spatial gradients', ['Matti Gralka', 'Diana Fusco', 'Stephen Martis', 'Oskar Hallatschek'], u'2017-01-21', u'Since penicillin was discovered about 90 years ago, we have become used to using drugs to eradicate unwanted pathogenic cells. However, using drugs to kill bacteria, viruses or cancer cells has the serious side effect of selecting for mutant types that survive the drug attack. A key question therefore is how one could kill as many cells as possible for a given acceptable risk of drug resistance evolution. We address this general question in a model of drug resistance evolution in spatial drug gradients, which recent experiments and theories have suggested as key drivers of drug resistance. Importantly, our model also includes the influence of convection, resulting for instance from blood flow. Using stochastic simulations, we quantify the trade-off between the killing of wild-type cells and the rise of resistance mutations: shallow gradients and convection into the antibiotic region promote wild-type death, at the cost of increasing the establishment probability of resistance mutations. We can explain these observed trends by modeling the adaptation process as a branching random walk. Our analysis also reveals that the trade-off between death and adaptation depends on a few key control parameters, which compare the strengths of the spatial drug gradient with the convection and random dispersal terms. Our results show in particular that convection can have a momentous effect on the rate of establishment of new mutations, and may heavily impact the efficiency of antibiotic treatment.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.05970v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'dna2vec: Consistent vector representations of variable-length k-mers', ['Patrick Ng'], u'2017-01-23', u'One of the ubiquitous representation of long DNA sequence is dividing it into shorter k-mer components. Unfortunately, the straightforward vector encoding of k-mer as a one-hot vector is vulnerable to the curse of dimensionality. Worse yet, the distance between any pair of one-hot vectors is equidistant. This is particularly problematic when applying the latest machine learning algorithms to solve problems in biological sequence analysis. In this paper, we propose a novel method to train distributed representations of variable-length k-mers. Our method is based on the popular word embedding model word2vec, which is trained on a shallow two-layer neural network. Our experiments provide evidence that the summing of dna2vec vectors is akin to nucleotides concatenation. We also demonstrate that there is correlation between Needleman-Wunsch similarity score and cosine similarity of dna2vec vectors.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.06279v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Effect of fractional blood flow on plasma skimming in the microvasculature', ['Jiho Yang', 'Sung Sic Yoo', 'Tae-Rin Lee'], u'2017-01-23', u'Although redistribution of red blood cells at bifurcated vessels is highly dependent on flow rate, it is still challenging to quantitatively express the dependency of flow rate in plasma skimming due to nonlinear cellular interactions. We suggest a plasma skimming model that can involve the effect of fractional blood flow at each bifurcation point. For validating the new model, it is compared with \\textit{in vivo} data at single bifurcation points, as well as microvascular network systems. In the simulation results, the exponential decay of plasma skimming parameter, $M$, along fractional flow rate shows the best performance in both cases.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.06267v1', ['Quantitative Methods', 'Tissues and Organs'], []]
[u'DeadNet: Identifying Phototoxicity from Label-free Microscopy Images of Cells using Deep ConvNets', ['David Richmond', 'Anna Payne-Tobin Jost', 'Talley Lambert', 'Jennifer Waters', 'Hunter Elliott'], u'2017-01-22', u'Exposure to intense illumination light is an unavoidable consequence of fluorescence microscopy, and poses a risk to the health of the sample in every live-cell fluorescence microscopy experiment. Furthermore, the possible side-effects of phototoxicity on the scientific conclusions that are drawn from an imaging experiment are often unaccounted for. Previously, controlling for phototoxicity in imaging experiments required additional labels and experiments, limiting its widespread application. Here we provide a proof-of-principle demonstration that the phototoxic effects of an imaging experiment can be identified directly from a single phase-contrast image using deep convolutional neural networks (ConvNets). This lays the groundwork for an automated tool for assessing cell health in a wide range of imaging experiments. Interpretability of such a method is crucial for its adoption. We take steps towards interpreting the classification mechanism of the trained ConvNet by visualizing salient features of images that contribute to accurate classification.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.06109v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'ImageJ2: ImageJ for the next generation of scientific image data', ['Curtis T. Rueden', 'Johannes Schindelin', 'Mark C. Hiner', 'Barry E. DeZonia', 'Alison E. Walter', 'Kevin W. Eliceiri'], u'2017-01-20', u"ImageJ is an image analysis program extensively used in the biological sciences and beyond. Due to its ease of use, recordable macro language, and extensible plug-in architecture, ImageJ enjoys contributions from non-programmers, amateur programmers, and professional developers alike---a feat that arguably no other image analysis package, commercial or open source, has yet achieved. Enabling such a diversity of contributors has resulted in a unique community that spans the biological and physical sciences, making ImageJ an invaluable resource across countless disciplines. However, a rapidly growing user base, diverging plugin suites, and technical limitations have revealed a clear need for a concerted software engineering effort to support emerging imaging paradigms, to ensure the software's ability to handle the requirements of modern science. Due to these new and emerging challenges in scientific imaging, ImageJ at a critical development crossroads. We present ImageJ2, a total redesign of ImageJ offering a host of new functionality. It separates concerns, fully decoupling the data model from the user interface. It emphasizes integration with external applications to maximize interoperability. Its robust new plugin framework allows everything from image formats, to scripting languages, to visualization to be extended by the community. The redesigned data model supports arbitrarily large, N-dimensional datasets, which are increasingly common in modern image acquisition. Despite the scope of these changes, backwards compatibility is maintained such that this new functionality can be seamlessly integrated with the classic ImageJ interface, allowing users and developers to migrate to these new methods at their own pace. ImageJ2 provides a framework adaptable to future needs, enabling continued success and innovation.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.05940v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Understanding cancer complexome using networks, spectral graph theory and multilayer framework', ['Aparna Rai', 'Priodyuti Pradhan', 'Jyothi Nagraj', 'K. Lohitesh', 'Rajdeep Chowdhury', 'Sarika Jalan'], u'2017-01-23', u'Cancer complexome comprises a heterogeneous and multifactorial milieu that varies in cytology, physiology, signaling mechanisms and response to therapy. The combined framework of network theory and spectral graph theory along with the multilayer anal- ysis provides a comprehensive approach to analyze the proteomic data of seven different cancers, namely, breast, oral, ovarian, cervical, lung, colon and prostate. Our analysis demonstrates that the protein-protein interaction networks of the normal and the cancerous tissues associated with the seven cancers have overall similar structural and spectral properties. However, few of these properties implicate unsystematic changes from the normal to the disease networks depicting difference in the interactions and highlighting changes in the complexity of different cancers. Importantly, analysis of common proteins of all the cancer networks reveals few proteins namely the sensors, which not only occupy significant position in all the layers but also have direct involvement in causing cancer. The prediction and analysis of miRNAs targeting these sensor proteins hint towards the possible role of these proteins in tumorigenesis. This novel approach helps in understanding cancer at the fundamental level and provides a clue to develop promising and nascent concept of single drug therapy for multiple diseases as well as personalized medicine.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.06349v1', ['Molecular Networks'], []]
[u'Recycling controls membrane domains', ['S. Alex Rautu', 'G. Rowlands', 'M. S. Turner'], u'2017-01-22', u'We study the coarsening of strongly microphase separated membrane domains in the presence of recycling of material. We study the dynamics of the domain size distribution under both scale-free and size-dependent recycling. Closed form solutions to the steady state distributions and its associated central moments are obtained in both cases. Moreover, for the size-independent case, the~time evolution of the moments is analytically calculated, which provide us with exact results for their corresponding relaxation times. Since these moments and relaxation times are measurable quantities, the biophysically significant free parameters in our model may be determined by comparison with experimental data.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.06184v1', ['Subcellular Processes'], []]
[u'Monod-Wyman-Changeux Analysis of Ligand-Gated Ion Channel Mutants', ['Tal Einav', 'Rob Phillips'], u'2017-01-22', u'We present a framework for computing the gating properties of ligand-gated ion channel mutants using the Monod-Wyman-Changeux (MWC) model of allostery. We derive simple analytic formulas for key functional properties such as the leakiness, dynamic range, half-maximal effective concentration, and effective Hill coefficient, and explore the full spectrum of phenotypes that are accessible through mutations. Specifically, we consider mutations in the channel pore of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) and the ligand binding domain of a cyclic nucleotide-gated (CNG) ion channel, demonstrating how each mutation can be characterized as only affecting a subset of the biophysical parameters. In addition, we show how the unifying perspective offered by the MWC model allows us, perhaps surprisingly, to collapse the plethora of dose-response data from different classes of ion channels into a universal family of curves.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.06122v1', ['Subcellular Processes'], []]
[u'Abortive Initiation as a Bottleneck for Transcription in the Early Drosophila Embryo', ['Alexander S. Serov', 'Alexander J. Levine', 'Madhav Mani'], u'2017-01-21', u'Gene transcription is a critical step in gene expression. The currently accepted physical model of transcription predicts the existence of a physical limit on the maximal rate of transcription, which does not depend on the transcribed gene. This limit appears as a result of polymerase "traffic jams" forming in the bulk of the 1D DNA chain at high polymerase concentrations. Recent experiments have, for the first time, allowed one to access live gene expression dynamics in the Drosophila fly embryo in vivo under the conditions of heavy polymerase load and test the predictions of the model. Our analysis of the data shows that the maximal rate of transcription is indeed the same for the Hunchback, Snail and Knirps gap genes, and modified gene constructs in nuclear cycles 13, 14, but the experimentally observed value of the maximal transcription rate corresponds to only 40 % of the one predicted by this model. We argue that such a decrease must be due to a slower polymerase elongation rate in the vicinity of the promoter region. This effectively shifts the bottleneck of transcription from the bulk to the promoter region of the gene. We suggest a quantitative explanation of the difference by taking into account abortive transcription initiation. Our calculations based on the independently measured abortive initiation constant in vitro confirm this hypothesis and find quantitative agreement with MS2 fluorescence live imaging data in the early fruit fly embryo. If our explanation is correct, then the transcription rate cannot be increased by replacing "slow codons" in the bulk with synonymous codons, and experimental efforts must be focused on the promoter region instead. This study extends our understanding of transcriptional regulation, re-examines physical constraints on the kinetics of transcription and re-evaluates the validity of the standard TASEP model of transcription.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.06079v1', ['Subcellular Processes'], []]
[u'The irreversible thermodynamics of curved lipid membranes', ['Amaresh Sahu', 'Roger A. Sauer', 'Kranthi K. Mandadapu'], u'2017-01-23', u'The theory of irreversible thermodynamics for arbitrarily curved lipid membranes is presented here. The coupling between elastic bending and irreversible processes such as intra-membrane lipid flow, intra-membrane phase transitions, and protein binding and diffusion is studied. The forms of the entropy production for the irreversible processes are obtained, and the corresponding thermodynamic forces and fluxes are identified. Employing the linear irreversible thermodynamic framework, the governing equations of motion along with appropriate boundary conditions are provided.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.06495v1', ['Cell Behavior'], []]
[u'Synthetic associative learning in engineered multicellular consortia', ['Javier Macia', 'Blai Vidiella', 'Ricard Sole'], u'2017-01-21', u'Associative learning is one of the key mechanisms displayed by living organisms in order to adapt to their changing environments. It was early recognized to be a general trait of complex multicellular organisms but also found in "simpler" ones. It has also been explored within synthetic biology using molecular circuits that are directly inspired in neural network models of conditioning. These designs involve complex wiring diagrams to be implemented within one single cell and the presence of diverse molecular wires become a challenge that might be very difficult to overcome. Here we present three alternative circuit designs based on two-cell microbial consortia able to properly display associative learning responses to two classes of stimuli and displaying long and short-term memory (i. e. the association can be lost with time). These designs might be a helpful approach for engineering the human gut microbiome or even synthetic organoids, defining a new class of decision-making biological circuits capable of memory and adaptation to changing conditions. The potential implications and extensions are outlined.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.06086v1', ['Cell Behavior'], []]
