[u'Topological transformations in proteins: effects of heating and proximity of an interface', ['Yani Zhao', 'Mateusz Chwastyk', 'Marek Cieplak'], u'2017-01-19', u'Using a structure-based coarse-grained model of proteins, we study the mechanism of unfolding of knotted proteins through heating. We find that the dominant mechanisms of unfolding depend on the temperature applied and are generally distinct from those identified for folding at its optimal temperature. In particular, for shallowly knotted proteins, folding usually involves formation of two loops whereas unfolding through high-temperature heating is dominated by untying of single loops. Untying the knots is found to generally precede unfolding unless the protein is deeply knotted and the heating temperature exceeds a threshold value. We then use a phenomenological model of the air-water interface to show that such an interface can untie shallow knots, but it can also make knots in proteins that are natively unknotted.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.05619v1', ['Biomolecules'], []]
[u'Quantitative modeling and analysis of bifurcation-induced bursting', ['J. E. Rubin', 'B. Krauskopf', 'H. M. Osinga'], u'2017-01-20', u"Modeling and parameter estimation for neuronal dynamics are often challenging because many parameters can range over orders of magnitude and are difficult to measure experimentally. Moreover, selecting a suitable model complexity requires a sufficient understanding of the model's potential use, such as highlighting essential mechanisms underlying qualitative behavior or precisely quantifying realistic dynamics. We present a novel approach that can guide model development and tuning to achieve desired qualitative and quantitative solution properties. Our approach relies on the presence of disparate time scales and employs techniques of separating the dynamics of fast and slow variables, which are well known in the analysis of qualitative solution features. We build on these methods to show how it is also possible to obtain quantitative solution features by imposing designed dynamics for the slow variables in the form of specified two-dimensional paths in a bifurcation-parameter landscape.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.05685v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Luria-Delbruck, revisited: The classic experiment does not rule out Lamarckian evolution', ['Caroline Holmes', 'Mahan Ghafari', 'Abbas Anzar', 'Varun Saravanan', 'Ilya Nemenman'], u'2017-01-19', u'We re-examined data from the classic Luria-Delbruck fluctuation experiment, which is often credited with establishing a Darwinian basis for evolution. We argue that, for the Lamarckian model of evolution to be ruled out by the experiment, the experiment must favor pure Darwinian evolution over both the Lamarckian model and a model that allows both Darwinian and Lamarckian mechanisms. Analysis of the combined model was not performed in the original 1943 paper. The Luria-Delbruck paper also did not consider the possibility of neither model fitting the experiment. Using Bayesian model selection, we find that the Luria-Delbruck experiment, indeed, favors the Darwinian evolution over purely Lamarckian. However, our analysis does not rule out the combined model, and hence cannot rule out Lamarckian contributions to the evolutionary dynamics.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.05627v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Increased Efficiency in the Second-Hand Tire Trade Provides Opportunity for Dengue Control', ['Emilene Pliego Pliego', 'Jorge Velazquez-Castro', 'Markus P. Eichhorn', 'Andres Fraguela Collar'], u'2017-01-19', u'Dengue fever is increasing in geographical range, spread by invasion of its vector mosquitoes. The trade in second-hand tires has been implicated as a factor in this process as they act as mobile reservoirs of mosquito eggs and larvae. Regional transportation of tires can create linkages between rural areas with dengue to disease-free urban areas, potentially giving rise to outbreaks even in areas with strong local control measures. In this work we sought to model the dynamics of mosquito transportation via the tire trade, in particular to predict its role in causing unexpected dengue outbreaks through vertical transmission of the virus across generations of mosquitoes. We also aimed to identify strategies for regulating the trade in second-hand tires, improving disease control. We created a mathematical model which captures the dynamics of dengue between rural and urban areas, taking into account the movement, storage time of tires, and mosquito diapause. We simulate a series of scenarios. First a mosquito population is introduced to a dengue-free area via movement of tires, either as single or multiple events, increasing the likelihood of a dengue outbreak. An endemic state can be induced regardless of whether urban conditions for an outbreak are met, and an existing endemic state can be enhanced by vector input. Finally we assess the potential for regulation of tire processing as a means of reducing the transmission of dengue fever using a specific case study from Puerto Rico. Our work demonstrates the importance of the second-hand tire trade in modulating the spread of dengue fever across regions, in particular its role in introducing dengue to disease-free areas. We propose that regulation of tire storage and movement can play a crucial role in containing outbreaks and dengue spread.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.05607v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Growth cessation of lower margin Qinghai spruce corresponds to years with low early-monsoon precipitation', ['Shoudong Zhao', 'Yuan Jiang', 'Manyu Dong', 'Hui Xu', 'Neil Pederson'], u'2017-01-20', u'This study aims to evaluate and compare the climatic drivers of Qinghai spruce, a species endemic to northwest China, over an elevational gradient, from its lower distributional margin to its upper distributional margin. We sampled pure Qinghai spruce stands and obtained time-series of growth from 25 trees each in three populations across it distributional range in the Helan Mountains. We found that trees at the lower distributional margin have lower first-order autocorrelation coefficients in annual growth and have experienced an increase in locally-absent rings (stem-growth cessation) since 2001. While all populations have a similar growth response to climate, trees at lower distributional margin are more sensitive to variations in June precipitation and July vapor pressure deficit (VPD) than populations at higher elevations. Early-monsoonal precipitation, June, appears to be the primary diver of stem-growth cessation events in trees at the lower distributional margin. Evidence indicates that July VPD exacerbates the effect of low June rainfall enough to increase stem-growth cessation in the lower distribution population. Our results find that precipitation is a major driver of Qinghai spruce growth, trees at lower distribution limit are more sensitive to precipitation than at higher elevations, and that high VPD exacerbates stress such that it increases the rate of stem-growth cessation. It seems that the increase in severity and frequency of stem-growth cessation could be a signal of an ecological tipping point in the lower population. Increased vapor pressure deficit and warming in the region would likely exacerbate the stress of low early-monsoonal rainfall on Qinghai spruce growth. If this occurs, it could potentially increase the mortality rate of lower distributional margin trees, especially those that are already experiencing events of temporary growth cessation.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.05809v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Convolutional Neural Networks for Automated Annotation of Cellular Cryo-Electron Tomograms', ['Muyuan Chen', 'Wei Dai', 'Ying Sun', 'Darius Jonasch', 'Cynthia Y He', 'Michael F. Schmid', 'Wah Chiu', 'Steven J Ludtke'], u'2017-01-19', u'Cellular Electron Cryotomography (CryoET) offers the ability to look inside cells and observe macromolecules frozen in action. The primary challenge for this technique is identifying and extracting the molecular components within the crowded cellular environment. We introduce a method using neural networks to dramatically reduce the time and human effort required for subcellular annotation and feature extraction. Subsequent subtomogram classification and averaging yields in-situ structures of molecular components of interest.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.05567v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Detection and tracking of chemical trails by local sensory systems', ['Yangyang Huang', 'Jeannette Yen', 'Eva Kanso'], u'2017-01-20', u"Many aquatic organisms exhibit remarkable abilities to detect and track chemical signals when foraging, mating and escaping. For example, the male copepod { \\em T. longicornis} identifies the female in the open ocean by following its chemically-flavored trail. Here, we develop a mathematical framework in which a local sensory system is able to detect the local concentration field and adjust its orientation accordingly. We show that this system is able to detect and track chemical trails without knowing the trail's global or relative position.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.05662v1', ['Cell Behavior'], []]
