[u'Design of elastic networks with evolutionary optimised long-range communication as mechanical models of allosteric proteins', ['Holger Flechsig'], u'2017-02-27', u'Allosteric effects are often underlying the activity of proteins and elucidating generic design aspects and functional principles which are unique to allosteric phenomena represents a major challenge. Here an approach which consists in the in silico design of synthetic structures which, as the principal element of allostery, encode dynamical long-range coupling among two sites is presented. The structures are represented by elastic networks, similar to coarse-grained models of real proteins. A strategy of evolutionary optimization was implemented to iteratively improve allosteric coupling. In the designed structures allosteric interactions were analyzed in terms of strain propagation and simple pathways which emerged during evolution were identified as signatures through which long-range communication was established. Moreover, robustness of allosteric performance with respect to mutations was demonstrated. As it turned out, the designed prototype structures reveal dynamical properties resembling those found in real allosteric proteins. Hence, they may serve as toy models of complex allosteric systems, such as proteins.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.08317v1', ['Biomolecules'], []]
[u'Large-scale chromosome folding versus genomic DNA sequences', ['V. R. Chechetkin', 'V. V. Lobzin'], u'2017-02-27', u'Using state-of-the-art techniques combining imaging methods and high-throughput genomic mapping tools leaded to the significant progress in detailing chromosome architecture of various organisms. However, a gap still remains between the rapidly growing structural data on the chromosome folding and the large-scale genome organization. Could a part of information on the chromosome folding be obtained directly from underlying genomic DNA sequences abundantly stored in the databanks? To answer this question, we developed an original discrete double Fourier transform (DDFT). DDFT serves for the detection of large-scale genome regularities associated with domains/units at the different levels of hierarchical chromosome folding. The method is versatile and can be applied to both genomic DNA sequences and corresponding physico-chemical parameters such as base-pairing free energy. The latter characteristic is closely related to the replication and transcription and can also be used for the assessment of temperature or supercoiling effects on the chromosome folding. We tested the method on the genome of Escherichia coli K-12 and found good correspondence with the annotated domains/units established experimentally. The combined experimental, modeling, and bioinformatic DDFT analysis should yield more complete knowledge on the chromosome architecture and genome organization.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.08267v1', ['Biomolecules', 'Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Intra-protein binding peptide fragments have specific and intrinsic sequence patterns', ['Yuhong Wang', 'Junzhou Huang', 'Wei Li', 'Sheng Wang', 'Chuanfan Ding'], u'2017-02-26', u'The key finding in the DNA double helix model is the specific pairing or binding between nucleotides A-T and C-G, and the pairing rules are the molecule basis of genetic code. Unfortunately, no such rules have been discovered for proteins. Here we show that similar rules and intrinsic sequence patterns between intra-protein binding peptide fragments do exist, and they can be extracted using a deep learning algorithm. Multi-millions of binding and non-binding peptide fragments from currently available protein X-ray structures are classified with an accuracy of up to 93%. This discovery has the potential in helping solve protein folding and protein-protein interaction problems, two open and fundamental problems in molecular biology.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.08078v1', ['Biomolecules'], []]
[u'The role of the observer in goal-directed behavior', ['Ines Samengo'], u'2017-02-27', u'In goal-directed behavior, a large number of possible initial states end up in the pursued goal. The accompanying information loss implies that goal-oriented behavior is in one-to-one correspondence with an open subsystem whose entropy decreases in time. Yet ultimately, the laws of physics are reversible, so systems capable of yielding goal-directed behavior must transfer the information about initial conditions to other degrees of freedom outside the boundaries of the agent. To operate steadily, they must consume ordered degrees of freedom provided as input, and be dispensed of disordered outputs that act as wastes from the point of view of the aimed objective. Here I argue that a physical system may or may not display goal-directed behavior depending on what exactly is defined as the agent. The borders of the agent must be carefully tailored so as to entail the appropriate information balance sheet. In this game, observers play the role of tailors: They design agents by setting the limits of the system of interest. Brain-guided subjects perform this creative observation task naturally, implying that the observation of goal-oriented behavior is a goal-oriented behavior in itself. Minds evolved to cut out pieces of reality and endow them with intentionality, because ascribing intentionality is an efficient way of modeling the world, and making predictions. One most remarkable agent of whom we have indisputable evidence of its goal-pursuing attitude is the self. Notably, this agent is simultaneously the subject and the object of observation.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.08421v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Ambiguity invokes Creativity : looking through Quantum physics', ['Souparno Roy', 'Archi Banerjee', 'Ranjan Sengupta', 'Dipak Ghosh'], u'2017-02-23', u'Creativity, defined as the tendency to generate or recognize new ideas or alternatives and to make connections between seemingly unrelated phenomena, is too vast a horizon to be summed up in such a simple sentence. The extreme abstractness of creativity makes it harder to quantify in its entirety. Yet, a lot of efforts have been made both by psychologists and neurobiologists to identify its signature. A general conformity is expressed in the Free association theory, i.e. the more freely a persons conceptual nodes are connected, the more divergent thinker (also, creative) he or she is. Also, tolerance of ambiguity is found to be related to divergent thinking. In this study, we approach the problem of creativity from a theoretical physics standpoint. Theoretically, for the initial conceptual state, the next jump to any other node is equally probable and non-deterministic. Repeated intervention of external stimulus (analogous to a measurement) is responsible for such jumps. And to study such a non-deterministic system with continuous measurements, Quantum theory has been proven the most successful, time and again. We suggest that this collection of nodes form a system which is likely to be governed by quantum physics and specify the transformations which could help explain the conceptual jump between states. Our argument, from the point of view of physics is that the initial evolution of the creative process is identical, person or field independent. To answer the next obvious question about individual creativity, we hypothesize that the quantum system, under continuous measurements (in the form of external stimuli) evolves with chaotic dynamics, hence separating a painter from a musician. Possible experimental methodology of these effects has also been suggested using ambiguous figures.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.07734v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'The revival of Baldwin Effect', ['Jose F. Fontanari', 'Mauro Santos'], u'2017-02-27', u'The idea that a genetically fixed behavior evolved from the once differential learning ability of individuals that performed the behavior is known as the Baldwin effect. A highly influential paper [Complex Syst. 1, 495 (1987)] claimed that this effect can be observed in silico, but here we argue that what was actually shown is that the learning ability is easily selected for. Then we demonstrate the Baldwin effect to happen in the in-silico scenario by estimating the probability and waiting times for the learned behavior to become innate. We find that learning increases the chance of fixation of the learned behavior by at least 7 orders of magnitude compared with the non-learning situation.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.08411v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Phenomenology of stochastic exponential growth', ['Dan Pirjol', 'Farshid Jafarpour', 'Srividya Iyer-Biswas'], u'2017-02-26', u'Stochastic exponential growth is observed in a variety of contexts, including molecular autocatalysis, nuclear fission, population growth, inflation of the universe, viral social media posts, and financial markets. Yet literature on modeling the phenomenology of these stochastic dynamics has predominantly focused on one model, Geometric Brownian Motion (GBM), which can be described as the solution of a Langevin equation with linear drift and linear multiplicative noise. Using recent experimental results on stochastic exponential growth of individual bacterial cell sizes, we motivate the need for a more general class of phenomenological models of stochastic exponential growth, which are consistent with the observation that the mean-rescaled distributions are approximately stationary at long times. We show that this behavior is not consistent with GBM, instead it is consistent with power law multiplicative noise with positive fractional powers. Therefore, we consider this general class of phenomenological models for stochastic exponential growth, provide analytical solutions, and identify the important dimensionless combination of model parameters which determines the shape of the mean-rescaled distribution. We also provide a prescription for robustly inferring model parameters from experimentally observed stochastic growth trajectories.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.08035v1', ['Populations and Evolution', 'Quantitative Methods', 'Cell Behavior'], []]
[u'Random ultrametric trees and applications', ['Amaury Lambert'], u'2017-02-25', u'Ultrametric trees are trees whose leaves lie at the same distance from the root. They are used to model the genealogy of a population of particles co-existing at the same point in time. We show how the boundary of an ultrametric tree, like any compact ultrametric space, can be represented in a simple way via the so-called comb metric. We display a variety of examples of random combs and explain how they can be used in applications. In particular, we review some old and recent results regarding the genetic structure of the population when throwing neutral mutations on the skeleton of the tree.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.07916v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Probabilistic Path Hamiltonian Monte Carlo', ['Vu Dinh', 'Arman Bilge', 'Cheng Zhang', 'Frederick A. Matsen IV'], u'2017-02-25', u'Hamiltonian Monte Carlo (HMC) is an efficient and effective means of sampling posterior distributions on Euclidean space, which has been extended to manifolds with boundary. However, some applications require an extension to more general spaces. For example, phylogenetic (evolutionary) trees are defined in terms of both a discrete graph and associated continuous parameters; although one can represent these aspects using a single connected space, this rather complex space is not suitable for existing HMC algorithms. In this paper, we develop Probabilistic Path HMC (PPHMC) as a first step to sampling distributions on spaces with intricate combinatorial structure. We define PPHMC on orthant complexes, show that the resulting Markov chain is ergodic, and provide a promising implementation for the case of phylogenetic trees in open-source software. We also show that a surrogate function to ease the transition across a boundary on which the log-posterior has discontinuous derivatives can greatly improve efficiency.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.07814v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Modeling mechanical interactions in growing populations of rod-shaped bacteria', ['James J. Winkle', 'Oleg Igoshin', 'Matthew R. Bennett', 'Kresimir Josic', 'William Ott'], u'2017-02-26', u"Advances in synthetic biology allow us to engineer bacterial collectives with pre-specified characteristics. However, the behavior of these collectives is difficult to understand, as cellular growth and division as well as extra-cellular fluid flow lead to complex, changing arrangements of cells within the population. To rationally engineer and control the behavior of cell collectives we need theoretical and computational tools to understand their emergent spatiotemporal dynamics. Here, we present an agent-based model that allows growing cells to detect and respond to mechanical interactions. Crucially, our model couples the dynamics of cell growth to the cell's environment: Mechanical constraints can affect cellular growth rate and a cell may alter its behavior in response to these constraints. This coupling links the mechanical forces that influence cell growth and emergent behaviors in cell assemblies. We illustrate our approach by showing how mechanical interactions can impact the dynamics of bacterial collectives growing in microfluidic traps.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.08091v1', ['Quantitative Methods', 'Cell Behavior'], []]
[u'Selection of training populations (and other subset selection problems) with an accelerated genetic algorithm (STPGA: An R-package for selection of training populations with a genetic algorithm)', ['Deniz Akdemir'], u'2017-02-26', u'Optimal subset selection is an important task that has numerous algorithms designed for it and has many application areas. STPGA contains a special genetic algorithm supplemented with a tabu memory property (that keeps track of previously tried solutions and their fitness for a number of iterations), and with a regression of the fitness of the solutions on their coding that is used to form the ideal estimated solution (look ahead property) to search for solutions of generic optimal subset selection problems. I have initially developed the programs for the specific problem of selecting training populations for genomic prediction or association problems, therefore I give discussion of the theory behind optimal design of experiments to explain the default optimization criteria in STPGA, and illustrate the use of the programs in this endeavor. Nevertheless, I have picked a few other areas of application: supervised and unsupervised variable selection based on kernel alignment, supervised variable selection with design criteria, influential observation identification for regression, solving mixed integer quadratic optimization problems, balancing gains and inbreeding in a breeding population. Some of these illustrations pertain new statistical approaches.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.08088v1', ['Quantitative Methods', 'Genomics'], []]
[u'Analysis of Lattice and Continuum Models of Bioactive Porous Media', ['Andrew L. Krause', 'Dmitry Beliaev', 'Robert A. Van Gorder', 'Sarah L. Waters'], u'2017-02-24', u'In the context of tissue engineering, we recently proposed a lattice model for a bioactive porous tissue scaffold in order to understand the role of an active pore network in tissue growth [Lattice and Continuum Modelling of a Bioactive Porous Tissue Scaffold, preprint, 2017]. This model considered the scaffold as an evolving lattice of pores, with coupling between local cell growth in the pores, and fluid flow through the medium. Here we consider a variant of this lattice model as well as a spatially continuous analogue. We analyze these models from a dynamical systems perspective emphasizing qualitative changes in model behaviour as parameters are varied. Depending on the size of the underlying network, we observe oscillations and steady states in cell density exhibited in both models. Steady state behaviour can be described in large cell diffusion regimes via regular asymptotic expansions in the diffusion parameter. We numerically continue steady state solutions into intermediate diffusion regimes, where we observe symmetry-breaking bifurcations to both oscillatory and steady state behaviours that can be explained via local bifurcations, as well as symmetry-preserving oscillations that do not bifurcate from steady states. The spatially continuous analogue of the model only exhibits symmetric steady states and oscillatory solutions, and we conjecture that it is the finite lattice that gives rise to the more complicated symmetry-breaking dynamics. We suggest that the origin of both types of oscillations is a nonlocal reaction-diffusion mechanism mediated by quasi-static fluid flow. Finally we relate these results back to the original modelling question of how network topology influences tissue growth in a bioactive porous tissue scaffold.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.08345v1', ['Tissues and Organs'], []]
[u'Lattice and Continuum Modelling of a Bioactive Porous Tissue Scaffold', ['Andrew L. Krause', 'Dmitry Beliaev', 'Robert A. Van Gorder', 'Sarah L. Waters'], u'2017-02-24', u'A contemporary procedure to grow artificial tissue is to seed cells onto a porous biomaterial scaffold and culture it within a perfusion bioreactor to facilitate the transport of nutrients to growing cells. Typical models of cell growth for tissue engineering applications make use of spatially homogeneous or spatially continuous equations to model cell growth, flow of culture medium, nutrient transport, and their interactions. The network structure of the physical porous scaffold is often incorporated in an averaged way through parameters in these models, either phenomenologically or through techniques like mathematical homogenization. We derive a model on a simple square grid lattice to demonstrate the importance of explicitly modelling the network structure of the porous scaffold, and compare results from this model with those from a modified continuum model from the literature. We capture two-way coupling between cell growth and fluid flow by allowing cells to block pores, and by allowing the shear stress of the fluid to affect cell growth and death. We explore a range of parameters for both models, and demonstrate quantitative and qualitative differences between predictions from each of these approaches, including spatial pattern formation on different timescales and local oscillations in cell density present only in the lattice model. These results suggest that for some parameter regimes, corresponding to specific cell types and scaffold geometries, the lattice model gives qualitatively different model predictions than typical continuum models.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.07711v1', ['Tissues and Organs'], []]
