[u'Multi-Layer Free Energy Perturbation', ['Ying-Chih Chiang', 'Frank Otto'], u'2017-01-30', u'Free energy perturbation (FEP) is frequently used to evaluate the free energy change of a biological process, e.g. the drug binding free energy or the ligand solvation free energy. Due to the sampling inefficiency, FEP is often employed together with computationally expensive enhanced sampling methods. Here we show that this sampling inefficiency, which stems from not accounting for the environmental reorganization, is an inherent property of the single-ensemble ansatz of FEP, and hence simply prolonging the MD simulation can hardly alleviate the problem. Instead, we propose a new, multi-ensemble ansatz -- the multi-layer free energy perturbation (MLFEP), which allows environmental reorganization processes (relaxation) to occur automatically during the MD sampling. Our study paves the way toward a fast but accurate free energy calculation that can be employed in computer-aided drug design.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.08490v1', ['Biomolecules'], []]
[u'Deep Recurrent Neural Network for Protein Function Prediction from Sequence', ['Xueliang Liu'], u'2017-01-28', u'As high-throughput biological sequencing becomes faster and cheaper, the need to extract useful information from sequencing becomes ever more paramount, often limited by low-throughput experimental characterizations. For proteins, accurate prediction of their functions directly from their primary amino-acid sequences has been a long standing challenge. Here, machine learning using artificial recurrent neural networks (RNN) was applied towards classification of protein function directly from primary sequence without sequence alignment, heuristic scoring or feature engineering. The RNN models containing long-short-term-memory (LSTM) units trained on public, annotated datasets from UniProt achieved high performance for in-class prediction of four important protein functions tested, particularly compared to other machine learning algorithms using sequence-derived protein features. RNN models were used also for out-of-class predictions of phylogenetically distinct protein families with similar functions, including proteins of the CRISPR-associated nuclease, ferritin-like iron storage and cytochrome P450 families. Applying the trained RNN models on the partially unannotated UniRef100 database predicted not only candidates validated by existing annotations but also currently unannotated sequences. Some RNN predictions for the ferritin-like iron sequestering function were experimentally validated, even though their sequences differ significantly from known, characterized proteins and from each other and cannot be easily predicted using popular bioinformatics methods. As sequencing and experimental characterization data increases rapidly, the machine-learning approach based on RNN could be useful for discovery and prediction of homologues for a wide range of protein functions.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.08318v1', ['Biomolecules', 'Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'A computational study on synaptic and extrasynaptic effects of astrocyte glutamate uptake on orientation tuning in V1', ['Konstantin Mergenthaler', 'Franziska Oschmann', 'Jeremy Petravicz', 'Dipanjan Roy', 'Mriganka Sur', 'Klaus Obermayer'], u'2017-01-30', u'Astrocytes affect neural transmission by a tight control via glutamate transporters on glutamate concentrations in direct vicinity to the synaptic cleft and by extracellular glutamate. Their relevance for information representation has been supported by in-vivo studies in ferret and mouse primary visual cortex. In ferret blocking glutamate transport pharmacologically broadened tuning curves and enhanced the response at preferred orientation. In knock-out mice with reduced expression of glutamate transporters sharpened tuning was observed. It is however unclear how focal and ambient changes in glutamate concentration affect stimulus representation. Here we develop a computational framework, which allows the investigation of synaptic and extrasynaptic effects of glutamate uptake on orientation tuning in recurrently connected network models with pinwheel-domain (ferret) or salt-and-pepper (mouse) organization. This model proposed that glutamate uptake shapes information representation when it affects the contribution of excitatory and inhibitory neurons to the network activity. Namely, strengthening the contribution of excitatory neurons generally broadens tuning and elevates the response. In contrast, strengthening the contribution of inhibitory neurons can have a sharpening effect on tuning. In addition local representational topology also plays a role: In the pinwheel-domain model effects were strongest within domains - regions where neighboring neurons share preferred orientations. Around pinwheels but also within salt-and-pepper networks the effects were less strong. Our model proposes that the pharmacological intervention in ferret increases the contribution of excitatory cells, while the reduced expression in mouse increases the contribution of inhibitory cells to network activity.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.08663v1', ['Neurons and Cognition', 'Molecular Networks'], []]
[u'A dynamical trichotomy for structured populations experiencing positive density-dependence in stochastic environments', ['Sebastian J. Schreiber'], u'2017-01-29', u'Positive density-dependence occurs when individuals experience increased survivorship, growth, or reproduction with increased population densities. Mechanisms leading to these positive relationships include mate limitation, saturating predation risk, and cooperative breeding and foraging. Individuals within these populations may differ in age, size, or geographic location and thereby structure these populations. Here, I study structured population models accounting for positive density-dependence and environmental stochasticity i.e. random fluctuations in the demographic rates of the population. Under an accessibility assumption (roughly, stochastic fluctuations can lead to populations getting small and large), these models are shown to exhibit a dynamical trichotomy: (i) for all initial conditions, the population goes asymptotically extinct with probability one, (ii) for all positive initial conditions, the population persists and asymptotically exhibits unbounded growth, and (iii) for all positive initial conditions, there is a positive probability of asymptotic extinction and a complementary positive probability of unbounded growth. The main results are illustrated with applications to spatially structured populations with an Allee effect and age-structured populations experiencing mate limitation.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.08443v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'The origin of life seen from the point of view of non-equilibrium statistical mechanics', ['David Ruelle'], u'2017-01-29', u'This note presents a minimal approach to the origin of life, following standard ideas. We pay special attention to the point of view of non-equilibrium statistical mechanics, and in particular to detailed balance. As a consequence we propose a characterization of pre-biological states.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.08388v1', ['Other'], []]
[u'Selecting the Number of States in Hidden Markov Models - Pitfalls, Practical Challenges and Pragmatic Solutions', ['Jennifer Pohle', 'Roland Langrock', 'Floris van Beest', 'Niels Martin Schmidt'], u'2017-01-30', u'We discuss the notorious problem of order selection in hidden Markov models, i.e. of selecting an adequate number of states, highlighting typical pitfalls and practical challenges arising when analyzing real data. Extensive simulations are used to demonstrate the reasons that render order selection particularly challenging in practice despite the conceptual simplicity of the task. In particular, we demonstrate why well-established formal procedures for model selection, such as those based on standard information criteria, tend to favor models with undesirably large numbers of states. We also offer a pragmatic step-by-step approach together with comprehensive advice for how practitioners can implement order selection. Our proposed strategy is illustrated with a real-data case study on muskox movement.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.08673v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'The perceived assortativity of social networks: Methodological problems and solutions', ['David N Fisher', 'Matthew J Silk', 'Daniel W Franks'], u'2017-01-30', u'Networks describe a range of social, biological and technical phenomena. An important property of a network is its degree correlation or assortativity, describing how nodes in the network associate based on their number of connections. Social networks are typically thought to be distinct from other networks in being assortative (possessing positive degree correlations); well-connected individuals associate with other well-connected individuals, and poorly-connected individuals associate with each other. We review the evidence for this in the literature and find that, while social networks are more assortative than non-social networks, only when they are built using group-based methods do they tend to be positively assortative. Non-social networks tend to be disassortative. We go on to show that connecting individuals due to shared membership of a group, a commonly used method, biases towards assortativity unless a large enough number of censuses of the network are taken. We present a number of solutions to overcoming this bias by drawing on advances in sociological and biological fields. Adoption of these methods across all fields can greatly enhance our understanding of social networks and networks in general.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.08671v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Deep learning based subdivision approach for large scale macromolecules structure recovery from electron cryo tomograms', ['Min Xu', 'Xiaoqi Chai', 'Hariank Muthakana', 'Xiaodan Liang', 'Ge Yang', 'Tzviya Zeev-Ben-Mordehai', 'Eric Xing'], u'2017-01-29', u'Motivation: Cellular Electron CryoTomography (CECT) enables 3D visualization of cellular organization at near-native state and in sub-molecular resolution, making it a powerful tool for analyzing structures of macromolecular complexes and their spatial organizations inside single cells. However, high degree of structural complexity together with practical imaging limitations make the systematic de novo discovery of structures within cells challenging. It would likely require averaging and classifying millions of subtomograms potentially containing hundreds of highly heterogeneous structural classes. Although it is no longer difficult to acquire CECT data containing such amount of subtomograms due to advances in data acquisition automation, existing computational approaches have very limited scalability or discrimination ability, making them incapable of processing such amount of data. Results: To complement existing approaches, in this paper we propose a new approach for subdividing subtomograms into smaller but relatively homogeneous subsets. The structures in these subsets can then be separately recovered using existing computation intensive methods. Our approach is based on supervised structural feature extraction using deep learning, in combination with unsupervised clustering and reference-free classification. Our experiments show that, compared to existing unsupervised rotation invariant feature and pose-normalization based approaches, our new approach achieves significant improvements in both discrimination ability and scalability. More importantly, our new approach is able to discover new structural classes and recover structures that do not exist in training data.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.08404v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Energy from food', ['David W. L. Hukins'], u'2017-01-30', u'Expressing the energy content of food as the heat energy released by its combustion is potentially misleading. Food is used to produce adenosine triphosphate (ATP). The free energy of conversion of ATP into adenosine diphosphate is used directly for processes such as muscular contraction, without the need for intermediate heat production. The number of ATP molecules produced depends on the task being performed and the fitness level of the person performing the task, since both affect the extent to which aerobic and anaerobic respiration are involved. The digestion and metabolism of soluble carbohydrates, complex carbohydrates and fats requires production of different enzymes. The information required to assess whether this affects the net ATP production by these different types of food does not appear to be available.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.08664v1', ['Tissues and Organs'], []]
