[u'Mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation: Debunking the concepts of electron transport chain, proton pumps, chemiosmosis and rotary ATP synthesis', ['Kelath Murali Manoj'], u'2017-03-16', u'Herein (the first part of my work), I debunk the long-standing hypotheses that explain mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation. Simple calculations point out that mitochondria are highly proton-deficient microcosms and therefore, elaborate proton pump machinery are not tenable. Further, other elements like the elaborate electron transport chain, chemiosmosis, rotary ATP synthesis, etc. are also critically evaluated to point out that such complicated systems are non-viable. The communication necessitates a new explanatory paradigm for cellular respiration. In the second part of my work, I have put forward a viable alternative explanatory paradigm for mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.05826v1', ['Biomolecules'], []]
[u'Frequency-based brain networks: From a multiplex framework to a full multilayer description', ['Javier M. Buldu', 'Mason A. Porter'], u'2017-03-17', u'We explore how to study dynamical interactions between brain regions using functional multilayer networks whose layers represent the different frequency bands at which a brain operates. Specifically, we investigate the consequences of considering the brain as a multilayer network in which all brain regions can interact with each other at different frequency bands, instead of as a multiplex network, in which interactions between different frequency bands are only allowed within each brain region and not between them. We study the second smallest eigenvalue of the combinatorial supra-Laplacian matrix of the multilayer network in detail, and we thereby show that the heterogeneity of interlayer edges and, especially, the fraction of missing edges crucially modify the spectral properties of the multilayer network. We illustrate our results with both synthetic network models and real data sets obtained from resting state magnetoencephalography. Our work demonstrates an important issue in the construction of frequency-based multilayer brain networks.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.06091v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Pattern representation and recognition with accelerated analog neuromorphic systems', ['Mihai A. Petrovici', 'Sebastian Schmitt', 'Johann Klahn', 'David Stockel', 'Anna Schroeder', 'Guillaume Bellec', 'Johannes Bill', 'Oliver Breitwieser', 'Ilja Bytschok', 'Andreas Grubl', 'Maurice Guttler', 'Andreas Hartel', 'Stephan Hartmann', 'Dan Husmann', 'Kai Husmann', 'Sebastian Jeltsch', 'Vitali Karasenko', 'Mitja Kleider', 'Christoph Koke', 'Alexander Kononov', 'Christian Mauch', 'Paul Muller', 'Johannes Partzsch', 'Thomas Pfeil', 'Stefan Schiefer', 'Stefan Scholze', 'Anand Subramoney', 'Vasilis Thanasoulis', 'Bernhard Vogginger', 'Robert Legenstein', 'Wolfgang Maass', 'Rene Schuffny', 'Christian Mayr', 'Johannes Schemmel', 'Karlheinz Meier'], u'2017-03-17', u"Despite being originally inspired by the central nervous system, artificial neural networks have diverged from their biological archetypes as they have been remodeled to fit particular tasks. In this paper, we review several possibilites to reverse map these architectures to biologically more realistic spiking networks with the aim of emulating them on fast, low-power neuromorphic hardware. Since many of these devices employ analog components, which cannot be perfectly controlled, finding ways to compensate for the resulting effects represents a key challenge. Here, we discuss three different strategies to address this problem: the addition of auxiliary network components for stabilizing activity, the utilization of inherently robust architectures and a training method for hardware-emulated networks that functions without perfect knowledge of the system's dynamics and parameters. For all three scenarios, we corroborate our theoretical considerations with experimental results on accelerated analog neuromorphic platforms.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.06043v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Autocatalytic networks in cognition and the origin of culture', ['Liane Gabora', 'Mike Steel'], u'2017-03-17', u"It has been proposed that cultural evolution was made possible by a cognitive transition brought about by onset of the capacity for self-triggered recall and rehearsal. Here we develop a novel idea that models of collectively autocatalytic networks, developed for understanding the origin and organization of life, may also help explain the origin of the kind of cognitive structure that makes cultural evolution possible. In our setting, mental representations (for example, memories, concepts, ideas) play the role of 'molecules', and 'reactions' involve the evoking of one representation by another through remindings, associations, and stimuli. In the 'episodic mind', representations are so coarse-grained (encode too few properties) that such reactions are catalyzed only by external stimuli. As cranial capacity increased, representations became more fine-grained (encoded more features), allowing them to act as catalysts, leading to streams of thought. At this point, the mind could combine representations and adapt them to specific needs and situations, and thereby contribute to cultural evolution. In this paper, we propose and study a simple and explicit cognitive model that gives rise naturally to autocatylatic networks, and thereby provides a possible mechanism for the transition from a pre-cultural episodic mind to a mimetic mind.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.05917v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'The joint influence of competition and mutualism on the biodiversity of mutualistic ecosystems', ['Carlos Gracia-Lazaro', 'Laura Hernandez', 'Javier Borge-Holthoefer', 'Yamir Moreno'], u'2017-03-17', u'Relations among species in ecosystems can be represented by complex networks where both negative (competition) and positive (mutualism) interactions are concurrently present. Recently, it has been shown that many ecosystems can be cast into mutualistic networks, and that nestedness reduces effective inter-species competition, thus facilitating mutually beneficial interactions and increasing the number of coexisting species or the biodiversity. However, current approaches neglect the structure of inter-species competition by adopting a mean-field perspective that does not deal with competitive interactions properly. Here, we introduce a framework based on the concept of multilayer networks, which naturally accounts for both mutualism and competition. Hence, we abandon the mean field hypothesis and show, through a dynamical population model and numerical simulations, that there is an intricate relation between competition and mutualism. Specifically, we show that when all interactions are taken into account, mutualism does not have the same consequences on the evolution of specialist and generalist species. This leads to a non-trivial profile of biodiversity in the parameter space of competition and mutualism. Our findings emphasize how the simultaneous consideration of positive and negative interactions can contribute to our understanding of the delicate trade-offs between topology and biodiversity in ecosystems and call for a reconsideration of previous findings in theoretical ecology, as they may affect the structural and dynamical stability of mutualistic systems.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.06122v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Promoting cooperation by preventing exploitation: The role of network structure', ['Zoran Utkovski', 'Viktor Stojkoski', 'Lasko Basnarkov', 'Ljupco Kocarev'], u'2017-03-17', u'We develop a simple mechanism of anonymous network interactions identified as a form of generalized reciprocity - a concept organized around the premise "help anyone if helped by someone". The mechanism protects nodes from exploitation by other nodes, in contrast to other mechanisms based on generalized reciprocity which leave the nodes vulnerable to exploitation due to anonymity of donors and receivers. We demonstrate that the network propensity for cooperation is determined by a network centrality measure here referred to as neighborhood importance index. We address different random graph settings and discuss relevant implications to natural and artificial systems.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.05951v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Species Trees Forcing Parsimony to Fail', ['Vikenty Mikheev', 'Serge E. Miheev'], u'2017-03-16', u'The fact that Parsimony may fail is not new. However, here we proved that no mater of what topology the true 9-taxon and greater species tree is the only thing you need to fail Parsimony is to have in this tree three consecutive edges with lengths of some proportions. Obviously, the probability to meet these lengths is growing in general with the size of species tree. Therefore, Parsimony can be applied only when one knows for sure that the described lengths cannot be met in the tree.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.05810v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'The dose-dense principle in chemotherapy', ['Alvaro G. Lopez', 'Kelly C. Iarosz', 'Antonio M. Batista', 'Jesus M. Seoane', 'Ricardo L. Viana', 'Miguel A. F. Sanjuan'], u'2017-03-16', u'Chemotherapy is a class of cancer treatment that uses drugs to kill cancer cells. A typical chemotherapeutic protocol consists of several drugs delivered in cycles of three weeks. We present mathematical analyses demonstrating the existence of a minimum time between cycles of chemotherapy for a protocol to be effective. A mathematical equation is derived, which relates such a minimum time with the variables that govern the kinetics of the tumor and those characterizing the chemotherapeutic treatment. Our results suggest that there are compelling arguments supporting the use of dose-dense protocols. Finally, we discuss the limitations of these protocols and suggest an alternative.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.06071v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Murburn concept: A facile explanation for oxygen-centered cellular respiration', ['Kelath Murali Manoj'], u'2017-03-16', u"Via a concomitant communication (the first part of my work), I have conclusively debunked the prevailing explanations for mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation and established the need for a novel rationale to account for the reaction paradigm. Towards the same, murburn concept is hereby floated as a viable explanation (in the second part of my work). It is proposed that the inner mitochondrial membrane (harboring the various metal and flavin enzyme complexes) serves as means to confine and stabilize radical reactions, which effectively couple and bring about ATP synthesis in the proton-deficient microcosm. The proposed scheme is un-ordered and favored by Ockham's razor and evolutionary perspectives. Murburn concept is a paradigm-shift in biochemistry because it advocates that diffusible reactive (oxygen) species are mainstay of routine cellular metabolic process within the mitochondria.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.05827v1', ['Subcellular Processes'], []]
