[u'Systematic Quantum Mechanical Region Determination in QM/MM Simulation', ['Maria Karelina', 'Heather J. Kulik'], u'2017-01-02', u'Hybrid quantum mechanical-molecular mechanical (QM/MM) simulations are widely used in enzyme simulation. Over ten convergence studies of QM/MM methods have revealed over the past several years that key energetic and structural properties approach asymptotic limits with only very large (ca. 500-1000 atom) QM regions. This slow convergence has been observed to be due in part to significant charge transfer between the core active site and surrounding protein environment, which cannot be addressed by improvement of MM force fields or the embedding method employed within QM/MM. Given this slow convergence, it becomes essential to identify strategies for the most atom-economical determination of optimal QM regions and to gain insight into the crucial interactions captured only in large QM regions. Here, we extend and develop two methods for quantitative determination of QM regions. First, in the charge shift analysis (CSA) method, we probe the reorganization of electron density when core active site residues are removed completely, as determined by large-QM region QM/MM calculations. Second, we introduce the highly-parallelizable Fukui shift analysis (FSA), which identifies how core/substrate frontier states are altered by the presence of an additional QM residue on smaller initial QM regions. We demonstrate that the FSA and CSA approaches are complementary and consistent on three test case enzymes: catechol O-methyltransferase, cytochrome P450cam, and hen eggwhite lysozyme. We also introduce validation strategies and test sensitivities of the two methods to geometric structure, basis set size, and electronic structure methodology. Both methods represent promising approaches for the systematic, unbiased determination of quantum mechanical effects in enzymes and large systems that necessitate multi-scale modeling.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.00427v1', ['Biomolecules'], []]
[u"Density-based clustering: A 'landscape view' of multi-channel neural data for inference and dynamic complexity analysis", ['Gabriel Baglietto', 'Guido Gigante', 'Paolo Del Giudice'], u'2017-01-02', u"Simultaneous recordings from N electrodes generate N-dimensional time series that call for efficient representations to expose relevant aspects of the underlying dynamics. Binning the time series defines neural activity vectors that populate the N-dimensional space as a density distribution, especially informative when the neural dynamics performs a noisy path through metastable states (often a case of interest in neuroscience); this makes clustering in the N-dimensional space a natural choice. We apply a variant of the 'mean-shift' algorithm to perform such clustering, and validate it on an Hopfield network in the glassy phase, in which metastable states are uncorrelated from memory attractors. The neural states identified as clusters' centroids are then used to define a parsimonious parametrization of the synaptic matrix, which allows a significant improvement in inferring the synaptic couplings from neural activities. We next consider the more realistic case of a multi-modular spiking network, with spike-frequency adaptation (SFA) inducing history-dependent effects; we develop a procedure, inspired by Boltzmann learning but extending its domain of application, to learn inter-module synaptic couplings so that the spiking network reproduces a prescribed pattern of spatial correlations. After clustering the activity generated by multi-modular spiking networks, we represent their multi-dimensional dynamics as the symbolic sequence of the clusters' centroids, which naturally lends itself to complexity estimates that provide information on memory effects like those induced by SFA. To obtain a relative complexity measure we compare the Lempel-Ziv complexity of the actual centroid sequence to the one of Markov processes sharing the same transition probabilities between centroids; as an illustration, we show that the dependence of such relative complexity on the time scale of SFA.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.00390v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u"Loss of inter-frequency brain hubs in Alzheimer's disease", ['Jeremy Guillon', 'Yohan Attal', 'Olivier Colliot', 'Valentina La Corte', 'Bruno Dubois', 'Denis Schwartz', 'Mario Chavez', 'Fabrizio De Vico Fallani'], u'2016-12-31', u"Alzheimer's disease (AD) causes alterations of brain network structure and function. The latter consists of connectivity changes between oscillatory processes at different frequency channels. We proposed a multi-layer network approach to analyze multiple-frequency brain networks inferred from magnetoencephalographic recordings during resting-states in AD subjects and age-matched controls. We used the multi-participation coefficient ($MPC$) to quantify the tendency of brain regions to facilitate information propagation across different frequencies. Main results showed that regional connectivity of AD subjects was abnormally distributed across frequency bands as compared to controls. This loss of inter-frequency centrality was mainly localized in association areas exhibiting fewer interactions with higher sensory rhythms ($>20$ Hz) and more connections to lower attentional ones ($<13$ Hz). $MPC$ values significantly correlated with memory impairment of AD subjects, as measured by the total recall score. Most predictive regions belonged to components of the default-mode network that are typically affected by atrophy, metabolism disruption and amyloid-$\\beta$ deposition. We evaluated the diagnostic power of the MPC and we showed that it led to increased classification accuracy ($78.39\\%$) and sensitivity ($91.11\\%$). These findings suggest that multi-layer network frameworks reveal complementary information that can be used to identify multi-frequency neural mechanisms of brain diseases.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.00096v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'A computational investigation of the relationships between single-neuron and network dynamics in the cerebral cortex', ['Stefano Cavallari'], u'2016-12-31', u'Functions of brain areas in complex animals are believed to rely on the dynamics of networks of neurons rather than on single neurons. On the other hand, the network dynamics reflect and arise from the integration and coordination of the activity of populations of single neurons. Understanding how single-neurons and neural-circuits dynamics complement each other to produce brain functions is thus of paramount importance. LFPs and EEGs are good indicators of the dynamics of mesoscopic and macroscopic populations of neurons, while microscopic-level activities can be documented by measuring the membrane potential, the synaptic currents or the spiking activity of individual neurons. In this thesis we develop mathematical modelling and mathematical analysis tools that can help the interpretation of joint measures of neural activity at microscopic and mesoscopic or macroscopic scales. In particular, we develop network models of recurrent cortical circuits that can clarify the impact of several aspects of single-neuron (i.e., microscopic-level) dynamics on the activity of the whole neural population (as measured by LFP). We then develop statistical tools to characterize the relationship between the action potential firing of single neurons and mass signals. We apply these latter analysis techniques to joint recordings of the firing activity of individual cell-type identified neurons and mesoscopic (i.e., LFP) and macroscopic (i.e., EEG) signals in the mouse neocortex. We identified several general aspects of the relationship between cell-specific neural firing and mass circuit activity, providing for example general and robust mathematical rules which infer single-neuron firing activity from mass measures such as the LFP and the EEG.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.00082v1', ['Neurons and Cognition', 'Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Group chasing tactics: how to catch a faster prey?', ['Milan Janosov', 'Csaba Viragh', 'Gabor Vasarhelyi', 'Tamas Vicsek'], u'2017-01-01', u"We propose a bio-inspired, agent-based approach to describe the natural phenomenon of group chasing in both two and three dimensions. Using a set of local interaction rules we created a continuous-space and discrete-time model with time delay, external noise and limited acceleration. We implemented a unique collective chasing strategy, optimized its parameters and studied its properties when chasing a much faster, erratic escaper. We show that collective chasing strategies can significantly enhance the chasers' success rate. Our realistic approach handles group chasing within closed, soft boundaries - contrasting most of those published in the literature with periodic ones -- and resembles several properties of pursuits observed in nature, such as the emergent encircling or the escaper's zigzag motion.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.00284v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Challenges ahead Electron Microscopy for Structural Biology from the Image Processing point of view', ['Carlos Oscar S. Sorzano', 'Jose Maria Carazo'], u'2017-01-02', u'Since the introduction of Direct Electron Detectors (DEDs), the resolution and range of macromolecules amenable to this technique has significantly widened, generating a broad interest that explains the well over a dozen reviews in top journal in the last two years. Similarly, the number of job offers to lead EM groups and/or coordinate EM facilities has exploded, and FEI (the main microscope manufacturer for Life Sciences) has received more than 100 orders of high-end electron microscopes by summer 2016. Strategic corporate movements are also happening, with very big players entering the market through key acquisitions (Thermo Fisher has recently bought FEI for \\$4.2B), partly attracted by new Pharma interest in the field, now perceived to be in a position to impact structure-based drug design. The scientific perspectives are indeed extremely positive but, in these moments of well-founded generalized optimists, we want to make a reflection on some of the hurdles ahead us, since they certainly exist and they indeed limit the informational content of cryoEM projects. Here we focus on image processing aspects, particularly in the so-called area of Single Particle Analysis, discussing some of the current resolution and high-throughput limiting factors.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.00326v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'A modeling and simulation language for biological cells with coupled mechanical and chemical processes', ['Endre Somogyi', 'James A. Glazier'], u'2017-01-02', u'Biological cells are the preeminent active matter. Cells sense and respond to mechanical, chemical or electrical environmental stimuli with a range of behaviors, including dynamic changes in morphology and mechanical properties, changes in chemical uptake or secretion, cell differentiation, proliferation, death, or migration. Modeling and simulation of such dynamic phenomena poses a number of computational challenges. A modeling language must first be able to naturally represent both the complex intra and extra-cellular spatial structures, and their coupled dynamics of mechanical, chemical and electrical objects and processes. In order to be useful to domain experts, a modeling language should be based on mechanical and chemical constructs native to the problem domain. A compiler must then be able to generate an executable model from this physically motivated description. Finally, an executable model must efficiently calculate the time evolution of such dynamic and inhomogeneous phenomena. We present a spatial hybrid systems modeling language, compiler and mesh-free Lagrangian based simulation engine which will enable domain experts to define models using natural, biologically motivated constructs and to simulate time evolution of coupled cellular, mechanical and chemical processes acting on a time varying number of cells and their environment.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.00317v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Data-Driven Forecast of Dengue Outbreaks in Brazil: A Critical Assessment of Climate Conditions for Different Capitals', ['Lucas Stolerman', 'Pedro Maia', 'J. Nathan Kutz'], u'2016-12-31', u'Local climate conditions play a major role in the development of the mosquito population responsible for transmitting Dengue Fever. Since the {\\em Aedes Aegypti} mosquito is also a primary vector for the recent Zika and Chikungunya epidemics across the Americas, a detailed monitoring of periods with favorable climate conditions for mosquito profusion may improve the timing of vector-control efforts and other urgent public health strategies. We apply dimensionality reduction techniques and machine-learning algorithms to climate time series data and analyze their connection to the occurrence of Dengue outbreaks for seven major cities in Brazil. Specifically, we have identified two key variables and a period during the annual cycle that are highly predictive of epidemic outbreaks. The key variables are the frequency of precipitation and temperature during an approximately two month window of the winter season preceding the outbreak. Thus simple climate signatures may be influencing Dengue outbreaks even months before their occurrence. Some of the more challenging datasets required usage of compressive-sensing procedures to estimate missing entries for temperature and precipitation records. Our results indicate that each Brazilian capital considered has a unique frequency of precipitation and temperature signature in the winter preceding a Dengue outbreak. Such climate contributions on vector populations are key factors in dengue dynamics which could lead to more accurate prediction models and early warning systems. Finally, we show that critical temperature and precipitation signatures may vary significantly from city to city, suggesting that the interplay between climate variables and dengue outbreaks is more complex than generally appreciated.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.00166v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Learning Weighted Association Rules in Human Phenotype Ontology', ['Pietro Hiram Guzzi', 'Giuseppe Agapito', 'Marianna Milano', 'Mario Cannataro'], u'2016-12-31', u'The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) is a structured repository of concepts (HPO Terms) that are associated to one or more diseases. The process of association is referred to as annotation. The relevance and the specificity of both HPO terms and annotations are evaluated by a measure defined as Information Content (IC). The analysis of annotated data is thus an important challenge for bioinformatics. There exist different approaches of analysis. From those, the use of Association Rules (AR) may provide useful knowledge, and it has been used in some applications, e.g. improving the quality of annotations. Nevertheless classical association rules algorithms do not take into account the source of annotation nor the importance yielding to the generation of candidate rules with low IC. This paper presents HPO-Miner (Human Phenotype Ontology-based Weighted Association Rules) a methodology for extracting Weighted Association Rules. HPO-Miner can extract relevant rules from a biological point of view. A case study on using of HPO-Miner on publicly available HPO annotation datasets is used to demonstrate the effectiveness of our methodology.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.00077v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Allee dynamics: growth, extinction and range expansion', ['Indrani Bose', 'Mainak Pal', 'Chiranjit Karmakar'], u'2017-01-02', u'In population biology, the Allee dynamics refer to negative growth rates below a critical population density. In this Letter, we study a reaction-diffusion (RD) model of population growth and dispersion in one dimension, which incorporates the Allee effect in both the growth and mortality rates. In the absence of diffusion, the bifurcation diagram displays regions of both finite population density and zero population density, i.e., extinction. The early signatures of the transition to extinction at a bifurcation point are computed in the presence of additive noise. For the full RD model, the existence of travelling wave solutions of the population density is demonstrated. The parameter regimes in which the travelling wave advances (range expansion) and retreats are identified. In the weak Allee regime, the transition from the pushed to the pulled wave is shown as a function of the mortality rate constant. The results obtained are in agreement with the recent experimental observations on budding yeast populations.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.00330v1', ['Cell Behavior'], []]
[u'HSEARCH: fast and accurate protein sequence motif search and clustering', ['Haifeng Chen', 'Ting Chen'], u'2017-01-02', u'Protein motifs are conserved fragments occurred frequently in protein sequences. They have significant functions, such as active site of an enzyme. Search and clustering protein sequence motifs are computational intensive. Most existing methods are not fast enough to analyze large data sets for motif finding or achieve low accuracy for motif clustering. We present a new protein sequence motif finding and clustering algorithm, called HSEARCH. It converts fixed length protein sequences to data points in high dimensional space, and applies locality-sensitive hashing to fast search homologous protein sequences for a motif. HSEARCH is significantly faster than the brute force algorithm for protein motif finding and achieves high accuracy for protein motif clustering.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.00452v1', ['Genomics'], []]
[u'A Computational Approach to Finding RNA Tertiary Motifs in Genomic Sequences', ['Kevin Byron', 'Jason T. L. Wang'], u'2017-01-02', u'Motif finding in DNA, RNA and proteins plays an important role in life science research. Recent patents concerning motif finding in the biomolecular data are recorded in the DNA Patent Database which serves as a resource for policy makers and members of the general public interested in fields like genomics, genetics and biotechnology. In this paper we present a computational approach to mining for RNA tertiary motifs in genomic sequences. Specifically we describe a method, named CSminer, for finding RNA coaxial helical stackings in genomes. A coaxial helical stacking occurs in an RNA tertiary structure where two separate helical elements form a pseudocontiguous helix and provides thermodynamic stability to the molecule as a whole. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.00435v1', ['Genomics'], []]
