[u'SCALPEL: Extracting Neurons from Calcium Imaging Data', ['Ashley Petersen', 'Noah Simon', 'Daniela Witten'], u'2017-03-20', u'In the past few years, new technologies in the field of neuroscience have made it possible to simultaneously image activity in large populations of neurons at cellular resolution in behaving animals. In mid-2016, a huge repository of this so-called "calcium imaging" data was made publicly-available. The availability of this large-scale data resource opens the door to a host of scientific questions, for which new statistical methods must be developed. In this paper, we consider the first step in the analysis of calcium imaging data: namely, identifying the neurons in a calcium imaging video. We propose a dictionary learning approach for this task. First, we perform image segmentation to develop a dictionary containing a huge number of candidate neurons. Next, we refine the dictionary using clustering. Finally, we apply the dictionary in order to select neurons and estimate their corresponding activity over time, using a sparse group lasso optimization problem. We apply our proposal to three calcium imaging data sets. Our proposed approach is implemented in the R package scalpel, which is available on CRAN.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.06946v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'On the predictability of infectious disease outbreaks', ['Samuel V. Scarpino', 'Giovanni Petri'], u'2017-03-21', u'Infectious disease outbreaks recapitulate biology: they emerge from the multi-level interaction of hosts, pathogens, and their shared environment. As a result, predicting when, where, and how far diseases will spread requires a complex systems approach to modeling. Recent studies have demonstrated that predicting different components of outbreaks--e.g., the expected number of cases, pace and tempo of cases needing treatment, importation probability etc.--is feasible. Therefore, advancing both the science and practice of disease forecasting now requires testing for the presence of fundamental limits to outbreak prediction. To investigate the question of outbreak prediction, we study the information theoretic limits to forecasting across a broad set of infectious diseases using permutation entropy as a model independent measure of predictability. Studying the predictability of a diverse collection of historical outbreaks--including, gonorrhea, influenza, Zika, measles, polio, whooping cough, and mumps--we identify a fundamental entropy barrier for time series forecasting. However, we find that for most diseases this barrier to prediction is often well beyond the time scale of single outbreaks, implying prediction is likely to succeed. We also find that the forecast horizon varies by disease and demonstrate that both shifting model structures and social network heterogeneity are the most likely mechanisms for the observed differences in predictability across contagions. Our results highlight the importance of moving beyond time series forecasting, by embracing dynamic modeling approaches to prediction and suggest challenges for performing model selection across long disease time series. We further anticipate that our findings will contribute to the rapidly growing field of epidemiological forecasting and may relate more broadly to the predictability of complex adaptive systems.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.07317v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Structural Derivative Model for Tissue Radiation Response', ['Jose Weberszpil', 'Oscar Sotolongo-Costa'], u'2017-03-21', u'By means of a recently-proposed metric or structural derivative, called scale-q-derivative approach, we formulate differential equation that models the cell death by a radiation exposure in tumor treatments. The considered independent variable here is the absorbed radiation dose D instead of usual time. The survival factor, Fs, for radiation damaged cell obtained here is in agreement with the literature on the maximum entropy principle, as it was recently shown and also exhibits an excellent agreement with the experimental data. Moreover, the well-known linear and quadratic models are obtained. With this approach, we give a step forward and suggest other expressions for survival factors that are dependent on the complex tumor structure.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.07205v1', ['Tissues and Organs'], []]
[u'Interference of two co-directional exclusion processes in the presence of a static bottleneck: a biologically motivated model', ['Bhavya Mishra', 'Debashish Chowdhury'], u'2017-03-21', u'We develope a two-species exclusion process with a distinct pair of entry and exit sites for each species of rigid rods. The relatively slower forward stepping of the rods in an extended bottleneck region, located in between the two entry sites, controls the extent of interference of the co-directional flow of the two species of rods. The relative positions of the sites of entry of the two species of rods with respect to the location of the bottleneck are motivated by a biological phenomenon. However, the primary focus of the study here is to explore the effects of the interference of the flow of the two species of rods on their spatio-temporal organization and the regulations of this interference by the extended bottleneck. By a combination of mean-field theory and computer simulation we calculate the flux of both species of rods and their density profiles as well as the composite phase diagrams of the system. If the bottleneck is sufficiently stringent some of the phases become practically unrealizable although not ruled out on the basis of any fundamental physical principle. Moreover the extent of suppression of flow of the downstream entrants by the flow of the upstream entrants can also be regulated by the strength of the bottleneck. We speculate on the possible implications of the results in the context of the biological phenomenon that motivated the formulation of the theoretical model.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.07333v1', ['Subcellular Processes'], []]
