[u'Collective Stochastic Coherence in Recurrent Neuronal Networks', ['Belen Sancristobal', 'Beatriz Rebollo', 'Pol Boada', 'Maria V. Sanchez-Vives', 'Jordi Garcia-Ojalvo'], u'2017-01-03', u'Recurrent networks of dynamic elements frequently exhibit emergent collective oscillations, which can display substantial regularity even when the individual elements are considerably noisy. How noise-induced dynamics at the local level coexists with regular oscillations at the global level is still unclear. Here we show that a combination of stochastic recurrence-based initiation with deterministic refractoriness in an excitable network can reconcile these two features, leading to maximum collective coherence for an intermediate noise level. We report this behavior in the slow oscillation regime exhibited by a cerebral cortex network under dynamical conditions resembling slow-wave sleep and anaesthesia. Computational analysis of a biologically realistic network model reveals that an intermediate level of background noise leads to quasi-regular dynamics. We verify this prediction experimentally in cortical slices subject to varying amounts of extracellular potassium, which modulates neuronal excitability and thus synaptic noise. The model also predicts that this effectively regular state should exhibit noise-induced memory of the spatial propagation profile of the collective oscillations, which is also verified experimentally. Taken together, these results allow us to construe the enhanced regularity observed experimentally in the brain as an instance of collective stochastic coherence.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.00765v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Sign-changes as a universal concept in first-passage time calculations', ['Wilhelm Braun', 'Rudiger Thul'], u'2017-01-03', u'First-passage time problems are ubiquitous across many fields of study including transport processes in semiconductors and biological synapses, evolutionary game theory and percolation. Despite their prominence, first-passage time calculations have proven to be particularly challenging. Analytical results to date have often been obtained under strong conditions, leaving most of the exploration of first-passage time problems to direct numerical computations. Here we present an analytical approach that allows the derivation of first-passage time distributions for the wide class of non-differentiable Gaussian processes. We demonstrate that the concept of sign changes naturally generalises the common practice of counting crossings to determine first-passage events. Our method works across a wide range of time-dependent boundaries and noise strengths thus alleviating common hurdles in first-passage time calculations.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.00648v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Non-genetic diversity modulates population performance', ['Adam James Waite', 'Nicholas W. Frankel', 'Yann S. Dufour', 'Jessica F. Johnston', 'Junjiajia Long', 'Thierry Emonet'], u'2017-01-03', u'Biological functions are typically performed by groups of cells that express predominantly the same genes, yet display a continuum of phenotypes. While it is known how one genotype can generate such non-genetic diversity, it remains unclear how different phenotypes contribute to the performance of biological function at the population level. We developed a microfluidic device to simultaneously measure the phenotype and chemotactic performance of tens of thousands of individual, freely-swimming Escherichia coli as they climbed a gradient of attractant. We discovered that spatial structure spontaneously emerged from initially well-mixed wild type populations due to non-genetic diversity. By manipulating the expression of key chemotaxis proteins, we established a causal relationship between protein expression, non- genetic diversity, and performance that was theoretically predicted. This approach generated a complete phenotype-to-performance map, in which we found a nonlinear regime. We used this map to demonstrate how changing the shape of a phenotypic distribution can have as large of an effect on collective performance as changing the mean phenotype, suggesting that selection could act on both during the process of adaptation.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.00732v1', ['Populations and Evolution', 'Cell Behavior'], []]
[u'Bet-hedging against demographic variations', ['BingKan Xue', 'Stanislas Leibler'], u'2017-01-02', u'Biological species have to cope with stochastic variations in both the external environment and the internal population dynamics. Theoretical studies and laboratory experiments suggest that population diversification could be an effective bet-hedging strategy for adaptation to temporally varying environments. Here we show that bet-hedging can also be effective against demographic fluctuations that cause extinction of local populations. A species can maximize its overall abundance in the long term by diversifying into coexisting subpopulations of both "fast-growing" and "better-surviving" individuals. Our model generalizes statistical physics models of birth-death processes to incorporate migration between multiple populations and variation of local environments. The results show that organisms can use bet-hedging as a common defense mechanism against different types of uncertainties in population growth.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.00523v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Inverse Protein Folding Problem via Quadratic Programming', ['Andrii Riazanov', 'Mikhail Karasikov', 'Sergei Grudinin'], u'2017-01-03', u'This paper presents a method of reconstruction a primary structure of a protein that folds into a given geometrical shape. This method predicts the primary structure of a protein and restores its linear sequence of amino acids in the polypeptide chain using the tertiary structure of a molecule. Unknown amino acids are determined according to the principle of energy minimization. This study represents inverse folding problem as a quadratic optimization problem and uses different relaxation techniques to reduce it to the problem of convex optimizations. Computational experiment compares the quality of these approaches on real protein structures.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.00673v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], [u'MIPT, Skoltech', u'NANO-D']]
[u'Versatility of nodal affiliation to communities', ['Maxwell Shinn', 'Rafael Romero-Garcia', 'Jakob Seidlitz', 'Frantisek Vasa', 'Petra E. Vertes', 'Edward Bullmore'], u'2017-01-03', u'Graph theoretical analysis of the community structure of networks attempts to identify the communities (or modules) to which each node affiliates. However, this is in most cases an ill-posed problem, as the affiliation of a node to a single community is often ambiguous. Previous solutions have attempted to identify all of the communities to which each node affiliates. Instead of taking this approach, we introduce versatility, $V$, as a novel metric of nodal affiliation: $V \\sim 0$ means that a node is consistently assigned to a specific community; $V \\gg 0$ means it is inconsistently assigned to different communities. Versatility works in conjunction with existing community detection algorithms, and it satisfies many theoretically desirable properties in idealised networks designed to maximise ambiguity of modular decomposition. The local minima of global mean versatility identified the resolution parameters of a hierarchical community detection algorithm that least ambiguously decomposed the community structure of a social (karate club) network and the mouse brain connectome. Our results suggest that nodal versatility is useful in quantifying the inherent ambiguity of modular decomposition.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.00568v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'A Molecular Implementation of the Least Mean Squares Estimator', ['Christoph Zechner', 'Mustafa Khammash'], u'2017-01-03', u'In order to function reliably, synthetic molecular circuits require mechanisms that allow them to adapt to environmental disturbances. Least mean squares (LMS) schemes, such as commonly encountered in signal processing and control, provide a powerful means to accomplish that goal. In this paper we show how the traditional LMS algorithm can be implemented at the molecular level using only a few elementary biomolecular reactions. We demonstrate our approach using several simulation studies and discuss its relevance to synthetic biology.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.00602v1', ['Molecular Networks'], []]
[u'Interrogating the Escherichia coli cell cycle by cell dimension perturbations', ['Hai Zheng', 'Po-Yi Ho', 'Meiling Jiang', 'Bin Tang', 'Weirong Liu', 'Dengjin Li', 'Xuefeng Yu', 'Nancy E. Kleckner', 'Ariel Amir', 'Chenli Liu'], u'2017-01-03', u"Bacteria tightly regulate and coordinate the various events in their cell cycles to duplicate themselves accurately and to control their cell sizes. Growth of Escherichia coli, in particular, follows a relation known as Schaechter 's growth law. This law says that the average cell volume scales exponentially with growth rate, with a scaling exponent equal to the time from initiation of a round of DNA replication to the cell division at which the corresponding sister chromosomes segregate. Here, we sought to test the robustness of the growth law to systematic perturbations in cell dimensions achieved by varying the expression levels of mreB and ftsZ. We found that decreasing the mreB level resulted in increased cell width, with little change in cell length, whereas decreasing the ftsZ level resulted in increased cell length. Furthermore, the time from replication termination to cell division increased with the perturbed dimension in both cases. Moreover, the growth law remained valid over a range of growth conditions and dimension perturbations. The growth law can be quantitatively interpreted as a consequence of a tight coupling of cell division to replication initiation. Thus, its robustness to perturbations in cell dimensions strongly supports models in which the timing of replication initiation governs that of cell division, and cell volume is the key phenomenological variable governing the timing of replication initiation. These conclusions are discussed in the context of our recently proposed adder-per-origin model, in which cells add a constant volume per origin between initiations and divide a constant time after initiation.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.00587v1', ['Cell Behavior'], []]
[u'Collective force generation by groups of migrating bacteria', ['Benedikt Sabass', 'Howard A. Stone', 'Joshua W. Shaevitz'], u'2017-01-02', u'From biofilm and colony formation in bacteria to wound healing and embryonic development in multicellular organisms, groups of living cells must often move collectively. While considerable study has probed the biophysical mechanisms of how eukaryotic cells generate forces during migration, little such study has been devoted to bacteria, in particular with regard to the question of how bacteria generate and coordinate forces during collective motion. This question is addressed here for the first time using traction force microscopy. We study two distinct motility mechanisms of Myxococcus xanthus, namely twitching and gliding. For twitching, powered by type-IV pilus retraction, we find that individual cells exert local traction in small hotspots with forces on the order of 50 pN. Twitching of bacterial groups also produces traction hotspots, however with amplified forces around 100 pN. Although twitching groups migrate slowly as a whole, traction fluctuates rapidly on timescales <1.5 min. Gliding, the second motility mechanism, is driven by lateral transport of substrate adhesions. When cells are isolated, gliding produces low average traction on the order of 1 Pa. However, traction is amplified in groups by a factor of ~5. Since advancing protrusions of gliding cells push on average in the direction of motion, we infer a long-range compressive load sharing among sub-leading cells. Together, these results show that the forces generated during twitching and gliding have complementary characters and both forces are collectively amplified in groups.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.00524v1', ['Cell Behavior'], []]
[u'iCorr : Complex correlation method to detect origin of replication in prokaryotic and eukaryotic genomes', ['Shubham Kundal', 'Raunak Lohiya', 'Kushal Shah'], u'2016-12-31', u"Computational prediction of origin of replication (ORI) has been of great interest in bioinformatics and several methods including GC Skew, Z curve, auto-correlation etc. have been explored in the past. In this paper, we have extended the auto-correlation method to predict ORI location with much higher resolution for prokaryotes. The proposed complex correlation method (iCorr) converts the genome sequence into a sequence of complex numbers by mapping the nucleotides to {+1,-1,+i,- i} instead of {+1,-1} used in the auto-correlation method (here, 'i' is square root of -1). Thus, the iCorr method uses information about the positions of all the four nucleotides unlike the earlier auto-correlation method which uses the positional information of only one nucleotide. We have also developed a variant of the iCorr method to predict ORI location in eukaryotes and have tested it with the experimentally known origin locations of S. cerevisiae with an average accuracy of 71.76%.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.00707v1', ['Genomics'], []]
