[u'Statistical Physics of the Symmetric Group', ['Mobolaji Williams', 'Eugene Shakhnovich'], u'2017-01-25', u'Ordered chains (such as chains of amino acids) are ubiquitous in biological cells, and these chains perform specific functions contingent on the sequence of their components. Using the existence and general properties of such sequences as a theoretical motivation, we study the statistical physics of systems whose state space is defined by the possible permutations of an ordered list, i.e., the symmetric group, and whose energy is a function of how certain permutations deviate from some chosen correct ordering. Such a non-factorizable state space is quite different from the state spaces typically considered in statistical physics systems and consequently has novel behavior in systems with interacting and even non-interacting Hamiltonians. Various parameter choices of a mean-field model reveal the system to contain five different physical regimes defined by two transition temperatures, a triple point, and a quadruple point. Finally, we conclude by discussing how the general analysis can be extended to state spaces with more complex combinatorial properties and to other standard questions of statistical mechanics models.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.07374v1', ['Biomolecules'], []]
[u'Deciphering intrinsic inter-subunit couplings that lead to sequential hydrolysis of F1-ATPase ring', ['Liqiang Dai', 'Holger Flechsig', 'Jin Yu'], u'2017-01-18', u'The rotary sequential hydrolysis of metabolic machine F1-ATPase is a prominent feature to reveal high coordination among multiple chemical sites on the stator F1 ring, which also contributes to tight coupling between the chemical reaction and central {\\gamma}-shaft rotation. High-speed AFM experiments discovered that the sequential hydrolysis was maintained on the F1 ring even in the absence of the {\\gamma} rotor. To explore how the intrinsic sequential performance arises, we computationally investigated essential inter-subunit couplings on the hexameric ring of mitochondrial and bacterial F1. We first reproduced the sequential hydrolysis schemes as experimentally detected, by simulating tri-site ATP hydrolysis cycles on the F1 ring upon kinetically imposing inter-subunit couplings to substantially promote the hydrolysis products release. We found that it is key for certain ATP binding and hydrolysis events to facilitate the neighbor-site ADP and Pi release to support the sequential hydrolysis. The kinetically feasible couplings were then scrutinized through atomistic molecular dynamics simulations as well as coarse-grained simulations, in which we enforced targeted conformational changes for the ATP binding or hydrolysis. Notably, we detected the asymmetrical neighbor-site opening that would facilitate the ADP release upon the enforced ATP binding, and computationally captured the complete Pi release through charge hopping upon the enforced neighbor-site ATP hydrolysis. The ATP-hydrolysis triggered Pi release revealed in current TMD simulation confirms a recent prediction made from statistical analyses of single molecule experimental data in regard to the role ATP hydrolysis plays. Our studies, therefore, elucidate both the concerted chemical kinetics and underlying structural dynamics of the inter-subunit couplings that lead to the rotary sequential hydrolysis of the F1 ring.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.05078v1', ['Biomolecules'], []]
[u'Free Energy Computation by Monte Carlo Integration', ['Matthew Clark', 'Jeffrey S. Wiseman'], u'2017-01-18', u'The principles behind the computation of protein-ligand binding free energies by Monte Carlo integration are described in detail. The simulation provides gas-phase binding free energies that can be converted to aqueous energies by solvation corrections. The direct integration simulation has several characteristics beneficial to free-energy calculations. One is that the number of parameters that must be set for the simulation is small and can be determined objectively, making the outcome more deterministic, with respect to choice of input conditions, as compared to perturbation methods. Second, the simulation is free from assumptions about the starting pose or nature of the binding site. A final benefit is that binding free energies are a direct outcome of the simulation, and little processing is required to determine them. The well-studied T4 lysozyme experimental free energy data and crystal structures were used to evaluate the method.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.05073v1', ['Biomolecules'], []]
[u'Structural Effects and Competition Mechanisms Targeting the Interactions between p53 and Mdm2 for Cancer Therapy', ['Shuxia Liu', 'Yizhao Geng', 'Shiwei Yan'], u'2017-01-18', u'About half of human cancers show normal TP53 gene and aberrant overexpression of Mdm2 and/or MdmX. This fact promotes a promising cancer therapeutic strategy which targeting the interactions between p53 and Mdm2/MdmX. For developing the inhibitors to disrupt the p53-Mdm2/MdmX interactions, we systematically investigate structural and interaction characteristics of p53 and inhibitors with Mdm2 and MdmX from atomistic level by exploiting stochastic molecular dynamics simulations. We find that some specific $\\alpha$ helices in Mdm2 and MdmX structure play key role in their bindings with inhibitors and the hydrogen bond formed by residue Trp23 of p53 with its counterpart in Mdm2/MdmX determines dynamical competition processes of the disruption of Mdm2-p53 interaction and replacement of p53 from Mdm2-p53 complex {\\it in vivo}. We hope that the results reported in this paper provide basic information for designing functional inhibitors and realizing cancer gene therapy.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.04967v1', ['Biomolecules', 'Molecular Networks'], []]
[u'Decoding Epileptogenesis in a Reduced State Space', ['Francois G. Meyer', 'Alexander M. Benison', 'Zachariah Smith', 'Daniel S. Barth'], u'2017-01-25', u'We describe here the recent results of a multidisciplinary effort to design a biomarker that can actively and continuously decode the progressive changes in neuronal organization leading to epilepsy, a process known as epileptogenesis. Using an animal model of acquired epilepsy, wechronically record hippocampal evoked potentials elicited by an auditory stimulus. Using a set of reduced coordinates, our algorithm can identify universal smooth low-dimensional configurations of the auditory evoked potentials that correspond to distinct stages of epileptogenesis. We use a hidden Markov model to learn the dynamics of the evoked potential, as it evolves along these smooth low-dimensional subsets. We provide experimental evidence that the biomarker is able to exploit subtle changes in the evoked potential to reliably decode the stage of epileptogenesis and predict whether an animal will eventually recover from the injury, or develop spontaneous seizures.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.07243v1', ['Neurons and Cognition', 'Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Learning from Label Proportions in Brain-Computer Interfaces: Online Unsupervised Learning with Guarantees', ['D Hubner', 'T Verhoeven', 'K Schmid', 'K-R Muller', 'M Tangermann', 'P-J Kindermans'], u'2017-01-25', u'Objective: Using traditional approaches, a Brain-Computer Interface (BCI) requires the collection of calibration data for new subjects prior to online use. Calibration time can be reduced or eliminated e.g.~by transfer of a pre-trained classifier or unsupervised adaptive classification methods which learn from scratch and adapt over time. While such heuristics work well in practice, none of them can provide theoretical guarantees. Our objective is to modify an event-related potential (ERP) paradigm to work in unison with the machine learning decoder to achieve a reliable calibration-less decoding with a guarantee to recover the true class means. Method: We introduce learning from label proportions (LLP) to the BCI community as a new unsupervised, and easy-to-implement classification approach for ERP-based BCIs. The LLP estimates the mean target and non-target responses based on known proportions of these two classes in different groups of the data. We modified a visual ERP speller to meet the requirements of the LLP. For evaluation, we ran simulations on artificially created data sets and conducted an online BCI study with N=13 subjects performing a copy-spelling task. Results: Theoretical considerations show that LLP is guaranteed to minimize the loss function similarly to a corresponding supervised classifier. It performed well in simulations and in the online application, where 84.5% of characters were spelled correctly on average without prior calibration. Significance: The continuously adapting LLP classifier is the first unsupervised decoder for ERP BCIs guaranteed to find the true class means. This makes it an ideal solution to avoid a tedious calibration and to tackle non-stationarities in the data. Additionally, LLP works on complementary principles compared to existing unsupervised methods, allowing for their further enhancement when combined with LLP.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.07213v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Learning Mid-Level Auditory Codes from Natural Sound Statistics', ['Wiktor Mynarski', 'Josh H. McDermott'], u'2017-01-25', u'Interaction with the world requires an organism to transform sensory signals into representations in which behaviorally meaningful properties of the environment are made explicit. These representations are derived through cascades of neuronal processing stages in which neurons at each stage recode the output of preceding stages. Explanations of sensory coding may thus involve understanding how low-level patterns are combined into more complex structures. Although models exist in the visual domain to explain how mid-level features such as junctions and curves might be derived from oriented filters in early visual cortex, little is known about analogous grouping principles for mid-level auditory representations. We propose a hierarchical generative model of natural sounds that learns combinations of spectrotemporal features from natural stimulus statistics. In the first layer the model forms a sparse convolutional code of spectrograms using a dictionary of learned spectrotemporal kernels. To generalize from specific kernel activation patterns, the second layer encodes patterns of time-varying magnitude of multiple first layer coefficients. Because second-layer features are sensitive to combinations of spectrotemporal features, the representation they support encodes more complex acoustic patterns than the first layer. When trained on corpora of speech and environmental sounds, some second-layer units learned to group spectrotemporal features that occur together in natural sounds. Others instantiate opponency between dissimilar sets of spectrotemporal features. Such groupings might be instantiated by neurons in the auditory cortex, providing a hypothesis for mid-level neuronal computation.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.07138v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'A complete mean-field theory for dynamics of binary recurrent neural networks', ['Farzad Farkhooi', 'Wilhelm Stannat'], u'2017-01-25', u"Recurrent networks of binary units provide a prototype for complex interactions in neuronal networks. In the theoretical analysis of their collective dynamics, it is often assumed that unit interactions in the network are homogeneous. Here, we derive a unified theory that encompasses the macroscopic dynamics of recurrent networks with arbitrary connectivity architectures. We identify conditions to the connectivity patterns for which the population averages, according to mean-field theory, converge to a deterministic limit as the size of the system increases. The mathematical analysis, using the martingale structure of the network's Markovian dynamics, further quantifies the aggregate fluctuation of the population activity in a finite-size system. Our theory allows, without additional effort, the investigation of systems that do not exhibit a pointwise convergence to the mean-field limit. In particular, we uncover a novel dynamic state in which a system with inhomogeneous micro-structures in the network connectivity, along with an asynchronous behavior, also exhibits stochastic synchronization. This phenomenon resembles non-trivial fluctuations in the average population activity, which can survive irrespective of system size. The concise mathematical analysis that is presented here enables formulation of mean-field equation for these cases in the form of a stochastic ordinary differential equation. Our results indicate the essential elements for implementation of connectivity motifs in the general theory of recurrent networks.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.07128v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Harnessing the Web for Population-Scale Physiological Sensing: A Case Study of Sleep and Performance', ['Tim Althoff', 'Eric Horvitz', 'Ryen W. White', 'Jamie Zeitzer'], u'2017-01-21', u'Human cognitive performance is critical to productivity, learning, and accident avoidance. Cognitive performance varies throughout each day and is in part driven by intrinsic, near 24-hour circadian rhythms. Prior research on the impact of sleep and circadian rhythms on cognitive performance has typically been restricted to small-scale laboratory-based studies that do not capture the variability of real-world conditions, such as environmental factors, motivation, and sleep patterns in real-world settings. Given these limitations, leading sleep researchers have called for larger in situ monitoring of sleep and performance. We present the largest study to date on the impact of objectively measured real-world sleep on performance enabled through a reframing of everyday interactions with a web search engine as a series of performance tasks. Our analysis includes 3 million nights of sleep and 75 million interaction tasks. We measure cognitive performance through the speed of keystroke and click interactions on a web search engine and correlate them to wearable device-defined sleep measures over time. We demonstrate that real-world performance varies throughout the day and is influenced by both circadian rhythms, chronotype (morning/evening preference), and prior sleep duration and timing. We develop a statistical model that operationalizes a large body of work on sleep and performance and demonstrates that our estimates of circadian rhythms, homeostatic sleep drive, and sleep inertia align with expectations from laboratory-based sleep studies. Further, we quantify the impact of insufficient sleep on real-world performance and show that two consecutive nights with less than six hours of sleep are associated with decreases in performance which last for a period of six days. This work demonstrates the feasibility of using online interactions for large-scale physiological sensing.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.07083v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Synchronization and long-time memory in neural networks with inhibitory hubs and synaptic plasticity', ['Elena Bertolotti', 'Raffaella Burioni', 'Matteo di Volo', 'Alessandro Vezzani'], u'2017-01-18', u'We investigate the dynamical role of inhibitory and highly connected nodes (hub) in synchronization and input processing of leaky-integrate-and-fire neural networks with short term synaptic plasticity. We take advantage of a heterogeneous mean-field approximation to encode the role of network structure and we tune the fraction of inhibitory neurons $f_I$ and their connectivity level to investigate the cooperation between hub features and inhibition. We show that, depending on $f_I$, highly connected inhibitory nodes strongly drive the synchronization properties of the overall network through dynamical transitions from synchronous to asynchronous regimes. Furthermore, a metastable regime with long memory of external inputs emerges for a specific fraction of hub inhibitory neurons, underlining the role of inhibition and connectivity also for input processing in neural networks.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.05056v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'A gentle introduction to the minimal Naming Game', ['Andrea Baronchelli'], u'2017-01-25', u'Social conventions govern countless behaviors all of us engage in every day, from how we greet each other to the languages we speak. But how can shared conventions emerge spontaneously in the absence of a central coordinating authority? The Naming Game model shows that networks of locally interacting individuals can spontaneously self-organize to produce global coordination. Here, we provide a gentle introduction to the main features of the model, from the dynamics observed in homogeneously mixing populations to the role played by more complex social networks, and to how slight modifications of the basic interaction rules give origin to a richer phenomenology in which more conventions can co-exist indefinitely.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.07419v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Approximations of the allelic frequency spectrum in general supercritical branching populations', ['Benoit Henry'], u'2017-01-25', u"We consider a general branching population where the lifetimes of individuals are i.i.d.\\ with arbitrary distribution and where each individual gives birth to new individuals at Poisson times independently from each other. In addition, we suppose that individuals experience mutations at Poissonian rate $\\theta$ under the infinitely many alleles assumption assuming that types are transmitted from parents to offspring. This mechanism leads to a partition of the population by type, called the allelic partition. The main object of this work is the frequency spectrum $A(k,t)$ which counts the number of families of size $k$ in the population at time $t$. The process $(A(k,t),\\ t\\in\\mathbb{R}_+)$ is an example of non-Markovian branching process belonging to the class of general branching processes counted by random characteristics. In this work, we propose methods of approximation to replace the frequency spectrum by simpler quantities. Our main goal is study the asymptotic error made during these approximations through central limit theorems. In a last section, we perform several numerical analysis using this model, in particular to analyze the behavior of one of these approximations with respect to Sabeti's Extended Haplotype Homozygosity [18].", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.07281v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Context-Aware Prediction of Pathogenicity of Missense Mutations Involved in Human Disease', ['Christoph Feinauer', 'Martin Weigt'], u'2017-01-25', u'Amino-acid substitutions are implicated in a wide range of human diseases, many of which are lethal. Distinguishing such mutations from polymorphisms without significant effect on human health is a necessary step in understanding the etiology of such diseases. Computational methods can be used to select interesting mutations within a larger set, to corroborate experimental findings and to elucidate the cause of the deleterious effect. In this work, we show that taking into account the sequence context in which the mutation appears allows to improve the predictive and explanatory power of such methods. We present an unsupervised approach based on the direct-coupling analysis of homologous proteins. We show its capability to quantify mutations where methods without context dependence fail. We highlight cases where the context dependence is interpretable as functional or structural constraints and show that our simple and unsupervised method has an accuracy similar to state-of-the-art methods, including supervised ones.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.07246v1', ['Quantitative Methods', 'Genomics'], []]
[u'Quantification of myosin distribution predicts global morphogenetic flow in the fly embryo', ['Sebastian J Streichan', 'Matthew F Lefebvre', 'Nicholas Noll', 'Eric F Wieschaus', 'Boris I Shraiman'], u'2017-01-24', u"During embryogenesis tissue layers continuously rearrange and fold into specific shapes. Developmental biology identified patterns of gene expression and cytoskeletal regulation underlying local tissue dynamics, but how actions of multiple domains of distinct cell types coordinate to remodel tissues at the organ scale remains unclear. We use in toto light-sheet microscopy, automated image analysis, and physical modeling to quantitatively investigate the link between kinetics of global tissue transformations and force generation patterns during Drosophila gastrulation. We find embryo-scale shape changes are represented by a temporal sequence of three simple flow field configurations. Each phase is accompanied by a characteristic spatial myosin distribution, quantified in terms of a coarse-grained 'myosin tensor' that captures both concentration and anisotropy. Our model assumes tissue flow is driven by stress proportional to the myosin tensor, and is effectively visco-elastic with two parameters that control 'irrotational' and 'divergence-less' components of the flow. With just three global parameters, this model achieves up to 90% agreement between predicted and measured flow. The analysis uncovers importance of a) spatial modulation of myosin distribution and b) long-range spreading of its effect due to mechanical interaction of cells. In particular, we find germband extension phase is associated with the onset of effective areal incompressibility of the epithelium, which makes the relation of flow and myosin forcing strongly non-local. Our analysis also revealed a new function for basal myosin in generating a dorsally directed flow and, combined with mutant analysis, identified an unconventional control mechanism through twist dependent reduction of basal myosin levels on the ventral side. We conclude that understanding morphogenetic flow requires a fundamentally global perspective.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.07100v1', ['Quantitative Methods', 'Tissues and Organs', 'Cell Behavior'], []]
[u'Natural and fishing mortalities affecting eastern sea garfish, Hyporhamphus australis, inferred from age-frequency data using hazard functions', ['Matt K. Broadhursta', 'Marco Kienzle', 'John Stewart'], u'2017-01-24', u'Estimates of age-specific natural (M) and fishing (F) mortalities among economically important stocks are required to determine sustainable yields and, ultimately, facilitate effective resource management. Here we used hazard functions to estimate mortality rates for eastern sea garfish, Hyporhamphus australis, a pelagic species that forms the basis of an Australian commercial lampara-net fishery. Data describing annual (2004 to 2015) age frequencies (0-1 to 5-6 years), yield, effort (boat-days), and average weights at age were used to fit various stochastic models to estimate mortality rates by maximum likelihood. The model best supported by the data implied: (i) the escape of fish aged 0-1 years increased from approximately 90 to 97% as a result of a mandated increase in stretched mesh opening from 25 to 28 mm; (ii) full selectivity among older age groups; (iii) a constant M of 0.52 +- 0.06 per year; and (iv) a decline in F between 2004 and 2015. Recruitment and biomass were estimated to vary, but increased during the sampled period. The results reiterate the utility of hazard functions to estimate and partition mortality rates, and support traditional input controls designed to reduce both accounted and unaccounted F.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.07053v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Fractional Calculus and the ESR test', ['Jose Vanterler da Costa Sousa', 'Edmundo Capelas de Oliveira', 'Luiz Alberto Magna'], u'2016-12-29', u'We consider a partial differential equation associated with a mathematical model describing the concentration of nutrients in blood which interferes directly on the erythrocyte sedimentation rate in the case of an average fluid velocity equal to zero. Introducing the fractional derivative in the Caputo sense, we propose a time-fractional mathematical model which contains, as a particular case, the model proposed by Sharma et al. Our main purpose is to obtain an analytic solution of this time-fractional partial differential equation in terms of the Mittag-Leffler function and Wright function.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.07379v1', ['Tissues and Organs'], []]
