[u'Dynamical coupling between protein conformational fluctuation and hydration water: Heterogeneous dynamics of biological water', ['Sayantan Mondal', 'Saumyak Mukherjee', 'Biman Bagchi'], u'2017-01-05', u'We investigate dynamical coupling between water and amino acid side-chain residues in solvation dynamics by selecting residues often used as natural probes, namely tryptophan, tyrosine and histidine, located at different positions on protein surface and having various degrees of solvent exposure. Such differently placed residues are found to exhibit different timescales of relaxation. The total solvation response, as measured by the probe is decomposed in terms of its interactions with (i) protein core, (ii) side-chain atoms and (iii) water molecules. Significant anti cross-correlations among these contributions are observed as a result of side-chain assisted energy flow between protein core and hydration layer, which is important for the proper functionality of a protein. It is also observed that there are rotationally faster as well as slower water molecules than that of bulk solvent, which are considered to be responsible for the multitude of timescales that are observed in solvation dynamics. We also establish that slow solvation derives a significant contribution from protein side-chain fluctuations. When the motion of the protein side-chains is forcefully quenched, solvation either becomes faster or slower depending on the location of the probe.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.04861v1', ['Biomolecules'], []]
[u'Integrated information and dimensionality in continuous attractor dynamics', ['Satohiro Tajima', 'Ryota Kanai'], u'2017-01-18', u'There has been increasing interest in the integrated information theory (IIT) of consciousness, which hypothesizes that consciousness emerges from integrated information processing by neuronal dynamics. However, the current formulation of IIT poses both practical and theoretical problems when we aim to empirically test the theory by computing integrated information from neuronal signals. For example, measuring integrated information requires observing all the elements at the same time, but this is practically rather difficult. In addition, the interpretation of spatial partition needed to compute integrated information becomes vague in continuous time-series variables due to a general property of nonlinear dynamical systems known as "embedding". Here we propose that some aspects of such problems are resolved by considering the topological dimensionality of shared attractor dynamics as an indicator of integrated information in continuous attractor dynamics. In this formulation, the effects of unobserved nodes on the attractor dynamics can be reconstructed using a technique called delay-embedding, which allows us to determine the dimensionality of an embedded attractor from partial observations. We propose that the topological dimensionality indicates a critical property of integrated information as it is invariant to general coordinate transformations. We illustrate this new framework with simple examples, and discuss how it fit together with recent findings based on neural recordings from awake and anesthetized animals. This topological approach extends the existing notions of IIT to continuous dynamical systems, and offers a much-needed framework for testing the theory with experimental data by substantially relaxing the conditions required for evaluating integrated information in real neural systems.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.05157v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Converting Cascade-Correlation Neural Nets into Probabilistic Generative Models', ['Ardavan Salehi Nobandegani', 'Thomas R. Shultz'], u'2017-01-18', u'Humans are not only adept in recognizing what class an input instance belongs to (i.e., classification task), but perhaps more remarkably, they can imagine (i.e., generate) plausible instances of a desired class with ease, when prompted. Inspired by this, we propose a framework which allows transforming Cascade-Correlation Neural Networks (CCNNs) into probabilistic generative models, thereby enabling CCNNs to generate samples from a category of interest. CCNNs are a well-known class of deterministic, discriminative NNs, which autonomously construct their topology, and have been successful in giving accounts for a variety of psychological phenomena. Our proposed framework is based on a Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) method, called the Metropolis-adjusted Langevin algorithm, which capitalizes on the gradient information of the target distribution to direct its explorations towards regions of high probability, thereby achieving good mixing properties. Through extensive simulations, we demonstrate the efficacy of our proposed framework.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.05004v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Feedforward Architectures Driven by Inhibitory Interactions', ['Yazan N. Billeh', 'Michael T. Schaub'], u'2017-01-18', u'Directed information transmission is a paramount requirement for many social, physical, and biological systems. For neural systems, scientists have studied this problem under the paradigm of feedforward networks for decades. In most models of feedforward networks, activity is exclusively driven by excitatory neurons and the wiring patterns between them while inhibitory neurons play only a stabilizing role for the network dynamics. Motivated by recent experimental discoveries of hippocampal circuitry and the diversity of inhibitory neurons throughout the brain, here we illustrate that one can construct such networks even if the connectivity between the excitatory units in the system remains random. This is achieved by endowing inhibitory nodes with a more active role in the network. Our findings demonstrate that feedforward activity can be caused by a much broader network-architectural basis than often assumed.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.04905v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Grid cells show field-to-field variability and this explains the aperiodic response of inhibitory interneurons', ['Benjamin Dunn', 'Daniel Wennberg', 'Ziwei Huang', 'Yasser Roudi'], u'2017-01-17', u'Research on network mechanisms and coding properties of grid cells assume that the firing rate of a grid cell in each of its fields is the same. Furthermore, proposed network models predict spatial regularities in the firing of inhibitory interneurons that are inconsistent with experimental data. In this paper, by analyzing the response of grid cells recorded from rats during free navigation, we first show that there are strong variations in the mean firing rate of the fields of individual grid cells and thus show that the data is inconsistent with the theoretical models that predict similar peak magnitudes. We then build a two population excitatory-inhibitory network model in which sparse spatially selective input to the excitatory cells, presumed to arise from e.g. salient external stimuli, hippocampus or a combination of both, leads to the variability in the firing field amplitudes of grid cells. We show that, when combined with appropriate connectivity between the excitatory and inhibitory neurons, the variability in the firing field amplitudes of grid cells results in inhibitory neurons that do not exhibit regular spatial firing, consistent with experimental data. Finally, we show that even if the spatial positions of the fields are maintained, variations in the firing rates of the fields of grid cells are enough to cause remapping of hippocampal cells.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.04893v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Mathematical modelling of variable porosity coatings for controlled drug release', ['Sean McGinty', 'David King', 'Giuseppe Pontrelli'], u'2017-01-18', u"In this paper we investigate the extent to which variable porosity drug-eluting coatings can provide better control over drug release than coatings where the porosity is constant throughout. In particular, we aim to establish the potential benefits of replacing a single-layer with a two-layer coating of identical total thickness and initial drug mass. In our study, what distinguishes the layers (other than their individual thickness and initial drug loading) is the underlying microstructure, and in particular the effective porosity and the tortuosity of the material. We consider the effect on the drug release profile of varying the initial distribution of drug, the relative thickness of the layers and the relative resistance to diffusion offered by each layer's composition. Our results indicate that the contrast in properties of the two layers can be used as a means of better controlling the release, and that the quantity of drug delivered in the early stages can be modulated by varying the distribution of drug across the layers. We conclude that microstructural and loading differences between multi-layer variable porosity coatings can be used to tune the properties of the coating materials to obtain the desired drug release profile for a given application.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.04989v1', ['Tissues and Organs'], []]
