[u'Emergent stochastic oscillations and signal detection in tree networks of excitable elements', ['Justus Kromer', 'Ali Khaledi-Nasab', 'Lutz Schimansky-Geier', 'Alexander B. Neiman'], u'2017-01-06', u'We study the stochastic dynamics of strongly-coupled excitable elements on a tree network. The peripheral nodes receive independent random inputs which may induce large spiking events propagating through the branches of the tree and leading to global coherent oscillations in the network. This scenario may be relevant to action potential generation in certain sensory neurons, which possess myelinated distal dendritic tree-like arbors with excitable nodes of Ranvier at peripheral and branching nodes and exhibit noisy periodic sequences of action potentials. We focus on the spiking statistics of the central node, which fires in response to a noisy input at peripheral nodes. We show that, in the strong coupling regime, relevant to myelinated dendritic trees, the spike train statistics can be predicted from an isolated excitable element with rescaled parameters according to the network topology. Furthermore, we show that by varying the network topology the spike train statistics of the central node can be tuned to have a certain firing rate and variability, or to allow for an optimal discrimination of inputs applied at the peripheral nodes.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.01693v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Control of Dynamics in Brain Networks', ['Evelyn Tang', 'Danielle S. Bassett'], u'2017-01-06', u"The control of brain dynamics provides great promise for the enhancement of cognitive function in humans, and by extension the betterment of their quality of life. Yet, successfully controlling dynamics in neural systems is particularly challenging, not least due to the immense complexity of the brain and the large set of interactions that can affect any single change. While we have gained some understanding of the control of single neurons, the control of large-scale neural systems---networks of multiply interacting components---remains poorly understood. Efforts to address this gap include the recent development of new tools for the control of brain networks, mostly adapted from control and dynamical systems theory. These theoretical contributions provide new models that draw from a wide array of mathematical approaches, and have been directly informed by current opportunities for practical intervention. We present intriguing recent developments for strategies of control in dynamic brain networks, and we also describe potential mechanisms that underlie such processes. We review efforts in the control of general neurophysiological processes with implications for brain development and cognitive function, as well as the control of altered neurophysiological processes in medical contexts such as anesthesia administration, seizure suppression, and deep-brain stimulation for Parkinson's disease. We conclude by highlighting new results from network control---especially approaches that deal with nonlinear dynamics or more realistic trajectories for control transitions---that could be of great relevance to addressing pressing questions in neuroscience.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.01531v1', ['Neurons and Cognition', 'Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Group-wise 3D registration based templates to study the evolution of ant worker neuroanatomy', ['Ignacio Arganda-Carreras', 'Darcy G Gordon', 'Sara Arganda', 'Maxime Beaudoin', 'James FA Traniello'], u'2017-01-05', u'The evolutionary success of ants and other social insects is considered to be intrinsically linked to division of labor and emergent collective intelligence. The role of the brains of individual ants in generating these processes, however, is poorly understood. One genus of ant of special interest is Pheidole, which includes more than a thousand species, most of which are dimorphic, i.e. their colonies contain two subcastes of workers: minors and majors. Using confocal imaging and manual annotations, it has been demonstrated that minor and major workers of different ages of three species of Pheidole have distinct patterns of brain size and subregion scaling. However, these studies require laborious effort to quantify brain region volumes and are subject to potential bias. To address these issues, we propose a group-wise 3D registration approach to build for the first time bias-free brain atlases of intra- and inter-subcaste individuals and automatize the segmentation of new individuals.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.01433v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'HLA class I binding prediction via convolutional neural networks', ['Yeeleng Scott Vang', 'Xiaohui Xie'], u'2017-01-03', u'Many biological processes are governed by protein-ligand interactions. Of such is the recognition of self and nonself cells by the immune system. This immune response process is regulated by the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) protein which is encoded by the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) complex. Understanding the binding potential between MHC and peptides is crucial to our understanding of the functioning of the immune system, which in turns will broaden our understanding of autoimmune diseases and vaccine design. We introduce a new distributed representation of amino acids, named HLA-Vec, that can be used for a variety of downstream proteomic machine learning tasks. We then propose a deep convolutional neurerror can be used only in preambleal network architecture, named HLA-CNN, for the task of HLA class I-peptide binding prediction. Experimental results show combining the new distributed representation with our HLA-CNN architecture acheives state-of-the-art results in the vast majority of the latest two Immune Epitope Database (IEDB) weekly automated benchmark datasets.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.00593v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Quantifying the information transduction of biochemical reaction cascades: transcription of mRNA from ligand stimulation', ['Tatsuaki Tsuruyama'], u'2017-01-06', u'The cell has the ability to convert an extracellular biochemical change into the expression of genetic information through a chain of intracellular cycle reactions with information conversion. Here, we show that an individual reaction cycle can be regarded as a kind of Szilard engine. Accordingly, the work done at the individual cycle level can be calculated by measuring the amount of information transmitted. As a result, we can obtain a method for quantifying the information transduction of biochemical reaction cascades.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.01511v1', ['Molecular Networks'], []]
