[u'Stochastic Subsampling for Factorizing Huge Matrices', ['Arthur Mensch', 'Julien Mairal', 'Bertrand Thirion', 'Gael Varoquaux'], u'2017-01-19', u'We present a matrix-factorization algorithm that scales to input matrices with both huge number of rows and columns. Learned factors may be sparse or dense and/or non-negative, which makes our algorithm suitable for dictionary learning, sparse component analysis, and non-negative matrix factorization. Our algorithm streams matrix columns while subsampling them to iteratively learn the matrix factors. At each iteration, the row dimension of a new sample is reduced by subsampling, resulting in lower time complexity compared to a simple streaming algorithm. Our method comes with convergence guarantees to reach a stationary point of the matrix-factorization problem. We demonstrate its efficiency on massive functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging data (2 TB), and on patches extracted from hyperspectral images (103 GB). For both problems, which involve different penalties on rows and columns, we obtain significant speed-ups compared to state-of-the-art algorithms.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.05363v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], [u'PARIETAL, NEUROSPIN', u'Thoth', u'NEUROSPIN, PARIETAL']]
[u'The minimum conflict-free row split problem revisited: a branching formulation and (in)approximability issues', ['Ademir Hujdurovic', 'Edin Husic', 'Martin Milanic', 'Romeo Rizzi', 'Alexandru I. Tomescu'], u'2017-01-19', u'Motivated by applications in cancer genomics and following the work of Hajirasouliha and Raphael (WABI 2014), Hujdurovi\\\'{c} et al. (WABI 2015, full version to appear in IEEE TCBB) introduced the minimum conflict-free row split (MCRS) problem: split each row of a given binary matrix into a bitwise OR of a set of rows so that the resulting matrix corresponds to a perfect phylogeny and has the minimum number of rows among all matrices with this property. Hajirasouliha and Raphael also proposed the study of a similar problem, referred to as the minimum distinct conflict-free row split (MDCRS) problem, in which the task is to minimize the number of distinct rows of the resulting matrix. Hujdurovi\\\'{c} et al. proved that both problems are NP-hard, gave a related characterization of transitively orientable graphs, and proposed a polynomial time heuristic algorithm for the MCRS problem based on coloring cocomparability graphs. We give new formulations of the two problems, showing that the problems are equivalent to two optimization problems on branchings in a derived directed acyclic graph. Building on these formulations, we obtain new results on the two problems, including: (i) a strengthening of the heuristic by Hujdurovi\\\'{c} et al. via a new min-max result in digraphs generalizing Dilworth\'s theorem, (ii) APX-hardness results for both problems, (iii) two approximation algorithms for the MCRS problem, and (iv) a 2-approximation algorithm for the MDCRS problem. The branching formulations also lead to exact exponential time algorithms for solving the two problems to optimality faster than the na\\"ive brute-force approach.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.05492v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'A mechanistic model quantifies artemisinin-induced parasite growth retardation in blood-stage Plasmodium falciparum infection', ['Pengxing Cao', 'Nectarios Klonis', 'Sophie Zaloumis', 'David S. Khoury', 'Deborah Cromer', 'Miles P. Davenport', 'Leann Tilley', 'Julie A. Simpson', 'James M. McCaw'], u'2017-01-19', u"Falciparum malaria is a major parasitic disease causing widespread morbidity and mortality globally. Artemisinin derivatives---the most effective and widely-used antimalarials that have helped reduce the burden of malaria by 60% in some areas over the past decade---have recently been found to induce growth retardation of blood-stage Plasmodium falciparum when applied at clinically relevant concentrations. To date, no model has been designed to quantify the growth retardation effect and to predict the influence of this property on in vivo parasite killing. Here we introduce a mechanistic model of parasite growth from the ring to trophozoite stage of the parasite's life cycle, and by modelling the level of staining with an RNA-binding dye, we demonstrate that the model is able to reproduce fluorescence distribution data from in vitro experiments using the laboratory 3D7 strain. We quantify the dependence of growth retardation on drug concentration and demonstrate the model's utility as a platform to propose experimentally-testable mechanisms of growth retardation. Furthermore we illustrate that a drug-induced delay in growth may significantly influence in vivo parasite dynamics, demonstrating the importance of considering growth retardation in the design of optimal artemisinin-based dosing regimens.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.05302v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Climate change alters diffusion of forest pest: A model study', ['Woo Seong Jo', 'Hwang-Yong Kim', 'Beom Jun Kim'], u'2017-01-19', u'Population dynamics with spatial information is applied to understand the spread of pests. We introduce a model describing how pests spread in discrete space. The number of pest descendants at each site is controlled by local information such as temperature, precipitation, and the density of pine trees. Our simulation leads to a pest spreading pattern comparable to the real data for pine needle gall midge in the past. We also simulate the model in two different climate conditions based on two different representative concentration pathways scenarios for the future. We observe that after an initial stage of a slow spread of pests, a sudden change in the spreading speed occurs, which is soon followed by a large-scale outbreak. We found that a future climate change causes the outbreak point to occur earlier and that the detailed spatio-temporal pattern of the spread depends on the source position from which the initial pest infection starts.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.05278v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Intermittent Preventive Treatment (IPT): Its role in averting disease-induced mortalities in children and in promoting the spread of antimalarial drug resistance', ['Carrie A. Manore', 'Miranda I. Teboh-Ewungkem', 'Olivia Prosper', 'Angela L. Peace', 'Katharine Gurski', 'Zhilan Feng'], u'2017-01-18', u'We develop a variable population age-structured ODE model to investigate the role of Intermittent Preventive Treatment (IPT) in averting malaria-induced mortalities in children, as well as its related cost in promoting the spread of anti-malarial drug resistance. IPT, a malaria control strategy in which a full curative dose of an antimalarial medication is administered to vulnerable asymptomatic individuals at specified intervals, has been shown to have a positive impact on reducing malaria transmission and deaths in children and pregnant women. However, it can also promote drug resistance spread. Our mathematical model is used to explore IPT effects on drug resistance in holoendemic malaria regions while quantifying the benefits in deaths averted. Our model includes both drug-sensitive and drug-resistant strains of the parasite as well as interactions between human hosts and mosquitoes. The basic reproduction numbers for both strains as well as the invasion reproduction numbers are derived and used to examine the role of IPT on drug resistance. Numerical simulations show the individual and combined effects of IPT and treatment of symptomatic infections on the prevalence levels of both parasite strains and on the number of lives saved. The results suggest that while IPT can indeed save lives, particularly in the high transmission region, certain combinations of drugs used for IPT and drugs used to treat symptomatic infection may result in more deaths when resistant parasite strains are circulating. Moreover, the half-lives of the treatment and IPT drugs used play an important role in the extent to which IPT may influence the rate of spread of the resistant strain. A sensitivity analysis indicates the model outcomes are most sensitive to the reduction factor of transmission for the resistant strain, rate of immunity loss, and the clearance rate of sensitive infections.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.05210v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Translating ceRNA susceptibilities into correlation functions', ['Araks Martirosyan', 'Matteo Marsili', 'Andrea De Martino'], u'2017-01-19', u"Competition to bind microRNAs induces an effective positive crosstalk between their targets, therefore known as `competing endogenous RNAs' or ceRNAs. While such an effect is known to play a significant role in specific conditions, estimating its strength from data and, experimentally, in physiological conditions appears to be far from simple. Here we show that the susceptibility of ceRNAs to different types of perturbations affecting their competitors (and hence their tendency to crosstalk) can be encoded in quantities as intuitive and as simple to measure as correlation functions. We confirm this scenario by extensive numerical simulations and validate it by re-analyzing PTEN's crosstalk pattern from TCGA breast cancer dataset. These results clarify the links between different quantities used to estimate the intensity of ceRNA crosstalk and provide new keys to analyze transcriptional datasets and effectively probe ceRNA networks in silico.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.05400v1', ['Quantitative Methods', 'Molecular Networks'], []]
[u'Criterion of positivity for semilinear problems with applications in biology', ['Michel Duprez', 'Antoine Perasso'], u'2017-01-19', u'The goal of this article is to provide an useful criterion of positivity and well-posedness for a wide range of infinite dimensional semilinear abstract Cauchy problems. This criterion is based on some weak assumptions on the non-linear part of the semilinear problem and on the existence of a strongly continuous semigroup generated by the differential operator. To illustrate a large variety of applications, we exhibit the feasibility of this criterion through three examples in mathematical biology: epidemiology, predator-prey interactions and oncology.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.05314v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'The competitive nature of STAT complex formation drives phenotype switching of T cells', ['Ildar I Sadreev', 'Michael Z Q Chen', 'Yoshinori Umezawa', 'Vadim N Biktashev', 'Claudia Kemper', 'Diana V Salakhieva', 'Gavin I Welsh', 'Nikolay V Kotov'], u'2017-01-19', u'Signal transducers and activators of transcription (STATs) are key molecular determinants of T cell fate and effector function. A number of inflammatory diseases are characterized by an altered balance of T cell phenotypes and cytokine secretion. STATs, therefore, represent viable therapeutic targets in numerous pathologies. However, the underlying mechanisms of how the same STAT proteins regulate both the development of different T cell phenotypes and their plasticity during changes in extracellular conditions remain unclear. In this study, we investigated the STAT mediated regulation of T cell phenotype formation and plasticity using mathematical modeling and experimental data for intracellular STAT signaling proteins. The close fit of our model predictions to the experimental data for IFN-{\\gamma} to IL-10 switching allows us to propose a potential mechanism for T cell switching that regulates human Th1/Tr1 responses. According to this mechanism, T cell phenotype switching is due to the relative redistribution of STAT dimer complexes caused by the extracellular cytokine-dependent STAT competition effects. The proposed model is applicable to a number of STAT signaling circuits.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.05503v1', ['Molecular Networks'], []]
[u'IRE1 alpha may be causing abnormal loss of p53 at post transcriptional level in chronic myeloid leukemia', ['Katte Rao Toppaldoddi'], u'2017-01-19', u'Current treatment strategy for chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) mainly includes inhibition of tyrosine kinase activity, which has dramatically improved the prognosis of the disease but without cure. In addition some patients may become drug resistant. Thus there is still the need for other therapies to avoid resistance and if possible to cure the disease. Loss of p53 is known to play an important role in the disease progression of CML and causes drug resistance. Here I propose that in CML, inositol requiring enzyme 1 alpha (IRE1 alpha) may cause abnormal degradation of p53 mRNA resulting in inhibition of apoptosis in leukemic clonal cells, which has not been elucidated before. Hence, I propose that inhibition of endoribonuclease activity of IRE1 alpha with small molecule inhibitors may provide a novel strategy to enhance p53 function in CML leukemic clones to overcome the limitations of current treatment regimens.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.05338v1', ['Subcellular Processes'], []]
