[u'Central and peripheral vision for scene recognition: A neurocomputational modeling exploration', ['Panqu Wang', 'Garrison W. Cottrell'], u'2017-05-02', u'What are the roles of central and peripheral vision in human scene recognition? Larson and Loschky (2009) showed that peripheral vision contributes more than central vision in obtaining maximum scene recognition accuracy. However, central vision is more efficient for scene recognition than peripheral, based on the amount of visual area needed for accurate recognition. In this study, we model and explain the results of Larson and Loschky (2009) using a neurocomputational modeling approach. We show that the advantage of peripheral vision in scene recognition, as well as the efficiency advantage for central vision, can be replicated using state-of-the-art deep neural network models. In addition, we propose and provide support for the hypothesis that the peripheral advantage comes from the inherent usefulness of peripheral features. This result is consistent with data presented by Thibaut, Tran, Szaffarczyk, and Boucart (2014), who showed that patients with central vision loss can still categorize natural scenes efficiently. Furthermore, by using a deep mixture-of-experts model ("The Deep Model," or TDM) that receives central and peripheral visual information on separate channels simultaneously, we show that the peripheral advantage emerges naturally in the learning process: When trained to categorize scenes, the model weights the peripheral pathway more than the central pathway. As we have seen in our previous modeling work, learning creates a transform that spreads different scene categories into different regions in representational space. Finally, we visualize the features for the two pathways, and find that different preferences for scene categories emerge for the two pathways during the training process.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.00816v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'A Proposal for an Electron-Transfer Mechanism of Avian Magnetoreception', ['Shao-Qing Zhang'], u'2017-05-01', u"In spite of many years of research, the mechanism of avian magnetoreception remains a mystery due to its seemingly insurmountable intricacies. Recently Xie and colleagues proposed that IscA1 can act as a protein biocompass due to the measured intrinsic ferromagneticity, and thus named it MagR. However, Meister's calculations showed that the interaction energy of the magnetic moment of IscA1 with Earth's magnetic field is five magnitudes smaller than thermal fluctuation at room temperature. The other long-proposed compass protein is cryptochrome (Cry) with a mechanism of forming singlet-triplet radical pairs. However, this sensory mechanism still has no inferable information transmission routes. We propose a magnetoreception mechanism involving both the Cry and IscA1 proteins, through which photoinduced electrons are transported to redox-regulated ion channels to provoke neuronal responses. The structural features of the Cry-IscA1 complex that make it suitable for long-range electron transfer are discussed and how the magnetic effect leads to neuronal activity is described.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.00735v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Analysis, simulation and optimal control of a SEIR model for Ebola virus with demographic effects', ['Amira Rachah', 'Delfim F. M. Torres'], u'2017-05-02', u'Ebola virus is one of the most virulent pathogens for humans. We present a mathematical description of different Susceptible-Exposed-Infectious-Recovered (SEIR) models. By using mathematical modeling and analysis, the latest major outbreak of Ebola virus in West Africa is described. Our aim is to study and discuss the properties of SEIR models with respect to Ebola virus, the information they provide, and when the models make sense. We added to the basic SEIR model demographic effects in order to analyze the equilibria with vital dynamics. Numerical simulations confirm the theoretical analysis. The control of the propagation of the virus through vaccination is investigated and the case study of Liberia is discussed in detail.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.01079v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Ignorance can be evolutionarily beneficial', ['Jared M. Field', 'Michael B. Bonsall'], u'2017-05-02', u'Information is increasingly being viewed as a resource used by organisms to increase their fitness. Indeed, it has been formally shown that there is a sensible way to assign a reproductive value to information and it is non-negative. However, all of this work assumed that information collection is cost-free. Here, we account for such a cost and provide conditions for when the reproductive value of information will be negative. In these instances, counter-intuitively, it is in the interest of the organism to remain ignorant. We link our results to empirical studies where Bayesian behaviour appears to break down in complex environments and provide an alternative explanation of lowered arousal thresholds in the evolution of sleep.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.00987v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Assortative mating driving spatial divergence of mating trait in diploid species: how dominance influences population differentiation?', ['Charline Smadi', 'Helene Leman', 'Violaine Llaurens'], u'2017-05-02', u"Divergence between populations for a given trait can be driven by natural or sexual selection, interacting with migration behaviour. Mating preference for different phenotypes can lead to the emergence and persistence of differentiated populations. Dominance between alleles encoding for divergent phenotypes can interfere in such processes. Using a diploid model of trait determining both mating success and migration rate, we explored differentiation between two connected populations, assuming either co-dominance or strict dominance between alleles. The model assumes that individuals prefer mating with partners displaying the same phenotype and therefore tend to move to the other population when their phenotype is rare. We showed that the emergence of differentiated populations in this diploid moded is limited as compared to results obtained with the same model assuming haploidy. When assuming co-dominance, differentiation arises only when migration is limited as compared to preference. Such differentiation is less dependent on migration when assuming strict dominance between haplotypes. Dominant alleles frequently invade populations because their phenotype is more frequently expressed, resulting in higher mating success and rapid decrease in migration. However, depending on the initial distribution of alleles, this advantage associated with dominance (i.e. Haldane's sieve) may lead to fixation of the dominant allele throughout both populations. Depending on the initial distribution of heterozygotes, persistence of polymorphisms within populations can also occur because heterozygotes displaying the predominant phenotype benefit from mating preferences. Altogether, our results highlight that heterozygotes' behaviour has a strong impact on population differentiation and stress out the need of diploid models of differentiation and speciation driven by natural and sexual selection.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.00944v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'About new hybrid approach in cancer modeling', ['Yehor Surkov', 'Ihor Samofalov', 'Mironenko Anastasia'], u'2017-05-01', u'In the present article we demonstrate a new hybrid model of tumor growth. Our model is stochastic by tumor population development and strongly deterministic in cell motility dynamics and spatial propagation. In addition, it has excellent extendibility property. Described model is tested on general behavior and on avascular tumor growth case qualitatively.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.00666v1', ['Other'], []]
[u'Overcoming the ill-posedness through discretization in vector tomography: Reconstruction of irrotational vector fields', ['Alexandra Koulouri'], u'2017-04-27', u"Vector tomography methods intend to reconstruct and visualize vector fields in restricted domains by measuring line integrals of projections of these vector fields. Here, we deal with the reconstruction of irrotational vector functions from boundary measurements. As the majority of inverse problems, vector field recovery is an ill posed in the continuous domain and therefore further assumptions, measurements and constraints should be imposed for the full vector field estimation. The reconstruction idea in the discrete domain relies on solving a numerical system of linear equations which derives from the approximation of the line integrals along lines which trace the bounded domain. This work presents an extensive description of a vector field recovery, the fundamental assumptions and the ill conditioning of this inverse problem. More importantly we show that this inverse problem is regularized via the domain discretization, i.e. we show that the recovery of an irrotational vector field within a discrete grid employing a finite set of longitudinal line integrals, leads to a consistent linear system which has bounded solution errors. We elaborate on the estimation of the solution's error and we prove that this relative error is finite and therefore a stable vector field reconstruction is ensured. Such theoretical aspects are critical for future implementations of vector tomography in practical applications like the inverse bioelectric field problem. We validate our theoretical results by performing simulations that reconstruct smooth irrotational fields based solely on a finite number of boundary measurements and without the need of any additional or prior information (e.g. transversal line integrals or source free assumption).", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.00708v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
