[u'Network Analyses and Nervous System Disorders', ['John D. Medaglia', 'Danielle S. Bassett'], u'2017-01-04', u"Network analyses in nervous system disorders involves constructing and analyzing anatomical and functional brain networks from neuroimaging data to describe and predict the clinical syndromes that result from neuropathology. A network view of neurological disease and clinical syndromes facilitates accurate quantitative characterizations and mathematical models of complex nervous system disorders with relatively simple tools drawn from the field of graph theory. Networks are predominantly constructed from in vivo data acquired using physiological and neuroimaging techniques at the macroscale of nervous system organization. Studies support the emerging view that neuropsychiatric and neurological disorders result from pathological processes that disrupt the brain's economically wired small-world organization. The lens of network science offers theoretical insight into progressive neurodegeneration, neuropsychological dysfunction, and potential anatomical targets for intervensions ranging form pharmacological agents to brain stimulation.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.01101v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Dense Associative Memory is Robust to Adversarial Inputs', ['Dmitry Krotov', 'John J Hopfield'], u'2017-01-04', u'Deep neural networks (DNN) trained in a supervised way suffer from two known problems. First, the minima of the objective function used in learning correspond to data points (also known as rubbish examples or fooling images) that lack semantic similarity with the training data. Second, a clean input can be changed by a small, and often imperceptible for human vision, perturbation, so that the resulting deformed input is misclassified by the network. These findings emphasize the differences between the ways DNN and humans classify patterns, and raise a question of designing learning algorithms that more accurately mimic human perception compared to the existing methods. Our paper examines these questions within the framework of Dense Associative Memory (DAM) models. These models are defined by the energy function, with higher order (higher than quadratic) interactions between the neurons. We show that in the limit when the power of the interaction vertex in the energy function is sufficiently large, these models have the following three properties. First, the minima of the objective function are free from rubbish images, so that each minimum is a semantically meaningful pattern. Second, artificial patterns poised precisely at the decision boundary look ambiguous to human subjects and share aspects of both classes that are separated by that decision boundary. Third, adversarial images constructed by models with small power of the interaction vertex, which are equivalent to DNN with rectified linear units (ReLU), fail to transfer to and fool the models with higher order interactions. This opens up a possibility to use higher order models for detecting and stopping malicious adversarial attacks. The presented results suggest that DAM with higher order energy functions are closer to human visual perception than DNN with ReLUs.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.00939v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Encoding Sensory and Motor Patterns as Time-Invariant Trajectories in Recurrent Neural Networks', ['Vishwa Goudar', 'Dean Buonomano'], u'2017-01-03', u'Much of the information the brain processes and stores is temporal in nature - a spoken word or a handwritten signature is defined as much by how it unfolds in time as by its spatial structure at any given moment in time. It remains unclear how neural circuits encode such patterns. We show that the same recurrent neural network model can simultaneously encode time-varying sensory and motor patterns as continuous neural trajectories. Tuning the recurrent weights of the network improves its ability to store target spatiotemporal patterns, by sculpting its dynamics and binding each target pattern to a distinct voyage through neural phase space. Crucially, this representation endows the network with the brain-like property of temporal invariance - the network is able to identify the same stimulus played at different speeds. We demonstrate this framework with a network capable of robustly transcribing spoken digits to "handwritten" digits.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.00838v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Selection and Coalescence in a Finite State Model', ['Irwin Kuntz'], u'2017-01-04', u'To introduce selection into a model of coalescence, I explore the use of modified integer partitions that allow the identification of a preferred lineage. I show that a partition-partition transition matrix, along with Monte Carlo discrete time kinetics, treats both the neutral case and a wide range of positive and negative selection pressures for small population sizes. Selection pressure causes multiple collisions per generation, short coalescence times, increased lengths of terminal branches, increased tree asymmetry, and dependence of coalescence times on the logarithm of population size. These features are consistent with higher order coalescences that permit multiple collisions per generation. While the treatment is exact in terms of the simplified Wright-Fisher model used, it is not easily extended to large population size. Keywords: Selection, Coalescence, Integer Partitions, Multiple Collisions, Tree Asymmetry.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.01079v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Hierarchical tissue organization as a general mechanism to limit the accumulation of somatic mutations', ['Imre Derenyi', 'Gergely J. Szollosi'], u'2017-01-04', u'How can tissues generate large numbers of cells, yet keep the divisional load (the number of divisions along cell lineages) low in order to curtail the accumulation of somatic mutations and reduce the risk of cancer? To answer the question we consider a general model of hierarchically organized self-renewing tissues and show that the lifetime divisional load of such a tissue is independent of the details of the cell differentiation processes, and depends only on two structural and two dynamical parameters. Our results demonstrate that a strict analytical relationship exists between two seemingly disparate characteristics of self-renewing tissues: divisional load and tissue organization. Most remarkably, we find that a sufficient number of progressively slower dividing cell types can be almost as efficient in minimizing the divisional load, as non-renewing tissues. We argue that one of the main functions of tissue-specific stem cells and differentiation hierarchies is the prevention of cancer.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.00934v1', ['Populations and Evolution', 'Quantitative Methods', 'Tissues and Organs'], []]
[u'A model-based approach to assist variety evaluation in sunflower crop', ['Pierre Casadebaig', 'Emmanuelle Mestries', 'Philippe Debaeke'], u'2017-01-04', u"Assessing the performance and the characteristics (e.g. yield, quality, disease resistance, abiotic stress tolerance) of new varieties is a key component of crop performance improvement. However, the variety testing process is presently exclusively based on experimental field approaches which inherently reduces the number and the diversity of experienced combinations of varieties x environmental conditions in regard of the multiplicity of growing conditions within the cultivation area. Our aim is to make a greater and faster use of the information issuing from these trials using crop modeling and simulation to amplify the environmental and agronomic conditions in which the new varieties are tested. In this study, we present a model-based approach to assist variety testing and implement this approach on sunflower crop, using the SUNFLO simulation model and a subset of 80 trials from a large multi-environment trial (MET) conducted each year by agricultural extension services to compare newly released sunflower hybrids. After estimating parameter values (using plant phenotyping) to account for new genetic material, we independently evaluated the model prediction capacity on the MET (model accuracy was 54.4 %) and its capacity to rank commercial hybrids for performance level (Kendall's $\\tau$ = 0.41, P < 0.01). We then designed a numerical experiment by combining the previously tested genetic and new cropping conditions (2100 virtual trials) to determine the best varieties and related management in representative French production regions. We suggest that this approach could find operational outcomes to recommend varieties according to environment types. Such spatial management of genetic resources could potentially improve crop performance by reducing the genotype-phenotype mismatch in farming environments.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.00987v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
