[u'Sedimentation of Reversibly Interacting Macromolecules with Fluorescence Quenching', ['Sumit K. Chaturvedi', 'Huaying Zhao', 'Peter Schuck'], u'2017-01-09', u'Sedimentation velocity analytical ultracentrifugation with fluorescence detection has emerged as a powerful method for the study of interacting systems of macromolecules. It combines picomolar sensitivity with high hydrodynamic resolution, and can be carried out with photoswitchable fluorophores for multi-component discrimination, to determine the stoichiometry, affinity, and shape of macromolecular complexes with dissociation equilibrium constants from picomolar to micromolar. A popular approach for data interpretation is the determination of the binding affinity by isotherms of weight-average sedimentation coefficients sw. A prevailing dogma in sedimentation analysis is that the weight-average sedimentation coefficient from the transport method corresponds to the signal- and population-weighted average of all species. We show that this does not always hold true for systems that exhibit significant signal changes with complex formation -- properties that may be readily encountered in practice, e.g., from a change in fluorescence quantum yield. Coupled transport in the reaction boundary of rapidly reversible systems can make significant contributions to the observed migration in a way that cannot be accounted for in the standard population-based average. Effective particle theory provides a simple physical picture for the reaction-coupled migration process. On this basis we develop a more general binding model that converges to the well-known form of sw in the absence of quenching, but can account simultaneously for hydrodynamic co-transport in the presence of signal quenching. We believe this will be useful when studying interacting systems exhibiting fluorescence quenching or fluorescent energy transfer with transport methods.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.02287v1', ['Biomolecules'], []]
[u'Engineering Nanoscale Biological Molecular Motors', ['Chapin Korosec', 'Nancy R. Forde'], u'2017-01-06', u'Understanding the operation of biological molecular motors, nanoscale machines that transduce electrochemical energy into mechanical work, is enhanced by bottom-up strategies to synthesize novel motors.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.01776v1', ['Biomolecules', 'Subcellular Processes'], []]
[u'Deep driven fMRI decoding of visual categories', ['Michele Svanera', 'Sergio Benini', 'Gal Raz', 'Talma Hendler', 'Rainer Goebel', 'Giancarlo Valente'], u'2017-01-09', u'Deep neural networks have been developed drawing inspiration from the brain visual pathway, implementing an end-to-end approach: from image data to video object classes. However building an fMRI decoder with the typical structure of Convolutional Neural Network (CNN), i.e. learning multiple level of representations, seems impractical due to lack of brain data. As a possible solution, this work presents the first hybrid fMRI and deep features decoding approach: collected fMRI and deep learnt representations of video object classes are linked together by means of Kernel Canonical Correlation Analysis. In decoding, this allows exploiting the discriminatory power of CNN by relating the fMRI representation to the last layer of CNN (fc7). We show the effectiveness of embedding fMRI data onto a subspace related to deep features in distinguishing semantic visual categories based solely on brain imaging data.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.02133v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'How Mathematics can help in sensing instantaneous physiological information from photoplethysmography in a fast and reliable way', ['Antonio Cicone', 'Hau-Tieng Wu'], u'2017-01-09', u'Despite the population of the noninvasive, economic, comfortable, and easy-to-install photoplethysmography (PPG) sensor, a mathematically rigorous and stable algorithm to simultaneously extract the fundamental physiological information, including the instantaneous heart rate (IHR) and the instantaneous respiratory rate (IRR), from the single-channel PPG signal is lacking. A novel signal processing technique, called the de-shape synchrosqueezing transform, is provided to tackle this challenging task. The algorithm is applied to two publicly available batch databases, one is collected during intense physical activities, for the reproducibility purpose and the state-of-the-art results are obtained compared with existing reported outcomes. The results suggest the potential of the proposed algorithm to analyze the signal acquired from the widely available wearable devices, even when a subject exercises.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.02072v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Associative pattern recognition through macro-molecular self-assembly', ['Weishun Zhong', 'David J. Schwab', 'Arvind Murugan'], u'2017-01-06', u'We show that macro-molecular self-assembly can recognize and classify high-dimensional patterns in the concentrations of $N$ distinct molecular species. Similar to associative neural networks, the recognition here leverages dynamical attractors to recognize and reconstruct partially corrupted patterns. Traditional parameters of pattern recognition theory, such as sparsity, fidelity, and capacity are related to physical parameters, such as nucleation barriers, interaction range, and non-equilibrium assembly forces. Notably, we find that self-assembly bears greater similarity to continuous attractor neural networks, such as place cell networks that store spatial memories, rather than discrete memory networks. This relationship suggests that features and trade-offs seen here are not tied to details of self-assembly or neural network models but are instead intrinsic to associative pattern recognition carried out through short-ranged interactions. Such a relationship might show the features and trade-offs intrinsic to programming the mater.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.01769v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Morphognosis: the shape of knowledge in space and time', ['Thomas E. Portegys'], u'2017-01-05', u"Artificial intelligence research to a great degree focuses on the brain and behaviors that the brain generates. But the brain, an extremely complex structure resulting from millions of years of evolution, can be viewed as a solution to problems posed by an environment existing in space and time. The environment generates signals that produce sensory events within an organism. Building an internal spatial and temporal model of the environment allows an organism to navigate and manipulate the environment. Higher intelligence might be the ability to process information coming from a larger extent of space-time. In keeping with nature's penchant for extending rather than replacing, the purpose of the mammalian neocortex might then be to record events from distant reaches of space and time and render them, as though yet near and present, to the older, deeper brain whose instinctual roles have changed little over eons. Here this notion is embodied in a model called morphognosis (morpho = shape and gnosis = knowledge). Its basic structure is a pyramid of event recordings called a morphognostic. At the apex of the pyramid are the most recent and nearby events. Receding from the apex are less recent and possibly more distant events. A morphognostic can thus be viewed as a structure of progressively larger chunks of space-time knowledge. A set of morphognostics forms long-term memories that are learned by exposure to the environment. A cellular automaton is used as the platform to investigate the morphognosis model, using a simulated organism that learns and navigates its world in search of food, as well as the game of Pong.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.02272v1', ['Neurons and Cognition'], []]
[u'Mean field at distance one', ['Ka Yin Leung', 'Mirjam Kretzschmar', 'Odo Diekmann'], u'2017-01-09', u"To be able to understand how infectious diseases spread on networks, it is important to understand the network structure itself in the absence of infection. In this text we consider dynamic network models that are inspired by the (static) configuration network. The networks are described by population-level averages such as the fraction of the population with $k$ partners, $k=0,1,2,\\ldots$ This means that the bookkeeping contains information about individuals and their partners, but no information about partners of partners. Can we average over the population to obtain information about partners of partners? The answer is `it depends', and this is where the mean field at distance one assumption comes into play. In this text we explain that, yes, we may average over the population (in the right way) in the static network. Moreover, we provide evidence in support of a positive answer for the network model that is dynamic due to partnership changes. If, however, we additionally allow for demographic changes, dependencies between partners arise. In earlier work we used the slogan `mean field at distance one' as a justification of simply ignoring the dependencies. Here we discuss the subtleties that come with the mean field at distance one assumption, especially when demography is involved. Particular attention is given to the accuracy of the approximation in the setting with demography. Next, the mean field at distance one assumption is discussed in the context of an infection superimposed on the network. We end with the conjecture that a change in the bookkeeping leads to an exact description of the network structure.", u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.02128v1', ['Populations and Evolution'], []]
[u'Quadratic Programming Approach to Fit Protein Complexes into Electron Density Maps', ['Roman Pogodin', 'Alexander Katrutsa', 'Sergei Grudinin'], u'2017-01-09', u'The paper investigates the problem of fitting protein complexes into electron density maps. They are represented by high-resolution cryoEM density maps converted into overlapping matrices and partly show a structure of a complex. The general purpose is to define positions of all proteins inside it. This problem is known to be NP-hard, since it lays in the field of combinatorial optimization over a set of discrete states of the complex. We introduce quadratic programming approaches to the problem. To find an approximate solution, we convert a density map into an overlapping matrix, which is generally indefinite. Since the matrix is indefinite, the optimization problem for the corresponding quadratic form is non-convex. To treat non-convexity of the optimization problem, we use different convex relaxations to find which set of proteins minimizes the quadratic form best.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.02192v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], [u'MIPT, Skoltech', u'NANO-D, MIPT, Skoltech', u'NANO-D']]
[u'A novel entropy-based hierarchical clustering framework for ultrafast protein structure search and alignment', ['Bars Ekim'], u'2017-01-08', u'Identification and alignment of three-dimensional folding of proteins may yield useful information about relationships too remote to be detected by conventional methods, such as sequence comparison, and may potentially lead to prediction of patterns and motifs in mutual structural fragments. With the exponential increase of structural proteomics data, the methods that scale with the rate of increase of data lose efficiency. Hence, new methods that reduce the computational expense of this problem should be developed. We present a novel framework through which we are able to find and align protein structure neighbors via hierarchical clustering and entropy-based query search, and present a web-based protein database search and alignment tool to demonstrate the applicability of our approach. The resulting method replicates the results of the current gold standard with a minimal loss in sensitivity in a significantly shorter amount of time, while ameliorating the existing web workspace of protein structure comparison with a customized and dynamic web-based environment. Our tool serves as both a functional industrial means of protein structure comparison and a valid demonstration of heuristics in proteomics.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.01975v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'MatlabCompat.jl: helping Julia understand Your Matlab/Octave Code', ['Vardan Andriasyan', 'Yauhen Yakimovich', 'Artur Yakimovich'], u'2017-01-06', u'Scientific legacy code in MATLAB/Octave not compatible with modernization of research workflows is vastly abundant throughout academic community. Performance of non-vectorized code written in MATLAB/Octave represents a major burden. A new programming language for technical computing Julia, promises to address these issues. Although Julia syntax is similar to MATLAB/Octave, porting code to Julia may be cumbersome for researchers. Here we present MatlabCompat.jl - a library aimed at simplifying the conversion of your MATLAB/Octave code to Julia. We show using a simplistic image analysis use case that MATLAB/Octave code can be easily ported to high performant Julia using MatlabCompat.jl.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.02220v1', ['Quantitative Methods'], []]
[u'Large deviations theory for Markov jump models of chemical reaction networks', ['Andrea Agazzi', 'Amir Dembo', 'Jean-Pierre Eckmann'], u'2017-01-09', u'We prove a sample path Large Deviation Principle (LDP) for a class of jump processes whose rates are not uniformly Lipschitz continuous in phase space. Building on it we further establish the corresponding Wentzell-Freidlin (W-F) (infinite time horizon) asymptotic theory. These results apply to jump Markov processes that model the dynamics of chemical reaction networks under mass action kinetics, on a microscopic scale. We provide natural sufficient topological conditions for the applicability of our LDP and W-F results. This then justifies the computation of non-equilibrium potential and exponential transition time estimates between different attractors in the large volume limit, for systems that are beyond the reach of standard chemical reaction network theory.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.02126v1', ['Molecular Networks'], []]
[u'Distinguishing Mechanisms Underlying EMT Tristability', ['Dongya Jia', 'Mohit Kumar Jolly', 'Satyendra C. Tripathi', 'Petra Den Hollander', 'Bin Huang', 'Mingyang Lu', 'Muge Celiktas', 'Esmeralda Ramirez-Pena', 'Eshel Ben-Jacob', 'Jose N. Onuchic', 'Samir M. Hanash', 'Sendurai A. Mani', 'Herbert Levine'], u'2017-01-06', u'Background: The Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition (EMT) endows epithelial-looking cells with enhanced migratory ability during embryonic development and tissue repair. EMT can also be co-opted by cancer cells to acquire metastatic potential and drug-resistance. Recent research has argued that epithelial (E) cells can undergo either a partial EMT to attain a hybrid epithelial/mesenchymal (E/M) phenotype that typically displays collective migration, or a complete EMT to adopt a mesenchymal (M) phenotype that shows individual migration. The core EMT regulatory network - miR-34/SNAIL/miR-200/ZEB1 - has been identified by various studies, but how this network regulates the transitions among the E, E/M, and M phenotypes remains controversial. Two major mathematical models - ternary chimera switch (TCS) and cascading bistable switches (CBS) - that both focus on the miR-34/SNAIL/miR-200/ZEB1 network, have been proposed to elucidate the EMT dynamics, but a detailed analysis of how well either or both of these two models can capture recent experimental observations about EMT dynamics remains to be done. Results: Here, via an integrated experimental and theoretical approach, we first show that both these two models can be used to understand the two-step transition of EMT - E-E/M-M, the different responses of SNAIL and ZEB1 to exogenous TGF-b and the irreversibility of complete EMT. Next, we present new experimental results that tend to discriminate between these two models. We show that ZEB1 is present at intermediate levels in the hybrid E/M H1975 cells, and that in HMLE cells, overexpression of SNAIL is not sufficient to initiate EMT in the absence of ZEB1 and FOXC2. Conclusions: These experimental results argue in favor of the TCS model proposing that miR-200/ZEB1 behaves as a three-way decision-making switch enabling transitions among the E, hybrid E/M and M phenotypes.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.01746v1', ['Molecular Networks', 'Cell Behavior'], []]
[u'Metabolite patterns reveal regulatory responses to genetic perturbations', ['Tolutola Oyetunde', 'Jeffrey Czajka', 'Gang Wu', 'Cynthia Lo', 'Yinjie Tang'], u'2017-01-06', u'Genetic and environmental perturbation experiments have been used to study microbes in a bid to gain insight into transcriptional regulation, adaptive evolution, and other cellular dynamics. These studies have potential in enabling rational strain design. Unfortunately, experimentally determined intracellular flux distribution are often inconsistent or incomparable due to different experimental conditions and methodologies. Computational strain design relies on constraint-based reconstruction and analysis (COBRA) techniques to predict the effect of gene knockouts such as flux balance analysis (FBA), regulatory on/off minimization(ROOM), minimization of metabolic adjustment (MOMA), relative optimality in metabolic networks (RELATCH). Most of these knock-out prediction methods are based on conserving inherent flux patterns (between wild type and mutant) that are thought to be representative of the cellular regulatory structure. However, it has been recently demonstrated that these methods show poor agreement with experimental data. To improve the fidelity of knockout predictions and subsequent computational strain design, we developed REMEP, a metabolite-centric method. We demonstrate the improved performance of REMEP by comparing the different methods on experimental knockout data of E. coli, and S. cerevisiae grown in batch cultures. REMEP retains most of the features of earlier algorithms but is much more accurate in capturing cellular responses to genetic perturbations. A primary reason for this is that REMEP relies on the assumption that cellular regulatory structure leaves a signature on metabolite patterns and not just flux patterns. REMEP will also prove useful in uncovering novel insights into cellular regulation and control.', u'http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.01744v1', ['Molecular Networks'], []]
