[u'Rapid culture of Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis (MAP) from patients remains a challenge.  During the process of developing a rapid culture method for MAP, we found that there is an alternative growth behavior present in MAP, MAH (Mycobacterium avium subspecies hominissuis) and other bacteria such as Staphylococcus aureus, and Staphylococcus pseudintermedius.  The bacterial DNA, RNA and proteins are present in the supernatants of the liquid culture media after routine microcentrifugation. When cultured in the solid media plate, there are a limited number of colonies developed for MAP and MAH disproportionate to the growth.  We believe there is an alternative growth behavior for MAP, MAH and other bacteria similar to phenoptosis.  Based on the alternative bacterial growth behavior, we tested 62 blood culture specimens that have been reported negative by routine automated blood culture method after 5 days of incubation. We used alternative culture media and molecular diagnostic techniques to test these negative culture bottles, and we found a large percentage of bacterial growth by alternative culture media (32%) and by molecular PCR amplification using 16s rDNA primer set and DNA sequencing (69%).  The sensitivity of detection by the molecular PCR/sequencing method is significantly higher than by routine automated blood culture.  Given the challenge of early diagnosis of sepsis in the hospital setting, it is necessary to develop more sensitive and faster diagnostic tools to guide clinical practice and improve the outcome of sepsis management.', u'Viruses are trifurcated into eukaryotic, archaeal and bacterial categories. This domain-specific ecology underscores why eukaryotic genes are typically co-opted by eukaryotic viruses and bacterial genes are commonly found in bacteriophages. However, the presence of bacteriophages in symbiotic bacteria that obligately reside in eukaryotes may promote eukayotic DNA transfers to bacteriophages. By sequencing full genomes from purified bacteriophage WO particles of Wolbachia, we discover a novel eukaryotic association module with various animal proteins domains, such as the black widow latrotoxin-CTD, that are uninterrupted in intact bacteriophage genomes, enriched with eukaryotic protease cleavage sites, and combined with additional domains to forge some of the largest bacteriophage genes (up to 14,256 bp). These various protein domain families are central to eukaryotic functions and have never before been reported in packaged bacteriophages, and their phylogeny, distribution and sequence diversity implies lateral transfer from animal to bacteriophage genomes. We suggest that the evolution of these eukaryotic protein domains in bacteriophage WO parallels the evolution of eukaryotic genes in canonical eukaryotic viruses, namely those commandeered for viral life cycle adaptations. Analogous selective pressures and evolutionary outcomes may occur in bacteriophage WO as a result of its "two-fold cell challenge" to persist in and traverse cells of obligate intracellular bacteria that strictly reside in animal cells.  Finally, the full WO genome sequences and identification of attachment sites will advance eventual genetic manipulation of Wolbachia for disease control strategies.', u"The splicing factor gene, U2AF1, is recurrently mutated in a variety of human cancers, including lung adenocarcinomas. The most frequent U2AF1 mutant, U2AF1 p.Ser34Phe (S34F), induces specific changes in splicing that we collectively refer to as 'S34F-associated splicing', but it is unclear how these splicing changes are regulated. Moreover, while a wild-type U2AF1 allele is retained in all cancers expressing a U2AF1 mutation, the functional significance of the retained wild-type allele is unknown. \n    Our analysis of published data on human lung adenocarcinomas indicates that lung adenocarcinomas carrying a U2AF1 S34F allele exhibit a wide range of mutant to wild-type U2AF1 (S34F:WT) mRNA ratios, which can be partially attributed to copy number variation at the U2AF1 locus. S34F:WT mRNA ratios, rather than absolute levels of U2AF1 S34F or total U2AF1 mRNA, correlate positively with the magnitude of S34F-associated splicing in lung adenocarcinoma transcriptomes. To examine the effect of S34F:WT ratios on S34F-associated splicing directly, we modified a human bronchial epithelial cell line so that U2AF1 S34F is expressed at one of the two endogenous U2AF1 loci and the S34F:WT mRNA ratio approximates one. By altering the levels of mutant or wild-type U2AF1 in this engineered cell line, we show that the degree of S34F-associated splicing is proportional to the ratio of S34F:WT gene products and not to absolute levels of either the mutant or wild-type factor. Further, we show that in nearly all cases, S34F-associated splicing alterations are largely explained by the different RNA binding affinities of recombinant protein complexes containing wild-type or mutant U2AF1. Together, these observations suggest that wild-type U2AF1 is a negative regulator of S34F-associated splicing, at least in part through differential binding to 3' splice sites. Finally, we show that the U2AF1 S34F allele does not behave like some oncogenes: the mutated gene does not induce cell transformation, and lung adenocarcinoma cell lines are not dependent on it for growth in vitro or in vivo. Wild-type U2AF1, however, is absolutely required for cell survival, regardless of whether the cells carry the U2AF1 S34F allele. \n    We conclude that wild-type U2AF1 has two important functions in U2AF1 S34F-expressing lung cancers: it controls the magnitude of S34F-associated splicing, and it is essential for cell survival.", u'Cancers are complex diseases that are regulated by multiple signaling pathways. Patients often acquire resistance to single drug treatment. Use of drug combinations that target multiple parallel pathways is a promising strategy to reduce the drug resistance. Pharmacogenomics big data are being generated to uncover complex signaling mechanisms of cancers and correlate cancer-specific signaling with diverse drug responses. Thus, converting pharmacogenomics big data into knowledge can help the discovery of synergistic drug combination. However, it is challenging and remains an open problem due to the enormous number of combination possibilities and noise of genomics data.', u'The characterization of the distribution of mutational effects is a key goal in evolutionary biology. \nRecently developed deep-sequencing approaches allow for accurate and simultaneous estimation of the fitness effects of hundreds of engineered mutations by monitoring their relative abundance across time points in a single bulk competition.  \nNaturally, the achievable resolution of the estimated fitness effects depends on the specific experimental setup, the organism and type of mutations studied, the sequencing technology utilized, among other factors.\nBy means of analytical approximations and simulations, we provide guidelines for optimizing time-sampled deep-sequencing bulk competition experiments, focusing on the number of mutants, the sequencing depth, and the number of sampled time points. \nOur analytical results show that sampling more time points together with extending the duration of the experiment improves the achievable precision disproportionately as compared with increasing the sequencing depth, or reducing the number of competing mutants.\nEven if the duration of the experiment is fixed, sampling more time points and clustering these at the beginning and the end of the experiment increases experimental power, and allows the efficient and precise assessment of the entire range of selection coefficients.\nFinally, we provide a formula for calculating the 95%-confidence interval for the measurement error estimate, which we implement as an interactive web tool. This allows for quantification of the maximum expected a prioriprecision of the experimental setup, as well as for a statistical threshold for determining deviations from neutrality for specific selection coefficient estimates.', u'Disorders of the brain exhibit considerable epidemiological comorbidity and frequently share symptoms, provoking debate about the extent of their etiologic overlap. Here we apply linkage disequilibrium score regression (LDSC) to quantify the extent of shared genetic contributions across 23 brain disorders (n=842,820), 11 quantitative and four dichotomous traits of interest (n=722,125) based on genome-wide association meta-analyses. Psychiatric disorders show substantial sharing of common variant risk, while many neurological disorders appear more distinct from one another, suggesting substantive differences in the specificity of the genetic etiology of these disorders. Further, we observe little evidence of widespread sharing of the common genetic risk between neurological and psychiatric disorders studied. In addition, we identify significant sharing of genetic influences between the certain quantitative measures and brain disorders, including major depressive disorder and neuroticism personality score. These results highlight the importance of common genetic variation as a source of risk for brain disorders and the potential of using heritability methods to obtain a more comprehensive view of the genetic architecture of brain phenotypes.', u'The brain generates oscillatory neuronal activity at a broad range of frequencies and the presence and amplitude of certain oscillations at specific times and in specific brain regions are highly correlated with states of arousal, sleep, and with a wide range of cognitive processes. The neuronal mechanisms underlying the generation of brain rhythms are poorly understood, particularly for low-frequency oscillations. We recently reported that respiration-locked olfactory bulb activity causes delta band (0.5 - 4 Hz) oscillatory neuronal activity in the whisker sensory (barrel) cortex in mice. Furthermore, gamma oscillations (30 - 100Hz), which are widely implicated in cognitive processing, were power-modulated in synchrony with the respiratory rhythm. These findings link afferent sensory activity caused by respiration directly to cortical rhythms associated with cognitive functions. Here we review the related literature and present new evidence to propose that respiration has a direct influence on oscillatory cortical activity, including gamma oscillations, and on transitions between synchronous and asynchronous cortical network states (marked by phase transitions). Oscillatory cortical activity, as well as phase transitions, has been implicated in cognitive functions, potentially linking respiratory phase to cognitive processing. We further argue that respiratory influence on cortical activity is present in most, and possibly in all areas of the neocortex in mice and humans. We furthermore suggest that respiration had a role in modulating cortical rhythms from early mammalian evolution. Early mammals relied strongly on their olfactory sense and had proportionately large olfactory bulbs. We propose that to this day the respiratory rhythm remains an integral element of dynamic cortical activity in mammals. We argue that breathing modulates all cortical functions, including cognitive and emotional processes, which could elucidate the well-documented but largely unexplained effects of respiratory exercises on mood and cognitive function.', u'The rapid evolution of drug resistance remains a critical public health concern. The treatment of influenza A virus (IAV) has proven particularly challenging, due to the ability of the virus to develop resistance against current antivirals and vaccines. Here we evaluate a novel antiviral drug therapy, favipiravir, for which the mechanism of action in IAV involves an interaction with the viral RNA- dependent RNA polymerase resulting in an effective increase in the viral mutation rate. We utilize an experimental evolution framework, combined with novel population genetic method development for inference from time-sampled data, in order to evaluate the effectiveness of favipiravir against IAV. Evaluating whole genome polymorphism data across fifteen time points under multiple drug concentrations and in controls, we present the first evidence for the ability of viral populations to effectively adapt to low concentrations of favipiravir. In contrast, under high concentrations, we observe population extinction, indicative of mutational meltdown. We discuss the observed dynamics with respect to the evolutionary forces at play and emphasize the utility of evolutionary theory to inform drug development.', u'We present user-friendly and adaptable software to provide biologists, clinical researchers and possibly diagnostic clinicians with the ability to robustly detect and reconstruct viral genomes from complex deep sequence datasets. A set of modular bioinformatic tools and workflows was implemented as the Metavisitor package in the Galaxy framework. Using the graphical Galaxy workflow editor, users with minimal computational skills can use existing Metavisitor workflows or adapt them to suit specific needs by adding or modifying analysis modules. Metavisitor can be used on our Mississippi server, or can be installed on any Galaxy server instance and a pre-configured Metavisitor server image is provided. Metavisitor works with DNA, RNA or small RNA sequencing data over a range of read lengths and can use a combination of de novo and guided approaches to assemble genomes from sequencing reads. We show that the software has the potential for quick diagnosis as well as discovery of viruses from a vast array of organisms. Importantly, we provide here executable Metavisitor use cases, which increase the accessibility and transparency of the software, ultimately enabling biologists or clinicians to focus on biological or medical questions.', u'The study of the circadian clock has benefited greatly from using Drosophila as a model system. Yet, accumulating evidence suggests that the fly might not be the canonical insect model. Here, we have analysed the circadian transcriptome of the Jewl wasp Nasonia vitripennis by using RNA-seq in both constant darkness and constant light (in contrast to flies, the wasps are rhythmic under continuous light). We identify approximately 6% of the transcriptome as cycling under constant conditions, revealing a bimodal distribution of phases and low cycling amplitude. We examine the functions under circadian control in Nasonia, identifying clock control of functions such as metabolism, light response, and a variety of neural processes, drawing comparisons between Nasonia and Drosophila. We characterise the transcriptional differences underlying phenotypic differences in free-running circadian behaviour in constant darkness and constant light, revealing significant down-regulation of catabolic processes in constant light. We also profile levels of opsins transcription, gaining insight into how Nasonia responds to light, which is a key question in circadian research in the Hymenoptera.   Although there was little similarity between cycling genes in Drosophila and Nasonia, the functions fulfilled by cycling transcripts were similar in both species. Of the known Drosophila core clock genes, only pdp1e, shaggy and Clock showed a significant cycling in Nasonia, underscoring the importance of studying the clock in non-model organisms.', u'We develop membrane voltage nanosensors that are based on inorganic semiconductor nanoparticles. These voltage nanosensors are designed to self-insert into the cell membrane and optically record the membrane potential via the quantum confined Stark effect, with single-particle sensitivity. We present here the approach, design rules, and feasibility proves for this concept. With further improvements, semiconductor nanoparticles could potentially be used to study signals from many neurons in a large field-of-view over a long duration. Moreover, they could potentially report and resolve voltage signals on the nanoscale.', u'Desert locusts (Schistocerca gregaria) show a dramatic form of socially induced phenotypic plasticity known as phase polyphenism.  In the absence of conspecifics, locusts occur in a shy and cryptic solitarious phase.  Crowding with conspecifics drives a behavioural transformation towards gregariousness that occurs within hours and is followed by changes in physiology, colouration and morphology, resulting in the full gregarious phase syndrome.  We analysed methylation-sensitive amplified fragment length polymorphisms (MS-AFLP) to compare the effect of acute and chronic crowding on DNA methylation in the central nervous system.  We find that crowd-reared and solitary-reared locusts show markedly different neural MS-AFLP fingerprints.  However, crowding for a day resulted in neural MS-AFLP fingerprints that were clearly distinct from both crowd-reared and uncrowded solitary-reared locusts.  Our results indicate that changes in DNA methylation associated with behavioural gregarisation proceed through intermediate states that are not simply partial realisations of the endpoint states.', u"Motivation: Plasmids are stably maintained extra-chromosomal genetic elements that replicate independently from the host cell's chromosomes. Although plasmids harbor biomedically important genes, (such as genes involved in virulence and antibiotics resistance), there is a shortage of specialized software tools for extracting and assembling plasmid data from whole genome sequencing projects.\nResults: We present the plasmidSPAdes algorithm and software tool for assembling plasmids from whole genome sequencing data and benchmark its performance on a diverse set of bacterial genomes.\nAvailability and implementation: PLASMID SPADES is publicly available at http://spades.bioinf.spbau.ru/plasmidSPAdes/", u'Why do many animals live well beyond their reproductive period? This seems counter to the theory that the fraction of life spent reproducing should be maximized in order to maximize the number of offspring produced in each generation. To resolve this paradox, hypotheses have been developed that evoke parental or grandparental care as reasons for post-reproductive life (e.g., the Mother and Grandmother Hypotheses). However, these hypotheses fail to explain the presence of post-reproductive life in organisms that do not care for their young, such as Caenorhabditis elegans. Here we show that a candidate proxy of the stress of childbirth explains a large portion of the variance in post-reproductive lifespans across many species. A remarkably simple metric, the offspring ratio (ratio of the size or weight of offspring to that of the mother) explained 77% of the variance of the post-reproductive lifespan in a sample drawn from widely dispersed taxa. Our results suggest that the stress of childbirth is an important and conserved determinant of post-reproductive lifespan. Thus, long post-reproductive lifespan may simply be a byproduct of the somatic health required for reproduction of large progeny, regardless of parental care.', u'Many features of viral populations make them excellent candidates for population genetic study, including a very high rate of mutation, high levels of nucleotide diversity, exceptionally large census population sizes, and frequent positive selection. However, these attributes also mean that special care must be taken in population genetic inference. For example, highly skewed offspring distributions, frequent and severe population bottleneck events associated with infection and compartmentalization, and strong purifying selection all affect the distribution of genetic variation but are often not taken in to account. Here, we draw particular attention to multiple-merger coalescent events and background selection, discuss potential mis-inference associated with these processes, and highlight potential avenues for better incorporating them in to future population genetic analyses.', u'Streptococcus pneumoniae (pneumococcus) is the main etiological agent of pneumonia. Pneumococcal pneumonia is initiated by bacterial adherence to lung epithelial cells. Infection to the epithelium is a disruptive interspecies interaction involving numerous transcription-mediated processes. Revealing transcriptional changes may provide valuable insights into pneumococcal disease. Dual RNA-Seq allows simultaneous monitoring of the transcriptomes of both host and pathogen. Here, we developed a time-resolved infection model of human lung alveolar epithelial cells by S. pneumoniae and assessed transcriptome changes by dual RNA-Seq. Our data provide new insights into host-microbe interactions and show that the epithelial glutathione-detoxification pathway is activated by bacterial presence. We observed that adherent pneumococci, not free-floating bacteria, access host-associated carbohydrates and repress innate immune responses. In conclusion, we provide a dynamic dual-transcriptomics overview of early pneumococcal infection with easy online access (http://dualrnaseq.molgenrug.nl). Further database exploration may expand our understanding of epithelial-pneumococcal interaction, leading to novel antimicrobial strategies.', u'Although both RNA and proteins have densely packed native structures, chain organizations of these two biopolymers are fundamentally different. Motivated by the recent discoveries in chromatin folding that interphase chromosomes have territorial organization with signatures pointing to metastability, we analyzed the biomolecular structures deposited in the Protein Data Bank and found that the intrachain contact probabilities, P(s) as a function of the arc length s, decay in power-law ~ s\u2212\u03b3 over the intermediate range of s, 10 \u2264  s \u2264 110. We found that the contact probability scaling exponent is \u03b3 \u2248 1.11 for large RNA (N > 110), \u03b3 \u2248 1.41 for small sized RNA (N < 110), and \u03b3 \u2248 1.65 for proteins. Given that Gaussian statistics is expected for a fully equilibrated chain in polymer melts, the deviation of \u03b3 value from \u03b3 \u2248 1.5 for the subchains of large RNA in the native state suggests that the chain configuration of RNA is not fully equilibrated. It is visually clear that folded structures of large sized RNA (N>110) adopt crumpled structures, partitioned into modular multi-domains assembled by proximal sequences along the chain, whereas the polypeptide chain of folded proteins looks better mixed with the rest of the structure. Our finding of \u03b3 \u2248 1 for large RNA might be an ineluctable consequence of the hierarchical ordering of the secondary to tertiary elements in the folding process.', u'The genetic component of complex disease risk in humans remains\nlargely unexplained. A corollary is that the allelic spectrum of\ngenetic variants contributing to complex disease risk is\nunknown. Theoretical models that relate population genetic processes\nto the maintenance of genetic variation for quantitative traits may\nsuggest profitable avenues for future experimental design. Here we use\nforward simulation to model a genomic region evolving under a balance\nbetween recurrent deleterious mutation and Gaussian stabilizing\nselection.  We consider three different genetic models, two different\npopulation growth models, and several different methods for\nidentifying genomic regions harboring variants associated with complex\ndisease risk. We demonstrate that the genetic model, relating genotype\nto phenotype, has a qualitative effect on the genetic architecture of\na complex trait. In particular, the variance component partitioning\nacross the allele frequency spectrum and the power of statistical\ntests is more affected by the assumed genetic model than by population\ngrowth. Models with incomplete recessivity most closely match the minor allele frequency distribution of significant hits from empirical genome-wide association studies. Such models show little dominance variance, which is consistent with recent empirical estimates of heritability explained by typed markers. We highlight a particular model of incomplete recessivity that is appealing from first principles. Under that model, deleterious mutations at the same gene partially fail to complement one another. Interestingly this gene-based model predicts considerable levels of unexplained variance associated with within locus epistasis. Our results suggest a need for improvement of statistical tools for region based genetic association and heritability estimation.', u"Hearing, vision, touch -- underlying all of these senses is stimulus selectivity, a robust information processing operation in which cortical neurons respond more to some stimuli than to others. Previous models assume that these neurons receive the highest weighted input from an ensemble encoding the preferred stimulus, but dendrites enable other possibilities.  Non-linear dendritic processing can produce stimulus selectivity based on the spatial distribution of synapses, even if the total preferred stimulus weight does not exceed that of non-preferred stimuli. Using a multi-subunit non-linear model, we demonstrate that selectivity can arise from the spatial distribution of synapses.  Moreover, we show that this implementation of stimulus selectivity increases the neuron's robustness to synaptic and dendritic failure. Contrary to an equivalent linear model, our model can maintain stimulus selectivity even when 50% of synapses fail or when more than 50% of dendrites fail. We then use a Layer 2/3 biophysical neuron model to show that our implementation is consistent with recent experimental observations, of a mixture of selectivities in dendrites, that can differ from the somatic selectivity, and of hyperpolarization broadening somatic tuning without affecting dendritic tuning. Our model predicts that an initially non-selective neuron can become selective when depolarized. In addition to motivating new experiments, the model's increased robustness to synapses and dendrites loss provides a starting point for fault-resistant neuromorphic chip development.", u'Plants obtain soil-resident elements that support growth and metabolism via water-mediated flow facilitated by transpiration and active transport processes. The availability of elements in the environment interact with the genetic capacity of organisms to modulate element uptake through plastic adaptive responses, such as homeostasis. These interactions should cause the elemental contents of plants to vary such that the effects of genetic polymorphisms influencing elemental accumulation will be dramatically dependent on the environment in which the plant is grown. To investigate genotype by environment interactions underlying elemental accumulation, we analyzed levels of elements in maize kernels of the Intermated B73 x Mo17 (IBM) recombinant inbred population grown in 10 different environments spanning a total of six locations and five different years. We identified quantitative trait loci controlling elemental accumulation by considering individual elemental accumulation measurements as traits and by mapping the loci responsible for variation in co-regulated multi-elemental traits identified using principle components analysis. These approaches detected partially overlapping sets of loci, many of which were found only in a single growout. We applied our multi-element approach across all of the growouts and found that the growth environment has a profound effect on the elemental profile and that some multi-element phenotypes correlate with specific environmental variables. We identified QTL by environment interactions (QEIs) through three methods: linear modeling with environmental covariates, QTL analysis on trait differences between growouts, and QTL analysis on factors obtained from a principle component derived model of ionome variation across environments. Overall, we were able to map 79 elemental QTL, 101 principal component QTL, and several instances of QEI, indicating that elemental profiles are highly heritable, interrelated, and responsive to the environment.', u'CARMA - CARDs, a single MALT1, cleavage and CLAP : an old story. The type 1 paracaspases are defined by their domain composition with an N-terminal Death-domain, immunoglobulin domains and a caspase-like (paracaspase) domain. Type 1 paracaspases originated in the Ediacaran geological period before the last common ancestor of bilaterans and cnidarians (planulozoa). Cnidarians have several paralog type 1 paracaspases, type 2 paracaspases, and a homolog of Bcl10 (CLAP). Notably in bilaterans, lineages like nematodes and insects lack Bcl10 whereas other lineages such as vertebrates, hemichordates, annelids and molluscs do contain Bcl10. A survey of invertebrate CARD-coiled-coil (CC) domain homologs of CARMA/CARD9 revealed such homologs only in species with Bcl10, indicating an ancient co-evolution of the entire CARD-CC/Bcl10/MALT1 (CBM) complex. There seems to be a correlation where invertebrates with CARD-CC and Bcl10 have type 1 paracaspases which are more similar to the paracaspases found in vertebrates. A proposed evolutionary scenario includes two ancestral type 1 paracaspase paralogs in the bilateran last common ancestor, where one paralog usually is dependent on CARD-CC/Bcl10 for its function. Functional analyses of invertebrate type 1 paracaspases and Bcl10 homologs support this scenario and indicate an ancient origin of the Bcl10/paracaspase signalling complex.', u'Abstract\nMotivation: Predict whether a mutation is deleterious based on the custom 3D model of a protein.\nMethods: We have developed modict, a mutation prediction tool which is based on per residue rmsd (root mean square deviation) values of superimposed 3D protein models. Our mathematical algorithm was tested for 42 described mutations in multiple genes including renin, beta-tubulin, biotinidase, sphingomyelin phosphodiesterase-1, phenylalanine hydroxylase and medium chain Acyl-Coa dehydrogenase. Moreover, modict scores corresponded to experimentally verified residual enzyme activities in mutated biotinidase, phenylalanine hydroxylase and medium chain Acyl-CoA dehydrogenase. Several commercially available prediction algorithms were tested and results were\ncompared. The modict perl package and the manual can be downloaded from\nhttps://github.com/MODICT/MODICT.\nConclusion: We show here that modict is capable tool for mutation effect prediction at the protein level, using superimposed 3D protein models instead of sequence based algorithms used by polyphen and sift.\nKeywords: prediction; 3D protein model; bioinformatics', u'In addition to its role in forming vesicles from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), the coat protein complex II (COPII) is also responsible for selecting specific cargo proteins to be packaged into COPII transport vesicles. Comparison of COPII vesicle formation in mammalian systems and in yeast suggested that the former employs more elaborate mechanisms for cargo recognition, presumably to cope with a significantly expanded repertoire of cargo that transits the secretory pathway. Using proTGF\u03b1, the transmembrane precursor of transforming growth factor alpha (TGF\u03b1), as a model cargo protein, we demonstrate in cell-free assays that at least one auxiliary cytosolic factor is specifically required for the efficient packaging of proTGF\u03b1 into COPII vesicles. Using a knockout HeLa cell line generated by CRISPR/Cas9, we provide functional evidence showing that a transmembrane protein, Cornichon-1 (CNIH), acts as a cargo receptor of proTGF\u03b1. We show that both CNIH and the auxiliary cytosolic factor(s) are required for efficient recruitment of proTGF\u03b1 to the COPII coat in vitro. Moreover, we provide evidence that the recruitment of cargo protein by the COPII coat precedes and may be distinct from subsequent cargo packaging into COPII vesicles.', u'Background.  Resequencing efforts are uncovering the extent of genetic variation in humans and provide data to study the evolutionary processes shaping our genome.  One recurring puzzle in both intra- and inter-species studies is the high frequency of complex mutations comprising multiple nearby base substitutions or insertion-deletions.  We devised a generalized mutation model to study the role of template switch events in the origin of such mutation clusters. \n\nResults.  Applied to the human genome, our model detects thousands of template switch events during the evolution of human and chimp from their common ancestor, and hundreds of events between two independently sequenced human genomes.  While many of these are consistent with the inter-strand template switch mechanism proposed for bacteria, our model also identifies new types of mutations that create short inversions, some flanked by paired inverted repeats.  This local template switch process creates numerous complex mutation patterns, including secondary structures, and explains multi-nucleotide mutations and compensatory substitutions without invoking positive selection.  Detection of these complex mutations with current resequencing methodologies is difficult and we find many erroneous variant annotations in human reference data. \n\nConclusions.  Previously unexplained short template switch events account for a large number of complex mutation patterns in human evolution, without invoking complicated and speculative mechanisms or implausible coincidence.  We show that clustered sequence differences are challenging for mapping and variant calling methods.  Template switch events such as those we have uncovered may have been neglected as an explanation for complex mutations because of biases in commonly used analyses.  Incorporation of our model into analysis pipelines will lead to improved understanding of genome variation and evolution.', u'Despite being heritable and under selection, traits often do not appear to evolve as predicted by evolutionary theory. Indeed, conclusive evidence for contemporary adaptive evolution remains elusive in wild vertebrate populations, and stasis seems to be the norm. This so-called stasis paradox highlights our inability when it comes to predicting evolutionary change. This is especially concerning in the context of rapid anthropogenic environmental changes, and its underlying causes are therefore hotly debated.\nApplying a quantitative genetic framework to data from the long-term monitoring of a wild rodent population, we here show that stasis is an illusion. Indeed, the population has evolved to become lighter, and this genetic change is an adaptive response related to climate. Importantly however, both this evolutionary change and the selective pressures driving it are not apparent on the phenotypic level.  \nWe thereby demonstrate that natural populations can show a rapid and adaptive evolutionary response in response to novel selective pressures, but that these may easily go undetected and may not match phenotypic estimates of selection. Hence, evolutionary stasis is likely to be less common than it appears.', u'Whole-genome sequencing of pathogenic organisms directly from clinical samples combines\n12 detection and genotyping in one step. This can speed up diagnosis, especially for slow-growing\n13 organisms like Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb), which need considerable time to grow in\n14 subculture, and can provide vital information for effective personalised treatment. Within the\n15 PATHSEEK project, we have developed a bait-capture approach to selectively enrich DNA/RNA from\n16 specific bacterial and viral pathogens present in clinical samples. Here, we present a variation of the\n17 method that allows enrichment of large fragments of target DNA for sequencing on an Oxford\n18 Nanopore MinION sequencer. We enriched and sequenced cDNA from Influenza A (FluA), genomic\n19 DNA (gDNA) from human cytomegalovirus (CMV) and from two strains of Mtb, and present an\n20 evaluation of the method together with analysis of the sequencing results from a MinION and an\n21 Illumina MiSeq sequencer. While unenriched FluA and CMV samples had no reads matching the\n22 target organism due to the high background of DNA from host cell lines, enriched samples had 56.7%\n23 and 90.9% on-target reads respectively for the best quality Nanopore reads.', u'Prokaryotic cell-free systems are currently heavily used for the production of\nprotein that can be otherwise challenging to produce in cells. However, historically cell-free systems were used to explore natural phenomena before the advent of genetic modification and transformation technology. Recently, synthetic biology has seen a resurgence of this historical use of cell-free systems as a prototyping tool of synthetic and natural genetic circuits. For these cell-free systems to be effective prototyping tools, an understanding of cell-free system mechanics must be established that is not purely protein-expression driven. Here we discuss the development of E. coli-based cell-free systems, with an emphasis on documenting published extract and energy preparation methods into a uniform format. We also discuss additional considerations when applying cell-free systems to synthetic biology.', u"A 'Ten Simple Rules' guide to git and GitHub. We describe and provide examples on how to use these software to track projects, as users, teams and organizations. We document collaborative development using branching and forking, interaction between collaborators using issues and continuous integration and automation using, for example, Travis CI and codevoc. We also describe dissemination and social aspects of GitHub such as GitHub pages, following and watching repositories, and give advice on how to make code citable.", u'We examined the recently-discovered phenomenon of Adaptation-Induced Blindness (AIB) in which exposure to a rapidly flickering grating causes a gradually on-ramped static grating to remain invisible even as it reaches high contrast. We compared this approach to a more traditional paradigm measuring threshold elevation for low contrast stimuli after adaptation. Using very similar stimuli to those in the original experiment, we found post-adaptation threshold elevations were equivalent for both gradual and abruptly onset test stimuli, and both displayed orientation-tuned adaptation, with partial interocular transfer. Then, using full-contrast test stimuli with either abrupt or gradual onsets, we tested the \u2018disappearance\u2019 of these stimuli in a paradigm similar to that of the original AIB experiment. If, as the original authors suggested, AIB were a high-level (perhaps parietal) effect resulting from the \u2018gating\u2019 of awareness, we would not expect the effects of AIB to be tuned to the adapting orientation, and the effect should transfer between the eyes. Instead, we found that AIB (which was present only for the gradual onset test stimuli) was very tightly orientation-tuned and showed absolutely no interocular transfer. Our results therefore suggest a very early cortical locus for this effect.', u'Human recombination rate varies greatly, but the forces shaping it remain incompletely understood. Here, we study the relationship between recombination rate and gene-regulatory domains defined by a gene and its linked control elements. We define these links using methylation quantitative trait loci (meQTLs), expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs), chromatin conformation, and correlated activity across cell types. Each link type shows a \u201crecombination valley\u201d of significantly-reduced recombination rate compared to control regions, indicating preferential co-inheritance of genes and linked regulatory elements as a single unit. This recombination valley is most pronounced for gene-regulatory domains of early embryonic developmental genes, housekeeping genes, and constitutive regulatory elements, which are known to show increased evolutionary constraint across species. Recombination valleys show increased DNA methylation, reduced double-stranded break initiation, and increased repair efficiency, specifically in the lineage leading to the germ line, providing a potential molecular mechanism facilitating their maintenance by exclusion of recombination events.', u'One strategy for building ontologies covering domains such as disease or anatomy is to weave together existing knowledge sources (databases, vocabularies and ontologies) into single cohesive whole. A first step in this process is to generate mappings between the elements of these different sources. There are a number of well-known techniques for generating mappings, both manual and automatic. Sometimes mappings are seen as an end in themselves, with the sources remaining in a loosely connected state. However, if we want to take the next step and use the mappings to weave together the different sources into a cohesive reference ontology, then we need to translate the mappings into precise logical relationships. This will allow us to safely merge equivalent concepts, creating a unified ontology. This translation is a non-trivial step, as each mapping can be interpreted as multiple different logical relationships, with each interpretation affecting the likelihood of the others. There is a lack of automated methods to assist with this last step; this resolution is typically performed by expert ontologists.\nHere we describe an ontology construction technique that takes two or more ontologies linked by hypothetical axioms, and estimates the most likely unified logical ontology. Hypothetical axioms can themselves be derived from semantically loose mappings. The method combines deductive reasoning and probabilistic inference and is called Bayesian OWL Ontology Merging (BOOM). We describe a special form k-BOOM that works by factorizing the probabilistic ontology into k submodules. We also briefly describe a supplemental lexical and knowledge-based technique for generating a set of hypothetical axioms from loose mappings.\nWe are currently using this technique to build a merged disease ontology (Monarch Disease Ontology; MonDO) that unifies a broad range of vocabularies into a consistent and coherent whole.', u'Theory predicts that a small effective population size leads to slower accumulation of mutations, increased levels of genetic drift and reduction in the efficiency of natural selection. Therefore endemic species should harbor low levels of genetic diversity and exhibit a reduced ability of adaptation to environmental changes. Arabidopsis pedemontana and Arabidopsis cebennensis, two endemic species from Italy and France respectively, provide an excellent model to study the adaptive potential of species with small distribution ranges. To evaluate the genome-wide levels and patterns of genetic variation, effective population size and demographic history of both species, we genotyped 53 A. pedemontana and 28 A. cebennensis individuals across the entire species ranges with Genotyping-by-Sequencing. SNPs data confirmed a low genetic diversity for A. pedemontana although its effective population size is relatively high. Only a weak population structure was observed over the small distribution range of A. pedemontana, resulting from an isolation-by-distance pattern of gene flow. In contrary, A. cebennensis individuals clustered in three populations according to their geographic distribution. Despite this and a larger distribution, the overall genetic diversity was even lower for A. cebennensis than for A. pedemontana. A demographic analysis demonstrated that both endemics have undergone a strong population size decline in the past, without recovery. The more drastic decline observed in A. cebennensis partially explains the very small effective population size observed in the present population. In light of these results, we discuss the adaptive potential of these endemic species in the context of rapid climate change.', u'The non-methylable cytosine analogs, 5-azacytidine and zebularine, are widely used to inhibit DNA methyltransferase activity and reduce genomic DNA methylation. In this study, whole-genome bisulfite sequencing is used to construct maps of DNA methylation with single base pair resolution in Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings treated with each demethylating agent. We find that both inhibitor treatments result in nearly indistinguishable patterns of genome-wide DNA methylation and that 5-azacytidine, despite being more unstable in aqueous solution, has a slightly greater demethylating effect at higher concentrations across the genome. Transcriptome analyses revealed a substantial number of up-regulated genes, with an overrepresentation of transposable element genes, particularly CACTA-like elements. This demonstrates that chemical demethylating agents have a disproportionately large effect on loci that are otherwise silenced by DNA methylation.', u"One of the key factors in -1 programmed ribosomal frameshifting (PRF) is a pseudoknot (PK) RNA. A number of single molecule experiments have been performed on PKs to decipher the mechanism of PRF. Motivated by the experiments, we performed simulations to describe the response of a PK over a range of mechanical forces (fs) and monovalent salt concentrations (Cs). The coarse-grained simulations quantitatively reproduces the multistep thermal melting. The free energy changes obtained in simulations are in excellent agreement with experiments, thus validating our model. The predicted phase diagram shows that a sequence of structural transitions, populating distinct intermediates, occur as f and C are changed. The stem-loop tertiary interactions rupture first followed by unfolding of the 3'-end hairpin (U-I). Finally, the 5'-end hairpin unravels producing a stretched state (I-F). A theoretical analysis of the phase boundaries shows that the critical force for rupture scales as (log C)\u03b1 with \u03b1 = 1 (0.5) for U-I (I-F) transition. This relation is used to obtain the ion-preferential coefficients, which shows that ion-RNA interactions can be quantitatively measured in single molecule experiments. Our simulations predict a plausible link between the stability of the 5' hairpin and efficiency of PRF.", u'CO2, temperature, water availability and light intensity were potential selective pressures to propel the initial evolution and global expansion of C4 photosynthesis in grasses. To tease apart the primary selective pressures along the evolutionary trajectory, we coupled photosynthesis and hydraulics models and optimized photosynthesis over stomatal resistance and leaf/fine-root allocation. We also examined the importance of nitrogen reallocation from the dark to the light reactions. Our results show that the higher stomatal resistance and leaf/root allocation ratio conferred by the C4 photosynthesis led to C4 advantage without any change in hydraulic conductance. For the initial evolution of C4 25-32 MYA, water limitation was the primary driver, and nitrogen reallocation was necessary. Low CO2, together with light intensity, were the primary drivers during the global radiation of C4 5-10 MYA, during this period nitrogen reallocation would not have been strongly selected.', u'The study of fitness landscapes, which aims at mapping genotypes to fitness, is receiving ever-increasing attention. Novel experimental approaches combined with NGS methods enable accurate and extensive studies of the fitness effects of mutations - allowing us to test theoretical predictions and improve our understanding of the shape of the true underlying fitness landscape, and its implications for the predictability and repeatability of evolution.\nHere, we present a uniquely large multi-allelic fitness landscape comprised of 640 engineered mutants that represent all possible combinations of 13 amino-acid changing mutations at six sites in the heat-shock protein Hsp90 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae under elevated salinity. Despite a prevalent pattern of negative epistasis in the landscape, we find that the global fitness peak is reached via four positively epistatic mutations. Combining traditional and extending recently proposed theoretical and statistical approaches, we quantify features of the global multi-allelic fitness landscape. Using subsets of this data, we demonstrate that extrapolation beyond a known part of the landscape is difficult owing to both local ruggedness and amino-acid specific epistatic hotspots, and that inference is additionally confounded by the non-random choice of mutations for experimental fitness landscapes.', u'Multiple virus particles can infect a target host cell. Such multiple infections (MIs) have significant and varied ecological and evolutionary consequences for both virus and host populations. Yet, the in situ rates and drivers of MIs in virus-microbe systems remain largely unknown. Here, we develop an individual-based model (IBM) of virus-microbe dynamics to probe how spatial interactions drive the frequency and nature of MIs. In our IBMs, we identify increasingly spatially correlated clusters of viruses given sufficient decreases viral movement. We also identify increasingly spatially correlated clusters of viruses and clusters of hosts given sufficient increases in viral infectivity. The emergence of clusters is associated with an increase in multiply infected hosts as compared to expectations from an analogous mean-field model. We also observe long-tails in the distribution of the multiplicity of infection (MOI) in contrast to mean-field expectations that such events are exponentially rare. We show that increases in both the frequency and severity of MIs occur when viruses invade a cluster of uninfected microbes. We contend that population-scale enhancement of MI arises from an aggregate of invasion dynamics over a distribution of microbe cluster sizes. Our work highlights the need to consider spatially explicit interactions as a potentially key driver underlying the ecology and evolution of virus-microbe communities.', u'In HIV patients, the set-point viral load (SPVL) is the most widely used predictor of disease severity. Yet SPVL varies over several orders of magnitude between patients. The heritability of SPVL quantifies how much of the variation in SPVL is due to transmissible viral genetics. There is currently no clear consensus on the value of SPVL heritability, as multiple studies have reported apparently discrepant estimates. Here we illustrate that the discrepancies in estimates are most likely due to differences in the estimation methods, rather than the study populations. Importantly, phylogenetic estimates run the risk of being strongly confounded by unrealistic model assumptions. Care must be taken when interpreting and comparing the different estimates to each other.', u'The pleiotropic cytokine interleukin-6 (IL-6) has been proposed to contribute to circadian regulation of sleepiness by increasing in the blood at night to signal for sleepiness. Earlier studies have reported diurnal variations of IL-6, but phase estimates are conflicting. We have therefore performed a meta-analysis on the diurnal variation of circulating IL-6. Studies were included if they reported circulating levels of IL-6\nrecorded at least twice within 24 hours in the same individual. A systematic search resulted in the inclusion of 43 studies with 56 datasets, for a total of 1100 participants. Individual participant data were available from 4 datasets with a total of 56 participants. Mixed-effects meta-regression modelling confirmed that IL-6 varied across the day, the most conspicuous effect being a trough in the morning. These results stand in contrast to earlier findings of a peak in the evening or night, and suggest that diurnal\nvariation should be taken into account in order to avoid confounding in studies of IL-6 in plasma or serum.', u'In most vertebrate neurons, spikes initiate in the axonal initial segment (AIS). When recorded in the soma, they have a surprisingly sharp onset, as if sodium (Na) channels opened abruptly. The main view stipulates that spikes initiate in a conventional manner at the distal end of the AIS, then progressively sharpen as they backpropagate to the soma. We examined the biophysical models used to substantiate this view, and we found that orthodromic spikes do no initiate through a local axonal current loop that propagates along the axon, but through a global current loop encompassing the AIS and soma, which forms an electrical dipole. Therefore, the phenomenon is not adequately modeled as the backpropagation of an electrical wave along the axon, since the wavelength would be as large as the entire system. Instead, in these models, we found that spike initiation rather follows the critical resistive coupling model proposed recently, where the Na current entering the AIS is matched by the axial resistive current flowing to the soma. Besides demonstrating it by examining the balance of currents at spike initiation, we show that the observed increase in spike sharpness along the axon is artifactual and disappears when an appropriate measure of rapidness is used; instead, somatic onset rapidness can be predicted from spike shape at initiation site. Finally, we reproduce the phenomenon in a two-compartment model, showing that it does not rely on propagation. In these models, the sharp onset of somatic spikes is therefore not an artifact of observing spikes at the incorrect location, but rather the signature that spikes are initiated through a global soma-AIS current loop forming an electrical dipole.', u'Using single-cell RNA-seq (scRNA-seq), the full transcriptome of individual cells can be acquired, enabling a quantitative cell-type characterisation based on expression profiles. Due to the large variability in gene expression, assigning cells into groups based on the transcriptome remains challenging. We present Single-Cell Consensus Clustering (SC3), a tool for unsupervised clustering of scRNA-seq data. SC3 achieves high accuracy and robustness by consistently integrating different clustering solutions through a consensus approach. Tests on nine published datasets show that SC3 outperforms 4 existing methods, while remaining  scalable for large datasets, as shown by the analysis of a dataset containing 44,808 cells. Moreover, an interactive graphical implementation makes SC3 accessible to a wide audience of users, and SC3 also aids biological interpretation by identifying marker genes, differentially expressed genes and outlier cells. We illustrate the capabilities of SC3 by characterising newly obtained  transcriptomes from subclones of neoplastic cells collected from patients.', u'Toxin-antitoxins systems (TAS) are prokaryotic operons containing two small overlapping genes which encode two components referred to as Toxin and Antitoxin. Involvement of TAS in bacterial programmed cell death (PCD) is highly controversial. MazEF, a typical type II TAS, is particularly implicated in mediating PCD in Escherichia coli. Hence, we compared the metabolic fitness and stress tolerance of E. coli strains (MC4100 and its mazEF- derivative) which were extensively used by proponents of mazEF- mediated PCD. We found that both the strains are deficient in relA gene and that the \u0394mazEF strain has lower fitness and stress tolerance compared to wild-type MC4100. Furthermore, these strains are likely not isogenic. We could not reproduce mazEF mediated PCD which emphasizes the need for skeptic approach to the PCD hypothesis.', u"Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) with metabolite ratios as quantitative traits have successfully deepened our understanding of the complex relationship between genetic variants and metabolic phenotypes. Usually all ratio combinations are selected for association tests. However, with more metabolites being detectable, the quadratic increase of the ratio number becomes challenging from a statistical, computational and interpretational point-of-view. Therefore methods which select biologically meaningful ratios are required.\nWe here present a network-based approach by selecting only closely connected metabolites in a given metabolic network. The feasibility of this approach was tested on in silico data derived from simulated reaction networks. Especially for small effect sizes, network-based metabolite ratios (NBRs) improved the metabolite-based prediction accuracy of genetically-influenced reactions compared to the 'all ratios' approach. Evaluating the NBR approach on published GWAS association results, we compared reported 'all ratio'-SNP hits with results obtained by selecting only NBRs as candidates for association tests. Input networks for NBR selection were derived from public pathway databases or reconstructed from metabolomics data. NBR-candidates covered more than 80% of all significant ratio-SNP associations and we could replicate 7 out of 10 new associations predicted by the NBR approach.\nIn this study we evaluated a network-based approach to select biologically meaningful metabolite ratios as quantitative traits in GWAS. Taking metabolic network information into account facilitated the analysis and the biochemical interpretation of metabolite-gene association results. For upcoming studies, for instance with case-control design, large-scale metabolomics data and small sample numbers, the analysis of all possible metabolite ratios is not feasible due to the correction for multiple testing. Here our NBR approach increases the statistical power and lowers computational demands, allowing for a better understanding of the complex interplay between individual phenotypes, genetics and metabolic profiles.", u'We consider the problem of estimating variances on a large number of "similar" units, when there are relatively few observations on each unit.  This problem is important in genomics, for example, where it is often desired to estimate variances for thousands of genes (or some other genomic unit) from just a few measurements on each. A common approach to this problem is to use an Empirical Bayes (EB) method that assumes the variances among genes follow an inverse-gamma distribution. Here we describe a more flexible EB method, whose main assumption is that the distribution of the variances (or, as an alternative, the precisions) is unimodal. We show that this more flexible assumption provides competitive performance with existing methods when the variances truly come from an inverse-gamma distribution, and can outperform them when the distribution of the variances is more complex. In analyses of several human gene expression datasets from the Genotype Tissues Expression (GTEx) consortium, we find that our more flexible model often fits the data appreciably better than the single inverse gamma distribution. At the same time we find that, for variance estimation, the differences between methods is often small, suggesting that the simpler methods will often suffice in practice. Our methods are implemented in an R package vashr available from http://github.com/mengyin/vashr.', u'The effects of structural variants on phenotypic diversity and evolution are poorly understood. We recently described genetic and phenotypic variation among fission yeast strains and showed that genome-wide association studies are informative in this model. Here we extend this work by systematically identifying structural variations and investigating their consequences. We establish a curated catalog of copy number variants (CNVs) and rearrangements, including inversions and translocations. We show that CNVs substantially contribute to quantitative traits such as cell shape, cell growth under diverse conditions, sugar utilization in winemaking and antibiotic resistance, whereas rearrangements are strongly associated with reproductive isolation but contribute less to quantitative traits. We find that CNVs frequently vary within clonal populations and are weakly tagged by SNPs, consistent with rapid turnover, and produce measurable effects on gene expression both within and outside the repeated regions. Collectively, these findings have broad implications for evolution and for our understanding of quantitative traits and complex human diseases.', u'Background:\nSince its emergence in 2007 in Micronesia and Polynesia, the arthropod-borne flavivirus Zika virus (ZIKV) has spread in the Americas and the Caribbean, following first detection in Brazil in May 2015. The risk of ZIKV emergence in Europe increases as imported cases are repeatedly reported. Together with chikungunya virus (CHIKV) and dengue virus (DENV), ZIKV is transmitted by Aedes mosquitoes. Any countries where these mosquitoes are present could be potential sites for future ZIKV outbreak.\nMethodology/Principal Findings:\nMosquito females were challenged with an Asian genotype of ZIKV. Fully engorged mosquitoes were then maintained in insectary conditions . 16-24 mosquitoes from each population were examined at 3, 6, 9 and 14 days post-infection to estimate the infection, disseminated infection and transmission rates. Based on these experimental infections, we demonstrated that Ae. albopictus from France were not very susceptible to ZIKV.\nConclusions/Significance:\nIn combination with the restricted distribution and lower population densities of European Ae. albopictus, our results corroborate the low risk for ZIKV to expand into most parts of Europe with the possible exception of the warmest regions bordering the Mediterranean coastline.', u'The recent breakthroughs in assembling long error-prone reads (such as reads generated by Single Molecule Real Time technology) were based on the overlap-layout-consensus approach and did not utilize the strengths of the alternative de Bruijn graph approach to genome assembly. Moreover, these studies often assume that applications of the de Bruijn graph approach are limited to short and accurate reads and that the overlap-layout-consensus approach is the only practical paradigm for assembling long error-prone reads. Below we show how to generalize de Bruijn graphs to assemble long error-prone reads and describe the ABruijn assembler, which results in more accurate genome reconstructions than the existing state-of-the-art algorithms.', u"Large-scale GWAS results are typically obtained by meta-analyzing GWAS results from multiple studies spanning different regions and/or time periods. This approach averages the estimated effects of individual genetic variants across studies. In case genetic effects are heterogeneous across studies, the statistical power of a GWAS and the predictive accuracy of polygenic scores are attenuated, contributing to the so-called 'missing' heritability. However, a theoretical multi-study framework, relating statistical power and predictive accuracy to cross-study heterogeneity, is not available. We address this gap by developing an online Meta-GWAS Accuracy and Power calculator that accounts for the cross-study genetic correlation. This calculator enables to explore to what extent an imperfect cross-study genetic correlation (i.e., less than one) contributes to the missing heritability. By means of simulation studies, we show that under a wide range of genetic architectures, the statistical power and predictive accuracy inferred by this calculator are accurate. We use the calculator to assess recent GWAS efforts and show that the effect of cross-study genetic correlation on statistical power and predictive accuracy is substantial. Hence, cross-study genetic correlation explains a considerable part of the missing heritability. Therefore, a priori calculations of statistical power and predictive accuracy, accounting for heterogeneity in genetic effects across studies, are an important tool for adequately inferring whether an intended meta-analysis of GWAS results is likely to yield meaningful outcomes.", u'A new method for automated spike sorting for recordings with high density, large scale multielectrode arrays is presented. It is based on an efficient, low-dimensional representation of detected events by their estimated spatial current source locations and dominant spike shape features. Millions of events can be sorted in just minutes, and the full analysis chain scales roughly linearly with recording time. We demonstrate this method using recordings from the mouse retina with a 4,096 channel array, and present validation based on anatomical imaging and model-based quality control. Our analysis shows that it is feasible to reliably isolate the activity of hundreds to thousands of retinal ganglion cells in single recordings.', u'The Zika virus is the primary suspect in the large increase in microcephaly cases in 2015-6 in Brazil, however its role is unconfirmed despite individual cases of viral infections found in neural tissue. Here we consider the alternative that the insecticide pyriproxyfen, used in Brazilian drinking water for mosquito control, may actually be the cause. Pyriproxifen is an analog of juvenile hormone, which corresponds in mammals to regulatory molecules including retinoic acid, a vitamin A metabolite, with which it has cross-reactivity and whose application during development causes microcephaly. Methoprene, another juvenile hormone analog approved as an insecticide has metabolites that bind to the retinoid X receptor, and causes developmental disorders in mammals. Isotretinoin is another example of a retinoid causing microcephaly in human babies via activation of the retinoid X receptor. Moreover, tests of pyriproxyfen by the manufacturer, Sumitomo, widely quoted as giving no evidence for developmental toxicity, actually found some evidence for such an effect, including low brain mass and arhinencephaly--incomplete formation of the anterior cerebral hemispheres--in rat pups. Finally, the pyriproxyfen use in Brazil is unprecedented--it has never before been applied to a water supply on such a scale. Claims that it is not being used in Recife, the epicenter of microcephaly cases, do not distinguish the metropolitan area of Recife, where it is widely used, and the municipality, where it is not. Given this combination of information we strongly recommend that the use of pyriproxyfen in Brazil be suspended pending further investigation.', u'Bidirectional transcription initiating at enhancers has been proposed to represent the signature of enhancer activity. Here we show that bidirectional transcription is a pervasive feature of all forms of accessible chromatin, including enhancers, promoters, CTCF-bound sites and other DNase hypersensitive regions. Transcription is less predictive for enhancer activity than epigenetic modifications such as H3K4me1 or the accessibility of DNA when measured in both enhancer assays and at endogenous loci. Bidirectional transcription initiation from accessible chromatin is therefore not sufficient for, nor specific to, enhancer activity. The stability of enhancer initiated transcripts does not influence measures of enhancer activity and we cannot detect any evidence of purifying selection on the resulting enhancer RNAs within the human population.  Our results suggest that transcription initiating at enhancers is frequently a by-product of promiscuous RNA polymerase activity at accessible chromatin, and may not generally play a functional role in enhancer activity.', u'In vivo, the human genome folds into a characteristic ensemble of three-dimensional structures. The mechanism driving the folding process remains unknown. We report a theoretical model for chromatin (Minimal Chromatin Model) that explains the folding of interphase chromosomes and generates chromosome conformations consistent with experimental data. The energy landscape of the model was derived by using the maximum entropy principle and relies on two experimentally derived inputs: a classification of loci into chromatin types and a catalog of the positions of chromatin loops. First, we trained our energy function using the Hi-C contact map of chromosome 10 from human GM12878 lymphoblastoid cells. Then we used the model to perform molecular dynamics simulations producing an ensemble of 3D structures for all GM12878 autosomes. Finally, we used these 3D structures to generate contact maps. We found that simulated contact maps closely agree with experimental results for all GM12878 autosomes.\nThe ensemble of structures resulting from these simulations exhibited unknotted chromosomes, phase separation of chromatin types, and a tendency for open chromatin to lie at the periphery of chromosome territories.', u'Various resting-state fMRI (R-fMRI) measures have been developed to characterize intrinsic brain activity, while questions remain regarding the common and unique aspects these indices capture. The present work provided a comprehensive examination of inter-individual variation and intra-individual temporal variation for commonly used measures. Regardless of whether examining intra-individual or inter-individual variation, we found that these definitionally distinct R-fMRI indices tend to exhibit a relatively high degree of covariation. When taken as a measure of intrinsic brain function, inter-individual differences in concordance for R-fMRI indices appeared to be stable, and negatively related to age. To understand the functional significance of concordance, we noted that higher concordance was generally associated with higher strengths of R-fMRI indices, either at inter-individual (i.e., high vs. low concordance participants) or intra-individual (i.e., high vs. low concordance states identified via temporal dynamic analyses) levels. Finally, temporal dynamics analyses revealed that high concordance states are characterized by increased within- and between-network functional connectivity, suggesting more general variations in network integration and segregation. The current study draws attention to questions regarding selecting an R-fMRI index for usage in a given study, as well as comparing findings across studies that examine inter-individual or group differences using different indices.', u'In the macaque monkey brain, posterior inferior temporal cortex (PIT) cells are responsible for visual object recognition. They receive concurrent inputs from visual areas V4, V3 and V2. We asked how these different anatomical pathways contribute to PIT response properties by deactivating them while monitoring PIT activity. Using cortical cooling of areas V2/V3 or V4 and a hierarchical model of visual recognition, we conclude that these distinct pathways do not transmit different classes of visual features, but serve instead to maintain a balance of local- and global-feature selectivity in IT.', u'A survey was carried out of the dominant chemotrophic groups of bacteria inhabiting surface salt marsh sediments in the Virginia Coastal Reserve (VCR) on the Atlantic coast of Virginia. Total direct cell counts were  carried out on all samples. Aerobic heterotrophs, sulfur oxidizers, sulfate reducing bacteria (SRB), sulfur disproportionaters, Fe-reducing (FeRB) and fermentative bacteria were all quantified by most probable number (MPN) at four different sites that ranged in spatial scale from a few meters to 15 km apart. The sites were sampled every 3 or 4 months over a two year period. Total cell counts were quite consistent temporally at each of the sites, and ranged from a high of 1.4 x 1010 cells . gdw-1 to a low of 8 x 108 cells . gdw-1. Recoveries of all culturable bacteria were also site dependent and ranged from a minimum of  0.4% to a maximum of 40% of the total cell count.  Aerobic bacteria were the dominant recovered population at all of the sites, followed by sulfur-oxidizing bacteria. Together these two groups accounted for >75% of the total recovered bacteria at each of the sites. The populations of anaerobic groups fluctuated significantly; sulfur disproportionating and SRB were most  abundant followed by FeRB and fermenters. On average, all the anaerobes were in the same order of magnitude of abundance (107 cells . gdw-1). Overall, these results suggest that aerobic bacteria consistently predominated in the top 10 cm of the marsh sediments, and that autotrophy related to sulfur oxidation and disproportionation may be important, but under studied processes in salt marsh ecosystems.', u'Cells can sense and respond to mechanical signals over relatively long distances across fibrous extracellular matrices. Recently proposed models suggest that long-range force transmission can be attributed to the nonlinear elasticity or fibrous nature of collagen matrices, yet the mechanism whereby fibers align remains unknown. Moreover, cell shape and anisotropy of cellular contraction are not considered in existing models, although recent experiments have shown that they play crucial roles. Here, we explore all of the key factors that influence long-range force transmission in cell-populated collagen matrices: alignment of collagen fibers, responses to applied force, strain stiffening properties of the aligned fibers, aspect ratios of the cells, and the polarization of cellular contraction. A constitutive law accounting for mechanically-driven collagen fiber reorientation is proposed. We systematically investigate the range of collagen fiber alignment using both finite element simulations and analytical calculations. Our results show that tension-driven collagen fiber alignment plays a crucial role in force transmission. Small critical stretch for fiber alignment, large fiber stiffness and fiber strain-hardening behavior enable long-range interaction. Furthermore, the range of collagen fiber alignment for elliptical cells with polarized contraction is much larger than that for spherical cells with diagonal contraction.  A phase diagram showing the range of force transmission as a function of cell shape and polarization and matrix properties is presented. Our results are in good agreement with recent experiments, and highlight the factors that influence long-range force transmission, in particular tension-driven alignment of fibers. Our work has important relevance to biological processes including development, cancer metastasis and wound healing, suggesting conditions whereby cells communicate over long distances.', u'RNA interference pathways mediate multiple biological processes through Argonaute-family proteins, which bind small RNAs as guides to silence complementary target nucleic acids. In insects and crustaceans, Argonaute-2 silences viral nucleic acids, and therefore acts as a primary effector of innate antiviral immunity. Although the function of the major Argonaute-2 domains, which are conserved across most Argonaute-family proteins, are known, many invertebrate Argonaute-2 homologs contain a glutamine-rich repeat (GRR) region of unknown function at the N-terminus. Here we combine long-read amplicon sequencing of Drosophila Genetic Reference Panel (DGRP) lines with publicly available sequence data from many insect species to show that this region evolves extremely rapidly and is hypervariable within species. We identify distinct GRR haplotype groups in D. melanogaster, and suggest that one of these haplotype groups has recently risen to high frequency in North American populations. Finally, we use published data from genome-wide association studies of viral resistance in D. melanogaster to test whether GRR haplotypes are associated with survival after virus challenge. We find a marginally significant association with survival after challenge with Drosophila C Virus in the DGRP, but we were unable to replicate this finding using lines from the Drosophila Synthetic Population Resource panel.', u"In 2013 we published an analysis demonstrating that drug response data and gene-drug associations reported in two independent large-scale pharmacogenomic screens, Genomics of Drug Sensitivity in Cancer (GDSC) and Cancer Cell Line Encyclopedia (CCLE), were inconsistent. The GDSC and CCLE investigators recently reported that their respective studies exhibit reasonable agreement and yield similar molecular predictors of drug response, seemingly contradicting our previous findings. Reanalyzing the authors' published methods and results, we found that their analysis failed to account for variability in the genomic data and more importantly compared different drug sensitivity measures from each study, which substantially deviate from our more stringent consistency assessment. Our comparison of the most updated genomic and pharmacological data from the GDSC and CCLE confirms our published findings that the measures of drug response reported by these two groups are not consistent. We believe that a principled approach to assess the reproducibility of drug sensitivity predictors is necessary before envisioning their translation into clinical settings.", u'Dravet syndrome is the prototype of SCN1A-mutation associated epilepsies. It is characterised by prolonged seizures, typically provoked by fever. We describe the evaluation of an SCN1A mutation in a child with early-onset temperature-sensitive seizures.\nThe patient carries a heterozygous miss-sense variant (c3818C>T; pAla1273Val) in the NaV1.1 brain sodium channel. We characterised the functional effects of the variant using patch clamp recordings on Chinese Hamster Ovary Cells at different temperatures (32, 37, and 40 degrees Celsius).\nThe variant channels produced a temperature-dependent destabilization of channel activation and fast inactivation. Implementing these empirical abnormalities in a computational model produces a higher threshold for depolarization block in the variant, particularly at 40 degrees Celsius, suggesting a failure to autoregulate at high-input states.\nThese results reveal direct effects of abnormalities in biophysical NaV1.1 channel properties on neuronal dynamics. They illustrate the value of combining cellular measurements with computational models to integrate different scales (gene/channel to patient) of observations.', u"Biodiversity conservation is now about prioritisation, especially in a world with limited resources and so many habitats and species in need of protection. However, we cannot prioritise effectively if historical and current information on a particular habitat or species remains scattered. Several good platforms have been created to help users to find, use and create biodiversity information. However, good platforms for sharing habitat information for threatened ecosystems are still lacking. Limestone hills are an example of threatened ecosystems that harbour unique biodiversity, but are facing intensifying anthropogenic disturbances. As limestone is a vital resource for the construction industry, it is not possible to completely halt forest degradation and quarrying in developing countries such as Malaysia, where 445 limestone hills have been recorded in the peninsula to date. As such, there is an urgent need to identify which hills must be prioritised for conservation. To make decisions based on sound science, collating spatial and biological information on limestone hills into a publicly accessible database is critical. Here, we compile Malaysia's first limestone hill GIS map for 445 limestone hills in the peninsula based on information from geological reports and scientific literature. To assist in conservation prioritisation efforts, we quantify characteristics of limestone hills in terms of size, degree of isolation, and spatial distribution patterns and also assessed the degree of habitat disturbance of each limestone hill in terms of buffer area forest degradation and quarrying activity. All this information is stored in a KMZ file and can be accessed through the Google Earth interface. This product should not be viewed as a final output containing basic limestone hill information. Rather, this database is a foundational platform for users to collect, store, update and manipulate spatial and biological data from limestone hills to better inform decisions regarding their management.", u'We present a reversible Polymorphism-Aware Phylogenetic Model (revPoMo) for species tree estimation from genome-wide data. revPoMo enables the reconstruction of large scale species trees for many within-species samples.  It expands the alphabet of DNA substitution models to include polymorphic states, thereby, naturally accounting for incomplete lineage sorting.  We implemented revPoMo in the maximum likelihood software IQ-TREE.  A simulation study and an application to great apes data show that the runtimes of our approach and standard substitution models are comparable but that revPoMo has much better accuracy in estimating trees, divergence times and mutation rates.  The advantage of revPoMo is that an increase of sample size per species improves estimations but does not increase runtime.  Therefore, revPoMo is a valuable tool with several applications, from speciation dating to species tree reconstruction.', u'Current phylogenetic sampling reveals that dioecy and an XY sex chromosome pair evolved once or possibly twice in the genus Asparagus. Although there appear to be some lineage-specific polyploidization events, the base chromosome number of 2n=2x=20 is relatively conserved across the Asparagus genus. Regardless, dioecious species tend to have larger genomes than hermaphroditic species. Here we test whether this genome size expansion in dioecious species is related to a polyploidization and subsequent chromosome fusion or retrotransposon proliferation in dioecious species. We first estimate genome sizes or use published values for four hermaphrodites and four dioecious species distributed across the phylogeny and show that dioecious species typically have larger genomes than hermaphroditic species. Utilizing a phylogenomic approach we find no evidence for ancient polyploidization contributing to increased genome sizes of sampled dioecious species. We do find support for an ancient whole genome duplication event predating the diversification of the Asparagus genus. Repetitive DNA content of the four hermaphroditic and four dioecious species was characterized based on randomly sampled whole genome shotgun sequencing and common elements were annotated. Across our broad phylogenetic sampling, Ty-1 Copia retroelements in particular have undergone a marked proliferation in dioecious species. In the absence of a detectable whole genome duplication event, retrotransposon proliferation is the most likely explanation for the precipitous increase in genome size in dioecious Asparagus species.', u'Third-generation long-range DNA sequencing and mapping technologies are creating a renaissance in high-quality genome sequencing. Unlike second-generation sequencing, which produces short reads a few hundred base-pairs long, third-generation single-molecule technologies generate over 10,000 bp reads or map over 100,000 bp molecules. We analyze how increased read lengths can be used to address long-standing problems in de novo genome assembly, structural variation analysis and haplotype phasing.', u'By combining Haar wavelets with Bayesian Hidden Markov Models, we improve detection of genomic copy number variants (CNV) in array CGH experiments compared to the state-of-the-art, including standard Gibbs sampling. At the same time, we achieve drastically reduced running times, as the method concentrates computational effort on chromosomal segments which are difficult to call, by dynamically and adaptively recomputing consecutive blocks of observations likely to share a copy number. This makes routine diagnostic use and re-analysis of legacy data collections feasible; to this end, we also propose an effective automatic prior. An open source software implementation of our method is available at http://bioinformatics.rutgers.edu/Software/HaMMLET/. The web supplement is at http://bioinformatics.rutgers.edu/Supplements/HaMMLET/.', u'Ecological change due to habitat fragmentation and climate change can decrease population viability, especially in herbivores and the plant communities upon which they depend. Behavioral flexibility is one important adaptation to both patchy or edge habitats undergoing rapid environmental change. This is true in many generalist herbivores, whose diet preferences can vary substantially, both geographically and over time. Little is known about what plants allow generalist herbivores to respond to rapid environmental changes, and whether these responses are due to variability in diet preference in a population, or individual dietary flexibility. We investigated how the diet preferences of dusky-footed woodrats (Neotoma fuscipes) might allow them to respond to drought in a spatially heterogeneous environment. We conducted cafeteria trials on woodrats during a year of extreme drought to assess individual preferences for locally available plants compared to more drought-tolerant edge vegetation. Our results show that woodrats sample a number of plants, but tend to prefer scrub oak, a dominant plant species in the available habitat, as well as chamise- a highly drought-tolerant plant predominantly present in the surrounding edge habitat.  No difference in food preferences was detected between sexes, but we found evidence for an effect based on age and proximity to edge habitat. Juveniles who lived closer to the habitat edge were more likely to consume, and consumed greater amounts of plants in cafeteria trials compared to adults and juveniles living further from the edge. In addition to oak and chamise, adults sampled large quantities of other plants such as poison oak and California buckeye, and in general included a wider array of plants in their preferred diets compared to juveniles. We conclude with a discussion of the management implications and outlook for woodrats in the Coast Range of northern California.', u'The mutant allele frequencies in oncogenes peak around 0.40 and rapidly decrease. In this article, we explain why this is the case. Invoking a key result from mathematical analysis in our model, namely, the inverse function theorem, we estimate the selection pressures of the mutations as a function of germline allele frequencies. Under complete dominance of oncogenic mutations, this selection function is expected to be linearly correlated with the distribution of the mutant alleles. We demonstrate that this is the case by investigating the allele frequencies of mutations in oncogenes across various cancer types, validating our model for mean effective selection. Consistent with the population genetics model of fitness, the selection function fits a gamma distribution curve that accurately describes the trend of the mutant allele frequencies. While existing equations for selection explain evolution at low allele frequencies, our equations are general formulas for natural selection under complete dominance operating at all frequencies. We show that selection exhibits linear behavior at all times, favoring dominant alleles with respect to the change in recessive allele frequency. Also, these equations show, selection behaves like power-law against the recessive alleles at low dominant allele frequency.', u'The site frequency spectrum (SFS) has long been used to study demographic history and natural selection.  Here, we extend this summary by examining the SFS conditional on the alleles found at the same site in other species.  We refer to this extension as the "phylogenetically-conditioned SFS" or cSFS.  Using recent large-sample data from the Exome Aggregation Consortium (ExAC), combined with primate genome sequences, we find that human variants that occurred independently in closely related primate lineages are at higher frequencies in humans than variants with parallel substitutions in more distant primates. We show that this effect is largely due to sites with elevated mutation rates causing significant departures from the widely-used infinite sites mutation model. Our analysis also suggests substantial variation in mutation rates even among mutations involving the same nucleotide changes. We additionally find evidence for epistatic effects on the cSFS; namely, that parallel primate substitutions are more informative about constraint in humans when the local sequence context is similar than when there are other nearby substitutions. In summary, we show that variable mutation rates and local epistatic effects are important determinants of the SFS in humans.', u'In the modern era, high-density marker panels and/or whole-genome sequencing, coupled with advanced phenotyping pipelines and sophisticated statistical methods, have dramatically increased our ability to generate lists of candidate genes or regions that are putatively associated with phenotypes or processes of interest. However, the speed at with which we can validate genes, or even make reasonable biological interpretations about the principles underlying them, has not kept pace. A promising approach that runs parallel to explicitly validating individual genes is analyzing a set of genes together and assessing the biological similarities among them. This is often achieved via gene ontology (GO) analysis, a powerful tool that involves evaluating publicly available gene annotations. However, GO has limitations including its automated nature and sometimes-difficult interpretability. Here, we describe using Medical Subject Headings (MeSH terms) as an alternative tool for evaluating sets of genes to make biological interpretations and to generate hypotheses. MeSH terms are assigned to PubMed-indexed manuscripts by the National Library of Medicine, and can be mapped to directly genes to develop gene annotations. Once mapped, these terms can be evaluated for enrichment in sets of genes or similarity between gene sets toprovide biological insights. Here, we implement MeSH analyses in five maize datasets to demonstrate how MeSH can be leveraged by the maize and broader crop-genomics community.', u'When presented with attractant (light) together with an amount of repellent (methyl eugenol) that exceeds attractant, Drosophila melanogaster fruit flies are of course repelled, but nine mutants have now been isolated that were not repelled. Although able to respond to attractant alone and to repellent alone, these mutants fail to make a decision when the two are together during the first two months of the study. They are considered defective in a decision-making mechanism. The defect occurs at 34 degrees C but not at room temperature, so these are conditional mutants. Efforts at genetic mapping have been made. Our aim is to discover how decision making gets accomplished and how this results in a behavioral response. We indicate that there is a mechanistic relationship between decision making and the central complex in Drosophila and between decision making and the prefrontal cortex in humans and other vertebrates.\n\nOver a period of six months these mutants changed into ones that are attracted when presented with attractant together with what was overpowering repellent before. Nearly full attraction was achieved at fifteen to thirty days. With attractant alone these mutants were attracted like the original parent and with repellents alone they were repelled like the original parent. The mutants have been genetically mapped.', u'In outcrossing populations, "Haldane\'s Sieve" states that recessive beneficial alleles are less likely to fix than dominant ones, because they are less expose to selection when rare. In contrast, selfing organisms are not subject to Haldane\'s Sieve and are more likely to fix recessive types than outcrossers, as selfing rapidly creates homozygotes, increasing overall selection acting on mutations. However, longer homozygous tracts in selfers also reduces the ability of recombination to create new genotypes. It is unclear how these two effects influence overall adaptation rates in partially selfing organisms. Here, we calculate the fixation probability of beneficial alleles if there is an existing selective sweep in the population. We consider both the potential loss of the second beneficial mutation if it has a weaker advantage than the first, and the possible replacement of the initial allele if the second mutant is fitter. Overall, loss of weaker adaptive alleles during a first selective sweep has a larger impact on preventing fixation of both mutations in highly selfing organisms. Furthermore, the presence of linked mutations has two opposing effects on Haldane\'s Sieve. First, recessive mutants are disproportionally likely to be lost in outcrossers, so it is likelier that dominant mutations will fix. Second, with elevated rates of adaptive mutation, selective interference annuls the advantage in selfing organisms of not suffering from Haldane\'s Sieve; outcrossing organisms are more able to fix weak beneficial mutations of any dominance value. Overall, weakened recombination effects can greatly limit adaptation in selfing organisms.', u'A recent study investigated sperm mediated inheritance of diet induced metabolic phenotype, reported underlying regulation of MERVL targets and ribosomal protein genes in embryos, and suggested that the altered regulation observed may cause placentation defects which can secondarily result in abnormal metabolism. An analysis of available transcriptomic data however reveals a direct link between the developmentally altered genes and the offspring phenotype.', u'Many approaches have been developed for inferring selection coefficients from time series data while accounting for genetic drift. However, the improvement in inference accuracy that can be attained by modeling drift is unknown. Here, by comparing maximum likelihood estimates of selection coefficients that account for the true population size history with estimates that ignore drift, we address the following questions: how much can modeling the population size history improve estimates of selection coefficients? How much can mis-inferred population sizes hurt inferences of selection coefficients? We conduct our analysis under the discrete Wright-Fisher model by deriving the exact probability of an allele frequency trajectory in a population of time-varying size and we replicate our results under the diffusion model by extending the exact probability of a frequency trajectory derived by Steinr\xfccken et al. (2014) to the case of a piecewise constant population. For both the discrete Wright-Fisher and diffusion models, we find that ignoring drift leads to estimates of selection coefficients that are nearly as accurate as estimates that account for the true population history, even when population sizes are small and drift is high. In populations of time-varying size, estimates of selection coefficients that ignore drift are similar in accuracy to estimates that rely on crude, yet reasonable, estimates of the population history. These results are of interest because inference methods that ignore drift are widely used in evolutionary studies and can be many orders of magnitude faster than methods that account for population sizes.', u'When visual features in the periphery are close together they become difficult to recognise: something is present but it is unclear what. This is called \u201ccrowding\u201d. Here we investigated sensitivity to features in highly familiar shapes (letters) by applying spatial distortions. In Experiment 1, observers detected which of four peripherally-presented (8 deg of retinal eccentricity) target letters was distorted (spatial 4AFC). The letters were presented either isolated or surrounded by four undistorted flanking letters, and distorted with one of two types of distortion at a range of distortion frequencies and amplitudes. The bandpass noise distortion ("BPN") technique causes spatial distortions in cartesian space, whereas radial frequency distortion ("RF") causes shifts in polar coordinates. Detecting distortions in target letters was more difficult in the presence of flanking letters, consistent with the effect of crowding. The BPN distortion type showed evidence of tuning, with sensitivity to distortions peaking at approximately 6.5 c/deg for unflanked letters. The presence of flanking letters causes this peak to rise to approximately 8.5 c/deg. In contrast to the tuning observed for BPN distortions, RF distortion sensitivity increased as the radial frequency of distortion increased. In a series of follow-up experiments we found that sensitivity to distortions is reduced when flanking letters were also distorted, that this held when observers were required to report which target letter was undistorted, and that this held when flanker distortions were always detectable. The perception of geometric distortions in letter stimuli is impaired by visual crowding.', u'Movement planning consists of choosing the endpoint of the movement and selecting the motor program that will bring the effector on the endpoint. It is widely accepted that movement endpoint is updated on a trial-by-trial basis with respect to the observed errors and that the motor program for a given movement follows the rules of optimal feedback control. Here, we show clear limitations of these predictions because of the existence of a switching cost for motor planning. First, this cost prevented participants from tuning their motor program appropriately for each individual trial. This was true even when the participants selected the width of the target that they reached toward or when they had learned the appropriate motor program previously. These data are compatible with the existence of a switching cost such as those found in cognitive studies. Interestingly, this cost of switching shares many features of costs reported in cognitive task switching experiments and, when tested in the same participants, was correlated with it. Second, we found that randomly changing the width of a target over the course of a reaching experiment prevents the motor system from updating the endpoint of movements on the basis of the performance on the previous trial if the width of the target has changed. These results provide new insights into the process of motor planning and how it relates to optimal control theory and to a selection by consequences process rather than to an error-based process for action selection.', u'Binding specificity of Cas9-guide RNA complexes to DNA is important for genome engineering applications, but how mismatches influence target recognition and rejection kinetics is not well understood.  We used single-molecule FRET to probe real-time interactions between Cas9-RNA and DNA targets. The bimolecular association rate is only weakly dependent on sequence, but the dissociation rate greatly increases from < 0.006 s-1 to > 2 s-1 upon introduction of mismatches proximal to the protospacer adjacent motif (PAM), demonstrating that mismatches encountered early during heteroduplex formation induce rapid rejection of off-target DNA. In contrast, PAM-distal mismatches up to 12 base pairs in length, which prevent DNA cleavage, still allow the formation of a stable complex (off-rate < 0.006 s-1), suggesting that extremely slow rejection could sequester Cas9-RNA, increasing the Cas9 expression level necessary for genome editing thereby aggravating off-target effects. We also observed at least two different bound FRET states that may represent distinct steps in target search and proofreading.', u'One of the hallmarks of cancer genome is aneuploidy, resulting in abnormal copy numbers of alleles. Structural variations (SVs) can further modify the aneuploid cancer genomes into a mixture of rearranged genomic segments with extensive range of somatic copy number alterations (CNAs). Indeed, aneuploid cancer genomes have significantly higher rate of CNAs and SVs. However, although methods have been developed to identify SVs and allele-specific copy number of genome (ASCNG) separately, no existing algorithm can simultaneously analyze SVs and ASCNG. Such integrated approach is particularly important to fully understand the complexity of cancer genomes. Here we introduce a new algorithm called Weaver to provide allele-specific quantification of SVs and CNAs in aneuploid cancer genomes. Weaver uses a probabilistic graphical model by utilizing cancer whole genome sequencing data to simultaneously estimate the digital copy number and inter-connectivity of SVs. Our simulation evaluation, comparison with single-molecule Optical Mapping analysis, and real data applications (including MCF-7, HeLa, and TCGA whole genome sequencing samples) demonstrated that Weaver is highly accurate and can greatly refine the analysis of complex cancer genome structure.', u'Summary: Modern high-throughput studies often yield long lists of genes, of which a fraction are of high relevance to the phenotype of interest. To prioritize the candidate genes of complex genetic traits, our R/Bioconductor package GenRank provides methods that are based on convergent evidence obtained from multiple independent evidence layers. The package facilitates an extensible framework that allows a further addition of novel methods for candidate gene prioritization.  \nAvailability and Implementation: The methods are implemented in R and available as a package in Bioconductor repository (http://bioconductor.org/packages/GenRank/).\nContact: chakra.kanduri@gmail.com', u'Background: Discovering patient subtypes and molecular drivers of a subtype are difficult and driving problems underlying most modern disease expression studies collected across patient populations. Expression patterns conserved across multiple expression datasets from independent disease studies are likely to represent important molecular events underlying the disease.\n\nMethods: We present the INSPIRE (INferring Shared modules from multiPle gene expREssion datasets) method to infer highly coherent and robust modules of co-expressed genes and the dependencies among the modules from multiple expression datasets. Focusing on inferring modules and their dependencies conserved across multiple expression datasets is important for several reasons. First, using multiple datasets will increase the power to detect robust and relevant patterns (modules and dependencies among modules). Second, INSPIRE enables the use of multiple datasets that contain different sets of genes due to, e.g., the difference in microarray platforms. Many methods designed for expression data analysis cannot integrate multiple datasets with variable discrepancy to infer a single combined model, whereas INSPIRE can naturally model the dependencies among the modules even when a large proportion of genes are not observed on a certain platform.\n\nResults: We evaluated INSPIRE on synthetically generated datasets with known underlying network structure among modules, and gene expression datasets from multiple ovarian cancer studies. We show that the model learned by INSPIRE can explain unseen data better and can reveal prior knowledge on gene functions more accurately than alternative methods. We demonstrate that applying INSPIRE to nine ovarian cancer datasets leads to the identification of a new marker and potential molecular driver of tumor-associated stroma - HOPX.  We also demonstrate that the HOPX module strongly overlaps with the genes defining the mesenchymal patient subtype identified in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) ovarian cancer data. We provide evidence for a previously unknown molecular basis of tumor resectability efficacy involving tumor-associated mesenchymal stem cells represented by HOPX.\n\nConclusions: INSPIRE extracts a low-dimensional description from multiple gene expression data, which consists of modules and their dependencies. The discovery of a new tumor-associated stroma marker, HOPX, and its module suggests a previously unknown mechanism underlying tumor-associated stroma.', u'Results of a neuroimaging study are usually shared through the publication of a scientific paper describing the experiment and analysis outcome. This practice is unsatisfactory in terms of data reuse as it does not allow for the automatic extraction of acquisition or processing information and it provides only sparse information about the location of the brain activity. Full representation of neuroimaging results in a machine-readable form would provide unambiguous description and hence support more reproducible and robust science. We present NIDM-Results, a  model that provides a lightweight solution to share maps generated by neuroimaging studies along with their metadata.', u'Genome-wide significant associations generally explain only a small proportion of the narrow-sense heritability of complex disease (h2). While considerably more heritability is explained by all genotyped SNPs (hg2), for most traits, much heritability remains missing (hg2 < h2). Rare variants, poorly tagged by genotyped SNPs, are a major potential source of the gap between hg2 and h2. Recent efforts to assess the contribution of both sequenced and imputed rare variants to phenotypes suggest that substantial heritability may lie in these variants. Here we analyze sequenced SNPs, imputed SNPs and haploSNPs (haplotype variants constructed from within a sample, without using a reference panel) and show that studies of heritability from these variants may be strongly confounded by subtle population stratification. For example, when meta-analyzing heritability estimates from 22 randomly ascertained case-control traits from the GERA cohort, we observe a statistically significant increase in heritability explained by imputed SNPs even after correcting for principal components (PCs) from genotyped (or imputed) SNPs. However, this increase is eliminated when correcting for stratification using PCs from a larger number of haploSNPs. We note that subtle stratification may also impact estimates of heritability from array SNPs, although we find that this is generally a less severe problem. Overall, our results suggest that estimating the heritability explained by rare variants for case-control traits requires exquisite control for population stratification, but current methods may not provide this level of control.', u'Adult Drosophila melanogaster fruit flies were placed into one end of a tube near to repellents (benzaldehyde and heat) and away from the other end containing attractants (light and a favored temperature). They escaped from the repellents and went to the attractants. Motile mutants that failed to do that were isolated. They did not respond to any external attractants tested or external repellents tested. In addition, they did not respond well to internal stimuli like hunger, thirst, and sleep. Some possibilities for explaining the deficiency: They may be considered defective in decision making that results from faulty interaction with the sensing mechanism, or, alternatively, the mutants may be defective in executive function. The mutants failed at both 34 degrees C and, in one case studied, at room temperature.', u'Rodents of the genus Peromyscus have become increasingly utilized models for investigations into adaptive biology.  This genus is particularly powerful for research linking genetics with adaptive physiology and behaviors, and recent research has capitalized on the unique opportunities afforded by the ecological diversity of these rodents.  However, well characterized genomic and transcriptomic data is intrinsic to explorations of the genetic architecture responsible for ecological adaptations.  This study characterizes a reproductive transcriptome of male Peromyscus eremicus (Cactus mouse), a desert specialist with extreme physiological adaptations to water limitation.  We describe a reproductive transcriptome comprising three tissues in order to expand upon existing research in this species and to facilitate further studies elucidating the genetic basis of potential desert adaptations in male reproductive physiology.', u'Plants experience hyperosmotic stress when faced with saline soils and possibly drought stress, but it is currently unclear how plants perceive this stress in an environment of dynamic water availabilities. Hyperosmotic stress induces a rapid rise in intracellular Ca2+ concentrations ([Ca2+]i) in plants, and this Ca2+ response may reflect the activities of osmo-sensory components. Here, we find in the reference plant Arabidopsis thaliana that the rapid hyperosmotic-induced Ca2+ response exhibited enhanced response magnitudes after pre-exposure to an intermediate hyperosmotic stress. We term this phenomenon "osmo-sensory potentiation". The initial sensing and potentiation occurred in intact plants as well as in roots. Having established a quantitative understanding of WT responses, we investigated effects of pharmacological inhibitors and candidate channel/transporter mutants. Quintuple MSL channel mutants as well as double MCA channel mutants did not affect the response. However interestingly, double mutations in the plastid KEA transporters, kea1kea2, and a single mutation that does not visibly affect chloroplast structure, kea3, impaired the rapid hyperosmotic-induced Ca2+ responses. These mutations did not significantly affect sensory potentiation of the response. These findings suggest that plastids may play an important role in the early steps mediating the response to hyperosmotic stimuli. Together, these findings demonstrate that the plant osmo-sensory components necessary to generate rapid osmotic-induced Ca2+ responses remains responsive under varying osmolarities, endowing plants with the ability to perceive the dynamic intensities of water limitation imposed by osmotic stress.', u'A central goal of evolutionary biology is to understand the molecular mechanisms underlying phenotypic adaptation. While the contribution of protein-coding and cis-regulatory mutations to adaptive traits have been well documented, additional sources of variation\u2013such as the production of alternative RNA transcripts from a single gene, or isoforms\u2013have been understudied. Here, we focus on the pigmentation gene Agouti, known to express multiple alternative transcripts, to investigate the role of isoform usage in the evolution of cryptic color phenotypes in deer mice (genus Peromyscus). We first characterize the Agouti isoforms expressed in the Peromyscus skin and find two novel isoforms not previously identified in Mus. Next, we show that a locally adapted light-colored population of P. maniculatus living on the Nebraska Sand Hills shows an up-regulation of a single Agouti isoform, termed 1C, compared to their ancestral dark-colored conspecifics. Using in vitro assays, we show that this preference for isoform 1C may be driven by isoform-specific differences in translation. In addition, using an admixed population of wild-caught mice, we find that variation in overall Agouti expression maps to a region near exon 1C, which also has patterns of nucleotide variation consistent with strong positive selection. Finally, we show that the independent evolution of cryptic light pigmentation in a different species, P. polionotus, has been driven by a preference for the same Agouti isoform. Together, these findings present an example of the role of alternative transcript processing in adaptation and demonstrate molecular convergence at the level of isoform regulation.', u'Understanding how host dynamics, including spatiotemporal variations of population size and dispersal, may affect the epidemiology of infectious diseases is an active research area. Population dynamics drive neutral and adaptive micro-evolutionary processes that in turn, influence pathogens persistence, their distribution and evolution. This study focuses on a bank vole (Myodes glareolus) metapopulation surveyed in Finland between 2005 and 2009. Bank vole is the reservoir of Puumala hantavirus (PUUV), the agent of nephropathia epidemica (NE, a mild form of hemorrhagic fever with renal symptom) in humans. M glareolus populations experience multiannual density fluctuations that have previously been related to the level of genetic diversity maintained in bank voles, variations in PUUV prevalence and NE occurence in humans. Here, we examine the potential impacts of vole metapopulation genetics on PUUV epidemiology. Using microsatellite markers, we evaluate the impact of density cycles on genetic drift and host gene flow. We show that genetic drift slightly and transiently affects neutral and adaptive genetic variability within the metapopulation. Gene flow seemed to counterbalance its effects during the multiannual density fluctuations. The low abundance phase may therefore be too short to impact genetic variation in the host, and consequently viral genetic diversity. We did not detect any environmental heterogeneity affecting vole gene flow, which might explain the absence of spatial structure previously detected in PUUV in this area. We found evidence for the role of vole dispersal on PUUV circulation through sex-specific and density dependent movements. We further analyzed how multiannual dynamic cycles affected selection acting on immune related genes involved in susceptibility to PUUV. We detected associations between Mhc-Drb haplotypes and PUUV serology, and density related patterns of departures from neutrality on Tnf promoter, Tlr-4 and Mx2 genes. They could reflect signatures of positive and balancing selection acting on these genes, which might influence PUUV microevolution. Altogether, this study provides an original framework for population genetics research developed in epidemiological contexts.', u"The Li and Stephens model, which approximates the coalescent describing the pattern of variation in a population, underpins a range of key tools and results in genetics. Although highly efficient compared to the coalescent, standard implemen- tations of this model still cannot deal with the very large reference cohorts that are starting to become available, and practical implementations use heuristics to achieve reasonable runtimes. Here I describe a new, exact algorithm (fastLS) that implements the Li and Stephens model and achieves runtimes independent of the size of the reference cohort. Key to achieving this runtime is the use of the Burrows-Wheeler transform, allowing the algorithm to efficiently identify partial haplotype matches across a cohort. I show that the proposed data structure is very similar to, and generalizes, Durbin's positional Burrows-Wheeler transform.", u'Three-dimensional interphase organization of metazoan genomes has been linked to cellular identity. However, the principles governing 3D interphase genome architecture and its faithful transmission through disruptive events of cell-cycle, like mitosis, are not fully understood. By using Brownian dynamics simulations of Drosophila chromosome 3R up to time-scales of minutes, we show that chromatin binding profile of Polycomb-repressive-complex-1 robustly predicts a sub-set of topologically associated domains (TADs), and inclusion of other factors recapitulates the profile of all TADs, as observed experimentally. Our simulations show that chromosome 3R attains interphase organization from mitotic state by a two-step process in which formation of local TADs is followed by long-range interactions. Our model also explains statistical features and tracks the assembly kinetics of polycomb subnuclear clusters. In conclusion, our approach can be used to predict structural and kinetic features of 3D chromosome folding and its associated proteins in biological relevant genomic and time scales.', u"Background: There is a significant demand for colorectal cancer (CRC) screening methods that are noninvasive, inexpensive, and capable of accurately detecting early stage tumors. It has been shown that models based on the gut microbiota can complement the fecal occult blood test and fecal immunochemical test (FIT). However, a barrier to microbiota-based screening is the need to collect and store a patient's stool sample.\n\nMethods: Using stool samples collected from 404 patients we tested whether the residual buffer containing resuspended feces in FIT cartridges could be used in place of intact stool samples.\n\nResults: We found that the bacterial DNA isolated from FIT cartridges largely recapitulated the community structure and membership of patients' stool microbiota and that the abundance of bacteria associated with CRC were conserved. We also found that models for detecting CRC that were generated using bacterial abundances from FIT cartridges were equally predictive as models generated using bacterial abundances from stool.\n\nConclusions: These findings demonstrate the potential for using residual buffer from FIT cartridges in place of stool for microbiota-based screening for CRC. This may reduce the need to collect and process separate stool samples and may facilitate combining FIT and microbiota-based biomarkers into a single test. Additionally, FIT cartridges could constitute a novel data source for studying the role of the microbiome in cancer and other diseases.", u'Meta-analysis is a powerful statistical tool to combine re- sults from a set of studies. When image data is available for each study, a number of approaches have been proposed to perform such meta-analysis including combination of standardised statistics, just effect estimates or both effects estimates and their sampling variance. While the latter is the preferred approach in the statistical community, often only standardised estimates are shared, reducing the possible meta-analytic approaches. Given the growing interest in data sharing in the neuroimaging community there is a need to identify what is the minimal data to be shared in order to allow for future image-based meta-analysis. In this paper, we compare the validity and the accuracy of eight meta-analytic approaches on simulated and real data. In one-sample tests, combination of contrast estimates into a random-effects General Linear Model or non-parametric statistics provide a good approximation of the reference approach. If only standardised statistical estimates are shared, permutations of z-score is the preferred approach.', u'Recent years have seen an increase in alarming signals regarding the lack of replicability in neuroscience, psychology, and  other related fields. To avoid a widespread crisis in neuroimaging research and consequent loss of credibility in the public eye, we need to improve how we do science. This article aims to be a practical guide for researchers at any stage of their careers that will help them make their research more reproducible and transparent while minimizing the additional effort that this might require. The guide covers three major topics in open science (data, code, and publications) and offers practical advice as well as highlighting advantages of adopting more open research practices that go beyond improved transparency and reproducibility.', u'I show that Arabidopsis leaf growth can be described with high\naccuracy by a conformal map, where expansion is locally isotropic (the\nsame in all directions) but the amount of expansion can vary with\nposition.  Data obtained by tracking leaf growth over time can be\nreproduced with almost 90% accuracy by such a map. At 7-8 days, 67%\nof leaf growth is accounted for by uniform expansion of the whole\nleaf, but the best fitting conformal map, having 89% accuracy, is\nachieved by adding nonlinear terms to this linear map.  Growth\naccording to a conformal map has the property of maintaining the\nflatness of a leaf. To understand how such a map is generated, one can\nmathematically subtract the effects of tissue expansion\nand calculate the underlying distribution of growth rate. This turns\nout to be a simple linear gradient, which could be generated by a\ndiffusible signal.', u'Abstract \nBackground\nPoorer self-rated health (SRH) predicts worse health outcomes, even when adjusted for objective measures of disease at time of rating. Twin studies indicate SRH has a heritability of up to 60% and that its genetic architecture may overlap with that of personality and cognition. \nMethods\nWe carried out a genome-wide association study (GWAS) of SRH on 111 749 members of the UK Biobank sample. Univariate genome-wide complex trait analysis (GCTA)-GREML analyses were used to estimate the proportion of variance explained by all common autosomal SNPs for SRH. Linkage Disequilibrium (LD) score regression and polygenic risk scoring, two complementary methods, were used to investigate pleiotropy between SRH in UK Biobank and up to 21 health-related and personality and cognitive traits from published GWAS consortia.\nResults\nThe GWAS identified 13 independent signals associated with SRH, including several in regions previously associated with diseases or disease-related traits. The strongest signal was on chromosome 2 (rs2360675, p = 1.77x10-10) close to KLF7, which has previously been associated with obesity and type 2 diabetes. A second strong peak was identified on chromosome 6 in the major histocompatibility region (rs76380179, p = 6.15x10-10). The proportion of variance in SRH that was explained by all common genetic variants was 13%. Polygenic scores for the following traits and disorders were associated with SRH: cognitive ability, education, neuroticism, BMI, longevity, ADHD, major depressive disorder, schizophrenia, lung function, blood pressure, coronary artery disease, large vessel disease stroke, and type 2 diabetes. \nConclusions\nIndividual differences in how people respond to a single item on SRH are partly explained by their genetic propensity to many common psychiatric and physical disorders and psychological traits.', u'There has been intense debate over the immunological basis of schizophrenia, and the potential utility of adjunct immunotherapies. The major histocompatibility complex is consistently the most powerful region of association in genome-wide association studies (GWASs) of schizophrenia, and has been interpreted as strong genetic evidence supporting the immune hypothesis. However, global pathway analyses provide inconsistent evidence of immune involvement in schizophrenia, and it remains unclear whether genetic data support an immune etiology per se. Here we empirically test the hypothesis that variation in immune genes contributes to schizophrenia. We show that there is no enrichment of immune loci outside of the MHC region in the largest genetic study of schizophrenia conducted to date, in contrast to five diseases of known immune origin. Among 108 regions of the genome previously associated with schizophrenia, we identify six immune candidates (DPP4, HSPD1, EGR1, CLU, ESAM, NFATC3) encoding proteins with alternative, non-immune roles in the brain. While our findings do not refute evidence that has accumulated in support of the immune hypothesis, they suggest that genetically mediated alterations in immune function may not play a major role in schizophrenia susceptibility. Instead, there may be a role for pleiotropic effects of a small number of immune genes that also regulate brain development and plasticity. Whether immune alterations drive schizophrenia progression is an important question to be addressed by future research, especially in light of the growing interest in applying immunotherapies in schizophrenia.', u'Background\n\nLarge-scale cancer genomics initiatives and next-generation sequencing for transcriptome profiling allow for detailed molecular characterization of tumors, and provide opportunities for clinical tools to improve diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment decisions. Laboratory information, data management, and data sharing in large-scale genomics projects is a challenge. Aiming to introduce such technologies in a clinical setting offer additional challenges associated with requirements of short lead-times and specialized tracking of biomaterials, data, and analysis results. \n\nResults\n\nUsing the free open-source BioArray Software Environment (BASE) and extension package Reggie we have implemented a laboratory information management system and an automated RNAseq data analysis pipeline that successfully manage a large regional cancer genomics initiative. The system manages enrolled cancer patients, tumor biopsies, extraction of nucleic acid, and whole transcriptome RNA-sequencing through to data analysis and quality control. The implementation offers integration of laboratory equipment and operating procedures, and information tracking in a module based fashion enabling efficient and flexible use of personnel resources. The system provides two-factor authentication and transaction control and seamless integration of freely available software for RNAseq analysis such as Tophat, Cufflinks, and Picard. As of February 2016 more than 8000 patients and over 6000 tumor biopsies have been successfully processed. Lead-time from biopsy arrival to summarized reports based on RNAseq data is less than 5 days, in line with regional clinical requirements. BASE and Reggie are freely available and released as open-source under the GNU General Public License and GNU Affero General Public License, respectively.\n\nConclusion\n\nUsing free open-source software together with BASE and a customized extension package, Reggie, we have implemented a system capable of managing large collections of quality controlled and curated material for use in research and development and tailored to meet requirements for clinical use. Featuring high degree of automation and interactivity the system allows for resource efficient laboratory procedures and short lead-times with demonstrated use of RNAseq data analyses in a clinical setting.', u'Single-molecule F\xf6rster Resonance Energy Transfer (smFRET) allows\nprobing intermolecular interactions and conformational changes in\nbiomacromolecules, and represents an invaluable tool for studying\ncellular processes at the molecular scale. smFRET experiments can\ndetect the distance between two fluorescent labels (donor and acceptor)\nin the 3-10~nm range. In the commonly employed confocal geometry,\nmolecules are free to diffuse in solution. When a molecule traverses\nthe excitation volume, it emits a burst of photons, which can be detected\nby single-photon avalanche diode (SPAD) detectors. The intensities of\ndonor and acceptor fluorescence can then be related to the distance\nbetween the two fluorophores.\n\nWhile recent years have seen a growing number of contributions \nproposing improvements or new techniques in smFRET data analysis, \nrarely have those publications been accompanied by software implementation. \nIn particular, despite the widespread application of smFRET, no complete \nsoftware package for smFRET burst analysis is freely available to date.\n \nIn this paper, we introduce FRETBursts, an open source software\nfor analysis of freely-diffusing smFRET data.\nFRETBursts allows executing all the fundamental steps of smFRET bursts\nanalysis using state-of-the-art as well as novel techniques,\nwhile providing an open, robust and well-documented implementation.\nTherefore, FRETBursts represents an ideal platform for comparison\nand development of new methods in burst analysis.\n\nWe employ modern software engineering principles in order to\nminimize bugs and facilitate long-term maintainability.\nFurthermore, we place a strong focus on reproducibility by relying on\nJupyter notebooks for FRETBursts execution.\nNotebooks are executable documents capturing all the steps of the\nanalysis (including data files, input parameters, and results) and can\nbe easily shared to replicate complete smFRET analyzes.\nNotebooks allow beginners to execute complex workflows\nand advanced users to customize the analysis for their own needs.\nBy bundling analysis description, code and results in a single document, \nFRETBursts allows to seamless share analysis workflows\nand results, encourages reproducibility and facilitates collaboration\namong researchers in the single-molecule community.', u'Evolutionary innovation must occur in the context of some genomic background, which limits available evolutionary paths. For example, protein evolution by sequence substitution is constrained by epistasis between residues. In prokaryotes, evolutionary innovation frequently happens by macrogenomic events such as horizontal gene transfer (HGT). Previous work has suggested that HGT can be influenced by ancestral genomic content, yet the extent of such gene-level constraints has not yet been systematically characterized. Here, we evaluated the evolutionary impact of such constraints in prokaryotes, using probabilistic ancestral reconstructions from 634 extant prokaryotic genomes and a novel framework for detecting evolutionary constraints on HGT events. We identified 8,228 directional dependencies between genes, and demonstrated that many such dependencies reflect known functional relationships, including, for example, evolutionary dependencies of the photosynthetic enzyme RuBisCO. Modeling all dependencies as a network, we adapted an approach from graph theory to establish chronological precedence in the acquisition of different genomic functions. Specifically, we demonstrated that specific functions tend to be gained sequentially, suggesting that evolution in prokaryotes is governed by functional assembly patterns. Finally, we showed that these dependencies are universal rather than clade-specific and are often sufficient for predicting whether or not a given ancestral genome will acquire specific genes. Combined, our results indicate that evolutionary innovation via HGT is profoundly constrained by epistasis and historical contingency, similar to the evolution of proteins and phenotypic characters, and suggest that the emergence of specific metabolic and pathological phenotypes in prokaryotes can be predictable from current genomes.', u'Reconstructing the evolutionary history of metastases is critical for understanding their basic biological principles and has profound clinical implications. Genome-wide sequencing data has enabled modern phylogenomic methods to accurately dissect subclones and their phylogenies from noisy and impure bulk tumor samples at unprecedented depth. However, existing methods are not designed to infer metastatic seeding patterns. We have developed a tool, called Treeomics, that utilizes Bayesian inference and Integer Linear Programming to reconstruct the phylogeny of metastases. Treeomics allowed us to infer comprehensive seeding patterns for pancreatic, ovarian, and prostate cancers. Moreover, Treeomics correctly disambiguated true seeding patterns from sequencing artifacts; 7% of variants were misclassified by conventional statistical methods. These artifacts can skew phylogenies by creating illusory tumor heterogeneity among distinct samples. Last, we performed in silico benchmarking on simulated tumor phylogenies across a wide range of sample purities (30-90%) and sequencing depths (50-800x) to demonstrate the high accuracy of Treeomics compared to existing methods.', u'Alternative splicing results in the inclusion or exclusion of exons in an RNA, thereby allowing a single gene to code for multiple RNA isoforms. Genes are often composed of many exons, allowing combinatorial choice to significantly expand the coding potential of the genome. How much coding potential is gained by alternative splicing and what is the main contributor: alternative-splicing-depth or exon-count? Here we develop a splice-site-centric quantification method, allowing us to characterize transcriptome-wide alternative splicing with a simple probabilistic model, enabling species-wide comparison. We use information theory to quantify the coding potential gain and show that an increase in alternative splicing probability contributes more to transcriptome expansion than exon-count. Our results suggest that dominant isoforms are co-expressed alongside many minor isoforms. We propose that this solves two problems simultaneously, that is, expression of functional isoforms and expansion of the transcriptome landscape potentially without a direct function, but available for evolution.', u'Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) is a widely employed method for analyzing gene expression profiles. The approach uses annotated sets of genes, identifies those that are coordinately up- or down-regulated in a biological comparison of interest, and thereby elucidates underlying biological processes relevant to the comparison. As the number of gene sets available in various collections for enrichment analysis has grown, the resulting lists of significant differentially regulated gene sets may also become larger, leading to the need for additional downstream analysis of GSEA results. Here we present a method that allows the rapid identification of a small number of co-regulated groups of genes - "leading edge metagenes" (LEMs) - from high scoring sets in GSEA results. LEM are sub-signatures which are common to multiple gene sets and that "explain" their enrichment specific to the experimental dataset of interest. We show that LEMs contain more refined lists of context-dependent and biologically meaningful genes than the parental gene sets. LEM analysis of the human vaccine response using a large database of immune signatures identified core biological processes induced by five different vaccines in datasets from human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC). Further study of these biological processes over time following vaccination showed that at day 3 post-vaccination, vaccines derived from viruses or viral subunits exhibit patterns of biological processes that are distinct from protein conjugate vaccines; however, by day 7 these differences were less pronounced. This suggests that the immune response to diverse vaccines eventually converge to a common transcriptional response. LEM analysis can significantly reduce the dimensionality of enriched gene sets, improve the identification of core biological processes active in a comparison of interest, and simplify the biological interpretation of GSEA results.', u'Several taxonomically distinct mammalian groups \u2013 certain microbats and cetaceans (e.g. dolphins) \u2013 share both morphological adaptations related to echolocation behavior and strong signatures of convergent evolution at the amino acid level across seven genes related to auditory processing. Aye-ayes (Daubentonia madagascariensis) are nocturnal lemurs with a derived auditory processing system. Aye-ayes tap rapidly along the surfaces of dead trees, listening to reverberations to identify the mines of wood-boring insect larvae; this behavior has been hypothesized to functionally mimic echolocation. Here we investigated whether there are signals of genomic convergence between aye-ayes and known mammalian echolocators. We developed a computational pipeline (BEAT: Basic Exon Assembly Tool) that produces consensus sequences for regions of interest from shotgun genomic sequencing data for non-model organisms without requiring de novo genome assembly. We reconstructed complete coding region sequences for the seven convergent echolocating bat-dolphin genes for aye-ayes and another lemur. Sequences were compared in a phylogenetic framework to those of bat and dolphin echolocators and appropriate non-echolocating outgroups. Our analysis reaffirms the existence of amino acid convergence at these loci among echolocating bats and dolphins; we also detected unexpected signals of convergence between echolocating bats and both mice and elephants. However, we observed no significant signal of amino acid convergence between aye-ayes and echolocating bats and dolphins; our results thus suggest that aye-aye tap-foraging auditory adaptations represent distinct evolutionary innovations. These results are also consistent with a developing consensus that convergent behavioral ecology is not necessarily a reliable guide to convergent molecular evolution.', u'Recent studies have highlighted the role of multisensory integration as a key mechanism of self-consciousness. In particular, integration of bodily signals within the peripersonal space (PPS) underlies the experience of the self in a body we own (self-identification) and that is experienced as occupying a specific location in space (self-location), two main components of bodily self-consciousness (BSC). Experiments investigating the effects of multisensory integration on BSC have typically employed supra-threshold sensory stimuli, neglecting the role of unconscious sensory signals in BSC, as tested in other consciousness research. Here, we used psychophysical techniques to test whether multisensory integration of bodily stimuli underlying BSC may also occur for multisensory inputs presented below the threshold of conscious perception. Our results indicate that visual stimuli rendered invisible (through continuous flash suppression) boost processing of tactile stimuli on the body (Exp. 1), and enhance the perception of near-threshold tactile stimuli (Exp. 2), only once they entered peripersonal space. We then employed unconscious multisensory mechanisms to manipulate BSC. Participants were presented with tactile stimulation on their body and with visual stimuli on a virtual body, seen at a distance, which were either visible or rendered invisible. We report that if visuo-tactile stimulation was synchronized, participants self-identified with the virtual body (Exp. 3), and shifted their self-location toward the virtual body (Exp.4), even if visual stimuli were fully invisible. Our results indicate that multisensory inputs, even outside of awareness, are integrated and affect the phenomenological content of self-consciousness, grounding BSC firmly in the field of psychophysical consciousness studies.', u'To assess the performance of the Oxford Nanopore Technologies MinION sequencing platform, cDNAs from the External RNA Controls Consortium (ERCC) RNA Spike-In mix were sequenced. This mix mimics mammalian mRNA species and consists of 92 polyadenylated transcripts with known concentration. cDNA libraries were generated  using a template switching protocol to facilitate the direct comparison between different sequencing platforms. The MinION performance was assessed for its ability to sequence the cDNAs directly with good accuracy in terms of abundance and full length. The abundance of the ERCC cDNA molecules sequenced by MinION agreed with their expected concentration. No length or GC content bias was observed. The majority of cDNAs were sequenced as full length. Additionally, a complex cDNA population derived from a human HEK-293 cell line was sequenced on an Illumina HiSeq 2500, PacBio RS II and ONT MinION platforms. We observed that there was a good agreement in the measured cDNA abundance between PacBio RS II and ONT MinION (r spearman=0.57, fragments with length more than 700bp) and between Illumina HiSeq 2500 and ONT MinION (r spearman=0.61). This indicates that the ONT MinION can sequence quantitatively both long and short full length cDNA molecules.', u'For most complex traits, known genetic associations only explain a small fraction of the narrow sense heritability prompting intense debate on the genetic basis of complex traits. Joint analysis of all common variants together explains much of this missing heritability and reveals that large numbers of weakly associated loci are enriched in regulatory regions, but fails to identify specific regions or biological pathways. Here, we use epigenomic annotations across 127 tissues and cell types to investigate weak regulatory associations, the specific enhancers they reside in, their downstream target genes, their upstream regulators, and the biological pathways they disrupt in eight common diseases. We show weak associations are significantly enriched in disease-relevant regulatory regions across thousands of independent loci. We develop methods to control for LD between weak associations and overlap between annotations. We show that weak non-coding associations are additionally enriched in relevant biological pathways implicating additional downstream target genes and upstream disease-specific master regulators. Our results can help guide the discovery of biologically meaningful, but currently undetectable regulatory loci underlying a number of common diseases.', u'Characterizing inter-individual differences is critical to realize neuroimaging full potential, but can hardly be achieved without accurately assessing the statistical dependencies between inter-individual differences in behavior and inter-individual differences in neural activity. In this manuscript, we consider two hypotheses: 1) BOLD signal scales linearly with behavioral variables across individuals and 2) BOLD signal encodes behavioral variables on a similar scale across individuals. We formally show that these two hypotheses induce opposite brain-behavior correlational results in group-level analyses, illustrating the importance of explicitly testing inter-individual brain-behavior scaling before engaging in the study of functional inter-individual differences. To further evidence the relevance of this framework, we illustrate its practical consequences for model-based fMRI using computational simulations, and demonstrate its empirical robustness in four fMRI studies investigating values coding in the prefrontal cortex. This may constitute an important step forward in our conceptualization, analysis and interpretation of inter-individual differences in cognitive neurosciences.', u'Identification of drug targets and mechanism of action (MoA), particularly for new and uncharacterized drugs, is important for the optimization of drug efficacy. Current approaches towards determining drug MoA largely rely on prior information such as side effects, therapeutic indication and chemo-informatics. However, such information is not transferable or applicable for newly identified small molecules. Despite continuous release of large-scale pharmacogenomic datasets, these valuable data remain underused to classify drugs. Accordingly, a systematic and unbiased approach towards MoA prediction is imperative to efficiently classify new compounds and infer their potential targets of MoA. Here, we propose a method that only relies on basic drug characteristics, including drug structural information, drug perturbation and drug sensitivity profiles, which have not been previously combined towards predicting drug targets and MoA. We harnessed the full potential of pharmacogenomics data using our Similarity Network Fusion approach to implement Drug Network Fusion (DNF), a scalable, integrative drug taxonomy. We demonstrate that DNF is effective towards prediction of drug targets and anatomical therapeutic chemical (ATC) classification). Our method enables robust inference of drug MoAs for new and existing compounds, using integrative computational pharmacogenomics. (Nehme El-Hachem and Deena M.A. Gendoo contributed equally to this work.)', u'Genetically-engineered mouse models (GEMMs) of cancer are increasingly being utilized to assess putative driver mutations identified by large scale sequencing of human cancer genomes. In order to accurately interpret experiments that introduce additional mutations, an understanding of the somatic genetic profile and evolution of GEMM tumors is necessary.  Here, we performed whole exome sequencing of tumors from three GEMMs of lung adenocarcinoma driven by mutant EGFR, mutant Kras or by overexpression of MYC. Tumors from EGFR- and Kras- driven models exhibited respectively 0.02 and 0.07 non-synonymous mutations/megabase, a dramatically lower average mutational frequency than observed in human lung adenocarcinomas. Tumors from models driven by strong cancer drivers (mutant EGFR and Kras) harbored few mutations in known cancer genes, whereas tumors driven by MYC, a weaker initiating oncogene in the murine lung, acquired recurrent clonal oncogenic Kras mutations. In addition, although EGFR- and Kras- driven models both exhibited recurrent whole chromosome DNA copy number alterations, the specific chromosomes altered by gain or loss were different in each model. These data demonstrate that GEMM tumors exhibit relatively simple somatic genotypes compared to human cancers of a similar type, making these autochthonous model systems useful for additive engineering approaches to assess the potential of novel mutations on tumorigenesis, cancer progression, and drug sensitivity.', u'In order to produce dependable results, the output of models must be carefully evaluated and compared to the experimental data. One of the main goals of analyzing a model is the understanding the effect of input factors on the model output. This task is carried out using a methodology known as sensitivity analysis. The analysis of Individual-based Models is hindered by the lack of simple tools allowing a complete and throughout evaluation without much effort. This kind of model tends to have a high level of complexity and the manual execution of a large experimental setup is generally not a feasible choice. Thus, it is required that model evaluation should ideally be simple and robust without demanding a high level of knowledge from modelers. In this work we present the RRepast, an open source GNU R package for executing, calibrating and analyzing Repast Symphony models directly from the R environment.', u'Ancestry and Kinship Toolkit~(AKT) is a statistical genetics tool for analysing large cohorts of whole-genome sequenced samples. It can rapidly detect related samples, characterise sample ancestry, detect IBD segments, calculate correlation between variants, check Mendel consistency and perform data clustering. AKT brings together the functionality of many state-of-the-art methods, with a focus on speed and a unified interface. We believe it will be an invaluable tool for the curation of large WGS data-sets.', u'The identification changes in amino acid for same protein in closely related species are necessary in order to identify its effect at various structural and functional levels. Salmonella typhimurium and E.coli Methionyl tRNA synthetase taken in current study as these bacteria are closely related to each other and have fewer differences in amino acid sequences for MetG. This study helps to identify various structural and functional differences at primary, secondary and tertiary levels, with functional differences by Docking study with Methionine. Study involves analysis of differences based on observation of differences in modeled 3D protein for sequences available at NCBI and its comparison with Known 3D structure. As sequences difference are in functional protein from non-mutant species, the differences are analysed in context of Primary, secondary, tertiary structure differences, Disorder differences, and docking differences.', u'The Drosophila melanogaster P transposable element provides one of the best cases of horizontal transfer of a mobile DNA sequence in eukaryotes. Invasion of natural populations by the P element has led to a syndrome of phenotypes known as \u201cP-M hybrid dysgenesis\u201d that emerges when strains differing in their P element composition mate and produce offspring. Despite extensive research on many aspects of P element biology, questions remain about the stability and genomic basis of variation in P-M dysgenesis phenotypes. Here we report the P-M status for a number of populations sampled recently from Ukraine that appear to be undergoing a shift in their P element composition. Gondal dysgenesis assays reveal that Ukrainian populations of D. melanogaster are currently dominated by the P\u2019 cytotype, a cytotype that was previously thought to be rare in nature, suggesting that a new active form of the P element has recently spread in this region. We also compared gondal dysgenesis phenotypes and genomic P element predictions for isofemale strains obtained from three worldwide populations of D. melanogaster in order to guide further work on the molecular basis of differences in cytotype status across populations. We find that the number of euchromatic P elements per strain can vary significantly across populations but that total P element numbers are not strongly correlated with the degree of gondal dysgenesis. Our work shows that rapid changes in cytotype status can occur in natural populations of D. melanogaster, and informs future efforts to decode the genomic basis of geographic and temporal differences in P element induced phenotypes', u'The thalamus receives input from multiple brain systems and has an essential role in controlling brain state. This is thought to occur primarily because of its connectivity with the forebrain. Here, we provide evidence for an additional mechanism. By calcium imaging of larval zebrafish, we show that two stimuli, light and darkness, trigger distinct activity patterns in the habenula. Responses appear first in a neuropil that is innervated by retino-recipient thalamic nuclei. Thalamic responses to light and darkness resemble habenula responses, and the thalamus appears to be the only source of GABAergic afferents that would underlie the inhibitory component of light-evoked activity. These data establish that the thalamus directly controls the habenula, a regulator of many broadly acting neuromodulators. We thus propose that the thalamus influences brain state via a pathway to the habenula, which can act in parallel with projections to the forebrain.', u'The effect of a cooperatively breeding group\u2032s composition on its reproductive output (GRO) has been difficult to assess across populations and species. Prior research has correlated GRO with age and sex classes, not accounting for uneven sample sizes and pseudoreplication at the group or species level. This study utilizes a multistep modelling approach to assess whether breeding status explains GRO better than age-sex classes among free-ranging saddleback (Saguinus weddelli) and emperor tamarins (S. imperator) in Peru. Dimension reduction analyses were performed on 6 years of morphometric data to assign breeding status to individuals. Three analytical approaches (GLMM, binomial logistic regression and multinomial logistic regression) were used to model the effects of breeding status on GRO in the current dataset and a historical dataset derived from previous studies of wild callitrichids. Though alloparents have long been considered critical to reproductive success in cooperative breeders, these results indicate that group size and the proportion of primary breeders are the most significant factors contributing to GRO. This indicates that reproductive suppression of subordinate females may even be detrimental to GRO and though additional primary breeding males increased GRO, the addition of secondary breeders, male or female, did not.', u'Rapid species radiations can obscure phylogenetic relationships between even distantly related species and lead to incorrect evolutionary inferences. For this reason, we examined evolutionary relationships among the three North American milkweed butterflies, Danaus plexippus, D. gilippus and D. eresimus using >400 orthologous gene sequences assembled from transcriptome data. Contrary to previous phylogenetic assessments, our results indicate that D. plexippus and D. eresimus are the sister taxa among these species. This result explains many previously noted phylogenetic incongruences such as an amino acid substitution in the sodium-potassium pump (Na+,K+-ATPase) of D. eresimus  and D. plexippus, which increases resistance to the toxins found in these butterflies host plants. In accordance with a rapid radiation of Danaus butterflies, we also find evidence that both incomplete lineage sorting and post-speciation genetic exchange have contributed significantly to the evolutionary histories of these species. Furthermore, our findings suggest that D. plexippus is highly derived both morphologically and behaviorally.', u'Cell-free environments are becoming viable alternatives for implementing biological networks in synthetic biology. The reconstituted cell-free expression system (PURE) allows characterization of genetic networks under defined conditions but its applicability to native bacterial promoters and endogenous genetic networks is limited due to the poor transcription rate of Escherichia coli RNA polymerase in this minimal system. We found that addition of transcription elongation factors GreA and GreB to the PURE system increased transcription rates of E. coli RNA polymerase from sigma factor 70 promoters up to 6-fold and enhanced the performance of a genetic network. Furthermore, we reconstituted activation of natural E. coli promoters controlling flagella biosynthesis by the transcriptional activator FlhDC and sigma factor 28. Addition of GreA/GreB to the PURE system allows efficient expression from natural and synthetic E. coli promoters and characterization of their regulation in minimal and defined reaction conditions making the PURE system more broadly applicable to study genetic networks and bottom-up synthetic biology.', u'Despite the negative economic and ecological impact of weeds, relatively little is known about the evolutionary mechanisms that influence their persistence in agricultural fields. Here, we use a resurrection ecology approach and compare the genetic and phenotypic divergence of temporally sampled seed progenies of Ipomoea purpurea, an agricultural weed that is resistant to glyphosate, the most widely used herbicide in current-day agriculture. We found striking reductions in allelic diversity between cohorts sampled nine years apart (2003 vs 2012), suggesting that populations of this species sampled from agricultural fields have experienced genetic bottleneck events that have led to lower neutral genetic diversity. Heterozygosity excess tests indicate that this bottleneck may have occurred prior to 2003. Further, a greenhouse assay of individuals sampled from the field as seed found that populations of this species, on average, exhibited modest increases in herbicide resistance over time. Our results show that populations of this noxious weed, capable of adapting to strong selection imparted by herbicide application, may lose genetic variation as a result of this or other environmental factors. We likely uncovered only modest increases in resistance between sampling cohorts due to a strong and previously identified fitness cost of resistance in this species, along with the potential that non-resistant migrants germinate from the seed bank.', u'Although >20 common frequency age-related macular degeneration (AMD) alleles have been discovered with genome-wide association studies, substantial disease heritability remains unexplained. In this study we sought to identify additional variants, both common and rare, that have an association with advanced AMD.  We genotyped 4,332 cases and 25,268 controls of European ancestry from three different populations using the Illumina Infinium HumanExome BeadChip.  We performed meta-analyses to identify associations with common variants and performed single variant and gene-based burden tests to identify associations with rare variants.  Two protective, low frequency, non-synonymous variants A307V in PELI3 (odds ratio [OR]=0.14, P=4.3x10-10) and N1050Y in CFH (OR=0.76, Pconditional=1.6x10-11) were significantly associated with a decrease in risk of AMD. Additionally, we identified an enrichment of protective alleles in PELI3 using a burden test (OR=0.14).  The new variants have a large effect size, similar to rare mutations we reported previously in a targeted sequencing study, which remain significant in this analysis: CFH R1210C (OR=18.82, P=3.5x10-07), C3 K155Q (OR=3.27, P=1.5x10-10), and C9 P167S (OR=2.04, P=2.8x10-07). We also identified a strong protective signal for a common variant (rs8056814) near CTRB1 associated with a decrease in AMD risk (logistic regression: OR = 0.71, P = 1.8x10-07; Firth corrected OR = 0.64, P = 9.6x10-11).  This study supports the involvement of both common and low frequency protective variants in AMD. It also may expand the role of the high-density lipoprotein pathway and branches of the innate immune pathway, outside that of the complement system, in the etiology of AMD.', u'Short Tandem Repeats (STRs) are mutation-prone loci that span nearly 1% of the human genome. Previous studies have estimated the mutation rates of highly polymorphic STRs using capillary electrophoresis and pedigree-based designs. While this work has provided insights into the mutational dynamics of highly mutable STRs, the mutation rates of most others remain unknown. Here, we harnessed whole-genome sequencing data to estimate the mutation rates of Y-chromosome STRs (Y-STRs) with 2-6 base pair repeat units that are accessible to Illumina sequencing. We genotyped 4,500 Y-STRs using data from the 1000 Genomes Project and the Simons Genome Diversity Project. Next, we developed MUTEA, an algorithm that infers STR mutation rates from population-scale data using a high-resolution SNP-based phylogeny. After extensive intrinsic and extrinsic validations, we harnessed MUTEA to derive mutation rate estimates for 702 polymorphic STRs by tracing each locus over 222,000 meioses, resulting in the largest collection of Y-STR mutation rates to date. Using our estimates, we identified determinants of STR mutation rates and built a model to predict rates for STRs across the genome. These predictions indicate that the load of de novo STR mutations is at least 75 mutations per generation, rivaling the load of all other known variant types. Finally, we identified Y-STRs with potential applications in forensics and genetic genealogy, assessed the ability to differentiate between the Y-chromosomes of father-son pairs, and imputed Y-STR genotypes.', u'PRDM9 is currently the sole speciation gene found in vertebrates causing hybrid sterility probably due to\nincompatible alleles. Its role in defining the double strand break loci during the meiotic prophase I is crucial for\nproper chromosome segregation. Therefore, the rapid turnover of the loci determining zinc finger array seems to\nbe causative for incompatibilities. We here investigated the zinc finger domain-containing exon of PRDM9 in 23\ntarsiers. Tarsiers, the most basal extant haplorhine primates, exhibit two frameshifting indels at the 5-prime end of the\narray. The first mutation event interrupts the reading frame and function while the second compensates both. The\nfixation of this peculiar allele variant in tarsiers led to hypothesize that de- and reactivation of the zinc finger\ndomain drove the speciation in early haplorhine primates. Moreover, the high allelic diversity within Tarsius\npoint to multiple effects of genetic drift reflecting their phylogeographic history since the Miocene.', u'Understanding the mutational heterogeneity within tumours is a keystone for the development of efficient cancer therapies. Here, we present SCITE, a stochastic search algorithm to identify the evolutionary history of a tumour from noisy and incomplete mutation profiles of single cells. SCITE comprises a flexible MCMC sampling scheme that allows the user to compute the maximum-likelihood mutation history, to sample from the posterior probability distribution, and to estimate the error rates of the underlying sequencing experiments.  Evaluation on real cancer data and on simulation studies shows the scalability of SCITE to present-day single-cell sequencing data and improved reconstruction accuracy compared to existing approaches.', u'Hermaphroditic organisms are common both in plants and animals, and have served as key models to study the evolution of sex allocation. Despite extensive past research, the specific developmental mechanisms by which hermaphrodite sex allocation can evolve remain largely unknown. To address this problem, we here use experimental evolution of Caenorhabditis elegans hermaphrodite-male populations to directly quantify changes in germline and somatic development that underlie adaptive shifts in hermaphrodite sex allocation associated with the evolution of improved self-fertility. Specifically, we test whether the evolution of hermaphrodite sex allocation is due to heterochrony, i.e. evolutionary changes in the relative timing of developmental processes.\nWe show that the experimental evolution of improved hermaphrodite self-fertility occurred through complex modification of a suite of developmental and reproductive traits: increased sperm production, accelerated oogenesis and ovulation rates, and increased embryo retention in utero. The experimental evolution of increased sperm production delayed entry into oogenesis - as expected, given the sequentially coupled production of spermatogenesis and oogenesis. Surprisingly, however, delayed oogenesis onset did not delay reproductive maturity, nor did it trade-off with gamete or embryo size. Comparing developmental dynamics of germline and soma indicates that the evolution of increased sperm production did not delay reproductive maturity due to a globally accelerated larval development during the period of spermatogenesis. \nWe conclude that the integration of multiple heterochronic events in gametogenesis and soma can explain the experimental evolution of hermaphrodite sex allocation and self-fertility. Our results thus support the idea that heterochrony can represent a specific mechanism that explains the maintenance of partial selfing in natural populations with mixed reproduction modes and different forms of hermaphroditism. More generally, our results provide a quantitative perspective on how natural selection can operate on developmental characters - and their integration - during the evolution of life history at the population level.', u"A 38 kHz upward-facing echosounder was deployed on the seafloor at a depth of 875 m in Monterey Bay, CA, USA (36\xb0 42.748' N, 122\xb0 11.214' W)  from 27 February 2009 to 18 August 2010.  This 18-month record of acoustic backscatter was compared to oceanographic time series from a nearby data buoy to investigate the responses of animals in sound-scattering layers to oceanic variability at seasonal and sub-seasonal time scales.  Pelagic animals, as measured by acoustic backscatter, moved higher in the water column and decreased in abundance during spring upwelling, attributed to avoidance of a shoaling oxycline and advection offshore.  Seasonal changes were most evident in a non-migrating scattering layer near 500 m depth that disappeared in spring and reappeared in summer, building to a seasonal maximum in fall.  At sub-seasonal time scales, similar responses were observed after individual upwelling events, though they were much weaker than the seasonal relationship.  Correlations of acoustic backscatter with oceanographic variability also differed with depth. Backscatter in the upper water column decreased immediately following upwelling, then increased approximately 20 days later. Similar correlations existed deeper in the water column, but at increasing lags, suggesting that near-surface productivity propagated down the water column at 10-15 m d-1, consistent with sinking speeds of marine snow measured in Monterey Bay.  Sub-seasonal variability in backscatter was best correlated with sea-surface height, suggesting that passive physical transport was most important at these time scales.", u'Background: Despite high-levels of vaccination, whooping cough, primarily caused by Bordetella pertussis (BP), has persisted and resurged. It remains a major cause of infant death worldwide and is the most prevalent vaccine-preventable disease in developed countries. To date, most genomic studies have focused on a small subset of the BP genome, biasing our clinical understanding and public health awareness.\n\nMethods: We performed a Genome-Wide Association Study (GWAS) on 76 U.S. BP whole genomes, including strains from recent outbreaks.\n\nResults: A GWAS of the 76 BP isolates revealed a sharp increase in genetic variation associated with the Minnesota 2012 outbreak and identified 52 variants unique to the Minnesota outbreak and 19 unique to the California and Washington outbreaks. None of the identified variants were shared between the outbreaks and the vast majority were previously uncharacterized. We further identified variation associated with pertactin negative strains and acellular vaccination.\n\nConclusions: We identified novel genomic regions associated with recent BP outbreaks. Our results underscore the need for increased whole genome sequencing of BP isolates, which can reduce costly misdiagnosis and improve surveillance. The genes containing these variants warrant further investigation into their possible roles in BP pathogenicity and the ongoing resurgence in the U.S.', u'We have developed a high-throughput sequencing approach that enables us to determine terminal telomere sequences from tens of thousands of individual Schizosaccharomyces pombe telomeres. This method provides unprecedented coverage of telomeric sequence complexity in fission yeast. S. pombe telomeres are composed of modular degenerate repeats that can be explained by variation in usage of the TER1 RNA template during reverse transcription. Taking advantage of this deep sequencing approach, we find that like repeat modules are highly correlated within individual telomeres. Moreover, repeat module preference varies with telomere length, suggesting that existing repeats promote the incorporation of like repeats and/or that specific conformations of the telomerase holoenzyme efficiently and/or processively add repeats of like nature. After the loss of telomerase activity, this sequencing and analysis pipeline defines a population of telomeres with altered sequence content. This approach should be adaptable to study telomeric repeats in other organisms and can provide new insights into telomere sequence content at high density.', u'Nucleosomes have structural and regulatory functions in all eukaryotic DNA-templated processes. The position of nucleosomes on DNA and the stability of the underlying histone-DNA interactions affect the access of regulatory proteins to DNA. Both stability and position are regulated through DNA sequence, histone post-translational modifications, histone variants, chromatin remodelers, and transcription factors. Here, we explored the functional implications of nucleosome properties on gene expression and development in C. elegans embryos. We performed a time-course of micrococcal nuclease (MNase) digestion, and measured the relative sensitivity or resistance of nucleosomes throughout the genome. Fragile nucleosomes were defined by nucleosomal DNA fragments recoverable preferentially in early MNase-digestion time points. We found fragile nucleosomes at locations where we expected to find destabilized nucleosomes, like transcription factor binding sites where nucleosomes compete with DNA-binding factors. Contrary to our expectation, the presence of fragile nucleosomes in gene promoters was anti-correlated with transcriptional activity. Instead, genes with fragile nucleosomes in their promoters tended to be expressed in a context-specific way, operating in neuronal response, the immune system, and stress response. Nucleosome fragility at these promoters was strongly and positively correlated with the AT content of the underlying DNA. There was not a strong correlation between promoter nucleosome fragility and the levels of histone modifications or histone variants. Our data suggest that in C. elegans promoters, nucleosome fragility is primarily a DNA-encoded feature that poises genes for future context-specific activation in response to environmental stress and developmental cues.', u'Glyphosate-resistant (GR) Kochia scoparia has evolved in dryland chemical fallow systems throughout North America and the mechanism involves 5-enolpyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase (EPSPS) gene duplication. Sugarbeet fields in four states were surveyed for K. scoparia in 2013 and tested for glyphosate-resistance level and EPSPS gene copy number. Glyphosate resistance was confirmed in K. scoparia populations collected from sugarbeet fields in Colorado, Wyoming, and Nebraska. The GR samples all had increased EPSPS gene copy number, with median population values up to 11. An empirical model was developed to estimate the level of glyphosate-resistance in K. scoparia based on EPSPS gene copy number. The results suggested that glyphosate susceptibility can be accurately diagnosed using EPSPS gene copy number, and further increases in EPSPS gene copy number could increase resistance levels up to 8-fold relative to susceptible K. scoparia. These trends suggest that continued glyphosate selection pressure is selecting for higher EPSPS copy number and higher resistance levels in K. scoparia. By including multiple K. scoparia samples lacking EPSPS gene duplication, our empirical model provides a more realistic estimate of fold-resistance due to EPSPS gene copy number compared to methods that do not account for normal variation of herbicide response in susceptible biotypes.', u'Single cell experiments provide an unprecedented opportunity to reconstruct a sequence of changes in a biological process from individual "snapshots" of cells. However, nonlinear gene expression changes, genes unrelated to the process, and the possibility of branching trajectories make this a challenging problem. We developed SLICER (Selective Locally Linear Inference of Cellular Expression Relationships) to address these challenges. SLICER can infer highly nonlinear trajectories, select genes without prior knowledge of the process, and automatically determine the location and number of branches and loops. SLICER more accurately recovers the ordering of points along simulated trajectories than existing methods. We demonstrate the effectiveness of SLICER on previously published data from mouse lung cells and neural stem cells.', u'Microbial pathogens often establish infection within particular niches of their host for replication. Determining how infection occurs preferentially in specific host tissues is a key aspect of understanding host-microbe interactions. Here, we describe the discovery of a natural microsporidian parasite of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans that has a unique tissue tropism compared to other parasites of C. elegans. We characterize the life cycle of this new species, Nematocida displodere, including pathogen entry, intracellular replication, and exit. N. displodere can invade multiple host tissues, including the epidermis, muscle, neurons, and intestine of C. elegans. Despite robust invasion of the intestine very little replication occurs there, with the majority of replication occurring in the muscle and epidermis. This feature distinguishes N. displodere from two closely related microsporidian pathogens, N. parisii and N. sp. 1, which exclusively invade and replicate in the intestine. Comparison of the N. displodere genome with N. parisii and N. sp. 1 reveals that N. displodere is the earliest diverging species of the Nematocida genus and devotes over 10% of its genome to a single species-specific gene family that may be mediating host interactions upon infection. Altogether, this system provides a convenient whole-animal model to investigate factors responsible for pathogen growth in different tissue niches.', u"Information sampling is often biased towards seeking evidence that confirms one's prior beliefs. Despite such biases being a pervasive feature of human behavior, their underlying causes remain unclear. Many accounts of these biases appeal to limitations of human hypothesis testing and cognition, de facto evoking notions of bounded rationality, but neglect more basic aspects of behavioral control. Here we demonstrate involvement of Pavlovian approach biases in determining which information humans will choose to sample. We collected a large novel dataset from 32,445 human subjects, making over 3 million decisions, who played a gambling task designed to measure the latent causes and extent of information-sampling biases. We identified three novel approach-related biases, formalized by comparing subject behavior to a dynamic programming model of optimal information gathering. These biases reflected the amount of information sampled ('positive evidence approach'), the selection of which information to sample ('sampling the favorite'), and the interaction between information sampling and subsequent choices ('rejecting unsampled options'). The prevalence of all three biases was related to a Pavlovian approach-avoid parameter quantified within an entirely independent economic decision task. Our large dataset also revealed that individual differences in information seeking are a stable trait across multiple gameplays, and can be related to demographic measures including age and educational attainment. As well as revealing limitations in cognitive processing, our findings suggest information sampling biases reflect the expression of primitive, yet potentially ecologically adaptive, behavioral repertoires. One such behavior is sampling from options that will eventually be chosen, even when other sources of information are more pertinent for guiding future action.", u'Background: The contribution of programmed cell death (PCD) to muscle wasting disorders remains a matter of debate. Drosophila melanogaster metamorphosis offers the opportunity to study muscle cell death in the context of development. Using live cell imaging of the abdomen, two groups of larval muscles can be observed, doomed muscles that undergo histolysis and persistent muscles that are remodelled and survive into adulthood. \nMethod: To identify and characterize genes that control the decision between survival and cell death of muscles, we developed a method comprising in vivo imaging, targeted gene perturbation and time-lapse image analysis. Our approach enabled us to study the cytological and temporal aspects of abnormal cell death phenotypes.     \nResults:  In a previous genetic screen for genes controlling muscle size and cell death in metamorphosis, we identified gene perturbations that induced cell death of persistent or inhibit histolysis of doomed larval muscles. RNA interference (RNAi) of the genes encoding the helicase Rm62 and the lysosomal Cathepsin-L homolog Cysteine proteinase 1 (Cp1) caused premature cell death of persistent muscle in early and mid-pupation, respectively. Silencing of the transcriptional co-repressor Atrophin inhibited histolysis of doomed muscles. Overexpression of dominant-negative Target of Rapamycin (TOR) delayed the histolysis of a subset of doomed and induced ablation of all persistent muscles. RNAi of AMPK\u03b1, which encodes a subunit of the AMPK protein complex that senses AMP and promotes ATP formation, led to loss of attachment and a spherical morphology. None of the perturbations affected the survival of newly formed adult muscles, suggesting that the method is useful to find genes that are crucial for the survival of metabolically challenged muscles, like those undergoing atrophy. The ablation of persistent muscles did not affect eclosion of adult flies.  \nConclusions: \nLive imaging is a versatile approach to uncover gene functions that are required for the survival of muscle undergoing remodelling, yet are dispensable for other adult muscles. Our approach promises to identify molecular mechanisms that can explain the resilience of muscles to PCD.', u'Advanced microscopy methods allow to obtain information on (dynamic) conformational changes in biomolecules via the measure of a single molecular distance in the structure. It is, however, extremely difficult to capture the full depth of a three-dimensional biochemical state, binding-related structural changes or conformational cross-talk in multi-protein complexes using a one-dimensional spatial measure. In this paper we address this fundamental problem by extending the standard ruler based on Foerster resonance energy transfer (FRET) into a two-dimensional assay via its combination with protein-induced fluorescence enhancement (PIFE). We show that donor brightness (via PIFE) and energy transfer efficiency (via FRET) can report on e.g., the state of dsDNA and its interaction with unlabelled proteins (BamHI, EcoRV, T7 DNA polymerase gp5/trx). The PIFE-FRET assay uses established labelling protocols and fluorescence detection schemes (alternating-laser excitation, ALEX). Besides quantitative studies of PIFE and FRET ruler characteristics, we outline possible applications of ALEX-based PIFE-FRET for single-molecule studies with diffusing and immobilized molecules.', u'Tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) have been associated with favorable prognosis in multiple tumor types. The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) represents the largest collection of cancer molecular data, but lacks detailed information about the immune environment. Here, we show that exome reads mapping to the complementarity-determining-region 3 (CDR3) of mature T-cell receptor beta (TCRB) can be used as an immune DNA (iDNA) signature. Specifically, we propose a method to identify CDR3 reads in a breast tumor exome and validate it using deep TCRB sequencing. In 1,078 TCGA breast cancer exomes, the fraction of CDR3 reads was associated with TILs fraction, tumor purity, adaptive immunity gene expression signatures and improved survival in Her2+ patients. Only 2/839 TCRB clonotypes were shared between patients and none associated with a specific HLA allele or somatic driver mutations. The iDNA biomarker enriches the comprehensive dataset collected through TCGA, revealing associations with other molecular features and clinical outcomes.', u'Actin, spectrin and associated molecules form a periodic, sub-membrane cytoskeleton in the axons of neurons. For a better understanding of this membrane-associated periodic skeleton (MPS), it is important to address how prevalent this structure is in different neuronal types, different subcellular compartments, and across different animal species. Here, we investigated the organization of spectrin in a variety of neuronal and glial-cell types. We observed the presence of MPS in all of the tested neuronal types cultured from mouse central and peripheral nervous systems, including excitatory and inhibitory neurons from several brain regions, as well as sensory and motor neurons. Quantitative analyses show that MPS is preferentially formed in axons in all neuronal types tested here: spectrin shows a long-range, periodic distribution throughout all axons, but only appears periodic in a small fraction of dendrites, typically in the form of isolated patches in sub-regions of these dendrites. As in dendrites, we also observed patches of periodic spectrin structures in a small fraction of glial-cell processes in four types of glial cells cultured from rodent tissues. Interestingly, despite its strong presence in the axonal shaft, MPS is absent in most presynaptic boutons, but is present in a substantial fraction of dendritic spine necks, including some projecting from dendrites where such a periodic structure is not observed in the shaft. Finally, we found that spectrin is capable of adopting a similar periodic organization in neurons of a variety of animal species, including Caenorhabditis elegans, Drosophila, Gallus gallus, Mus musculus and Homo sapiens.', u"Metazoan cytoplasmic dynein moves processively along microtubules with the aid of dynactin and an adaptor protein that joins dynein and dynactin into a stable ternary complex. Here, we have examined how Hook3, a cargo adaptor involved in Golgi and endosome transport, forms a motile dynein-dynactin complex. We show that the conserved Hook domain interacts directly with the dynein light intermediate chain 1 (LIC1). By solving the crystal structure of the Hook domain and using structure-based mutagenesis, we identify two conserved surface residues that are each critical for LIC1 binding. Hook proteins with mutations in these residues fail to form a stable dynein-dynactin complex, revealing a crucial role for LIC1 in this interaction. We also identify a region of Hook3 specifically required for an allosteric activation of processive motility. Our work reveals the structural details of Hook3's interaction with dynein and offers insight into how cargo adaptors form processive dynein-dynactin motor complexes.", u'Cell size is specific to each species and impacts their ability to function. While various phenomenological models for cell size regulation have been proposed, recent work in bacteria have demonstrated an adder mechanism, in which a cell increments its size by a constant amount between each division. However, the coupling between cell size, shape and constriction, remain poorly understood. Here, we investigate size control and the cell cycle dependence of bacterial growth, using multigenerational cell growth and shape data for single Caulobacter crescentus cells. Our analysis reveals a biphasic growth mechanism: a timer phase before constriction where the cell grows by a constant multiple of its initial size, followed by an adder phase during constriction. Synchronized cell wall labeling measurements reinforce this biphasic behavior: a crossover from uniform lateral growth to localized septal growth is observed. We quantitatively explain this mixer mechanism for size control using a mathematical model.', u'In the period before spawning, freshwater crayfish develop glair glands on the underside of the pleon. These glands produce the mucus for a tent-like structure in which the eggs are fertilized and attached to the pleopods. Long-term observation of females of slough crayfish, Procambarus fallax, kept in the laboratory without contact to males revealed that glair glands developed in late winter and early autumn of each year. However, in contrast to mated females, unmated females never formed fertilization tents and never spawned. Their glair glands persisted for an unusually long period of time and disappeared only during the next moult. Inhibition of spawning and mucus release from the glair glands suggests that the females had information on sperm availability and saved resources when unmated. Marbled crayfish, Procambarus virginalis, a parthenogenetic descendant of slough crayfish, developed glair glands and spawned in spring and autumn as their mother species although they never mated. These findings suggest that on their way from gonochorism to parthenogenesis regulation of spawning and glair gland activity has been decoupled from mating and sperm transfer.', u'Single-cell analysis techniques are frequently used to characterize and detect cell populations in biological samples. The latest advances in multicolor flow cytometry and mass cytometry enable measurement of dozens of parameters per cell in thousands of cells per second. This has led to bottlenecks in data analysis, since traditional gating techniques are insufficient for these large, high-dimensional data sets. To address this, major efforts have been made to develop automated analysis methods. A key step in automated analysis is the use of clustering methods to detect high-dimensional clusters representing cell populations. Here, we have performed an up-to-date, comprehensive, extensible comparison of clustering methods for detecting cell populations in high-dimensional flow and mass cytometry data, including several new methods that were not yet available during previous comparisons. We evaluated clustering methods using four publicly available data sets containing major immune cell populations as well as specific rare populations, with population identities available from manual gating. The comparisons revealed that FlowSOM (with optional meta-clustering but without automatic selection of the number of clusters) performed well across all data sets, and had among the fastest runtimes. We recommend FlowSOM as a first choice for analyzing new data sets. In particular, the fast runtimes enable interactive, exploratory analyses on a standard laptop. Several methods were sensitive to random starts when detecting rare cell populations, indicating that multiple random starts should be used in these cases. Our results provide a guide for researchers deciding between clustering methods for analyzing data sets from high-dimensional flow and mass cytometry experiments. R scripts to reproduce all analyses are available from GitHub (https://github.com/lmweber/cytometry-clustering-comparison), and preprocessed data files are available from FlowRepository (FR-FCM-ZZPH), allowing our comparisons to be extended to include new clustering methods and reference data sets.', u'Amino acid propensities at amino acid sites change with time due to epistatic interactions or changing environment, affecting the probabilities of fixation of different amino acids. Such changes should lead to an increased rate of homoplasies (reversals, parallelisms, and convergences) at closely related species. Here, we reconstruct the phylogeny of twelve mitochondrial proteins from several thousand metazoan species, and measure the phylogenetic distances between branches at which either different alleles originated due to divergent substitutions, or the same allele originated repeatedly due to homoplasies. The mean phylogenetic distance between parallel substitutions is ~20% lower than the mean phylogenetic distance between divergent substitutions, indicating that a variant fixed in a species is more likely to be deleterious in more phylogenetically remote species, compared to a more closely related species. These findings are robust to artefacts of phylogenetic reconstruction or of pooling of sites from different conservation classes or functional groups, and show that single-position fitness landscapes change at rates similar to rates of amino acid changes.', u'Background. Prevention of nosocomial transmission of infections is a central responsibility in the healthcare environment, and accurate identification of transmission events presents the first challenge. Phylogenetic analysis based on whole genome sequencing provides a high-resolution approach for accurately relating isolates to one another, allowing precise identification or exclusion of transmission events and sources for nearly all cases. We sequenced 24 methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) genomes to retrospectively investigate a suspected point source of three surgical site infections (SSIs) that occurred over a one-year period. The source of transmission was believed to be a surgical team member colonized with MRSA, involved in all surgeries preceding the SSI cases, who was subsequently decolonized. Genetic relatedness among isolates was determined using whole genome single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) data.\n\nResults. Whole genome SNP typing (WGST) revealed 283 informative SNPs between the surgical team members isolate and the closest SSI isolate. The second isolate was 286 and the third was thousands of SNPs different, indicating the nasal carriage strain from the surgical team member was not the source of the SSIs. Given the mutation rates estimated for S. aureus, none of the SSI isolates share a common ancestor within the past 14 years, further discounting any common point source for these infections. The decolonization procedures and resources spent on the point source infection control could have been prevented if WGST was performed at the time of the suspected transmission, instead of retrospectively.\n\nConclusions. Whole genome sequence analysis is an ideal method to exclude isolates involved in transmission events and nosocomial outbreaks, and coupling this method with epidemiological data can determine if a transmission event occurred. These methods promise to direct infection control resources more appropriately.', u'Position weight matrices (PWMs) are the standard model for DNA and RNA regulatory motifs. In PWMs nucleotide probabilities are independent of nucleotides at other positions. Models that account for dependencies need many parameters and are prone to overfitting. We have developed a Bayesian approach for motif discovery using Markov models in which conditional probabilities of order k\u22121 act as priors for those of order k. This Bayesian Markov model (BMM) training automatically adapts model complexity to the amount of available data. We also derive an EM algorithm for de-novo discovery of enriched motifs. For transcription factor binding, BMMs achieve significantly (p < 0.063) higher cross-validated partial AUC than PWMs in 97% of 446 ChIP-seq ENCODE datasets and improve performance by 36% on average. BMMs also learn complex multipartite motifs, improving predictions of transcription start sites, polyadenylation sites, bacterial pause sites, and RNA binding sites by 26% \u2212 101%. BMMs never performed worse than PWMs. These robust improvements argue in favour of generally replacing PWMs by BMMs. The Bayesian Markov Model motif discovery software BaMM!motif is available under GPL at http://github.com/soedinglab/BaMMmotif.', u'Neuromedin U (NMU) is a potent regulator of food intake and activity in mammals. While some downstream targets of NMU have been localized, connectivity of the neural circuits employing this neuropeptide is largely unknown. In Drosophila, neurons producing the homologous neuropeptide hugin regulate feeding and locomotion in a similar manner and project to structures of the central nervous system analogous to those in which NMU is found.  Here, we use EM reconstruction and receptor expression analysis to map the connectome of hugin-producing neurons in the Drosophila larval central nervous system. We show that hugin-producing neurons establish distinct units that are reciprocally connected and share connectivity motifs. One of these units employs fast synaptic transmission as well as neuromodulation to target neuroendocrine cells (NSCs) of the pars intercerebralis, the Drosophila homolog of the hypothalamus. These NSCs produce CRH- and insulin-like peptides, which are homologs of downstream targets of NMU. Furthermore, most of the hugin-producing neurons, including those that target the NSCs, receive inputs from chemosensory neurons in the subesophageal zone, the brain stem analog in Drosophila. Our data positions hugin neurons as part of a novel sensory-to-endocrine network that reflects the way NMU operates in mammals. We propose that the hugin neurons interconnecting chemosensory and neuroendocrine organs are part of a physiological control system that has been conserved not only at functional and molecular levels, but at the network architecture level as well.', u'Lineage-specifically duplicated genes likely contribute to the phenotypic divergence in closely related species. However, neither the frequency of duplication events nor the degree of selective pressures immediately after gene duplication is clear in the speciation process. Plants have substantially higher gene duplication rates than most other eukaryotes. Here, using Illumina short reads from Arabidopsis halleri, which has highly qualified plant genomes in close species (Brassica rapa, A. thaliana and A. lyrata), we succeeded in generating orthologous gene groups among B. rapa, A. thaliana, A. lyrata and A. halleri. The frequency of duplication events in the Arabidopsis lineage was approximately 10 times higher than the frequency inferred by comparative genomics of Arabidopsis, poplar, rice and moss. Of the currently retained genes in A. halleri, 11\u201324% had undergone gene duplication in the Arabidopsis lineage. To examine the degree of selective pressure for duplicated genes, we calculated the ratios of nonsynonymous to synonymous substitution rates (KA/KS) in the A. halleri-lyrata and A. halleri lineages. Using a maximum-likelihood framework, we examined positive (KA/KS > 1) and purifying selection (KA/KS < 1) at a significant level (P < 0.01). Duplicate genes tended to have a higher proportion of positive selection compared with non-duplicated genes. More interestingly, we found that functional divergence of duplicated genes was accelerated several million years after gene duplication at a higher proportion than immediately after gene duplication.', u"Characterizing traits critical for adaptation to a given environment is an important first step in understanding how phenotypes evolve. How animals adapt to the extreme heat and aridity commonplace to deserts represents is an exceptionally interesting example of these processes, and has been the focus of study for decades. In contrast to those studies, where experiments are conducted on either wild animals or captive animals held in non-desert conditions, the study described here leverages a unique environmental chamber that replicates desert conditions for captive Peromyscus eremicus (cactus mouse). Here we establish baseline values for daily water intake and for serum electrolytes, as well as the response of these variables to experimental dehydration. In brief, P. eremicus' daily water intake is very low. It's serum electrolytes are distinct from many previously studied animals, and its response to dehydration if profound, though not suggestive of renal impairment in the face of profound dehydration, which is atypical of mammals.", u'Chronic respiratory infections are composed of complex microbial communities that incite persistent inflammation and airway damage. Despite the high density of bacteria that colonize the airways, nutrient sources that sustain bacterial growth in vivo are unknown. Here we examine the role of respiratory mucins in the ecological dynamics of the cystic fibrosis lung microbiota. While P. aeruginosa was unable to efficiently utilize mucins, saliva-derived anaerobes stimulated the growth of opportunistic pathogens when provided mucins as the sole carbon source. The fermentative metabolisms of these oral anaerobes generated amino acids and short chain fatty acids (propionate and acetate) during mucin enrichment in vitro, which were also found within expectorated sputum from CF patients. The significance of these findings was supported by in vivo P. aeruginosa gene expression, which revealed a heightened response to propionate. Given that propionate is exclusively derived from bacterial fermentation, these data support a central role for mucin fermentation in the carbon flux of the lower airways. More specifically, commensal oral bacteria may contribute to airway disease by degrading mucins, in turn providing nutrients for pathogens otherwise unable to obtain carbon in the lung.', u"Metacommunity matrices contain data on species incidence or abundance across sites, compactly portraying community composition and how it varies over sites. We constructed models based on an initial metacommunity matrix of either species incidence or abundance to test whether such data suffice to predict subsequent changes in incidence or abundance at each site. We then tested these models against extensive empirical data on vascular plant incidence and abundance collected from 156 forested sites in both the 1950s and 2000s. Predictions from these models parallel observed changes in species incidence and abundance in two distinctly different forest metacommunities and differ greatly from null model predictions. The abundance model shows greater power than the incidence model reflecting its higher information content. Predictions were more accurate for the more diverse forests of southern Wisconsin which are changing faster in response to succession and fragmentation. Simulations demonstrate that these results are fairly robust to variation in sampling intensity. These models, based only on the metacommunity matrix, do not require data on site conditions or species' characteristics. They thus provide a useful baseline for assessing more complex models incorporating data on species' functional traits, local site conditions, or landscape context. They may also prove useful to conservation biologists seeking to predict local population declines and extinction risks.", u'Whole metagenome shotgun sequencing is a powerful approach for assaying the functional potential of microbial communities. Presently, we lack tools that efficiently and accurately align DNA reads against protein references, the technique necessary for constructing a functional profile. Here, we present PALADIN - a novel modification of Burrows-Wheeler Aligner that provides more accurate alignment and orders-of-magnitude improved efficiency by directly mapping in protein space.', u"During embryonic development, cells must establish fates, morphologies and behaviors in coordination with one another to form a functional body. A prevalent hypothesis for how this coordination is achieved is that each cell's fate and behavior is determined by a defined mixture of RNAs. Only recently has it become possible to measure the full suite of transcripts in a single cell. Here we quantify the abundance of every mRNA transcript in each cell of the C. elegans embryo up to the 16-cell stage. We describe spatially dynamic expression, quantify cell-specific differential activation of the zygotic genome, and identify critical developmental genes previously unappreciated because of their partial redundancy. We present an interactive data visualization tool that allows broad access to our dataset. This genome-wide single-cell map of mRNA abundance, alongside the well-studied life history and fates of each cell, describes at a cellular resolution the mRNA landscape that guides development.", u'The oxygen status of a tumor has significant clinical implications for treatment prognosis, with well-oxygenated subvolumes responding markedly better to radiotherapy than poorly supplied regions. Oxygen is essential for tumor growth, yet estimation of local oxygen distribution can be difficult to ascertain in situ, due to chaotic patterns of vasculature. It is possible to avoid this confounding influence by using avascular tumor models, such as Multi-Cellular Tumor Spheroids  (MCTS), where oxygen supply can be\ndescribed by diffusion alone and are a much better approximation of realistic tumor dynamics\nthan monolayers. Similar to in situ tumours, spheroids exhibit an approximately\nsigmoidal growth curve, often approximated and fitted by logistic and Gompertzian sigmoid\nfunctions. These describe the basic rate of growth well, but do not offer an explicitly mechanistic explanation. This work examines the oxygen dynamics of spheroids and demonstrates that this growth can be derived mechanistically with cellular doubling\ntime and oxygen consumption rate (OCR) being key parameters. The model is fitted to growth curves for a range of cell lines and derived values of OCR are validated using clinical measurement. Finally, we illustrate how changes in OCR due to gemcitabine\ntreatment can be directly inferred using this model.', u'Sexual reproduction is a trait shared by all complex life, but the complete account of its origin is missing. Virtually all theoretical work on the evolution of sex has been centered around the benefits of reciprocal recombination among nuclear genes, paying little attention to the evolutionary dynamics of multi-copy mitochondrial genomes. Here I develop a mathematical model to study the evolution of nuclear alleles inducing cell fusion in an ancestral population of clonal proto-eukaryotes. Segregational drift maintains high mitochondrial variance between clonally reproducing hosts, but the effect of segregation is opposed by cytoplasmic mixing which tends to reduce variation between cells in favor of higher heterogeneity within the cell. Despite the reduced long-term population fitness, alleles responsible for sexual cell fusion can spread to fixation. The evolution of sex requires negative epistatic interactions between mitochondrial mutations under strong purifying selection, low mutation load and weak mitochondrial-nuclear associations. I argue that similar conditions could have been maintained during the late stages of eukaryogenesis, facilitating the evolution of sexual cell fusion and meiotic recombination without compromising the stability of the emerging complex cell.', u'Influenza genes evolve mostly via point mutations, and so knowing the effect of every amino-acid mutation provides information about evolutionary paths available to the virus. We previously used high-throughput mutagenesis and deep sequencing to estimate the effects of all mutations to an H1 influenza hemagglutinin on viral replication in cell culture (Thyagarajan and Bloom, 2014); however, these measurements suffered from substantial noise. Here we describe advances that greatly improve the accuracy and reproducibility of our measurements. The largest improvements come from using a helper virus to reduce bottlenecks when generating viruses from plasmids. Our measurements confirm that antigenic sites on the globular head of hemagglutinin are highly tolerant of mutations. However, other regions -- including stalk epitopes targeted by broadly neutralizing antibodies -- have a limited capacity to evolve. The ability to accurately measure the effects of all influenza mutations should enhance efforts to understand and predict viral evolution.', u"Magnetotactic bacteria are aquatic organisms that produce subcellular magnetic crystals in order to orient in the earth's geomagnetic field. The genetic basis for this process has been dissected in the model magnetotactic bacterium Magnetospirillum magneticum AMB-1, leading to the identification of biomineralization genes that control the formation and growth of magnetite crystals. One such factor, MamE, is a predicted member of the HtrA family of serine proteases, a widespread enzyme family that plays important roles in protein turnover and quality control. MamE was recently shown to promote the proteolytic processing of itself and two other biomineralization factors in vivo. Here, we have studied MamE-dependent proteolysis in detail. We analyzed the in vivo processing patterns of three proteolytic targets and used this information to reconstitute proteolysis with a purified form of MamE. MamE cleaves a custom peptide substrate with positive cooperativity, and its auto-proteolysis can be stimulated with exogenous substrates or peptides that bind to either of its PDZ domains. A constitutively active form of the protease causes biomineralization defects, showing that proper regulation of its activity is required during biomineralization in vivo. Our results demonstrate for the first time that MamE is a bonafide HtrA protease and that its activity is consistent with the previously proposed checkpoint model for biomineralization", u'High-throughput sequencing has laid the foundation for fast and cost-effective development of phylogenetic markers. Here we present the program DiscoMark, which streamlines the development of nuclear DNA (nDNA) markers from whole-genome (or whole-transcriptome) sequencing data, combining local alignment, alignment trimming, reference mapping and primer design based on multiple sequence alignments in order to design primer pairs from input orthologous sequences. In order to demonstrate the suitability of DiscoMark we designed markers for two groups of species, one consisting of closely related species and one group of distantly related species. For the closely related members of the species complex of Cloeon dipterum s.l. (Insecta, Ephemeroptera), the program discovered a total of 77 markers. Among these, we randomly selected eight markers for amplification and Sanger sequencing. The exon sequence alignments (2,526 base pairs (bp)) were used to reconstruct a well supported phylogeny and to infer clearly structured haplotype networks. For the distantly related species we designed primers for several families in the insect order Ephemeroptera, using available genomic data from four sequenced species. We developed primer pairs for 23 markers that are designed to amplify across several families. The DiscoMark program will enhance the development of new nDNA markers by providing a streamlined, automated approach to perform genome-scale scans for phylogenetic markers. The program is written in Python, released under a public license (GNU GPL v2), and together with a manual and example data set available at: https://github.com/hdetering/discomark.', u"The recently introduced Kallisto(dx.doi.org/10.1038/nbt.3519, Bray et al.,2015) pseudoaligner has radically simplified the quantification of transcripts in RNA-sequencing experiments. However, as with all computational advances, reproducibility across experiments requires attention to detail. The elegant approach of Kallisto reduces dependencies, but we noted differences in quantification between versions of Kallisto, and both upstream preparation and downstream interpretation benefit from an environment that enforces a requirement for equivalent processing when comparing groups of samples.  Therefore, we created the Artemis and TxDbLite R packages to meet these needs and to ease cloud-scale deployment of the above.  TxDbLite extracts structured information directly from source FASTA files with per-contig metadata, while Artemis enforces versioning of the derived indices and annotations, to ensure tight coupling of inputs and outputs while minimizing external dependencies.  The two packages are combined in Illumina's BaseSpace cloud computing environment to offer a massively parallel and distributed quantification step for power users, loosely coupled to biologically informative downstream analyses via gene set analysis (with special focus on Reactome annotations for ENSEMBL transcriptomes). Previous work (e.g. Soneson, et al., 2016)(dx.doi.org/10.1186/s13059-015-0862-3) has revealed that filtering transcriptomes to exclude lowly-expressed isoforms can improve statistical power, while more-complete transcriptome assemblies improve sensitivity in detecting differential transcript usage.  Based on earlier work by Bourgon et. al (http://www.pnas.org/content/107/21/9546.full), 2010, we included this type of filtering for both gene- and transcript-level analyses within Artemis.  For reproducible and versioned downstream analysis of results, we focused our efforts on ENSEMBL and Reactome integration within the qusage (Yaari et. al, 2013) framework, adapted to take advantage of the parallel and distributed environment in Illumina's BaseSpace cloud platform.  We show that quantification and interpretation of repetitive sequence element transcription is eased in both basic and clinical studies by just-in-time annotation and visualization. The option to retain pseudoBAM output for structural variant detection and annotation, while not insignificant in its demand for computation and storage, nonetheless provides a middle ground between de novo transcriptome assembly and routine quantification while consuming a fraction of the resources  Finally, we describe common use cases where investigators are better served by cloud-based computing platforms such as BaseSpace due to inherent efficiencies of scale and enlightened common self-interest. Our experiences suggest a common reference point for methods development, evaluation, and experimental interpretation.", u'Reaching a depth of 713 m below the surface, the Soudan Underground Iron Mine (Soudan, Minnesota, USA) transects a massive Archaean (2.7 Ga) banded iron formation, providing a remarkably accessible window into the terrestrial deep biosphere.  Despite carbon limitation, metal-reducing microbial communities are present in potentially ancient anoxic brines continuously emanating from exploratory boreholes on Level 27.  Using graphite electrodes deposited in situ as bait, we enriched and isolated a novel halophilic iron-reducing Deltaproteobacterium, Desulfuromonas soudanensis strain WTL, from an acetate-fed three-electrode bioreactor poised at +0.24 V (vs. standard hydrogen electrode).  Cyclic voltammetry revealed that D. soudanensis releases electrons at redox potentials approximately 100 mV more positive than the model freshwater surface isolate Geobacter sulfurreducens, suggesting that its extracellular respiration is tuned for higher potential electron acceptors. D. soudanensis contains a 3,958,620-bp circular genome, assembled to completion using single-molecule real-time (SMRT) sequencing reads, which encodes a complete TCA cycle, 38 putative multiheme c-type cytochromes, one of which contains 69 heme-binding motifs, and a LuxI/LuxR quorum sensing cassette that produces an unidentified N-acyl homoserine lactone. Another cytochrome is predicted to lie within a putative prophage, suggesting that horizontal transfer of respiratory proteins plays a role in respiratory flexibility among metal reducers. Isolation of D. soudanensis underscores the utility of electrode-based approaches for enriching rare metal reducers from a wide range of habitats.', u'We introduce PICS (Pathway Informed Classification System) for classifying cancers based on tumor sample gene expression levels. The method clearly separates a pan-cancer dataset into their tissue of origin and is also able to sub-classify individual cancer datasets into distinct survival classes. Gene expression values are collapsed into pathway scores that reveal which biological activities are most useful for clustering cancer cohorts into sub-types. Variants of the method allow it to be used on datasets that do and do not contain non-cancerous samples. Activity levels of all types of pathways, broadly grouped into metabolic, cellular processes and signaling, and immune system, are useful for separating the pan-cancer cohort. In the clustering of specific cancer types, certain pathway types become more valuable depending on the site being studied. For lung cancer, signaling pathways dominate, for pancreatic cancer signaling and metabolic pathways, and for melanoma immune system pathways are the most useful. This work suggests the utility of pathway level genomic analysis and points in the direction of using pathway classification for predicting the efficacy and side effects of drugs and radiation.', u'Chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by deep sequencing (ChIP-Seq) is a widely used approach to study protein-DNA interactions. To analyze ChIP-Seq data, practitioners are required to combine tools based on different statistical assumptions and dedicated to specific applications such as calling protein occupancy peaks or testing for differential occupancies. Here, we present GenoGAM (Genome-wide Generalized Additive Model), which brings the well-established and flexible generalized additive models framework to genomic applications using a data parallelism strategy. We model ChIP-Seq read count frequencies as products of smooth functions along chromosomes. Smoothing parameters are estimated from the data eliminating ad-hoc binning and windowing needed by current approaches.\nWe derived a peak caller based on GenoGAM with performance matching state-of-the-art methods. Moreover, GenoGAM provides significance testing for differential occupancy with controlled type I error rate and increased sensitivity over existing methods. By analyzing a set of DNA methylation data, we further demonstrate the potential of GenoGAM as a generic analysis tool for genome-wide assays.', u'Brain decoding is a popular multivariate approach for hypothesis testing in neuroimaging. Linear classifiers are widely employed in the brain decoding paradigm to discriminate among experimental conditions. Then, the derived linear weights are visualized in the form of multivariate brain maps to further study the spatio-temporal patterns of underlying neural activities. It is well known that the brain maps derived from weights of linear classifiers are hard to interpret because of high correlations between predictors, low signal to noise ratios, and the high dimensionality of neuroimaging data. Therefore, improving the interpretability of brain decoding approaches is of primary interest in many neuroimaging studies. Despite extensive studies of this type, at present, there is no formal definition for interpretability of multivariate brain maps. As a consequence, there is no quantitative measure for evaluating the interpretability of different brain decoding methods. In this paper, first, we present a theoretical definition of interpretability in brain decoding; we show that the interpretability of multivariate brain maps can be decomposed into their reproducibility and representativeness. Second, as an application of the proposed definition, we formalize a heuristic method for approximating the interpretability of multivariate brain maps in a binary magnetoencephalography (MEG) decoding scenario. Third, we propose to combine the approximated interpretability and the performance of the brain decoding into a new multi-objective criterion for model selection. Our results for the MEG data show that optimizing the hyper-parameters of the regularized linear classifier based on the proposed criterion results in  more informative multivariate brain maps. More importantly, the presented definition provides the theoretical background for quantitative evaluation of interpretability, and hence, facilitates the development of more effective brain decoding algorithms in the future.', u'Temporal asynchrony among species is an important mechanism through which diversity can stabilize ecosystem functioning, but identifying the mechanisms that determine synchrony remains a challenge. Here, we refine and test theory showing that synchrony depends on three factors: species responses to environmental variation, interspecific competition, and demographic stochasticity. We then conduct simulation experiments with empirical population models to quantify the relative importance of these factors in five plant communities. Simulation experiments showed that the average synchrony of per capita growth rates, which can range from 0 (perfect asynchrony) to 1\n(perfect synchrony), was higher when environmental variation was present (0.62) rather than absent (0.43). Removing interspecific competition and demographic stochasticity had small effects on synchrony. In these plant communities, where species interactions and demographic stochasticity have little influence, synchrony reflects the covariance in species responses to the environment.', u'Interspecific hybridization is recognized as a widespread phenomenon but measuring its extent, directionality, and adaptive importance in the evolution of species remain challenging. Polar bears possess unique adaptations to life on the Arctic sea ice, whereas their closest relatives - brown bears - are boreal and subarctic generalists. Despite largely non-overlapping modern distributions, genomic evidence demonstrates ancient admixture between these species. Here, we analyze new genomes from contemporary zones of species overlap as well as a previously sequenced 120,000-year old polar bear subfossil. We use explicit statistical fitting of data to admixture graphs to provide a framework for testing alternative scenarios of population relationships and gene flow directionality. Our analyses favor a single, parsimonious introgression event from relatives of extant Southeast Alaskan coastal brown bears into the ancestor of extant polar bears, which inverts the current paradigm of unidirectional gene flow from polar into brown bear. This conclusion has clear implications for our understanding of the impact of climate change: a specialist Arctic lineage may have been the recipient of generalist, boreal genetic variants at crucial times during critical phases of Northern Hemisphere glacial oscillations.', u'ABSTRACT\nObjetives\nWe suggest that the phylogeny and phylogeography of mtDNA macrohaplogroup M in\nEurasia and Australasia is better explained supposing an out of Africa of modern humans\nfollowing a northern route across the Levant than the most prevalent southern coastal route\nacross Arabia and India proposed by others.\nMethods\nA total 206 Saudi samples belonging to macrohaplogroup M have been analyzed. In\naddition, 4107 published complete or nearly complete Eurasian and Australasian mtDNA\ngenomes ascribed to the same macrohaplogroup have been included in a global\nphylogeographic analysis.\nResults\nMacrohaplogroup M has only historical implantation in West Eurasia including the Arabian\nPeninsula. Founder ages of M lineages in India are significantly younger than those in East\nAsia, Southeast Asia and Near Oceania. These results point to a colonization of the Indian\nsubcontinent by modern humans carrying M lineages from the east instead the west side.\nConclusions\nThe existence of a northern route previously advanced by the phylogeography of mtDNA\nmacrohaplogroup N is confirmed here by that of macrohaplogroup M. Taking this genetic\nevidence and those reported by other disciplines we have constructed a new and more\nconciliatory model to explain the history of modern humans out of Africa.', u'The Eurasian sympatry of Neandertals and anatomically modern humans - beginning at least 45,000 years ago and lasting for more than 5,000 years - has long sparked anthropological interest into the factors that potentially contributed to Neandertal extinction. Among many different hypotheses, the "differential pathogen resistance" extinction model posits that Neandertals were disproportionately affected by exposure to novel infectious diseases that were transmitted during the period of spatiotemporal sympatry with modern humans. Comparisons of new archaic hominin paleogenome sequences with modern human genomes have confirmed a history of genetic admixture - and thus direct contact - between humans and Neandertals. Analyses of these data have also shown that Neandertal nuclear genome genetic diversity was likely considerably lower than that of the Eurasian anatomically modern humans with whom they came into contact, perhaps leaving Neandertal innate immune systems relatively more susceptible to novel pathogens. In this study, we compared levels of genetic diversity in genes for which genetic variation is hypothesized to benefit pathogen defense among Neandertals and African, European, and Asian modern humans, using available exome sequencing data (six chromosomes per population). We observed that Neandertals had only 31-39% as many nonsynonymous (amino acid changing) polymorphisms across 73 innate immune system genes compared to modern human populations. We also found that Neandertal genetic diversity was relatively low in an unbiased set of balancing selection candidate genes for primates - genes with the highest 1% genetic diversity genome-wide in non-human apes. In contrast, Neandertals had similar to higher levels of genetic diversity than humans in 13 major histocompatibility complex (MHC) genes. Thus, while Neandertals may have been relatively more susceptible to some novel pathogens and differential pathogen resistance could be considered as one potential contributing factor in their extinction, this model does have limitations.', u'In the premature ageing disease Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome (HGPS) the underlying genetic defect in the lamin A gene leads to accumulation at the nuclear lamina of progeria,  a mutant form of lamin A that cannot be correctly processed. This has been reported to result in defects in the DNA damage response and in DNA repair, leading to the\nhypothesis that, as in normal ageing and in other progeroid syndromes caused by mutation of genes of the DNA repair and DNA damage response pathways, increased DNA damage may be responsible for the premature ageing phenotypes in HGPS patients. However, this\nhypothesis is based upon the study of markers of the DNA damage response, rather than measurement of DNA damage per se or the consequences of unrepaired DNA damage - mutation. Here, using a mutation reporter cell line, we directly compared the inherent and\ninduced mutation rates in cells expressing wild-type lamin A or progerin. We find no evidence for an elevated mutation rate in progerin-expressing cells. We conclude that the cellular defect in HGPS cells does not lie in the repair of DNA damage per se.', u'Here, we establish a novel economic system to quantify C. elegans mechanosensory behavior and memory by a controllable nanoscale mechanical stimulation. Using piezoelectric sheet speaker, we can flexibly change the vibration properties at a nanoscale displacement level and quantify behavioral responses and memory under the control of each vibration property. This system will facilitate understanding of physiological aspects of C. elegans mechanosensory behavior and memory.', u'Herbivores often move among spatially interspersed host plants, tracking high-quality resources through space and time. This dispersal is of particular interest for vectors of plant pathogens. Existing molecular tools to track such movement have yielded important insights, but often provide insufficient genetic resolution to infer spread at finer spatiotemporal scales. Here, we explore the use of Nextera-tagmented reductively-amplified DNA (NextRAD) sequencing to infer movement of a highly-mobile winged insect, the potato psyllid (Bactericera cockerelli), among host plants. The psyllid vectors the pathogen that causes zebra chip disease in potato (Solanum tuberosum), but understanding and managing the spread of this pathogen is limited by uncertainty about the insect\u2032s host plant(s) outside of the growing season. We identified 8,443 polymorphic loci among psyllids separated spatiotemporally on potato or in patches of bittersweet nightshade (S. dulcumara), a weedy plant proposed to be the source of potato-colonizing psyllids. A subset of the psyllids on potato exhibited close genetic similarity to insects on nightshade, consistent with regular movement between these two host plants. However, a second subset of potato-collected psyllids was genetically distinct from those collected on bittersweet nightshade; this suggests that a currently unrecognized host-plant species could be contributing to psyllid populations in potato. Oftentimes, dispersal of vectors of plant or animal pathogens must be tracked at a relatively fine scale in order to understand, predict, and manage disease spread. We demonstrate that emerging sequencing technologies that detect SNPs across a vector\u2032s entire genome can be used to infer such localized movement.', u'Embryos of temnopleurid sea urchins exhibit species-specific morphologies. While Temnopleurus toreumaticus has a wrinkled blastula, others have a smooth blastula. Embryos of T. toreumaticus invaginate continuously at gastrulation, whereas in some others invagination is stepwise. We studied blastula and gastrula formation in four temnopleurids using light and scanning electron microscopy to clarify the mechanisms producing these differences. Unlike T. toreumaticus, blastomeres of mid-blastulae in T. reevesii, T. hardwickii and Mespilia globulus formed pseudopods. Before primary mesenchyme cells ingressed, embryos developed an area of orbicular cells in the vegetal plate. The cells surrounding the orbicular cells extended pseudopods toward the orbicular cell area in T. toreumaticus, T. reevesii and T. hardwickii. In T. toreumaticus, the extracellular matrix was well-developed and developed a hole-like structure that was not formed in others. Gastrulation of T. reevesii, T. hardwickii and M. globulus was stepwise, suggesting that differences of gastrulation are caused by all or some of factors: change of cell shape, rearrangement, pushing up and towing of cells. These species-specific morphologies may be caused by the shape and surface structure of blastomeres with cell-movement.', u'Recent years have seen an increase in the popularity of multivariate pattern (MVP) analysis of functional magnetic resonance (fMRI) data, and, to a much lesser extent, magneto- and electro-encephalography (M/EEG) data. We present CoSMoMVPA, a lightweight MVPA (MVP analysis) toolbox implemented in the intersection of the Matlab and GNU Octave languages, that treats both fMRI and M/EEG data as first-class citizens.\n\nCoSMoMVPA supports all state-of-the-art MVP analysis techniques, including searchlight analyses, classification, correlations, representational similarity analysis, and the time generalization method. These can be used to address both data-driven and hypothesis-driven questions about neural organization and representations, both within and across: space, time, frequency bands, neuroimaging modalities, individuals, and species.\n\nIt uses a uniform data representation of fMRI data in the volume or on the surface, and of M/EEG data at the sensor and source level. Through various external toolboxes, it directly supports reading and writing a variety of fMRI and M/EEG neuroimaging formats, and, where applicable, can convert between them. As a result, it can be integrated readily in existing pipelines and used with existing preprocessed datasets. \n\nCoSMoMVPA overloads the traditional volumetric searchlight concept to support neighborhoods for M/EEG and surface-based fMRI data, which supports localization of multivariate effects of interest across space, time, and frequency dimensions. CoSMoMVPA also provides a generalized approach to multiple comparison correction across these dimensions using Threshold-Free Cluster Enhancement with state-of-the-art clustering and permutation techniques.\n\nCoSMoMVPA is highly modular and uses abstractions to provide a uniform interface for a variety of MVP measures. Typical analyses require a few lines of code, making it accessible to beginner users. At the same time, expert programmers can easily extend its functionality.\n\nCoSMoMVPA comes with extensive documentation, including a variety of runnable demonstration scripts and analysis exercises (with example data and solutions). It uses best software engineering practices including version control, distributed development, an automated test suite, and continuous integration testing. It can be used with the proprietary Matlab and the free GNU Octave software, and it complies with open source distribution platforms such as NeuroDebian.\n\nCoSMoMVPA is Free/Open Source Software under the permissive MIT license. \n\nWebsite: https://cosmomvpa.org\n\nSource code: https://github.com/CoSMoMVPA/CoSMoMVPA', u'It is clear that prior expectations shape perceptual decision-making, yet their contribution to the construction of subjective decision confidence remains largely unexplored. We recorded fMRI data while participants made perceptual decisions and confidence judgements, controlling for potential confounds of attention. Results show that subjective confidence increases as perceptual prior expectations increasingly support the decision, and that this relationship is associated with BOLD activity in right inferior frontal gyrus (rIFG). Specifically, rIFG is sensitive to the discrepancy between expectation and decision (mismatch), and, crucially, higher mismatch responses are associated with lower decision confidence. Connectivity analyses revealed the source of the expectancy information to be bilateral orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) and the source of sensory signals to be intracalcarine sulcus. Altogether, our results indicate that predictive information is integrated into subjective confidence in rIFG, and reveal an occipital-frontal network that constructs confidence from top-down and bottom-up signals. This interpretation was further supported by exploratory findings that the white matter density of intracalcarine sulcus and OFC negatively predicted their respective contributions to the construction of confidence. Our findings advance our understanding of the neural basis of subjective perceptual processes by revealing an occipito-frontal functional network that integrates prior beliefs into the construction of confidence.', u"Biomolecular temperature sensors can be used for efficient control of large-volume bioreactors, for spatiotemporal control and imaging of gene expression, as well as to engineer robustness to temperature in biomolecular circuit design. While RNA-based sensors, called 'thermometers', have been investigated in natural and synthetic contexts, an important challenge is to design different responses to temperature, differing in sensitivities and thresholds. We address this issue using experimental measurements in cells and in cell-free biomolecular 'breadboards' in combination with computations of RNA thermodynamics. We designed a library of RNA thermometers, finding, computationally, that it could contain a multiplicity of responses to temperature. We constructed this library and found a wide range of responses to temperature, ranging from 3.5-fold to over 10-fold in the temperature range 29\xb0C - 37\xb0C. These were largely linear responses with over 10-fold difference in slopes. We correlated the measured responses with computational expectations, finding that while there was no strong correlation in the individual values, the overall trends were similar. These results present a toolbox of RNA-based circuit elements with varying temperature sensitivities.", u'The recently introduced Oxford Nanopore MinION platform generates DNA sequence data in real-time. This opens immense potential to shorten the sample-to-results time and is likely to lead to enormous benefits in rapid diagnosis of bacterial infection and identification of drug resistance. However, there are very few tools available for streaming analysis of real-time sequencing data. Here, we present a framework for streaming analysis of MinION real-time sequence data, together with probabilistic streaming algorithms for species typing, multi-locus strain typing, gene presence strain-typing and antibiotic resistance profile identification. Using three culture isolate samples as well as a mixed-species sample, we demonstrate that bacterial species and strain information can be obtained within 30 minutes of sequencing and using about 500 reads, initial drug-resistance profiles within two hours, and complete resistance profiles within 10 hours. Multi-locus strain typing required more than 15x coverage to generate confident assignments, whereas gene-presence typing could detect the presence of a known strain with 0.5x coverage. We also show that our pipeline can process over 100 times more data than the current throughput of the MinION on a desktop computer.', u"Alternative splicing increases the diversity of transcriptomes and proteomes in metazoans. The extent to which alternative splicing is active and functional in unicellular organisms is less understood. Here we exploit a single-molecule long-read sequencing technique and develop an open-source software program called SpliceHunter to characterize the transcriptome in the meiosis of fission yeast. We reveal 17017 alternative splicing events in 19741 novel isoforms at different stages of meiosis, including antisense and read-through transcripts. Intron retention is the major type of alternative splicing, followed by 'alternate intron in exon'. 887 novel transcription units are detected; 60 of the predicted proteins show homology in other species and form theoretical stable structures. We compare the dynamics of novel isoforms based on the number of supporting full-length reads with those of annotated isoforms and explore the translational capacity and quality of novel isoforms. The evaluation of these factors indicates that the majority of novel isoforms are unlikely to be both condition-specific and translatable but the possibility of functional novel isoforms is not excluded. Moreover, the co-option of these unusual transcripts into newly born genes seems likely.  Together, this study highlights the diversity and dynamics at the isoform level in the sexual development of fission yeast.", u'Background\nGenetic surveillance of the human filarial parasite, Onchocerca volvulus, from onchocerciasis endemic regions will ideally focus on genotyping individual infective larval stages collected from their intermediate host, Simuliid blackflies. However, blackflies also transmit other Onchocerca species, including the cattle parasite O. ochengi, which are difficult to distinguish from the human parasite based on morphological characteristics alone. This study describes a versatile approach to discriminate between O. volvulus and O. ochengi that is demonstrated using parasite infective larvae dissected from blackflies.\n\nResults\nA speciation assay was designed based on genetic differentiation between O. volvulus and O. ochengi mitochondrial genome sequences that can be performed in high-throughput high-resolution melt- or lower throughput conventional RFLP analyses. This assay was validated on 185 Onchocerca larvae dissected from blackflies captured from 14 communities in Ghana throughout 2011-13. The frequency of O. ochengi was approximately 67% of all larvae analyzed, which is significantly higher than previously reported in this region. Furthermore, the species distribution was not uniform throughout the study region, with 25%, 47%, and 93% of O. volvulus being found in the western-most (Black Volta, Tain and Tombe), the central (Pru) and eastern-most (Daka) river basins, respectively.\n\nConclusions\nThis tool provides a simple and cost-effective approach to determine the identity and distribution of two Onchocerca species, and will be valuable for future genetic studies that focus on parasites collected from blackflies. The results presented highlight the need to discriminate Onchocerca species in transmission studies, as the frequency of each species varied significantly between the communities studied.', u'Human DNA identification is currently performed\nby amplifying a small, defined set of short tandem repeat (STR) loci (e.g. CODIS) and analyzing the size of the alleles present at\nthose loci by capillary electrophoresis. High-throughput DNA sequencing (HTS) could enable the simultaneous analysis of many additional STR and single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) loci, improving accuracy and discrimination. However, it is necessary\nto demonstrate that HTS can generate accurate data on the CODIS loci to enable backwards compatibility with the FBI NDIS database. Sequencing can also detect novel polymorphisms within alleles that migrate with identical sizes by capillary electrophoresis, improving allele discrimination, and enhancing human identification analysis. All CODIS alleles from an individual can be amplified in a single, multiplex PCR reaction, and combined with additional barcoded samples prior to\nsequencing. A computational tool for allele identification from multiplexed sequence data has been developed. With longer-readlength\nplatforms, 99.6% allele calling accuracy can be achieved. In the course of STR sequencing protocol development, 12 novel allele sequences have been identified for multiple loci. Sequencing STR loci combined with SNPs will enable new forensic applications.', u'It is tempting to think of the more than 1.5 billion people who live in South Asia as one large ethnic group, but in fact, South Asia is better viewed as comprised of very many small endogamous groups that usually marry within their own group (caste or tribe). To perform a high resolution assessment of South Asian demography, we assembled genome-wide data from over 2,000 individuals from over 250 distinct South Asian groups, more than tripling the number of diverse India groups for which such data are available, and including tribe and caste groups sampled from every state in India. We document shared ancestry across groups that correlates with geography, language, and caste affiliation, and characterize the strength of the founder events that gave rise to many of these groups. Over a third of the groups, including eighteen with census sizes of more than a million, descend from founder events stronger than those in Ashkenazi Jews and Finns, both of which have high rates of recessive disease due to their histories of strong founder events. These results highlight a major and unappreciated opportunity for reducing the disease burden among South Asians through the discovery of and genetic testing for recessive disease genes.', u"Chromosome 7 is a hot spot for cognitive disorders involving language deficits. We report on a girl who presents with a cognitive and speech delay, motor problems, hearing loss, and behavioral disturbances, and a de novo deletion within 7q32.1-q33 (chromosome position: chr7:127109685-132492196, hg 18). Several genes involved in brain development and function are located within the deleted region. Many of them are related to developmental disorders encompassing language deficits (dyslexia, speech-sound disorder, and autism). The proband's phenotype may result from a change in the expression level of some of these genes.", u'The ability to predict familial relationships from\nsource DNA in multiple samples has a number of forensic and\nmedical applications. Kinship testing of suspect DNA profiles\nagainst relatives in a law enforcement database can provide\nvaluable investigative leads, determination of familial relationships\ncan inform immigration decisions, and remains identification\ncan provide closure to families of missing individuals.\nThe proliferation of High-Throughput Sequencing technologies\nallows for enhanced capabilities to accurately predict familial\nrelationships to the third degree and beyond. KinLinks, developed\nby MIT Lincoln Laboratory, is a software tool that predicts\npairwise relationships and reconstructs kinship pedigrees for\nmultiple input samples using single-nucleotide polymorphism\n(SNP) profiles. The software has been trained and evaluated on\na set of 175 subjects (30,450 pairwise relationships), consisting of\nthree multi-generational families and 52 geographically diverse\nsubjects. Though a panel of 5396 SNPs was selected for kinship\nprediction, KinLinks is highly modular, allowing for the substitution\nof expanded SNP panels and additional training models\nas sequencing capabilities continue to progress. KinLinks builds\non the SNP-calling capabilities of Sherlocks Toolkit, and is fully\nintegrated with the Sherlocks Toolkit pipeline.', u'Sparse canonical correlation analysis (SCCA) is a useful approach for correlating one set of measurements, such as single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), with another set of measurements, such as gene expression levels.  We present a fast implementation of SCCA, enabling rapid analysis of hundreds of thousands of SNPs together with thousands of phenotypes. Our approach is implemented both as an R package flashpcaR and within the standalone commandline tool flashpca.', u'Haplotype assembly or read-based phasing is the problem of reconstructing both haplotypes of a diploid genome from next-generation sequencing data. This problem is formalized as the Minimum Error Correction (MEC) problem and can be solved using algorithms such as WhatsHap. The runtime of WhatsHap is exponential in the maximum coverage, which is hence controlled in a pre-processing step that selects reads to be used for phasing. Here, we report on a heuristic algorithm designed to choose beneficial reads for phasing, in particular to increase the connectivity of the phased blocks and the number of correctly phased variants compared to the random selection previously employed in by WhatsHap. The algorithm we describe has been integrated into the WhatsHap software, which is available under MIT licence from https://bitbucket.org/whatshap/whatshap.', u'Rapid reproduction contributes to evolutionary fitness but can be lethal under stress. Microbes are thought to limit risk in clonal populations by bet hedging; the stochastic expression of a low frequency of slow growing cells constitutively resistant to unpredictable environmental stresses including antibiotics. However fitness depends on rapid recovery and resumption of growth in potentially lethal environments whose severity and duration are also unpredictable.  Here we describe trade-offs between osmotic stress-responsive signaling, survival and proliferation in 50 ecologically distinct strains of budding yeast. By contrast with prior examples, programmed bet hedging responses were heritable, stress-specific and varied continuously in our population.  During rapid growth strong osmotic stress signaling promoted survival. Weak signaling predicted lower viability, intense rebound signaling, and robust recovery. Older cultures survived and adapted to unprecedented stress with fitness depending on reproducible, strain-specific proportions of cells with divergent strategies. The most cautious cells survive extreme stress without dividing; the most reckless cells attempt to divide too soon and fail, killing both mother and daughter.  Heritable proportions of cautious and reckless cells generate a tunable, rapidly diversifying template for microbial bet hedging that resembles natural variation and would evolve in different patterns of environmental stress.', u'A long standing debate in biochemistry is to determine whether the conformational changes observed during biomolecular interactions proceed through conformational selection (of preexisting isoforms) or induced fit (ligand-induced 3D reshaping). The latter mechanism had been invoked in certain circumstances, for example to explain the non-Michaelian activity of monomeric enzymes like glucokinase. But the relative importance of induced fit has been recently depreciated in favor of conformational selection, assumed to be always sufficient, predominant in general and in particular for glucokinase. This question is reconsidered here in the light of earlier concepts such as the cyclic equilibrium rule and the turning wheel of Wyman, in and out of equilibrium, using single molecule state probability, one way fluxes and net fluxes. The conditions for a switch from conformational selection to induced fit at a given ligand concentration are explicited. Out of equilibrium, the inspection of the enzyme states circuit shows that conformational selection alone would give a Michaelian reaction rate but not the established nonlinear behavior of glucokinase. Moreover, when induced fit and conformational selection coexist and allow kinetic cooperativity, the net flux emerging in the linkage cycle is necessarily oriented in the direction of the induced fit path.', u"Malaria transmission is dependent on the propensity of Anopheles mosquitoes to bite humans (anthropophily) instead of other dead end hosts. Recent increases in the usage of Long Lasting Insecticide Treated Nets (LLINs) in Africa have been associated with reductions in highly anthropophilic vectors such as Anopheles gambiae s.s., leaving more zoophilic species such as Anopheles arabiensis as the most prominent remaining source of transmission in many settings. An. arabiensis appears to be more of a generalist in terms of host preference and resting behavior, which may be due to phenotypic plasticity or segregating allelic variation. To investigate the genetic basis of host preference and resting behavior in An. arabiensis we sequenced and analyzed genomes of 48 human- or cattle-fed An. arabiensis that were captured resting indoors or outdoors in a village in the Kilombero Valley, Tanzania. A total of 4,820,851 SNPs were identified and used to conduct the first genome-wide estimates of 'SNP heritability' for host-choice and resting behavior in this species. A genetic component was detected for host choice (human vs cow fed; permuted p = 0.002), but the genetic component for resting behavior was negligible (indoors versus outside: permuted p = 0.465). A principal component analysis (PCA) segregated individuals into three groups which are characterized by the 2Rb and/or 3Ra paracentromeric chromosome inversions. There was a non-random distribution of cattle-fed mosquitoes between the PCA clusters, suggesting that alleles linked to the 2Rb and/or 3Ra inversions may influence host preference. Using a novel inversion genotyping assay developed to test for an association between inversion state and host choice, we detected a significant enrichment of the standard (non-inverted) 3Ra arrangement among cattle-fed mosquitoes (N=129) compared to human-fed (N=134; \u03c72, p=0.046) and versus all non-cattle-fed individuals (N=234; \u03c72, p=0.007; Table 2).  Thus, tracking the frequency of the 3Ra in An. arabiensis populations is important, especially in relation to the emergence of behavioral avoidance (e.g. shifting toward zoophily) in some populations so countermeasures can be implemented. A better understanding of the genetic basis for host preference in An. arabiensis may also improve vector control if cattle-biting mosquitoes can be genetically engineered and driven in a population, having an effect similar in concept to zooprophylaxis.", u'How urbanization shapes population genomic diversity and evolution of urban wildlife is largely unexplored. We investigated the impact of urbanization on white-footed mice, Peromyscus leucopus, in the New York City metropolitan area using coalescent-based simulations to infer demographic history from the site frequency spectrum. We assigned individuals to evolutionary clusters and then inferred recent divergence times, population size changes, and migration using genome-wide SNPs genotyped in 23 populations sampled along an urban-to-rural gradient. Both prehistoric climatic events and recent urbanization impacted these populations. Our modeling indicates that post-glacial sea level rise led to isolation of mainland and Long Island populations. These models also indicate that several urban parks represent recently-isolated P. leucopus populations, and the estimated divergence times for these populations are consistent with the history of urbanization in New York City.', u'The flowering plant Arabidopsis thaliana is a dicot model organism for research in many aspects of plant biology. A comprehensive annotation of its genome paves the way for understanding the functions and activities of all types of transcripts, including mRNA, noncoding RNA, and small RNA. The most recent annotation update (TAIR10) released more than five years ago had a profound impact on Arabidopsis research. Maintaining the accuracy of the annotation continues to be a prerequisite for future progress. Using an integrative annotation pipeline, we assembled tissue-specific RNA-seq libraries from 113 datasets and constructed 48,359 transcript models of protein-coding genes in eleven tissues. In addition, we annotated various classes of noncoding RNA including small RNA, long intergenic RNA, small nucleolar RNA, natural antisense transcript, small nuclear RNA, and microRNA using published datasets and in-house analytic results. Altogether, we identified 738 novel protein-coding genes, 508 novel transcribed regions, 5,051 non-coding genes, and 35,846 small-RNA loci that formerly eluded annotation. Analysis on the splicing events and RNA-seq based expression profile revealed the landscapes of gene structures, untranslated regions, and splicing activities to be more intricate than previously appreciated. We also present 692 uniformly expressed housekeeping genes, 43% of whose human orthologs are also housekeeping genes. This updated Arabidopsis genome annotation with a substantially increased resolution of gene models will not only further our understanding of the biological processes of this plant model but also of other species.', u'Mathematical models of biochemical networks are useful tools to understand and ultimately predict how cells utilize nutrients to produce valuable products. Hybrid cybernetic models in combination with elementary modes (HCM-EM) is a tool to model cellular metabolism. However, HCM-EM is limited to reduced metabolic networks because of the computational burden of calculating elementary modes. In this study, we developed the hybrid cybernetic modeling with flux balance analysis or HCM-FBA technique which uses flux balance solutions instead of elementary modes to dynamically model metabolism. We show HCM-FBA has comparable performance to HCM-EM for a proof of concept metabolic network and for a reduced anaerobic E. coli network. Next, HCM-FBA was applied to a larger metabolic network of aerobic E. coli metabolism which was infeasible for HCM-EM (29 FBA modes versus more than 153,000 elementary modes). Global sensitivity analysis further reduced the number of FBA modes required to describe the aerobic E. coli data, while maintaining model fit. Thus, HCM-FBA is a promising alternative to HCM-EM for large networks where the generation of elementary modes is infeasible.', u"Single cell gene expression profiling can be used to quantify transcriptional dynamics in temporal processes, such as cell differentiation, using computational methods to label each cell with a `pseudotime' where true time series experimentation is too difficult to perform. However, owing to the high variability in gene expression between individual cells, there is an inherent uncertainty in the precise temporal ordering of the cells. Preexisting methods for pseudotime ordering have predominantly given point estimates precluding a rigorous analysis of the implications of uncertainty. We use probabilistic modelling techniques to quantify pseudotime uncertainty and propagate this into downstream differential expression analysis. We demonstrate that reliance on a point estimate of pseudotime can lead to inflated false discovery rates compared and that probabilistic approaches provide greater robustness and measures of the temporal resolution that can be obtained from pseudotime inference.", u'The involvement of actin-associated protein palladin in myogenesis has been elucidated, however, palladin distribution in a functional myotube remains to be identified. Since actin is required for myofibrillogenesis, it is of great interest to enhance our understanding of the spatial arrangements of palladin during sarcomeric assembly. Surprisingly, palladin was found to be discretely organized in different stages of myofibrillogenesis. Palladin revealed stress-fiber-like structures at undifferentiated stages, subsequently displayed chaotic expression and strongly co-distributed with actin, \u03b1-actinin, and myosin heavy chain of premyofibrils. At late stages, aggregates of palladin were spaced in a regular dot-like structure. On the other hand, palladin presents at I-Z-I bands of adult muscle. These observations suggest that palladin engages with sarcomeric proteins during the process of myoblast differentiation and that these interactions might occur in a temporally regulated fashion. In addition, transient overexpression of 140-kDa-palladin resulted in nonfilamentous actin arresting mature myotube formation. 200-kDa-palladin overexpression led to the early formation of Z-lines. Collectively, these findings suggest that palladin might serve a role in myofibrillogenesis by guiding and positioning sarcomeric proteins at the appropriate time and place. Our results highlight the involvement of palladin protein and the discrete functions of palladin isoforms in sarcomeric development in vitro.', u'Methylation in mammalian DNA occurs primarily at CpG sequences. \nThe CpG sites are distributed in high density clusters (or islands) separated by extended regions of low density. Cluster methylation tends to be bimodal, being dominantly unmethylated or mostly methylated. For CpG clusters near promoters, low methylation is associated with transcriptional activity, while high methylation is associated with gene silencing. Alternative CpG methylation states are thought to be stable and heritable, conferring localized epigenetic memory that allows transient signals to create long-lived gene expression states.  Positive feedback where methylated CpG sites recruit enzymes that methylate nearby CpGs, does not easily explain that as clusters increase in size or density they change from being primarily methylated to primarily unmethylated. Here, we show that an interaction between the methylation state of a cluster and its occupancy by nucleosomes provides a mechanism to reproduce \nepigenetic potential and the genome wide systematics of CpG islands.', u'The fatty acid composition of membrane glycerolipids is a major determinant of Staphylococcus aureus membrane biophysical properties that impacts key factors in cell physiology including susceptibility to membrane active antimicrobials, pathogenesis, and response to environmental stress. The fatty acids of S. aureus are considered to be a mixture of branched-chain fatty acids (BCFAs), which increase membrane fluidity, and straight-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) that decrease it. The balance of BCFAs and SCFAs in strains USA300 and SH1000 was affected considerably by differences in the conventional laboratory medium in which the strains were grown with media such as Mueller-Hinton broth and Luria broth resulting in high BCFAs and low SCFAs, whereas growth in Tryptic Soy Broth and Brain-Heart Infusion broth led to reduction in BCFAs and an increase in SCFAs. Straight-chain unsaturated fatty acids (SCUFAs) were not detected. However, when the organism was grown ex vivo in serum, the fatty acid composition was radically different with SCUFAs, which increase membrane fluidity, making up a substantial proportion of the total (<25%) with SCFAs (>37%)  and BCFAs (>36%)  making up the rest. Staphyloxanthin, an additional major membrane lipid component unique to S. aureus, tended to be greater in content in cells with high BCFAs or SCUFAs. Cells with high staphyloxanthin content had a lower membrane fluidity that was attributed to increased production of staphyloxanthin. S. aureus saves energy and carbon by utilizing host fatty acids for part of its total fatty acids when growing in serum. The fatty acid composition of in vitro grown S. aureus is likely to be a poor reflection of the fatty acid composition and biophysical properties of the membrane when the organism is growing in an infection in view of the role of SCUFAs in staphylococcal membrane composition and virulence.', u'Sterols are essential components of eukaryotic cells whose biosynthesis and function in eukaryotes has been studied extensively. Sterols are also recognized as the diagenetic precursors of steranes preserved in sedimentary rocks where they can function as geological proxies for eukaryotic organisms and/or aerobic metabolisms and environments. However, production of these lipids is not restricted to the eukaryotic domain as a few bacterial species also synthesize sterols. Phylogenomic studies have identified genes encoding homologs of sterol biosynthesis proteins in the genomes of several additional species, indicating that sterol production may be more widespread in the bacterial domain than previously thought. Although the occurrence of sterol synthesis genes in a genome indicates the potential for sterol production, it provides neither conclusive evidence of sterol synthesis nor information about the composition and abundance of basic and modified sterols that are actually being produced. Here, we coupled bioinformatics with lipid analyses to investigate the scope of bacterial sterol production. We identified oxidosqualene cyclase (Osc), which catalyzes the initial cyclization of oxidosqualene to the basic sterol structure, in 34 bacterial genomes from 5 phyla (Bacteroidetes, Cyanobacteria, Planctomycetes, Proteobacteria and Verrucomicrobia) and in 176 metagenomes. Our data indicate that bacterial sterol synthesis likely occurs in diverse organisms and environments and also provides evidence that there are as yet uncultured groups of bacterial sterol producers.  Phylogenetic analysis of bacterial and eukaryotic Osc sequences revealed two potential lineages of the sterol pathway in bacteria indicating a complex evolutionary history of sterol synthesis in this domain. We characterized the lipids produced by Osc-containing bacteria and found that we could generally predict the ability to synthesize sterols. However, predicting the final modified sterol based on our current knowledge of bacterial sterol synthesis was difficult. Some bacteria produced demethylated and saturated sterol products even though they lacked homologs of the eukaryotic proteins required for these modifications emphasizing that several aspects of bacterial sterol synthesis are still completely unknown. It is possible that bacteria have evolved distinct proteins for catalyzing sterol modifications and this could have significant implications for our understanding of the evolutionary history of this ancient biosynthetic pathway.', u'Self-reported tiredness and low energy, often called fatigue, is associated with poorer physical and mental health. Twin studies have indicated that this has a heritability between 6% and 50%. In the UK Biobank sample (N = 108 976) we carried out a genome-wide association study of responses to the question, \u2033Over the last two weeks, how often have you felt tired or had little energy?\u2033 Univariate GCTA-GREML found that the proportion of variance explained by all common SNPs for this tiredness question was 8.4% (SE = 0.6%). GWAS identified one genome-wide significant hit (Affymetrix id 1:64178756_C_T; p = 1.36 x 10-11). LD score regression and polygenic profile analysis were used to test for pleiotropy between tiredness and up to 28 physical and mental health traits from GWAS consortia. Significant genetic correlations were identified between tiredness and BMI, HDL cholesterol, forced expiratory volume, grip strength, HbA1c, longevity, obesity, self-rated health, smoking status, triglycerides, type 2 diabetes, waist-hip ratio, ADHD, bipolar disorder, major depressive disorder, neuroticism, schizophrenia, and verbal-numerical reasoning (absolute rg effect sizes between 0.11 and 0.78). Significant associations were identified between tiredness phenotypic scores and polygenic profile scores for BMI, HDL cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, coronary artery disease, HbA1c, height, obesity, smoking status, triglycerides, type 2 diabetes, and waist-hip ratio, childhood cognitive ability, neuroticism, bipolar disorder, major depressive disorder, and schizophrenia (standardised \u03b2\u2032s between -0.016 and 0.03). These results suggest that tiredness is a partly-heritable, heterogeneous and complex phenomenon that is phenotypically and genetically associated with affective, cognitive, personality, and physiological processes.', u'Aptamers, short synthetic RNA/DNA molecules binding specific targets with high affinity and specificity, are utilized in an increasing spectrum of bio-medical applications. Aptamers  are identified in vitro via the Systematic Evolution of Ligands by Exponential Enrichment (SELEX) protocol. SELEX selects binders through an iterative process that, starting from a  pool of random ssDNA/RNA sequences, amplifies target-affine species through a series of selection cycles. HT-SELEX, which combines SELEX with high throughput sequencing, has recently transformed aptamer development and has opened the field to even more applications. HT-SELEX is capable of generating over half a billion data points, challenging computational scientists with the task of identifying aptamer properties such as sequence structure motifs that determine binding. While currently available motif finding approaches suggest partial solutions to this question, none possess the generality or scalability required for HT-SELEX data, and they do not take advantage of important properties of the experimental procedure.\n\nWe present AptaTRACE, a novel approach for the identification of sequence-structure binding motifs in HT-SELEX derived aptamers.  Our approach leverages the experimental design of the SELEX protocol and identifies sequence-structure motifs that show a signature of selection. Because of its unique approach, AptaTRACE can uncover motifs even when these are present in only a minuscule fraction of the pool. Due to these features, our method can help to reduce the number of selection cycles required to produce aptamers with the desired properties, thus reducing cost and time of this rather expensive procedure. The performance of the method on simulated and real data indicates that AptaTRACE can detect sequence-structure motifs even in highly challenging data.', u'We describe a reference panel of 64,976 human haplotypes at 39,235,157 SNPs constructed using whole genome sequence data from 20 studies of predominantly European ancestry. Using this resource leads to accurate genotype imputation at minor allele frequencies as low as 0.1%, a large increase in the number of SNPs tested in association studies and can help to discover and refine causal loci. We describe remote server resources that allow researchers to carry out imputation and phasing consistently and efficiently.', u'Geobacter sulfurreducens uses at least two different pathways to transport electrons out of the inner membrane quinone pool before reducing acceptors beyond the outer membrane. When growing on electrodes poised at oxidizing potentials, the CbcL-dependent pathway operates at or below redox potentials of -0.10 V vs. the Standard Hydrogen Electrode (SHE), while the ImcH-dependent pathway operates only above this value. Here, we provide evidence that G. sulfurreducens also requires different electron transfer proteins for reduction of a wide range of Fe(III)- and Mn(IV)- (oxyhydr)oxides, and must transition from a high- to low-potential pathway during reduction of commonly studied minerals. Freshly precipitated Fe(III)-(oxyhydr)oxides could not be reduced by mutants lacking the high potential pathway. Aging these minerals by autoclaving did not change their powder X-ray diffraction pattern, but restored reduction by mutants lacking the high-potential pathway. Mutants lacking the low-potential, CbcL-dependent pathway had higher growth yields with Fe(III). Together, these data suggest that the ImcH-dependent pathway exists to harvest additional energy when conditions permit, and CbcL allows respiration closer to thermodynamic equilibrium conditions. With evidence of multiple pathways within a single organism, the study of extracellular respiration should consider not only the crystal structure or solubility of a mineral electron acceptor, but rather the redox potential, as this variable determines the energetic reward affecting reduction rates, extents, and final microbial growth yields in the environment.', u"Plasmids have important roles in antibiotic resistance and in affecting production of metabolites used in industrial and agricultural applications. However, their extraction through deep sequencing remains challenging, in spite of rapid drops in cost and throughput increases for sequencing. Here, we attempt to ameliorate this situation by introducing a new plasmid-specific assembly algorithm, leveraging assembly graphs provided by a conventional de novo assembler and alignments of paired-end reads to assembled graph nodes. We introduce the first tool for this task, called Recycler, and demonstrate its merits in comparison with extant approaches. We show that Recycler greatly increases the number of true plasmids recovered while remaining highly accurate. On simulated plasmidomes, Recycler recovered 5-14% more true plasmids compared to extant methods, and overall precision of about 90%. We validate these results on real data, by comparison against available reference sequences and quantifying annotation of predicted ORFs.  All 12 of Recycler's outputs on isolate samples matched known plasmids or phages, and had alignments having at least 97% identity over at least 99% of the reported reference sequence lengths. For the two E. Coli strains examined, most known plasmid sequences were recovered, while in both cases additional plasmids only known to be present in different hosts were found. Recycler also generated plasmids in high agreement with known annotation on real plasmidome data. Moreover, 6 of 8 plasmids previously validated by PCR were completely recovered. Recycler is available at http://github.com/Shamir-Lab/Recycler", u"ATRX is a SWI/SNF chromatin remodeler proposed to govern genomic stability through the regulation of repetitive sequences such as rDNA, retrotransposons, and pericentromeric and telomeric repeats. However, few direct ATRX target genes have been identified and high-throughput genomic approaches are currently lacking for ATRX. Here we present a comprehensive ChIP-sequencing study of ATRX in multiple human cell lines, in which we identify the 3' exons of zinc finger genes (ZNFs) as a new class of ATRX targets. These 3' exonic regions encode the zinc finger motifs, which can range from 1-40 copies per ZNF gene and share large stretches of sequence similarity. These regions often contain an atypical chromatin signature: they are transcriptionally active, contain high levels of H3K36me3 and are paradoxically enriched in H3K9me3. We find that these ZNF 3' exons are co-occupied by SETDB1, TRIM28 and ZNF274, which form a complex with ATRX. CRISPR/Cas9-mediated loss-of-function studies demonstrate (i) a reduction of H3K9me3 at the ZNF 3' exons in the absence of ATRX and ZNF274 and, (ii) H3K9me3 levels at atypical chromatin regions are particularly sensitive to ATRX loss compared to other H3K9me3-occupied regions. As a consequence of ATRX or ZNF274 depletion, cells with reduced levels of H3K9me3 show increased levels of DNA damage, suggesting that ATRX binds to the 3' exons of ZNFs to maintain their genomic stability through preservation of H3K9me3.", u'We propose a probabilistic framework to infer autosomal and sex-linked genes from RNA-seq data of a cross for any sex chromosome type (XY, ZW, UV). Sex chromosomes (especially the non-recombining and repeat-dense Y, W, U and V) are notoriously difficult to sequence. Strategies have been developed to obtain partially assembled sex chromosome sequences. However, most of them remain difficult to apply to numerous non-model organisms, either because they require a reference genome, or because they are designed for evolutionarily old systems. Sequencing a cross (parents and progeny) by RNA-seq to study the segregation of alleles and infer sex-linked genes is a cost-efficient strategy, which also provides expression level estimates. However, the lack of a proper statistical framework has limited a broader application of this approach. Tests on empirical data show that our method identifies many more sex-linked genes than existing pipelines, while making reliable inferences for downstream analyses. Simulations suggest few individuals are needed for optimal results. For species with unknown sex-determination system, the method can assess the presence and type (XY versus ZW) of sex chromosomes through a model comparison strategy. The method is particularly well optimised for sex chomosomes of young or intermediate age, which are expected in thousands of yet unstudied lineages. Any organism, including non-model ones for which nothing is known a priori, that can be bred in the lab, is suitable for our method. SEX-DETector is made freely available to the community through a Galaxy workflow.', u'A common way to analyse relationship between matrix of species attributes (like functional traits of indicator values) and sample attributes (e.g. environmental variables) via the matrix of species composition is by calculating community-weighted mean of species attributes (CWM) and relating it to sample attributes by correlation, regression, ANOVA or other method. This weighted-mean approach is used in number of ecological fields (e.g. functional and vegetation ecology, biogeography, hydrobiology or paleolimnology), and represents an alternative to other methods relating species and sample attributes via species composition matrix (like the fourth-corner problem and RLQ analysis).\n\tHere, I point out two important problems of weighted-mean approach: 1) in certain cases, which I discuss in detail, the method yields highly biased results in terms of both effect size and significance of the relationship between CWM and sample attributes, and 2) this bias is contingent upon beta diversity of species composition matrix. CWM values calculated from samples of communities sharing some species are not independent from each other and this lack of independence influences the number of effective degrees of freedom. This is usually lower than actual number of samples entering the analysis, and the difference further increases with decreasing compositional heterogeneity of the dataset. Discrepancy between number of effective degrees of freedom and number of samples in analysis turns into biased effect sizes and inflated Type I error rate in case that significance of the relationship is tested by standard tests, a problem which is analogous to analysis of two spatially autocorrelated variables. \n\tConsequences of the bias is that reported results of studies using rather homogeneous (although not necessarily small) compositional datasets may be overly optimistic, and results of studies based on datasets differing by their compositional heterogeneity are not directly comparable. I describe the reason for this bias and suggest guidelines how to decide in which situations the bias is actually a problem for interpretation of results. I also introduce analytical solution accounting for the bias, test its validity on simulated data and compare it with an alternative approach based on the fourth-corner approach.', u'Mixed models have become the tool of choice for genetic association studies; however, standard mixed model methods may be poorly calibrated or underpowered under family sampling bias and/or case-control ascertainment. Previously, we introduced a liability threshold based mixed model association statistic (LTMLM) to address case-control ascertainment in unrelated samples.  Here, we consider family-biased case-control ascertainment, where cases and controls are ascertained non-randomly with respect to family relatedness.  Previous work has shown that this type of ascertainment can severely bias heritability estimates; we show here that it also impacts mixed model association statistics.  We introduce a family-based association statistic (LT-Fam) that is robust to this problem. Similar to LTMLM, LT-Fam is computed from posterior mean liabilities (PML) under a liability threshold model; however, LT-Fam uses published narrow-sense heritability estimates to avoid the problem of biased heritability estimation, enabling correct calibration.  In simulations with family-biased case-control ascertainment, LT-Fam was correctly calibrated (average \u03c72 = 1.00), whereas Armitage Trend Test (ATT) and standard mixed model association (MLM) were mis-calibrated (e.g. average \u03c72 = 0.50-0.67 for MLM).  LT-Fam also attained higher power in these simulations, with increases of up to 8% vs. ATT and 3% vs. MLM after correcting for mis-calibration.  In 1,269 type 2 diabetes cases and 5,819 controls from the CARe cohort, downsampled to induce family-biased ascertainment, LT-Fam was correctly calibrated whereas ATT and MLM were again mis-calibrated (e.g. average \u03c72 = 0.60-0.82 for MLM).  Our results highlight the importance of modeling family sampling bias in case-control data sets with related samples.', u'Accurate quantification and enumeration of peptide motifs is hampered by redundancy in peptide identification. A single phosphorylation motif may be split across charge states, alternative modifications (e.g. acetylation and oxidation), and multiple miss-cleavage sites which render the biological interpretation of MS data a challenge. In addition motif redundancy can affect quantitative and statistical analysis and prevent a realistic comparison of peptide numbers between datasets. In this study, we present a merging tool set developed for the Galaxy workflow environment to achieve a non-redundant set of quantifications for phospho-motifs. We present a Galaxy workflow to merge three exemplar dataset, and observe reduced phospho-motif redundancy and decreased replicate variation. The qpMerge tools provide a straightforward and reusable approach to facilitating phospho-motif analysis.\n\nThe source-code and wiki documentation is publically available at http://sourceforge.net/projects/ppmerge. The galaxy pipeline used in the exemplar analysis can be found at http://www.myexperiment.org/workflows/4186.', u'A soil metagenomic library carried in pJC8 (an IncP cosmid) was used for functional complementation for \u03b2 galactosidase activity in both \u03b1 Proteobacteria (Sinorhizobium meliloti) and \u03b3 Proteobacteria (Escherichia coli). One \u03b2 galactosidase, encoded by overlapping clones selected in both hosts, was identified as a member of glycoside hydrolase family 2. ORFs obviously encoding possible \u03b2 galactosidases were not identified in 19 other clones that were only able to complement S. meliloti. Based on low sequence similarity to known glycoside hydrolases but not \u03b2-galactosidases, three ORFs were examined further. Biochemical analysis confirmed that all encoded \u03b2 galactosidase activity. Bioinformatic and structural modeling implied that Lac161_ORF10 protein represented a novel enzyme family with a five-bladed propeller glycoside hydrolase domain.', u'The availability of large-scale population genomic sequence data has resulted in an explosion in efforts to infer the demographic histories of natural populations across a broad range of organisms. As demographic events alter coalescent genealogies they leave detectable signatures in patterns of genetic variation within and between populations. Accordingly, a variety of approaches have been designed to leverage population genetic data to uncover the footprints of demographic change in the genome, thereby elucidating population histories. The vast majority of these methods make the simplifying assumption that the measures of genetic variation used as their input are unaffected by natural selection. However, natural selection can dramatically skew patterns of variation not only at selected sites, but at linked, neutral loci as well. Here we assess the impact of recent positive selection on demographic inference by characterizing the performance of three popular methods through extensive simulation of datasets with varying numbers of linked selective sweeps. In particular, we examined three different demographic models relevant to a number of species, finding that positive selection can bias parameter estimates of each of these models--often severely. Moreover, we find that selection can lead to incorrect inferences of population size changes when none have occurred. We argue that the amount of recent positive selection required to skew inferences may often be acting in natural populations. These results suggest that demographic studies conducted in many species to date may have exaggerated the extent and frequency of population size changes.', u'In a recent publication, Sood et al. presented a set of 150 probe-sets which could be used in a diagnosis of Alzheimer disease (AD) based on gene expression. We reproduce some of their experiments, and show that the performance of their particular set of 150 probe-sets does not stand out compared to that of randomly sampled sets of 150 probe-sets from the same array.', u'Zika virus (ZIKV) originated and continues to circulate in a sylvatic transmission cycle between non-human primate hosts and arboreal mosquitoes in tropical Africa. Recently ZIKV invaded the Americas, where it poses a threat to human health, especially to pregnant women and their infants. Here we examine the risk that ZIKV will establish a sylvatic cycle in the Americas, focusing on Brazil. We review the natural history of sylvatic ZIKV and present a mathematical dynamic transmission model to assess the probability of establishment of a sylvatic ZIKV transmission cycle in non-human primates and/or other mammals and arboreal mosquito vectors in Brazil. Brazil is home to multiple species of primates and mosquitoes potentially capable of ZIKV transmission, though direct assessment of host competence (ability to mount viremia sufficient to infect a feeding mosquito) and vector competence (ability to become infected with ZIKV and disseminate and transmit upon subsequent feedings) of New World species is lacking. Modeling reveals a high probability of establishment of sylvatic ZIKV across a large range of biologically plausible parameters. Probability of establishment is dependent on host population sizes and birthrates and ZIKV force of infection, but a network of as few as 6,000 primates with 10,000 mosquitoes is capable of supporting establishment of a ZIKV sylvatic cycle. Research on the susceptibility of New World monkeys or other small mammals to ZIKV, on the vector competence of New World Aedes, Sabethes, and Haemagogus mosquitoes for ZIKV, and on the geographic range of these species is urgently needed. A sylvatic cycle of ZIKV would make future elimination efforts in the Americas practically impossible, and paints a dire situation for the epidemiology of ZIKV and ending the ongoing outbreak of congenital Zika syndrome.', u'Zfp423 encodes a 30-zinc finger transcription factor that intersects several canonical signaling pathways. Zfp423 mutations result in ciliopathy-related phenotypes, including agenesis of the cerebellar vermis in mice and Joubert syndrome (JBTS19) and nephronophthisis (NPHP14) in humans. Unlike most ciliopathy genes, Zfp423 encodes a nuclear protein and its developmental expression is complex, leading to alternative proposals for cellular mechanisms. Here we show that Zfp423 is expressed by cerebellar granule cell precursors, that loss of Zfp423 in these precursors leads to cell-intrinsic reduction in proliferation, loss of response to Shh, and primary cilia abnormalities that include diminished translocation of both Smoothened and IFT88. Loss of Zfp423 alters expression of several genes encoding key cilium components, including increased expression of Tulp3. Tulp3 is a direct binding target of Zfp423 and reducing the overexpression of Tulp3 in Zfp423-deficient cells suppresses Smoothened translocation defects. These results define Zfp423 deficiency as a bona fide ciliopathy, acting upstream of Shh signaling, and indicate a mechanism intrinsic to granule cell precursors for the resulting cerebellar hypoplasia.', u'Long-term selection experiments provide a powerful approach to gain empirical insights into adaptation by uncovering the targets of selection and inferring how these contribute to the mode and tempo of adaptation. Here we report results from a pooled genome re-sequencing study to investigate the consequences of 39 generations of bidirectional selection in White Leghorn chickens on an humoral immune trait: antibody response to sheep red blood cells. We observed wide genome involvement in response to this selection regime, with over 200 candidate sweep regions characterised by spans of high genetic differentiation (FST). These sweep signatures, encompassing almost 20% of the chicken genome (208.8 Mb), are to a large extent the result from bidirectional selection on different haplotypes present in the base population. These extensive genomic changes that accompanied the profound phenotypic response to selection highlight both the extent of standing genetic variation at immune loci available at the onset of selection, as well as how the long-term selection response results from selection on a highly polygenic genetic architecture.', u'The number of data sets in biomedical repositories has grown rapidly over the past decade, providing scientists in fields like genomics and other areas of high-throughput biology with tremendous opportunities to re-use data. Scientists are able to test hypotheses computationally instead of generating their own data, to complement their own data sets with data generated by others, and to conduct meta analyses across many data sets. In order to effectively exploit existing data, it is crucial to understand the content of repositories and to discover data relevant to a question of interest. These are challenging tasks, as most repositories currently only support finding data sets through text-based search of metadata and in some cases also through metadata-based browsing. In order to address these challenges, we have developed SATORI - an ontology-guided visual exploration system - that combines a powerful metadata search with a tree map and a node-link diagram that visualize the repository structure, provide context to retrieved data sets, and serve as an interface to drive semantic querying and browsing of the repository. The requirements for SATORI were derived in semi-structured interviews with biomedical data scientists. We demonstrate its utility by describing several usage scenarios using a stem cell data repository, discoveries we made in the process of developing them, and an evaluation of SATORI with domain experts. We have integrated an open-source, web-based implementation of SATORI in the data repository of the Refinery Platform for biomedical data analysis and visualization (http://refinery-platform.org).', u'In silico modelling of biological pathways is a major endeavour of systems biology. Here we present a methodology for construction of pathway models from the literature and other sources using a biologist-friendly graphical modelling system. The pathway notation scheme, called mEPN, is based on the principles of the process diagrams and Petri nets, and facilitates both the graphical representation of complex systems as well as dynamic simulation of their activity. The protocol is divided into four sections: 1) assembly of the pathway in the yEd software package using the mEPN scheme, 2) conversion of the pathway into a computable format, 3) pathway visualisation and in silico simulation using the BioLayout Express3D software, 4) optimisation of model parameterisation. This method allows reconstruction of any metabolic, signalling and transcriptional pathway as a means of knowledge management, as well as supporting the systems level modelling of their dynamic activity.', u"Gene duplication was proposed by S.Ohno (1) as a key mechanism of a novel gene function evolution. A pair of gene paralogs, NTNG1 and NTNG2, sharing identical gene and protein structures and encoding similar proteins, forms a functional complement subfunctionalising (SF) within cognitive domains and forming cognitive endophenotypes, as detected by Intellectual Quotient (IQ) tests (2). Both NTNG paralogs are associated with autism spectrum disorder (ASD), bipolar disorder (BD) and schizophrenia (SCZ), with unique non-overlapping segregation among the other 15 cognitive disorders (CD), emphasizing an evolutionary gain-dependent link between advanced cognitive functions and concomitant neurocognitive pathologies. Complementary expression and human brain transcriptome composition of the paralogs explains the observed phenomena of their functional complementarity. The lowest identity among NTNGs is found in a middle of encoded by them proteins designated as uknown (Ukd) domain. NTNG1 contains anthropoid-specific constrained regions, and both genes contain non-coding conserved sequences underwent accelerated evolution in human. NTNG paralogs SF perturbates 'structure drives function' concept at protein and gene levels. The paralogs function diversification forms a so-called 'Cognitive Complement (CC)', a product of gene duplication and subsequent cognitive subfunction bifurcation among the NTNG gene duplicates.", u'Failure to detect low-abundance microRNAs (miRNAs), for example, in circulating plasma, may occur for a variety of reasons, including presence of enzyme inhibitors. Recently, we received the unusual but intriguing suggestion that miR-16-5p acts as a co-factor of reverse transcriptases, facilitating more efficient reverse transcription of miRNAs and thus enhanced detection of low-abundance miRNAs. We tested this hypothesis by incubating reverse transcriptase with several concentrations of synthetic miR-16-5p and then performing stem-loop RT-qPCR with serial dilutions of miRNA osa-MIR168a. Our results do not support a role for miR-16 as a co-factor of reverse transcriptase.', u'Information processing in early sensory regions is modulated by a diverse range of inhibitory interneurons. We sought to elucidate the role of olfactory bulb interneurons called granule cells (GCs) in odor processing by imaging the activity of hundreds of these cells simultaneously in mice. Odor responses in GCs were temporally diverse and spatially disperse, with some degree of non-random, modular organization. The overall sparseness of activation of GCs was highly correlated with the extent of glomerular activation by odor stimuli. Increasing concentrations of single odorants led to proportionately larger population activity, but some individual GCs had non-monotonic relation to concentration due to local inhibitory interactions. Individual dendritic segments could sometimes respond independently to odors, revealing their capacity for compartmentalized signaling in vivo. Collectively, the response properties of GCs point to their role in specific and local processing, rather than global operations such as response normalization proposed for other interneurons.', u'Wolbachia-mediated protection against viral infection has been extensively demonstrated in Drosophila and in mosquitoes that are artificially inoculated with D. melanogaster Wolbachia (wMel), but to date no evidence for Wolbachia-mediated antibacterial protection has been demonstrated in Drosophila. Here we show that D. melanogaster carrying wMel shows reduced mortality during enteric - but not systemic - infection with the opportunist pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and that protection is more pronounced in male flies. Wolbachia-mediated protection is associated with increased early expression of the antimicrobial peptide attacinA, followed by increased expression of a ROS detoxification gene (gstD8), and other tissue damage repair genes which together contribute to greater host resistance and disease tolerance. These results highlight that the route of infection is important for symbiont-mediated protection from infection, that Wolbachia can protect hosts by eliciting a combination of resistance and disease tolerance mechanisms, and that these effects are sexually dimorphic.', u'A pair of vertebrate-specific and brain-expressed pre-synaptic genes, NTNG1 and NTNG2, contributes to the Intellectual Quotient (IQ) test scores in a complementary manner. Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of NTNG1 are associated with attenuated verbal comprehension (VC) or processing speed (PS) while NTNG2 SNPs affect working memory (WM) and perceptual organization (PO), forming cognitive endophenotypes in healthy and schizophrenia (SCZ)-affected human subjects. Regions of interest (ROIs), defined as 21 nucleotide (nu) long NTNG gene loci symmetrically embedding the IQ-affecting mutation alleles (VC/PS and WM/PO), underwent dramatic evolutionary changes from mice through primates to hominins, at the accelerated rates. Mutation alleles associated with the higher VC and WM IQ scores are found in the genomes of extinct hominins of Neolithic times, however, lower WM scores associated allele is also detectable in Mesolithic hunters genomes. Protein sequence of NTNG1 is 100% conserved among the primates, archaic and modern extinct hominins while NTNG2 underwent a recent selection sweep encoding a primate-specific S371A/V (~50,000 yrs BC), and a modern human (5,300 yrs BC) T346A substitutions. We show that a 500 mln yrs old genomic duplication of a synapse primordial gene provided a substrate for further synapse elaborations and its ultimate capacitive expansion of what evolved into a vertebrate cognitive superior complexity, intelligence.', u'Many areas of neuroscience are now critically dependent on computational tools to help understand the large volumes of data being created.  Furthermore, computer models are increasingly being used to help predict and understand the function of the nervous system.  Many of these computations are complex and often cannot be concisely reported in the methods section of a scientific article. In a few areas there are widely used software packages for analysis (e.g., SPM, FSL, AFNI, BrainVoyager, FreeSurfer in neuroimaging) or simulation (e.g. NEURON, NEST, Brian). However, we often write new computer programs to solve specific problems in the course of our research. Some of these programs may be relatively small scripts that help analyze all of our data, and these rarely get described in papers. As authors, how best can we maximize the chances that other scientists can reproduce our computations or reuse our methods on their data?  Is our research reproducible? Our article lists practical suggestions to maximise the reproducibility of our work.', u'Purpose: The findings of EGFR mutations and the development of targeted therapies have significantly improved the overall survival of lung cancer patients. Still, the prognosis remains poor, so we need to know more about the genetic alterations in lung cancer. MicroRNAs are dysregulated in lung cancer, and microRNAs can regulate EGFR. So it is very important to predict the candidate microRNAs that target mutated EGFR and to investigate the role of these candidate microRNAs in lung cancer. \nMaterials and methods: In this study, we investigated the difference of microRNAs expression between lung adenocarcinoma cell lines with EGFR exon 19 deletion (H1650 and PC9) and its wild-type (H1299 and A549) using the Phalanx Human Whole Genome Microarray. Then the expression of individual microRNAs was validated by qRT-PCR assays. Moreover, we have detected the microRNAs expression in serum of lung adenocarcinoma patients with EGFR exon 19 deletion and wild-type. \nResults: The expression of 1,732 microRNAs was evaluated, and we found that microRNAs expression was different between these two groups. Hsa-miR-141-3p, hsa-miR-200c-3p, hsa-miR-203, hsa-miR-3182, hsa-miR-934 were up-regulated and hsa-miR-3196 was down-regulated in the EGFR exon 19 deletion group compared with wild-type group. The detection of circulating microRNAs showed that miR-3196 was down-regulated in lung adenocarcinoma patients with EGFR exon 19 deletion compared with wild-type. \nConclusions: It is suggested that microRNAs associate with EGFR exon 19 deletion and miR-3196 can be further explored for potential predictor and targeted biomarker when it is difficult to get the tumors.', u'The importance of epistasis, or statistical interactions between genetic variants, to the development of complex disease in humans has long been controversial. Genome-wide association studies of statistical interactions influencing human traits have recently become computationally feasible and have identified many putative interactions. However, several factors that are difficult to address confound the statistical models used to detect interactions and make it unclear whether statistical interactions are evidence for true molecular epistasis. In this study, we investigate whether there is evidence for epistasis regulating gene expression after accounting for technical, statistical, and biological confounding factors that affect interaction studies. We identified 1,119 (FDR=5%) interactions within cis-regulatory regions that regulate gene expression in human lymphoblastoid cell lines, a tightly controlled, largely genetically determined phenotype.Approximately half of these interactions replicated in an independent dataset (363 of 803 tested). We then performed an exhaustive analysis of both known and novel confounders, including ceiling/floor effects, missing genotype combinations, haplotype effects, single variants tagged through linkage disequilibrium, and population stratification. Every replicated interaction could be explained by at least one of these confounders, and replication in independent datasets did not protect against this issue.  Assuming the confounding factors provide a more parsimonious explanation for each interaction, we find it unlikely that cis-regulatory interactions contribute strongly to human gene expression. As this calls into question the relevance of interactions for other human phenotypes, the analytic framework used here will be useful for protecting future studies of epistasis against confounding.', u'Nanopore sequencing instruments measure the change in electric current caused by DNA transiting through the pore. In experimental and prototype nanopore sequencing devices it has been shown that the electrolytic current signals are sensitive to base modifications, such as 5-methylcytosine. Here we quantify the strength of this effect for the Oxford Nanopore Technologies MinION sequencer. Using synthetically methylated DNA we are able to train a hidden Markov model to distinguish 5-methylcytosine from unmethylated cytosine in DNA. We demonstrate by sequencing natural human DNA, without any special library preparation, that global patterns of methylation can be detected from low-coverage sequencing and that the methylation status of CpG islands can be reliably predicted from single MinION reads. Our trained model and prediction software is open source and freely available to the community under the MIT license.', u'Chemical modifications to DNA regulate cellular state and function. The Oxford Nanopore MinION is a portable single-molecule DNA sequencer that can sequence long fragments of genomic DNA. Here we show that the MinION can be used to detect and map two chemical modifications cytosine, 5-methylcytosine and 5-hydroxymethylcytosine. We present a probabilistic method that enables expansion of the nucleotide alphabet to include bases containing chemical modifications. Our results on synthetic DNA show that individual cytosine base modifications can be classified with accuracy up to 95% in a three-way comparison and 98% in a two-way comparison.', u'Transportation of livestock carries the risk of spreading foreign animal diseases, leading to costly public and private sector expenditures on disease containment and eradication. Livestock movement tracing systems in Europe, Australia and Japan have allowed epidemiologists to model the risks engendered by transportation of live animals and prepare responses designed to protect the livestock industry. Within the US, data on livestock movement is not sufficient for direct parameterization of models for disease spread, but network models that assimilate limited data provide a path forward in model development to inform preparedness for disease outbreaks in the US. Here, we develop a novel data stream, the information publicly reported by US livestock markets on the origin of cattle consigned at live auctions, and demonstrate the potential for estimating a national-scale network model of cattle movement. By aggregating auction reports generated weekly at markets in several states, including some archived reports spanning several years, we obtain a market-oriented sample of edges from the dynamic cattle transportation network in the US. We first propose a sampling framework that allows inference about shipments originating from operations not explicitly sampled and consigned at non-reporting livestock markets in the US, and we report key predictors that are influential in extrapolating beyond our opportunistic sample. As a demonstration of the utility gained from the data and fitted parameters, we model the critical role of market biosecurity procedures in the context of a spatially homogeneous but temporally dynamic representation of cattle movements following an introduction of a foreign animal disease. We conclude that auction market data fills critical gaps in our ability to model intrastate cattle movement for infectious disease dynamics, particularly with an ability to addresses the capacity of markets to amplify or control a livestock disease outbreak.', u'Background: The increasing availability of multi-omics datasets has created an opportunity to understand how different biological pathways and molecules interact to cause disease. However, there is a lack of analysis methods that can integrate and interpret multiple experimental and molecular data types measured over the same set of samples.\nResult: To address this challenge, we introduce moGSA, a multivariate single sample gene-set analysis method. It uses multivariate latent variable decomposition to discover correlated global variance structure across datasets and calculates an integrated gene set enrichment score using the most informative features in each data type. Integrating multiple diverse sources of data reduces the impact of missing or unreliable information in any single data type, and may increase the power to discover subtle changes in gene-sets.  We show that integrative analysis with moGSA outperforms existing single sample GSA methods on simulated data. We apply moGSA to two studies with real data. First, we discover similarities and differences in mRNA, protein and phosphorylation profiles of induced pluripotent and embryonic stem cell lines. Secondly, we report that three molecular subtypes are robustly discovered when copy number variation and mRNA profiling data of 308 bladder cancers from The Cancer Genome Atlas are integrated using moGSA. Our method provides positive or negative gene-set scores (with p-values) of each gene set in each sample. We demonstrate how to assess the influence of each data type or gene to a moGSA gene set score.  With moGSA, there is no requirement to filter data to the intersect of features, therefore, all molecular features on all platforms may be included in the analysis. \nConclusion: moGSA provides a powerful yet simple tool to perform integrated simple sample gene-set analysis. Its latent variable approach is fundamentally different to existing single sample GSA approaches. It is an attractive approach for data integration and is particularly suited to integrated cluster or molecular subtype discovery. It is available in the Bioconductor R package "mogsa".', u'A Statistical Analysis was performed to probe the correlation between the Zika Virus (ZIKV) and its possibility to induce Microcephaly in infants. It was found that without considering a false positive on tests for ZIKV on mothers there seems to be a statistical significance on ZIKV to cause Microcephaly in infants with a probability of q=0.092 \xb115%. It was also shown that without knowing the confidence of the false positive tests of ZIKV it is not possible to statistically assert that this significance is true. It is proposed that to be able to discard the hypothesis of ZIKV not to cause the disease it is necessary to have a 30% of confidence in the ZIKV test.', u'Close relatives can share large segments of their genome identical by descent (IBD) that can be identified in genome-wide polymorphism datasets. There are a range of methods to use these IBD segments to identify relatives and estimate their relationship. These methods have focused on sharing on the autosomes, as they provide a rich source of information about genealogical relationships. We can hope to learn additional information about recent ancestry through shared IBD segments on the X chromosome, but currently lack the theoretical framework to use this information fully. Here, we fill this gap by developing probability distributions for the number and length of X chromosome segments shared IBD between an individual and an ancestor k generations back, as well as between half- and full-cousin relationships. Due to the inheritance pattern of the X and the fact that X homologous recombination only occurs in females (outside of the pseudo-autosomal regions), the number of females along a genealogical lineage is a key quantity for understanding the number and length of the IBD segments shared amongst relatives. When inferring relationships among individuals, the number of female ancestors along a genealogical lineage will often be unknown. Therefore, our IBD segment length and number distributions marginalize over this unknown number of recombinational meioses through a distribution of recombinational meioses we derive. We show how our results can be used to estimate the number of female ancestors between two relatives, giving us more genealogical details than possible with autosomal data alone.', u'To recognize pathogens, B and T lymphocytes are endowed with a wide repertoire of receptors generated stochastically by V(D)J recombination. Measuring and estimating the diversity of these receptors is of great importance for understanding adaptive immunity. In this chapter we review recent modeling approaches for analyzing receptor diversity from high-throughput sequencing data. We first clarify the various existing notions of diversity, with its many competing mathematical indices, and the different biological levels at which it can be evaluated. We then describe inference methods for characterizing the statistical diversity of receptors at different stages of their history: generation, selection and somatic evolution. We discuss the intrinsic difficulty of estimating the diversity of receptors realized in a given individual from incomplete samples. Finally, we emphasize the limitations of diversity defined at the level of receptor sequences, and advocate the more relevant notion of functional diversity relative to the set of recognized antigens.', u'Accurate sex identification of pure line chickens in their early age has significant economic impact in breeding industry. In the recent years, range of Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) based sex determination techniques are routinely used to identify the sex of parent lines in breeding industries, however purified DNA is a prerequisite. Hence this study was aimed to develop a rapid and inexpensive PCR based gender identification method for chicken using whole blood samples and dried blood spots as template for PCR without DNA extraction. In addition, practicability of two W-chromosome specific gene targets in chicken for sex determination also characterised. Successful amplification of sex specific fragments and an internal control was achieved with the range of 0.125\u03bcl and 0.250\u03bcl volume of whole blood on filter paper (~1 mm) prepared from chicken and dried blood spot. This technique does not require DNA extraction, freeze/thawing of blood samples, pre-treatment with any reagents, dilution of whole blood or dried blood spots on filter paper. It can be carried out with commercially available Taq polymerase enzymes with increased concentration of MgCl2  (3 mM) and 0.5% of DMSO without optimisation of PCR buffers. In conclusion, as compared to the existing PCR based sex identification techniques, the present approach is relatively economic, time saving, requires minimal steps and eliminates the need for DNA extraction.', u"Individuals with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) tend to show distinctive, atypical acoustic patterns of speech. These behaviours affect social interactions and social development and could represent a non-invasive biomarker for ASD. We systematically reviewed the literature quantifying acoustic patterns in ASD. Search terms were: (prosody OR intonation OR inflection OR intensity OR pitch OR fundamental frequency OR speech rate OR voice quality OR acoustic) AND (autis* OR Asperger). Results were filtered to include only: empirical studies quantifying acoustic features of vocal production in ASD, with a sample size > 2, and the inclusion of a neurotypical comparison group and/or correlations between acoustic measures and severity of clinical features. We identified 32 articles, including 27 univariate studies and 15 multivariate machine-learning studies. We performed meta-analyses of the univariate studies, identifying significant differences in mean pitch and pitch range between individuals with ASD and controls (Cohen's d of about 0.4 and discriminatory accuracy of about 61%). The multivariate studies reported higher accuracies than the univariate studies (63-96%). However, the methods used and the acoustic features investigated were too diverse for performing meta-analysis. We conclude that multivariate studies of acoustic patterns are a promising but yet unsystematic avenue for establishing ASD biomarkers. We outline three recommendations for future studies: open data, open methods, and theory-driven research.", u'The recent explosion in the amount of available genome sequencing data imposes high computational demands on the tools designed to analyze it. Low-cost cloud computing has the potential to alleviate this burden. However, moving personal genome data analysis to the cloud raises serious privacy concerns. Read alignment is a critical and computationally intensive first step of most genomic data analysis pipelines. While significant effort has been dedicated to optimize the sensitivity and runtime efficiency of this step, few approaches have addressed outsourcing this computation securely to an untrusted party. The few secure solutions that have been proposed either do not scale to whole genome sequencing datasets or are not competitive with the state of the art in read mapping. In this paper, we present BALAUR, a privacy-preserving read mapping algorithm based on locality sensitive hashing and secure kmer voting. BALAUR securely outsources a significant portion of the computation to the public cloud by formulating the alignment task as a voting scheme between encrypted read and reference kmers. Our approach can easily handle typical genome-scale datasets and is highly competitive with non-cryptographic state-of-the-art read aligners in both accuracy and runtime performance on simulated and real read data. Moreover, our approach is significantly faster than state-of-the-art read aligners in long read mapping.', u'Studying the molecular consequences of rare genetic variants has the potential of identifying novel and hereto uncharacterized pathways causally contributing to phenotypic variation. Here we characterize the functional consequences of a rare coding variant of TAO3, previously reported to significantly contribute to sporulation efficiency variation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. During mitosis TAO3 interacts with CBK1, a conserved NDR kinase and a component of RAM network. The RAM network genes are involved in regulation cell separation and polarization. We demonstrate that the role of the rare allele TAO3(4477C) in meiosis is distinct from its role in mitosis by being independent of ACE2, which is a RAM network target gene. By quantitatively measuring cell morphological dynamics and conditionally expressing TAO3(4477C) allele during sporulation, we show that TAO3 has an early role in meiosis. This early role of TAO3 coincides with entry of cells into meiotic division. Time-resolved transcriptome analyses during early sporulation phase identified regulators of carbon and lipid metabolic pathways as candidate mediators. We experimentally show that during sporulation the TAO3 allele genetically interacts with ERT1 and PIP2, the regulators of tricarboxylic acid cycle and gluconeogenic enzymes, respectively. We thus uncover meiotic functions of TAO3, a mitotic gene and propose ERT1 and PIP2 as novel regulators of sporulation efficiency. Our results demonstrate that study of causal effects of genetic variation on the underlying molecular network has the potential to provide more extensive comprehension of the pathways driving a complex trait. This can help identify prospective personalized targets for intervention in complex diseases.', u'Abstract\nBackground: Tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) has rapidly become a valuable model as a result of the availability of a high quality reference genome, extensive genetic resources, and efficient gene transfer methodology.  A high-throughput method to obtain transgenic lines sooner than standard methods has the potential to greatly advance gene function studies.\n\nResults: The goal of this study was to optimize our current gene transfer (transformation) method for tomato by investigating medium components that would result in a decreased time for recovery of transgenic lines.  The methodology reported here is based on infection of 6-day-old cotyledon explants from Solanum lycopersicum cultivar M82 in vitro-grown seedlings with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LBA4404 containing the binary vector pBI121.  This vector contains the \u03b2-glucuronidase reporter gene and the neomycin phosphotransferase II selectable marker gene that confers resistance to kanamycin.  Modification of our standard plant regeneration medium by the addition of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) at concentrations of either 0.05 mg/l or 0.1 mg/l greatly decreased the time for recovery of transgenic lines by 6 weeks as compared to our standard medium that contains zeatin alone.  Moreover, addition of 1 mg/l IAA to the root induction medium resulted in faster root development.  We observed 50% and 54% transformation efficiency when plant regeneration medium containing 0.05 mg/l and 0.1 mg/l IAA, respectively, was used for transformation experiments.  Transgenic lines recovered with the optimized method were similar in development to our standard method.  No negative effects were observed as a result of the addition of IAA to the medium.\n\nConclusions: The results showed that addition of IAA at concentrations of either 0.05 or 0.1 mg/l to the plant regeneration medium reduced the total time for recovery of stable transgenic lines by 6 weeks.  The ability to recover transgenic lines in a shorter time results in higher throughput for the introduction of gene constructs and has the potential to decrease the time needed to complete investigations of gene function.  The ability to recover transgenic lines for each gene construct in a shorter time saves labor and resource expenses because culture maintenance is also reduced.', u'Complex biological systems are often represented by network graphs. However, their structural features are not adequately captured by existing computational graph models, perhaps because the datasets used to assemble them are incomplete and contain elements that lack shared functions. Here, we analyze three large, near-complete networks that produce specific cellular or behavioral outputs: a molecular yeast mitochondrial regulatory protein network, and two anatomical networks of very different scale, the mouse brain mesoscale connectivity network, and the C. elegans neuronal network. Surprisingly, these networks share similar characteristics. All consist of large communities composed of modules with general functions, and topologically distinct subnetworks spanning modular boundaries responsible for their more specific phenotypical outputs. We created a new model, SBM-PS, which generates networks by combining communities, followed by adjustment of connections by a path selection mechanism. This model captures fundamental architectural features that are common to the three networks.', u'Dopamine has long been thought to play a role in risky decision-making, with higher tonic levels of dopamine associated with more risk seeking behavior. In this work, we aimed to shed more light on this relationship using spontaneous blink rate as an indirect measure of dopamine. In particular we used video recording to measure blink rate and a decision-making survey to measure risk taking in 45 participants.  Consistent with previous work linking dopamine to risky decisions, we found a strong positive correlation between blink rate and the number of risky choices a participant made.  This correlation was not dependent on age or gender and was identical for both gain and loss framing. This work suggests that dopamine plays a crucial and quite general role in determining risk attitude across the population and validates this simple method of probing dopamine for decision-making research.', u'In nature, the intensity of mate choice (ie choosiness) is highly variable within and between sexes. Despite growing empirical evidence showing male and/or mutual mate choice, theoretical investigations of the joint evolution of female and male choosiness are few. In addition, previous approaches have often assumed an absence of trade-off between the direct benefits per mating and the lower mating rate that results from being choosy. Here, we model the joint evolution of female and male choosiness when it is solely ruled by this fundamental trade-off. We show that this trade-off can generate a diversity of stable combinations of choosiness. Mutual mate choice can only evolve if both females and males exhibit long latency after mating. Further, we show that an increase in choosiness in one sex does not necessarily prevent the evolution of mutual mate choice: the outcome depends on details of the life history,  the decision rule for mate choice, and how the fecundity of a pair is shaped by the quality of both individuals. Lastly, we discuss the power of the sensitivity of the relative searching time (ie of the proportion of lifetime spent searching for mates) as a predictor of the joint evolution of choosiness.', u'Background: Low melatonin levels are a frequent finding in autism spectrum disorder (ASD) patients. Melatonin is also important for normal neurodevelopment and embryonic growth. As a free radical scavenger and antioxidant melatonin is highly effective in protecting DNA from oxidative damage. Melatonin deficiency, possibly due to low CYP1A2 activity, could be a major factor, and well a common heritable variation. ASD is already present at birth. As the fetus does not produce melatonin, low maternal melatonin levels should be involved. \nMethods: We measured 6-sulfatoxymelatonin in urine of mothers of a child with ASD that attended our sleep clinic for people with an intellectual disability (ID), and asked for parental coffee consumption habits, as these are known to be related to CYP1A2 activity. \nResults: 6-Sulfatoxymelatonin levels were significantly lower in mothers than in controls (p = 0.005), as well as evening coffee consumption (p = 0.034). In mothers with a second child with ASD and/or ID, 6-sulfatoxymelatonin levels were lower compared to mothers with one child with ASD (p = 0.084),\nConclusions: Low parental melatonin levels, likely caused by low CYP1A2 activity, seem to be a major contributor to ASD and possibly ID etiology.', u'Root-knot nematodes (genus Meloidogyne) show an intriguing diversity of reproductive modes ranging from obligatory sexual to fully asexual reproduction. Intriguingly, the most damaging species to the world agriculture are those that reproduce without meiosis and without sex. To understand this parasitic success despite the absence of sex and genetic exchanges, we have sequenced and assembled the genomes of 3 obligatory ameiotic asexual Meloidogyne species and have compared them to those of meiotic relatives with facultative or obligatory asexual reproduction. Our comparative genomic analysis shows that obligatory asexual root-knot nematodes have a higher abundance of transposable elements (TE) compared to the facultative sexual and contain duplicated regions with a high within-species average nucleotide divergence of 8%. Phylogenomic analysis of the genes present in these duplicated regions suggests that they originated from multiple hybridization events. The average nucleotide divergence in the coding portions between duplicated regions is ~5-6 % and we detected diversifying selection between the corresponding gene copies. Genes under diversifying selection covered a wide spectrum of predicted functional categories which suggests a high impact of the genome structure at the functional level. Contrasting with high within-species nuclear genome divergence, mitochondrial genome divergence between the three ameiotic asexuals was very low, suggesting that these putative hybrids share a recent common maternal donor lineage. The intriguing parasitic success of mitotic root-knot nematodes in the absence of sex may be partly explained by TE-rich composite genomes resulting from multiple allo-polyploidization events and promoting plasticity in the absence of sex.', u'When estimating expression of a transcript or part of a transcript using RNA-Seq data, it is commonly assumed that reads are generated uniformly from positions within the transcript. While this assumption is acceptable for long transcript sequences, it frequently leads to large errors for short sequences, e.g., less than 100 bp.\nAnalysis of short sequences, such as splice junctions adjacent to alternatively spliced axons and microRNAs, is increasingly important\nand necessitates addressing errors in short-sequence expression estimation. Indeed, when we examined RNA-Seq data from diverse studies, we found that large errors are introduced by variations RNA-Seq coverage due to sequence content, experimental conditions and sample preparation.\nWe developed a technique that we call the positional bootstrap, which quantifies the level of uncertainty in expression induced by non-uniform coverage. Unlike methods that attempt to correct for biases in coverage, but do so by making strong assumptions about the form of those biases, the positional bootstrap can quantify the noise induced by all types of bias, including unknown ones. Results obtained using independently generated RNA-Seq datasets show that the positional bootstrap increases the accuracy of estimates of alternative splicing levels, tissue-differential alternative splicing and tissue differential\nexpression, by a factor of up to 10.\nAn efficient Python implementation of the algorithm is freely available from github.com/PSI-Lab/BENTO-Seq.', u"The use of 'selfish' gene drive systems to suppress or even extinguish populations has been proposed on theoretical grounds for almost half a century.  Creating  these genes has recently become possible with CRISPR technology.  One seemingly feasible approach, originally proposed by Burt, is to create a homing endonuclease gene (HEG) that inserts into an essential gene, enabling heterozygote viability but causing homozygote lethality.  With 100\\% segregation distortion in gametes, such genes can cause profound population suppression if resistance does not evolve.  Here, population genetic models  are used to consider the evolution of inbreeding (selfing) as a possible response to a recessively lethal HEG with complete segregation distortion.  Numerical results indicate a rich set of outcomes, but selfing often evolves in response to the HEG.  Whether selfing does indeed evolve and its effect in restoring population fitness depends heavily on the magnitude of inbreeding depression.  Overall, these results point toward an underappreciated evolutionary response to block the harmful effects of a selfish gene.  They raise the possibility that extreme population suppression may be more difficult to achieve than currently imagined.", u'The vast majority of clinically-approved protein kinase inhibitors target the ATP binding pocket directly. Consequently, many inhibitors have broad selectivity profiles and most have significant off-target effects. Allosteric inhibitors are generally more selective, but are difficult to identify because allosteric binding sites are often unknown or poorly characterized, and there is no clearly preferred approach to generating hit matter. Aurora-A is activated through binding of TPX2 to an allosteric site on the kinase catalytic domain, and this knowledge could be exploited to generate an inhibitor. However, it is currently unclear how to design such a compound because a small molecule or peptide mimetic of TPX2 would be expected to activate, not inhibit the kinase. Here, we generated an allosteric inhibitor of Aurora-A kinase based on a synthetic, VNAR single domain nanobody scaffold, IgNARV-D01. Biochemical studies and a crystal structure of the Aurora-A/IgNARV-D01 complex show that the nanobody overlaps with the TPX2 binding site. In contrast with the binding of TPX2, which stabilizes an active conformation of the kinase, binding of the nanobody stabilizes an inactive conformation, in which the \u03b1C-helix is distorted, the canonical Lys-Glu salt bridge is broken, and the regulatory (R-) spine is disrupted by an additional hydrophobic side chain from the activation loop.  These studies illustrate how nanobodies can be used to characterize the regulatory mechanisms of kinases and provide a rational basis for structure-guided design of allosteric Aurora-A kinase inhibitors.', u'A major challenge of data-driven biomedical research lies in the collection and representation of data provenance information to ensure reproducibility of findings. In order to communicate and reproduce multi-step analysis workflows executed on datasets that contain data for dozens or hundreds of samples, it is crucial to be able to visualize the provenance graph at different levels of aggregation. Most existing approaches are based on node-link diagrams, which do not scale to the complexity of typical data provenance graphs. In our proposed approach we reduce the complexity of the graph using hierarchical and motif-based aggregation. Based on user action and graph attributes a modular degree-of-interest (DoI) function is applied to expand parts of the graph that are relevant to the user. This interest-driven adaptive provenance visualization approach allows users to review and communicate complex multi-step analyses, which can be based on hundreds of files that are processed by numerous workflows. We integrate our approach into an analysis platform that captures extensive data provenance information and demonstrate its effectiveness by means of a biomedical usage scenario.', u'Capture Hi-C (CHi-C) is a state-of-the art method for profiling chromosomal interactions involving targeted regions of interest (such as gene promoters) globally and at high resolution. Signal detection in CHi-C data involves a number of statistical challenges that are not observed when using other Hi-C-like techniques. We present a background model, and algorithms for normalisation and multiple testing that are specifically adapted to CHi-C experiments, in which many spatially dispersed regions are captured, such as in Promoter CHi-C. We implement these procedures in CHiCAGO (http://regulatorygenomicsgroup.org/chicago), an open-source package for robust interaction detection in CHi-C. We validate CHiCAGO by showing that promoter-interacting regions detected with this method are enriched for regulatory features and disease-associated SNPs.', u'We introduce msVolcano, a web application, for the visualization of label-free mass spectrometric data. It is optimized for the output of the MaxQuant data analysis pipeline of interactomics experiments and generates volcano plots with lists of interacting proteins. The user can optimize the cutoff values to find meaningful significant interactors for the tagged protein of interest. Optionally, stoichiometries of interacting proteins can be calculated. Several customization options are provided to the user for flexibility and publication-quality outputs can also be downloaded (tabular and graphical).', u'While genetic diversity can be quantified accurately from high coverage sequencing, it is often desirable to obtain such estimates from low coverage data, either to save costs or because of low DNA quality as observed for ancient samples. Here we introduce a method to accurately infer heterozygosity probabilistically from very low coverage sequences of a single individual. The method relaxes the infinite sites assumption of previous methods, does not require a reference sequence and takes into account both variable sequencing errors and potential post-mortem damage. It is thus also applicable to non-model organisms and ancient genomes. Since error rates as reported by sequencing machines are generally distorted and require recalibration, we also introduce a method to infer accurately recalibration parameter in the presence of post-mortem damage. This method does also not require knowledge about the underlying genome sequence, but instead works from haploid data (e.g. from the X-chromosome from mammalian males) and integrates over the unknown genotypes. Using extensive simulations we show that a few Mb of haploid data is sufficient for accurate recalibration even at average coverages as low as 1-3x. At similar coverages, out method also produces very accurate estimates of heterozygosity down to $10^{-4}$ within windows of about 1Mb. We further illustrate the usefulness of our approach by inferring genome-wide patterns of diversity for several ancient human samples and found that 3,000-5,000 samples showed diversity patterns comparable to modern humans. In contrast, two European hunter-gatherer samples exhibited not only considerably lower levels of diversity than modern samples, but also highly distinct distributions of diversity along their genomes. Interestingly, these distributions were also very differently between the two samples, supporting earlier conclusions of a highly diverse and structured population in Europe prior to the arrival of farming.', u'Illusions provide a great opportunity to study how perception is affected by both the observer\'s expectations and the way sensory information is represented. Recently, Jazayeri and Movshon reported a new and interesting perceptual illusion, demonstrating that the perceived motion direction of a dynamic random dot stimulus is systematically biased when preceded by a motion discrimination judgment. The authors hypothesized that these biases emerge because the brain predominantly relies on those neurons that are most informative for solving the discrimination task, but then is using the same neural weighting profile for generating the percept. In other words, they argue that these biases are "mistakes" of the brain, resulting from using inappropriate neural read-out weights. While we were able to replicate the illusion for a different visual stimulus (orientation), our new psychophysical data suggest that the above interpretation is likely incorrect: Biases are not caused by a read-out profile optimized for solving the discrimination task but rather by the specific choices subjects make in the discrimination task on any given trial. We formulate this idea as a conditioned Bayesian observer model and show that it can explain the new as well as the original psychophysical data. In this framework, the biases are not caused by mistake but rather by the brain\'s attempt to remain \'self-consistent\' in its inference process. Our model establishes a direct connection between the current perceptual illusion and the well-known phenomena of cognitive consistency and dissonance.', u'Iron is an essential metal cofactor for enzymes involved in many cellular functions such as energy generation and cell proliferation. However, excessive iron concentration leads to increased oxidative stress and toxicity. As such, iron homeostasis is strictly controlled by two RNA binding proteins known as Iron Regulatory Proteins (IRPs) that regulate at post-transcriptional level the expression of iron management genes. Despite this fine regulation, impairment of iron homeostasis occurs during aging:  iron progressively accumulates in several organs and in turn, it exacerbates cellular vulnerability and tissue decay. Moreover, excessive iron accumulation within the CNS is observed in many neurodegenerative diseases. We investigated the age-dependent changes of iron homeostasis using the short lived fish Nothobranchius furzeri. Here, we show that i) both iron content and expression of microRNA family miR-29 increase during adult life and aging in the N. furzeri brain; ii) iron up-regulates miR-29 expression in fish brain and murine neurons, while in turn miR-29 targets the 3-UTR of  IREB2  mRNA, reducing iron intake; iii) Transgenic fish with knock-down of miR-29 show significant adult-onset up-regulation of IRP2 and its target TFR1 in neurons and display enhanced age-dependent accumulation of brain iron; iv) miR-29 triggers a global gene expression response that partially overlaps with that induced by aging. \nOur studies indicate that miR-29 modulates intracellular iron homeostasis and is up-regulated as an adaptive response to limit excessive iron accumulation and prevent early-onset aging processes.', u'Argonaute2 (Ago2) is a rapidly evolving nuclease in the Drosophila melanogaster RNAi pathway that targets viruses and transposable elements in somatic tissues. Here we reconstruct the history of Ago2 duplications across the Drosophila obscura group, and use patterns of gene expression to infer new functional specialization. We show that some duplications are old, shared by the entire species group, and that losses may be common, including previously undetected losses in the lineage leading to D. pseudoobscura. We find that while the original (syntenic) gene copy has generally retained the ancestral ubiquitous expression pattern, most of the novel Ago2 paralogues have independently specialised to testis-specific expression. Using population genetic analyses, we show that most testis-specific paralogues have significantly lower genetic diversity than the genome-wide average. This suggests recent positive selection in three different species, and model-based analyses provide strong evidence of recent hard selective sweeps in or near four of the six D. pseudoobscura Ago2 paralogues. We speculate that the repeated evolution of testis-specificity in obscura group Ago2 genes, combined with their dynamic turnover and strong signatures of adaptive evolution, may be associated with highly derived roles in the suppression of transposable elements or meiotic drive. Our study highlights the lability of RNAi pathways, even within well-studied groups such as Drosophila, and suggests that strong selection may act quickly after duplication in RNAi pathways, potentially giving rise to new and unknown RNAi functions in non-model species.', u"Several statistical techniques have been recently developed for the inference of cancer progression models from the increasingly available NGS cross-sectional mutational profiles. A particular algorithm, CAPRI, was proven to be the most efficient with respect to sample size and level of noise in the data. The algorithm combines structural constraints based on Suppes' theory of probabilistic causation and maximum likelihood fit with regularization, and defines constrained Bayesian networks, named Suppes-Bayes Causal Networks (SBCNs), which account for the selective advantage relations among genomic events. In general, SBCNs are effective in modeling any phenomenon driven by cumulative dynamics, as long as the modeled events are persistent. Here we discuss on the effectiveness of the SBCN theoretical framework and we investigate the influence of: (i) the priors based on Suppes' theory and (ii) different maximum likelihood regularization parameters on the inference performance estimated on large synthetically generated datasets.", u"Here we present an update of the studyforrest (http://studyforrest.org) dataset that complements the previously released functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data for natural language processing with a new two-hour 3 Tesla fMRI acquisition while 15 of the original participants were shown an audio-visual version of the stimulus motion picture. We demonstrate with two validation analyses that these new data support modeling specific properties of the complex natural stimulus, as well as a substantial within-subject BOLD response congruency in brain areas related to the processing of auditory inputs, speech, and narrative when compared to the existing fMRI data for audio-only stimulation. In addition, we provide participants' eye gaze location as recorded simultaneously with fMRI, and an additional sample of 15 control participants whose eye gaze trajectories for the entire movie were recorded in a lab setting -- to enable studies on attentional processes and comparative investigations on the potential impact of the stimulation setting on these processes.", u"The studyforrest (http://studyforrest.org) dataset is likely the largest neuroimaging dataset on natural language and story processing publicly available today. In this article, along with a companion publication, we present an update of this dataset that extends its scope to vision and multi-sensory research. 15 participants of the original cohort volunteered for a series of additional studies: a clinical examination of visual function, a standard retinotopic mapping procedure, and a localization of higher visual areas -- such as the fusiform face area. The combination of this update, the previous data releases for the dataset, and the companion publication, which includes neuroimaging and eye tracking data from natural stimulation with a motion picture, form an extremely versatile and comprehensive resource for brain imaging research -- with almost six hours of functional neuroimaging data across five different stimulation paradigms for each participant. Furthermore, we describe employed paradigms and present results that document the quality of the data for the purpose of characterising major properties of participants' visual processing stream.", u'Cell sorting or gating homogenous subpopulations from single-cell data enables cell-type specific characterization, such as cell-type genomic profiling as well as the study of tumor progression. This highlight summarizes recently developed automated gating algorithms that are optimized for both population identification and sorting homogeneous single cells in heterogeneous single-cell data. Data-driven gating strategies identify and/or sort homogeneous subpopulations from a heterogeneous population without relying on expert knowledge thereby removing human bias and variability. We further describe an optimized cell sorting strategy called CCAST based on Clustering, Classification and Sorting Trees which identifies the relevant gating markers, gating hierarchy and partitions that define underlying cell subpopulations. CCAST identifies more homogeneous subpopulations in several applications compared to prior sorting strategies and reveals simultaneous intracellular signaling across different lineage subtypes under different experimental conditions.', u'Numerous studies have shown that microRNAs are deregulated in various types of cancer. Although miR\u2011218 aberrant expression has been documented in various cancers, the epigenetic regulation of miR-218 is unclear in breast cancer. Our results demonstrate that treatment of breast cancer cells with demethylating agent, 5-azacytidine, resulted in increased expression of miR-218 and its host gene slit-2, suggesting that they are epigenetically regulated in breast cancer. The ectopic expression of miR\u2011218 sensitize breast cancer cell to doxorubicin treatment. The results suggest that miR-218 is epigenetically regulated along with its host gene and function as a tumor suppressor in breast cancer. miR-218 and SLIT2 may have potential therapeutic value in combination with demethylating drug in breast cancer patients.\n(Key words: microRNA, Breast cancer, Epigenetic regulation, Methylation)', u'Escherichia coli cells deleted for the cyclic AMP (cAMP) receptor protein (Crp) gene (\u0394crp) cannot utilize glycerol because cAMP-Crp is a required positive activator of glycerol utilization operon glpFK.  We have previously shown that a transposon, Insertion Sequence 5 (IS5), can reversibly insert into the upstream regulatory region of the operon so as to activate glpFK and enable glycerol utilization.  GlpR, which represses glpFK transcription, binds to the glpFK upstream region near the site of IS5 insertion, and prevents insertion.  We here show that the cAMP-Crp complex, which also binds to the glpFK upstream regulatory region, also inhibits IS5 hopping into the activating site. This finding allowed us to identify conditions under which wild type cells can acquire glpFK-activating IS5 insertions. Maximal rates of IS5 insertion into the activating site require the presence of glycerol as well as a non-metabolizable sugar analogue that lowers cytoplasmic cAMP concentrations. Under these conditions, IS5 insertional mutants accumulate and outcompete the wild type cells. Because of the widespread distribution of glucose analogues in nature, this mechanism of gene activation could have evolved by natural selection.', u'Null models in ecology have been developed that, by maintaining some aspects of observed communities and repeatedly randomizing others, allow researchers to test for the action of community assembly processes like habitat filtering and competitive exclusion. Such processes are often detected using phylogenetic community structure metrics. When biologically significant elements, such as the number of species per assemblage, break down during randomizations, it can lead to high error rates. Realistic dispersal probabilities are often neglected during randomization, and existing models make the oftentimes empirically unreasonable assumption that all species are equally probable of dispersing to a given site. When this assumption is unwarranted, null models need to incorporate dispersal probabilities. I do so here, and present a dispersal null model (DNM) that strictly maintains species richness, and approximately maintains species occurrence frequencies and total abundance. I tested its statistical performance when used with a wide breadth of phylogenetic community structure metrics across 3,000 simulated communities assembled according to neutral, habitat filtering, and competitive exclusion processes. The DNM performed well, exhibiting low error rates (both type I and II). I also implemented it in a re-analysis of a large empirical dataset, an abundance matrix of 696 sites and 75 species of Australian Meliphagidae. Although the overall signal from that study remained unchanged, it showed that statistically significant phylogenetic clustering could have been an artifact of dispersal limitations.', u'In the present work we study the relationship between population allocation and the combined effects of urban size and energy consumption, for two given areas and through a major part of the twentieth century.  Along these lines a general application model is laid down which relates city-growth rates to initial inhabitants  and to exosomatic energy increment, the deviations from it showing order in space and time, as shown in a series of maps which hint at unaccounted socioeconomic factors. The study of the maps by means of spectral analysis allows finding patterns which reinforce over time, in such a manner that spatial frequencies can be determined whose weight increases up so granting surface evolution estimation.', u'In the last few months, an overwhelming number of people have been exposed to the Zika virus (ZIKV) all over South and Central America. Healthcare professionals noticed an alarming surge of fetuses diagnosed with microcephaly and several other brain malformations from mothers who showed signs of the disease during pregnancy1-3. There was also an increase in the number of reported cases of Guillain-Barr\xe9 syndrome that are now associated with the Zika epidemics4. Sequencing and phylogenetic data from our group showed that isolates from Brazilian patients are 97-100% identical to the virus isolated from the outbreak in the French Polynesia, while showing 87-90% identity to African isolates5. To date, there is no report of either cases of congenital abnormalities or Guillain-Barr\xe9 syndrome in African countries, pointing to the possibility that differences in the genome sequences of these viral strains may be associated to different clinical outcomes. In this work we showed, in vitro, that the Brazilian virus has a greater impact on murine neuronal progenitors and neurons than the African strain MR766. We found that the Brazilian isolate more pronouncedly inhibits neurite extension from neurospheres, alters their differentiation potential and causes neurons to have less and shorter processes.  Comparing both lineages using a panel of inflammatory cytokines, we showed, with human neuroblastoma cells, that ZIKV induces the production of several inflammatory and chemotactic cytokines and once again, the Brazilian isolate had a more significant impact in immune activation response.  Although much more needs to be studied regarding the association of ZIKV infection and brain damage during development, our study sheds some light into the differences between African and American lineages and the mechanisms by which the virus may be affecting neurogenesis.', u'Background\nIn silico bacterial, viral, and human truth datasets were generated to evaluate available metagenomics algorithms.  Sequenced datasets include background organisms, creating ambiguity in the true source organism for each read.  Bacterial and viral datasets were created with even and staggered coverage to evaluate organism identification, read mapping, and gene identification capabilities of available algorithms.  These truth datasets are provided as a resource for the development and refinement of metagenomic algorithms.  Algorithm performance on these truth datasets can inform decision makers on strengths and weaknesses of available algorithms and how the results may be best leveraged for bacterial and viral organism identification and characterization.\n\nSource organisms were selected to mirror communities described in the Human Microbiome Project as well as the emerging pathogens listed by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. The six in silico datasets were used to evaluate the performance of six leading metagenomics algorithms: MetaScope, Kraken, LMAT, MetaPhlAn, MetaCV, and MetaPhyler.\n\nResults\nAlgorithms were evaluated on runtime, true positive organisms identified to the genus and species levels, false positive organisms identified to genus and species level, read mapping, relative abundance estimation, and gene calling.  No algorithm out performed the others in all categories, and the algorithm or algorithms of choice strongly depends on analysis goals.  MetaPhlAn excels for bacteria and LMAT for viruses.  The algorithms were ranked by overall performance using a normalized weighted sum of the above metrics, and MetaScope emerged as the overall winner, followed by Kraken and LMAT.\n\nConclusions\nSimulated FASTQ datasets with well-characterized truth data about microbial community composition reveal numerous insights about the relative strengths and weaknesses of the metagenomics algorithms evaluated. The simulated datasets are available to download from the Sequence Read Archive (SRP062063).', u'The impact of evolutionary processes in cancer and its implications for  drug response, biomarker validation and clinical outcome requires careful consideration of the evolving mutational landscape of the cancer. Genome sequencing allows us to identify mutations but the prevalence of those mutations in heterogeneous tumours must be inferred. We describe a method that we call OncoPhase to compute the prevalence of somatic point mutations from genome sequencing analysis of heterogeneous tumours that combines information from nearby phased germline variants. We show using simulations that the use of phased germline information can give improved prevalence estimates over the use of somatic variants only.', u"Image-based high-throughput phenotyping technologies have been rapidly developed in plant science recently and they provide a great potential to gain more valuable information than traditionally destructive methods. Predicting plant biomass is regarded as a key purpose for plant breeders and ecologist. However, it is a great challenge to find a suitable model to predict plant biomass in the context of high-throughput phenotyping. In the present study, we constructed several models to examine the quantitative relationship between image-based features and plant biomass accumulation. Our methodology has been applied to three consecutive barley experiments with control and stress treatments. The results proved that plant biomass can be accurately predicted from image-based parameters using a random forest model. The high prediction accuracy based on this model, in particular the cross-experiment performance, is promising to relieve the phenotyping bottleneck in biomass measurement in breeding applications. The relative contribution of individual features for predicting biomass was further quantified, revealing new insights into the phenotypic determinants of plant biomass outcome. What's more, the methods could also be used to determine the most important image-based features related to plant biomass accumulation, which would be promising for subsequent genetic mapping to uncover the genetic basis of biomass.", u'Mining of genomic data is a valuable tool for the discovery of orthologous genes of close or distant relatives of humans and mice. Here we describe a standardized search method for the MHC class I-like molecules CD1 and MR1 and apply it to 18 mammalian genomes.', u'Rare cell populations play a pivotal role in the initiation and progression of diseases like cancer. However, the identification of such subpopulations remains a difficult task. This work describes CellCnn, a representation learning approach to detect rare cell subsets associated with disease using high dimensional single cell measurements. Using CellCnn, we identify paracrine signaling and AIDS onset associated cell subsets in peripheral blood, and minimal residual disease associated populations in leukemia with frequencies as low as 0.005%.', u'Studies of the genetics of gene expression have served as a key tool for linking genetic variants to phenotypes. Large-scale eQTL mapping studies have identified a large number of local eQTLs, but the molecular mechanism of how genetic variants regulate expression is still unclear, particularly for distal eQTLs, which these studies are not well-powered to detect. In this study, we use a heritability partitioning approach to dissect the functional components of gene regulation.  We make use of an existing method, stratified LD score regression, that leverages all variants (not just those that pass stringent significance thresholds) to partition heritability across functional categories, and we extend this method to partition local and distal gene expression heritability in 15 human tissues.  The top enriched functional categories in local regulation of peripheral blood gene expression included super enhancers (5.18x), coding regions (3.73x), conserved regions (2.33x) and four histone marks (p<3x10-7 for all enrichments); local enrichments were similar across the 15 tissues. We also observed substantial enrichments for distal regulation of peripheral blood gene expression: super enhancers (1.91x), coding regions (4.47x), conserved regions (4.51x) and two histone marks (p<3x10-7 for all enrichments).  Analyses of the genetic correlation of gene expression across tissues showed that local gene expression regulation is largely shared across tissues, but distal gene expression regulation is highly tissue-specific.  Our results elucidate the functional components of the genetic architecture of local and distal gene expression regulation.', u'Crustaceans are a morphologically, physiologically and ecologically highly diverse animal group and correspondingly diverse are their reproductive characteristics. They have evolved structural specialities with respect to penis construction, sperm form, sperm storage, fertilization and brood care. Unique in the animal kingdom are safety lines that safeguard hatching and first molting. Further curiosities are dwarf males in parasitic and sessile taxa and bacteria-induced gigantism and infectious feminization in crustacean hosts. Record-breaking features in animals are relative penis length, clutch size, sperm size, chromosome number, viability of resting eggs, and fossil ages of penis, sperm and brooded embryos. These reproductive peculiarities are reviewed and their implication for basic and applied biology is discussed, including the early evolution and diversification of brood care in arthropods, sperm competition and assurance of paternity, posthumous paternity and sustainable male-based fishery, and ecotype changes by man-made pollution.', u'Forward Wright-Fisher simulations are powerful in their ability to model complex demography and selection scenarios, but suffer from slow execution on the CPU, thus limiting their usefulness. The single-locus Wright-Fisher forward algorithm is, however, exceedingly parallelizable, with many steps which are so-called embarrassingly parallel, consisting of a vast number of individual computations that are all independent of each other and thus capable of being performed concurrently. The rise of modern Graphics Processing Units (GPUs) and programming languages designed to leverage the inherent parallel nature of these processors have allowed researchers to dramatically speed up many programs that have such high arithmetic intensity and intrinsic concurrency. The presented GPU Optimized Wright-Fisher simulation, or GO Fish for short, can be used to simulate arbitrary selection and demographic scenarios while running over 340-fold faster than its serial counterpart on the CPU. Even modest GPU hardware can achieve an impressive speedup of well over two orders of magnitude. With simulations so accelerated, one can not only do quick parametric bootstrapping of previously estimated parameters, but also use simulated results to calculate the likelihoods and summary statistics of demographic and selection models against real polymorphism data - all without restricting the demographic and selection scenarios that can be modeled or requiring approximations to the single-locus forward algorithm for efficiency. Further, as many of the parallel programming techniques used in this simulation can be applied to other computationally intensive algorithms important in population genetics, GO Fish serves as an exciting template for future research into accelerating computation in evolution. Code available at: https://github.com/DL42/GOFish', u'Whole-genome knockout collections are invaluable for connecting gene sequence to function, yet traditionally they have needed an extraordinary technical effort to construct. Knockout Sudoku is a new method for directing the construction and purification of a curated whole-genome collection of single-gene disruption mutants generated by transposon mutagenesis. Using a simple combinatorial pooling scheme, a highly oversampled collection of transposon mutants can be condensed into a next-generation sequencing library in a single day. The identities of the mutants in the collection are then solved by a predictive algorithm based on Bayesian inference, allowing for rapid curation and validation. Starting from a progenitor collection of 39,918 transposon mutants, we compiled a quality-controlled knockout collection of the electroactive microbe Shewanella oneidensis MR-1 containing representatives for 3,667 genes. High-throughput kinetic measurements on this collection provide a comprehensive view of multiple extracellular electron transfer pathways operating in parallel.', u'Pokeweed antiviral protein (PAP) is a single-chain ribosome-inactivating protein that exists in several forms isolated from various organs and at different stages of development of Phytolacca americana (pokeweed). In this study, PAP-S1, one of the two known isoforms found in seeds, was isolated and PCR amplified using primers based on the known mRNA of PAP-S2, the other known form found in seeds. The complete cDNA encoding PAP-S1 was determined here for the first time. PAP-S1 is a potent antiviral protein with many potential clinical applications. However, it was found to be dosage dependent with observed side effects at high dosage. In this study, we report the production of a recombinant antiviral peptide-fusion protein between Ricin A-chain and PAP-S1. The peptide-fusion recombinant proteins Ricin-A-Chain/PAP-S1 and PAP-S1/Ricin-A-Chain were generated by joining the N-terminus of PAP-S1 to the C-terminus of Ricin A-chain and the C-terminus of PAP-S1 to the N-terminus of Ricin A-chain respectively, and were expressed in an Escherichia coli cell free expression systems. The peptide-fusion recombinant protein Ricin-A-Chain/PAP-S1 (F2) was found to be more active than the PAP-S1/Ricin-A-chain (F1) and similar to PAP-S1 in a cell free prokaryotic environment, and both showed much stronger activity in a cell free eukaryotic environment. The DNA sequence of the complete cDNA of PAP-S1 and of the peptide-fusion protein Ricin-A-Chain/PAP-S1 with the PAP-S1 signal peptide at the N-terminus of Ricin A-chain were inserted in plant destination binary vectors for A. tumefaciens mediated transformation. It is the opinion of the authors that additional research should be done in order to determine both cytotoxicity and selectivity of fusion protein F2 compared to PAP-S1, as it could be a viable, more potent and less cytotoxic alternative to PAP-S1 alone at high dosage, for both agricultural and therapeutic applications.', u'Between October 2013 and April 2014, more than 30,000 cases of Zika virus (ZIKV) disease were estimated to have attended healthcare facilities in French Polynesia. ZIKV has also been reported in Africa and Asia, and in 2015 the virus spread to South America and the Caribbean. Infection with ZIKV has been associated with neurological complications including Guillain-Barre Syndrome (GBS) and microcephaly, which led the World Health Organization to declare a Public Health Emergency of International Concern in February 2015. To better understand the transmission dynamics of ZIKV, we used a mathematical model to examine the 2013-14 outbreak on the six major archipelagos of French Polynesia. Our median estimates for the basic reproduction number ranged from 2.6-4.8, with an estimated 11.5% (95% CI: 7.32-17.9%) of total infections reported. As a result, we estimated that 94% (95% CI: 91-97%) of the total population of the six archipelagos were infected during the outbreak. Based on the demography of French Polynesia, our results imply that if ZIKV infection provides complete protection against future infection, it would take 12-20 years before there are a sufficient number of susceptible individuals for ZIKV to re-emerge, which is on the same timescale as the circulation of dengue virus serotypes in the region. Our analysis suggests that ZIKV may exhibit similar dynamics to dengue virus in island populations, with transmission characterized by large, sporadic outbreaks with a high proportion of asymptomatic or unreported cases.', u'We present vectors for producing multiple CRISPR gRNAs from a single RNA polymerase II or III transcript in Drosophila. The system, which is based on liberation of gRNAs by processing of flanking tRNAs, permits highly efficient multiplexing of Cas9-based mutagenesis. We also demonstrate that the tRNA-gRNA system markedly increases the efficacy of conditional gene disruption by Cas9 and can promote editing by the recently discovered RNA-guided endonuclease Cpf1.', u'A major puzzle in ecology is how antibiotic resistant, sensitive and producer species coexist in close proximity. Recently, we showed that antibiotic degrading species dramatically alter community dynamics: replacing intrinsic resistance with resistance through degradation generates stable communities resilient to spatial mixing, large species abundance perturbations, changes in interaction strengths, and differences in species growth rates. In addition to ecological stability, it is interesting to consider evolutionary stability of these communities to the appearance of cheater species that either cease production or degradation of antibiotics. Our investigation of evolutionary stability of cyclical 3-species communities revealed that these communities are robust to cheaters that stop degrading antibiotics. Our simulations also showed that cheaters that stop producing antibiotics do not take over the community, yet they can transiently invade and cause community collapse. In the analytical approximation we initially investigated, production cheaters with a small fitness advantage can invade the community simply because the benefit of inhibiting competitors is shared among all cells. Here, we consider evolutionary stability to cheaters in our complete model, where spatial mixing is introduced only after a short range colonization step. In this regime, an antibiotic producer cell directly benefits from killing nearby competitor species as it has a greater chance of colonizing the newly voided spaces created by the action of its antibiotic. Simulating response of the cyclical three species community to cheater invasions, we find that these ecologically stable communities can be fully resilient to both degradation and production cheaters. The strength of selection against cheaters varies with the area of the zone of inhibition around producers and is maximized for weak inhibition, where there is less overlap between the killing zones of neighboring cells. These results may aid the construction of complex synthetic communities which are both ecological and evolutionary stable.', u'Spermatozoa are one of the few mammalian cells types that cannot be fully derived in vitro, severely limiting the application of modern genomic techniques to study germ cell biology. The current gold standard approach of characterizing single gene knockout mice is slow as generation of each mutant line can take 6-9 months. Here, we describe an in vivo approach to rapid functional screening of germline genes based on a new non-surgical, non-viral in vivo transfection method to deliver nucleic acids into testicular germ cells. By coupling multiplex transfection of short hairpin RNA constructs with pooled amplicon sequencing as a readout, we were able to screen many genes for spermatogenesis function in a quick and inexpensive experiment. We transfected nine mouse testes with a pilot pool of RNAi against well-characterized genes to show that this system is highly reproducible and accurate. With a false negative rate of 18% and a false positive rate of 12%, this method has similar performance as other RNAi screens in the well-described Drosophila model system. In a separate experiment, we screened 26 uncharacterized genes computationally predicted to be essential for spermatogenesis and found numerous candidates for follow up studies. Further, by characterizing the effect of both libraries on neuronal N2a cells, we show that our screening results from testis are tissue-specific. Our calculations indicate that the current implementation of this approach could be used to screen thousands of protein-coding genes simultaneously in a single mouse testis. The experimental protocols and analysis scripts provided will enable other groups to use this procedure to study diverse aspects of germ cell biology ranging from epigenetics to cell physiology. This approach also has great promise as an applied tool for validating diagnoses made from medical genome sequencing, or designing synthetic biological sequences that act as potent and highly specific male contraceptives.', u'Colonial animals commonly exhibit morphologically polymorphic modular units that are phenotypically distinct and specialize in specific functional tasks. But how and why these polymorphic modules have evolved is poorly understood. Across colonial invertebrates there is wide variation in the degree of polymorphism from none in colonial ascidians, to extreme polymorphism in siphonophores such as the Portuguese Man of War. Bryozoa are a phylum of exclusively colonial invertebrates that uniquely exhibit almost the entire range of polymorphism from monomorphic species to others that rival siphonophores in their polymorphic complexity. Previous approaches to understanding the evolution of polymorphism have been based upon analyses of (1) the functional role of polymorphs or (2) presumed evolutionary costs and benefits based upon ergonomic theory that postulates polymorphism should only be evolutionarily sustainable in more "stable" environments because polymorphism commonly leads to the loss of feeding and sexual competence. Here we use bryozoans from opposite shores of the Isthmus of Panama to revisit the ergonomic hypothesis by comparison of faunas from distinct oceanographic provinces and we then examine the correlations between the extent of polymorphism in relation to patterns of ecological succession and variation in life histories. We find no support for the ergonomic hypothesis. Distributions of the incidence of polymorphism in the oceanographically unstable Eastern Pacific are indistinguishable from those in the more stable Caribbean. In contrast, the temporal position of species in a successional sequence is collinear with the degree of polymorphism because species with fewer types of polymorphs are competitively replaced by species with higher numbers of polymorphs on the same substrata. Competitively dominant species also exhibit patterns of growth that increase their competitive ability. The association between degrees of polymorphism and variations in life histories is fundamental to understanding of the macroevolution of polymorphism.', u'It is unknown what information is represented in distributed brain circuit interactions because we lack methods for decoding the representational content of interregional neural communication. Here we present Multi-Connection Pattern Analysis (MCPA), which is designed to probe the nature of the representational space contained in the multivariate functional connectivity pattern between neural populations. MCPA works by learning mappings between the activity patterns of the populations separately for each condition, stimulus, or brain state in training data. These maps are used to predict the activity from one neural population based on the activity from the other population as a factor of the information being processed in test data. Successful MCPA-based decoding indicates the involvement of distributed computational processing and provides a framework for probing the representational structure of the interaction. Simulations demonstrate the efficacy of MCPA for decoding distributed information processing across a set of realistic circumstances and show that MCPA is insensitive to local information processing. Furthermore, applying MCPA to human intracranial electrophysiological data demonstrates that the interaction between occipital face area and fusiform face area contains information about individual faces. Representational analysis indicates that the OFA-FFA interaction codes face information differently than either the OFA or FFA individually. These results support the hypothesis that face individuation occurs not in a single region, but through interactive computation and distributed information representation across the face processing network. Thus, MCPA, can be used to assess the information processed the coupled activity of distributed, interacting neural circuits.', u'Summary: Metagenomics approaches rely on identifying the presence of organisms in the microbial community from a set of unknown DNA sequences. Sequence classification has valuable applications in multiple important areas of medical and environmental research. Here we introduce FOCUS2, an update of the previously published computational method FOCUS. FOCUS2 was tested with 10 simulated and 543 real metagenomes demonstrating that the program is more sensitive, faster, and more computationally efficient than existing methods.\nAvailability: The Python implementation is freely available at https://edwards.sdsu.edu/FOCUS2.', u'The axon initial segment (AIS) is enriched in specific adaptor, cytoskeletal and transmembrane molecules. During AIS establishment, a membrane diffusion barrier is formed between the axon and the somatodendritic domain. Recently, an axonal periodic pattern of actin, spectrin and ankyrin forming 190 nm distanced, ring-like structures has been discovered. However, whether this structure is related to the diffusion barrier function is unclear.\nHere, we performed single particle tracking timecourse experiments on hippocampal neurons during AIS development. We analyzed the mobility of lipid-anchored molecules by high-speed single particle tracking and correlated positions of membrane molecules with the nanoscopic organization of the AIS cytoskeleton.\nWe observe a strong reduction in mobility early in AIS development. Membrane protein motion in the AIS plasma membrane is confined to a repetitive pattern of ~190 nm spaced segments along the AIS axis as early as DIV4 and this pattern alternates with actin rings. Our data provide a new model for the mechanism of the AIS diffusion barrier.', u'Abstract\nBackground \nAsthma, an inflammatory disorder of the airways, is the most common chronic disease of children worldwide. There are significant racial/ethnic disparities in asthma prevalence, morbidity and mortality among U.S. children. This trend is mirrored in obesity, which may share genetic and environmental risk factors with asthma. The majority of asthma biomedical research has been performed in populations of European decent. \nObjective\nWe sought to identify genetic risk factors for asthma in African American children. We also assessed the generalizability of genetic variants associated with asthma in European and Asian populations to African American children. \nMethods\nOur study population consisted of 1227 (812 asthma cases, 415 controls) African American children with genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) data. Logistic regression was used to identify associations between SNP genotype and asthma status. \nResults \nWe identified a novel variant in the PTCHD3 gene that is significantly associated with asthma (rs660498, p = 2.2 x10-7) independent of obesity status. Fewer than 5% of previously reported asthma genetic associations identified in European populations replicated in African Americans.  \nConclusions\nOur identification of novel variants associated with asthma in African American children, coupled with our inability to replicate the majority of findings reported in European Americans, underscores the necessity for including diverse populations in biomedical studies of asthma.', u'Coccidioidomycosis (or valley fever) is a fungal disease with high morbidity and mortality that affects tens of thousands of people each year. This infection is caused by two sibling species, Coccidioides immitis and C. posadasii, which are endemic to specific arid locales throughout the Western Hemisphere, particularly the desert southwest of the United States. Recent epidemiological and population genetic data suggest that the geographic range of coccidioidomycosis is expanding as new endemic clusters have been identified in the state of Washington, well outside of the established endemic range. The genetic mechanisms and epidemiological consequences of this expansion are unknown and require better understanding of the population structure and evolutionary history of these pathogens. Here we perform whole genome SNP analyses of 64 new and 18 previously published genomes. The results provide evidence of substantial population structure in C. posadasii and demonstrate presence of distinct geographic clades in central and southern Arizona as well as dispersed populations in Texas, Mexico, South America and Central America. Although a smaller number of C. immitis strains were included in the analyses, some evidence of phylogeographic structure was also detected in this species, which has been historically limited to California and Baja Mexico. SNP-based analyses indicated that C. posadasii is the more ancient of the two species and southern Arizona contains the most diverse subpopulations. We propose a southern Arizona-northern Mexico origin for C. posadasii and describe a pathway for dispersal and distribution out of this region.', u'Infection with Asian lineage Zika virus has been associated with Guillain-Barr\xe9 syndrome and fetal microcephaly 1-4. Here we show that rhesus macaques are susceptible to infection by an Asian lineage Zika virus isolate that shares more than 99% nucleotide identity with strains currently circulating in the Americas. Following subcutaneous inoculation, Zika virus RNA was detected in plasma one-day post infection (dpi) in all animals (N = 3). Plasma viral loads peaked above 1 x 106 viral RNA copies/mL in two of three animals. Viral RNA was also present in saliva, urine, and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), consistent with case reports from infected humans. Zika virus RNA persisted in both plasma and urine at low levels for more than two weeks. Infection was associated with transient increases in proliferating natural killer cells, CD8+ and CD4+ T cells, and plasmablasts, suggesting pathogen sensing by the immune system. These data establish that Asian lineage Zika virus infection in rhesus macaques provides a relevant animal model for human infection. Furthermore, because fetal development is well characterized in rhesus macaques, infections in pregnant macaques will enable important studies of fetal defects associated with Zika virus.', u"The flexibility of behavioral control is a testament to the brain's capacity for dynamically resolving uncertainty during goal-directed actions. This ability to select actions and learn from immediate feedback is driven by the dynamics of basal ganglia (BG) pathways. A growing body of empirical evidence conflicts with the traditional view that these pathways act as independent levers for facilitating (i.e., direct pathway) or suppressing (i.e., indirect pathway) motor output, suggesting instead that they engage in a dynamic competition during action decisions that computationally captures action uncertainty. Here we discuss the utility of encoding action uncertainty as a dynamic competition between opposing control pathways and provide evidence that this simple mechanism may have powerful implications for bridging neurocomputational theories of decision making and reinforcement learning.", u'The COP9-Signalosome (CSN) regulates cullin-RING ubiquitin ligase (CRL) activity and assembly by cleaving Nedd8 from cullins. Free CSN is autoinhibited, and it remains unclear how it becomes activated. We combine structural and kinetic analyses to identify mechanisms that contribute to CSN activation and Nedd8 deconjugation. Both CSN and neddylated substrate undergo large conformational changes upon binding, with important roles played by the N-terminal domains of Csn2 and Csn4 and the RING domain of Rbx1 in enabling formation of a high affinity, fully active complex. The RING domain is crucial for deneddylation, and works in part through conformational changes involving insert-2 of Csn6. Nedd8 deconjugation and re-engagement of the active site zinc by the autoinhibitory Csn5 glutamate-104 diminish affinity for Cul1/Rbx1 by ~100-fold, resulting in its rapid ejection from the active site. Together, these mechanisms enable a dynamic deneddylation-disassembly cycle that promotes rapid remodeling of the cellular CRL network.', u"The ability to introspectively evaluate our experiences to form accurate metacognitive beliefs, or insight, is an essential component of decision-making. Previous research suggests individuals vary substantially in their level of insight, and that this variation predicts brain volume and function, particularly in the anterior prefrontal cortex (aPFC). However, the neurobiological mechanisms underlying these effects are unclear, as qualitative, macroscopic measures such as brain volume can be related to a variety of microstructural features. Here we used a newly developed, high-resolution multi-parameter mapping technique in 48 healthy individuals to delineate quantitative markers of in vivo histological features underlying metacognitive ability. Specifically, we examined how neuroimaging markers of local grey matter myelination, macromolecular and iron content relate to insight. Extending previous volumetric findings, we found that metacognitive ability, as determined by a signal-detection theoretic model, was positively related to the myelo-architectural integrity of aPFC grey matter. Interestingly, perceptual metacognition predicted decreased macromolecule content coupled with increased iron in the hippocampus and precuneus, areas previously implicated in meta-memory rather than meta-perception. Further, the relationship of hippocampal-precuneus and prefrontal microstructure to an auditory memory measure was respectively mediated or suppressed by metacognitive ability, suggesting a dynamic trade-off between participant's memory and metacognition. These results point towards a novel understanding of the relationship between memory, brain microstructure, and metacognition.", u'Codon usage patterns of viruses reflect a series of evolutionary changes that enable viruses to shape their survival rates and fitness toward the external environment and, most importantly, their hosts. In the present study, we employed multiple codon usage analysis indices to determine genotype specific codon usage patterns of Zika virus (ZIKV) strains from the current outbreak and those reported previously. Several genotype specific and common codon usage traits were noted in ZIKV coding sequences, indicative of independent evolutionary origins from a common ancestor. The overall influence of natural selection was found to be more profound than that of mutation pressure and acting on specific set of viral genes belonging to ZIKV strains of Asian genotype from the recent outbreak. Furthermore, an interplay of codon adaptation and deoptimization have been observed in ZIKV genomes. The collective findings of codon analysis in association with the geographical data of Aedes populations in the Americas suggests that ZIKV have evolved a dynamic set of codon usage patterns in order to maintain a successful replication and transmission chain within multiple hosts and vectors.', u"Wolbachia are intracellular, inherited Alphaproteobacteria present in a large proportion of arthropod species and in filarial nematodes. Wolbachia-host interactions are many-faceted and include, but are not limited to reproductive manipulations (Werren et al. 2008), nutritional mutualism (Nikoh et al. 2014), and protection from pathogens (Hedges et al. 2008, Teixeira et al. 2008). Although there is just a single Wolbachia species described, the genus is highly diverse with regard to its distribution, phenotypes induced in the host, and genomic architecture. The generally accepted classification scheme currently in use differentiates among genetically distinct, monophyletic lineages named 'supergroups' (Lindsey et al. 2016). To date, 16 of these Wolbachia lineages that - based on multiple genetic markers - are clearly distinct from another were described (supergroups A-F and H-Q, Glowska et al. 2015). \n\tIn a recent study, Wang et al. (2016) reported the discovery of a novel, 17th Wolbachia supergroup ('R') from cave spiders (Telema ssp.). The authors base this conclusion on phylogenetic analyses of sequences from three protein coding genes (ftsZ, coxA, groEL) and the 16S rRNA gene. Here, I re-analyse these data and show that Wolbachia from Telema spiders clusters with supergroup A strains and thus, the creation of a novel Wolbachia supergroup for these strains is without justification.", u'As a consequence of the ongoing demographic change, osteoporosis is considered as one of the mayor challenges for the health care system of the 21st century. However, the exact etiology of osteoporosis is far from being understood. Some evidence suggests that changes in stem cell metabolism might contribute to development of the disease. Therefore we evaluated whether differences of the morphology and/or the energy metabolism of mitochondria can be observed between human bone marrow derived mesenchymal stem cells obtained from osteoporotic patients as compared to non-osteoporotic controls.\nMesenchymal stem cells were isolated from the bone marrow of senile osteoporotic and non osteoporotic patients, osteoporosis being assessed by dual energy X-ray absorptiometry. We then confirmed the stemness of the cells by FACS analysis of the expression of surface markers and by conducting multi-lineage differentiation experiments. And we finally investigated mitochondrial morphology and function with electron microscopy of cryo-fixed samples and by high-resolution respirometry, respectively. In addition we compared the energy metabolism of the stem cells to those of the osteosarcoma cell line MG-63.\nThe data show, for the first time, the applicability on stem cells of the methods used here. Furthermore, our results indicated that there are no obvious differences detectable in mitochondrial morphology between cells from osteoporotic and non osteoporotic donors and that these cells also seem to be energetically indistinguishable with unchanged rates of routine respiration and respiratory capacity as well as unaltered oxygen consumption rates linked to different respiratory complexes. In summary, we could not detect any evidence indicating major changes of mitochondrial features in cells from osteoporotic patients.', u'Despite their recognized limitations, bibliometric assessments of scientific productivity have been widely adopted. We describe here an improved method that makes novel use of the co-citation network of each article to field-normalize the number of citations it has received. The resulting Relative Citation Ratio is article-level and field-independent, and provides an alternative to the invalid practice of using Journal Impact Factors to identify influential papers. To illustrate one application of our method, we analyzed 88,835 articles published between 2003 and 2010, and found that the National Institutes of Health awardees who authored those papers occupy relatively stable positions of influence across all disciplines. We demonstrate that the values generated by this method strongly correlate with the opinions of subject matter experts in biomedical research, and suggest that the same approach should be generally applicable to articles published in all areas of science. A beta version of iCite, our web tool for calculating Relative Citation Ratios of articles listed in PubMed, is available at https://icite.od.nih.gov .', u'In statistical genetics an important task involves building predictive models for the genotype-phenotype relationships and thus attribute a proportion of the total phenotypic variance to the variation in genotypes. Numerous  models have been proposed to incorporate additive genetic effects into models for prediction or association. However, there is a scarcity of models that can adequately account for gene by gene or  other forms of genetical interactions. In addition, there is an increased interest in using marker annotations in genome-wide prediction and association. In this paper, we discuss an hybrid modeling methodology which combines the parametric mixed modeling approach and the non-parametric rule ensembles. This approach gives us a flexible class of models that can be used to capture additive, locally epistatic genetic effects, gene x background interactions and allows us to incorporate one or more annotations into the genomic selection or association models. We use benchmark data sets covering a range of organisms and traits in addition to simulated data sets to illustrate the strengths of this approach. The improvement of model accuracies and association results suggest that a part of the "missing heritability" in complex traits can be captured by modeling local epistasis.', u'van Oudenaarden and colleagues employ elegant experiments and control theory to model perfect adaptation of the yeast osmotic stress response- precise return of turgor pressure to its optimal, steady-state value despite variation in system parameters and the continued presence of osmotic stress.  Their data convincingly show that nuclear signaling and cell volume undergo robust perfect adaptation implying integral feedback must restore their steady-state values.  However they incorrectly map the integrator onto a minimal network that violates assumptions implicit in conventional block diagrams.  Using known features of osmotic stress signaling and results presented by the authors, I argue that glycerol concentration -the integral of the rate of glycerol accumulation (synthesis versus leakage)- transforms metabolic energy into increased osmolarity that drives water influx and restoration of turgor pressure.  Integral feedback control actuated through glycerol synthesis is logically positioned to provide perfect adaptation and robustness in hyperosmotic stress responses.', u"Recent research has highlighted a distinction between sequential foraging choices and traditional economic choices between simultaneously presented options. This was partly motivated by observations in Kolling et al. (2012) [KBMR] that these choice types are subserved by different circuits, with dorsal anterior cingulate (dACC) preferentially involved in foraging and ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) preferentially involved in economic choice. To support this account, KBMR used fMRI to scan human subjects making either a foraging choice (between exploiting a current offer or swapping for potentially better rewards) or an economic choice (between two reward-probability pairs). This study found that dACC better tracked values pertaining to foraging, while vmPFC better tracked values pertaining to economic choice. We recently showed that dACC's role in these foraging choices is better described by the difficulty of choosing than by foraging value, when correcting for choice biases and testing a sufficiently broad set of foraging values (Shenhav et al., 2014). Here, we extend these findings in three ways. First, we replicate our original finding with a larger sample and a task modified to address remaining methodological gaps between our previous experiments and that of KBMR. Second, we show that dACC activity is best accounted for by choice difficulty alone (rather than in combination with foraging value) during both foraging and economic choices. Third, we show that patterns of vmPFC activity, inverted relative to dACC, also suggest a common function across both choice types. Overall, we conclude that both regions are similarly engaged by foraging-like and economic choice.", u'Mutation rate is a crucial evolutionary parameter that has typically been treated as a constant in population genetic analyses. However, mutation rate is likely to vary among co-existing individuals within a population, due to genetic polymorphisms, heterogeneous environmental influences, and random physiological fluctuations. We explore the consequences of such mutation rate heterogeneity in a model allowing an arbitrary distribution of mutation rate among individuals, either with or without inheritance.  We find that variation of mutation rate about the mean results in a higher probability of producing zero or many simultaneous mutations on a genome. Moreover, it increases the frequency of higher order mutants even under ongoing mutation and selection. We gain a quantitative understanding of how this frequency depends on moments of the mutation rate distribution and selection coefficients. In particular, in a two-locus model, heterogeneity leads to a relative increase in double mutant frequency proportional to the squared coefficient of variation of the mutation rate.  Relative effect sizes increase with the number of loci. Finally, this clustering of deleterious mutations into fewer individuals results in a higher population mean fitness.  Our results imply that mutation rate heterogeneity allows a population to maintain a higher level of adaptedness to its current environment, while simultaneously harboring greater genetic diversity in the standing variation, which could be crucial for future adaptation to a new environment. Our results also have implications for interpreting mutation rate estimates and mutant frequencies in data.', u"Hypothesis weighting is a powerful approach for improving the power of data analyses that employ multiple testing. However, in general it is not evident how to choose the weights in a data-dependent manner. We describe independent hypothesis weighting (IHW), a method for making use of informative covariates that are independent of the test statistic under the null, but informative of each test's power or prior probability of the null hypothesis. Covariates can be continuous or categorical and need not fulfill any particular assumptions. The method increases statistical power in applications while controlling the false discovery rate (FDR) and produces additional insight by revealing the covariate-weight relationship. Independent hypothesis weighting is a practical approach to discovery of associations in large datasets.", u'Whenever we engage in a cognitive task, multiple brain regions are engaged. Understanding how these regions interact is a fundamental step to uncover the neural mechanisms that make behavior possible. The majority of the investigations of interactions between brain regions have focused on the overall univariate responses in the regions. However, in the context of "static" analyses, drastic advantages have derived from the application of multivariate techniques considering the fine-grained spatial structure of responses within each region (multivariate pattern analysis - MVPA). In the present article, we introduce and apply a technique to study connectivity in terms of the relations between multivariate patterns of responses\nwithin brain regions: multivariate pattern connectivity (MVPC). Considering the fusiform face area (FFA) as a seed region, we show that MVPC provides novel information about the interactions between regions that goes beyond univariate functional connectivity analyses.', u'Although soybean seeds appear homogeneous, their composition (protein, oil and mineral concentrations) can vary significantly with the canopy position where they were produced.   In studies with 10 cultivars grown over a 3-yr period, we found that seeds produced at the top of the canopy have higher concentrations of protein but less oil and lower concentrations of minerals such as Mg, Fe, and Cu compared to seeds produced at the bottom of the canopy.  Among cultivars, mean protein concentration (average of different positions) correlated positively with mean concentrations of S, Zn and Fe, but not other minerals. Therefore, on a whole plant basis, the uptake and allocation of S, Zn and Fe to seeds correlated with the production and allocation of reduced N to seed protein; however, the reduced N and correlated minerals (S, Zn and Fe) showed different patterns of allocation among node positions.  For example, while mean concentrations of protein and Fe correlated positively, the two parameters correlated negatively in terms of variation with canopy position.  Altering the microenvironment within the soybean canopy by removing neighboring plants at flowering increased protein concentration in particular at lower node positions and thus altered the node-position gradient in protein (and oil) without altering the distribution of Mg, Fe and Cu, suggesting different underlying control mechanisms. Metabolomic analysis of developing seeds at different positions in the canopy suggests that availability of free asparagine may be a positive determinant of storage protein accumulation in seeds and may explain the increased protein accumulation in seeds produced at the top of the canopy. Our results establish node-position variation in seed constituents and provide a new experimental system to identify genes controlling key aspects of seed composition. In addition, our results provide an unexpected and simple approach to link agronomic practices to improve human nutrition and health in developing countries because food products produced from seeds at the bottom of the canopy contained higher Fe concentrations than products from the top of the canopy.  Therefore, using seeds produced in the lower canopy for production of iron-rich soy foods for human consumption could be important when plants are the major source of protein and human diets can be chronically deficient in Fe and other minerals.', u'The problem of de-novo assembly for metagenomes using only long reads is gaining attention. We study whether post-processing metagenomic assemblies with the original input long reads can result in quality improvement. Previous approaches have focused on pre-processing reads and optimizing assemblers. BIGMAC takes an alternative perspective to focus on the post-processing step. Using both the assembled contigs and original long reads as input, BIGMAC first breaks the contigs at potentially mis-assembled locations and subsequently scaffolds contigs. Our experiments on metagenomes assembled from long reads show that BIGMAC can improve assembly quality by reducing the number of mis-assemblies while maintaining/increasing N50 and N75. The software is available at https://github.com/kakitone/BIGMAC', u'A low-coverage genome was generated for each of four environmental key-species of macroinvertebrate taxa for the primary purpose of microsatellite marker development. De novo assemblies and microsatellite markers were designed for the freshwater species Isoperla grammatica, Amphinemura sulcicollis, and Baetis rhodani but have not been completed for the common shiny woodlice Oniscus asellus. Here, the data is made available, and the methods and pipeline are described which led to the creation of this resource. As widespread and functionally important organisms, which are often neglected in favour of studies on vertebrates, this data will be a useful resource for further research.', u'Ethnopharmacological relevance of the study;\nDiarrhea remains one of the main killers of children aged below five years. Traditional antidiarrheal remedies form a potentially viable source of novel low cost efficacious antidiarrheal remedies in low resource settings. There is therefore a pressing to scientifically evaluate these remedies. \n \nAim of the study; \nThis study aimed to investigate the \u2033in-vivo\u2033 and \u2033in-vitro\u2033 antidiarrheal activity of Bidens biternata a herb species used in traditional Indian medicine in the management of diarrhea. \nMaterials and Methods;\nIn the castor oil test twenty (20) adult Sprague-Dawley rats were randomized to the negative control (normal saline), positive control (5 mg/kg loperamide), (200 mg/kg Bidens biternata extract) and (400 mg/kg Bidens biternata extract) groups (n=5 in each group). Castor oil (4 ml/kg) was then administered to the animals one hour after administration of the respective treatments after which the total mass of fecal output excreted after four (4) hours was determined.\n In the charcoal meal test fifteen (15) Sprague Dawley rats were randomized to the negative control (normal saline 5 ml/kg orally), the positive control (atropine sulphate 0.1 mg/kg i.p) and test (400 mg/kg Bidens biternata extract) groups (n=5). Charcoal meal was then administered via oral gavage to each rat thirty (30) minutes after the administration of the various treatments. The distance covered by the charcoal meal from the pylorus was then determined after sacrifice of the animals.\nIn the enteropooling test twenty (20) Sprague-Dawley rats were randomized to the negative control (5% v/v ethanol in normal saline), positive control (5 mg/kg loperamide) and test (400 mg/kg Bidens biternata extract) groups and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) (100\u03bcg/kg) administered immediately after the treatments.  The animals were then sacrificed half an hour later and the volume of the small intestine contents determined.\nThe effects of different concentrations of Bidens biternata extract (0.5. 1.0, 2.0, 3.0 and 5.0 mg/ml) on jejunal contraction were investigated and a dose-response curve constructed using the experimental data after which The ED50 dose determined. The effect of tamsulosin (\u03b11 adrenergic blocker), yohimbine (\u03b12 adrenergic blocker), propranolol (\u03b2adrenergic blocker) and naloxone (\u03bcopioid blocker) on the contractile activity of the extract were also investigated. \nThe experimental data were expressed as mean \xb1 standard error of mean (SEM) and then analyzed  using one way ANOVA followed by Tukey\u2032s post hoc test in cases of significance (set at p<0.05).\nResults \nThe freeze dried extracts of Bidens biternata had significant antidiarrheal effects in the castor oil induced diarrhea model (p=0.0075) with maximal activity being observed at the 400mg/kg dosage level (1.66\xb1 0.81g vs. 4.54 \xb1 0.51 g negative control, p=0.01). Bidens biternata extract had significant effects on intestinal motility in the charcoal meal test compared to the control group (43.61 \xb1 4.42% vs. 60.54 \xb1 3.33%: p= 0.02).  Bidens biternata extract had a significant effect on PGE2 induced enteropooling (3.06 \xb1 0.07 ml vs. 4.74 \xb1 0.10 ml; p<0.001).\nThe freeze dried extracts of Bidens biternata had a significant negative effect on the contractility of the isolated rabbit jejunum (p<0.001). The effects of the extract were significantly attenuated by tamsulosin (53.94 \xb1 4.20% vs. 80.57 \xb1 4.09%; p=0.0067) and naloxone (53.94 \xb1 4.20% vs. 73.89 \xb1 7.26 %; p=0.0358). Yohimbine (p=0.4598) and propranolol (p=0.5966) however did not have any significant effect on the contractile activity of the extract. \nConclusions\nThe freeze dried extract of Bidens biternata possess significant antidiarrheal activity in both \u2033in vitro\u2033 and \u2033in vivo\u2033 models which appears to be mediated by modulating both the intestinal motility as well as the secretory activity. The results of this study also validate its traditional use as an antidiarrheal remedy.', u"Genome sequencing has become commonplace, but the understanding of how those genomes ultimately specify cell fate during development is still elusive. Extrapolating insights from deep investigation of a handful of developmentally important Drosophila genes to understanding the regulation of all genes is a major challenge. The developing embryo provides a unique opportunity to study the role of gene expression in pattern specification; the precise and consistent spatial positioning of key transcription factors essentially provides separate transcriptional-readout experiments at a critical point in development.\n\nWe cryosectioned and sequenced mRNA from single Drosophila melanogaster embryos at the blastoderm stage to screen for spatially-varying regulation of transcription. Expanding on our previous screening of wild type embryos, here we present data from dosage mutants for key maternally provided regulators, including depletion of zelda and hunchback and both over-expression and depletion of bicoid. These data recapitulate all of the expected patterning changes driven by these regulators; for instance, we show spatially-confined up-regulation of expression in the bicoid over-expression condition, and down-regulation of those genes in the bicoid knock-down case, consistent with bicoid's known function as an anterior-localized activator.\n\nOur data highlight the role of combinatorial regulation of patterning gene expression. When comparing changes in multiple conditions, genes responsive to one mutation tend to respond to other mutations in a similar fashion. Furthermore, genes that respond differently to these mutations tend to have more complex patterns of TF binding.", u'Background\nAlthough metatranscriptomics - the study of diverse microbial population activity based on RNA-seq data - is rapidly growing in popularity, there are limited options for biologists to analyze this type of data. Current approaches for processing metatranscriptomes rely on restricted databases and a dedicated computing cluster, or metagenome-based approaches that have not been fully evaluated for processing metatranscriptomic datasets. We created a new bioinformatics pipeline, SAMSA, designed specifically for metatranscriptome dataset analysis, which runs either in-house or in conjunction with Metagenome-RAST (MG-RAST) servers. Designed for use by researchers with relatively little bioinformatics experience, SAMSA offers a breakdown of metatranscriptome activity by organism or transcript function, and is fully open source. We next used this new tool to evaluate best practices for sequencing stool metatranscriptomes.\n\nResults\nWorking with the MG-RAST annotation server, we constructed the Simple Annotation of Metatranscriptomes by Sequence Analysis (SAMSA) software package, a complete pipeline for the analysis of gut microbiome data. In creating this package, we determined optimal parameters in data collection and processing. SAMSA can summarize and evaluate raw annotation results, identifying abundant species and significant functional differences between metatranscriptomes.\n\nUsing pilot data and simulated subsets, we determined experimental requirements for fecal gut metatranscriptomes. Sequences need to be either long reads (longer than 100bp) or paired-end reads that can be joined. Each sample nees 40-50 million raw sequences which can be expected to yield the 5-10 million annotated reads necessary for accurate abundance measures. We also demonstrated that ribosomal RNA depletion does not equally deplete ribosomes from all species within a sample, and remaining rRNA sequences should be discarded. Using publicly available metatranscriptome data in which rRNA was not depleted, we were able to demonstrate that organism activity can be measured using mRNA counts. We were also able to detect significant differences between control and experimental groups in both organism activity and functional activity.\n\nConclusions\nBy making this new pipeline publicly available, we have created a powerful new tool for metatranscriptomics research, offering a new method for greater insight into the activity of diverse microbial communities. We further recommend that stool metatranscriptomes be ribodepleted and sequenced in a 100bp paired end format with a minimum of 40 million reads per sample.', u'Background:\nPCR clonal artefacts originating from NGS library preparation can affect both genomic as well as RNA-Seq applications when protocols are pushed to their limits. In RNA-Seq however the artifactual reads are not easy to tell apart from normal read duplication due to natural over-sequencing of highly expressed genes. Especially when working with little input material or single cells assessing the fraction of duplicate reads is an important quality control step for NGS data sets. Up to now there are only tools to calculate the global duplication rates that do not take into account the effect of gene expression levels which leaves them of limited use for RNA-Seq data.\n\nResults:\nHere we present the tool dupRadar, which provides an easy means to distinguish artefactual from natural duplicate reads in RNA-Seq data. dupRadar assesses the fraction of duplicate reads per gene dependent on the expression level. Apart from the Bioconductor package dupRadar we provide shell scripts for easy integration into processing pipelines.', u"This study describes the development of an integrated dengue alert system (InfoDengue),\noperating initially in the city of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. It is a project developed as a partnership\nbetween academia and the municipal health secretariat. At the beginning of each\nepidemiological week, the system captures climate time series, dengue case reporting and\nactivity on a social network. After data pre-processing, including a probabilistic correction of\ncase notification delay, and calculation of dengue's effective reproductive number, indicators of\ndengue transmission are coded into four dengue situation levels, for each of the city's ten health\ndistricts. A risk map is generated to inform the public about the week's level of attention and the\nevolution of the disease incidence and suggest actions. A report is also sent automatically to the\nmunicipality's situation room, containing a detailed presentation of the data and alert levels by\nhealth district. The preliminary analysis of InfoDengue in Rio de Janeiro, using historical series\nfrom 2011 to 2014 and prospective data from January to December 2015, indicates good\ndegree of confidence and accuracy. The successful experience in the city of Rio de Janeiro is a\nmotivating argument for the expansion of InfoDengue to other cities. After a year in production,\nInfoDengue has become a unique source of carefully curated data for epidemiological studies,\ncombining epidemological and environmental variables in unprecedented spatial and temporal\nresolutions.", u'Approximately 2-4\\% of genetic material in human populations outside Africa is derived from Neanderthals who interbred with anatomically modern humans. Recent studies have shown that this Neanderthal DNA is depleted around functional genomic regions; this has been suggested to be a consequence of harmful epistatic interactions between human and Neanderthal alleles. However, using published estimates of Neanderthal inbreeding and the distribution of mutational fitness effects, we infer that Neanderthals had at least 40% lower fitness than humans on average; this increased load predicts the reduction in Neanderthal introgression around genes without the need to invoke epistasis. We also predict a residual Neanderthal mutational load in non-Africans, leading to a fitness reduction of at least 0.5%. This effect of Neanderthal admixture has been left out of previous debate on mutation load differences between Africans and non-Africans. We also show that if many deleterious mutations are recessive, the Neanderthal admixture fraction could increase over time due to the protective effect of Neanderthal haplotypes against deleterious alleles that arose recently in the human population. This might partially explain why so many organisms retain gene flow from other species and appear to derive adaptive benefits from introgression.', u'In the past ten years, many studies have shown that malignant tissue has been normalized in vitro using mechanical signals. We apply the principles of physical oncology (or mechanobiology) in vivo to show the effect of a constraint field on tumor growth. The human breast cancer cell line, MDA MB 231, admixed with ferric nanoparticles was grafted subcutaneously in Nude mice. The magnetizable particles rapidly surrounded the growing tumor.\nTwo permanent magnets located on either side of the tumor created a gradient of magnetic field. Magnetic energy is transformed into mechanical energy by the particles acting as bioactuators, applying a constraint field and, by consequence, biomechanical stress to the tumor. This biomechanical treatment was applied 2 hours/day during 21 days, from Day 18 to Day 39 following tumor implantation. The study lasted 74 days. Palpable tumor was measured two times a week. There was a significant in vivo difference between the median volume of treated tumors and untreated controls in the mice measured up to D 74 (D 59 + population): (529 [346; 966] mm3 vs 1334 [256; 2106] mm3; p=0.015), treated mice having smaller tumors. The difference was not statistically significant in the group of mice measured at least to D 59 (D 59 population).\nOn ex vivo examination, the surface of the tumor mass, measured on histologic sections, was less in the treated group, G1, than in the control groups: G2 (nanoparticles, no magnetic field), G3 (magnetic field, no nanoparticles), G4 (no nanoparticles, no magnetic field) in the D 59 population (Median left surface was significantly lower in G1 (5.6 [3.0; 42.4] mm2, p=0.005) than in G2 (20.8 [4.9; 34.3]), G3 (16.5 [13.2; 23.2]) and G4 (14.8 [1.8; 55.5]); Median right surface was significantly lower in G1 (4.7 [1.9; 29.2] mm2, p=0.015) than in G2 (25.0 [5.2; 55.0]), G3 (18.0 [14.6; 35.2]) and G4 (12.5 [1.5; 51.8]). There was no statistically significant difference in the day 59+ population. This is the first demonstration of the effect of stress on tumor growth in vivo suggesting  that biomechanical intervention may have a high translational potential as a therapy in locally advanced tumors like pancreatic cancer or primary hepatic carcinoma for which no effective therapy is currently available.', u'The development of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) techniques has defined modern neuroimaging. Since its inception, tens of thousands of studies using techniques such as functional MRI and diffusion weighted imaging have allowed for the non-invasive study of the brain. Despite the fact that MRI is routinely used to obtain data for neuroscience research, there has been no widely adopted standard for organizing and describing the data collected in an imaging experiment. This renders sharing and reusing data (within or between labs) difficult if not impossible and unnecessarily complicates the application of automatic pipelines and quality assurance protocols. To solve this problem, we have developed the Brain Imaging Data Structure (BIDS), a standard for organizing and describing MRI datasets. The BIDS standard uses file formats compatible with existing software, unifies the majority of practices already common in the field, and captures the metadata necessary for most common data processing operations.', u'Uncovering the genetic basis of adaptation is one of the greatest challenges facing modern evolutionary biology, often sparking much controversy, especially among practitioners within different subfields. Here we ask where is the locus of adaptation from the perspective of ecological genomics (ecogen) and evolutionary developmental biology (evodevo). Ecogen focuses on identifying loci under selection between populations living in different environments by scanning genome-wide patterns of genetic divergence, while evodevo focuses on candidate developmental regulatory genes and networks underlying phenotypic differences between species and higher taxa. We attempt to reconcile these alternative perspectives by studying the response of ant populations to past climate change on the Arizona Sky Islands, which are high elevation mountain ranges that represents a replicated natural experiment. We previously showed that adaptation to climatic changes in the Arizona Sky Islands in ant species Monomorium emersoni occurred through repeatable changes within the gene network underlying the development of dispersal alternative phenotypes: winged and wingless queens. Here, we uncover several loci under positive selection which associate with habitat temperature, a pattern consistent with a predictable and repeated increase in frequency following climatic changes on each of the Sky Islands. Furthermore, we show that gene flow between locations within a Sky Island is not a consequence of dispersal phenotypes and its gene network, but rather, is restricted by temperature adaptation along the ecological gradient. This suggests that the determination of winged and wingless queens may be developmentally plastic, and this plasticity and may facilitate jumps between adaptive peaks on the fitness landscape. This complex interplay promotes predictability on both genetic and phenotypic levels for multiple traits in the same species.', u'Many disciplines, from human genetics and oncology to plant and animal breeding, microbiology and virology, commonly face the challenge of analyzing rapidly increasing numbers of genomes. In case of Homo sapiens, the number of sequenced genomes will approach hundreds of thousands in the next few years. Simply scaling up established bioinformatics pipelines will not be sufficient for leveraging the full potential of such rich genomic datasets. Instead, novel, qualitatively different computational methods and paradigms are needed. We will witness the rapid extension of Computational Pan-Genomics, a new sub-area of research in computational biology. In this paper, we examine already available approaches to construct and use pan-genomes, discuss the potential benefits of future technologies and methodologies, and review open challenges from the vantage point of the above-mentioned biological disciplines. As a prominent example for a computational paradigm shift, we particularly highlight the transition from the representation of reference genomes as strings to representations as graphs. We outline how this and other challenges from different application domains translate into common computational problems, point out relevant bioinformatics techniques and identify open problems in computer science. In this way, we aim to form a computational pan-genomics community that bridges several biological and computational disciplines.', u'Lianas are structural parasites that depress growth, fertility and survival rates of their hosts, but the magnitude to which they alter these rates differ among host species.  We tested the hypothesis that sycamore (Platanus occidentalis L.) would have fewer adventitious root-climbing lianas. We reasoned that because P. occidentalis possesses exfoliating bark, it would periodically shed newly-established lianas from the trunk.  We investigated the distribution of lianas on the trunks of trees \u226510 cm DBH in floodplains in southwestern Ohio.  Contrary to predictions, P. occidentalis trees had significantly more root-climbing lianas than expected at three of five sites, and significantly fewer than expected at one site.  In contrast, members of the Acer genus (boxelder (A. negundo L.), sugar maple (A. saccharum L.) and silver maple (A. saccharinum L.) had less than half of the root-climbing lianas as expected.  We find no support for our hypothesis that bark exfoliation protects P. occidentalis trees from root-climbing lianas in our study, and suggest possible mechanisms that might protect Acer species from adventitious root-climbing lianas.', u"A fundamental challenge in analyzing next-generation sequencing data is to determine an individual's genotype correctly as the accuracy of the inferred genotype is essential to downstream analyses. Some genotype callers, such as GATK and SAMtools, directly calculate the base-calling error rates from  phred  scores or recalibrated base quality scores. Others, such as SeqEM, estimate error rates from the read data without using any quality scores. It is also a common quality control procedure to filter out reads with low  phred  scores. However, choosing an appropriate  phred  score threshold is problematic as a too-high threshold may lose data while a too-low threshold may introduce errors.\nWe propose a new likelihood-based genotype-calling approach that exploits all reads and estimates the per-base error rates by incorporating  phred  scores through a logistic regression model. The algorithm, which we call PhredEM, uses the Expectation-Maximization (EM) algorithm to obtain consistent estimates of genotype frequencies and logistic regression parameters. We also develop a simple, computationally efficient screening algorithm to identify loci that are estimated to be monomorphic, so that only loci estimated to be non-monomorphic require application of the EM algorithm. We evaluate the performance of PhredEM using both simulated data and real sequencing data from the UK10K project. The results demonstrate that PhredEM is an improved, robust and widely applicable genotype-calling approach for next-generation sequencing studies. The relevant software is freely available.", u'Motivation:\nWith the development of single cell RNA-seq (scRNA-seq) technology, scRNA-seq experiments with ordered conditions (e.g. time-course) are becoming common. Methods developed for analyzing ordered bulk RNA-seq experiments are not applicable to scRNA-seq, since their distributional assumptions are often violated by additional heterogeneities prevalent in scRNA-seq.\nHere we present SCPattern - an empirical Bayes model to characterize genes with expression changes in ordered scRNA-seq experiments. SCPattern utilizes the non-parametrical Kolmogorov-Smirnov statistic, thus it has the flexibility to identify genes with a wide variety of types of changes. Additionally, the Bayes framework allows SCPattern to classify genes into expression patterns with probability estimates.\n\nResults:\nSimulation results show that SCPattern is well powered for identifying genes with expression changes while the false discovery rate is well controlled. SCPattern is also able to accurately classify these dynamic genes into directional expression patterns. Applied to a scRNA-seq time course dataset studying human embryonic cell differentiation, SCPattern detected a group of important genes that are involved in mesendoderm and definitive endoderm cell fate decisions, positional patterning, and cell cycle.\n\n\nAvailability and Implementation:\nThe SCPattern is implemented as an R package along with a user-friendly graphical interface, which are available at:\nhttps://github.com/lengning/SCPattern\n\nContact: rstewart@morgridge.org', u'Computational workflows and pipelines are often created to automate  series of processing steps. For instance, workflows enable one to standardize analysis for large projects or core facilities, but are also useful for individual biologists who need to perform repetitive data processing. Some workflow systems, designed for beginners, offer a graphical user interface and have been very popular with biologists. In practice, these tools are infrequently used by more experienced bioinformaticians, who may require more flexibility or performance than afforded by the user interfaces, and seem to prefer developing workflows with scripting or command line tools. Here, we present a workflow system, the NextflowWorkbench (NW), which was designed for both beginners and experts, and blends the distinction between user interface and scripting language. This system extends and reuses the popular Nextflow workflow description language and shares its advantages. In contrast to Nextflow, NextflowWorkbench offers an integrated development environment that helps complete beginners get started with workflow development. Auto-completion helps beginners who do not know the syntax of the Nextflow language. Reusable processes provide modular workflows. Programmers will benefit from unique interactive features that help users work more productively with docker containers. We illustrate this tool with a workflow to estimate RNA-Seq counts using Kallisto. We found that beginners can be taught how to assemble this workflow in a two hours training session. NW workflows are portable and can execute on laptop/desktop computers with docker, on a lab cluster, or in the cloud to facilitate training. NextflowWorkbench is open-source and available at http://workflow.campagnelab.org.', u'Syndecans are conserved cell-surface receptors that function in multiple developmental contexts. We found that C. elegans with mutations in the single syndecan gene, sdn-1, exhibited errors in anterior-posterior axon growth and termination, including axons that stopped short of or grew past their stereotypical termination point. Transgenic rescue experiments indicated that syndecan function was cell non-autonomous for GABAergic axon outgrowth during early development, but likely cell autonomous to inhibit growth later in development. In regulating the posterior termination of the GABAergic motorneurons in the dorsal nerve cord, sdn-1 appeared to function to regulate the inhibitory activity of the egl-20/Wnt ligand. Over-expression of EGL-20 induced premature axon termination, and this was enhanced by loss of sdn-1. Conversely, removing egl-20 from sdn-1 mutants resulted in fewer animals with prematurely terminating dorsal nerve cords. The proteoglycan modifying enzymes hse-5 and hst-2, but not hst-6, had similar effects, suggesting specific heparan sulfate modifications regulated EGL-20 axon-terminating activity. sdn-1 appears to function with lin-17/Frizzled, bar-1/beta-catenin and the egl-5 Hox-like transcription factor in EGL-20-dependent axon outgrowth. We found that bar-1 was required for egl-5 expression in the most posterior GABAergic neurons. sdn-1 mutants had a more variable effect on egl-5 expression, but over-expression of egl-5 was able to partially rescue phenotypes caused by the loss of sdn-1. Overall our results suggest that syndecan is a component of a specific Wnt-signaling event that is necessary for axons to recognize appropriate termination points.', u'Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are pervasive neurodevelopmental disorders entailing social and cognitive deficits, including marked problems with language. Numerous genes have been associated with ASD, but it is unclear how language deficits arise from gene mutation or dysregulation. It is also unclear why ASD shows such high prevalence within human populations. Interestingly, the emergence of a modern faculty of language has been hypothesised to be linked to changes in the human brain/skull, but also to the process of self-domestication of the human species. It is our intention to show that people with ASD exhibit less marked domesticated traits at the morphological, physiological, and behavioural levels. We also discuss many ASD candidates represented among the genes known to be involved in the domestication syndrome (the constellation of traits exhibited by domesticated mammals, which seemingly results from the hypofunction of the neural crest) and among the set of genes involved in language function closely connected to them. Moreover, many of these genes show altered expression profiles in the brain of autists. In addition, some candidates for domestication and language-readiness show the same expression profile in people with ASD and chimps in different brain areas involved in language processing. Similarities regarding the brain oscillatory behaviour of these areas can be expected too. We conclude that ASD may represent an abnormal ontogenetic itinerary for the human faculty of language resulting in part from changes in genes important for the domestication syndrome and, ultimately, from the normal functioning of the neural crest.', u'Motivation: The highly portable Oxford Nanopore MinION sequencer has enabled new applications of genome sequencing directly in the field.  However, the MinION currently relies on a cloud computing platform, Metrichor (metrichor.com), for translating locally generated sequencing data into basecalls.\n\nResults: To allow offline and private analysis of MinION data, we created Nanocall. Nanocall is the first freely-available, open-source basecaller for Oxford Nanopore sequencing data and does not require an internet connection. On two ecoli and two human samples, with natural as well as PCR-amplified DNA, Nanocall reads have ~68% identity, directly comparable to Metrichor "1D" data. Further, Nanocall is efficient, processing ~500Kbp of sequence per core hour, and fully parallelized. Using 8 cores, Nanocall could basecall a MinION sequencing run in real time. Metrichor  provides the ability to integrate the "1D" sequencing of template and complement strands of a single DNA molecule, and create a "2D" read. Nanocall does not currently integrate this technology, and addition of this capability will be an important future development. In summary, Nanocall is the first open-source, freely available, off-line basecaller for Oxford Nanopore sequencing data.\n\nAvailability: Nanocall is available at github.com/mateidavid/nanocall, released under the MIT license.\n\nContact: matei.david at oicr.on.ca', u'The dense-core vesicle is a secretory organelle that mediates the regulated release of peptide hormones, growth factors, and biogenic amines. Dense-core vesicles originate from the trans-Golgi of neurons and neuroendocrine cells, but it is unclear how this specialized organelle is formed and acquires its specific cargos. To identify proteins that act in dense-core vesicle biogenesis, we performed a forward genetic screen in Caenorhabditis elegans for mutants defective in dense-core vesicle function. We previously reported the identification of two conserved proteins that interact with the small GTPase RAB-2 to control normal dense-core vesicle cargo-sorting. Here we identify several additional conserved factors important for dense-core vesicle cargo sorting: the WD40 domain protein EIPR-1 and the endosome-associated recycling protein (EARP) complex. By assaying behavior and the trafficking of dense-core vesicle cargos, we show that mutants that lack EIPR-1 or EARP have defects in dense-core vesicle cargo-sorting similar to those of mutants in the RAB-2 pathway. Genetic epistasis data indicate that RAB-2, EIPR-1 and EARP function in a common pathway. In addition, using a proteomic approach in rat insulinoma cells, we show that EIPR-1 physically interacts with the EARP complex. Our data suggest that EIPR-1 is a new component of the EARP complex and that dense-core vesicle cargo sorting depends on the EARP-dependent retrieval of cargo from an endosomal sorting compartment.', u'Present study explores the role of NADPH quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1) C609T (Pro187Ser) polymorphism in susceptibility to and its probable role in malignant potentiality of Oral submucous fibrosis (OSF)  a debilitating disease caused mainly by chewing arecanut. About 18% of the patients were detected with minor TT allele (Ser/Ser) p=0.026, while both CT (Pro/Ser) and TT (Ser/Ser) allele, p= 0.003 & 0.004 respectively, was found to be higher in patients above 40yrs of age. NQO1 protein was 42% reduced in buccal tissues of heterozygous (Pro/Ser) carriers, whereas a 70% reduction was observed in TT (Ser/Ser) patients. We detected the expression of p53 (Ser15) which is specifically produced in response to DNA damage and cyclin D1 (CCND1) to be related to NQO1 activity in buccal tissue of patients. A stabilized p53 (Ser15) and low CCND1 was evident in wild type (CC) patients. While a progressive MDM2 mediated degradation phospho p53 (Ser15) and increase in cyclin D1 expression was found in heterozygous (CT) or homozygous (TT) patients with carcinogenic lesions respectively. The present result identifies NQO1 C609T polymorphism as a potential risk in susceptibility to develop OSF. This also explains the event of carcinogenesis which may be attributed by MDM2 mediated degradation of p53 (Ser15) and for the first time reports role of this polymorphism in regulation of CCND1 and thus carcinogenesis of OSF.', u'There has been considerable interest and progress in our perception of organized complexity in recent years. Recurrent debates on the dynamics and stability of complex systems have enriched our understanding of these systems, but generalities in the relationship between structure and dynamics are hard to come by. Although traditionally an arena for theoreticians, much of this research has been invigorated by demonstration of the existence of alternate stable equilibria in real world ecosystems such as lakes, coral reefs, forests and grasslands. Linking up systems thinking with recent advances in our understanding of ecological networks opens up exciting possibilities. In an attempt to obtain general patterns of behaviour of complex systems, we have analyzed the response of eighty-six real world ecological networks to targeted extinctions, and the findings suggest that most networks are robust to loss of specialists until specific thresholds are reached in terms of geodesics. If the extinctions persist, a state change or flip occurs and the structural properties are altered drastically, although the network does not collapse. Further, we find that as opposed to simpler networks, larger networks have several such alternate states that ensure their long-term persistence and that indeed complexity does endow resilience to such networks. This is the first report of critical transitions in ecological networks and the implications of these findings for complex systems characterized by networks are likely to be profound with immediate significance in conservation biology, invasion biology and restoration ecology.', u'Many complex brain disorders, such as autism spectrum disorders, exhibit a wide range of symptoms and disability. To understand how brain communication is impaired in such conditions, functional connectivity studies seek to understand individual differences in brain network structure in terms of covariates that measure symptom severity. In practice, however, functional connectivity is not observed but estimated from complex and noisy neural activity measurements. Imperfect subject network estimates can compromise subsequent efforts to detect covariate effects on network structure. We address this problem in the case of Gaussian graphical models of functional connectivity, by proposing novel two-level models that treat both subject level networks and population level covariate effects as unknown parameters. To account for imperfectly estimated subject level networks when fitting these models, we propose two related approaches: R2 based on resampling and random effects test statistics, and R3 that additionally employs random adaptive penalization. Simulation studies using realistic graph structures reveal that R2 and R3have superior statistical power to detect covariate effects compared to existing approaches, particularly when the number of within subject observations is comparable to the size of subject networks. Using our novel models and methods to study parts of the ABIDE dataset, we find evidence of hypoconnectivity associated with symptom severity in autism spectrum disorders, in frontoparietal and limbic systems as well as in anterior and posterior cingulate cortices.', u'Analysis of the evolutionary conservation of amino acids is useful for the analysis of sequence variants detected in individuals with regard to possible impact on protein function.  Rapid advances in DNA sequencing technologies are enabling affordable access to SNPs, exome sequencing, and whole genome shotgun sequencing.  An understanding of the biological processes that have shaped diverging protein sequences aids the interpretation of sequence variants.  The divergence model of protein evolution is presented as a general framework for interpreting information available from comparative analysis of protein sequences.', u'The goal of this study was to survey optical and biochemical variation in cell populations deposited onto a surface through touch or contact and identify specific features that may be used to differentially label and then sort cell populations from separate contributors in a trace biological mixture. Cell characterizations initially focused on two different protein systems, Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) complex and cytokeratin (CK) filaments. Hybridization experiments using pan and allele-specific HLA antibody probes showed that surface antigens on cells transferred from the palmar surface of volunteers are largely unreactive, suggesting that they cannot be used to differentiate cell populations in a touch mixture. Touch samples were also hybridized with the pan-CK probe AE1, which targets CK proteins 10, 14, 15, 16 and 19. Fluorescence levels of AE1 hybridized cells were observed to vary across donors, although these differences were not consistent across all sampling days.  We then investigated variations in red autofluorescence profiles (650-670nm) as a potential signature for distinguishing contributor cell populations. Although distinct differences in red autofluorescence profiles were observed -- with one donor consistently exhibiting higher levels of fluorescence than others -- some variation was also observed in touch samples collected from the same individual on different days.  While this suggests that contributor touch samples cannot be defined by a discrete level of autofluorescence, this attribute may still be a useful means of isolating contributors to some touch mixtures. To test whether these observed optical differences could potentially be used as the basis for a cell separation workflow, a controlled two person touch mixture was separated into two fractions via Fluorescence Activated Cell Sorting (FACS) using gating criteria based on intensity of 650-670nm emissions, and then subjected to DNA analysis. STR typing of the sorted fractions', u"Single-molecule studies of protein-nucleic acid interactions frequently require site-specific modification of long DNA substrates. DNA isolated from bacteriophage \u03bb (\u03bb-DNA) is a convenient source of high quality long (48.5 kb) DNA. However, introducing specific DNA sequences, tertiary structures, and chemical modifications into \u03bb-DNA remains technically challenging. Most current approaches rely on multi-step ligations with low yields and incomplete products. Here, we describe a molecular toolkit for rapid preparation of modified \u03bb-DNA. A set of PCR cassettes facilitates the introduction of recombinant DNA sequences into \u03bb-DNA with 90-100% yield. Furthermore, various DNA structures and chemical modifications can be inserted at user-defined sites via an improved nicking enzyme-based strategy. As a proof-of-principle, we explore the interactions of Proliferating Cell Nuclear Antigen (PCNA) with modified DNA sequences and structures incorporated within lambda-DNA. Our results demonstrate that PCNA can load on both 5'-ssDNA flaps and a 13xCAG triplet repeat. However, PCNA remains trapped on the 13xCAG structure, confirming a proposed mechanism for triplet repeat expansion. Although we focus on \u03bb-DNA, this method is applicable to all long DNA substrates. We anticipate that this molecular toolbox will be broadly useful for both ensemble- and single-molecule studies that require site-specific modification of long DNA substrates.", u'Phase-amplitude coupling between theta and multiple gamma sub-bands hallmarks hippocampal activity and is believed to take part in information routing. More recently, theta and gamma oscillations were also reported to exhibit reliable phase-phase coupling, or n:m phase-locking. The existence of n:m phase-locking suggests an important mechanism of neuronal coding that has long received theoretical support. However, here we show that n:m phase-locking (1) is much lower than previously reported, (2) highly depends on epoch length, (3) does not statistically differ from chance (when employing proper surrogate methods), and that (4) filtered white noise has similar n:m scores as actual data. Moreover, (5) the diagonal stripes in theta-gamma phase-phase histograms of actual data can be explained by theta harmonics. These results point to lack of theta-gamma phase-phase coupling in the hippocampus, and suggest that studies investigating n:m phase-locking should rely on appropriate statistical controls, otherwise they could easily fall into analysis pitfalls.', u'Fusarium verticillioides is an agriculturally important fungus because of its association with maize and its propensity to contaminate grain with toxic compounds.  Some isolates of the fungus harbor a meiotic drive element known as Spore killer (SkK) that causes nearly all surviving meiotic progeny from an SkK X Spore killer-susceptible (SkS) cross to inherit the SkK allele.  SkK has been mapped to chromosome V but the genetic element responsible for meiotic drive and spore killing has yet to be identified.  In this study, we used cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence markers to genotype individual progeny from an SkK X SkS mapping population.  We also sequenced the genomes of three progeny from the mapping population to determine their single nucleotide polymorphisms.  These techniques allowed us to refine the location of SkK to a contiguous 102-kb region of chromosome V, herein referred to as the Sk locus.  Relative to SkS genotypes, SkK genotypes have one extra gene within this locus for a total of 42 genes.  The additional gene in SkK genotypes, named SKL1 for Spore Killer Locus 1, is the most highly expressed gene from the Sk locus during early stages of sexual development.  The Sk locus also has three hypervariable regions, the longest of which includes SKL1.  The possibility that SKL1, or another gene from the Sk locus, is an essential component of meiotic drive and spore killing is discussed.', u'The identification of genomic biomarkers is a key step towards improving diagnostic tests and therapies. We present a new reference-free method for this task that relies on a k-mer representation of genomes and a machine learning algorithm that produces intelligible models. The method is computationally scalable and well-suited for whole genome sequencing studies. The method was validated by generating models that predict the antibiotic resistance of C. difficile, M. tuberculosis, P. aeruginosa and S. pneumoniae. We show that the obtained models are accurate and that they highlight biologically relevant biomarkers, while providing insight into the process of antibiotic resistance acquisition.', u'Transcriptomes of individual neurons provide rich information about cell types and dynamic states. However, it is difficult to capture rare dynamic processes, such as adult neurogenesis, because isolation from dense adult tissue is challenging, and markers for each phase are limited. Here, we developed Div-Seq, which combines Nuc-Seq, a scalable single nucleus RNA-Seq method, with EdU-mediated labeling of proliferating cells. We first show that Nuc-Seq can sensitively identify closely related cell types within the adult hippocampus. We apply Div-Seq to track transcriptional dynamics of newborn neurons in an adult neurogenic region in the hippocampus. Finally, we find rare adult newborn GABAergic neurons in the spinal cord, a non-canonical neurogenic region. Taken together, Nuc-Seq and Div-Seq open the way for unbiased analysis of any complex tissue.', u'Initiation is a highly regulated, rate-limiting step in transcription.  We employed a series of approaches to examine the kinetics of RNA polymerase (RNAP) transcription initiation in greater detail.  Quenched kinetics assays, in combination with magnetic tweezer experiments and other methods, showed that, contrary to expectations, RNAP exit kinetics from later stages of initiation (e.g. from a 7-base transcript) was markedly slower than from earlier stages.  Further examination implicated a previously unidentified intermediate in which RNAP adopted a long-lived backtracked state during initiation.  In agreement, the RNAP-GreA endonuclease accelerated transcription kinetics from otherwise delayed initiation states and prevented RNAP backtracking.  Our results indicate a previously uncharacterized RNAP initiation state that could be exploited for therapeutic purposes and may reflect a conserved intermediate among paused, initiating eukaryotic enzymes.', u'DNA methylation can be faithfully inherited across generations in flowering plant genomes. Failure to properly maintain DNA methylation can lead to epigenetic variation and transposon reactivation. Plant genomes are dynamic, spanning large ranges in size and there is interplay between the genome and epigenome in shaping one another. To understand the variation in genomic patterning of DNA methylation between species, we compared methylomes of 34 diverse angiosperm species. By examining these variations in a phylogenetic context it becomes clear that there is extensive variation in mechanisms that govern gene body DNA methylation, euchromatic silencing of transposons and repeats, as well as silencing of heterochromatic transposons. Extensive variation is observed at all cytosine sequence contexts (CG, CHG and CHH, where H = A, C, T), with the Brassicaceae showing reduced CHG methylation levels and also reduced or loss of CG gene body methylation. The Poaceae are characterized by a lack or reduction of heterochromatic CHH methylation and enrichment of CHH methylation in genic regions. Reduced CHH methylation levels are found in clonally propagated species, suggesting that these methods of propagation may alter the epigenomic landscape over time, in the absence of sexual reproduction. These results show that DNA methylation targeting pathways have diverged functionally and that extant DNA methylation patterns are likely a reflection of the evolutionary and life histories of plant species.', u'Contact zones between marine ecotypes are of interest for understanding how key pelagic predators may react to climate change. We analysed the fine scale genetic structure and morphological variation in harbour porpoises around the UK, at the proposed northern limit of a contact zone between southern and northern ecotypes in the Bay of Biscay. Using a sample of 591 stranded animals spanning a decade and microsatellite profiling at 9 loci, clustering and spatial analyses revealed that animals stranded around UK are composed of mixed genetic ancestries from two genetic pools. Porpoises from SW England displayed a distinct genetic ancestry, had larger body-sizes and inhabit an environment differentiated from other UK costal areas. Genetic ancestry blends from one group to the other along a SW-NE axis along the UK coastline, and showed a significant association with body size, consistent with morphological differences between the two ecotypes and their mixing around the SW coast. We also found significant isolation-by-distance among juveniles, suggesting that stranded juveniles display reduced intergenerational dispersal, while adults show larger variance. The fine scale structure of this admixture zone raises the question of how it will respond to future climate change and provides a reference point for further study.', u'Spiritual practices are gaining an increasingly wider audience as a means to enhance positive affect in healthy individuals and to treat neurological disorders such as anxiety and depression. The current study aimed to examine the neural correlates of two different forms of love generated by spiritual practices using EEG; love generated during a loving kindness meditation performed by Buddhist meditators, and love generated during prayer, in a separate group of participants from a Christian-based faith. The loving kindness meditation was associated with significant increases in delta, alpha 1, alpha 2 and beta power compared to baseline, while prayer induced significant increases in power of alpha 1 and gamma oscillations, together with an increase in the gamma: theta ratio. An increase in delta activity occurred during the loving kindness meditation but not during prayer. In contrast increases in theta, alpha 1, alpha 2, beta and gamma power were observed when comparing both types of practice to baseline, suggesting that increases in these frequency bands are the neural correlates of spiritual love, independent of the type of practice used to attain the state of this type of love. These findings show that both spiritual love practices are associated with widespread changes in neural activity across the brain, in particular at frequency ranges that have been implicated in positive emotional experience, integration of distributed neural activity, and changes in short-term and long-term neural circuitry.', u'The ability to monitor and manipulate epiblast cells in and around the primitive streak of the mouse embryo is important for investigating how cells maintain potency and how distinct cell fates are established. Here, we report development of a key resource for such studies, a mouse line in which a tamoxifen-inducible Cre recombinase construct replaces an endogenous gene, Nkx1.2, whose expression demarcates the epiblast adjacent to and including the primitive streak. We show that this Nkx1.2CreERT2 line drives transgene expression in the endogenous Nkx1.2 domain. Labelling this caudal epiblast cell population at embryonic day (E) 7.5 confirmed contribution to all three germ layers at later stages. Labelled cells were also retained within the caudal lateral epiblast at E8.5 and E9.5 and E10.5 tailbud. A subset of these cells co-expressed early neural (Sox2) and mesodermal (Bra) markers. These findings support the existence of neuromesodermal progenitors within the Nkx1.2 cell lineage. Consistent with the retention of such bipotent progenitors throughout body axis elongation, labelling Nkx1.2-expressing cells at E10.5 and assessment at E11.5 demonstrated continued contribution to both neural and mesodermal lineages. Furthermore, detailed analysis of Nkx1.2 expression revealed a novel domain in tailbud mesenchyme that is contiguous with neural tissue. The presence of labelled Sox2/Bra co-expressing cells in this mesenchyme cell population suggests that this is the retained neuromesodermal progenitor pool, which gives rise to both new paraxial mesoderm and new neural tissue, generated now via secondary neurulation. Here, we introduce this caudal-most Nkx1.2 domain as the neuromesodermal lip.', u'Neural models of face perception implicate a network of regions in the ventral visual stream for recognition of identity. In this fMRI neural decoding study we report that this pathway culminates in a right inferior frontal face area (rIFFA) in humans where representations of identities have been disentangled from variable visual features in different views of the same person. Representations in early visual cortex and the occipital face area distinguish head views, invariant across identities. An intermediate level of representation in the fusiform face area distinguishes identities but still is entangled with head view. View-invariant representation of identities emerges in the rIFFA providing a critical link to the extended face perception system, affording activation of person knowledge and emotional responses to familiar faces.', u'In this paper, we introduce mathematical aspect of recruitment and derecruitment mechanism of blood vessels  acting in such a way as to preserve physiological values of the capillary pressure and  perspective of pressure drop effect which has been pointed out by a series of studies documenting a paradoxical vasoconstriction during ischaemia.', u'We propose an integrative framework to select important genetic and epigenetic features related to ovarian cancer and to quantify the causal relationships among these features using a logistic Bayesian network model based on The Cancer Genome Atlas data. The constructed Bayesian network has identified four gene clusters of distinct cellular functions, 13 driver genes, as well as some new biological pathways which may shed new light into the molecular mechanisms of ovarian cancer.', u'A large number of modular domains that exhibit specific lipid binding properties are present in many membrane proteins involved in trafficking and signal transduction.  These domains are present in either eukaryotic peripheral membrane or transmembrane proteins and are responsible for the non-covalent interactions of these proteins with membrane lipids.  Here we report a profile Hidden Markov Model based method capable of detecting Membrane Binding Proteins (MBPs) from information encoded in their amino acid sequence, called MBPpred.  The method identifies MBPs that contain one or more of the Membrane Binding Domains (MBDs) that have been described to date, and further classifies these proteins based on their position in respect to the membrane, either as peripheral or transmembrane.  MBPpred is available online at http://bioinformatics.biol.uoa.gr/MBPpred.  This method was applied in selected eukaryotic proteomes, in order to examine the characteristics they exhibit in various eukaryotic kingdoms and phylums.', u'To examine the role of natural selection on fecundity in a variety ofCaenorhabditis elegans\ngenetic backgrounds, we used an experimental evolution protocol to evolve 14 distinct genetic\nstrains over 15-20 generations. Beginning with three founder worms for each strain, we were able\nto generate 790 distinct genealogies, which provided information on both the effects of natural\nselection and the evolvability of each strain. Among these genotypes are a wildtype (N2) and a\ncollection of mutants with targeted mutations in the daf-c, daf-d, and AMPK pathways. The\noverarching goal of our analysis is two-fold: to observe differences in reproductive fitness and\nobserve related changes in reproductive timing. This yields two outcomes. The first is that the\nmajority of selective effects on fecundity occur during the first few generations of evolution, while\nthe negative selection for reproductive timing occurs on longer timescales. The second finding\nreveals that positive selection on fecundity results in positive and negative selection on\nreproductive timing, both of which are strain-dependent. Using a derivative of population size per\ngeneration called the reproductive carry-over (RCO) measure, it is found that the fluctuation and\nshape of the probability distribution may be informative in terms of developmental selection.\nWhile these consist of general patterns that transcend mutations in a specific gene, changes in the RCO measure may nevertheless be products of selection. In conclusion, we discuss the broader\nimplications of these findings, particularly in the context of genotype-fitness maps and the role of\nuncharacterized mutations in individual variation and evolvability.', u"Assigning 16S rRNA gene sequences to operational taxonomic units (OTUs) allows microbial ecologists to overcome the inconsistencies and biases within bacterial taxonomy and provides a strategy for clustering similar sequences that do not have representatives in a reference database. I have applied the Matthew's correlation coefficient to assess the ability of 15 reference-independent and -dependent clustering algorithms to assign sequences to OTUs. This metric quantifies the ability of an algorithm to reflect the relationships between sequences without the use of a reference and can be applied to any dataset or method. The most consistently robust method was the average neighbor algorithm; however, for some datasets other algorithms matched its performance.", u'With the increasing availability of functional genomic data, incorporating genomic annotations into genetic association analysis has become a standard procedure.  However, the existing methods often lack rigor and/or computational efficiency and consequently do not maximize the utility of functional annotations.  In this paper, we propose a rigorous inference procedure to perform integrative association analysis incorporating genomic annotations for both traditional GWAS and emerging molecular QTL mapping studies.  In particular, we propose an algorithm, named ``Deterministic Approximation of Posteriors" (DAP), which enables highly efficient and accurate joint enrichment analysis and identification of multiple causal variants. We use a series of simulation studies to highlight the power and computational efficiency of our proposed approach and further demonstrate it by analyzing the cross-population eQTL data from the GEUVADIS project and the multi-tissue eQTL data from the GTEx project. In particular, we find that genetic variants predicted to disrupt transcription factor binding sites are enriched in cis-eQTLs across all tissues. Moreover, the enrichment estimates obtained across the tissues are correlated with the cell types for which the annotations are derived. The software package implementing the computational approach (including a detailed tutorial) is freely available at https://github.com/xqwen/dap.', u"Despite their small size, insect brains are able to produce robust and efficient navigation in complex environments. Specifically in social insects, such as ants and bees, these navigational capabilities are guided by orientation directing vectors generated by a process called path integration. During this process, they integrate compass and odometric cues to estimate their current location as a vector, called home vector for guiding them back home on a straight path. They further acquire and retrieve path integration-based vector memories anchored globally to the nest or visual landmarks. Although existing computational models reproduced similar behaviors, they largely neglected evidence for possible neural substrates underlying the generated behavior. Therefore, we present here a model of neural mechanisms in a modular closed-loop control - enabling vector navigation in embodied agents. The model consists of a path integration mechanism, reward-modulated global and local vector learning, random search, and action selection. The path integration mechanism integrates compass and odometric cues to compute a vectorial representation of the agent's current location as neural activity patterns in circular arrays. A reward-modulated learning rule enables the acquisition of vector memories by associating the local food reward with the path integration state. A motor output is computed based on the combination of vector memories and random exploration. In simulation, we show that the neural mechanisms enable robust homing and localization, even in the presence of external sensory noise. The proposed learning rules lead to goal-directed navigation and route formation performed under realistic conditions. This provides an explanation for, how view-based navigational strategies are guided by path integration. Consequently, we provide a novel approach for vector learning and navigation in a simulated embodied agent linking behavioral observations to their possible underlying neural substrates.", u'Preprints, non-peer reviewed drafts of manuscripts available on the internet, have been used in conjunction with peer review and publication in journals in the physical sciences for almost 25 years. Recently, more scientists have been discussing whether preprints can play a similar role in biological and biomedical research. Here, I discuss my excitement and concerns about the role that preprints can play in disseminating research findings in the life sciences.', u'Recombination in ancient, heteromorphic sex chromosomes is typically suppressed at the sex-determining region (SDR) and proportionally elevated in the pseudoautosomal region (PAR). However, little is known about recombination dynamics of young, homomorphic plant sex chromosomes. We examine male and female function in crosses and unrelated samples of the dioecious octoploid strawberry Fragaria chiloensis in order to map the small and recently evolved SDR controlling both traits and to examine recombination patterns on the incipient ZW chromosome. The SDR of this ZW system is located within a 280kb window, in which the maternal recombination rate is lower than the paternal. In contrast to the SDR, the maternal PAR recombination rate is much higher than the rates of the paternal PAR or autosomes, culminating in an elevated chromosome-wide rate. W-specific divergence is elevated within the SDR and a single polymorphism is observed in high species-wide linkage disequilibrium with sex. Selection for recombination suppression within the small SDR may be weak, but fluctuating sex ratios could favor elevated recombination in the PAR to remove deleterious mutations on the W. The recombination dynamics of this nascent sex chromosome with a modestly diverged SDR may be typical of other dioecious plants.', u'Summary: Visualizing and summarizing data from genomic studies continues to be a challenge. Here we introduce the GenVisR package to addresses this challenge by providing highly customizable, publication-quality graphics focused on cohort level genome analyses. GenVisR provides a rapid and easy-to-use suite of genomic visualization tools, while maintaining a high degree of flexibility by leveraging the abilities of ggplot2 and bioconductor.\nAvailability and Implementation: GenVisR is an R package available via bioconductor (https://bioconductor.org/packages/GenVisR) under GPLv3. Support is available via GitHub (https://github.com/griffithlab/GenVisR/issues) and the Bioconductor support website.', u'Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA) is caused by deletion or mutation of the Survival Motor Neuron 1 gene (SMN1), but the mechanism whereby reduced levels of SMN protein lead to disease is unknown. SMN functions in the assembly of spliceosomal small nuclear ribonucleoproteins (snRNPs) and potential splicing defects have been uncovered in various animal models of SMA. We used disruptions in Smn and two additional snRNP biogenesis genes, Phax and Ars2, to classify RNA processing differences as snRNP-dependent or Smn gene specific in Drosophila. Although more numerous, the processing changes in Ars2 mutants were generally distinct from those identified in Phax and Smn animals. Phax and Smn null mutants exhibited comparable reductions in steady-state snRNA levels, and direct comparison of their transcriptomes uncovered a shared set of alternative splicing changes. Transgenic expression of Phax and Smn in the respective mutant backgrounds significantly rescued both snRNA levels as well as alternative splicing. When compared to the Smn wild-type rescue line, three additional disease models (bearing SMA-causing point mutations in Smn) displayed only small-to-indistinguishable differences in snRNA levels and the identified splicing disruptions. Comparison of these intermediate SMA models revealed fewer than 10% shared splicing differences. Instead, the three Smn point mutants displayed common increases in stress responsive transcripts that correlated with phenotypic severity. These findings uncouple organismal viability defects from the general housekeeping function of SMN and suggest that SMN-specific changes in gene expression may be important for understanding how loss of SMN ultimately causes disease.', u'Proteins localized to mitochondria by a carboxyl-terminal tail anchor (TA) play roles in apoptosis, mitochondrial dynamics, and mitochondrial protein import. To reveal characteristics of TAs that are important for mitochondrial targeting, we examined the TA of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae Fis1 protein. We generated a library of Fis1p TA variants fused to the Gal4 transcription factor, then selected for mutations allowing Gal4 activity in the nucleus. Next-generation sequencing allowed quantification of TA variants in our mutant library both before and after selection for loss of TA targeting. High-throughput results were confirmed by further analysis of individual Fis1p TA mutants. Intriguingly, positively charged residues were more acceptable at several positions within the membrane-associated domain of the Fis1p TA than negatively charged residues. These findings provide strong, in vivo evidence that lysine and arginine can "snorkel" when associated with a lipid bilayer and place their terminal charges at the membrane interface. Our work provides the first high-resolution analysis of an organelle targeting sequence by deep mutational scanning.', u"Background\nCollective animal behavior such as the flocking of birds or the shoaling of fish has inspired a class of algorithms designed to optimize distance-based clusters in various applications including document analysis and DNA microarrays. In the flocking model, individual agents respond only to their immediate environment and move according to a few simple rules. After several iterations the agents self-organize and clusters emerge without the need for partitional seeds. In addition to their unsupervised nature, flocking offers several computational advantages including the potential to decrease the number of required comparisons. \n\nFindings\nIn Clusterflock, we implement a flocking algorithm designed to find groups (flocks) of orthologous gene families (OGFs) that share a common evolutionary history. Pairwise distances that measure the phylogenetic incongruence between OGFs guide flock formation. We test this approach on several simulated datasets varying the number of underlying topologies, the proportion of missing data, and evolutionary rates, and show that in datasets containing high levels of missing data and rate heterogeneity, clusterflock outperforms other well-established clustering techniques. We also demonstrate its utility on a known, large-scale recombination event in Staphylococcus aureus. By isolating sets of OGFs with divergent phylogenetic signal, we can pinpoint the recombined region without forcing a pre-determined number of groupings or defining a pre-determined incongruence threshold.  \n\nConclusions\nClusterflock is an open source tool that can be used to discover horizontally transferred genes, recombining areas of chromosomes, and the phylogenetic 'core' of a genome. Though we use it in an evolutionary context, it is generalizable to any clustering problem. Users can write extensions to calculate any distance metric on the unit interval and use these distances to flock any type of data.", u"The case-control association study is a powerful method for identifying genetic variants that influence disease risk. However, the collection of cases can be time-consuming and expensive; in some situations it is more practical to identify family members of cases. We show that replacing cases with their first-degree relatives enables genome-wide association studies by proxy (GWAX). In randomly-ascertained cohorts, this approach enables previously infeasible studies of diseases that are rare in the cohort, and can increase power to detect association by up to 30% for diseases that are more common in the cohort. As an illustration, we performed GWAX of 12 common diseases in 116,196 individuals from the UK Biobank. By combining these results with published GWAS summary statistics in a meta-analysis, we replicated established risk loci and identified 17 newly associated risk loci: four in Alzheimer's disease, eight in coronary artery disease, and five in type 2 diabetes. In addition to informing disease biology, our results demonstrate the utility of association mapping using family history of disease as a phenotype to be mapped. We anticipate that this approach will prove useful in future genetic studies of complex traits in large population cohorts.", u'Environmental variation can maintain genetic variation in sexually selected traits if it affects the strength of directional selection. Specifically, environmental variation in sex-specific mortality will change the operational sex ratio (OSR), which predicts the intensity of mating competition. How the OSR affects selection for specific male traits is poorly understood; and it is unknown how often sexual selection is affected by interactions between the OSR and environmental factors that alter social variables such as mate encounter rates. Here, we experimentally manipulated the OSR and habitat complexity and quantified sexual selection on male mosquitofish (Gambusia holbrooki). In G. holbrooki there is high within-population variation in male size, which may exist because of a trade-off between the ability to sneak copulate (favouring small males) and monopolize females (favouring large males).  The success of each tactic is predicted to depend on the OSR, encounter rates and the ability to stealthily approach conspecifics. We show that, despite greater sharing of paternity under a male-biased OSR, neither the opportunity for selection, nor selection on male traits was affected by the OSR or habitat complexity. Instead, sexual selection consistently favored smaller males with high genetic heterozygosity (using >3000 SNP markers), and a relatively long gonopodium (intromittent organ).', u'Microtubules are dynamic polymers of \u03b1\u03b2-tubulin that have essential roles in chromosome segregation and organizing the cytoplasm. Catastrophe - the switch from growing to shrinking - occurs when a microtubule loses its stabilizing GTP cap. Recent evidence indicates that the nucleotide on the microtubule end controls how tightly an incoming subunit will be bound (trans-acting GTP), but most current models do not incorporate this information. We implemented trans-acting GTP into a computational model for microtubule dynamics. In simulations, growing microtubules often exposed terminal GDP-bound subunits without undergoing catastrophe. Transient GDP exposure on the growing plus end slowed elongation by reducing the number of favorable binding sites on the microtubule end. Slower elongation led to erosion of the GTP cap and an increase in the frequency of catastrophe. Allowing GDP to GTP exchange on terminal subunits in simulations mitigated these effects. Using mutant \u03b1\u03b2-tubulin or modified GTP, we showed experimentally that a more readily exchangeable nucleotide led to less frequent catastrophe. Current models for microtubule dynamics do not account for GDP to GTP exchange on the growing microtubule end, so our findings provide a new way of thinking about the molecular events that initiate catastrophe.', u"Duplicating chromosomes once each cell cycle produces sister chromatid pairs, which separate accurately at anaphase. In contrast, reduplicating chromosomes without separation frequently produces polytene chromosomes, a barrier to accurate mitosis. Chromosome reduplication occurs in many contexts, including: polytene tissue development, polytene tumors, and following treatment with mitosis-blocking chemotherapeutics. However, mechanisms responding to or resolving polyteny during mitosis are poorly understood. Here, using Drosophila, we uncover two distinct reduplicated chromosome responses. First, when reduplicated polytene chromosomes persist into metaphase, an anaphase delay prevents tissue malformation and apoptosis. Second, reduplicated polytene chromosomes can also separate prior to metaphase through a spindle-independent mechanism termed Separation-Into-Recent-Sisters (SIRS). Both reduplication responses require the spindle assembly checkpoint protein Mad2. While Mad2 delays anaphase separation of metaphase polytene chromosomes, Mad2's control of overall mitotic timing ensures efficient SIRS. Our results pinpoint mechanisms enabling continued proliferation after genome reduplication, a finding with implications for cancer progression and prevention.", u"Although there are many correlational studies, unbiased estimates of inbreeding depression only come from experimental studies that create inbred and outbred individuals. Few such studies determine the extent to which inbreeding depression in males is due to natural or sexual selection. Importantly, traits that are closely related to fitness are predicted to be most strongly affected by inbreeding depression, so measuring fitness or key fitness components, rather than phenotypic traits, is necessary to estimate inbreeding depression accurately. Here, we experimentally created inbred and outbred male mosquitofish (Gambusia holbrooki) by mating full-sibs (f=0.25). We show this led to a 23% reduction in genome-wide heterozygosity. Males were then raised on different diets early in life. We then allowed adult males to compete freely for females to test if inbreeding, early diet, and their interaction affect a male's share of paternity. Early diet had no effect on paternity, but outbred males sired almost twice as many offspring as inbred males. We also found that males with a relatively long gonopodium (intromittent organ) had greater reproductive success. We demonstrate that inbreeding has important consequences because it negatively affects a key component of male fitness. Given there was no difference in adult mortality this finding can only be due to inbreeding negatively affecting sexually selected traits.", u"Conditions experienced early in life can affect key life-history traits. Individuals that experience a poor nutritional environment early in life can reduce potential costs by delaying sexual maturation. The direct costs of delaying maturation are well known (i.e. delayed onset of breeding), but individuals can also face additional costs as adults. Some of these 'hidden costs' accrue due to cryptic morphological and physiological changes. In mosquitofish (Gambusia holbrooki), males with limited food intake early in life delay maturation to eventually reach a similar adult body size to their well-fed counterparts ('catch-up growth'). Here we tested whether a poor diet early in life incurs hidden costs due to reduced expression of sexually selected male traits (genital size and ejaculate traits). We found that diet early in life significantly influenced sperm reserves and replenishment rate due to age and development-rate dependent effects. Although catching-up in body size ameliorates some of the costs of a poor start in life for males, our findings suggest that long-term fitness costs might arise because of sexually selection against these males. Our results highlight that fitness costs of a poor start in life can extend into adulthood.", u"Circulating cytokines and growth factors are regulators of inflammation and have been implicated in autoimmune and metabolic diseases. In this genome-wide association study (GWAS) up to n=8,293 Finns we identified 27 loci with genome-wide association (P-value<1.2\xd710-9) for one or more cytokines, including 17 unidentified in previous GWASes. Fifteen of the associated SNPs had expression quantitative trait loci in whole blood. We provide strong genetic instruments to clarify the causal roles of cytokine signaling and upstream inflammation in immune-related and other chronic diseases. We further link known autoimmune disease variants including Crohn's disease, multiple sclerosis and ulcerative colitis with new inflammatory markers, which elucidate the molecular mechanisms underpinning these diseases and suggest potential drug targets.", u'PURPOSE: Evaluation of 12 ccRCC publicly-available ccRCC gene expression datasets showed that previously proposed discrete molecular subtypes are unstable. To reflect the continuous nature of gene expression observed, we developed a quantitative score (Continuous Linear Enhanced Assessment of Renal cell carcinoma, or CLEAR) using expression analysis founded on pathologic parameters.\nMATERIALS AND METHODS: 265 ccRCC gene expression profiles were used to develop the CLEAR score, representing a genetic correlate of the continuum of morphological tumor grade. A signature derivation method based on correlation of CLEAR score with gene expression ranking was used to derive an 18-transcript signature. External validation was conducted in multiple public expression datasets.\nResults: As a measure of intertumoral gene expression heterogeneity, the CLEAR score demonstrated both superior prognostic estimates (94% vs 83% adequacy index in TCGA dataset) and inverse correlation with anti-angiogenic tyrosine-kinase inhibition (65% vs 55% adequacy index) in comparison to previously proposed discrete subtyping classifications. Inverse correlation with high-dose interleukin-2 outcomes was also observed for the CLEAR score (p=0.05). Multiple somatic mutations (VHL, PBRM1, SETD2, KDM5C, TP53, BAP1, PTEN, MTOR) were associated with the CLEAR score. Application of the CLEAR score to independent expression profiling of intratumoral ccRCC regions demonstrated its ability to reflect intratumoral expression heterogeneity and further analysis showed average intertumoral heterogeneity exceeded intratumoral heterogeneity.\nConclusions: The CLEAR score, a gene expression signature developed on histopathology, outperformed discrete subtype-classification in prognostic estimates and correlated better with treatment outcomes. Recognizing cancer as a continuum has important implications for laboratory and clinical research.', u'Fungi interact closely with bacteria both on the surfaces of hyphae, and within their living tissues (i.e., endohyphal bacteria, EHB). These EHB can be obligate or facultative symbionts, and can mediate a diverse phenotypic traits in their hosts. Although EHB have been observed in many major lineages of fungi, it remains unclear how widespread and general these associations are, and whether there are unifying ecological and genomic features found across all EHB strains. We cultured 11 bacterial strains after they emerged from the hyphae of diverse Ascomycota that were isolated as foliar endophytes of cupressaceous trees, and generated nearly complete genome sequences for all. Unlike the genomes of largely obligate EHB, genomes of these facultative EHB resemble those of closely related strains isolated from environmental sources. Although all analyzed genomes encode structures that can be used to interact with eukaryotic hosts, we find no known pathways that facilitate intimate EHB-fungal interactions in all strains. We isolated two strains with nearly identical genomes from different classes of fungi, consistent with previous suggestions of horizontal transfer of EHB across endophytic hosts. Because bacteria are differentially present during the fungal life cycle, these genomes could shed light on the mechanisms of plant growth promotion by fungal endophytes during the symbiotic phase as well as degradation of plant material during saprotrophic and reproductive phases. Given the capacity of EHB to influence fungal phenotypes, these findings illuminate a new dimension of fungal biodiversity.', u'Background\nUnderstanding how leukocytes in the cervicovaginal and colorectal mucosae respond to pathogens, and how medical interventions affect these responses, is important for developing better tools to prevent HIV and other sexually transmitted infections. An effective cryopreservation protocol for these cells following their isolation will make studying them more feasible.\n\nMethods and findings\nTo find an optimal cryopreservation protocol for mucosal mononuclear leukocytes, we compared cryopreservation media and procedures using human vaginal leukocytes and confirmed our results with endocervical and colorectal leukocytes. Specifically, we measured the recovery of viable vaginal T cells and macrophages after cryopreservation with different cryopreservation media and handling procedures. We found several cryopreservation media that led to recoveries above 75%. Limiting the number and volume of washes increased the fraction of cells recovered by 10-15%, possibly due to the small cell numbers in mucosal samples. We confirmed that our cryopreservation protocol also works well for both endocervical and colorectal leukocytes. Cryopreserved leukocytes had slightly increased cytokine responses to antigenic stimulation relative to the same cells tested fresh. Additionally, we tested whether it is better to cryopreserve endocervical cells on the cytobrush or in suspension.\n\nConclusions\nLeukocytes from cervicovaginal and colorectal tissues can be cryopreserved with good recovery of functional, viable cells using several different cryopreservation media. The number and volume of washes has an experimentally meaningful effect on the percentage of cells recovered. We provide a detailed, step-by-step protocol with best practices for cryopreservation of mucosal leukocytes.', u'Reciprocal coevolving interactions between hosts and parasites are a primary source of strong selection that can promote rapid and often population- or genotype-specific evolutionary change. These host-parasite interactions are also a major source of disease. Despite their importance, very little is known about the genomic basis of coevolving host-parasite interactions, particularly in nature. Here, we use gene expression and molecular sequence evolution approaches to take critical steps towards characterizing the genomic basis of interactions between the freshwater snail Potamopyrgus antipodarum and its coevolving sterilizing trematode parasite, Microphallus sp., a textbook example of natural coevolution. We found that Microphallus-infected P. antipodarum exhibit systematic downregulation of genes relative to uninfected P. antipodarum. The specific genes involved in parasite response differ markedly across lakes, consistent with a scenario where population-level coevolution is leading to population-specific host-parasite interactions and evolutionary trajectories. We also identified a set of rapidly evolving loci that present promising candidates for targets of parasite-mediated selection across lakes as well as within each lake population. These results constitute the first genomic evidence for population-specific responses to coevolving infection in the P. antipodarum-Microphallus interaction and provide new insights into the genomic basis of coevolutionary interactions in nature.', u'Genetic diversity is shaped by the interaction of drift and selection, but the details of this interaction are not well understood. The impact of genetic drift in a population is largely determined by its demographic history, typically summarized by its long-term effective population size (Ne). Rapidly changing population demographics complicate this relationship, however. To better understand how changing demography impacts selection, we used whole-genome sequencing data to investigate patterns of linked selection in domesticated and wild maize (teosinte). We produce the first whole-genome estimate of the demography of maize domestication, showing that maize was reduced to approximately 5% the population size of teosinte before it experienced rapid expansion post-domestication to population sizes much larger than its ancestor. Evaluation of patterns of nucleotide diversity in and near genes shows little evidence of selection on beneficial amino acid substitutions, and that the domestication bottleneck led to a decline in the efficiency of purifying selection in maize. Young alleles, however, show evidence of much stronger purifying selection in maize, reflecting the much larger effective size of present day populations. Our results demonstrate that recent demographic change -- a hallmark of many species including both humans and crops -- can have immediate and wide-ranging impacts on diversity that conflict with would-be expectations based on Ne alone.', u'The aging process in most organisms is enormously complex, involving a multitude of integrated molecular pathways that define and modulate the gradual cellular, tissue and system-level changes that evoke the aging phenotype. Despite this sophistication, the root causes underlying the susceptibility of an organism to aging may be comparatively straightforward. Here, I posit that organismal aging can be explained using a three-legged framework derived from established principles of physics (nonequilibrium thermodynamics and Newtonian), evolutionary theory, and information theory. I suggest that this logic also demonstrates that aging is biologically inevitable. It is argued here that stipulations derived from the second law of thermodynamics and Newtonian mechanics may be critical in defining evolutionary fitness landscapes that vary according to the ability of the organism to resist the loss of data in information-encoding biomolecules (DNA), and in some organisms possibly other biocomponents subject to irreversible fidelity loss, and that this may largely explain the differences in longevity amongst many organisms.', u'We found a rice dominant genetic male sterile mutant OsDMS-1 from the tissue culture regenerated offspring of Zhonghua 11 (japonica rice). Compared to wild Zhonghua 11, OsDMS-1 mutant anthers were thinner and whiter, and could not release any pollen although the glume opened normally; most of the mutant pollen was small and malformed, and could not be stained by iodine treatment; a paraffin section assay showed the degradation of OsDMS-1 mutant tapetum was delayed, with no accumulation of starch in the mutant pollen, ultimately leading to pollen abortion. Classical genetic analysis indicated that only one dominant gene was controlling the sterility in the OsDMS-1 mutant. However, molecular mapping suggested three loci simultaneously control male sterility in this mutant: OsDMS-1A, flanked by InDel markers C1D4 and C1D5 with a genetic distance of 0.15 and 0.30 cM, respectively; OsDMS-1B, flanked by InDel markers C2D3 and C2D10 with a genetic distance of 0.44 and 0.88 cM, respectively; OsDMS-1C, flanked by InDel markers 0315 and C3D3 with a genetic distance of 0.44 and 0.88 cM, respectively. Molecular mapping disagreed with classical genetic analysis about the number of controlling genes in the OsDMS-1 mutant, indicating a novel mechanism underlying sterility in OsDMS-1. We present two hypotheses to explain this novel inheritance behavior: one is described as Parent Originated Loci Tying Inheritance (POLTI); or the hypothesis is described as Loci Recombination Lethal (LRL).', u'The pacific islands of Micronesia have experienced several outbreaks of mosquito-borne diseases over the past decade. Since these outbreaks occurred in confined island populations, their analysis can improve our understanding of the transmission dynamics of the pathogens involved, and particularly so for yet understudied pathogens such as Zika virus. Here, we compare three outbreaks of dengue and Zika virus in two different island settings in Micronesia, the Yap Main Islands and Fais, using a mathematical model of transmission dynamics, making full use of commonalities in disease and setting between the outbreaks. We found that the estimated reproduction numbers for Zika and dengue are similar when considered in the same setting, but that, conversely, reproduction number for the same disease can vary considerably by setting. On the Yap Main Islands, we estimate a mean reproduction number of 4.3 (95% credible interval 3.1-6.1) for the dengue outbreak and 4.8 (2.9-8.1) for the Zika outbreak, whereas for the dengue outbreak on Fais our mean estimate is 10 (5.5-18). We further found that the ranges of most disease-specific parameters largely overlap between dengue and Zika, but that reporting rates of Zika cases are much smaller (3%, 1-7) than those of dengue (68%, 43-98). These results suggests that models for dengue transmission can be useful for estimating the predicted dynamics of Zika transmission, but care must be taken when extrapolating findings from one setting to another. Field studies on differences in vector density and biting exposure, as well as comparative modelling studies in other settings, could yield important further insights into the relationship between the transmission dynamics of Zika and dengue, and the specific setting in which they occur.', u'Long noncoding RNAs have emerged as abundant and important regulators of gene expression in diverse animals. In D. melanogaster several lncRNAs involved in regulating Hox gene expression in the Bithorax Complex have been reported. However, no functional Hox long noncoding RNAs have been described in the Antennapedia Complex. Here we have characterized a long noncoding RNA lincX from the Antennapedia Complex, that is transcribed from previously identified cis-regulatory sequences of the Hox gene Sex combs reduced (Scr). We use both the GAL4-UAS system and mutants to ectopically overexpress the lincX RNA from exogenous and endogenous loci respectively, in order to dissect the potential regulatory functions of lincX RNA versus lincX transcription. Our findings suggest that transcription through the lincX locus, but not the lincX RNA itself, may facilitate initiation of Scr in cis in the early embryo. Transvection phenomena, where regulatory sequences on one chromosome can affect expression on the homolog, have previously been reported in genetic studies of Scr. By analysing lincX and Scr nascent transcriptional sites in embryos heterozygous for a gain of function mutation, we directly visualize this transvection, and observe that the ectopic lincX transcriptional state appears to be relayed in trans to the homologous wild-type chromosome. This trans-activation of lincX correlates with both ectopic activation of Scr in cis, and increased chromosomal proximity. Our results are consistent with a model whereby early long noncoding RNA transcription through cis-regulatory sequences can be communicated between chromosomes, and facilitates long-range initiation of Hox gene expression in cis.', u'Resveratrol has gained tremendous interest owing to multiple reported healthbeneficial\neffects. However, the underlying key mechanism of action of resveratrol\nremained largely controversial. Here, we demonstrate that under physiologically\nrelevant conditions major biological effects of resveratrol can be attributed to the\ngeneration of oxidation products such as reactive oxygen species (ROS). At low\nhormetic concentrations (< 50 \u03bcM), treatment with resveratrol increased cell viability\nin a set of representative cell models, whereas application of quenchers of ROS\ncompletely truncated these beneficial effects. Notably, application of resveratrol led\nto mild, Nrf2-specific cellular gene expression reprogramming. For example, in\nprimary human epidermal keratinocytes this resulted in a 1.3-fold increase of\nendogenous metabolites such as gluthathione (GSH) and subsequently in a\nquantitative reduction of the cellular redox environment by 2.61 mV mmol GSH (g\nprotein)-1. In particular in resveratrol pre-treated cells, after external application of\noxidative stress by using 0.8 % ethanol, endogenous ROS generation was\nconsequently reduced by 24 %. In contrast to the common perception that resveratrol\nacts mainly as a chemical antioxidant or as a target protein-specific ligand, we\npropose that effects from resveratrol treatment are essentially based on oxidative\ntriggering of cells. In relevant physiological microenvironments this effect can lead to\nhormetic shifting of cellular defence towards a more reductive state to improve\nresilience to oxidative stress in a manner that can be exactly defined by the redoxenvironment\nof the cell.', u'In plants, CG DNA methylation is prevalent in the transcribed regions of many constitutively expressed genes (gene body methylation; gbM), but the origin and function of gbM remain unknown. Here we report the discovery that Eutrema salsugineum has lost gbM from its genome, the first known instance for an angiosperm. Of all known DNA methyltransferases, only CHROMOMETHYLTRANSFERASE 3 (CMT3) is missing from E. salsugineum. Identification of an additional angiosperm, Conringia planisiliqua, which independently lost CMT3 and gbM supports that CMT3 is required for the establishment of gbM. Detailed analyses of gene expression, the histone variant H2A.Z and various histone modifications in E. salsugineum and in Arabidopsis thaliana epiRILs found no evidence in support of any role for gbM in regulating transcription or affecting the composition and modifications of chromatin over evolutionary time scales.', u'The effects of environmental stress on developmental phenotypes allows us to observe the adaptive capacity of various genotypes. In single-genotype populations, this allows for observing the effects of standing variation on the process of developmental plasticity. Typically, such efforts do not allow us to distinguish the effect of genotype from the effects of environment. In the Nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, however, the L1 stage of development allows for precise and controlled imposition of starvation on a synchronized population of individuals. This allows for systematic comparisons within and between defined genotypes. \n\nThis study provides a number of innovations in the study of Nematode developmental plasticity. The first is to demonstrate systems-level mechanisms of adaptive response for various genetic mutant phenotypes to extended L1 arrest. The effects of developmental deprivation are quantifiable by applying statistical modeling techniques to reproductive time-series. This is characterized for both a wildtype strain (N2) and a host of genetic mutant strains. A further contribution is investigating the effects of starvation at multi-generational timescales. This includes both two generations post-starvation and multiple starvation experiences with selection for fecundity over 11 generations. \n\nStatistical techniques such as Kernel Density Estimation (KDE), fold-change analysis, and Area Under the Curve (AUC) analysis reveal differences from baseline in the form of shifts in reproductive timing and kurtosis in peak reproductive capacity characterize adaptive responses that are semi-independent of environment. Extending these patterns of response to ad hoc comparisons with multi-generational contexts reveals that different genotypes characterized by mutations of specific genetic loci lead to vastly different outcomes.', u'Trait selection has received considerable attention in the pursuit to understand niche-based community assembly processes and to generate ecological predictions. To further advance the study of trait selection, a conceptual statistical model is presented that outlines and discuss the possibilities of i) estimating the effect of interspecific interactions on traits rather than just testing weather selection has had an effect on the observed trait distributions, ii) discriminating between environmental filtering and niche partitioning processes and estimate the characteristic features and importance of both processes, and iii) predicting the effect of environmental changes and gradients on trait selection. To achieve these goals a number of necessary assumptions have to be specified and these assumptions are discussed and assessed. Simulated plant cover data from a simple uniform environment was successfully fitted to the model and the results indicates that it is possible to partition direct population growth and population growth that is mediated by interspecific interaction. The data requirements of the model are modest, i.e. time series data on plant species abundance and a species trait matrix. Consequently, the model concept may be used to model trait selection, including the effect of interspecific interactions, in many existing plant ecological datasets.', u'Here we introduce fluff, a software package that allows for simple exploration, clustering and visualization of high-throughput sequencing experiments. The package contains three command-line tools to generate publication-quality figures in an uncomplicated manner using sensible defaults. Genome-wide data can be aggregated, clustered and visualized in a heatmap, according to different clustering methods. This includes a predefined setting to identify dynamic clusters between different conditions or developmental stages. Alternatively, clustered data can be visualized in a bandplot. Finally, fluff includes a tool to generate genomic profiles. As command-line tools, the fluff programs can easily be integrated into standard analysis pipelines. The installation is straightforward and documentation is available at http://fluff.readthedocs.org.', u'We sequenced the complete mitogenomes of two eastern tropical Pacific gorgonians,\nMuricea crassa and Muricea purpurea, using NGS technologies. The assembled mi-\ntogenomes of M. crassa and M. purpurea were 19,586 bp and 19,358 bp in length,\nwith a GC-content ranging from 36.0% to 36.1%, respectively. The two mitogenomes\nhad the same gene arrangement consisting of 14 protein-coding genes, two rRNAs and\none tRNA. Mitogenome identity was 98.5%. The intergenic regions between COB and\nNAD6 and between NAD5 and NAD4 were polymorphic in length with a high level of nu-\ncleotide diversity. Based on a concatenated dataset of 14 mitochondrial protein-coding\ngenes we inferred the phylogeny of 26 octocoral species.', u'The Dirichlet-multinomial mixture model (DMM) and its extensions provide powerful new tools for understanding the ecological dynamics underlying taxa abundance. However, their capacity to effectiveness in capturing features of empirical data is not well understood. In this work, we use posterior predictive distributions (PPDs) to explore the performance of an infinite dimensional version of the DMM in three case studies, including two amplicon metagenomic time series. We avoid concentrating on fluctuations within individual taxa and instead focus on consortial-level dynamics with straight-forward methods for visualizing the output of the model that emphasizes this perspective. In each study, the DMM appears to perform well in organizing the data as a framwork for biological interpretation. Using the PPDs, we also observe several exceptions where the data appear to significantly depart from the model in ways that give useful ecological insight. We summarize the conclusions as a set of considerations for field researchers: problems with samples and taxa; relevant scales of ecological fluctuation; additional niches as outgroups; and possible violations of niche neutrality.', u"In a synthetic biological network it may often be desirable to maximize or minimize parameters such as reaction rates, fluxes and total concentrations of reagents, while preserving a given dynamic behavior.  We consider the problem of parameter optimization in biomolecular bistable circuits. We show that, under some assumptions often satisfied by bistable biological networks, it is possible to derive algebraic conditions on the parameters that determine when bistability occurs. These (global) algebraic conditions can be included as nonlinear constraints in a parameter optimization problem. We derive bistability conditions using Sturm's theorem for Gardner and Collins toggle switch. Then we optimize its nominal parameters to improve switching speed and robustness to a subset of uncertain parameters.", u'Perception and decision rely on internal models of the world. In primary sensory areas of cortex, joint activity of neural populations likely represents the statistical structure of the external environment. Unknown is whether internal neural models are a general computational principle of cortex, extending to learning, higher-order cortices, and actions. We tested that generality by examining changes of population activity patterns from rat prefrontal cortex in the course of learning rules in a maze. The statistical distributions of activity patterns converged between waking and slow-wave sleep during rule learning. Changes were greatest for patterns predicting correct choice and expressed at the choice point. Together, our results are consistent with the convergence over learning of inferred (in waking) and prior (in sleep) expectations of a task derived from an internal model. The construction and use of an internal model may be a recurring theme of cortical computation.', u"Bacteria and archaea reproduce clonally (vertical descent), but exchange genes by recombination (horizontal transfer). Recombination allows adaptive mutations or genes to spread rapidly within (or even between) species, and reduces the burden of deleterious mutations. Clonality -- defined here as the balance between vertical and horizontal inheritance -- is therefore a key microbial trait, determining how quickly a population can adapt and the size of its gene pool. Here, I discuss whether clonality varies over time and if it can be considered a stable trait of a given population. I show that, in some cases, clonality is clearly not static. For example, non-clonal (highly recombining) populations can give rise to clonal expansions, often of pathogens. However, an analysis of time-course metagenomic data from a lake suggests that a bacterial population's past clonality (as measured by its genetic diversity) is a good predictor of its future clonality. Clonality therefore appears to be relatively -- but not completely -- stable over evolutionary time.", u'When reporting research findings, scientists document the steps they followed so that others can verify and build upon the research. When those steps have been described in sufficient detail that others can retrace the steps and obtain similar results, the research is said to be reproducible. Computers play a vital role in many research disciplines and present both opportunities and challenges for reproducibility. Computers can be programmed to execute analysis tasks, and those programs can be repeated and shared with others. Due to the deterministic nature of most computer programs, the same analysis tasks, applied to the same data, will often produce the same outputs. However, in practice, computational findings often cannot be reproduced due to complexities in how software is packaged, installed, and executed--and due to limitations in how scientists document analysis steps. Many tools and techniques are available to help overcome these challenges. Here we describe seven such strategies. With a broad scientific audience in mind, we describe strengths and limitations of each approach, as well as circumstances under which each might be applied. No single strategy is sufficient for every scenario; thus we emphasize that it is often useful to combine approaches.', u'Zika virus (ZIKV) is an emergent threat provoking a worldwide explosive outbreak. Since January 2015, 41 countries reported autochthonous cases. In Brazil, an increase in Guillain-Barr\xe9 syndrome and microcephaly cases was linked to ZIKV infections. A recent report describing low experimental transmission efficiency of its main putative vector, Ae. aegypti, in conjunction with apparent sexual transmission notifications prompted the investigation of other potential sources of viral dissemination. Urine and saliva have been previously established as useful tools in ZIKV diagnosis. However, no evidence regarding the infectivity of ZIKV particles present in saliva and urine has been obtained yet.\nNine urine and five saliva samples from nine patients from Rio de Janeiro presenting rash and other typical Zika acute phase symptoms were inoculated in Vero cell culture and submitted to specific ZIKV RNA detection and quantification through, respectively, NAT-Zika, RT-PCR and RT-qPCR. Two ZIKV isolates were achieved, one from urine and one from saliva specimens.  ZIKV nucleic acid was identified by all methods in four patients. Whenever both urine and saliva samples were available from the same patient, urine viral loads were higher, corroborating the general sense that it is a better source for ZIKV molecular diagnostic. In spite of this, from the two isolated strains, each from one patient, only one derived from urine, suggesting that other factors, like the acidic nature of this fluid, might interfere with virion infectivity. The complete genome of both ZIKV isolates was obtained. Phylogenetic analysis revealed similarity with strains previously isolated during the South America outbreak.\nThe detection of infectious ZIKV particles in urine and saliva of patients during the acute phase may represent a critical factor in the spread of virus.  The epidemiological relevance of this finding, regarding the contribution of alternative non vectorial ZIKV transmission routes, needs further investigation.', u'A central goal of systems neuroscience is to develop accurate quantitative models of how neural circuits process information. Prevalent models of light response in retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) usually begin with linear filtering over space and time, which reduces the high-dimensional visual stimulus to a simpler and more tractable scalar function of time that in turn determines the model output. Although these pseudo-linear models can accurately replicate RGC responses to stochastic stimuli, it is unclear whether the strong linearity assumption captures the function of the retina in the natural environment. This paper tests how accurately one pseudo-linear model, the generalized linear model (GLM), explains the responses of primate RGCs to naturalistic visual stimuli. Light responses from macaque RGCs were obtained using large-scale multi-electrode recordings, and two major cell types, ON and OFF parasol, were examined. Visual stimuli consisted of images of natural environments with simulated saccadic and fixational eye movements. The GLM accurately reproduced RGC responses to white noise stimuli, as observed previously, but did not generalize to predict RGC responses to naturalistic stimuli. It also failed to capture RGC responses when fitted and tested with naturalistic stimuli alone. Fitted scalar nonlinearities before and after the linear filtering stage were insufficient to correct the failures. These findings suggest that retinal signaling under natural conditions cannot be captured by models that begin with linear filtering, and emphasize the importance of additional spatial nonlinearities, gain control, and/or peripheral effects in the first stage of visual processing.', u'In nature, organisms are simultaneously exposed to multiple stresses (i.e. complex environments) that often fluctuate unpredictably. While both these factors have been studied in isolation, the interaction of the two remains poorly explored. To address this issue, we selected laboratory populations of Escherichia coli under complex (i.e. stressful combinations of pH, H2O2 and NaCl) unpredictably fluctuating environments for ~900 generations. We compared the growth rates and the corresponding trade-off patterns of these populations to those that were selected under constant values of the component stresses (i.e. pH, H2O2 and NaCl) for the same duration. The fluctuation-selected populations had greater mean growth rate and lower variation for growth rate over all the selection environments experienced. However, while the populations selected under constant stresses experienced severe trade-offs in many of the environments other than those in which they were selected, the fluctuation-selected populations could by-pass the across-environment trade-offs completely. Interestingly, trade-offs were found between growth rates and carrying capacities. The results suggest that complexity and fluctuations can strongly affect the underlying trade-off structure in evolving populations.', u'Background: Use of the progestin contraceptive Depot Medroxyprogesterone Acetate (DMPA) by HIV 1 infected women is associated with increased female to male transmission of HIV. Mucosal innate immune activation has been proposed as a likely mechanism. To establish the effect of DMPA upon mucosal immune activation, this study sought to evaluate the concentrations of 5 proinflammatory and the regulatory cytokine IL 10 in cervicovaginal lavage fluid.  \nMethods: This was a case control study, 70 participants were recruited, comprising of 35 asymptomatic ART naive HIV positive women on DMPA recruited as cases and 35 age matched asymptomatic ART naive HIV positive women not on contraceptives recruited as controls. Peripheral blood CD4 and total lymphocyte counts, High vaginal swab microscopy, endocervical smears and cervical cytology were performed for each participant. Concentrations of six proinflammatory cytokines were measured on cervicovaginal lavage by multiplex cytometric bead array. \nResults: The mean age of cases was 26.8 years and 30 years for controls. Total lymphocyte counts and CD4 cell counts were significantly higher among cases (p=0.02 and 0.004 respectively). HSV 2 prevalence as determined by ELISA was higher (p=0.034 among cases. The concentrations of the cytokines IL 1\u03b2, IL 6, IL 8, IL 12p70 and TNF \u03b1 were lower among cases, with IL 1\u03b2 being statistically significant (p=0.046). Concentrations of IL 10 was higher among cases (p=0.022). On multivariate analysis, reduction in IL 1\u03b2 and IL 8 were associated with the duration of DMPA use (p=0.015 and 0.041 respectively). Inclusion of HSV 2 into the multivariate models showed elevation of all cytokines measured (p=<0.001). \nConclusion: DMPA use is associated with reduction of proinflammatory cytokines and elevation of the regulatory cytokine IL 10. This may explain increased female to male transmission of HIV infection by modulation of male genital tract mucosa in the absence of increased HIV 1 genital shedding.\n\nKEYWORDS - DMPA, HSV 2, HIV 1, CVL, PROINFLAMMATORY CYTOKINES', u'In order to leverage novel sequencing techniques for cloning genes in eukaryotic organisms with complex genomes, the false positive rate of variant discovery must be controlled for by experimental design and informatics. We sequenced five lines from three pedigrees of EMS mutagenized Sorghum bicolor, including a pedigree segregating a recessive dwarf mutant. Comparing the sequences of the lines, we were able to identify and eliminate error prone positions.  One genomic region contained EMS mutant alleles in dwarfs that were homozygous reference sequence in wild-type siblings and heterozygous in segregating families.  This region contained a single non-synonymous change that cosegregated with dwarfism in a validation population and  caused a premature stop codon in the sorghum ortholog encoding the giberellic acid biosynthetic enzyme ent-kaurene oxidase. Application of exogenous giberillic acid rescued the mutant phenotype. Our method for mapping did not require outcrossing and introduced no segregation variance.  This enables work when line crossing is complicated by life history, permitting gene discovery outside of genetic models.This inverts the historical approach of first using recombination to define a locus and then sequencing genes. Our formally identical approach first sequences all the genes and then seeks co-segregation with the trait. Mutagenized lines lacking obvious phenotypic alterations are available for an extention of this approach: mapping with a known marker set in a line that is phenotypically identical to starting material for EMS mutant generation.', u'Recently, measurement of RNA at single cell resolution has yielded surprising insights. Methods for single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) have received considerable attention, but the broad reliability of single cell methods and the factors governing their performance are still poorly known. Here, we conducted a large-scale control experiment to assess the transfer function of three scRNA-seq methods and factors modulating the function. All three methods detected greater than 70% of the expected number of genes and had a 50% probability of detecting genes with abundance greater than 2 to 4 molecules. Despite the small number of molecules, sequencing depth significantly affected gene detection. While biases in detection and quantification were qualitatively similar across methods, the degree of bias differed, consistent with differences in molecular protocol. Measurement reliability increased with expression level for all methods and we conservatively estimate the measurement transfer functions to be linear above ~5-10 molecules. Based on these extensive control studies, we propose that RNA-seq of single cells has come of age, yielding quantitative biological information.', u'Summary: We developed an efficient tool dedicated to call somatic variants from whole-exome sequencing (WES) data using tumor and its matched normal tissue, plus a user-defined control panel of non-cancer samples. Compared with other methods, we showed superior performance of LoLoPicker with significantly improved specificity. The algorithm of LoLoPicker is particularly useful for calling variants from low-quality cancer samples such as formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded (FFPE) samples. \nImplementation and Availability: The main scripts are implemented in Python 2.7.8 and the package is released at https://github.com/jcarrotzhang/LoLoPicker.', u'Rapid detection of influenza viral infections in the poultry farm is advantageous in several facts such as environmental/personal safety, food-security and socio-economy. Herein, we report the development of an electrochemical based dual sensor platform composed of methylene blue-electroadsorbed graphene oxide nanostructures modified with monoclonal antibodies, H5N1 and H1N1. Bio-functional layers comprised of chitosan and protein-A molecules were implemented at the interface of sensor element and antibodies, which synergistically enriched the bio-activity of immobilized antibodies for the immune complex formation. The differential pulse voltammetric signals resulted from the developed immunosensor platform exhibited a good correlation (R2= 0.9978 for H1N1 and R2=0.9997 for H5N1) for the wide range of target concentrations (25 to 500 pM). Chronoamperometric study also revealed the amplified current sensitivity of the immunoelectrodes even at the picomolar level. The proposed immunosensor design not only provide rapid analytical response time (<1 min) but also provide simplicity in fabrication and instrumentation which paves an attractive platform for on-farm monitoring of viral infections.', u'Large complexes of classical particles play central roles in biology, in polymer physics, and in other disciplines. However, physics currently lacks mathematical methods for describing such complexes in terms of component particles, interaction energies, and assembly rules. Here we describe a Fock space structure that addresses this need, as well as diagrammatic methods that facilitate the use of this formalism. These methods can dramatically simplify the equations governing both equilibrium and non-equilibrium stochastic chemical systems. A mathematical relationship between the set of all complexes and a list of rules for complex assembly is also identified.', u'Young, or newly evolved, genes arise ubiquitously across the tree of life, and can rapidly acquire novel functions that influence a diverse array of biological processes1.  Previous work identified a young regulatory gene in Drosophila, Zeus, which diverged rapidly from its parent Caf40 and took on roles in the male reproductive system.  This neofunctionalization was accompanied by differential binding of the Zeus protein to loci throughout the Drosophila melanogaster genome2.  However, the way in which new DNA-binding proteins acquire and co-evolve with their targets in the genome is not understood. Here, by comparing Zeus ChIP-seq data from D. melanogaster and D. simulans to the ancestral Caf40 binding events from D. yakuba, a species that diverged before the duplication event, we find a dynamic pattern in which Zeus binding rapidly co-evolved with a previously unknown DNA motif under the influence of positive selection.  Interestingly, while both copies of Zeus acquired targets at male-biased and testis-specific genes, D. melanogaster and D. simulans proteins have specialized binding on different chromosomes, a pattern echoed in the evolution of the associated motif.  Our results suggest that evolution of young regulatory genes can be coupled to substantial re-wiring of the transcriptional networks into which they integrate, even over short evolutionary timescales.  Our results thus uncover dynamic, genome-wide evolutionary processes associated with new genes.', u'Milk has rich nutritional content packed with fats, proteins and water.  It also contains beneficiary and non-beneficiary microbes which account for its short shelf life.  Currently cold storage, pasteurization, ultra-high temperature, microfiltration and addition of lactose peroxidase are the methods of choice to control milk spoilage and prolong its shelf life.  Their limitations include high energy consumption and loss of variable proportion of heat sensitive nutrients.  Titanium dioxide (TiO2) nanoparticle coated thin film was used in food packaging industry for its antimicrobial property. TiO2 thin films were synthesized by sol gel process; it was characterized with scanning electron microscopy which showed pore size as 5 \u03bc and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy which showed metal present in sample is TiO2, zinc and silver.  Exposure of raw milk at room temperature to TiO2 thin films doped with zinc or copper for a couple of hours showed zone of inhibition in disc diffusion technique, reduction in acid production.  It also showed reduction in optical density indicating inhibition of growth in growth curve analysis, increase in the time required for methylene blue reduction and a five log folds decrease in bacterial count estimated using serial dilution plate count. The present studies were carried out under room temperature and pressure which is an added advantage in terms of energy as well as retention of nutrients.  Though TiO2 is insoluble in water one needs to address it toxicity issues and adverse effects if any on the nutritional quality of milk before scaling up the process.', u"This paper documents what began as an exercise in curiosity: logarithmic spiral designs abound in nature; in galaxies, flowers, even pinecones, and on human scalps as whorls. Why are humans the only primates to have whorls on the scalp? Is the formation of scalp whorls mechanical or genetic? A mechanical theory has long been postulated; the mechanical theory suggests that hair whorl patterning is determined by the tension on the epidermis during rapid expansion of the cranium while the hair follicle is growing downwards; however, this has never before, to our knowledge, been experimentally proven conclusively. We found, that under certain conditions, we were able to experimentally recreate spirals on the scalp to demonstrate that the basis of scalp whorls is indeed mechanical; and that logarithmic spirals may be nature's own design for rapid expansion of organic tissues. Given our experiments only created whorls when certain conditions were satisfied (and not in others), they have given us great insight into the mechanical formation of skin whorls and the physiology of skin stretch. We believe that these findings will lead to many more advances in understanding skin dynamics and indeed the changes that occur in tissue when confronted by stretch.", u'Helicobacter pylori is a spiral-shaped bacterium that grows in the human digestive tract; it infects ~50% of the global population. H. pylori induce inflammation, gastroenteritis, and ulcers, which is associated with significant morbidity and may be linked to stomach cancer in certain individuals. Motility is an essential virulence factor for H. pylori, allowing it to migrate toward and invade the epithelial lining of the stomach to shelter it from the harsh environment of the stomach. H. pylori senses pH gradients and use polar flagella to move towards the epithelium where the pH approaches neutrality. However, its chemotaxis behaviors are incompletely understood. Previous in vitro tests examining the response of H. pylori to chemical gradients have been subjected to substantial limitations. To more accurately mimic/modulate the cellular microenvironment, a nanoporous microfluidic device was used to monitor the real time chemotactic activity of single cell of H. pylori in response to urea. The results showed that microfluidic method is a promising alternative for precisely studying chemotactic behavior of bacteria.', u'In the Avocado Sunblotch Viroid (ASBVd: 249-nt) from the Avsunviroidae family, a symmetric rolling-circle replication operates through an autocatalytic mechanism mediated by hammerhead ribozymes (HHR) embedded in both polarity strands. The concatenated multimeric ASBVd (+) and ASBVd (-) RNAs thus generated are processed by cleavage to unit-length where ASBVd (-) self-cleaves with more efficiency. Absolute scale small angle neutron scattering (SANS) revealed a temperature-dependent dimer association in both ASBVd (-) and its derived 79-nt HHR (-). A joint thermodynamic analysis of SANS and catalytic data indicates the rate-determining step corresponds to the dimer/monomer transition. 2D and 3D models of monomeric and dimeric HHR (-) suggest that the inter-molecular contacts stabilizing the dimer (between HI and HII domains) compete with the intra-molecular ones stabilizing the active conformation of the full-length HHR required for an efficient self-cleavage. Similar competing intra- and inter-molecular contacts are proposed in ASBVd (-) though with a remoter region from an extension of the HI domain.', u'Species are fundamental units of comparison in biology. The newly discovered importance and ubiquity of host-associated microorganisms is now stimulating work on the roles that microbes can play in animal speciation. We previously synthesized the literature and advanced concepts of speciation by symbiosis with notable attention to hybrid sterility and lethality. Here, we review recent studies and relevant data on microbes as players in host behavior and behavioral isolation, emphasizing the patterns seen in these analyses and highlighting areas worthy of additional exploration. We conclude that the role of microbial symbionts in behavior and speciation is gaining exciting traction, and the holobiont and hologenome concepts afford an evolving intellectual framework to promote research and intellectual exchange between disciplines such as behavior, microbiology, genetics, symbiosis and speciation. Given the increasing centrality of microbiology in macroscopic life, microbial symbiosis is arguably the most neglected aspect of animal and plant speciation, and studying it should yield a better understanding of the origin of species.', u'Modern agricultural landscapes favour crop pests: herbivores benefit from resource concentration and/or the absence of natural enemies in large areas of intensively farmed fields interspersed by small fragments of natural or non-crop habitats. \nConservation biological control (CBC) aims at increasing the functional diversity of agricultural landscapes to make them more hospitable to natural enemies, and less to herbivores. Although natural enemies readily respond to this management, very few studies assess if they succeed in effectively protecting crops.\nWe set up a field experiment to study if an ecological infrastructure varying in size and consisting of the provision of floral resources at the centre of lettuce plots would influence the number of eggs laid by hoverflies, and ultimately the control of lettuce aphids. We found that the hoverfly females lay more eggs in the plots with the larger flower resource compared to the control. However, this response had no impact on the abundance of aphids on the lettuces.\nWe designed two laboratory experiments to understand this absence of response. We found mutual interference between hoverfly larvae, and suggest it may undermine the biological control of aphids.  \nThis mismatch between landscape management and the response of hoverflies indicates CBC should take into account insect behaviour, particularly their response to conspecific density, additionally to landscape ecology.', u'Mismatch repair (MMR) is one of the main systems maintaining fidelity of replication. Different effectiveness in correction of errors produced during replication of the leading and the lagging DNA strands was reported in yeast, but this effect is poorly studied in humans. Here, we use MMR-deficient (MSI) and MMR-proficient (MSS) cancer samples to investigate properties of the human MMR. MSI, but not MSS, cancers demonstrate unequal mutation rates between the leading and the lagging strands. The direction of strand asymmetry in MSI cancers matches that observed in cancers with mutated exonuclease domain of polymerase \u03b4, indicating that polymerase \u03b4 contributes more mutations than its leading-strand counterpart, polymerase \u03b5. As polymerase \u03b4 primarily synthesizes DNA during the lagging strand replication, this implies that mutations produced in wild type cells during lagging strand replication are repaired by the MMR ~3 times more effectively, compared to those produced on the leading strand.', u'Background: Antimicrobial resistance is a great concern in the medical community, as well as food industry. Soy peptides were tested against bacterial biofilms for their antimicrobial activity. A high throughput drug screening assay was developed using microfluidic technology, RAMAN spectroscopy, and optical microscopy for rapid screening of antimicrobials and rapid identification of pathogens.\nMethods: Synthesized PGTAVFK and IKAFKEATKVDKVVVLWTA soy peptides were tested against Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Listeria monocytogenes using a microdilution assay. Microfluidic technology in combination with Surface Enhanced RAMAN Spectroscopy (SERS) and optical microscopy was used for rapid screening of soy peptides, pathogen identification, and to visualize the impact of selected peptides.\nResults: The PGTAVFK peptide did not significantly affect P. aeruginosa, although it had an inhibitory effect on L. monocytogenes above a concentration of 625 uM. IKAFKEATKVDKVVVLWTA was effective against both P. aeruginosa and L. monocytogenes above a concentration of 37.2 uM. High throughput drug screening assays were able to reduce the screening and bacterial detection time to 4 h. SERS spectra was used to distinguish the two bacterial species.', u'Humans prioritize different semantic qualities of a complex stimulus depending on their behavioral goals. These semantic features are encoded in distributed neural populations, yet it is unclear how attention might operate across these distributed representations. To address this, we presented participants with naturalistic video clips of animals in their natural environments while they attended to either behavior or taxonomy. We used models of representational geometry to investigate how attentional allocation affects the distributed neural representation of animal behavior and taxonomy. Attending to animal behavior transiently increased the discriminability of distributed population codes for observed actions in anterior intraparietal, pericentral, and ventral temporal cortices, while collapsing task-irrelevant taxonomic information. Attending to animal taxonomy while viewing the same stimuli increased the discriminability of distributed animal category representations in ventral temporal cortex and collapsed behavioral information. For both tasks, attention selectively enhanced the categoricity of response patterns along behaviorally relevant dimensions. These findings suggest that behavioral goals alter how the brain extracts semantic features from the visual world. Attention effectively disentangles population responses for downstream read-out by sculpting representational geometry in late-stage perceptual areas.', u'To gain biological insight into the discoveries made by GWAS and meta-analysis studies, effective integration of functional data generated by large-scale efforts such as the GTEx Project is needed. PrediXcan is a gene-level approach that addresses this need by estimating the genetically determined component of gene expression. These predicted expression traits can then be tested for association with phenotype in order to test for mediating role of gene expression levels. Furthermore, due to the polygenic nature of many complex traits, efforts to aggregate multiple GWAS studies and conduct meta-analyses have successfully increased our ability to identify variants of small effect sizes. To take advantage of the results generated by these efforts and to avoid the problems associated with accessing and handling individual-level data (e.g. consent limitations, large computational/storage costs) we have developed an extension of PrediXcan. The new method, MetaXcan, infers the results of PrediXcan using only summary statistics from large-scale GWAS or meta-analyses. Here we show that the concordance between PrediXcan and MetaXcan is excellent when the right reference population is used (R2 > 0.95) and robust to population mismatches (R2 > 0.85). We provide open source local and web-based software for easy implementation through (https://github.com/hakyimlab/MetaXcan)', u'BACKGROUND: Selective plane illumination microscopy (SPIM a type of light sheet microscopy) involves focusing a thin sheet of laser light through a specimen at right angles to the objective lens.  As only the thin section of the specimen at the focal plane of the lens is illuminated, out of focus light is naturally absent and toxicity due to light (phototoxicity) is greatly reduced enabling longer term live imaging.  OpenSPIM is an open access platform (Pitrone et al. 2013 and OpenSPIM.org) created to give new users step by step instructions on building a basic configuration of a SPIM microscope, which can in principle be adapted and upgraded to each laboratorys own requirements and budget. Here we describe our own experience with the process of designing, building, configuring and using an OpenSPIM for our research into the early development of the polyclad flatworm Maritigrella crozieri, a non model animal. \nRESULTS: Our OpenSPIM builds on the standard design with the addition of two colour laser illumination for simultaneous detection of two probes/molecules and dual sided illumination, which provides more even signal intensity across a specimen. Our OpenSPIM provides high resolution 3d images and time lapse recordings, and we demonstrate the use of two colour lasers and the benefits of two color dual-sided imaging.  We used our microscope to study the development of the embryo of the polyclad flatworm Maritigrella crozieri.  The capabilities of our microscope are demonstrated by our ability to record the stereotypical spiral cleavage pattern of Maritigrella with high speed multi view time lapse imaging. 3D and 4D (3D and time) reconstruction of early development from these data is possible using image registration and deconvolution tools provided as part of the open source Fiji platform. We discuss our findings on the pros and cons of a self built microscope.\nCONCLUSIONS: We conclude that home built microscopes, such as an OpenSPIM, together with the available open source software, such as MicroManager and Fiji, make SPIM accessible to anyone interested in having continuous access to their own light-sheet microscope. However, building an OpenSPIM is not without challenges and an open access microscope is a worthwhile, if significant, investment of time and money. Multi view 4D microscopy is more challenging than we had expected. We hope that our gained experience during this project will help future OpenSPIM users with similar ambitions.', u'Infection avoidance behaviours are the first line of defence against pathogenic encounters. Behavioural plasticity in response to internal or external cues can therefore generate potentially significant heterogeneity in infection. We tested whether Drosophila melanogaster exhibits infection avoidance behaviour during foraging, and whether this behaviour is modified by prior exposure to Drosophila C Virus (DCV) and by the risk of DCV encounter. We examined two measures of infection avoidance: (1) the motivation to feed in the presence of an infection risk and (2) the preference to feed on a clean food source over a potentially infectious source. While we found no clear evidence for preference of clean food sources over potentially infectious ones, female flies were less motivated to feed when presented with a risk of encountering DCV, but only if they had been previously exposed to the virus. We discuss the relevance of behavioural plasticity during foraging for host fitness and pathogen spread.', u'A critical assumption of gene expression analysis is that mRNA abundances broadly correlate with protein abundance, but these two are often imperfectly correlated. Some of the discrepancy can be accounted for by two important mRNA features: codon usage and mRNA secondary structure. We present a new global factor, called mRNA:ncRNA avoidance, and provide evidence that avoidance increases translational efficiency. We also demonstrate a strong selection for avoidance of stochastic mRNA:ncRNA interactions across prokaryotes, and that these have a greater impact on protein abundance than mRNA structure or codon usage. By generating synonymously variant green fluorescent protein (GFP) mRNAs with different potential for mRNA:ncRNA interactions, we demonstrate that GFP levels correlate well with interaction avoidance. Therefore, taking stochastic mRNA:ncRNA interactions into account enables precise modulation of protein abundance.', u'Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) research is routinely criticized for being statistically underpowered due to characteristically small sample sizes and much larger sample sizes are being increasingly recommended. Additionally, various sources of artifact inherent in fMRI data can have detrimental impact on effect size estimates and statistical power. Here we show how specific removal of non-BOLD artifacts can improve effect size estimation and statistical power in task-fMRI contexts, with particular application to the social-cognitive domain of mentalizing/theory of mind. Non-BOLD variability identification and removal is achieved in a biophysical and statistically principled manner by combining multi-echo fMRI acquisition and independent components analysis (ME-ICA). Group-level effect size estimates on two different mentalizing tasks were enhanced by ME-ICA at a median rate of 24% in regions canonically associated with mentalizing, while much more substantial boosts (40-149%) were observed in non-canonical cerebellar areas. This effect size boosting is primarily a consequence of reduction of non-BOLD noise at the subject-level, which then translates into consequent reductions in between-subject variance at the group-level. Power simulations demonstrate that enhanced effect size enables highly-powered studies at traditional sample sizes. Cerebellar effects observed after applying ME-ICA may be unobservable with conventional imaging at traditional sample sizes. Thus, ME-ICA allows for principled design-agnostic non-BOLD artifact removal that can substantially improve effect size estimates and statistical power in task-fMRI contexts. ME-ICA could help issues regarding statistical power and non-BOLD noise and enable potential for novel discovery of aspects of brain organization that are currently under-appreciated and not well understood.', u"Phylogenetic profiling, which infers functional relationships between genes based on patterns of gene presence/absence across species, has proven to be highly effective. Here we introduce a complementary approach, phylogenetic expression profiling (PEP), which detects gene sets with correlated expression levels across a phylogeny. Applying PEP to RNA-seq data consisting of 657 samples from 309 diverse unicellular eukaryotes, we found several hundred gene sets evolving in a coordinated fashion. These allowed us to predict a role of the Golgi apparatus in Alzheimer's disease, as well as novel genes related to diabetes pathways. We also detected adaptive evolution of tRNA ligase levels to match genome-wide codon usage. In sum, we found that PEP is an effective method for inferring functional relationships - especially among core cellular components that are never lost, to which phylogenetic profiling cannot be applied - and that many subunits of the most conserved molecular machines are coexpressed across eukaryotes.", u'Comparisons of DNA from archaic and modern humans show that these groups interbred, and in some cases received an evolutionary advantage from doing so. This process - adaptive introgression - may lead to a faster rate of adaptation than is predicted from models with mutation and selection alone. Within the last couple of years, a series of studies have identified regions of the genome that are likely examples of adaptive introgression. In many cases, once a region was ascertained as being introgressed, commonly used statistics based on both haplotype as well as allele frequency information were employed to test for positive selection. Introgression by itself, however, changes both the haplotype structure and the distribution of allele frequencies, thus confounding traditional tests for detecting positive selection. Therefore, patterns generated by introgression alone may lead to false inferences of positive selection. Here we explore models involving both introgression and positive selection to investigate the behavior of various statistics under adaptive introgression. In particular, we find that the number and allelic frequencies of sites that are uniquely shared between archaic humans and specific present-day populations are particularly useful for detecting adaptive introgression. We then examine the 1000 Genomes dataset to identify regions that were likely subject to adaptive introgression and discuss some of the most promising candidate genes located in these regions.', u'Images of iconic buildings, for example, the Empire State Building, instantly transport us to New York City. Despite the substantial impact of architectural design on our visual experience of built environments, we know little about its neural representation in the human brain. We have found patterns of neural activity associated with specific architectural styles in a network of several high-level visual brain regions including the scene-selective parahippocampal place area (PPA). Surprisingly, this network, which is characterized by correlated error patterns, includes the fusiform face area. Accuracy of decoding architectural styles from the PPA was negatively correlated with expertise in architecture, indicating a shift from purely visual cues to the use of domain knowledge with increasing expertise. Our study showcases that neural representations of architectural styles in the human brain are driven not only by perceptual features but also by semantic and cultural facets, such as expertise for architectural styles.', u'Cell fate determination by lateral inhibition via Notch/Delta signalling has been extensively studied. Most formalised models consider Notch/Delta interactions in fields of cells, with parameters that typically lead to symmetry breaking of signalling states between neighbouring cells, commonly resulting in salt-and-pepper fate patterns. Here we consider the case of signalling between isolated cell pairs, and find that the bifurcation properties of a standard mathematical model of lateral inhibition can lead to stable symmetric signalling states. We apply this model to the adult intestinal stem cell (ISC) of Drosophila, whose fate is stochastic but dependent on the Notch/Delta pathway. We observe a correlation between signalling state in cell pairs and their contact area. We interpret this behaviour in terms of the properties of our model in the presence of population variability in signalling thresholds. Our results suggest that the dynamics of Notch/Delta signalling can contribute to explain stochasticity in stem cell fate decisions, and that the standard model for lateral inhibition can account for a wider range of developmental outcomes than previously considered.', u'Cellular processes including transcription are inherently dynamic.  Currently, the dynamics of transcription and other molecular processes in the cell are poorly understood1 because of a lack of methods that measure fundamental kinetic parameters in vivo.  Precise estimation of the chromatin-binding on- and off-rates of general transcription factors (TFs) would allow stochastic modeling of pre-initiation complex formation2,3, RNA polymerase recruitment and elongation, and transcription4,5.  Live-cell imaging at specific multi-copy genes is capable of yielding the residence time of TF-chromatin interactions at high temporal resolution (i.e., second timescale)6 but does not allow these measurements at single-copy genes.  Cross-linking kinetic (CLK) analysis is a high spatial and temporal resolution method that enables estimation of the in-vivo TF-chromatin on- and off-rates at single-copy loci7.  However, alternative approaches to estimating these kinetic parameters are needed to independently verify CLK as well as live-cell imaging approaches8.  We developed and applied a physical modeling approach using chemical kinetic theory that directly estimates the residence time of TATA-binding protein (TBP) across the yeast genome from TBP competition ChIP data9--another high-spatial resolution method10,11, which was generally believed to be low temporal resolution (20 min or greater).  Using this approach, we are capable of estimating TBP-chromatin residence times on the minute time-scale across the yeast genome, demonstrating that competition ChIP is actually a relatively high temporal resolution method.  Comparing TBP-chromatin residence times with nascent RNA transcription rates12, we find that ~5 TBP binding events are associated with productive RNA synthesis at the typical gene.  Our results paint, for the first time, a highly dynamic, stochastic picture of pre-initiation complex formation with multiple rounds of partial assembly and disassembly before productive RNA polymerase elongation.', u'Plants have evolved elaborate mechanisms controlling developmental responses to environmental stimuli. A particularly important stimulus is temperature. Previous work has identified the interplay of PIF4 and ELF3 as a central circuit underlying thermal responses in Arabidopsis thaliana. However, thermal responses vary widely among strains, possibly offering mechanistic insights into the wiring of this circuit. ELF3 contains a polyglutamine (polyQ) tract that is crucial for ELF3 function and varies in length across strains. Here, we use transgenic analysis to test the hypothesis that natural polyQ variation in ELF3 is associated with the observed natural variation in thermomorphogenesis. We found little evidence that the polyQ tract plays a specific role in thermal responses beyond modulating general ELF3 function. Instead, we made the serendipitous discovery that ELF3 plays a crucial, PIF4-independent role in thermoresponsive flowering under conditions more likely to reflect field conditions. We present evidence that ELF3 acts through the photoperiodic pathway, pointing to a previously unknown symmetry between low and high ambient temperature responses. Moreover, in analyzing two strain backgrounds with vastly different thermal responses, we demonstrate that responses may be shifted rather than fundamentally rewired across strains. Our findings tie together disparate observations into a coherent framework in which multiple pathways converge in accelerating flowering in response to temperature, with some such pathways modulated by photoperiod.', u'The structure of fitness landscapes is critical for understanding adaptive protein evolution (e.g. antimicrobial resistance, affinity maturation, etc.). Due to limited throughput in fitness measurements, previous empirical studies on fitness landscapes were confined to either the neighborhood around the wild type sequence, involving mostly single and double mutants, or a combinatorially complete subgraph involving only two amino acids at each site. In reality, however, the dimensionality of protein sequence space is higher (20L, L being the length of the relevant sequence) and there may be higher-order interactions among more than two sites. To study how these features impact the course of protein evolution, we experimentally characterized the fitness landscape of four sites in the IgG-binding domain of protein G, containing 204 = 160,000 variants. We found that the fitness landscape was rugged and direct paths of adaptation were often constrained by pairwise epistasis. However, while direct paths were blocked by reciprocal sign epistasis, we found systematic evidence that such evolutionary traps could be circumvented by "extra-dimensional bypass". Extra dimensions in sequence space - with a different amino acid at the site of interest or an additional interacting site - open up indirect paths of adaptation via gain and subsequent loss of mutations. These indirect paths alleviate the constraint on reaching high fitness genotypes via selectively accessible trajectories, suggesting that the heretofore neglected dimensions of sequence space may completely change our views on how proteins evolve.', u'Measures of population differentiation, such as FST, are traditionally derived from the ratio of genetic diversity within and between populations. However, the emergence of population clusters from multilocus analysis is a function of genetic structure (departures from panmixia) rather than diversity. If the populations are close to panmixia, slight differences between the mean pairwise distance within and between populations (low FST) can manifest as strong separation between the populations, thus population clusters are often evident even when the vast majority of diversity is partitioned within populations rather than between them. Moreover, because FST utilizes the mean rather than deviations from the mean, it does not directly reflect the strength of separation between population clusters. For any given FST value, clusters can be tighter (more panmictic) or looser (more stratified), and in this respect higher FST does not always imply stronger differentiation. In this study we propose substituting the mean in the FST equation with the standard deviation, thereby deriving a novel measure of population separability, denoted EST , which is more consistent with clustering and classification. To assess the utility of this metric, we ranked various human (HGDP) population pairs based on FST and EST and found substantial differences in ranking order. In some cases examined, most notably among isolated Amazonian tribes, EST ranking seems more consistent with demographic, phylogeographic and linguistic measures of classification compared to FST. Thus, EST may at times outperform FST in identifying evolutionarily significant differentiation.', u"Circadian rhythms are endogenously generated daily oscillations in physiology found in all kingdoms of life. Experimental studies have shown that the fitness of Synechococcus elongatus, a photosynthetic microorganism, is severely affected in non-24h environments. However, it has been difficult to study the effects of clock-environment mismatch on cellular physiology because such measurements require the precise determination of both clock state and growth rates in the same cell. Here, we designed a microscopy platform that allows us to expose cyanobacterial cells to pulses of light and dark while quantitatively measuring their growth, division rate, and circadian clock state over many days. Our measurements reveal that decreased fitness can result from a catastrophic growth arrest caused by unexpected darkness in a small subset of cells with incorrect clock times corresponding to the subjective morning. We find that the clock generates rhythms in the instantaneous growth rate of the cell, and that time of darkness vulnerability coincides with the time of most rapid growth. Thus, the clock mediates a fundamental trade-off between growth and starvation tolerance in cycling environments. By measuring the response of the circadian rhythm to dark pulses of varying lengths, we constrain a mathematical model of a population's fitness under arbitrary light/dark schedules. This model predicts that the circadian clock is only advantageous in highly regular cycling environments with frequencies sufficiently close to the natural frequency of the clock.", u'Bipolar disorder (BD) is a genetically complex mental illness characterized by severe oscillations of mood and behavior. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified several risk loci that together account for a small portion of the heritability. To identify additional risk loci, we performed a two-stage meta-analysis of >9 million genetic variants in 9,784 bipolar disorder patients and 30,471 controls, the largest GWAS of BD to date. In this study, to increase power we used ~2,000 lithium-treated cases with a long-term diagnosis of BD from the Consortium on Lithium Genetics, excess controls, and analytic methods optimized for markers on the X-chromosome. In addition to four known loci, results revealed genome-wide significant associations at two novel loci: an intergenic region on 9p21.3 (rs12553324, p = 5.87\xd710-9; odds ratio = 1.12) and markers within ERBB2 (rs2517959, p = 4.53\xd710-9; odds ratio = 1.13). No significant X-chromosome associations were detected and X-linked markers explained very little BD heritability. The results add to a growing list of common autosomal variants involved in BD and illustrate the power of comparing well-characterized cases to an excess of controls in GWAS.', u'Reticulate evolution is thought to accelerate the process of evolution beyond simple genetic drift and selection, helping to rapidly generate novel hybrids with combinations of adaptive traits. However, the long-standing dogma that reticulate evolutionary processes are likewise advantageous for switching ecological niches, as in microbial pathogen host switch events, has not been explicitly tested. We use data from the influenza genome sequencing project and a phylogenetic heuristic approach to show that reassortment, a reticulate evolutionary mechanism, predominates over mutational drift in transmission between different host species. Moreover, as host evolutionary distance increases, reassortment is increasingly favored. We conclude that the greater the quantitative difference between ecological niches, the greater the importance of reticulate evolutionary processes in overcoming niche barriers.', u'The assembly of large, repeat-rich eukaryotic genomes continues to represent a significant challenge in genomics. While long-read technologies have made the high-quality assembly of small, microbial genomes increasingly feasible, data generation can be prohibitively expensive for larger genomes. Fundamental advances in assembly algorithms are thus essential to exploit the characteristics of short and long-read sequencing technologies to consistently and reliably provide high-qualities assemblies in a cost-efficient manner. Here we present a scalable, exact algorithm (OPERA-LG) for the scaffold assembly of large, repeat-rich genomes that exhibits almost an order of magnitude improvement over the state-of-the-art programs in both correctness (>5X on average) and contiguity (>10X). This provides a systematic approach for combining data from different sequencing technologies, as well as a rigorous framework for scaffolding of repetitive sequences. OPERA-LG represents the first in a new class of algorithms that can efficiently assemble large genomes while providing formal guarantees about assembly quality, providing an avenue for systematic augmentation and improvement of 1000s of existing draft eukaryotic genome assemblies.', u'Carrizo Plain National Monument is one of the largest remaining patches of San Joaquin Desert left within the Central Valley of California. It is home to many threatened and endangered species including the San Joaquin kit fox, blunt-nosed leopard lizard, and giant kangaroo rat. The dominant plant lifeform is shrubs. The species Ephedra californica comprises a major proportion of the community within this region and likely also provides key ecosystem services. We used motion sensor trail cameras to examine interactions between animals and these shrubs. This technology is a less invasive alternative to other animal surveying methods such as line transects, radio tracking, and spotlight surveys. Cameras were placed within the shrub understory and in the open (i.e. non-canopied) microhabitats at ground level to estimate animal activity. We hope that this published datanote will allow for easier reuse of our imagery data.', u'The retina extracts visual features for transmission to the brain. Different types of bipolar cell split the photoreceptor input into parallel channels and provide the excitatory drive for downstream visual circuits. Anatomically, mouse bipolar cell types have been described down to the ultrastructural level, but a similarly deep understanding of their functional diversity is lacking. By imaging light-driven glutamate release from more than 11,000 bipolar cell axon terminals in the intact retina, we here show that bipolar cell functional diversity is generated by the balanced interplay of dendritic excitatory inputs and axonal inhibitory inputs. The resultant centre and surround components of bipolar cell receptive fields interact to decorrelate bipolar cell output in the spatial and temporal domain. Our findings highlight the importance of inhibitory circuits in generating functionally diverse excitatory pathways and suggest that decorrelation of parallel visual pathways begins already at the second synapse of the mouse visual system.', u'In the recent years, many protocols aimed at reproducibly sequencing reduced-genome subsets in non-model organisms have been published. Among them, RAD-sequencing is one of the most widely used. It relies on digesting DNA with specific restriction enzymes and performing size selection on the resulting fragments. Despite its acknowledged utility, this method is of limited use with degraded DNA samples, such as those isolated from museum specimens, as these samples are less likely to harbor fragments long enough to comprise two restriction sites making possible ligation of the adapter sequences (in the case of double-digest RAD) or performing size selection of the resulting fragments (in the case of single-digest RAD). Here, we address these limitations by presenting a novel method called hybridization RAD (hyRAD). In this approach, biotinylated RAD fragments, covering a random fraction of the genome, are used as baits for capturing homologous fragments from genomic shotgun sequencing libraries. This simple and cost-effective approach allows sequencing of orthologous loci even from highly degraded DNA samples, opening new avenues of research in the field of museum genomics. Not relying on the restriction site presence, it improves among-sample loci coverage. In a trial study, hyRAD allowed us to obtain a large set of orthologous loci from fresh and museum samples from a non-model butterfly species, with a high proportion of single nucleotide polymorphisms present in all eight analyzed specimens, including 58-year-old museum samples.  The utility of the method was further validated using 49 museum and fresh samples of a Palearctic grasshopper species for which the spatial genetic structure was previously assessed using mtDNA amplicons. The application of the method is eventually discussed in a wider context. As it does not rely on the restriction site presence, it is therefore not sensitive to among-sample loci polymorphisms in the restriction sites that usually causes loci dropout. This should enable the application of hyRAD to analyses at broader evolutionary scales.', u'Single cell RNA sequencing (scRNAseq) technique is becoming increasingly popular for unbiased and high-resolutional transcriptome analysis of heterogeneous cell populations. Despite its many advantages, scRNAseq, like any other genomic sequencing technique, is susceptible to the influence of confounding effects. Controlling for confounding effects in scRNAseq data is thus a crucial step for proper data normalization and accurate downstream analysis. Several recent methodological studies have demonstrated the use of control genes for controlling for confounding effects in scRNAseq studies; the control genes are used to infer the confounding effects, which are then used to normalize target genes of primary interest. However, these methods can be suboptimal as they ignore the rich information contained in the target genes. Here, we develop an alternative statistical method, which we refer to as scPLS, for more accurate inference of confounding effects. Our method is based on partial least squares and models control and target genes jointly to better infer and control for confounding effects. To accompany our method, we develop a novel expectation maximization algorithm for scalable inference. Our algorithm is an order of magnitude faster than standard ones, making scPLS applicable to hundreds of cells and hundreds of thousands of genes. With extensive simulations and comparisons with other methods, we demonstrate the effectiveness of scPLS. We apply scPLS to analyze three scRNAseq data sets to further illustrate its benefits in removing technical confounding effects as well as for removing cell cycle effects.', u'Mutation rates and fitness costs of deleterious mutations are difficult to measure in vivo but essential for a quantitative Understanding of of evolution. Using whole genome deep sequencing data on longitudinal samples during untreated HIV-1 infection, we estimated mutation rates and the distribution of fitness costs in HIV-1 from the temporal dynamics of genetic variation. At approximately neutral sites, mutations accumulate with rates similar to those measured in cell cultures. Genetic diversity at other sites saturates and we estimated the fitness costs at those sites from the time and level of saturation. About half of all non-synonymous mutations have fitness costs greater than 10%, while half of synonymous mutations have costs below 1% such that they are essentially neutral over the course of a year. Fitness costs of mutations that are synonymous in one gene but affect proteins in other reading frame or important RNA structures are distributed similarly to non-synonymous mutations. The within patient fitness landscape explains a large fraction of global HIV-1 group M diversity.', u'Mutualism between endogenous viruses and eukaryotes is still poorly understood. Whole genome data has highlighted the diverse distribution of viral sequences in several eukaryote host genomes. A group of endogenous double-stranded polydnaviruses known as bracoviruses has been identified in parasitic braconid wasp (Hymenoptera). Bracoviruses allow wasps to reproductively co-opt other insect larvae. Bracoviruses are excised from the host genome and injected in to the larva along side the wasp eggs; where they encode proteins that lower host immunity allowing development of parasitoid wasp larvae in the host. Interestingly, putative bracoviral sequences have recently been detected in the first sequenced genome of the tsetse fly (Diptera). This is peculiar since tsetse flies do not share this reproductive lifestyle. To investigate genome rearrangements associated with these unique mutual symbiotic relationships and examine its value as a potential vector control strategy entry point. We use comparative genomics to determine the presence, prevalence and genetic diversity of bracoviruses of five tsetse fly species (G. austeni, G. brevipalpis, G. f. fuscipes, G. m. morsitans and G. pallidipes) and the housefly (Musca domestica). We identify and use four viral Maverick genes as evolutionary models for bracoviruses. This is the first record of homologous bracoviruses in multiple Dipteran genomes. Phylogenetic reconstruction of each gene revealed two major clades that represent the two types of Mavericks. We detect varying magnitudes of purifying selection across these loci except for the poxvirus A32 gene, which is under positive selection. Moreover, these genes were inserted at conserved regions and co-evolve at similar rates with the host genomes.', u"In addition to detecting novel transcripts and higher dynamic range, a principal claim for RNA-sequencing has been greater replicability, typically measured in sample-sample correlations of gene expression levels. Through a re-analysis of ENCODE data, we show that replicability of transcript abundances will provide misleading estimates of the replicability of conditional variation in transcript abundances (i.e., most expression experiments). Heuristics which implicitly address this problem have emerged in quality control measures to obtain 'good' differential expression results. However, these methods involve strict filters such as discarding low expressing genes or using technical replicates to remove discordant transcripts, and are costly or simply ad hoc. As an alternative, we model gene-level replicability of differential activity using co-expressing genes. We find that sets of housekeeping interactions provide a sensitive means of estimating the replicability of expression changes, where the co-expressing pair can be regarded as pseudo-replicates of one another. We model the effects of noise that perturbs a gene's expression within its usual distribution of values and show that perturbing expression by only 5% within that range is readily detectable (AUROC~0.73). We have made our method available as a set of easily implemented R scripts.", u'Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) lineage identification and typing of clinical isolates in general is performed only retrospectively. The results are rarely linked to drug susceptibility testing (DST) or patient data. Consequently, the association between Mtb lineage, (multi)drug resistance and treatment history is not fully explored at the local level. Here we evaluated a new SNP based typing assay. We furthermore assessed the added value of genotyping of Mtb isolates for epidemiological purposes and guidance of tuberculosis (TB) control. Mtb lineage, DST profile and treatment history were determined for 399 samples at the National TB Reference Laboratory (NRL) in Tbilisi, Georgia by local staff. Data was shared electronically and analysis was performed remotely. Out of 399 isolates, 74 (74/399, 18.5%) were at least multidrug resistant (MDR)-TB, of which 63 (63/74, 85.1%) were members of three different Mtb Beijing lineages. Previous treatment was reported in 38/74 (51.4%) MDR(+) patients. The availability of this data allows associations with lineages. Notably, multidrug resistant TB was more strongly associated with the Beijing lineage than treatment history. Of all MDR-TB Beijing strains 56.7% (42/74) were members of a genetic cluster. This is most easily explained by (ongoing) MDR-TB transmission rather than drug resistance amplification. This knowledge is useful when designing intervention strategies for MDR-TB. Our study provides an example that on-site integrated Mtb genotyping is realistic and could support TB control activities.', u'Boolean implications (if-then rules) provide a conceptually simple, uniform and highly scalable way to find associations between pairs of random variables. In this paper, we describe their usage in mining associations from large, heterogeneous cancer data sets. Next, we illustrate how Boolean implications were used to discover a new causal association between a mutation and aberrant DNA hypermethylation in acute myeloid leukemia as well as the therapeutic implications of this discovery. We conclude with a brief description of how Boolean implications can be extracted from a given data set.', u'Sex differences in susceptibility and progression have been reported in numerous diseases. Female cells have two copies of the X chromosome with X-chromosome inactivation imparting mono-allelic gene silencing for dosage compensation. Such differences in transcriptional status between the copies in female and copy numbers between sexes pose a challenge to genomic data analyses of the X. A subset of genes, named escapees, escape silencing and are transcribed bi-allelically resulting in sexual dimorphism. Here we conducted analyses of the sexes using human datasets to gain perspectives in such regulation. \n\nWe first identified transcription start sites of escapees (escTSSs) based on higher transcription levels in female cells using FANTOM5 Cap Analysis of Gene Expression data. Greater similarity of DNA methylation levels between the sexes was found to be consistent with bi-allelic activity at these escTSSs. The significant over-representations of YY1 transcription factor binding motif and ChIP-seq peaks around escTSSs highlighted its positive association with escapees. Furthermore, YY1 occupancy is significantly biased towards the inactive X (Xi) at long non-coding RNA loci that are frequent contacts of previously reported Xi-specific superloops in female GM12878 cells. Aside from revealing the unique properties of the X as reflected by genomic datasets, our study elucidated the importance of YY1 on transcriptional activity on Xi in general through sequence-specific binding, and its involvement at anchor regions of Xi-specific chromatin superloops.', u'Naa10 is a N\u03b1-terminal acetyltransferase that, in a complex with its auxiliary subunit Naa15,\nco-translationally acetylates the \u03b1-amino group of newly synthetized proteins as they emerge from\nthe ribosome. Roughly 40-50% of the human proteome is acetylated by Naa10, rendering this an\nenzyme with one of the most broad substrate specificities known. Despite this, very little is known\nabout the functional consequences of this modification. Recently, we reported a X-linked disorder\nof infancy, Ogden syndrome, in two families harboring a c.109T>C (p.Ser37Pro) variant in\nNAA10. In the present study we performed in-depth characterization of a yeast model of Ogden\nsyndrome. Stress tests and proteomic analyses suggest that the S37P mutation disrupts Naa10\nfunction thereby reducing cellular fitness, possibly due to an impaired functionality of molecular chaperones, Hsp104, Hsp40 and the Hsp70 family. Microarray and RNAseq revealed a pseudodiploid\ngene expression profile in \u0394Naa10 cells, likely responsible for a mating defect due to\nreduced N-terminal acetylation of the Naa10 substrates Orc1 and Sir3. In conclusion, the data\npresented here further support the disruptive nature of the S37P/Ogden mutation and identify\naffected cellular processes, potentially contributing to the severe phenotype seen in Ogden\nsyndrome.', u'Gene set enrichment approaches have been increasingly successful in finding signals of recent polygenic selection in the human genome. In this study, we aim at detecting biological pathways affected by positive selection in more ancient human evolutionary history, that is in four branches of the primate tree that lead to modern humans. We tested all available protein coding gene trees of the Primates clade for signals of adaptation in the four branches mentioned above, using the likelihood-based branch site test of positive selection. The results of these locus-specific tests were then used as input for a gene set enrichment test, where whole pathways are globally scored for a signal of positive selection, instead of focusing only on outlier "significant" genes. We identified several pathways enriched for signals of positive selection, which are mainly involved in immune response, sensory perception, metabolism, and energy production. These pathway-level results were highly significant, at odds with an absence of any functional enrichment when only focusing on top scoring genes. Interestingly, several gene sets are found significant at multiple levels in the phylogeny, but in such cases different genes are responsible for the selection signal in the different branches, suggesting that the same function has been optimized in different ways at different times in primate evolution.', u'Chest pain is a leading reason patients seek medical evaluation. While assays to detect myocyte death are used to diagnose a heart attack (acute myocardial infarction, AMI), there is no biomarker to indicate an impending cardiac event. Transcriptional patterns present in circulating\nendothelial cells (CEC) may provide a window into the plaque rupture process and identify a proximal biomarker for AMI. Thus, we aimed to identify a transcriptomic signature of AMI present in whole blood, but derived from CECs. Candidate genes indicative of AMI were nominated from microarray of enriched CEC samples, and then verified for detectability and predictive potential via qPCR in whole blood. This signature was validated in an independent cohort. Our findings suggest that a whole blood CEC-derived molecular signature identifies patients with AMI and sets the framework to potentially identify the earlier stages of an impending cardiac event where conventional biomarkers indicative of myonecrosis remain undetected.', u'Thousands of long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) genes are encoded in the human genome, and hundreds of them are evolutionary conserved, but their functions and modes of action remain largely obscure. Particularly enigmatic lncRNAs are those that are exported to the cytoplasm, including NORAD - an abundant and highly conserved cytoplasmic lncRNA. Most of the sequence of NORAD is comprised of repetitive units that together contain at least 17 functional binding sites for the two Pumilio homologs in mammals. Through binding to PUM1 and PUM2, NORAD modulates the mRNA levels of their targets, which are enriched for genes involved in chromosome segregation during cell division. Our results suggest that some cytoplasmic lncRNAs function by modulating the activities of RNA binding proteins, an activity which positions them at key junctions of cellular signaling pathways.', u'Background. This paper re-analyzes the gene set data from Fredrickson et al. (2013) and Fredrickson et al. (2015) which purportedly showed opposing effects of hedonic and eudaimonic happiness on the expression levels of a set of genes that have been correlated with social adversity.\nMethods. Four non-parametric methods were used to test the two null hypotheses addressed in the original studies (H0 : Hedonia = 0 and H0 : Eudaimonia = 0) as well as the null hypothesis of no difference in effect between hedonic and eudaimonic happiness (H0 : Hedonia \u2212 Eudaimonia = 0).\nResults. Standardized effects (mean partial regression coefficients) of Hedonia and Eudaimonia on gene expression levels are very small in both the 2013 and 2015 data, as well as the combined data. The p-values from all four tests are similar in magnitude and fail to reject any of the null models.\nDiscussion. The results unambiguously fail to support opposing effects, or any detectable effect, of hedonic and eudaimonic happiness on the pattern of gene expression. The apparently replicated pattern of gene expression is simply correlated noise due to the geometry of multiple regression given the strongly correlated measures of hedonic and eudaimonic happiness.', u'Budding yeast has undergone several independent transitions from commercial to clinical lifestyles. The frequency of such transitions suggests that clinical yeast strains are derived from environmentally available yeast populations, including commercial sources. However, despite their important role in adaptive evolution, the prevalence of polyploidy and aneuploidy has not extensively analyzed in clinical strains. In this study, we have looked for patterns governing the transition to clinical invasion in the largest screen of clinical yeast isolates to date. In particular, we have focused on the hypothesis that ploidy changes have influenced adaptive processes. We sequenced 145 yeast strains, 132 of which are clinical isolates. We found pervasive large-scale genomic variation in both overall ploidy (34% of strains identified as 3n/4n) and individual chromosomal copy numbers (36% of strains identified as aneuploid). We also found evidence for the highly dynamic nature of yeasts genomes, with 35 strains showing partial chromosomal copy number changes and 8 strains showing multiple independent chromosomal events. Intriguingly, a lineage identified to be baker/commercial derived with a unique damaging mutation in NDC80 was particularly prone to polyploidy, with 83% of its members being triploid or tetraploid. Polyploidy was in turn associated with a >2x increase in aneuploidy rates as compared to other lineages. This dataset provides a rich source of information of the genomics of clinical yeast strains and highlights the potential importance of large-scale genomic copy variation in yeast adaptation.', u'In theory, sensory perception should be more accurate when more neurons contribute to the representation of a stimulus. However, psychophysical experiments that use larger stimuli to activate larger pools of neurons sometimes report impoverished perceptual performance. To determine the neural mechanisms underlying these paradoxical findings, we trained monkeys to discriminate the direction of motion of visual stimuli that varied in size across trials, while simultaneously recording from populations of motion-sensitive neurons in cortical area MT. We used the resulting data to constrain a computational model that explained the behavioral data as an interaction of three main mechanisms: noise correlations, which prevented stimulus information from growing with stimulus size; neural surround suppression, which decreased sensitivity for large stimuli; and a read-out strategy that emphasized neurons with receptive fields near the stimulus center. These results suggest that paradoxical percepts reflect tradeoffs between sensitivity and noise in neuronal populations.', u"Plant small RNAs are subject to various modifications. Previous reports revealed widespread 3' modifications (truncations and non-templated tailing) of plant miRNAs when the 2'-O-methyltransferase HEN1 is absent. However, non-templated nucleotides in plant heterochromatic siRNAs have not been deeply studied, especially in wild-type plants. We systematically studied non-templated nucleotide patterns in plant small RNAs by analyzing small RNA sequencing libraries from Arabidopsis, tomato, Medicago, rice, maize, and Physcomitrella. Elevated rates of non-templated nucleotides were observed at the 3' ends of both miRNAs and endogenous siRNAs from wild-type specimens of all species. 'Off-sized' small RNAs, such as 25 and 23 nt siRNAs arising from loci dominated by 24 nt siRNAs, often had very high rates of 3'-non-templated nucleotides. The same pattern was observed in all species that we studied. Further analysis of 24 nt siRNA clusters in Arabidopsis revealed distinct patterns of 3'-non-templated nucleotides of 23 nt siRNAs arising from heterochromatic siRNA loci. This pattern of non-templated 3' nucleotides on 23 nt siRNAs is not affected by loss of known small RNA 3'-end modifying enzymes, and may result from modifications added to longer heterochromatic siRNA precursors.", u'The Wnt/\u03b2-catenin signaling pathway is important for multiple developmental processes and tissue maintenance in adults. Consequently, deregulated signaling is involved in a range of human diseases including cancer and developmental defects. A better understanding of the intricate regulatory mechanism and effect of physiological (active) and pathophysiological (hyperactive) WNT signaling is important for predicting treatment response and developing novel therapies. The constitutively expressed CTNNB1 (commonly and hereafter referred to as \u03b2-catenin) is degraded by a destruction complex, composed of amongst other AXIN1 and GSK3. The destruction complex is inhibited during active signaling leading to \u03b2-catenin stabilization and induction of \u03b2-catenin/TCF target genes. In this study we investigated the mechanism and effect of \u03b2-catenin stabilization during active and hyperactive WNT signaling in a combined in silico and in vitro approach. We constructed a Petri net model of Wnt/\u03b2-catenin signaling including main players from the plasma membrane (WNT ligands and receptors), cytoplasmic effectors and the downstream negative feedback target gene AXIN2. We simulated the model with active (i.e. WNT stimulation) and hyperactive (i.e. GSK3 inhibition) signaling, which led to the following observations: 1) A dose- and time-dependent response was observed for both WNT stimulation and GSK3 inhibition. 2) The Wnt-pathway activity was 2-fold higher for GSK3 inhibition compared to WNT stimulation. Both of these observations were corroborated by TCF/LEF luciferase reporter assays. Using this experimentally validated model we simulated the effect of the negative feedback regulator AXIN2 upon WNT stimulation and observed an attenuated \u03b2-catenin stabilization. We furthermore simulated the effect of APC inactivating mutations, yielding a stabilization of \u03b2-catenin levels comparable to the Wnt-pathway activities observed in colorectal and breast cancer. Our model can be used for further investigation and viable predictions of the role of Wnt/\u03b2-catenin signaling in oncogenesis and development.', u"Elucidating the genetic, and neuronal bases for learned behavior is a central problem in neuroscience. A leading system for neurogenetic discovery is the vinegar fly Drosophila melanogaster; fly memory research has identified genes and circuits that mediate aversive and appetitive learning. However, methods to study adaptive food-seeking behavior in this animal have lagged decades behind rodent feeding analysis, largely due to the challenges presented by their small scale. There is currently no method to dynamically control flies' access to food. In rodents, protocols that use dynamic food delivery are a central element of experimental paradigms that date back to the influential work of Skinner. This method is still commonly used in the analysis of learning, memory, addiction, feeding, and many other subjects in experimental psychology. The difficulty of microscale food delivery means this is not a technique used in fly behavior. In the present manuscript we describe a microfluidic chip integrated with machine vision and automation to dynamically control defined liquid food presentations and sensory stimuli. Strikingly, repeated presentations of food at a fixed location produced improvements in path efficiency during food approach. This shows that improved path choice is a learned behavior. Active control of food availability using this microfluidic system is a valuable addition to the methods currently available for the analysis of learned feeding behavior in flies.", u'Genetic assimilation results from selection on phenotypic plasticity, but quantitative genetics models of linear reaction norms considering intercept and slope as traits do not fully incorporate the process of genetic assimilation. We argue that intercept-slope reaction norm models are insufficient representations of genetic effects on linear reaction norms, and that considering reaction norm intercept as a trait is unfortunate because the definition of this trait relates to a specific environmental value (zero) and confounds genetic effects on reaction norm elevation with genetic effects on environmental perception. Instead we suggest a model with three traits representing genetic effects that respectively (i) are independent of the environment, (ii) alter the sensitivity of the phenotype to the environment, and (iii) determine how the organism perceives the environment. The model predicts that, given sufficient additive genetic variation in environmental perception, the environmental value at which reaction norms tend to cross will respond rapidly to selection after an abrupt environmental change, and eventually become equal to the new mean environment. This readjustment of the zone of canalization becomes completed without changes in genetic correlations, genetic drift or imposing any fitness costs on maintaining plasticity. The asymptotic evolutionary outcome of this three-trait linear reaction norm generally entails a lower degree of phenotypic plasticity than the two-trait model, and maximum expected fitness does not occur at the mean trait values in the population.', u'Rodent defense behavior assays have been widely used as preclinical models of anxiety to study possibly therapeutic anxiety-reducing interventions. However, some proposed anxiety-modulating factors - genes, drugs and stressors - have had discordant effects across different studies. To reconcile the effect sizes of purported anxiety factors, we conducted systematic review and meta-analyses of the literature on ten anxiety-linked interventions, as examined in the elevated plus maze, open field and light-dark box assays. Diazepam, 5-HT1A receptor gene knockout and overexpression, SERT gene knockout and overexpression, pain, restraint, social isolation, corticotropin-releasing hormone and Crhr1 were selected for review. Eight interventions had statistically significant effects on rodent anxiety, while Htr1a overexpression and Crh knockout did not. Evidence for publication bias was found in the diazepam, Htt knockout, and social isolation literatures. The Htr1a and Crhr1 results indicate a disconnect between preclinical science and clinical research. Furthermore, the meta-analytic data confirmed that genetic SERT anxiety effects were paradoxical in the context of the clinical use of SERT inhibitors to reduce anxiety.', u"Speciation usually proceeds in a continuum from intensively hybridizing populations until the formation of irreversibly isolated species. Restriction of interspecific gene flow may often be achieved by gradual accumulation of intrinsic postzygotic incompatibilities with hybrid infertility typically evolving more rapidly than inviability. A reconstructed history of speciation in European loaches (Cobitis) reveals that accumulation of postzygotic reproductive incompatibilities may take an alternative, in the literature largely neglected, pathway through initiation of hybrids' asexuality rather than through a decrease in hybrids' fitness. Combined evidence shows that contemporary Cobitis species readily hybridize in hybrid zones, but their gene pools are isolated as hybridization produces infertile males and fertile but clonally reproducing females that cannot mediate introgressions. Nevertheless, coalescent analyses indicated intensive historical gene flow during earlier stages of Cobitis diversification, suggesting that non-clonal hybrids must have existed in the past. The revealed patterns imply that during the initial stages of speciation, hybridization between little diverged species produced recombinant hybrids mediating gene flow, but growing divergence among species caused disrupted meiosis in hybrids resulting in their clonality, which acts as a barrier to gene flow. Comparative analysis of published data on other fish hybrids corroborated the generality of our findings; the species pairs producing asexual hybrids were more genetically diverged than those pairs producing fertile sexual hybrids but less diverged than species pairs producing infertile hybrids. Hybrid asexuality therefore appears to evolve at lower divergence than other types of postzygotic barriers and might thus represent a primary reproductive barrier in many taxa.", u"Computational models used in biology are rapidly increasing in complexity, size, and numbers. To build such large models, researchers need to rely on software tools for model retrieval, model combination, and version control. These tools need to be able to quantify the differences and similarities between computational models.\nHowever, depending on the specific application, the notion of similarity may greatly vary. A general notion of model similarity, applicable to various types of models, is still missing. Here, we introduce a general notion of quantitative model similarities, survey the use of existing model comparison methods in model building and management, and discuss potential applications of model comparison. \nTo frame model comparison as a general problem, we describe a theoretical approach to defining and computing similarities based on different\nmodel aspects. Potentially relevant aspects of a model comprise its references to biological entities, network structure, mathematical equations and parameters, and dynamic behaviour. Future similarity measures could combine these model aspects in flexible, problem-specific ways in order to mimic users' intuition about model similarity, and to support complex model searches in databases.", u'Fossil age data and molecular sequences are increasingly combined to establish a timescale for the Tree of Life. Arthropods, as the most species-rich and morphologically disparate animal phylum, have received substantial attention, particularly with regard to questions such as the timing of habitat shifts (e.g., terrestrialisation), genome evolution (e.g., gene family duplication and functional evolution), origins of novel characters and behaviours (e.g., wings and flight, venom, silk), biogeography, rate of diversification (e.g., Cambrian explosion, insect coevolution with angiosperms, evolution of crab body plans), and the evolution of arthropod microbiomes. We present herein a series of rigorously vetted calibration fossils for arthropod evolutionary history, taking into account recently published guidelines for best practice in fossil calibration. These are restricted to Palaeozoic and Mesozoic fossils, no deeper than ordinal taxonomic level, nonetheless resulting in 79 fossil calibrations for 101 clades. This work is especially timely owing to the rapid growth of molecular sequence data and the fact that many included fossils have been described within the last five years. This contribution provides a resource for systematists and other biologists interested in deep-time questions in arthropod evolution.', u'Nanotechnology and its promises for clinical translation to targeted drug delivery with limited accompanying toxicity provide exciting research opportunities that demands multidisciplinary approaches. The colloidal metallic systems have been recently investigated in the area of nanomedicine. Gold nanoparticles have found themselves useful for diagnostics and drug delivery applications. In this study, we have reported a novel method for the synthesis of gold nanoparticles using natural, biocompatible and biodegradable chitosan which came from deacetylating chitin from Portunus Pelagicus. It serves many purposes, as a reducing agent, stabilizer and absorption and penetration enhancer. \nErythropoietin would have high loading efficiency with chitosan reduced gold nanoparticles; the binding is predominantly through hydrogen bonding. Chitosan reduced gold nanoparticles improve the pharmacodynamics and cellular uptake of Erythropoietin across mucosal sites and have immunoadjuvant properties.\nThere is almost 50 % shell waste in crustacean industry. It is resourceful if it would be bioconverted. The process of bioconversion is deproteination, demineralization and deacetylation to obtain chitosan. In synthesizing gold nanoparticles, 1.48 x 10-2 M chloroauric acid will be reduced by heating for 15 minutes in 100mL chitosan solution prepared in 1% acetic acid to yield a ruby-red solution. Erythropoietin would be loaded into it and will undergo 13,000rpm of centrifuge followed by calculating the loading efficiency.', u'Summary: Assemblytics is a web app for detecting and analyzing structural variants from a de novo genome assembly aligned to a reference genome. It incorporates a unique anchor filtering approach to increase robustness to repetitive elements, and identifies six classes of variants based on their distinct alignment signatures. Assemblytics can be applied both to comparing aberrant genomes, such as human cancers, to a reference, or to identify differences between related species. Multiple interactive visualizations enable in-depth explorations of the genomic distributions of variants. \nAvailability and Implementation: http://qb.cshl.edu/assemblytics, https://github.com/marianattestad/assemblytics \nContact: mnattest@cshl.edu', u'Background\nThe underlying strategies used by influenza A viruses (IAVs) to adapt to new hosts while crossing the species barrier are complex and yet to be understood completely. Several studies have been published identifying singular genomic signatures that indicate such a host switch. The complexity of the problem suggested that in addition to the singular signatures, there might be a combinatorial use of such genomic features, in nature, defining adaptation to hosts.. \nResults\nWe used computational rule-based modeling to identify combinatorial sets of interacting amino acid (aa) residues in 12 proteins of IAVs of H1N1 and H3N2 subtypes. We built highly accurate rule-based models for each protein that could differentiate between viral aa sequences coming from avian and human hosts, . We found 68 combinations of aa residues associated to host adaptation (HAd) on HA, M1, M2, NP, NS1, NEP, PA, PA-X, PB1 and PB2 proteins of the H1N1 subtype and 24 on M1, M2, NEP, PB1 and PB2 proteins of the H3N2 subtypes. In addition to these combinations, we found 132 novel singular aa signatures distributed among all proteins, including the newly discovered PA-X protein, of both subtypes. We showed that HA, NA, NP, NS1, NEP, PA-X and PA proteins of the H1N1 subtype carry H1N1-specific and HA, NA, PA-X, PA, PB1-F2 and PB1 of the H3N2 subtype carry H3N2-specific HAd signatures. M1, M2, PB1-F2, PB1 and PB2 of H1N1 subtype, in addition to H1N1 signatures, also carry H3N2 signatures. Similarly M1, M2, NP, NS1, NEP and PB2 of H3N2 subtype were shown to carry both H3N2 and H1N1 HAd signatures.\nConclusions\nTo sum it up, we computationally constructed simple IF-THEN rule-based models that could distinguish between aa sequences of virus particles originating from avian and human hosts. From the rules we identified combinations of aa residues as signatures facilitating the adaptation to specific hosts. The identification of combinatorial aa signatures suggests that the process of adaptation of IAVs to a new host is more complex than previously suggested. The present study provides a basis for further detailed studies with the aim to elucidate the molecular mechanisms providing the foundation for the adaptation process.', u'Recent and ongoing discoveries in the field of extracellular electron transport offer the potential to electrically power highly flexible, carbon-fixing microbial metabolisms and generate a rich variety of chemicals and fuels. This process, electrosynthesis, creates the opportunity to use biology for the low cost storage of renewable electricity and the synthesis of fuels that produce no net carbon dioxide. This article highlights recent discoveries on the molecular machinery underpinning electrosynthesis and reviews recent work on the energy conversion efficiency of photosynthesis to begin to establish a framework to quantify the overall energy storage and conversion efficiency of electrosynthesis.', u'The association of Guillain-Barr\xe9 syndrome with Zika virus infection raises suspicion of autoimmunity in the pathogenesis of Zika associated disease. Using computational analysis to identify predicted B and T cell epitopes, we assessed whether antibodies elicited by B cell epitopes in Zika virus may also target B cell epitopes in the human proteome. We detected amino acid motifs predicted to be B cell epitopes in Zika virus proteins which are also present in human proteins, including pro-neuropeptide Y (proNPY), NAV2 and other proteins with interacting neurophysiologic function. We examine the predicted MHC binding of peptides likely to provide T cell help to the potential mimic epitopes. Some potential mimic epitopes in Zika virus envelope have apparently strong T cell help, likely facilitating immunoglobulin class switch. We also identify epitope mimic commonalities with dengue serotypes 1 and 3. We hypothesize that antibodies to Zika virus epitopes may contribute to the pathogenesis of Zika-associated Guillain-Barr\xe9 syndrome, microcephaly, and ocular lesions, and may be a driver of autoimmunity. The risk associated with responses to potential epitope mimics must be addressed in the development of vaccines and therapeutics for Zika virus infections.', u'Wolbachia is one of the best known bacterial endosymbionts affecting insects and nematodes. It is estimated that it infects 40% of insect species, so epidemiologically it may be considered a pandemic species. However, the mechanisms by which it is acquired from other species (horizontal transmission) or by which it coevolves with its hosts as a result of vertical transmission across generations are not known in detail. In fact, there are few systems in which the codivergence between host and bacterium has been described.\nThis study goes in deep in the Wolbachia infection in the grasshopper Chorthippus parallelus. This well-known system allows us to investigate the mechanism of acquisition of various Wolbachia strains in a new host, and the bacterial genomic changes during bacterial-host codivergence: We describe the genetic diversity of Wolbachia strains infecting both subspecies of C. parallelus and analyse their phylogenetic relationship. We also show the emergence of new bacterial alleles resulting from recombination events in Wolbachia infecting hybrid hosts. Our data suggest that F strains detected in this grasshopper have co-diverged with its host, versus a more recent horizontal transmission of B strains. According with this, we discuss the potential role of Wolbachia in the dynamics of the grasshopper hybrid zone and in the divergence of the two grasshopper subspecies since the origin of their hybrid zone.', u'Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is a complex process by which cells acquire invasive properties that enable escape from the primary tumor. Complete EMT, however, is not required for metastasis: circulating tumor cells exhibit hybrid epithelial-mesenchymal states, and genetic perturbations promoting partial EMT induce metastasis in vivo. An open question is whether and to what extent intermediate stages of EMT promote invasiveness. Here, we investigate this question, building on recent observation of a new invasive property. Migrating cancer cell lines and cells transduced with prometastatic genes slide around other cells on spatially-confined, fiber-like micropatterns. We show here that low-dosage/short-duration exposure to TGF\u03b2 induces partial EMT and enables sliding on narrower (26 \u03bcm) micropatterns than untreated counterparts (41 \u03bcm). High-dosage/long-duration exposure induces more complete EMT, including disrupted cell-cell contacts and reduced E-cadherin expression, and promotes sliding on the narrowest (15 \u03bcm) micropatterns. These results demonstrate that EMT is a potent inducer of cell sliding, even under significant spatial constraints, and EMT-mediated invasive sliding is progressive, with partial EMT promoting intermediate sliding behavior. Our findings suggest a model in which fiber maturation and partial EMT work synergistically to promote invasiveness during cancer progression.', u'The objective of this study was to identify SNPs in the coding sequence of the leptin receptor gene and to test for their possible association with 20 economically advantageous traits in 15 generations of 2 selected (HBW and LBW) and a control of japanase quail. A 350-bp part of the leptin receptor coding region was amplified and sequenced and understood that the fragment contained 7 SNPs (GenBank: KP674322.1-KP674328.1) that were detected in 5 loci (T3216C, T3265C, T3265G, C3265G, T3303C, A3311G, and T3347C) in a total of 30 individuals. The T3216C and T3303C SNPs located at the end of the codon were synonymous and did not affect the presence of proline. However, phenylalanine, leucine and valine were produced when the T3265C, T3265G and C3265G SNPs, respectively, were present. Glutamine or arginine was produced when the A3311G SNP was A or G, respectively, and serine was produced when the T3347C SNP was C. Although codons and amino acid sequences changed due to the second SNP, the secondary protein structure was not changed. However, the fourth and fifth SNPs changed both the amino acid sequences and secondary protein structure. \nPairing the SNP loci with phenotypic traits created haplogroups. When all individuals were evaluated together, some of the differences between the haplogroups were statistically significant (p<0.05; p<0.01). These results showed that both the sequence and structure of the leptin receptor gene could be altered by long-term selection. However, to achieve a more precise understanding of the role of leptin, entire coding sequences of leptin and the leptin receptor should be studied.', u'Regulation of cell growth rate is essential for maintaining cellular homeostasis and survival in diverse conditions. Changes in cell growth rate result in changes in rRNA and tRNA content, but the effect of cell growth rate on mRNA abundance is not known.  We developed a new method for measuring absolute transcript abundances using RNA-seq, SPike in-based Absolute RNA Quantification (SPARQ), that does not assume a constant transcriptome size and applied it to the model eukaryote, Saccharomyces cerevisiae (budding yeast), grown at different rates.  We find that increases in cell growth rate result in increased absolute abundance of almost every transcript, with significant coordinated changes in abundances among functionally related transcripts.  mRNA degradation and synthesis rates increase with increased growth rate, but to differing extents, resulting in the observed net increases in absolute abundance. We propose that regulation of ribosome abundance links environmental conditions to transcriptome amplification via nutrient-sensing pathways.', u'Elizabethkingia anophelis is an emerging pathogen. Genomic analysis of strains from clinical, environmental or mosquito sources is needed to understand the epidemiological emergence of E. anophelis and to uncover genetic elements implicated in antimicrobial resistance, pathogenesis, or niche adaptation. Here, the genomic sequences of two nosocomial isolates that caused neonatal meningitis in Bangui, Central African Republic, were determined and compared with Elizabethkingia isolates from other world regions and sources. Average nucleotide identity firmly confirmed that E. anophelis, E. meningoseptica and E. miricola represent distinct genomic species and led to re-identification of several strains. Phylogenetic analysis of E. anophelis strains revealed several sublineages and demonstrated a single evolutionary origin of African clinical isolates, which carry unique antimicrobial resistance genes acquired by horizontal transfer. The Elizabethkingia genus and the species E. anophelis had pan-genomes comprising respectively 7,801 and 6,880 gene families, underlining their genomic heterogeneity. African isolates were capsulated and carried a distinctive capsular polysaccharide synthesis cluster. A core-genome multilocus sequence typing scheme applicable to all Elizabethkingia isolates was developed, made publicly available (http://bigsdb.web.pasteur.fr/elizabethkingia), and shown to provide useful insights into E. anophelis epidemiology. Furthermore, a clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR) locus was uncovered in E. meningoseptica, E. miricola and in a few E. anophelis strains. CRISPR spacer variation was observed between the African isolates, illustrating the value of CRISPR for strain subtyping. This work demonstrates the dynamic evolution of E. anophelis genomes and provides innovative tools for Elizabethkingia identification, population biology and epidemiology.', u'Single-cell analyses of transcript and protein expression profiles - more precisely, single-cell resolution analysis of molecular profiles of cell populations - have now entered center stage with the wide application of single-cell qPCR, single-cell RNA-Seq and CytOF. These high-dimensional population snapshots techniques are complemented by low-dimensional time-resolved microscopy-based monitoring methods of individual cells. Both fronts of advance have exposed a rich heterogeneity of cell states within uniform cell populations in many biological contexts, producing a new kind of data that has stimulated a series of computational analysis methods for data visualization, dimensionality reduction, and "cluster"(subpopulation) identification. The next step is to go beyond collecting data and correlating data points with computational analyses: to connect the dots, that is, to understand what actually underlies the identified data patterns. This entails interpreting the "clouds of points", each representing a cell in state space, and their structure as manifestation of the regulation by the molecular network. This control of cell state dynamics can be formalized as a quasi-potential landscape, as first proposed by Waddington. We summarize not only key methods of data acquisition and computational analysis but also explain the principles that link the single-cell resolution measurements to dynamical systems theory.', u'Bilateria constitute a monophyletic group of organisms comprising about 99% of all living animals. Since their initial radiation about 540Mya they have evolved a plethora of traits and body forms allowing them to conquer almost any habitat on earth. There are only few truly uniting and shared morphological features retained across the phylum. Unsurprisingly, also the genetic toolkit of bilateria is highly diverged.\nIn the light of this divergence we investigated if a set of Bilaterian-specific genes exists and, beyond this, if such genes are related with respect to function and expression among organisms as distant as fly, worm and fish. Using a conservative pyramidal approach of orthology inference we first employed BLAST to extract a set of protein-coding genes which has orthologs in all major branches of Bilateria, but no homologs in non-Bilaterian species. To characterize the proteins with respect to function, we developed a new method for multi-species GO analysis and augmented it by a human-curated annotation based on an extensive literature search. Finally, we extracted characteristic developmental expression profiles for Bilateria from the detailed data available for three model organisms and we explored the relation between expression and function.\nWe find 85 clusters of pan-bilaterian proteins. Although some of these proteins belong to common developmental processes, they cover a wide range of biological components, from transcription factors to metabolic enzymes. The 85 groups include myoD, an important regulator of mesodermal cell fate and muscle development, and prospero and several other factors involved in nervous system development. They reveal a so far unknown connection between bilaterian key innovations (mesoderm, complex nervous system) and the emergence of new genes in the ancestor of bilaterians. In addition, the majority of these genes tends to be highly expressed when the adult body plan is constructed. These observations are compatible with the idea that bilaterians are characterized by the unfolding of an additional developmental phase, namely the transition of the larva to morphologically distinct adults.', u'The Encyclopedia of DNA elements (ENCODE) project is an ongoing collaborative effort to create a comprehensive catalog of functional elements. The current database exceeds 5500 experiments across more than 350 cell lines and tissues using a wide array of experimental techniques to study the chromatin structure, regulatory and transcriptional landscape of the H. sapiens and M. musculus genomes.  All ENCODE experimental data, metadata, and associated computational analyses are submitted to the ENCODE Data Coordination Center (DCC) for validation, tracking, storage, and distribution to community resources and the scientific community.  As the volume of data increases, the identification and organization of experimental details becomes increasingly intricate and demands careful curation.  The ENCODE DCC has created a general purpose software system, known as SnoVault, that supports metadata and file submission, a database used for metadata storage, web pages for displaying the metadata and a robust API for querying the metadata.   The software is fully open-source, code and installation instructions can be found at: http://github.com/ENCODE-DCC/snovault [need to register this ASAP].   The core database engine, SnoVault (which is completely independent of ENCODE, genomic data, or bioinformatic data) has been released as a separate Python package.', u'Targeted mass spectrometry comprises a set of methods able to quantify protein analytes in complex mixtures with high accuracy and sensitivity. These methods, e.g., Selected Reaction Monitoring (SRM) and SWATH MS, use specific mass spectrometric coordinates (assays) for reproducible detection and quantification of proteins. In this protocol, we describe how to analyze in a targeted manner data from a SWATH MS experiment aimed at monitoring thousands of proteins reproducibly over many samples. We present a standard SWATH MS analysis workflow, including manual data analysis for quality control (based on Skyline) as well as automated data analysis with appropriate control of error rates (based on the OpenSWATH workflow). We also discuss considerations to ensure maximal coverage, reproducibility and quantitative accuracy.', u'The Philippines is one of the major producers of tilapia, the most cultured fish and widely consumed in the world. Although fishes in general is said to be adapted to various stressful conditions, the effect on several cellular immune parameters may be of interest to determine the capacity of the organism to withstand stressors. In this paper, the effect of unleaded petroleum on the splenic macrophage aggregate (MA) formation was studied. This was done to have an overview of the immune response of Tilapia or fishes in general when an oil spill, which almost occur annually at different parts of the world, happen. Histological analysis assessed the area occupied by splenic MA 24 hours after introduction of unleaded petroleum to the aquatic system. To determine whether Mabuhay balls, a technology that claims to be beneficial in terms of improving water quality, was added to one tank (T1) to be able to compare it with another tank (T2).  There is a strong statistically significant difference between the groups at day1 (p=0.000) opposite the result of day 6 (p=0.155). Thus, unleaded petroleum increased MA formation, a sign that may indicate a high immune activity as an initial positive response to stress. Mabuhay ball have lessen the mortality but has no effect on splenic MA formation.', u'Mincle is a C-type lectin known to play a role in innate immune responses to sterile inflammation, but its contribution to pathologies following an ischemic or traumatic injury is not well understood. In the current study we demonstrate a key role for Mincle in ischemic (i.e. transient middle cerebral artery occlusion) but not traumatic central nervous system injury; absence of Mincle also did not significantly alter the extent of tissue damage or functional outcome in peripheral models of ischemic tissue injury. In the stroke model mice lacking Mincle displayed significantly improved functional outcome from focal cerebral ischemia. The functional improvements in Mincle KO animals were accompanied by reduced infiltration of neutrophils and lower levels of proinflammatory cytokines in recruited peripheral blood cells. Bone marrow chimera experiments revealed that presence of Mincle in the central nervous system, but not peripheral immune cells, was the critical regulator of a poor outcome following transient focal cerebral ischemia, however we exclude a direct role for Mincle in microglia or neural activation. We demonstrate that Mincle lacks widespread expression in the brain, but is specifically associated with macrophages resident in the perivascular niche. These findings implicate Mincle in the initiation, extent and severity of local responses to ischemic injury in the brain, but not peripheral tissues. Mincle signalling therefore offers a novel therapeutic target in the quest to limit damage after stroke.', u'Long intergenic non-coding RNAs (lincRNA) are members of a class of non-protein-coding RNA transcript that has recently been shown to contribute to gene regulatory processes and disease etiology. It has been hypothesized that lincRNAs influence disease risk through the regulation of mRNA transcription, possibly by interacting with regulatory proteins such as chromatin-modifying complexes. The hypothesis of the regulation of mRNA by lincRNAs is based on a small number of specific lincRNAs analyses; the cellular roles of lincRNAs regulation have not been catalogued genome-wide. Relative to mRNAs, lincRNAs tend to be expressed at lower levels and in more tissue-specific patterns, making genome-wide studies of their regulatory capabilities difficult. Here we develop a method for Mendelian randomization leveraging expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) that regulate the expression levels of lincRNAs (linc-eQTLs) to perform such a study across four primary tissues. We find that linc-eQTLs are largely similar to protein-coding eQTLs (pc-eQTLs) in cis-regulatory element enrichment, which supports the hypothesis that lincRNAs are regulated by the same transcriptional machinery as protein-coding RNAs and validates our linc-eQTLs. We catalog 74 lincRNAs with linc-eQTLs that are in linkage disequilibrium with TASs and are in protein-coding gene deserts; the putative lincRNA-regulated traits are highly enriched for adipose-related traits relative to mRNA-regulated traits.', u'There has been substantial media attention regarding Zika infection as a threat to pregnancy, prompted by WHOs declaration of a Public Health Event of International Concern (PHEIC).  Here we present a simple risk assessment model for two states within the continental United States at-risk for autochthonous transmission of Zika virus, Texas and Florida.  Our simple impact assessment model is partially validating at this early interval in the crisis.', u'Primary neocortical sensory areas act as central hubs, distributing afferent information to numerous cortical and subcortical structures.  However, it remains unclear whether each downstream target receives distinct versions of sensory information.  We used in vivo calcium imaging combined with retrograde tracing to monitor visual response properties of three distinct subpopulations of projection neurons in primary visual cortex.  While there is overlap across the groups, on average corticotectal (CT) cells exhibit lower contrast thresholds and broader tuning for orientation and spatial frequency in comparison to corticostriatal (CS) cells, while corticocortical (CC) cells have intermediate properties. Noise correlational analyses support the hypothesis that CT cells integrate information across diverse layer 5 populations, whereas CS and CC cells form more selectively interconnected groups.  Overall, our findings demonstrate the existence of functional subnetworks within layer 5 that may differentially route visual information to behaviorally relevant downstream targets.', u'Humans efficiently grasp complex visual environments, making highly consistent judgments of entry-level category despite their high variability in visual appearance. How does the human brain arrive at the invariant neural representations underlying categorization of real-world environments? We here show that the neural representation of visual environments in scenes-selective human visual cortex relies on statistics of contour junctions, which provide cues for the three-dimensional arrangement of surfaces in a scene. We manipulated line drawings of real-world environments such that statistics of contour orientations or junctions were disrupted. Manipulated and intact line drawings were presented to participants in an fMRI experiment. Scene categories were decoded from neural activity patterns in the parahippocampal place area (PPA), the occipital place area (OPA) and other visual brain regions. Disruption of junctions but not orientations led to a drastic decrease in decoding accuracy in the PPA and OPA, indicating the reliance of these areas on intact junction statistics. Accuracy of decoding from early visual cortex, on the other hand, was unaffected by either image manipulation. We further show that the correlation of error patterns between decoding from the scene-selective brain areas and behavioral experiments is contingent on intact contour junctions. Finally, a searchlight analysis exposes the reliance of visually active brain regions on different sets of contour properties. Statistics of contour length and curvature dominate neural representations of scene categories in early visual areas and contour junctions in high-level scene-selective brain regions.', u"Defects in DNA repair, synthesis, and chromosome transmission can often cause chromosome instability, which are understood with respect to molecular-genetic mechanisms. However, transition from descriptive models to quantitative ones is generally difficult. Here we use a computationally intensive numerical technique based on linear programming to analyze the processes of chromosome maintenance during the cell cycle in yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We first experimentally identify 19 genes that when ectopically expressed cause chromosome instability. We then build an 18 x 19 matrix by assaying the genetic interactions of pairs of genes that each normally functions to maintain chromosomes, including the 19 genes discovered here. We then use a 'seriation' algorithm based on linear optimization to find an optimal arrangement of rows and columns to confirm an optimum temporal arrangement of gene influence during cell cycle phases. We experimentally demonstrate that the method yields new biological insights, which we test and validate.", u'Motivation: In 2014, Oxford Nanopore Technologies (ONT) announced a new sequencing platform called MinION. The particular features of MinION reads, longer read lengths and single-molecule sequencing in particular, show potential for genome characterization. As of yet, the pre-commercial technology is exclusively available through early-access, and only a few datasets are publically available for testing. Further, no software exists that simulates MinION platform reads with genuine ONT characteristics.\nResults: In this article, we introduce NanoSim, a fast and scalable read simulator that captures the technology-specific features of ONT data, and allows for adjustments upon improvement of nanopore sequencing technology.\nAvailability: NanoSim is written in Python and R. The source files and manual are available at the Genome Sciences Centre website: http://www.bcgsc.ca/platform/bioinfo/software/nanosim', u'The concept of plant memory triggers a quite controversial dispute on the definition, extent or even existence of such. Because plants are permanently exposed to rapidly changing environments it is evident that they had to evolve mechanisms enabling them to dynamically adapt to such fluctuations. Recognizing memory as a timed response to changes of external inputs through amplification and integration of multiple signals, here we study the short-term illumination memory in Arabidopsis thaliana by monitoring fluorescence emission dynamics. For this, we designed an experiment to systematically determine the extent of non-photochemical quenching (NPQ) after previous light exposure. We propose a simplified, mathematical model of photosynthesis that includes the key components required for NPQ activation.\nDue to its reduced complexity, our model is universally applicable to other species, which we demonstrate by adapting it to the shadow-tolerant plant Epipremnum aureum. We demonstrate that a basic mechanism of short-term light memory, which is based on two interacting components, can explain our experimental observations. The slow component, accumulation of zeaxanthin, accounts for the amount of memory remaining after relaxation in darkness, while the fast one, antennae protonation, increases quenching efficiency. With this combined theoretical and experimental approach we provide a unifying framework that helps to uncover general principles of key photoprotective mechanisms across species.', u'The phase of prestimulus oscillations at 7-10 Hz has been shown to modulate perception of briefly presented visual stimuli. Specifically, a recent combined EEG-fMRI study suggested that a prestimulus oscillation at around 7 Hz represents open and closed windows for perceptual integration by modulating connectivity between lower order occipital and higher order parietal brain regions. We here utilized brief event-related transcranial alternating current stimulation (tACS) to specifically modulate this prestimulus 7 Hz oscillation, and the synchrony between parietal and occipital brain regions. To this end we tested for a causal role of this particular prestimulus oscillation for perceptual integration. The EEG was acquired at the same time allowing us to investigate frequency specific after effects phase-locked to stimulation offset. On a behavioural level our results suggest that the tACS did modulate perceptual integration, however, in an unexpected manner. On an electrophysiological level our results suggest that brief tACS does induce oscillatory entrainment, as visible in frequency specific activity phase-locked to stimulation offset. Together, our results do not strongly support a causal role of prestimulus 7 Hz oscillations for perceptual integration. However, our results suggest that brief tACS is capable of modulating oscillatory activity in a temporally sensitive manner.', u'We construct a statistical model of bacterial two-component signaling (TCS) proteins for predicting amino acid configurations that allow signaling partners to preferentially interact. This model is applied to a recent exhaustive mutational experiment of 4 interfacial residues on the histidine kinase of the magnesium response TCS system in E. coli. We demonstrate that our top mutational predictions can accurately capture experimentally observed mutational variants that preserve interaction specificity between TCS partners. Interestingly, we can isolate the true positive predictions by focusing on mutations that we predict to limit signal transfer with non-partner TCS proteins (i.e., \u201ccross-talk\u201d). This demonstrates that our model also captures the amino acid configurations that lead to \u201ccross-talk\u201d between non-partner TCS proteins, which can be used to engineer specificity. We further supplement our analysis by calculating the mutational change in the binding affinity between TCS partners, supporting the intuitive concept that overly destabilizing mutations disrupt TCS.', u'Background: The dynamics of heterogeneous tumor cell populations competing with healthy cells is an important topic in cancer research with deep implications in biomedicine. Multitude of theoretical and computational models have addressed this issue, especially focusing on the nature of the transitions governing tumor clearance as some relevant model parameters are tuned. In this contribution, we analyze a mathematical model of unstable tumor progression using the quasispecies framework. Our aim is to define a minimal model incorporating the dynamics of competition between healthy cells and a heterogeneous population of cancer cell phenotypes involving changes in replication-related genes (i.e., proto-oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes), in genes responsible for genomic stability, and in house-keeping genes. Such mutations or loss of genes result into different phenotypes with increased proliferation rates and/or increased genomic instabilities. Also, lethal phenotypes with mutations or loss of house-keeping genes are present in our model.\n\nResults: Despite bifurcations in the classical deterministic quasispecies model are typically given by smooth, continuous shifts (i.e., transcritical bifurcations), we here identify an novel type of abrupt transition causing tumor extinction. Such a bifurcation, named as trans-heteroclinic, is characterized by the exchange of stability between two distant fixed points (that do not collide) involving, respectively, tumor persistence and tumor clearance. The increase of mutation and/or the decrease of the replication rate of tumor cells involves this catastrophic shift of tumor cell populations. The transient times near bifurcation thresholds are also characterized, showing a power law dependence of exponent \u22121 of the transients as mutation is changed near the bifurcation value.\n\nConclusions: An abrupt transition involving tumor clearance has been identified with a phenotypic quasispecies cancer model. This result is discussed in the context of targeted cancer therapy as a possible therapeutic strategy to force a catastrophic shift by delivering mutagenic and cytotoxic drugs inside tumor cells. Our model also reveals a novel mechanism causing a discontinuous transition given by the stability exchange of two distant fixed points, which we name as a trans-heteroclinic bifurcation.', u'Graphical models are often employed to interpret patterns of correlations observed in data through a network of interactions between the variables. Recently, Ising/Potts models, also known as Markov random fields, have been productively applied to diverse problems in biology, including the prediction of structural contacts from protein sequence data and the description of neural activity patterns. However, inference of such models is a challenging computational problem that cannot be solved exactly. Here we describe the adaptive cluster expansion (ACE) method to quickly and accurately infer Ising or Potts models based on correlation data. ACE avoids overfitting by constructing a sparse network of interactions sufficient to reproduce the observed correlation data within the statistical error expected due to finite sampling. When convergence of the ACE algorithm is slow, we combine it with a Boltzmann Machine Learning algorithm (BML). We illustrate this method on a variety of biological and artificial data sets and compare it to state-of-the-art approximate methods such as Gaussian and pseudo-likelihood inference.We show that ACE accurately reproduces the true parameters of the underlying model when they are known, and yields accurate statistical descriptions of both biological and artificial data. Models inferred by ACE have substantially better statistical performance compared to those obtained from faster \nGaussian and pseudo-likelihood methods, which only precisely recover the structure of the interaction network.', u'Elevated intraocular pressure is the primary cause of open angle glaucoma. Outflow resistance exists within the trabecular meshwork but also at the level of Schlemm\u2032s canal and further downstream within the outflow system. Viral vectors allow to take advantage of naturally evolved, highly efficient mechanisms of gene transfer, a process that is termed transduction. They can be produced at biosafety level 2 in the lab using protocols that have evolved considerably over the last 15 to 20 years. Applied by an intracameral bolus, vectors follow conventional as well as uveoscleral outflow pathways. They may affect other structures in the anterior chamber depending on their transduction kinetics which can vary among species when using the same vector. Not all vectors can express long-term, a desirable feature to address the chronicity of glaucoma. Vectors that integrate into the genome of the target cell can achieve transgene function for the life of the transduced cell but are mutagenic by definition. The most prominent long-term expressing vector systems are based on lentiviruses that are derived from HIV, FIV, or EIAV. Safety considerations make non-primate lentiviral vector systems easier to work with as they are not derived from human pathogens. Non-integrating vectors are subject to degradation and attritional dilution during cell division. Lentiviral vectors have to integrate in order to express while adeno-associated viral vectors (AAV) often persist as intracellular concatemers but may also integrate. Adeno- and herpes viral vectors do not integrate and earlier generation systems might be relatively immunogenic. Nonviral methods of gene transfer are termed transfection with few restrictions of transgene size and type but often a much less efficient gene transfer that is also short-lived. Traditional gene transfer delivers exons while some vectors (lentiviral, herpes and adenoviral) allow transfer of entire genes that include introns. Recent insights have highlighted the role of non-coding RNA, most prominently, siRNA, miRNA and lncRNA. SiRNA is highly specific, miRNA is less specific, while lncRNA uses highly complex mechanisms that involve secondary structures and intergenic, intronic, overlapping, antisense, and bidirectional location. Several promising preclinical studies have targeted the RhoA or the prostaglandin pathway or modified the extracellular matrix. TGF-\u03b2 and glaucoma myocilin mutants have been transduced to elevate the intraocular pressure in glaucoma models. Cell based therapies have started to show first promise. Past approaches have focused on the trabecular meshwork and the inner wall of Schlemm\u2032s canal while new strategies are concerned with modification of outflow tract elements that are downstream of the trabecular meshwork.', u'Purpose: To quantify regional changes of conventional outflow caused by ab interno trabeculectomy (AIT).\nMethods: Gonioscopic, plasma-mediated ab interno trabeculectomy (AIT; Trabectome, Neomedix, Tustin, CA) was established in enucleated pig eyes. We developed a program to automatically quantify outflow changes (R, package eye-canalogram, github.com) using a fluorescent tracer reperfusion technique. Trabecular meshwork (TM) ablation was demonstrated with fluorescent spheres in 6 eyes before formal outflow quantification with two dye reperfusion canalograms in 6 further eyes. Eyes were perfused with a central, intracameral needle at 15 mmHg. Canalograms and histology were correlated for each eye. \nResults: The pig eye provided a model with high similarity to AIT in human patients. Histology indicated ablation of TM and unroofing of most Schlemms canal segments. Spheres highlighted additional circumferential and radial outflow beyond the immediate area of ablation. Differential canalograms showed that AIT caused an increase of outflow of 17+/-5 fold inferonasally (IN), 14+/-3 fold superonasally (SN) and also an increase in the opposite quadrants with a 2+/-1 fold increase superotemporally (ST) and 3+/-3 inferotemporally (IT). Perilimbal specific flow image analysis showed an accelerated nasal filling with an additional perilimbal flow direction into adjacent quadrants. \nConclusion: A quantitative, differential canalography technique was developed that allows to quantify supraphysiological outflow enhancement by AIT.', u'The increasing prevalence of glaucoma, a leading cause of blindness, makes the development of safer and more effective treatment more urgent. Recently introduced microincisional glaucoma surgeries that enhance conventional outflow offer a favorable risk profile but can be unpredictable. Two paramount challenges are the lack of an adequate surgical training model for new surgeries and the absence of pre- or intraoperative guidance to sites of reduced flow. To address both, we developed an ex vivo training system and a differential, quantitative canalography method to assess outflow enhancement by trabecular micro-bypass (TMB) implantation or by ab interno trabeculectomy (AIT). TMB resulted in insignificant (p>0.05) outflow increases of 13+/-5%, 14+/-8%, 9+/-3%, and 24+/-9% in the inferonasal, superonasal, superotemporal, and inferotemporal quadrants. AIT caused a 100+/-50% (p=0.002), 75+/-28% (p=0.002), 19+/-8%, and 40+/-21% increase in those quadrants. AIT eyes had a 7.5 (p=0.01), 5.7 (p=0.004), 2.3, and 1.8-fold greater outflow enhancement than matching quadrants of paired TMB-implanted eyes. Quantitative canalography demonstrated that TMB, when successful, provided focal outflow enhancements, while AIT achieved a more extensive access to outflow pathways including and beyond the surgical site itself.', u'Plants ameliorate heat stress by avoiding heat loading, reducing tissue temperature through evaporative cooling, and/or through tolerance, i.e. maintaining function at high temperature. Here Arabidopsis thaliana natural populations from two ends of an elevation gradient in NE Spain were used to ask: do plants from contrasting climates 1) show genetically based differences in heat stress damage and 2) adopt different avoidance-tolerance patterns? Four low- and four high-elevation populations were repeatedly exposed to high temperature (45oC) in a growth chamber at bolting stage. High temperature induced 23% more inflorescence branches, 25% longer total reproductive branch length, and 12% less root dry mass, compared with control. However summed fruit length, hence fitness, decreased by 15%, populations did not differ significantly in fitness reduction. High elevation populations showed more avoidance, i.e. lower rosette temperature at 45oC. Low elevation populations showed more tolerance, maintaining relatively higher photosynthetic rate at 45oC. Avoidance was associated with high transpiration rate and flat rosette leaf angle. Tolerance was negatively associated with heat shock protein 101 (Hsp101) and salicylic acid (SA) accumulation. The divergent avoidance tolerance patterns for populations from thermally contrasting climates may indicate both constraints on the evolution and contrasting adaptive divergence regulated by local climates.', u"Systems as diverse as the interacting species in a community, alleles at a genetic locus, and companies in a market are characterized by competition (over resources, space, capital, etc) and adaptation. Neutral theory, built around the hypothesis that individual performance is independent of group membership, has found utility across the disciplines of ecology, population genetics, and economics, both because of the success of the neutral hypothesis in predicting system properties and because deviations from these predictions provide information about the underlying dynamics. However, most tests of neutrality are weak, based on static system properties such as species-abundance distributions or the number of singletons in a sample. Time-series data provide a window onto a system's dynamics, and should furnish tests of the neutral hypothesis that are more powerful to detect deviations from neutrality and more informative about to the type of competitive asymmetry that drives the deviation. \n\nHere, we present a neutrality test for time-series data. We apply this test to several microbial time-series and financial time-series and find that most of these systems are not neutral. Our test isolates the covariance structure of neutral competition, thus facilitating further exploration of the nature of asymmetry in the covariance structure of competitive systems. Much like neutrality tests from population genetics that use relative abundance distributions have enabled researchers to scan entire genomes for genes under selection, we anticipate our time-series test will be useful for quick significance tests of neutrality across a range of ecological, economic, and sociological systems for which time-series data are available. Future work can use our test to categorize and compare the dynamic fingerprints of particular competitive asymmetries (frequency dependence, volatility smiles, etc) to improve forecasting and management of complex adaptive systems.", u'Phenotypic variation in stress response has been widely observed within species. This variation is an adaptive response to local climates and is controlled by gene sequence variation and especially by variation in expression at the transcriptome level. Plants from contrasting climates are thus expected to have different patterns in gene expression. Acclimation, a pre-exposure to sub-lethal temperature before exposing to extreme high temperature, is an important adaptive mechanism of plant survival. We are interested to evaluate the gene expression difference to heat stress for plants from contrasting climates and the role of acclimation in altering their gene expression pattern. Natural Arabidopsis thaliana plants from low elevation mediterranean and high elevation montane climates were exposed to two heat treatments at the bolting stage: a) 45 oC: a direct exposure to 45oC heat; b) 38/45 oC: an exposure to 45oC heat after a 38oC acclimation treatment. Variation in overall gene expression patterns was investigated. We also explored gene expression patterns for Hsp/Hsf pathway and reactive oxygen species (ROS) pathway. In both heat treatments, high elevation plants had more differentially expressed (DE) genes than low elevation plants. In 45 oC, only Hsp/Hsf pathway was activated in low elevation plants; both Hsp/Hsf and ROS pathways were activated in high elevation plants. Small Hsps had the highest magnitude of change in low elevation plants while Hsp70 and Hsp90 showed the largest magnitude of fold in high elevation plants. In 38/45 oC, Hsp/Hsf and ROS pathways were activated in both low and high elevation plants. Low elevation plants showed up-regulation in all Hsps, especially small Hsps; high elevation plants showed down-regulation in all Hsps.  Low elevation and high elevation also adopted different genes in the ROS pathway. We also observed genes that shifted expression in both low and high elevation plants but with opposite directions of change. This study indicates that low and high elevation plants have evolved adaptive divergence in heat stress response. The contrasting patterns of temperature variation in low and high elevation sites appears to have played a strong role in the evolution of divergent patterns to high temperature stress, both pre-acclimation and direct exposure gene expression responses.', u"The similarity property principle states that similar compounds have similar properties. In this study, we demonstrate that validity this principle holds well when the drug targets are protein domains. We leverage the similarity property principle to explore the druggability of CATH-FunFams, a type of protein domain and we use the associations between drugs and CATH-FunFams to explore drug polypharmacology by considering how the drugs' pharmacological effects arise from the molecular targets they interact with. Our results demonstrate that drug protein interactions are mediated by drug-domain interactions and that CATH-FunFams provide a reasonable annotation level for drug-target interactions, opening a new research direction in target identification.", u"Recent theoretical and empirical work has suggested an important role for the motor system in generating predictions about the timing of external events. These predictions may play an important role in peoples' ability to engage in temporally coordinated joint action with other people. As many forms of joint action involve skilled actors, such as musicians and dancers, researchers have recently turned their attention to whether specific motor experience might enhance predictive abilities. We tested the hypothesis that motor experience with an observed action modulates prediction accuracy by comparing the performance of naive and experienced observers on a task that required participants to predict the timing of particular critical points in a ongoing observed action. Crucially, we employed action and non-action stimuli with identical temporal dynamics, and we predicted that motor experience would enhance prediction accuracy specifically for actions and would have a reduced or negligible effect on enhancing prediction accuracy for non-action stimuli. Our results showed that motor experience did modulate prediction accuracy and this resulted in greater accuracy for predictions about action stimuli relative to non-action stimuli. No difference between conditions was observed for the naive observers. This suggests that motor experience with a partners actions might enhance peoples' prediction accuracy and, therefore, their ability to engage in temporally coordinated joint action.", u'IFT52 protein is a conserved intraflagellar transport protein (a part of the IFT complex B) that is essential for assembly and maintenance of cilia. Tetrahymena null mutants with an insertion of a neo gene cassette into the IFT52 gene undergo frequent suppressions that lead to conditional assembly of cilia only under hypoxic conditions (Brown et al. 2003). Here we show that these conditional suppressions are intragenic and occur by a novel mechanism. First, the non-native (bacterial) portion of the DNA sequence of the neo cassette is deleted during the process of genome rearrangement that occurs in the developing macronucleus of conjugating Tetrahymena. Next, the residual sequences of the neo cassette  (of Tetrahymena origin) within the IFT52 mRNA are recognized as multiple introns and undergo splicing, leading to a restoration of the translational frame of IFT52. The resulting hypoxia-dependent IFT52 protein contains an insertion of 43 new amino acids that replace 7 original amino acids. Taken together with a study in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii showing a hypoxia-dependence of another IFT subunit mutant, IFT46, (Hou et al. 2007), our observations generalize that defective IFT complex subunits can regain functionality under hypoxia.', u'Experimental tests on the quantum property of protein folding are discussed.  It includes: the test of the instantaneousness of torsion transition through observation of protein structural change in a short time scale of microsecond; the test of non-Arrhenius temperature dependence of protein folding rate and other biomolecular conformational changes; and the search for the narrow spectral lines of the protein photo-folding.', u'Devil rays (Mobula spp.) face rapidly intensifying fishing pressure to meet the ongoing international trade and demand for their gill plates. This has been exacerbated by trade regulation of manta ray gill plates following their 2014 CITES listing. Furthermore, the paucity of information on growth, mortality, and fishing effort for devil rays make quantifying population growth rates and extinction risk challenging. Here, we use a published size-at-age dataset for a large-bodied devil ray species, the Spinetail Devil Ray (Mobula japanica), to estimate somatic growth rates, age at maturity, maximum age and natural and fishing mortality. From these estimates, we go on to calculate a plausible distribution of the maximum intrinsic population growth rate (rmax) and place the productivity of this large devil ray in context by comparing it to 95 other chondrichthyan species. We find evidence that larger devil rays have low somatic growth rate, low annual reproductive output, and low maximum population growth rates, suggesting they have low productivity. Devil ray maximum intrinsic population growth rate rmax is very similar to that of manta rays, indicating devil rays can potentially be driven to local extinction at low levels of fishing mortality. We show that fishing rates of a small-scale artisanal Mexican fishery were up to three times greater than the natural mortality rate, and twice as high as our estimate of rmax, and therefore unsustainable. Our approach can be applied to assess the limits of fishing and extinction risk of any species with indeterminate growth, even with sparse size-at-age data.', u'Historical and ecological factors influencing population connectivity of stygobiontic and amphibiontic organisms have long been a topic of intense research and speculation. Here we offer RAD-seq data to show that levels of connectivity of a winged stonefly with ground-water larvae and an obligate groundwater amphipod show similar levels of connectivity between floodplains separated by 40 km in the Flathead River basin of NW Montana, USA. This may be due to deep phreatic water connections that enhance movement of organisms between these populations.', u'Dispersal kernels are a standard method for describing and predicting the relationship between dispersal strength and distance. Kernels allow observations of a limited number of dispersal events to be extrapolated across a wider landscape, and form the basis of a wide range of theories and methods in ecology and conservation. Genetic parentage data are an increasingly common source of dispersal information, particularly for species where dispersal is difficult to observe directly. It is now routinely applied to coral reef fish, where larvae disperse over many kilometers and are too small to follow directly. However, it is not straight forward to estimate dispersal kernels from parentage data, and while a number of different methods have been published, these have been examined systematically, and each has substantial limitations. Here we develop and test a new statistical estimator for fitting dispersal kernels to parentage data. The method incorporates a series of factors omitted in previous methods: the partial sampling of adults and juveniles on sampled reefs; accounting for dispersers from unsampled reefs; and post-settlement processes (e.g., density dependent mortality) that follow dispersal but precede parentage sampling. Power analyses indicate that the highest levels of sampling currently used for reef fishes is sufficient to fit accurate dispersal kernels. Sampling is best distributed equally between adults and juveniles, and over an area of less than twice the mean dispersal distance (particularly when sampling is limited). Unlike previous methods, accounting for unsampled adults - both on partially-sampled and unsampled patches - is essential for a precise and unbiased estimate of dispersal.', u'There are global increases in the use of HIV antiretroviral therapy (ART), guided by clinical benefits of early ART initiation, and the efficacy of treatment as prevention of transmission. UNAIDS has set forth an ambitious 90-90-90 strategy for 2020. Separately, it has been shown theoretically and empirically that HIV virulence can evolve over time. Observed virulence levels may reflect an adaptive balance between infected lifespan and per-contact transmission rate. Critically, the potential effects of widespread ART usage on HIV virulence are unknown. To predict these effects, we used an agent-based stochastic model to simulate changes in HIV virulence, using set point viral load as a virulence proxy. We calibrated our epidemic model to the prevalence and incidence trends of South Africa. We also repeated our analysis using a separate model calibration, as a sensitivity analysis, and found that predicted impact of ART on virulence was relatively insensitive to calibration. We explored two distinct ART scenarios, at increasing coverage levels: ART initiation based on patients reaching a CD4+ T cell count threshold, or based on time elapsed since infection (a scenario that mimics the "universal testing and treatment" aspirations in the 90-90-90 UNAIDS targets). We found that HIV virulence is generally unchanged in scenarios of CD4-based initiation. However, with ART initiation based on time since infection (universal test and treat), virulence can increase moderately within several years of ART rollout, under high coverage levels and early treatment initiation albeit within the context of epidemics that are rapidly decreasing in size. We also show that, compared to non-evolutionary HIV epidemic models, allowing for evolving virulence predicts greater declines in HIV incidence after ART rollout. Our modeling study suggests that increasing virulence driven by universal test and treat is likely not a major public health concern, but could be monitored in sentinel surveillance, in a manner similar to transmitted drug resistance.', u'ABSTRACT Previously we reported the inability of genomic prediction methods based on linear models to accurately predict trait values composed of an epistatic genetic architecture. We also reported non-parametric genomic prediction methods applied to the same data produced reasonably accurate predictions. The\ndifference led us to propose analyses by paired parametric and non-parametric methods to the same data could be used as a diagnostic for epistatic genetic architectures in typical plant breeding populations. The suggested computational diagnostic was based on evaluation of 14 genomic prediction methods applied to eight sets of simulated conditions consisting of three factors, each with two levels. Because the potential set of factors that might affect accuracies of genomic predictions is unknown, there is a need for a systematic approach to identify combinations of factors that impact estimates of accuracy. Herein we propose the application of response surface methods to systematically identify conditions that maximize the difference\nbetween estimated accuracies of genomic prediction methods. The results indicate that genetic architecture and repeatability at their upper boundaries for complete epistasis and repeatability have the greatest influence\non the differences between parametric and non-parametric estimated prediction accuracies. Further, the surface is very steep in the vicinity of the boundary conditions, indicating that the proposed diagnostic is of\nlimited value for discovery of epistatic genetic architectures.', u'Cases of parallel ecological divergence in closely related taxa offer an invaluable material to study the processes of ecological speciation. Applying a combination of population genetic and metagenomic tools on a high-coverage RAD sequencing dataset, we test for parallel evolution across six population pairs of Heliosperma pusillum and H. veselskyi (Caryophyllaceae), two plant species found in the south-eastern Alps and characterized by clear morphological (glabrous vs. hairy) and ecological (alpine vs. montane, wet vs. dry) differentiation. Our analyses support a scenario of multiple independent instances of divergence between these species during the last 10,000 years. Structure analyses and simulations show that interspecific gene flow in each population pair is very low. A single locus, annotated as E3 ubiquitin ligase, an enzyme involved in plant innate immunity, shows a pattern of non-random segregation across populations of both species. A metagenomic analysis revealed information about contaminant exogenous DNA present in RAD sequencing libraries obtained from leaf material. Results of this analysis show clearly divergent bacterial and fungal phyllosphere communities between the species, but consistent communities across populations within each species. A similar set of biotic interactions is involved, together with abiotic factors, in shaping common selective regimes at different growing sites of each species. Different occurrences of H. veselskyi appear now genetically isolated from H. pusillum and from each other, and may independently proceed along the speciation continuum. Our work supports the hypothesis that repeated ecological divergence, observed here at an early stage, may be a common process of species diversification.', u'The study of allele-specific expression (ASE) in interspecific hybrids has played a central role in our understanding of a wide range of phenomena, including genomic imprinting, X-chromosome inactivation, and cis-regulatory evolution. However across the hundreds of studies of hybrid ASE, all have been restricted to sexually reproducing eukaryotes, leaving a major gap in our understanding of the genomic patterns of cis-regulatory evolution in prokaryotes. Here we introduce a method to generate stable hybrids between two species of halophilic archaea, and measure genome-wide ASE in these hybrids with RNA-seq. We found that over half of all genes have significant ASE, and that genes encoding kinases show evidence of lineage-specific selection on their cis-regulation. This pattern of polygenic selection suggested species-specific adaptation to low phosphate conditions, which we confirmed with growth experiments. Altogether, our work extends the study of ASE to archaea, and suggests that cis-regulation can evolve under polygenic lineage-specific selection in prokaryotes.', u'Differential elongation rates of RNA polymerase II (RNAP) have been posited to be a critical determinant for pre-mRNA splicing. Molecular dissection of mechanisms coupling transcription elongation rate with splicing requires knowledge of instantaneous RNAP elongation velocity at exon and introns. However, only average RNAP elongation rates over large genomic distances can be inferred with current approaches, and local instantaneous velocities of the elongating RNA polymerase across endogenous genomic regions remain difficult to determine at sufficient resolution to enable detailed kinetic analysis of RNAP at exons. In order to overcome these challenges and to investigate kinetic features of RNAP elongation at genomic scale, we have employed global nuclear run-on sequencing (GRO-seq) method to infer changes in local RNAP elongation rates across the human genome, as changes in the residence time of RNAP. Using this approach, we have investigated functional coupling between the changes in local pattern of RNAP elongation rate at the exons and their general expression level, as inferred by sequencing of mRNAs (mRNA-seq). Our genomic level analyses reveal acceleration of RNAP at lowly expressed exons and confirm the previously reported deceleration of RNAP at highly expressed exons, suggesting variable local velocities of elongating RNAP that are potentially associated with different inclusion or exclusion rates of exons across the human genome.', u'Data analysis tools have become essential to the study of biology. Here, we applied language workbench technology (LWT) to create data analysis languages tailored for biologists with a diverse range of experience: from beginners with no programming experience to expert bioinformaticians and statisticians. A key novelty of our approach is its ability to blend user interface with scripting in a single platform. This feature helps beginners and experts alike analyze data more productively.\nThis new approach has several advantages over state of the art approaches currently popular for data analysis: experts can design simplified data analysis languages that require no programming experience, and behave like graphical user interfaces, yet have the advantages of scripting. We report on such a simple language, called MetaR, which we have used to teach complete beginners how to call differentially expressed genes and build heatmaps. We found that beginners can complete this task in less than 2 hours with MetaR, when more traditional teaching with R and its packages would require several training sessions (6-24hrs). Furthermore, MetaR seamlessly integrates with docker to enable reproducibility of analyses and simplified R package installations during training sessions.\nWe used the same approach to develop the first composable R language. A composable language is a language that can be extended with micro-languages. We illustrate this capability with a Biomart micro-language designed to compose with R and help R programmers query Biomart interactively to assemble specific queries to retrieve data, (The same micro-language also composes with MetaR to help beginners query Biomart.) \nOur teaching experience suggests that language design with LWT can be a compelling approach for developing intelligent data analysis tools and can accelerate training for common data analysis task. LWT offers an interactive environment with the potential to promote exchanges between beginner and expert data analysts.', u'Populations continually incur new mutations with fitness effects ranging from lethal to adaptive. While the distribution of fitness effects (DFE) of new mutations is not directly observable, many mutations likely have either no effect on organismal fitness or are deleterious. Historically, it has been hypothesized that a population may carry many mildly deleterious variants as segregating variation, which reduces the mean absolute fitness of the population. Recent advances in sequencing technology and sequence conservation-based metrics for inferring the functional effect of a variant permit examination of the persistence of deleterious variants in populations. The issue of segregating deleterious variation is particularly important for crop improvement, because the demographic history of domestication and breeding allows deleterious variants to persist and reach moderate frequency, potentially reducing crop productivity. In this study, we use exome resequencing of fifteen barley accessions and genome resequencing of eight soybean accessions to investigate the prevalence of deleterious SNPs in the protein-coding regions of the genomes of two crops. We conclude that individual cultivars carry hundreds of deleterious SNPs on average, and that nonsense variants make up a minority of deleterious SNPs. Our approach annotates known phenotype-altering variants as deleterious more frequently than the genome-wide average, suggesting that putatively deleterious variants are likely to affect phenotypic variation. We also report the implementation of a SNP annotation tool (BAD_Mutations) that makes use of a likelihood ratio test based on alignment of all currently publicly available Angiosperm genomes.', u'The motivations behind rodent helping behavior are unclear. We hypothesize that helping behavior is motivated by an affective state. To test this, we used a paradigm in which one rat can help another by releasing him from a restrainer. Rats were left untreated or received an injection of saline, midazolam (anxiolytic), or nadolol (peripherally acting sympatholytic). Midazolam but not nadolol or saline blocked helping. However, midazolam-treated rats opened the restrainer to access chocolate, showing that midazolam blocks helping through an effect on affect rather than through sedation or the like. To determine the role of HPA reactivity, we measured the corticosterone response to a trapped rat. Rats with the highest corticosterone responses evoked by a trapped rat did not develop consistent helping behavior. Together, these results demonstrate that rodent helping behavior is motivated by an affective state of anxiety and antagonized by physiological stress.', u'It is implicitly assumed that the microbial DNA recovered from soil originates from living cells. However, because relic DNA (DNA from dead cells) can persist in soil for weeks to years, it could impact DNA-based analyses of microbial diversity. We examined a wide range of soils and found that, on average, 40% of prokaryotic and fungal DNA was derived from the relic DNA pool. Relic DNA inflated the observed prokaryotic and fungal diversity by as much as 55%, and caused misestimation of taxon abundances, including taxa integral to key ecosystem processes. These findings imply that relic DNA can obscure treatment effects, spatiotemporal patterns, and relationships between taxa and environmental conditions. Moreover, relic DNA may represent a historical record of microbes formerly living in soil.', u'Decision formation recruits many brain regions, but the  procedure they jointly execute is unknown. To characterize it, we introduce a recursive Bayesian algorithm that makes decisions based on spike trains. Using it to simulate the random-dot-motion task, based on area MT activity, we demonstrate it quantitatively replicates the choice behaviour of monkeys, whilst predicting losses of usable sensory information. Its architecture maps to the recurrent cortico-basal-ganglia-thalamo-cortical loops, whose components are all implicated in decision-making. We show that the dynamics of its mapped computations match those of neural activity in the sensory-motor cortex and striatum during decisions, and forecast those of basal ganglia output and thalamus. This also predicts which aspects of neural dynamics are and are not part of inference. Our single-equation algorithm is probabilistic, distributed, recursive and parallel. Its success at capturing anatomy, behaviour and electrophysiology suggests that the mechanism implemented by the brain has these same characteristics.', u'Schizophrenia (SZ) and autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are characterised by marked language deficits, but it is not clear how these arise from gene mutations associated with the disorders. Our goal is to narrow the gap between SZ and ASD and, ultimately, give support to the view that they represent abnormal (but related) ontogenetic itineraries for the human faculty of language. We will focus on the distinctive oscillatory profiles of the SZ and ASD brains, in turn using these insights to refine our understanding of how the brain computes language by exploring a novel model of linguistic feature-set composition. We will argue that brain rhythms constitute the best route to interpreting language deficits in both conditions and mapping them to neural dysfunction and risk alleles of the genes. Importantly, candidate genes for SZ and ASD are overrepresented among the gene sets believed to be important for language evolution. This translational effort may help develop an understanding of the aetiology of SZ and ASD and their high prevalence among modern populations.', u"Accurately identifying binding sites of transcription factors (TFs) is crucial to understand the mechanisms of transcriptional regulation and human disease. We present incorporating Find Occurrence of Regulatory Motifs (iFORM), an easy-to-use tool for scanning DNA sequence with TF motifs described as position weight matrices (PWMs). iFORM achieves higher accuracy and sensitivity by integrating the results from five classical motif discovery programs based on Fisher's combined probability test. We have used iFORM to provide accurate results on a variety of data in the ENCODE Project and the NIH Roadmap Epigenomics Project, and has demonstrated its utility to further understand individual roles of functional elements.iFORM can be freely accessed athttps://github.com/wenjiegroup/iFORM.", u'Culture independent techniques, such as shotgun metagenomics and 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing have dramatically changed the way we can examine microbial communities. \nRecently, changes in microbial community structure and dynamics have been associated with a growing list of human diseases. The identification and comparison of bacteria driving those changes requires the development of sound statistical tools, especially if microbial biomarkers are to be used in a clinical setting. \nWe present mixMC, a novel multivariate data analysis framework for metagenomic biomarker discovery.  mixMC accounts for the compositional nature of 16S data and  enables detection of subtle differences when high inter-subject variability is present due to microbial sampling performed repeatedly on the same subjects but in multiple habitats. Through data dimension reduction the multivariate methods provide insightful graphical visualisations to characterise each type of environment in a detailed manner. \nWe applied mixMC to 16S microbiome studies focusing on multiple body sites in healthy individuals, compared our results with existing statistical tools and illustrated added value of using multivariate methodologies to fully characterise and compare microbial communities.', u'We propose a novel method and computational tool, Strawberry, for transcript reconstruction and quantification from paired-end RNA-seq data under the guidance of genome alignment and independent of gene annotation. Strawberry achieves this through disentangling assembly and quantification in a sequential manner. The application of a fast flow network algorithm for assembly speeds up the construction of a parsimonious set of transcripts. The resulting reduced data representation improves the efficiency of expression-level quantification. Strawberry leverages the speed and accuracy of transcript assembly and quantification in such a way that processing 10 million simulated reads (after alignment) requires only 90 seconds using a single thread while achieving over 92% correlation with the ground truth, making it the state-of-the-art method. Strawberry outperforms Cufflinks and StringTie, the two other leading methods, in many aspects, including the number of corrected assembled transcripts and the correlation with the ground truth of simulated RNA-seq data.\n\nAvailability: Strawberry is written in C++11, and is available as open source software at https://github.com/ruolin/Strawberry under the GPLv3 license.', u'Suppose that members in a universal set are categorized based on observations, and that categories can be stratified based on the average of observations within each category. Two sorting extremes can be obtained from the perspective of arbitrariness of an order of observations. The first sorting extreme is an increasing order of observations on ascendingly stratified categories. The second sorting extreme is a decreasing order of observations on ascendingly stratified categories. Hierarchical association coefficient (HA-coefficient) algorithm is based on a principle that any order of observations in stratified categorization can be placed between the two sorting extremes. The algorithm produces a proportion of how much an order of observations in stratified categorization is close to the first sorting extreme, or how much an order of categorized observations is distant from the second sorting extreme. This paper introduces a theory about the HA-coefficient algorithm, and shows its applications with example data. In addition, proving a reliability of the algorithm is shown through a simulation.', u'The phylogenetic likelihood function is the major computational bottleneck in several applications of evolutionary biology such as phylogenetic inference,\nspecies delimitation, model selection and divergence times estimation. Given the alignment, a tree and the evolutionary model parameters, the likelihood function computes the conditional likelihood vectors for every node of the tree. Vector entries for which all input data are identical result in redundant\nlikelihood operations which, in turn, yield identical conditional values. Such operations can be omitted for improving run-time and, using appropriate data\nstructures, reducing memory usage.  We present a fast, novel method for identifying and omitting such redundant operations in phylogenetic likelihood calculations, and assess the performance improvement and memory saving attained by our method. Using empirical and simulated data sets, we show that a prototype implementation of our method yields up to 10-fold speedups and uses up to 78% less memory than one of the fastest and most highly tuned implementations of the phylogenetic likelihood function currently available. Our method is generic and can seamlessly be integrated into any phylogenetic\nlikelihood implementation.', u'Developmental gene regulatory networks (dGRNs) are assemblages of interacting regulatory factors that direct ontogeny of animal body plans. The hierarchical topology of these networks predicts that their nodes will evolve at different rates and consequently will bias the trajectories of embryonic evolution. To test this, detailed, comparative analyses of dGRNs that specify early, global embryonic domains are required. The most extensively detailed dGRNs have been documented for one of the two subclasses of extant sea urchins, the euechinoids. Remarkably, euechinoid dGRNs operating in early development show little appreciable change even though they diverged approximately 90 million years ago (mya). Therefore, to better understand the evolutionary dynamics of dGRNs, comparative microdissection must be undertaken for sea urchins that diverged deeper in geological time. Recent studies of cidaroids, the sister clade of euechinoid sea urchins, suggest that comparative analyses of their embryonic domain specification may prove insightful for understanding the evolutionary dynamics of dGRNs. Here, I report the spatiotemporal dynamics of 19 regulatory factors involved in dorsal-ventral patterning of non-skeletogenic mesodermal and ectodermal domains in the early development of Eucidaris tribuloides, a cidaroid sea urchin. Multiple lines of evidence indicate that deployment of ectodermal regulatory factors is more impervious to change than mesodermal regulatory factors in the sea urchin lineage and are supported by multiple lines of experimental evidence. Additionally, endogenous spatiotemporal expression data, intra-class reporter microinjections, and perturbation analyses of Nodal and Notch signaling allow the enumeration of numerous alterations to regulatory factor deployment since the divergence of echinoids. These results provide a global view of early embryonic developmental processes in two clades that diverged at least 268.8 mya and show that the dGRNs controlling embryonic specification exhibit differential lability, supporting the hypothesis that the topologies of dGRNs bias rates of evolutionary change and alter the developmental evolutionary trajectories of embryogenesis.', u'There is a common intuition in biology that strict laws are very difficult to be found. Still, there are recurrent patterns in nature, suggesting broad generalizations and understanding of phenomena. The problem is that many generalizations in biology, especially in the form of correlations, might be decoupled from causality, weakening their power of explanation. Here, I bring an example on the Species-Area Relationship (SAR). The SAR is a well-known generalization in biology. The recurrent pattern states a positive relationship between area size and species richness. Understanding the mechanisms why there is a correlation between area and diversity remains a major challenge. I suggest an explicitly focus on mechanistic explanations for the SAR. I propose to use the integration, comparison and interpretation of other (associated or secondary) natural patterns in the searching for causal explanations. Area per se might not account for causality in species diversification or absolute species richness in larger regions. Biotic and abiotic factors of a given area might be studied in order to discover the causal underpinnings of the SAR.', u'The excision of introns from pre-mRNA is an essential step in mRNA processing. We developed LeafCutter to study sample and population variation in intron splicing. LeafCutter identifies variable intron splicing events from short-read RNA-seq data and finds alternative splicing events of high complexity. Our approach obviates the need for transcript annotations and overcomes the challenges in estimating relative isoform or exon usage in complex splicing events. LeafCutter can be used both for detecting differential splicing between sample groups, and for mapping splicing quantitative trait loci (sQTLs). Compared to contemporary methods, we find over three times more sQTLs, many of which help us ascribe molecular effects to disease-associated variants.  LeafCutter is fast, easy to use, and available at https://github.com/davidaknowles/leafcutter.', u'High-throughput sequencing of small RNAs (sRNA-seq) is a popular method used to discover and annotate microRNAs (miRNAs), endogenous short interfering RNAs (siRNAs) and Piwi-associated RNAs (piRNAs). One of the key steps in sRNA-seq data analysis is alignment to a reference genome. sRNA-seq libraries often have a high proportion of reads which align to multiple genomic locations, which makes determining their true loci of origin difficult. Commonly used sRNA-seq alignment methods result in either very low precision (choosing an alignment at random) or sensitivity (ignoring multi-mapping reads). Here, we describe and test an sRNA-seq alignment strategy that uses local genomic context to guide decisions on proper placements of multi-mapped sRNA-seq reads. Tests using simulated sRNA-seq data demonstrated that this local-weighting method outperforms other alignment strategies using three different plant genomes. Experimental analyses with real sRNA-seq data also indicate superior performance of local-weighting methods for both plant miRNAs and heterochromatic siRNAs. The local-weighting methods we have developed are implemented as part of the sRNA-seq analysis program ShortStack, which is freely available under a general public license. Improved genome alignments of sRNA-seq data should increase the quality of downstream analyses and genome annotation efforts.', u'A ubiquitous feature of all living cells is their growth over time followed by division into two daughter cells. How a population of genetically identical cells maintains size homeostasis, i.e., a narrow distribution of cell size, is an intriguing fundamental problem. We model size using a stochastic hybrid system, where a cell grows exponentially over time and probabilistic division events are triggered at discrete time intervals. Moreover, whenever these events occur, size is randomly partitioned among daughter cells. We first consider a scenario, where a timer (i.e., cell-cycle clock) that measures the time since the last division event regulates cellular growth and the rate of cell division. Analysis reveals that such a timer-driven system cannot achieve size homeostasis, in the sense that, the cell-to-cell size variation grows unboundedly with time. To explore biologically meaningful mechanisms for controlling size we consider three different classes of models: i) a size-dependent growth rate and timer-dependent division rate; ii) a constant growth rate and size-dependent division rate and iii) a constant growth rate and division rate that depends both on the cell size and timer. We show that each of these strategies can potentially achieve bounded intercellular size variation, and derive closed-form expressions for this variation in terms of underlying model parameters. Finally, we discuss how different organisms have adopted the above strategies for maintaining cell size homeostasis.', u'A key to understanding visual cognition is to determine where, when and how brain responses reflect the processing of the specific visual features that modulate categorization behavior - the what. The N170 is the earliest Event-Related Potential (ERP) that preferentially responds to faces. Here, we demonstrate that a paradigmatic shift is necessary to interpret the N170 as the product of an information processing network that dynamically codes and transfers face features across hemispheres, rather than as a local stimulus-driven event. Reverse-correlation methods coupled with information-theoretic analyses revealed that visibility of the eyes influences face detection behavior.  The N170 initially reflects coding of the behaviorally relevant eye contra-lateral to the sensor, followed by a causal communication of the other eye from the other hemisphere. These findings demonstrate that the deceptively simple N170 ERP hides a complex network information processing mechanism involving initial coding and subsequent cross-hemispheric transfer of visual features.', u'We begin by reviewing the statistical framework of information theory as applicable to neuroimaging data analysis. A major factor hindering wider adoption of this framework in neuroimaging is the difficulty of estimating information theoretic quantities in practice. We present a novel estimation technique that combines the statistical theory of copulas with the closed form solution for the entropy of Gaussian variables. This results in a general, computationally efficient, flexible, and robust multivariate statistical framework that provides effect sizes on a common meaningful scale, allows for unified treatment of discrete, continuous, uni- and multi-dimensional variables, and enables direct comparisons of representations from behavioral and brain responses across any recording modality. We validate the use of this estimate as a statistical test within a neuroimaging context, considering both discrete stimulus classes and continuous stimulus features. We also present examples of novel analyses facilitated by these developments, including application of multivariate analyses to MEG planar magnetic field gradients, and pairwise temporal interactions in evoked EEG responses. We show the benefit of considering the instantaneous temporal derivative together with the raw values of M/EEG signals as a multivariate response, how we can separately quantify modulations of amplitude and direction for vector quantities, and how we can measure the emergence of novel information over time in evoked responses. Open-source Matlab and Python code implementing the new methods accompanies this article.', u'We study coarse pattern formation in a cellular automaton modelling a\nspatially-extended stochastic neural network. The model, originally proposed by Gong and Robinson [36], is known to support stationary and travelling bumps of localised activity. We pose the model on a ring and study the existence and stability of these patterns in various limits using a combination of analytical and numerical techniques. In a purely deterministic version of the model, posed on a continuum, we construct bumps and travelling waves analytically using standard interface methods from neural fields theory. In a stochastic version with Heaviside firing rate, we construct approximate analytical probability mass functions associated with bumps and travelling waves. In the full stochastic model posed on a discrete lattice, where a coarse analytic\ndescription is unavailable, we compute patterns and their linear stability\nusing equation-free methods. The lifting procedure used in the coarse\ntime-stepper is informed by the analysis in the deterministic and stochastic limits. In all settings, we identify the synaptic profile as a mesoscopic variable, and the width of the corresponding activity set as a macroscopic variable. Stationary and travelling bumps have similar meso- and macroscopic profiles, but different microscopic structure, hence we propose lifting operators which use microscopic motifs to disambiguate between them. We provide numerical evidence that waves are supported by a combination of high synaptic gain and long refractory times, while meandering bumps are elicited by short\nrefractory times.', u'The ambitions of current neuroscience, understanding neurological disease progression and mapping the connectome, demonstrate a need for safe in vivo tools for creating intricate maps of brain circuitry.  Present in vivo contrast agents are often limited by their specificity, uptake, resolvability, and/or clearance.  \nWe describe an aptamer-functionalized sensor for high-resolution imaging that can switch imaging targets by an induced multi-stage aptamer reaction.  Included are synthetic methods as well as calculations of sensor efficacy based on known kinetics.  Calculations show that 10 distinct targets may be imaged in a living brain at the submicron scale within 42 hours.', u'Endo- and exonucleases are major contributors to RNA metabolism through their diverse roles in maturation and turnover of different species of RNA as well as transcription. Recent data suggests RNA nucleases also affect genome stability programs and act along DNA repair pathways. Here, we describe Nol12 as a multifunctional RNA/DNA endonuclease found in different subcellular compartments - the nucleoplasm, where it co-localizes with the RNA/DNA helicase Dhx9 and paraspeckles, nucleoli as well as GW/P-bodies. We show that Nol12 is required for a key step in ribosomal RNA processing, separating large and small subunit precursors at site 2, rerouting ribosome biogenesis via an alternative pathway in its absence to ensure ribosome production. Furthermore, loss of Nol12 results in increased oxidized DNA levels followed by a rapid p53-independent ATR-Chk1-mediated apoptotic response, suggesting a role for Nol12 in the prevention or resolution of oxidative DNA damage. Identification of a complex Nol12 interactome, which includes NONO, Dhx9 and DNA-PK, further supports its diverse functions in RNA metabolism and DNA maintenance, establishing Nol12 as a multifunctional endonuclease.', u'Mercury in the environment comes from natural processes and industrial activities. The inorganic form associates with the organic matter resulting on methylmercury (MeHg), the most toxic form to man. Mercury occurs in fishes mostly in organic form, the methylmercury. The billfishes appear to have high mercury levels because they are large predators that occupy top levels in the trophic chain. The mercury biomagnificates through the trophic chain and reaches high concentrations in top predators. The present study summarized the information about mercury levels in billfishes available in the literature, with emphasis on swordfish and blue marlin and made an analysis of data from several studies using the multivariate technique Agglomerative Hierarchical Cluster (AHC). The total mercury (THg) ranged from 0.7\u03bcg/g to 12.2\u03bcg/g in blue marlin and from 0.04\u03bcg/g to 5.1\u03bcg/g in swordfish, with data from 121 blue marlin specimens and 354 of swordfish. While a large part of the mercury content of the blue marlin was above 0.5\u03bcg/g allowed by WHO, the specimens of swordfish summarized on the present study showed generally lower values within or slightly above this limit, but the swordfish is still consumed nowadays, and large amounts consumed oftentimes may represent a risk to human health.', u'For most animals, survival depends on rapid detection of rewarding objects, but search for an object surrounded by many others is known to be difficult and time consuming. However, there is neuronal evidence for robust and rapid differentiation of objects based on their reward history in primates (Hikosaka et al., 2014). We hypothesized that such robust coding should support efficient search for high-value objects, similar to a pop-out mechanism. To test this hypothesis, we let subjects (n=4, macaque monkeys) view a large number of complex objects with consistently biased rewards with variable training durations (1, 5 or >30days). Following training, subjects searched for a high-value object (Good) among a variable number of low-value objects (Bad). Consistent with our hypothesis, we found that Good objects were accurately and quickly targeted, often by a single and direct saccade with a very short latency (<200ms). The dependence of search times on display size reduced significantly with longer reward training, giving rise to a more efficient search (40ms/item to 16ms/item). This object-finding skill showed a large capacity for value-biased objects and was maintained in the long-term memory with no interference from reward learning with other objects. Such object-finding skill, particularly its large capacity and its long term retention, would be crucial for maximizing rewards and biological fitness throughout life where many objects are experienced continuously and/or intermittently.', u'The formation of an allopolyploid species involves the merger of two genomes with separate evolutionary histories. In allopolyploids, genes derived from one progenitor species are often expressed at higher levels than those from the other progenitor. It has been suggested that this could be due to differences in transposable element (TE) content among progenitors, as silencing of TEs can affect expression of nearby genes. Here, we examine the role of TEs for expression biases in the widespread allotetraploid Capsella bursa-pastoris and in diploid F1 hybrids generated by crossing Capsella orientalis and Capsella rubella, two close relatives of the progenitors of C. bursa-pastoris. As C. rubella harbors more TEs than C. orientalis, we expect C. orientalis alleles to be expressed at higher levels if TE content is key for expression biases. To test this hypothesis, we quantified expression biases at approximately 5800 genes in flower buds and leaves, while correcting for read mapping biases using genomic data. While three of four C. bursa-pastoris accessions exhibited a shift toward higher relative expression of C. orientalis alleles, the fourth C. bursa-pastoris accession had the opposite direction of expression bias, as did diploid F1 hybrids. Associations between TE polymorphism and expression bias were weak, and the effect of TEs on expression bias was small. These results suggest that differences in TE content alone cannot fully explain expression biases in these species. Future studies should investigate the role of differences in TE silencing efficacy, as well as a broader set of other factors. Our results are important for a more general understanding of the role of TEs for cis-regulatory evolution in plants.', u'We investigated the effect of tree cover, forest patch and disturbances on tree species richness in a highly diverse conservation area of northeast Bangladesh. A systematic sampling protocol was adopted and 80 sub-plots from twenty five 1 ha plots were used for the vegetation survey. Linear regression analysis was performed to understand the effect of  patch area, disturbances and tree cover on tree species richness. Ordination using Redundancy analysis (RDA) and Non-metric Multi Dimensional Scaling (NMDS) were also performed to explore the tree species compositional similarities along the stand characteristics gradient and locations of the sample plots. Our study revealed that, forest patch size has greater influence on species richness. Areas with medium level of disturbances have shown greater species richness. In constrained ordination the selected explanatory variables regulated the richness of common species. Our \ufb01ndings can be useful for better forest management and restoration of landscapes of conservation needs using ecologically important species.', u'Background: Advances in DNA sequencing have made gene testing fast and affordable, but adaptation of clinical services to capitalise on this for patient benefit has been slow. Ovarian cancer exemplifies limitations of current systems and potential benefits of increased gene testing. Approximately 15% of ovarian cancer patients have a germline mutation in BRCA1 or BRCA2 (\u2033BRCA\u2033) and this has substantial implications for their personal management and that of their relatives. However, in most countries implementation of BRCA testing in ovarian cancer has been inconsistent and largely unsuccessful.\n\nMethods: We developed a mainstream pathway in which BRCA testing was undertaken by cancer team members after 30 minutes online training. Patients with a mutation were sent a genetic appointment with their results. Cascade testing to relatives was performed via standard clinical genetic procedures.\n\nFindings: 207 women with ovarian cancer were offered gene testing through the mainstream pathway and all accepted. 33 (16%) had a BRCA mutation. The result informed management of 79% (121/154) women with active disease including 97% (32/33) women with a mutation. All mutation-positive women and ~3.5 relatives per family have been seen in genetics. Patient and clinician feedback was very positive. >95% found the pathway to be simple and effective. The pathway offers considerable reduction in time (~4-fold) and resource requirements (~13-fold) compared to the traditional genetic pathway. We estimate it would deliver GBP 2.6M NHS cost savings per year, and would allow implementation of national testing recommendations with existing infrastructure.\n\nInterpretation: Mainstream genetic testing is effective, efficient and patient-centred and offers a mechanism for large-scale implementation of BRCA gene testing in cancer patients. The principles could be applied in many other countries and to many other areas of genomic medicine.', u'Background: Sepsis incidence which related with morbidity and mortality, is globally increasing. Sepsis occurs because of severe infections. Sepsis has life-threatening potential with organ disfungction complication, septic shock, and death. Alteration of resistance pattern always change at certain period. The aim of the study is to investigate the bacteria pattern and its resistance from adult sepsis patient at Dr. Moewardi Regional General Hospital. \nMethods: Isolated bacteria from adult sepsis patient blood at Dr. Moewardi Regional General Hospital. 7 bacteria isolates were taken from blood of adult sepsis patient (September - October 2014) and 46 bacteria isolates of secondary data (January - March 2014) at Dr. Moewardi Regional General Hospital. Bacteria isolation was performed based on standard Laboratory of Microbiology of Dr. Moewardi Regional General Hospital. 7 bacteria isolates were tested by using disc diffusion antibiotic on Mueller Hinton and coupled by 46 secondary data. \nResults: The bacteria pattern from adult sepsis patients were Staphylococcus haemolyticus (15,09%), Staphylococcus hominis (15,09%), Escherichia coli (13,21%), and Acinetobacter baumannii (11,32%). Resistance pattern of bacteria on adult sepsis with level of resistant more than 50% as Staphylococcus haemolyticus (ciprofloxacin, erythromycin, levofloxacin, moxifloxacin, and gentamicin), Escherichia coli (gentamicin, ciprofloxacin, and levofloxacin), and Acinetobacter baumannii (gentamicin, ciprofloxacin, levofloxacin, and ceftazidime)\nConclutions: Based on this research, revealed that the most common bacteria caused sepsis was Gram negative about 64,64% of all bacteria on sepsis patient. The most frequent cause of sepsis was Staphylococcus hominis, Staphylococcus haemolyticus, and Escherichia coli.', u'Climate change is expected to increase fire activity and woody plant encroachment in arctic and alpine landscapes. However, it is unknown whether increases in woody species and fire will interact to exacerbate changes in structure, function and composition of these ecosystems. Here we use field surveys and experimental manipulations to examine warming and fire effects on recruitment, growth and survival of seedlings of evergreen obligate seeding alpine shrubs. We find that fire substantially increased shrub seedling establishment (up to 32-fold) and that warming doubled tall shrub seedling growth rates and could increase survival. Warming had limited or no effect on shrub recruitment, post-fire gap-infilling by grass, or competitive effects of grass on shrub seedling growth and survival. These findings indicate that rising temperatures coupled with more frequent or severe fires will likely exacerbate increases in tall evergreen shrubs by increasing recruitment, doubling growth rates, and potentially increasing shrub survival.', u'Emerging evidences suggest the heterogeneity of cancers limits the efficacy of immunotherapy. To search for optimal therapeutic targets, we used whole-exome sequencing data from 23 early cervical tumors from Chinese women to investigate the hierarchical structure of the somatic mutations and the predicted neo-epitopes based on their strong binding with major histocompatibility complex class I molecules. We found each tumor carried 117 mutations and 61 neo-epitopes in average and displayed a unique phylogenic tree and "cancer neo-epitope tree" comprising different compositions of mutations or neo-epitopes. Conceivably, the neo-epitopes at the top of the tree shared by all cancer cells are the optimal therapeutic targets that might lead to a cure. Human papillomavirus can be used as therapeutic target in only a proportion of cases where the integrated genome exits without active infection. Therefore, the "cancer neo-epitope tree" will serve as an important source to determine of the optimal immunotherapeutic target.', u'For over a century, a fundamental objective in infection biology research has been to understand the molecular processes contributing to the origin and perpetuation of epidemics. Divergent hypotheses have emerged concerning the extent to which environmental events or pathogen evolution dominates in these processes. Remarkably few studies bear on this important issue. Based on population pathogenomic analysis of 1200 Streptococcus pyogenes type emm89 infection isolates, we report that a series of horizontal gene transfer events produced a new pathogenic genotype with increased ability to cause infection, leading to an epidemic wave of disease on at least two continents. In the aggregate, these and other genetic changes substantially remodeled the transcriptomes of the evolved progeny, causing extensive differential expression of virulence genes and altered pathogen:host interaction, including enhanced immune evasion. Our findings delineate the precise molecular genetic changes that occurred and enhance our understanding of the evolutionary processes that contribute to the emergence and persistence of epidemically successful pathogen clones. The data have significant implications for understanding bacterial epidemics and translational research efforts to blunt their detrimental effects.', u"Recombinant Sindbis viruses are important tools in neuroscience because they combine rapid and high transgene expression with a capacity to carry large transgenes. Currently, two packaging systems based on the DH(26S)5'SIN and the DH-BB(tRNA;TE12) Defective Helper (DH) RNAs are available for making recombinant Sindbis virus that is neurotropic (able to infect neurons and potentially other cells). Both systems produce a fraction of viral particles that can propagate beyond the primary infected neuron. When injected into mouse brains, viruses produced using these DH RNAs label neurons at the injection site, but also elsewhere in the brain. Such ectopic labeling caused recombinant Sindbis viruses to be classified as anterograde viruses with limited retrograde spread, and can complicate the interpretation of neuroanatomical and other experiments.\nHere we describe a new DH RNA, DH-BB(5'SIN;TE12ORF), that can be used to produce virus that is both neurotropic and propagation-incompetent. We show in mice that DH-BB(5'SIN;TE12ORF)-packaged virus eliminates infection of cells outside the injection site. We also provide evidence that ectopically labeled cells observed in previous experiments with recombinant Sindbis virus resulted from secondary infection by propagation-competent virus, rather than from inefficient retrograde spread. \nVirus produced with our new packaging system retains all the advantages of previous recombinant Sindbis viruses, but minimizes the risks of confounding results with unwanted ectopic labeling. It should therefore be considered in future studies in which a neurotropic, recombinant Sindbis virus is needed.", u'The mitochondrial (mt) genome is present in many copies in human cells, and intra-individual variation in mtDNA sequences is known as heteroplasmy. Recent studies found that heteroplasmies are highly tissue-specific, site-specific, and allele-specific, however the functional implications have not been explored. This study investigates variation in mtDNA copy numbers (mtCN) in 12 different tissues obtained at autopsy from 152 individuals (ranging in age from 3 days to 96 years). Three different methods to estimate mtCN were compared: shotgun sequencing (in 4 tissues), capture-enriched sequencing (in 12 tissues) and droplet digital PCR (ddPCR, in 2 tissues). The highest precision in mtCN estimation was achieved using shotgun sequencing data. However, capture-enrichment data provide reliable estimates of relative (albeit not absolute) mtCNs. Comparisons of mtCN from different tissues of the same individual revealed that mtCNs in different tissues are, with few exceptions, uncorrelated. Hence, each tissue of an individual seems to regulate mtCN in a tissue-related rather than an individual-dependent manner. Skeletal muscle (SM) samples showed an age-related decrease in mtCN that was especially pronounced in males, while there was an age-related increase in mtCN for liver (LIV) samples. MtCN in SM samples was significantly negatively correlated with both the total number of heteroplasmic sites and with minor allele frequency (MAF) at two heteroplasmic sites, 408 and 16327. Heteroplasmies at both sites are highly specific for SM, accumulate with aging and are part of functional elements that regulate mtDNA replication. These data support the hypothesis that selection acting on these heteroplasmic sites is reducing mtCN in SM of older individuals.\n\nThis article has been accepted for publication by PLOS Genetics: http://journals.plos.org/plosgenetics/article?id=10.1371/journal.pgen.1005939', u'Although underdominant mutations have undoubtedly fixed between divergent species, classical models of population genetics suggest underdominant alleles should be purged quickly, except in small or subdivided populations.  Here we study the fixation of underdominant alleles at loci that also influence mate choice, such as loci encoding coloration patterns visible to mates and predators alike. We analyze a mechanistic model of positive assortative mating in which individuals have n chances to sample compatible mates. This one-parameter model naturally spans the two classical extremes of random mating (n=1) and complete assortment (n \u2192 \u221e), and yet it produces a complex form of sexual selection that depends non-monotonically on the number of mating opportunities, n. The resulting interaction between viability selection and sexual selection can either inhibit or facilitate fixation of underdominant alleles, compared to random mating.  As the number of mating opportunities increases, underdominant alleles can fix at rates that even approach the neutral substitution rate. This result is counterintuitive because sexual selection and underdominance each suppress rare alleles in this model, and yet in combination they can promote the fixation of rare alleles.  This phenomenon constitutes a new mechanism for the fixation of underdominant alleles in large populations, and it illustrates how incorporating life history characteristics can alter the predictions of population-genetic models for evolutionary change.', u'It is generally assumed that the uniqueness of individual identity is reflected in the connective architecture of the human brain. Here we introduce local connectome fingerprinting, a noninvasive method that uses diffusion MRI to characterize white matter bundles as fingerprints. Using four independently acquired datasets (total n=213), we show that the local connectome fingerprint is highly specific to an individual, achieving 100% accuracy across 17,398 identification tests with an estimated classification error at 10-6. This uniqueness profile is higher than fingerprints derived from local fractional anisotropy or region-to-region connectivity patterns. We further illustrate that local connectome fingerprinting allows for quantifying similarity between genetically-associated individuals, e.g., monozygotic twins (12% connectomic similarity), and neuroplasticity with time, e.g., fingerprint uniqueness decreases 0.02% per day. This approach opens a new door for probing the influence of pathological, genetic, social, or environmental factors on the unique configuration of the human connectome.', u'Bipolar disorder (BD) affects the quality of life of approximately 1% of the population and represents a major public health concern. It is known to be highly heritable but large-scale genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have discovered only a handful of markers associated with the disease. Furthermore, the biological mechanisms underlying these markers need to be elucidated. We recently published a gene-level association test, PrediXcan that integrates transcriptome regulation data to characterize the function of these markers in a tissue specific manner. In this study, we developed prediction models for mRNA levels in 10 brain regions using data from the GTEx project and performed PrediXcan analysis in WTCCC as well as in an independent cohort, GAIN. We replicate the association between predicted expression of PTPRE and BD risk in whole blood and recapitulate the association in brain tissues. PTPRE encodes the protein tyrosine phosphatase, receptor type E, that is known to be involved in RAS signaling and activation of voltage-gated K+ channels. We also found a new genome-wide significant association between lower predicted expression of BBX (bobby sox homolog) in the anterior cingulate cortex region of the brain and increased risk of BD (pWTCCC = 7.02 x 10e-6, pGAIN = 4.68 x 10e-3, pmeta = 1.11 x 10e-7). In sum, we used our mechanistically informed approach, PrediXcan, to identify and replicate two novel genome-wide significant genes using existing GWAS studies.', u'This report describes the construction and characterization of mus-51RIP70, an allele for high-efficiency targeted integration of transgenes into the genome of the model eukaryote Neurospora crassa.  Two of the mus-51RIP70 strains investigated in this work (RZS27.10 and RZS27.18) can be obtained from the Fungal Genetics Stock Center.  The two deposited strains are, to our knowledge, genetically identical and neither one is preferred over the other for use in Neurospora research.', u'Leaves in plants with spiral phyllotaxy exhibit directional asymmetries, such that all the leaves originating from a meristem of a particular chirality are similarly asymmetric relative to each other. Models of auxin flux capable of recapitulating spiral phyllotaxis predict handed auxin asymmetries in initiating leaf primordia with empirically verifiable effects on superficially bilaterally symmetric leaves. Here, we extend a similar analysis of leaf asymmetry to decussate and distichous phyllotaxy.  We found that our simulation models of these two patterns predicted mirrored asymmetries in auxin distribution in leaf primordia pairs. To empirically verify the morphological consequences of asymmetric auxin distribution, we analyzed the morphology of a tomato sister-of-pinformed1a (sopin1a) mutant, entire-2, in which spiral phyllotaxy consistently transitions to a decussate state. Shifts in the displacement of leaflets on the left and right sides of entire-2 leaf pairs mirror each other, corroborating predicted model results. We then analyze the shape of >800 common ivy (Hedera helix) and >3,000 grapevine (Vitis and Ampelopsis spp.) leaf pairs and find statistical enrichment of predicted mirrored asymmetries. Our results demonstrate that left-right auxin asymmetries in models of decussate and distichous phyllotaxy successfully predict mirrored asymmetric leaf morphologies in superficially symmetric leaves.', u'In vertebrates and other Metazoa, developmental genes are found surrounded by dense clusters of highly conserved noncoding elements (CNEs). CNEs exhibit extreme levels of sequence conservation of unexplained origin, with many acting as long-range enhancers during development. Clusters of CNEs, termed genomic regulatory blocks (GRBs), define the span of regulatory interactions for many important developmental regulators. The function and genomic distribution of these elements close to important regulatory genes raises the question of how they relate to the 3D conformation of these loci. We show that GRBs, defined using clusters of CNEs, coincide strongly with the patterns of topological organisation in metazoan genomes, precisely predicting the boundaries of topologically associating domains (TADs) at hundreds of loci. The set of TADs that are associated with high levels of non-coding conservation, which we term devTADs, exhibit distinct properties compared to TADs called in chromosomal regions devoid of extreme non-coding conservation. The correspondence between GRBs and TADs suggests that TADs around developmental genes are ancient, slowly evolving genomic structures, many of which have had conserved spans for hundreds of millions of years. This relationship also explains the difference in TAD numbers and sizes between genomes. While the close correlation between extreme conservation and the boundaries of this subset of TADs does not reveal the mechanism leading to the conservation of these elements, it provides a functional framework for studying the role of TADs in long-range transcriptional regulation.', u'Achieving optimal human performance that involves cognitive or physical work requires quality sleep and a positive mental attitude. The ascending reticular activating system (RAS) represents a powerful set of endogenous neuromodulatory circuits that gate and tune global brain responses to internal and external cues, thereby regulating consciousness, alertness, and attention. The activity of two major RAS nuclei, the locus coeruleus (LC) and pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN), can be altered by trigeminal nerve modulation. Monosynaptic afferent inputs from the sensory components of trigeminal nerve branches project to the trigeminal sensory nuclear complex (TSNC), which has direct and polysynaptic connections to the LC and PPN. We previously found high-frequency (7 - 11 kHz) transdermal electrical neuromodulation (TEN) of the trigeminal nerve rapidly induces physiological relaxation, dampens sympathetic nervous system responses to acute stress, and suppresses levels of noradrenergic biomarkers. Given the established roles of LC and PPN neuronal activity in sleep regulation, psychophysiological arousal, and stress, we conducted three studies designed to test hypotheses that modulation of the TSNC can improve sleep quality and mood in healthy individuals (n = 99). Across a total of 1,386 days monitored, we observed TEN modulation of trigeminal and cervical nerves prior to sleep onset produced significant improvements in sleep quality and affective states, quantified using clinically validated surveys, overnight actigraph and heart rate recordings, and biochemical analyses compared to baseline or sham controls. Moreover, we observed some frequency dependence in that TEN delivered at lower frequencies (TENLF; 0.50 - 0.75 kHz) was significantly more effective at improving sleep quality and reducing anxiety than higher frequency TEN waveforms. Collectively our results indicate that transdermal electrical neuromodulation of trigeminal and cervical nerve branches can influence TSNC activity in a manner that significantly improves sleep quality and significantly reduces stress. We conclude that biasing RAS network activity to optimize sleep efficiency and enhance mood by electrically modulating TSNC activity through its afferent inputs holds tremendous potential for optimizing mental health and human performance.', u'Cytokinetic cleavage furrows assemble during anaphase at a site that is dictated by the position of the spindle. The GTPase RhoA promotes contractile ring assembly and furrow ingression during cytokinesis. While many factors that regulate RhoA during cytokinesis have been characterized, the spatiotemporal regulatory logic remains undefined. It is not known whether a local zone of RhoA activity is sufficient to induce furrow formation or whether the spindle modulates furrow assembly through other pathways. Similarly, it is not known whether the entire cortex is responsive to RhoA, nor whether contractile ring assembly is cell cycle regulated. Here, we have developed an optogenetic probe to gain tight spatial and temporal control of RhoA activity in mammalian cells and demonstrate that cytokinetic furrowing is primarily regulated at the level of RhoA activation. Light-mediated recruitment of a RhoGEF domain to the plasma membrane leads to rapid activation of RhoA, leading to assembly of cytokinetic furrows that partially ingress. Furthermore, furrow formation in response to RhoA activation is not spatially or temporally restricted. RhoA activation is sufficient to generate furrows at both the cell equator and at cell poles, in both metaphase and anaphase. Remarkably, furrow formation can be initiated in rounded interphase cells, but not adherent cells. These results indicate RhoA activation is sufficient to induce assembly of functional contractile rings and that cell rounding facilitates furrow formation.', u"Common species shape the world around us, and changes in their commonness signify large-scale shifts in ecosystem structure and function. Dominant taxa drive productivity and biogeochemical cycling, in direct interaction with abiotic components of the Earth system. However, our understanding of the dynamic response of ecosystems to global environmental changes in the past is limited by our ability to robustly estimate fossil taxonomic richness, and by our neglect of the importance of common species. To rectify this, we use observations of the most common and widespread species to track global changes in their distribution in the deep geological past. Our simple approach is robust to factors that bias richness estimators, including widely used sampling-standardization methods, which we show are highly sensitive to variability in the species-abundance distribution. Causal analyses of common species frequency in the deep-sea sedimentary record detect a lagged response in the ecological prominence of planktonic foraminifera to oceanographic changes captured by deep-ocean temperature records over the last 65 million years, encompassing one of Earth's major climate transitions. Our results demonstrate that common species can act as tracers of a past global ecosystem and its response to physical changes in Earth's dynamic history.", u"In the mammalian brain, allocentric (Earth-referenced) heading direction, called azimuth, is encoded by head direction (HD) cells, which fire according to the facing direction of the rat's head. If the animal is on a horizontal surface then egocentric (self-referenced) rotations of the head around the dorso-ventral axis, called yaw, correspond to changes in azimuth, and elicit appropriate updating of the HD signal. However, if the surface is sloping steeply then yaw rotations no longer map linearly to changes in azimuth. The brain could solve this problem simply by always firing according to direction on the local (sloping) surface instead; however, if the animal moves between surfaces having different compass orientations then errors would accumulate in the subsequent azimuth signal. These errors could be avoided if the HD system instead combines two updating rules: yaw rotations around the D-V axis and rotations of the D-V axis around the gravity-defined vertical axis. We show here that when rats move between vertical walls of different orientations then HD cells indeed rotate their activity by an amount corresponding to the amount of vertical-axis rotation. With modelling, we then show how this reference-frame rotation, which may be driven by inputs from the vestibular nuclei or vestibulocerebellum, allows animals to maintain a simple yaw-based updating rule while on a given plane, but also to avoid accumulation of heading errors when moving between planes.", u'Whilst genotype\u2013environment interaction is increasingly receiving attention by ecologists and evolutionary biologists, such studies need genetically homogeneous replicates\u2014a challenging hurdle in outcrossing plants. This could potentially be overcome by using tissue culture techniques. However, plants regenerated from tissue culture may show aberrant phenotypes and \u201csomaclonal\u201d variation. Here we examined the effects of tissue culturing by clonal growth on the response to cold treatment in the photosynthetic efficiency (chlorophyll fluorescence measurements for Fv/Fm, Fv\u2032/Fm\u2032 and \u0424PSII, representing maximum efficiency of photosynthesis for dark- and light-adapted leaves, and the actual electron transport operating efficiency, respectively), compared to half-sibling seedlings from three different families of Arabidopsis lyrata ssp. petraea. Somaclonal variation was limited and we could successfully detect within-family variation in change in chlorophyll fluorescence by cold shock with the help of tissue-culture derived replicates. Icelandic and Norwegian families exhibited higher chlorophyll fluorescence, suggesting higher cold tolerance, than a Swedish family. Although the main effect of tissue culture on Fv/Fm, Fv\u2032/Fm\u2032 and \u0424PSII was small, there were significant interactions between tissue culture and family, suggesting that the effect of tissue culture is genotype-specific. Tissue-cultured plantlets were less affected by cold treatment than seedlings, but to a different extent in each family. These interactive effects, however, were comparable to, or much smaller than the single effect of family. These results suggest that tissue culture is a useful method for obtaining genetically homogenous replicates for studying genotype\u2010environment interaction related to adaptively relevant phenotypes, such as cold tolerance, in non-model outcrossing plants.', u"Summary: High-throughput synthetic lethal RNA interference (RNAi) screen experiments shed important insights on the filed of cancer researches and drug discovery, but a comprehensive software for analyzing the data was not available yet. We present synlet, an R package provided a complete pipeline to process the synthetic lethal RNAi screens data. Synlet provides several methods to access the screen quality, including Z' factor and data visualization. B-score and fraction of control or samples normalization methods are implemented in the package. More importantly, synlet facilitates the process of hits selection by implementing several algorithms, providing the possibility to identify high confidence targets.\nAvailability: The source code is freely available in Bioconductor (http://bioconductor.org/).\nContact: c.shao@Dkfz-Heidelberg.de", u"The identification of kinase substrates and the specific phosphorylation sites they regulate is an important factor in understanding protein function regulation and signalling pathways. Computational prediction of kinase targets -- assigning kinases to putative substrates, and selecting from protein sequence the sites that kinases can phosphorylate -- requires the consideration of both the cellular context that kinases operate in, as well as their binding affinity. This consideration enables investigation of how phosphorylation influences a range of biological processes.\n\nWe report here a novel probabilistic model for the classification of kinase-specific phosphorylation sites from sequence across three model organisms: human, mouse and yeast. The model incorporates position-specific amino acid frequencies, and counts of co-occurring amino acids from kinase binding sites in a kinase- and family-specific manner. We show how this model can be seamlessly integrated with protein interactions and cell-cycle abundance profiles. When evaluating the prediction accuracy of our method, PhosphoPICK, on an independent hold-out set of kinase-specific phosphorylation sites, we found it achieved an average specificity of 97% while correctly predicting 32% of true positives. We also compared PhosphoPICK's ability, through cross-validation, to predict kinase-specific phosphorylation sites with alternative methods, and found that at high levels of specificity PhosphoPICK outperforms alternative methods for most comparisons made.\n\nWe investigated the relationship between experimentally confirmed phosphorylation sites and predicted nuclear localisation signals by predicting the most likely kinases to be regulating the phosphorylated residues immediately upstream or downstream from the localisation signal. We show that kinases PKA, Akt1 and AurB have an over-representation of predicted binding sites at particular positions downstream from predicted nuclear localisation signals, indicating a greater role for phosphorylation in regulating the nuclear import of proteins than previously thought.", u'Survival of trophoblast cells in the low oxygen environment of human placentation requires metalloproteinase-mediated shedding of HBEGF and downstream signaling. A matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) antibody array and quantitative RT-PCR revealed upregulation of MMP2 post-transcriptionally in human first trimester HTR-8/SVneo trophoblast cells and placental explants exposed to 2% O2. Specific MMP inhibitors established the requirement for MMP2 in HBEGF shedding and upregulation. Hypoxia inducible factors, HIF1A and EPAS1 (HIF2A), accumulated at 2% O2, and HIF target genes were identified by next-generation sequencing of RNA from trophoblast cells cultured at 2% O2 for 0, 1, 2 and 4 hrs. Of nine genes containing HIF-response elements upregulated at 1 hour, only HSPA6 (HSP70B\u2032) remained elevated after 4 hours. The HSP70 chaperone inhibitor VER155008 blocked upregulation of both MMP2 and HBEGF at 2% O2, and increased apoptosis. However, both HBEGF upregulation and apoptosis were rescued by exogenous MMP2. We propose that MMP2-mediated shedding of HBEGF, initiated by HSP70, contributes to trophoblast survival at the low O2 levels encountered during the first trimester, and is essential for successful pregnancy outcomes.', u"Despite decade-long efforts, the genetic underpinnings of many complex traits and diseases remain largely elusive. It is increasingly recognized that a purely additive model, upon which most genome-wide association studies (GWAS) rely, is insufficient. Although thousands of significant trait-associated loci have been identified, purely additive models leave much of the inferred genetic variance unexplained. Several factors have been invoked to explain the 'missing heritability', including epistasis. Accounting for all possible epistatic interactions is computationally complex and requires very large samples. Here, we propose a simple two-state epistasis model, in which individuals show either high or low variant penetrance with respect to a certain trait. The use of this model increases the power to detect additive trait-associated loci. We show that this model is consistent with current GWAS results and improves fit with heritability observations based on twin studies. We suggest that accounting for variant penetrance will significantly increase our power to identify underlying additive loci.", u'Topologically Associating Domains (TADs) are fundamental structural and functional building blocks of human interphase chromosomes, yet mechanisms of TAD formation remain unknown. Here we propose that loop extrusion underlies TAD formation. In this process, cis-acting loop-extruding factors, likely cohesins, form progressively larger loops, but stall at TAD boundaries due to interactions with boundary proteins, including CTCF. Using polymer simulations, we show that this model can produce TADs as determined by our analyses of Hi-C data. Contrary to typical illustrations, each TAD consists of multiple dynamically formed loops, rather than a single static loop. Our model explains diverse experimental observations, including the preferential orientation of CTCF motifs, enrichments of architectural proteins at TAD boundaries, and boundary deletion experiments, and makes specific predictions for depletion of CTCF versus cohesin. The emerging picture is that TADs arise from actively forming, growing, and dissociating loops, presenting a framework for understanding interphase chromosomal organization.', u'For most complex traits, gene regulation is known to play a crucial mechanistic role as demonstrated by the consistent enrichment of expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) among trait-associated variants. Thus, understanding the genetic architecture of gene expression traits is key to elucidating the underlying mechanisms of complex traits. However, a systematic survey of the heritability and the distribution of effect sizes across all representative tissues in the human body has not been reported.\nHere we fill this gap through analyses of the RNA-seq data from a comprehensive set of tissue samples generated by the GTEx Project and the DGN whole blood cohort. We find that local h2 can be relatively well characterized with 50% of expressed genes showing significant h2 in DGN and 8-19% in GTEx. However, the current sample sizes (n < 362 in GTEx) only allow us to compute distal h2 for a handful of genes (3% in\nDGN and <1% in GTEx). Thus, we focus on local regulation. Bayesian Sparse Linear Mixed Model (BSLMM) analysis and the sparsity of optimal performing predictors provide compelling evidence that local architecture of gene expression traits is sparse rather than polygenic across DGN and all 40 GTEx tissues examined.\nTo further delve into the tissue context specificity, we decompose the expression traits into cross-tissue and tissue-specific components. Heritability and sparsity estimates of these derived expression phenotypes show similar characteristics to the original traits. Consistent properties relative to prior GTEx multi-tissue analysis results suggest that these traits reflect the expected biology.\nFinally, we apply this knowledge to develop prediction models of gene expression traits for all tissues. The prediction models, heritability, and prediction performance R2 for original and decomposed expression phenotypes are made publicly available\n(https://github.com/hakyimlab/PrediXcan).', u'Gene duplication and loss are major sources of genetic polymorphism in populations, and are important forces shaping the evolution of genome content and organization. We have reconstructed the origin and history of a 127 kbp segmental duplication, R2d, in the house mouse (Mus musculus). De novo assembly of both the ancestral (R2d1) and the derived (R2d2) copies reveals that they have been subject to non-allelic gene conversion events spanning tens of kilobases. R2d2 is also a hotspot for structural variation: its diploid copy number ranges from 0 in the mouse reference genome to more than 80 in wild mice sampled from around the globe. Heterozygosity for low- and high-copy alleles of R2d2 is associated in cis with meiotic drive, suppression of meiotic crossovers, and copy-number instability, with a mutation rate in excess of 1% per generation in laboratory populations. We identify an additional 57 loci, covering 0.8% of the mouse genome, that have characteristics similar to R2d2: segmental duplication, phylogenetic discordance and low recombination rate. Our results provide a striking example of allelic diversity generated by duplication and demonstrate the value of de novo assembly in a phylogenetic context for understanding the mutational processes affecting duplicate genes.', u'There is increasing evidence that posttranslational modifications (PTMs) such as methylation and hydroxymethylation on cytosine would greatly impact the binding of transcription factors (TFs). We modified a motif finding method Epigram to discover methylated motifs and other motifs containing other PTMs. When applied to TF ChIP-seq and DNA methylome data in H1 and GM12878, our method successfully identified novel methylated motifs that can be recognized by the TFs or their co-factors. We also observed spacing constraint between the canonical motif of the TF of interest and the newly discovered methylated motifs, which suggests operative recognition of these cis-elements by collaborative proteins.', u"Introduction. Many transcription factors initiate transcription only in specific sequence contexts, providing the means for sequence specificity of transcriptional control. A four-letter DNA alphabet only partially describes the possible diversity of nucleobases a transcription factor might encounter. For instance, cytosine is often present in a covalently modified form: 5-methylcytosine (5mC). 5mC can be successively oxidized to 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC), 5-formylcytosine (5fC), and 5-carboxylcytosine (5caC). Just as transcription factors distinguish one unmodified nucleobase from another, some have been shown to distinguish unmodified bases from these covalently modified bases. Modification-sensitive transcription factors provide a mechanism by which widespread changes in DNA methylation and hydroxymethylation can dramatically shift active gene expression programs.\n\nMethods. To understand the effect of modified nucleobases on gene regulation, we developed methods to discover motifs and identify transcription factor binding sites in DNA with covalent modifications. Our models expand the standard A/C/G/T alphabet, adding m (5mC) h (5hmC), f (5fC), and c (5caC). We additionally add symbols to encode guanine complementary to these modified cytosine nucleobases, as well as symbols to represent states of ambiguous modification. We adapted the well-established position weight matrix model of transcription factor binding affinity to an expanded alphabet. We developed a program, Cytomod, to create a modified sequence. We also enhanced the MEME Suite to be able to handle custom alphabets. These versions permit users to specify new alphabets, anticipating future alphabet expansions.\n\nResults. We created an expanded-alphabet sequence using whole-genome maps of 5mC and 5hmC in naive ex vivo mouse T cells. Using this sequence and ChIP-seq data from Mouse ENCODE and others, we identified modification-sensitive cis-regulatory modules. We elucidated various known methylation binding preferences, including the preference of ZFP57 and C/EBP\u03b2 for methylated motifs and the preference of c-Myc for unmethylated E-box motifs. We demonstrated that our method is robust to parameter perturbations, with transcription factors' sensitivities for methylated and hydroxymethylated DNA broadly conserved across a range of modified base calling thresholds. Hypothesis testing across different threshold values was used to determine cutoffs most suitable for further analyses. Using these known binding preferences to tune model parameters enables discovery of novel modified motifs.\n\nDiscussion. Hypothesis testing of motif central enrichment provides a natural means of differentially assessing modified versus unmodified binding affinity, without most of the limitations of a de novo analysis. This approach can be readily extended to other DNA modifications, provided genome-wide single-base resolution data is available. As more high-resolution epigenomic data becomes available, we expect this method to continue to yield insights into altered transcription factor binding affinities across a variety of modifications.", u'B73 is a variety of maize (Zea mays ssp. mays) widely used in genetic, genomic, and phenotypic research around the world. B73 was also served as the reference genotype for the original maize genome sequencing project. The advent of large-scale RNA-sequencing as a method of measuring gene expression presents a unique opportunity to assess the level of relatedness among individuals identified as variety B73. The level of haplotype conservation and divergence across the genome were assessed using 27 RNA-seq data sets from 20 independent research groups in three countries. Several clearly distinct clades were identified among putatively B73 samples. A number of these blocks were defined by the presence of clearly defined genomic blocks containing a haplotype which did not match the published B73 reference genome. In a number of cases the relationship among B73 samples generated by different research groups recapitulated mentor/mentee relationships within the maize genetics community. A number of regions with distinct, dissimilar, haplotypes were identified in our study. However, when considering the age of the B73 accession -- greater than 40 years -- and the challenges of maintaining isogenic lines of a naturally outcrossing species, a strikingly high overall level of conservation was exhibited among B73 samples from around the globe.', u'The characterization of the structure of southern Africa populations has been the subject of numerous genetic, medical, linguistic, archaeological and anthropological investigations.\nCurrent diversity in the subcontinent is the result of complex episodes of genetic admixture and cultural contact between the early inhabitants and the migrants that have arrived in the region over the last 2,000 years, with some of the variation present in the past being now lost as the result of cultural and demographic assimilation by surrounding populations. Here we analyze 1,856 individuals from 91 populations, comprising novel and available genotype data to characterize the genetic ancestry profiles of southern African populations. Combining local ancestry and allele frequency analyses we identify a tripartite, ancient, Khoesan-related genetic structure, which correlates with geography, but not with linguistic affiliation or subsistence strategy. The fine mapping of these components in southern African populations reveals admixture dynamics and episodes of cultural reversion involving several Khoesan groups and highlights different mixtures of ancestral components in Bantu speakers and Coloured individuals.', u'Elucidating how the cortical transcriptome is hierarchically disorganized may be key for understanding the pathophysiology behind of autism (ASD). Here we find replicable evidence across 2 datasets for 10 gene co-expression modules that are differentially expressed in ASD. These modules span multiple cell types and compartments including M1 and M2 microglia, astrocytes, ribosomal subunits, neuron, synapse, and postsynaptic density. These dysregulated modules are also strongly correlated and form higher-level emergent properties characterized by coordination between downregulated synaptic and neural developmental processes and upregulated catabolism, viral processes, translation, protein targeting and localization, interferon signaling, glia-relevant, and apoptosis processes. Hierarchical organization at the level of clusters of highly connected modules (i.e. meta-modules) is also disrupted in ASD, as is connectivity between specific synaptic, immune, and translation modules. These results support a view of hierarchical cortical transcriptome disorganization in ASD characterized by emergent pathophysiology not readily apparent in smaller isolated elements.', u'Invertebrates lack the cellular and physiological machinery of the adaptive immune system, but show specificity in their immune response [1, 2] and immune priming [3-11]. Functionally, immune priming is comparable to immune memory in vertebrates. Individuals that have survived exposure to a given parasite are better protected against subsequent exposures. Protection may be cross-reactive (e.g. [12]), but demonstrations of persistent and specific protection in invertebrates are increasing [3, 5]. This immune priming can cross generations ("trans-generational" immune priming) [4, 8], preparing offspring for the prevailing parasite environment. While these phenomena gain increasing support, the mechanistic foundations underlying such immune priming, both within and across generations, remain largely unknown. Using a transcriptomic approach, we show a bacterial challenge to bumblebee queens, known to induce trans-generational immune priming, alters daughter (worker) gene expression. Daughters, even when unchallenged themselves, constitutively express a core set of the genes induced upon direct bacterial exposure, including high expression of antimicrobial peptides, a beta-glucan receptor protein implicated in bacterial recognition and the induction of the toll signaling pathway[13], and slit-3 which is important in honeybee immunity[14].  Maternal challenge results in a distinct upregulation of their daughters\' immune system, with a signature overlapping with the induced individual response to a direct immune challenge. This will mediate mother-offspring protection, but also associated costs related to reconfiguration of constitutive immune expression. Identification of conserved immune pathways in memory-like responses has important implications for our understanding of the innate immune system, including the innate components in vertebrates, which share many of these pathways[15].', u'As an example of topic where biology and physics meet, we present the issue of protein folding and stability, and  the development of thermodynamics-based bioinformatics tools that predict the stability and thermal resistance of proteins and the change of these quantities upon amino acid substitutions. These methods are based on knowledge-driven statistical potentials, derived from experimental protein structures using the inverse Boltzmann law.', u'Heterogeneity in terms of tumor characteristics, prognosis, and survival among cancer patients has been a persistent problem for many decades. Currently, prognosis and outcome predictions are made based on clinical factors and/or by incorporating molecular profiling data. However, inaccurate prognosis and prediction may result by using only clinical or molecular information directly. One of the main shortcomings of past studies is the failure to incorporate prior biological information into the predictive model, given strong evidence of pathway-based genetic nature of cancer, i.e. the potential for oncogenes to be grouped into pathways based on biological functions such as cell survival, proliferation and metastatic dissemination.\nTo address this problem, we propose a two-stage procedure to incorporate pathway information into the prognostic modeling using large-scale gene expression data. In the first stage, we fit all predictors within each pathway using penalized Cox model (Lasso, Ridge and Elastic Net) and Bayesian hierarchical Cox model. In the second stage, we combine the cross-validated prognostic scores of all pathways obtained in the first stage as new predictors to build an integrated prognostic model for prediction. We apply the proposed method to analyze breast cancer data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), predicting overall survival using clinical data and gene expression profiling. The data includes ~20000 genes mapped into 109 pathways for 505 patients. The results show that the proposed approach not only improves survival prediction compared with the alternative analysis that ignores the pathway information, but also identifies significant biological pathways.', u'Schizophrenia is characterised by marked language deficits, but it is not clear how these deficits arise from gene mutations linked to or associated with the disease. The goal of this paper is to aid the bridging of the gap between genes and schizophrenia and, ultimately, give support to the view that it represents an abnormal ontogenetic itinerary for the human faculty of language, heavily rooted in the evolutionary processes that brought about modern language. To that end we will focus on how the schizophrenia brain processes language and, particularly, on its distinctive oscillatory profile during language processing: We will argue that brain rhythms constitute the best route to interpret language deficits in this condition and map them to neural dysfunction and risk alleles of the genes. Additionally, we will show that candidate genes for schizophrenia are overrepresented among the set of genes that are believed are important for the evolution of human language. These genes crucially include (and are related to) genes involved in brain rhythmicity. We will claim that this translational effort and the links we uncover may help develop an understanding of language evolution, along with the aetiology of schizophrenia, its clinical/linguistic profile, and its high prevalence among modern populations.', u'To explore the relationship between transcranial current stimulation (tCS) and the electroencephalography (EEG) forward problem, we investigate and compare accuracy and efficiency of a reciprocal and a direct EEG forward approach for dipolar primary current sources both based on the finite element method (FEM), namely the adjoint approach (AA) and the partial integration approach in conjunction with a transfer matrix concept (PI). By analyzing numerical results, comparing to analytically derived EEG forward potentials and estimating computational complexity in spherical shell models, AA turns out to be essentially identical to PI. It is then proven that AA and PI are also algebraically identical even for general head models. This relation offers a direct link between the EEG forward problem and tCS. We then demonstrate how the quasi-analytical EEG forward solutions in sphere models can be used to validate the numerical accuracies of FEM-based tCS simulation approaches. These approaches differ with respect to the ease with which they can be employed for realistic head modeling based on MRI-derived segmentations. We show that while the accuracy of the most easy to realize approach based on regular hexahedral elements is already quite high, it can be significantly improved if a geometry-adaptation of the elements is employed in conjunction with an isoparametric FEM approach. While the latter approach does not involve any additional difficulties for the user, it reaches the high accuracies of surface-segmentation based tetrahedral FEM, which is considerably more difficult to implement and topologically less flexible in practice. Finally, in a highly realistic head volume conductor model and when compared to the regular alternative, the geometry-adapted hexahedral FEM is shown to result in significant changes in tCS current flow orientation and magnitude up to 45 degrees and a factor of 1.66, respectively.', u'Prostate to bone metastases induce a "vicious cycle" by promoting excessive osteoclast and osteoblast mediated bone degradation and formation that in turn yields factors that drive cancer growth.  Recent advances defining the molecular mechanisms that control the vicious cycle have revealed new therapeutic targeting opportunities.  However, given the complex temporal and simultaneous cellular interactions occurring in the bone microenvironment, assessing the impact of putative therapies is challenging.  To this end, we have integrated biological and computational approaches to generate an accurate model of normal bone matrix homeostasis and the prostate cancer-bone microenvironment. The model faithfully reproduces the basic multicellular unit (BMU) bone coupling process and introduction of a single prostate cancer cell yields a vicious cycle that is similar in cellular composition and pathophysiology to models of prostate to bone metastasis.', u'Healthcare-acquired infections (HAIs) kill tens of thousands of people each year and add significantly to healthcare costs. Multidrug resistant and epidemic strains are a large proportion of HAI agents, and multidrug resistant strains of Klebsiella pneumoniae, a leading HAI agent, have become an urgent public health crisis. In the healthcare environment, patient colonization of K. pneumoniae precedes infection, and transmission via colonization leads to outbreaks. Periodic patient screening for K. pneumoniae colonization has cost-effective and life-saving potential. In this study, we describe the design and validation of KlebSeq, a highly informative screening tool that detects Klebsiella species and identifies clinically important strains and characteristics using highly multiplexed amplicon sequencing without a live culturing step. We demonstrate the utility of this tool on several complex specimen types including urine, wound swabs and tissue, several types of respiratory, and fecal, showing K. pneumoniae species and clonal group identification and antimicrobial resistance and virulence profiling, including capsule typing. Use of this amplicon sequencing tool can be used to screen patients for K. pneumoniae carriage to assess risk of infection and outbreak potential, and the expansion of this tool can be used for several other HAI agents or applications.', u'Next generation DNA sequencing methods have created an unprecedented leap in sequence data generation, thus novel computational tools and statistical models are required to optimize and assess the resulting data. In this report, we explore underlying causes of error for the Illumina Genome Analyzer (IGA) sequencing technology and attempt to quantify their effects using a human bacterial artificial chromosome sequenced to 60,000 fold coverage. Seven potential error predictors are considered: Phred score, read entropy, tile coordinates, local tile density, base position within read, nucleotide call, and lane. With these parameters, logistic regression and log-linear models are constructed and used to show that each of the potential predictors contributes to error (P<1x10-4). With this additional information, we apply the logistic model and achieve a 3% improvement in both the sensitivity and specificity to detect IGA errors. Further, we demonstrate that these modeling approaches can be used as a feedback loop to inform laboratory methods and identify specific machine or run bias.', u'MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are endogenous short non-coding RNAs involved in the regulation of gene expression at the post-transcriptional level typically by promoting destabilization or translational repression of target RNAs. Sometimes this regulation is absent or different, which likely is the result of interactions with other post-transcriptional factors, particularly RNA-binding proteins (RBPs). Despite the importance of the interactions between RBPs and miRNAs, little is known about how they affect post-transcriptional regulation in a global scale. In this study, we have analyzed CLIP datasets of 49 RBPs in HEK293 cells with the aim of understanding the interplay between RBPs and miRNAs in post-transcriptional regulation. Our results show that RBPs bind preferentially in conserved regulatory hotspots that frequently contain miRNA target sites. This organization facilitates the competition and cooperation among RBPs and the regulation of miRNA target site accessibility. In some cases RBP enrichment on target sites correlates with miRNA expression, suggesting coordination between the regulatory factors. However, in most cases, competition among factors is the most plausible interpretation of our data. Upon AGO2 knockdown, transcripts that contain such hotspots that overlap target sites of expressed miRNAs in 3\u2032UTRs are significantly less up-regulated than transcripts without them, suggesting that RBP binding limits miRNA accessibility. In conclusion, we show that RBP binding is concentrated in regulatory hotspots in 3\u2032UTRs. The presence of these hotspots facilitates the interaction among post-transcriptional regulators, that interact or compete with each other under different conditions. These hotspots are enriched in genes with regulatory functions such as DNA binding and RNA binding. Taken together, our results suggest that hotspots are important regulatory regions that define an extra layer of auto-regulatory control of post-transcriptional regulation.', u"Background:\nA key challenge in the emerging field of single-cell RNA-Seq is to characterize phenotypic diversity between cells and visualize this information in an informative manner. A common technique when dealing with high-dimensional data is to project the data to 2 or 3 dimensions for visualization.  However, there are a variety of methods to achieve this result and once projected, it can be difficult to ascribe biological significance to the observed features.  Additionally, when analyzing single-cell data, the relationship between cells can be obscured by technical confounders such as variable gene capture rates.\n\nResults:\nTo aid in the analysis and interpretation of single-cell RNA-Seq data, we have developed FastProject, a software tool which analyzes a gene expression matrix and produces a dynamic output report in which two-dimensional projections of the data can be explored.  Annotated gene sets (referred to as gene 'signatures') are incorporated so that features in the projections can be understood in relation to the biological processes they might represent.  FastProject provides a novel method of scoring each cell against a gene signature so as to minimize the effect of missed transcripts as well as a method to rank signature-projection pairings so that meaningful associations can be quickly identified. Additionally, FastProject is written with a modular architecture and designed to serve as a platform for incorporating and comparing new projection methods and gene selection algorithms.\n\nConclusions:\nHere we present FastProject, a software package for two-dimensional visualization of single cell data, which utilizes a plethora of projection methods and provides a way to systematically investigate the biological relevance of these low dimensional representations by incorporating domain knowledge.", u'Premise of the study: Like many other flowering plants, members of the Compositae (Asteraceae) have a polyploid ancestry. Previous analyses have found evidence for an ancient duplication or possibly triplication in the early evolutionary history of the family. We sought to better place this paleopolyploidy in the phylogeny and assess its nature.\n\nMethods: We sequenced new transcriptomes for Barnadesia, the lineage sister to all other Compositae, and four representatives of closely related families. Using a recently developed algorithm, MAPS, we analyzed nuclear gene family phylogenies for evidence of paleopolyploidy.\n\nKey results: We found that the previously recognized Compositae paleopolyploidy is also in the ancestry of the Calyceraceae. Our phylogenomic analyses uncovered evidence for a successive second round of genome duplication among all sampled Compositae except Barnadesia.\n\nConclusions: Our analyses of new samples with new tools provide a revised view of paleopolyploidy in the Compositae. Together with results from recent linkage maps, our results suggest that the Compositae and Calyceraceae have a common paleotetraploid ancestor and most Compositae are descendants of a paleohexaploid. Although paleohexaploids have been previously identified, this is the first example where the paleotetraploid and paleohexaploid lineages have survived over tens of millions of years. The complex polyploidy in the ancestry of the Compositae and Calyceraceae represents a unique opportunity to study the long-term evolutionary fates and consequences of different ploidal levels.', u'Secondary contact is the reestablishment of gene flow between sister populations that have diverged. For instance, at the end of the Quaternary glaciations in Europe, secondary contact occurred during the northward expansion of the populations which had found refugia in the southern peninsulas. With the advent of multi-locus markers, secondary contact can be investigated using various molecular signatures including gradients of allele frequency, admixture clines, and local increase of genetic differentiation. We use coalescent simulations to investigate if molecular data provide enough information to distinguish between secondary contact following range expansion and an alternative evolutionary scenario consisting of a barrier to gene flow in an isolation-by-distance model. Although evidence for secondary contact is usually conveyed by statistics related to admixture coefficients, we find that they have no power to make the distinction. By contrast, the directionality index \u03c8 that was proposed to study range expansion is informative. Additionally, we find that an excess of Linkage Disequilibrium and of genetic diversity at the suture zone is a unique signature of secondary contact. Our findings indicate that inference on secondary contact can be improved when explicitly accounting for the geographical locations of individuals.', u'Background \nDisagreements over genetic signatures associated with disease have been particularly prominent in the field of psychiatric genetics, creating a sharp divide between disease burdens attributed to common and rare variation, with study designs independently targeting each. Meta-analysis within each of these study designs is routine, whether using raw data or summary statistics, but no method for combining the functional conclusions across study designs exist. \nMethod \nIn this work, we develop a general solution which integrates the disparate genetic contributions constrained by their observed effect sizes to determine functional convergence in the underlying architecture of complex diseases, which we illustrate on autism spectrum disorder (ASD) data. Our approach looks not only for similarities in the functional conclusions drawn from each study type individually but also those which are consistent with the known effect sizes across these studies. We name this the "functional effect size trend" and it can be understood as a generalization of a classic meta-analytic method, the funnel plot test.  \nResults \nWe detected remarkably significant trends in aggregate (p~ 1.92e-31) with 20 individually significant properties (FDR<0.01), many in areas researchers have targeted based on different reasoning, such as the fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP) interactor enrichment (FDR~0.006). We are also able to detect novel technical effects and we see that network enrichment from protein-protein interaction data is heavily confounded with study design, arising readily in control data. \nConclusions \nAs a novel means for meta-analysis across study designs, this method reveals a convergent functional signal in ASD from all sources of genetic variation. Meta-analytic approaches explicitly accounting for different study designs can be adapted to other diseases to discover novel functional associations and increase statistical power.', u'To better understand genome regulation, it is important to uncover the role of transcription factors in the process of chromatin structure establishment and maintenance. Here we present a data-driven approach to systematically characterize transcription factors that are relevant for this process. Our method uses a linear mixed modeling approach to combine data sets of transcription factor binding motif enrichments in open chromatin and gene expression across the same set of cell lines. Applying this approach to the ENCODE data set we confirm already known and imply numerous novel transcription factors in playing a role in the establishment or maintenance of open chromatin.', u"What mechanisms support our ability to estimate durations on the order of minutes? Behavioral studies in humans have shown that changes in contextual features lead to overestimation of past durations. Based on evidence that the medial temporal lobes and prefrontal cortex represent contextual features, we related the degree of fMRI pattern change in these regions with people's subsequent duration estimates. After listening to a radio story in the scanner, participants were asked how much time had elapsed between pairs of clips from the story. Our ROI analysis found that the neural pattern distance between two clips at encoding was correlated with duration estimates in the right entorhinal cortex and right pars orbitalis. Moreover, a whole-brain searchlight analysis revealed a cluster spanning the right anterior temporal lobe. Our findings provide convergent support for the hypothesis that retrospective time judgments are driven by 'drift' in contextual representations supported by these regions.", u'The number of sequenced genomes is growing exponentially, profoundly shifting the bottleneck from data generation to genome interpretation. Traits are often used to characterize and distinguish bacteria, and are likely a driving factor in microbial community composition, yet little is known about the traits of most microbes. We present Traitar, the microbial trait analyzer, a fully automated software package for deriving phenotypes from the genome sequence. Traitar accurately predicts 67 traits related to growth, oxygen requirement, morphology, carbon source utilization, antibiotic susceptibility, amino acid degradation, proteolysis, carboxylic acid use and enzymatic activity.\n\nTraitar uses L1-regularized L2-loss support vector machines for phenotype assignments, trained on protein family annotations of a large number of characterized bacterial species, as well as on their ancestral protein family gains and losses. We demonstrate that Traitar can reliably phenotype bacteria even based on incomplete single-cell genomes and simulated draft genomes. We furthermore showcase its application by characterizing two novel Clostridiales based on genomes recovered from the metagenomes of commercial biogas reactors, verifying and complementing a manual metabolic reconstruction.\n\nTraitar enables microbiologists to quickly characterize the rapidly increasing number of bacterial genomes. It could lead to models of microbial interactions in a natural environment and inference of the conditions required to grow microbes in pure culture. Our phenotype prediction framework offers a path to understanding the variation in microbiomes. Traitar is available under the GPL 3.0 license at https://github.com/hzi-bifo/traitar.', u'Over the past several decades, the forensic and population genetic communities have increasingly leveraged short tandem repeats (STRs) for a variety of applications. The advent of next-generation sequencing technologies and STR-specific bioninformatic tools has enabled the profiling of hundreds of thousands of STRs across the genome. Nonetheless, these genotypes remain error-prone, hindering their utility in downstream analyses. One of the primary drivers of STR genotyping errors are \u201cstutter\u201d artifacts arising during the PCR amplification step of library preparation that add or delete copies of the repeat unit in observed sequencing reads. Recently, Illumina developed the TruSeq PCR-free library preparation protocol which eliminates the PCR step and theoretically should reduce stutter error. Here, I compare two high coverage whole genome sequencing datasets prepared with and without the PCR-free protocol. I find that this protocol reduces the percent of reads due to stutter by more than four-fold and results in higher confidence STR genotypes. Notably, stutter at homopolymers was decreased by more than 6-fold, making these previously inaccessible loci amenable to STR calling. This technological improvement shows good promise for significantly increasing the feasibility of obtaining high quality STR genotypes from next-generation sequencing technologies.', u"Reproductive traits in plants tend to evolve rapidly due to various causes that include plant-pollinator coevolution and pollen competition, but the genomic basis of reproductive trait evolution is still largely unknown. To characterise evolutionary patterns of genome wide gene expression in reproductive tissues in the gametophyte and to compare them to developmental stages of the sporophyte, we analysed evolutionary conservation and genetic diversity of protein-coding genes using microarray-based transcriptome data from three plant species, Arabidopsis thaliana, rice (Oryza sativa) and soybean (Glycine max). In all three species a significant shift in gene expression occurs during gametogenesis in which genes of younger evolutionary age and higher genetic diversity contribute significantly more to the transcriptome than in other stages. We refer to this phenomenon as ``evolutionary bulge'' during plant reproductive development because it differentiates the gametophyte from the sporophyte. We show that multiple, not mutually exclusive, causes may explain the bulge pattern, most prominently reduced tissue complexity of the gametophyte, a varying extent of selection on reproductive traits during gametogenesis as well as differences between male and female tissues. This highlights the importance of plant reproduction for understanding evolutionary forces determining the relationship of genomic and phenotypic variation in plants.", u'Classical models of biological invasions assess species spread in homogeneous landscapes by assuming constant growth rates and random local movement. Mounting evidence suggests, however, that demographic stochasticity, environmental heterogeneity and non-random movement of individuals affect considerably the spread dynamics. Here, we show that the dynamics of biological invasions are controlled by the spatial heterogeneity of the resource distribution. We show theoretically that increasing the landscape resource autocorrelation length causes a reduction in the average speed of species spread. Demographic stochasticity plays a key role in the slowdown, which is streghtened when individuals can actively move towards resources. The reduction in the front propagation speed is verified in laboratory microcosm experiments with the flagellated protist Euglena gracilis by comparing spread in habitats characterized by different resource heterogeneity. Our theoretical and experimental findings highlight the need to account for the intrinsic stochasticity of population dynamics to describe spread in spatially extended landscapes, which are inevitably characterized by heterogeneous spatial distributions of resources controlling vital rates. Our work identifies the resource autocorrelation length as a key modulator and a simple measure of landscape susceptibility to biological invasions, with implications for predicting the characters of biological invasions within naturally heterogeneous environmental corridors.', u'Background:  Rhesus macaques are widely used in biomedical research, but the application of genomic information in this species to better understand human disease is still undeveloped. Whole-genome sequence (WGS) data in pedigreed macaque colonies could provide substantial experimental power, but the collection of WGS data in large cohorts remains a formidable expense.  Here, we describe a cost-effective approach that selects the most informative macaques in a pedigree for whole-genome sequencing, and imputes these dense marker data into all remaining individuals having sparse marker data, obtained using Genotyping-By-Sequencing (GBS). \nResults:  We developed GBS for the macaque genome using a single digest with PstI, followed by sequencing to 30X coverage.  From GBS sequence data collected on all individuals in a 16-member pedigree, we characterized an optimal 22,455 sparse markers spaced ~125 kb apart.  To characterize dense markers for imputation, we performed WGS at 30X coverage on 9 of the 16 individuals, yielding ~10.2 million high-confidence variants.  Using the approach of Genotype Imputation Given Inheritance (GIGI), we imputed alleles at an optimized dense set of 4,920 variants on chromosome 19, using 490 sparse markers from GBS.  We assessed changes in accuracy of imputed alleles, 1) across 3 different strategies for selecting individuals for WGS, i.e., a) using GIGI-Pick to select informative individuals, b) sequencing the most recent generation, or c) sequencing founders only; and 2) when using from 1-9 WGS individuals for imputation.  We found that accuracy of imputed alleles was highest using the GIGI-Pick selection strategy (median 92%), and improved very little when using >4 individuals with WGS for imputation.  We used this ratio of 4 WGS to 12 GBS individuals to impute an expanded set of ~14.4 million variants across all 20 macaque autosomes, achieving ~85-88% accuracy per chromosome.\nConclusions:  We conclude that an optimal tradeoff exists at the ratio of 1 individual selected for WGS using the GIGI-Pick algorithm, per 3-5 relatives selected for GBS, a cost savings of ~67-83% over WGS of all individuals. This approach makes feasible the collection of accurate, dense genome-wide sequence data in large pedigreed macaque cohorts without the need for expensive WGS data on all individuals.', u'Hybrid zones formed between recently diverged populations offer an opportunity to study the mechanisms underlying reproductive isolation and the process of speciation. Here, we use a combination of analytical theory and explicit forward simulations to show how selection against hybrid genotypes impacts patterns of introgression across genomic and geographic space. By understanding how lineages move across the hybrid zone, in a model without coalescence, we describe how clines form and how parental haplotypes are broken up during introgression. Clines form in about 1/s generations, where s is the strength of selection against hybrids, and linked clines persist over a physical scale of 1/T, where T is the age, in generations, of the hybrid zone. Locally disadvantageous alleles tend to exist as small families, whose lineages trace back to the side from which they originated at speed \u221as dispersal distances per generation. The lengths of continuous tracts of ancestry provide an additional source of information: blocks of ancestry surrounding single-locus incompatibilities can be substantially longer than the genome-wide average block length at the same spatial location, an observation that might be used to characterize the age of hybrid zones and identify candidate targets of selection.', u'*De novo* inference of clinically relevant gene function relationships from tumor RNA-seq remains a challenging task. In this work we show that Correlation Explanation (CorEx), a recently developed machine learning algorithm that optimizes over multivariate mutual information, achieves significant progress toward this goal. CorEx utilizes high dimensional correlations for a principled construction of relatively independent latent factors that explain dependencies in gene expression among samples. Using only ovarian tumor RNA-seq, CorEx infers gene cohorts with related function, recapitulating Gene Ontology annotation relationships. CorEx is able to identify latent factors that capture dependencies in groups of genes whose expression patterns correlate with patient survival in ovarian cancer. Some inferred pathways such as chemokine signaling and FGF signaling have been implicated previously in chemo responsiveness, but novel survival-associated groups are identified as well. These include a pathway connected with the epithelial-mesenchymal transition in breast cancer that is regulated by a potentially druggable microRNA. Further, it is seen that combinations of factors lead to a synergistic survival advantage in some cases. Comparison to normal ovarian tissue exhibits substantial differences between cancerous and non-cancerous samples related to a variety of cellular processes. In contrast to studies that attempt to partition patients into a small number of subtypes (typically 4 or fewer), our approach utilizes subgroup information for combinatoric transcriptional phenotyping. Considering only the 66 gene expression groups that are found to have significant Gene Ontology enrichment and are also small enough to indicate specific drug targets implies a computational phenotype for ovarian cancer that allows for 366 possible patient profiles, enabling truly personalized treatment. The findings here demonstrate a new technique that sheds light on the complexity of gene expression dependencies in tumors and could eventually enable the use of patient RNA-seq profiles for selection of personalized and effective cancer treatments.', u'Asymmetric cell divisions depend upon the precise placement of the mitotic spindle. In mammalian oocytes, spindles assemble close to the cell center but chromosome segregation takes place at the cell periphery where half of the chromosomes are expelled into small, non-developing polar bodies at anaphases. By dividing so asymmetrically, most of the cytoplasmic content within the oocyte is preserved, which is critical for successful fertilization and early development. Recently, we determined that the nucleoporin ALADIN participates in spindle assembly in somatic cells, and we have also shown that female mice homozygous deficient for ALADIN are sterile.  In this study we show that this protein is involved in specific meiotic stages including meiotic resumption, spindle assembly, and spindle positioning. In the absence of ALADIN, polar body extrusion is impaired in a majority of oocytes due to problems in spindle orientation prior to the first meiotic anaphase. Those few oocytes that can mature far enough to be fertilized in vitro are unable to support embryonic development beyond the two-cell stage. Overall, we find that ALADIN is critical for oocyte maturation and appears to be far more essential for this process than for somatic cell divisions.', u"It was recently shown that the brain-wide cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and interstitial fluid exchange system designated the `glymphatic pathway' plays a key role in removing waste products from the brain, similarly to the lymphatic system in other body organs [1,2]. It is therefore important to study the flow patterns of glymphatic transport through the live brain in order to better understand its functionality in normal and pathological states. Unlike blood, the CSF does not flow rapidly through a network of dedicated vessels, but rather through peri-vascular channels and brain parenchyma in a slower time-domain, and thus conventional fMRI or other blood-flow sensitive MRI sequences do not provide much useful information about the desired flow patterns. We have accordingly analyzed a series of MRI images, taken at different times, of the brain of a live rat, which was injected with a paramagnetic tracer into the CSF via the lumbar intrathecal space of the spine. Our goal is twofold: (a) find glymphatic (tracer) flow directions in the live rodent brain; and (b) provide a model of a (healthy) brain that will allow the prediction of tracer concentrations given initial conditions. We model the liquid flow through the brain by the diffusion equation. We then use the Optimal Mass Transfer (OMT) approach [3] to model the glymphatic flow vector field, and estimate the diffusion tensors by analyzing the (changes in the) flow. Simulations show that the resulting model successfully reproduces the dominant features of the experimental data.", u'Deleterious alleles are more likely to reach high frequency in small populations because of chance fluctuations in allele frequency. This may lead, over time, to reduced average fitness in the population. In that sense, selection is more \u2018effective\u2019 in larger populations. Many recent studies have considered whether the different demographic histories across human populations have resulted in differences in the number, distribution, and severity of deleterious variants, leading to an animated debate. \nThis article seeks to clarify some terms of the debate by identifying differences in definitions and assumptions used in these studies and providing an intuitive explanation for the observed similarity in genetic load among populations.  The intuition is verified through analytical and numerical calculations. First, even though rare variants contribute to load, they contribute little to load differences across populations. Second, the accumulation of non-recessive load after a bottleneck is slow for the weakly deleterious variants that contribute much of the long-term variation among populations. Whereas a bottleneck increases drift instantly, it affects selection only indirectly, so that fitness differences can keep accumulating long after a bottleneck is over. Third, drift and selection tend to have opposite effects on load differentiation under dominance models.  Because of this competition, load differences across populations depend sensitively and intricately on past demographic events and on the distribution of fitness effects. A given bottleneck can lead to increased or decreased load for variants with identical fitness effects, depending on the subsequent population history. Because of this sensitivity, both classical population genetic intuition and detailed simulations are required to understand differences in load across populations.', u'A tragedy of the commons occurs when individuals take actions to maximize their payoffs even as their combined payoff is less than the global maximum had the players coordinated. The originating example is that of over-grazing of common pasture lands. In game theoretic treatments of this example there is rarely consideration of how individual behavior subsequently modiffes the commons and associated payoffs. Here, we generalize evolutionary game theory by proposing a class of replicator dynamics with feedback-evolving games in which environment-dependent payoffs and strategies coevolve. We apply our formulation to a system in which the payoffs favor unilateral defection and cooperation, given replete and depleted environments respectively. Using this approach we identify a new class of dynamics: an oscillatory tragedy of the commons in which the system cycles between deplete and replete environmental states and cooperation and defection behavior states. Further, we utilize fast-slow dynamical systems theory to provide an intuitive explanation for the observed changes. In closing, we propose new directions for the study of control and influence in games in which individual actions exert a substantive effect on the environmental state.', u'Understanding biological processes implies a quantitative description. In recent years a new tool set, Bayesian hierarchical modeling, has seen rapid development. We use these methods to model kinetics of a specific protein in a neuroscience context: melanopsin. Melanopsin is a photoactive protein in retinal ganglion cells. Due to its photoactivity, melanopsin is widely used in optogenetic experiments and an important component in the elucidation of neuronal interactions. Thus it is important to understand the relevant processes and develop mechanistic models. Here, with a focus on methodological aspects, we develop, implement, fit and discuss Bayesian generative models of melanopsin dynamics.\nWe start with a sketch of a basic model and then translate it into formal probabilistic language. As melanopsin occurs in at least two states, a resting and a firing state, a basic model is defined by a non-stationary two state hidden Markov process. Subsequently we add complexities in the form of (1) an hierarchical extension to fit multiple cells; (2) a wavelength dependency, to investigate the response at different color of light stimulation; (3) an additional third state to investigate whether melanopsin is bi- or tri-stable; (4) differences between different sub-types of melanopsin as found in different species. This application of modeling melanopsin dynamics demonstrates several benefits of Bayesian methods. They directly model uncertainty of parameters, are flexible in the distributions and relations of parameters in the modeling, and allow including prior knowledge, for example parameter values based on biochemical data.', u'Bacterial lineages that establish obligate symbiotic associations with insect hosts are known to possess highly reduced genomes with streamlined metabolic functions that are commonly focused on amino acid and vitamin synthesis. We constructed a genome-scale metabolic model of the whitefly bacterial endosymbiont Candidatus Portiera aleyrodidarum to study the energy production capabilities using stoichiometric analysis. Strikingly, the results suggest that the energetic metabolism of the bacterial endosymbiont relies on the use of pathways related to the synthesis of amino acids and carotenoids. A deeper insight showed that the ATP production via carotenoid synthesis may also have a potential role in the regulation of amino acid production.  The coupling of energy production to anabolism suggest that minimization of metabolic networks as a consequence of genome size reduction does not necessarily limit the biosynthetic potential of obligate endosymbionts.', u"Motivation: Gene set enrichment (GSE) analysis  allows researchers to efficiently extract biological insight from long lists of differentially expressed genes by interrogating them at a systems level. In recent years, there has been a proliferation of GSE analysis methods and hence it has become increasingly difficult for researchers to select an optimal GSE tool based on their particular data set. Moreover, the majority of GSE analysis methods do not allow researchers to simultaneously compare gene set level results between multiple experimental conditions.\nResults: The ensemble of genes set enrichment analyses (EGSEA) is a method developed for RNA-sequencing data that combines results from multiple algorithms and calculates collective gene set scores to improve the biological relevance of the highest ranked gene sets. EGSEA has multiple visualization capabilities that allow researchers to view gene sets at various levels of granularity. EGSEA has been tested on a number of human and mouse data sets and, based on biologists' feedback, consistently outperforms the individual tools that have been combined. Our evaluation demonstrates the superiority of the ensemble approach for GSE analysis, and its utility to effectively and efficiently extrapolate biological functions and potential involvement in disease processes from lists of differentially regulated genes.", u'Abstract\tGcn5 is a conserved acetyltransferase that regulates transcription by acetylating the N-terminal tails of histones. Motivated by recent studies identifying a chemically diverse array of lysine acyl modifications in vivo, we examined the acyl chain specificity of the acetyltransferase, human Gcn5 (Gcn5L2). Whereas Gcn5L2 robustly catalyzes lysine acetylation, the acyltransferase activity of Gcn5L2 gets progressively weaker with increasing acyl chain length. To understand how Gcn5 discriminates between different acyl-CoA molecules, we determined structures of the catalytic domain of human Gcn5L2 bound to propionyl-CoA and butyryl-CoA. Although the active site of Gcn5L2 can accommodate propionyl-CoA and butyryl-CoA without major structural rearrangements, butyryl-CoA adopts a conformation incompatible with catalysis that obstructs the path of the incoming lysine residue and acts as a competitive inhibitor for Gcn5L2 versus acetyl-CoA. These structures demonstrate how Gcn5L2 discriminates between acyl chain donors and explain why Gcn5L2 has weak activity for acyl moieties that are larger than an acetyl group.', u'1.\tDuring range expansions or range shifts, the life histories of species evolve due to changing selection pressures or spatial sorting. Despite an increasing number of studies documenting such life-history evolution, we lack a mechanistic understanding of the underlying physiological processes.\n2.\tWe used a powerful metabolomics approach to study physiological changes associated with the recent range expansion of a model arthropod, the two-spotted spider mite Tetranychus urticae.\n3.\tMite populations were sampled in the field along a latitudinal gradient from range core to range edge, and reared under common garden conditions for two generations. Thereafter, we obtained metabolic population profiles using Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectrophotometry (GC-MS).\n4.\tWe found gradual metabolic differentiation along the latitudinal gradient, indicating rapid evolution of the metabolome in association with range expansion. In addition, we observed that some of this differentiation covaried with the life-history evolution previously found to be associated with the mite its range expansion.\n5.\tParticularly, more northern populations, which evolved a higher dispersal tendency, showed lowered concentrations of several essential and non-essential amino acids, suggesting a downregulation of certain metabolic pathways and a potential dispersal-foraging trade-off.', u'The comparison between perceived and unperceived trials at perceptual threshold isolates not only the core neuronal substrate of a particular conscious perception, but also aspects of brain activity that facilitate, hinder or tend to follow conscious perception. We take a step towards the resolution of these confounds by combining an analysis of ECoG neuronal responses observed during the presentation of faces partially masked by Continuous Flash Suppression, and those responses observed during the unmasked presentation of faces and other images in the same subjects. Neuronal activity in both the fusiform gyrus and the superior temporal sulcus discriminated seen vs. unseen faces in the masked paradigm and upright faces vs. other categories in the unmasked paradigm. However, only the former discriminated upright vs. inverted faces in the unmasked paradigm. Our results suggest a prominent role for the fusiform gyrus in the configural perception of faces.', u'Here we use computational modeling of fast neural dynamics to explore the relationship between structural and functional coupling in a population of healthy subjects. We use DTI data to estimate structural connectivity and subsequently model phase couplings from band-limited oscillatory signals derived from multichannel EEG data. Our results show that about 23.4% of the variance in empirical networks of resting-state fast oscillations is explained by the underlying white matter architecture. By simulating functional connectivity using a simple reference model, the match between simulated and empirical functional connectivity further increases to 45.4%. In a second step, we use our modeling framework to explore several technical alternatives along the modeling path. First, we find that an augmentation of homotopic connections in the structural connectivity matrix improves the link to functional connectivity while a correction for fiber distance slightly decreases the performance of the model. Second, a more complex computational model based on Kuramoto oscillators leads to a slight improvement of the model fit. Third, we show that the comparison of modeled and empirical functional connectivity at source level is much more specific for the underlying structural connectivity. However, different source reconstruction algorithms gave comparable results. Of note, as the fourth finding, the model fit was much better if zero-phase lag components were preserved in the empirical functional connectome, indicating a considerable amount of functionally relevant synchrony taking place with near zero or zero-phase lag. The combination of the best performing alternatives at each stage in the pipeline results in a model that explains 54.4% of the variance in the empirical EEG functional connectivity. Our study shows that large-scale brain circuits of fast neural network synchrony strongly rely upon the structural connectome and simple computational models of neural activity can explain missing links in the structure-function relationship.', u'Autophagy is a conserved cellular degradation pathway where in a double membrane vesicle, called as an autophagosome captures long lived proteins, damaged or superfluous organelles and delivers to lysosome for degradation8. We have identified a novel role for septins in autophagy.Septins are GTP binding proteins that localize at the bud-neck and are involved in cytokinesis in budding yeast. We show that septins under autophagy prevalent conditions are majorly localized to the cytoplasm in the form of punctate structures and one of the punctum co-localized with the autophagy protein, Atg8 in WT strain and multiple puncta of septins co-localized with multiple Atg8 puncta in a ypt7\u0394 strain. Interestingly, the septins also formed small non-canonical rings which were different from the canonical bud-neck rings and these non-canonical rings also co-localized with Atg8 during autophagy. Furthermore, we observed that in one of the septin Ts- mutant, cdc10-5, the anterograde trafficking of Atg9 was affected at non-permissive temperature (NPT). All these results suggest a role of septins in early stages of autophagy during autophagosome formation.', u'The ability of many bacteria to adapt to diverse environmental conditions is well known. Recent research has linked the process of bacterial adaptation to a niche to changes in the genome content and size, showing that many bacterial genomes reflect the constraints imposed by their habitat. However, some highly versatile bacteria are found in diverse niches that almost share nothing in common. Lactobacillus plantarum is a lactic acid bacterium that is found in a large variety of niches. With the aim of unravelling the link between genome evolution and ecological versatility of L. plantarum, we analysed the genomes of 54 L. plantarum strains isolated from different environments. Phylogenomic analyses coupled with the study of genetic functional divergence and gene-trait matching analysis revealed a mixed distribution of the strains, which was uncoupled from their environmental origin. Our findings demonstrate the high complexity of L. plantarum evolution, revealing the absence of specific genomic signatures marking adaptations of this species towards the diverse habitats it is associated with. This suggests fundamentally similar and parallel trends of genome evolution in L. plantarum, which occur in a manner that is apparently uncoupled from ecological constraint and reflects the nomadic lifestyle of this species.', u'Parental exposure to an environmental challenge can induce phenotypes in offspring independent of the inherited DNA sequence. Whether such acquired traits can be inherited,  i.e., can manifest in a generation beyond that exposed to the precipitating insult as germ cells, is unclear. Here we report a latent metabolic phenotype induced by paternal obesity that is inherited into a second generation, without germ cell exposure. Sons of obese male mice exhibit defects in glucose and lipid metabolism that are only unmasked by post-weaning dietary challenge, yet they transmit these defects to their own progeny (F2) in the absence of the challenge. F1 sperm exhibit changes in the abundance of several small RNA species, including diet responsive tRNA-derived fragments. These data suggest that induced metabolic phenotypes may be propagated for multiple generations through the actions of noncoding RNA.', u'Conservation ecologists have long argued over the best way of placing reserves across an environment to maximize population diversity. Many have studied the effect of protecting many small regions of an ecosystem vs. a single large region, with varied results. However, this research tends to ignore evolutionary dynamics under the rationale that the spatiotemporal scale required is prohibitive. We used the Avida digital evolution research platform to overcome this barrier and study the response of phenotypic diversity to eight different reserve placement configurations. The capacity for mutation,and therefore evolution, substantially altered the dynamics of diversity in the population. When mutations were allowed, reserve configurations involving a greater number of consequently smaller reserves were substantially more effective at maintaining existing diversity and generating new diversity. However, when mutations were disallowed, reserve configuration had little effect on diversity generation and maintenance. While further research is necessary before translating these results into policy decisions, this study demonstrates the importance of considering evolution when making such decisions and suggests that a larger number of smaller reserves may have evolutionary benefits.', u'What adaptive changes in brain structure and function underpin the evolution of increased cognitive performance in humans and our close relatives?  Identifying the genetic basis of brain evolution has become a major tool in answering this question. Numerous cases of positive selection, altered gene expression or gene duplication have been identified that may contribute to the evolution of the neocortex, which is widely assumed to play a predominant role in cognitive evolution.  However, the neocortex co-evolves with other, functionally inter-dependent, regions of the brain, most notably the cerebellum. The cerebellum is linked to a range of cognitive tasks and expanded rapidly during hominoid evolution, independently of neocortex size. Here we demonstrate that, across primates, genes with known roles in cerebellum development are just as likely to be targeted by selection as genes linked to cortical development. In fact, cerebellum genes are more likely to have evolved adaptively during hominoid evolution, consistent with phenotypic data suggesting an accelerated rate of cerebellar expansion in apes. Finally, we present evidence that selection targeted genes with specific effects on either the neocortex or cerebellum, not both. This suggests cortico-cerebellar co-evolution is maintained by selection acting on independent developmental programs.', u"One goal of human genetics is to understand the genetic basis of disease, a challenge for diseases of complex inheritance because risk alleles are few relative to the vast set of benign variants. Risk variants are often sought by association studies in which allele frequencies in cases are contrasted with those from population-based samples used as controls. In an ideal world we would know population-level allele frequencies, releasing researchers to focus on case subjects. We argue this ideal is possible, at least theoretically, and we outline a path to achieving it in reality. If such a resource were to exist, it would yield ample savings and would facilitate the effective use of data repositories by removing administrative and technical barriers. We call this concept the Universal Control Repository Network (UNICORN), a means to perform association analyses without necessitating direct access to individual-level control data. Our approach to UNICORN uses existing genetic resources and various statistical tools to analyze these data, including hierarchical clustering with spectral analysis of ancestry; and empirical Bayesian analysis along with Gaussian spatial processes to estimate ancestry-specific allele frequencies. We demonstrate our approach using tens of thousands of controls from studies of Crohn's disease, showing how it controls false positives, provides power similar to that achieved when all control data are directly accessible, and enhances power when control data are limiting or even imperfectly matched ancestrally. These results highlight how UNICORN can enable reliable, powerful and convenient genetic association analyses without access to the individual level data.", u'Lactoferrin is a multifunctional mammalian immunity protein that limits microbial growth through sequestration of nutrient iron. Additionally, lactoferrin possesses cationic protein domains that directly bind and inhibit diverse microbes. The implications for these dual functions on lactoferrin evolution and genetic conflicts with pathogens remain unclear. Here we show that lactoferrin has been subject to recurrent episodes of positive selection during primate divergence predominately at antimicrobial peptide surfaces consistent with long-term antagonism by pathogens. An abundant lactoferrin polymorphism in human populations and Neanderthals also exhibits signatures of positive selection across primates, linking ancient host-microbe conflicts to modern human genetic variation. Rapidly evolving sites in lactoferrin further correspond to molecular interfaces with pathogenic bacteria causing meningitis, pneumonia, and sepsis. Because microbes actively target lactoferrin to acquire iron, we propose that the emergence of antimicrobial activity provided a pivotal mechanism of adaptation sparking evolutionary conflicts via acquisition of new protein functions.', u'During ecological speciation diverging populations are exposed to contrasting sensory and spatial information that present new behavioral and perceptive challenges. Here, we investigate how brain composition evolves during the early stages of speciation. The incipient species pair, Heliconius erato cyrbia and H. himera, have parapatric ranges across an environmental and altitudinal gradient. Despite continuing gene-flow, these species have divergent ecological, behavioral and physiological traits. We demonstrate that these incipient species also differ significantly in brain composition, especially in the size of sensory structures. H. erato has larger visual components whilst H. himera invests more heavily in olfaction. These differences are not explained by environmentally-induced plasticity, but reflect non-allometric shifts in brain structure. Our results suggest the adaptive evolution of brain structure and function play an important role in facilitating the emergence of ecologically distinct species, and imply that plasticity alone may be insufficient to meet the demands of novel environments.', u'CRISPR-Cas9 and related technologies efficiently alter genomic DNA at targeted positions and have far-reaching implications for functional screening and therapeutic gene editing.  Understanding and unlocking this potential requires accurate evaluation of editing efficiency.  We show that methodological decisions for analyzing sequencing data can significantly affect mutagenesis efficiency estimates and we provide a comprehensive R-based toolkit, CrispRVariants and accompanying web tool CrispRVariantsLite, that resolves and localizes individual mutant alleles with respect to the endonuclease cut site.  CrispRVariants-enabled analyses of newly generated and existing genome editing datasets underscore how careful consideration of the full variant spectrum gives insight toward effective guide and amplicon design as well as the mutagenic process.', u'Bacterially produced biodegradable polyhydroxyalkanoates with versatile properties can be achieved using different PHA synthase enzymes. This work aims to expand the diversity of known PHA synthases via functional metagenomics, and demonstrates the use of these novel enzymes in PHA production. Complementation of a PHA synthesis deficient Pseudomonas putida strain with a soil metagenomic cosmid library retrieved 27 clones expressing either Class I, Class II or unclassified PHA synthases, and many did not have close sequence matches to known PHA synthases. The composition of PHA produced by these clones was dependent on both the supplied growth substrates and the nature of the PHA synthase, with various combinations of SCL- and MCL-PHA. These data demonstrate the ability to isolate diverse genes for PHA synthesis by functional metagenomics, and their use for the production of a variety of PHA polymer and copolymer mixtures.', u'Individuals with lower socio-economic status (SES) are at increased risk of physical and mental illnesses and tend to die at an earlier age [1-3]. Explanations for the association between SES and health typically focus on factors that are environmental in origin [4]. However, common single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) have been found collectively to explain around 18% (SE = 5%) of the phenotypic variance of an area-based social deprivation measure of SES [5]. Molecular genetic studies have also shown that physical and psychiatric diseases are at least partly heritable [6]. It is possible, therefore, that phenotypic associations between SES and health arise partly due to a shared genetic etiology. We conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) on social deprivation and on household income using the 112,151 participants of UK Biobank. We find that common SNPs explain 21% (SE = 0.5%) of the variation in social deprivation and 11% (SE = 0.7%) in household income. Two independent SNPs attained genome-wide significance for household income, rs187848990 on chromosome 2, and rs8100891 on chromosome 19. Genes in the regions of these SNPs have been associated with intellectual disabilities, schizophrenia, and synaptic plasticity. Extensive genetic correlations were found between both measures of socioeconomic status and illnesses, anthropometric variables, psychiatric disorders, and cognitive ability. These findings show that some SNPs associated with SES are involved in the brain and central nervous system. The genetic associations with SES are probably mediated via other partly-heritable variables, including cognitive ability, education, personality, and health.', u"Bovine leukemia virus latency is a viral strategy used to escape from the host immune system and contribute to tumor development. However, a highly expressed BLV micro-RNA cluster has been reported, suggesting that the BLV silencing is not complete. Here, we demonstrate the in vivo recruitment of RNA polymerase III to the BLV miRNA cluster both in BLV-latently infected cell lines and in ovine BLV-infected primary cells, through a canonical type 2 RNAPIII promoter. Moreover, by RPC6-knockdown, we showed, for the first time, a direct functional link between RNAPIII transcription and BLV miRNAs expression. Furthermore, both the tumor- and the quiescent-related isoforms of RPC7 subunits were recruited to the miRNA cluster. We showed that the BLV miRNA cluster was enriched in positive epigenetic marks. Interestingly, we demonstrated the in vivo recruitment of RNAPII at the 3'LTR/host genomic junction, associated with positive epigenetic marks. Functionally, we showed that the BLV LTR exhibited a strong antisense promoter activity and provided evidence for a collision between RNAPIII and RNAPII convergent transcriptions. Our results provide new insights into alternative ways used by BLV to counteract silencing of the viral 5'LTR promoter.", u'Gene body methylation (gbM) is an ancestral and widespread feature in Eukarya, yet its adaptive value and evolutionary implications remain unresolved. The occurrence of gbM within protein coding sequences is particularly puzzling, because methylation causes cytosine hypermutability and hence is likely to produce deleterious amino acid substitutions. We investigate this enigma using an evolutionarily basal group of Metazoa, the stony corals (order Scleractinia, class Anthozoa, phylum Cnidaria). We show that gbM correlates with breadth and abundance of transcription and with slow sequence evolution. We also show a strong correlation between gbM and codon bias due to systematic replacement of CpG bearing codons. We suggest that the ancestral function of gene body methylation is tied to selective pressure for accurate and stable gene expression, and that mutation caused by gbM may be a previously unrecognized driver of adaptive codon evolution.', u'Mucus is a complex biological fluid that plays a variety of functional roles in many physiological systems. Intestinal mucus in particular serves as a physical barrier to pathogens, a medium for the diffusion of nutrients and metabolites, and an environmental home for colonizing microbes. Its rheological properties have therefore been the subject of many investigations, thus far limited, however, to in vitro studies due to the difficulty of measurement in the natural context of the gut.  This limitation especially hinders our understanding of how the gut microbiota interact with the intestinal environment, since examination of this calls not only for in vivo measurement techniques, but for techniques that can be applied to model organisms in which the microbial state of the gut can be controlled. We address this challenge by developing a method that combines magnetic microrheology, light sheet fluorescence microscopy, and microgavage of particles, applying this to the larval zebrafish, a model vertebrate.  We present measurements of the viscosity of mucus within the intestinal bulb of both germ-free (devoid of intestinal microbes) and conventionally reared larval zebrafish. At the length scale probed (\u2248 10 \u03bc m), we find that mucus behaves as a Newtonian fluid, with no discernable elastic component. Surprisingly, despite known differences in the the number of secretory cells in germ-free zebrafish and their conventional counterparts, the fluid viscosity for these two groups was very similar. Our measurements provide the first in vivo measurements of intestinal mucus rheology at micron length scales in living animals, quantifying of an important biomaterial environment and highlighting the utility of active magnetic microrheology for biophysical studies.', u'Most plant-feeding insects are ecological specialists restricted to one or a few closely related host-plant species. A long-standing hypothesis asserts that natural selection favors host specialization because of trade-offs between performance on alternative hosts, yet empirical evidence for such trade-offs is scarce. Here we assess trade-offs between adaptations to alternative hosts over macroevolutionary timescales in two major orders of plant-feeding insects: Lepidoptera (caterpillars) and Hemiptera (true bugs). Across 1604 caterpillar species, we find both positive and negative associations between presence on diverse host taxa. The patterns of these associations suggest that different trade-offs constrain host-use over short and long evolutionary timescales. In contrast, host-use patterns of 955 true bug species reveal uniformly positive associations between adaptations to the same host taxa over both timescales. The lack of consistent patterns across timescales and insect orders indicates that host-use trade-offs are historically contingent rather than universal constraints. Moreover, we observe only broad trade-offs, suggesting that alternative evolutionary processes drive the high degree of ecological specialization observed in most plant-feeding insects.', u'Flowers face desiccating conditions, yet little is known about their ability to transport water.  We quantified variability in floral hydraulic conductance (Kflower) for 20 species from 10 families and related it to traits hypothesized to be associated with liquid and vapor phase water transport.  Basal angiosperm flowers had trait values associated with higher water and carbon costs than monocot and eudicot flowers.  Kflower was coordinated with water supply (vein length per area, VLA) and loss (minimum epidermal conductance, gmin) traits among the magnoliids, but was insensitive to variation in these traits among the monocots and eudicots. Phylogenetic independent contrast (PIC) correlations revealed that few traits had undergone coordinated evolution.  However, VLA and the desiccation time (Tdes), the quotient of water content and gmin, had significant trait and PIC correlations.  The near absence of stomata from monocot and eudicot flowers may have been critical in minimizing water loss rates among these clades.  Early-divergent, basal angiosperm flowers maintain higher Kflower due to traits associated with high rates water loss and water supply, while monocot and eudicot flowers employ a more conservative strategy of limiting water loss and may rely on stored water to maintain turgor and delay desiccation.', u'Analysis of environmental DNA (eDNA) enables the detection of species of interest from water and soil samples, typically using species-specific PCR. Here, we describe a method to characterize the biodiversity of a given environment by amplifying eDNA using primer pairs targeting a wide range of taxa and high-throughput sequencing for species identification. We tested this approach on 91 water samples of 40 mL collected along the Cuyahoga River (Ohio, USA). We amplified eDNA using 12 primer pairs targeting mammals, fish, amphibians, birds, bryophytes, arthropods, copepods, plants and several microorganism taxa and sequenced all PCR products simultaneously by high-throughput sequencing. Overall, we identified DNA sequences from 15 species of fish, 17 species of mammals, 8 species of birds, 15 species of arthropods, one turtle and one salamander. Interestingly, in addition to aquatic and semi-aquatic animals, we identified DNA from terrestrial species that live near the Cuyahoga River. We also identified DNA from one Asian carp species invasive to the Great Lakes but that had not been previously reported in the Cuyahoga River. Our study shows that analysis of eDNA extracted from small water samples using wide-range PCR amplification combined with high-throughput sequencing can provide a broad perspective on biological diversity.', u'The current outbreak of Zika virus poses a threat of unknown magnitude to human health. While the range of the virus has been cataloged growing slowly over the last 50 years, the recent explosive expansion in the Americas indicates that the full potential distribution of Zika remains uncertain. Moreover, most current epidemiology relies on its similarities to dengue fever, a phylogenetically closely related disease of unknown similarity in spatial range or ecological niche. Here we compile the first spatially explicit global occurrence dataset from Zika viral surveillance and serological surveys, and construct ecological niche models to test basic hypotheses about its spread and potential establishment. The hypothesis that the outbreak of cases in Mexico and North America are anomalous and outside the ecological niche of the disease, and may be linked to El Nino or similar climatic events, remains plausible at this time. Comparison of the Zika niche against the known distribution of dengue fever suggests that Zika is more constrained by the seasonality of precipitation and diurnal temperature fluctuations, likely confining the disease to the tropics outside of pandemic scenarios. Projecting the range of the diseases in conjunction with vector species (Aedes africanus, Ae. aegypti, and Ae. albopictus) that transmit the pathogens, under climate change, suggests that Zika has potential for northward expansion; but, based on current knowledge, Zika is unlikely to fill the full range its vectors occupy. With recent sexual transmission of the virus known to have occurred in the United States, we caution that our results only apply to the vector-borne aspect of the disease, and while the threat of a mosquito-carried Zika pandemic may be overstated in the media, other transmission modes of the virus may emerge and facilitate naturalization worldwide.', u'The local chromatin environment is a key regulator of DNA-templated processes including transcription, DNA replication, and DNA repair. The methylation state of lysine 20 on histone H4 (H4K20) has been linked to cell cycle progression, origin recognition complex (ORC) binding, pre-Replication Complex (pre-RC) assembly, and activation of replication origins. Monomethylation of H4K20 (H4K20me1) is mediated by the cell cycle-regulated histone methyltransferase PR-Set7. PR-Set7 depletion in mammalian cells results in defective S-phase progression and the accumulation of DNA damage, which could be partially attributed to a defect in pre-RC formation and origin activity. However, these studies were limited to only a handful of mammalian origins, and it remains unclear how PR-Set7 and H4K20 methylation impact the replication program on a genomic scale. Using Drosophila Kc167 cells, we employed genetic, cytological, and genomic approaches to better understand the role of PR-Set7 and H4K20 methylation in regulating DNA replication and governing genome stability. We find that depletion of Drosophila PR-Set7 and loss of H4K20me1 result in the accumulation of DNA damage and an ATR-dependent cell cycle arrest. The cell cycle arrest occurs during the second S phase following loss of PR-Set7 activity, suggesting that accumulation of nascent H4K20 is recalcitrant to the DNA replication program. Deregulation of H4K20 methylation had no impact on origin activation throughout the genome; instead, we found that the DNA damage marker, phosphorylated H2A.v (\u03b3-H2A.v), accumulated specifically in late replicating domains in the absence of PR-Set7. We conclude that PR-Set7-mediated monomethylation of H4K20 is critical for maintaining the genomic integrity of late replicating domains.', u'Despite the well-known influence of environmental context on episodic memory, little has been done to enhance contextual richness within the lab. This leaves a blind spot lingering over the neuronal correlates of episodic memory formation in the real world. To address this, we presented participants with series of words to memorise along a pre-designated route across campus. Meanwhile, a mobile EEG system acquired the associated neural activity. Replicating lab-based subsequent memory effects (SMEs), we identified significant low-frequency power decreases, including beta power decreases over the left inferior frontal gyrus. Additionally, the paradigm enabled us to dissociate the oscillatory correlates of temporal and spatial clustering. Specifically, we found spatially clustered items exhibited significantly greater theta power decreases within the left medial temporal lobe than temporally clustered items. These findings go beyond lab-based studies, which are limited in their capabilities to investigate environmental contextual factors that guide memory formation.', u"Today experimental groups routinely apply ChIP-seq technology to quantitatively characterize the genome-wide binding patterns of any molecule associated with the DNA. Here we present Crunch, a completely automated procedure for ChIP-seq data analysis, starting from raw read quality control, through read mapping, peak detection and annotation, and including comprehensive DNA sequence motif analysis. Among Crunch's novel features are a Bayesian mixture model that automatically fits a noise model and infers significantly enriched genomic regions in parallel, as well as a Gaussian mixture model for decomposing enriched regions into individual binding peaks. Moreover, Crunch uses a combination of de novo motif finding with binding site prediction for a large collection of known regulatory motifs to model the observed ChIP-seq signal in terms of novel and known regulatory motifs, extensively characterizing the contribution of each motif to explaining the ChIP-seq signal, and annotating which combinations of motifs occur in each binding peak. To make Crunch easily available to all researchers, including those without bioinformatics expertise, Crunch has been implemented as a web server (crunch.unibas.ch) that only requires users to upload their raw sequencing data, providing all results within an interactive graphical web interface.\nTo demonstrate Crunch's power we apply it to a collection of 128 ChIP-seq data-sets from the ENCODE project, showing that Crunch's de novo motifs often outperform existing motifs in explaining the ChIP-seq signal, and that Crunch successfully identifies binding partners of the proteins that were immuno-precipitated.", u'Suboptimal biocompatibility of cardiovascular stents manifest as non-compliance at stent-artery interface in vivo. We optimized a plasma-activated coating (PAC) technology to modify cobalt chromium alloy L605 (PAC-L605) surface of an implantable coronary stent material, for improved biofunctionalization.  The PAC-L605 surfaces displayed covalent binding capacity of a protein candidate tropoelastin (TE) by retaining 70.3% of TE after SDS detergent washing. Human coronary artery endothelial cell (HCAEC) proliferation visualized with crystal violet staining, did not vary significantly among the biomaterials at 3 or 5 days. Anchorage of cell cytoskeleton visualized with immunofluorescence and scanning electron microscopy (SEM), showed homogenous cell morphology on PAC/TE (with TE) surfaces. Surface hemocompatibility was assessed with static and flow blood assays, the hydrophilic PAC-L605 displayed lower clot formation compared to L605. Area of surface fibrinogen deposited was significantly lower on PAC-L605 vs. L605. Selected ISO 10993-4 tests for biological evaluation of medical devices in contact with blood indicated significantly lowered plasma markers of thrombin-antithrombin complex (TAT), beta-thromboglobulin (\u03b2-TG), soluble P-selectin and soluble terminal complement complex (SC5b-9) on PAC-L605 vs. L605. There was no significant difference for plasma biomarkers of polymorphonuclear elastase (PMN elastase) on PAC-L605 vs. L605. Improved surface biofunctionalization of implantable cardiovascular materials could be achieved by plasma-activated coating (PAC).', u'Laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma (LSCC) is one of the most common and aggressive malignancies in the upper digestive tract that has a high mortality rate and a poor prognosis. Prognostic factors were determined through multivariate Cox regression analysis. The overall survival rates were calculated by the Kaplan-Meier method. The SPSS statistical software package version 17.0 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA) was used for all analyses. Median follow-up was 38 (range 3-122) months and the median survival time was 48 months. We adjusted to confounding factors (total laryngectomy, poor differentiation, T3-T4 stage, N1-N2 stage, III-IV TNM stage) into multivariate Cox proportional hazards model, we confirmed rs11903757 GT genotype (HR = 2.036; 95% CI, 1.071 - 3.872; p = 0.030) and rs966423 TT genotype (HR = 11.677; 95% CI, 3.901 - 34.950; p = 0.000) were significantly correlated with prognostic survival of patients with LSCC compared with rs11903757 TT genotype and rs966423 CC genotype, respectively. Our research provided new evidence for patients with LSCC, it seemed to be the first that demonstrated rs11903757 GT genotype on chromosome 2q32.3 close to NABP1 and rs966423 TT genotype in the intron region of DIRC3 on chromosome 2q35 predict poor prognostic survival in patients with LSCC.', u'Recent studies of protein evolution contend that the longer an amino acid substitution is present at a site, the less likely it is to revert to the amino acid previously occupying that site. Here we study this phenomenon of decreasing reversion rates rigorously, and in a much more general context.  We show that, under weak mutation and for arbitrary fitness landscapes, reversion rates decrease with time for any site that is involved in at least one epistatic interaction. Specifically, we prove that, at stationarity, the hazard function of the distribution of waiting times until reversion is strictly decreasing for any such site. Thus, in the presence of epistasis, the longer a particular character has been absent from a site, the less likely the site will revert to its prior state. We also explore several examples of this general result, which share a common pattern whereby the probability of having reverted increases rapidly at short times to some substantial value before becoming almost flat after a few substitutions at other sites.  This pattern indicates a characteristic tendency for reversion to occur either almost immediately after the initial substitution or only after a very long time.', u'Background\nLow birth weight and postnatal growth restriction are the most evident symptoms of dwarfism. Accompanying skeletal aberrations may compromise the general condition and locomotion of affected individuals. Several paternal half sibs with low birth weight and size were born in 2013 in the Fleckvieh cattle population.\n\nResults\nAffected calves were strikingly underweight at birth despite a normal gestation length and had craniofacial abnormalities such as elongated narrow heads and brachygnathia inferior. Despite a normal general condition, their growth remained restricted during rearing. We genotyped 27 affected and 10,454 unaffected animals at 44,672 SNPs and performed association testing followed by homozygosity mapping to map the growth failure to a 1.85 Mb segment on bovine chromosome 3. Analysis of whole-genome re-sequencing data from one affected and 289 unaffected animals revealed a 1bp deletion (g.15079217delC, rs723240647) in the coding region of the GON4L gene that segregated with the dwarfism-associated haplotype. We show that the deletion introduces intron retention and premature termination of translation, putatively resulting in a severely truncated protein that lacks domains that are likely essential to normal protein function. The widespread use of an unnoticed carrier bull for artificial insemination has resulted in a tenfold increase in the frequency of the deleterious allele in the female population.\n\nConclusions\nA frameshift mutation in GON4L is associated with autosomal recessive proportionate dwarfism in Fleckvieh cattle. The mutation has segregated in the population for more than fifty years without being recognized as a genetic disorder. However, the widespread use of an unnoticed carrier bull for artificial insemination caused a sudden accumulation of homozygous calves with dwarfism. Our findings provide the basis for genome-based mating strategies to avoid the inadvertent mating of carrier animals and thereby prevent the birth of homozygous calves with impaired growth.', u'Data from ChIP-seq experiments can determine the genome-wide binding specificities of transcription factors (TFs) and other regulatory proteins. In the present study, we analyzed 745 ENCODE ChIP-seq peak datasets of 189 human TFs with a novel motif discovery method that is based on recursive, thresholded entropy minimization. This method is able to distinguish correct information models from noisy motifs, quantify the strengths of individual sites based on affinity, and detect adjacent cofactor binding sites that coordinate with primary TFs. We derived homogeneous and bipartite information models for 89 sequence-specific TFs, which enabled discovery of 24 cofactor motifs for 118 TFs, and revealed 6 high-confidence novel motifs. The reliability and accuracy of these models were determined via three independent quality control criteria, including the detection of experimentally proven binding sites, comparison with previously published motifs and statistical analyses. We also predict previously unreported TF cobinding interactions, and new components of known TF complexes. Because they are based on information theory, the derived models constitute a powerful tool for detecting and predicting the effects of variants in known binding sites, and predicting previously unrecognized binding sites and target genes.', u'Identical by descent (IBD) segments are used to understand a number of fundamental issues in genetics. IBD segments are typically detected using long stretches of identical alleles between haplotypes in whole-genome SNP data. Phase or SNP call errors in genomic data can degrade accuracy of IBD detection and lead to false positive calls, false negative calls, and under- or overextension of true IBD segments. Furthermore, the number of comparisons increases quadratically with sample size, requiring high computational efficiency. We developed a new IBD segment detection program, FISHR (Find IBD Shared Haplotypes Rapidly), in an attempt to accurately detect IBD segments and to better estimate their endpoints using an algorithm that is fast enough to be deployed on the very large whole-genome SNP datasets. We compared the performance of FISHR to three leading IBD segment detection programs: GERMLINE, refinedIBD, and HaploScore. Using simulated and real genomic sequence data, we show that FISHR is slightly more accurate than all programs at detecting long (greater than 3 cM) IBD segments but slightly less accurate than refinedIBD at detecting short (1 cM) IBD segments. Moreover, FISHR outperforms all programs in determining the true endpoints of IBD segments, which is important for several reasons. FISHR takes two to four times longer than GERMLINE to run, whereas both GERMLINE and FISHR were orders of magnitude faster than refinedIBD and HaploScore. Overall, FISHR provides accurate IBD detection in unrelated individuals and is computationally efficient enough to be utilized on large SNP datasets greater than 20,000 individuals.', u'The hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis is a neuroendocrine system that regulates numerous physiological processes.  Disruptions in the activity of the HPA axis are correlated with many stress-related diseases such as post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and major depressive disorder.  In this paper, we characterize "normal" and "diseased" states of the HPA axis as basins of attraction of a dynamical system describing the inhibition of peptide hormones such as corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) by circulating glucocorticoids such as cortisol (CORT).  In addition to including key physiological features such as ultradian oscillations in cortisol levels and self-upregulation of CRH neuron activity, our model distinguishes the relatively slow process of cortisol-mediated CRH biosynthesis from rapid trans-synaptic effects that regulate the CRH secretion process.  Crucially, we find that the slow regulation mechanism mediates external stress-driven transitions between the stable states in novel, intensity, duration, and timing-dependent ways.  These results indicate that the timing of traumatic events may be an important factor in determining if and how patients will exhibit hallmarks of stress disorders. Our model also suggests a mechanism whereby exposure therapy of stress disorders such as PTSD may act to normalize downstream dysregulation of the HPA axis.', u'Siddharth Krishna Kumar and co-authors claim to have shown that "GCTA applied to current SNP data cannot produce reliable or stable estimates of heritability." Given the numerous recent studies on the genetic architecture of complex traits that are based on this methodology, these claims have important implications for the field. Through an investigation of the stability of the likelihood function under phenotype perturbation and an analysis of its dependence on the spectral properties of the genetic relatedness matrix, our study characterizes the properties of an important approach to the analysis of GWAS data and identified crucial errors in the authors\' analyses, invalidating their main conclusions.', u'Dosage compensation is a fundamental mechanism in many species that corrects for the inherent imbalance in X-chromosome copy number between XY males and XX females. In Drosophila melanogaster, transcriptional output from the single male X-chromosome is equalized to that of XX females by recruitment of the Male Specific Lethal (MSL) complex to specific sequences along the length of the X-chromosome.  The initial recruitment of MSL complex to the X-chromosome is dependent on a recently discovered zinc finger protein called Chromatin-Linked Adapter for MSL Proteins (CLAMP). However, further studies on the in vivo function of CLAMP remained difficult because the location of the gene in pericentric heterochromatin made it challenging to create null mutations or deficiencies. Using the CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing system, we generated the first null mutant in the clamp gene that eliminates expression of CLAMP protein. We show that CLAMP is necessary for both male and female viability. While females die at the third instar larval stage, males die earlier, likely due to the essential role of CLAMP in male dosage compensation. Moreover, we demonstrate that CLAMP promotes dosage compensation in males and represses key male-specific transcripts involved in sex-determination in females. Our results reveal that CLAMP is an essential protein with dual roles in males and females, which together assure that dosage compensation is a sex-specific process.', u'A combination of selective and neutral evolutionary forces shape patterns of genetic diversity in nature. Among the insects, most previous analyses of the roles of drift and selection in shaping variation across the genome have focused on the genus Drosophila. A more complete understanding of these forces will come from analysing other taxa that differ in population demography and other aspects of biology. We have analysed diversity and signatures of selection in the neotropical Heliconius butterflies using resequenced genomes from 58 wild-caught individuals of H. melpomene, and another 21 resequenced genomes representing 11 related species. By comparing intra-specific diversity and inter-specific divergence, we estimate that 31% of amino acid substitutions between Heliconius species are adaptive. Diversity at putatively neutral sites is negatively correlated with gene density and positively correlated with recombination rate, indicating widespread linked selection. This process also manifests in significantly reduced diversity on longer chromosomes, consistent with lower recombination rates. Genetic hitchhiking around beneficial non-synonymous mutations has also had a significant impact on genetic variation in this species, but evidence for strong selective sweeps was limited overall. We did however identify two regions where distinct haplotypes have swept in different populations, leading to increased population differentiation. On the whole, our study suggests that positive selection is less pervasive in these butterflies as compared to fruit flies; a fact that curiously results in very similar levels of neutral diversity in these very different insects.', u'Linear mixed models (LMMs) are among the most commonly used tools for genetic association studies. However, the standard method for estimating variance components in LMMs -- the restricted maximum likelihood estimation method (REML) -- suffers from several important drawbacks: REML is computationally slow, requires individual-level genotypes and phenotypes, and produces biased estimates in case control studies. To remedy these drawbacks, we present an alternative framework for variance component estimation, which we refer to as MQS. MQS is based on the method of moments (MoM) and the minimal norm quadratic unbiased estimation (MINQUE) criteria, and brings two seemingly unrelated methods -- the renowned Haseman-Elston (HE) regression and the recent LD score regression (LDSC) -- into the same unified framework. With this new framework, we provide an alternative but mathematically equivalent form of HE that allows for the use of summary statistics and is faster to compute. We also provide an exact estimation form of LDSC to yield unbiased and more accurate estimates with calibrated confidence intervals. A key feature of our method is that it can effectively use a small random subset of individuals for computation while still producing estimates that are almost as accurate as if the full data were used. As a result, our method produces unbiased and accurate estimates with calibrated standard errors, while it is computationally efficient for large data sets. Using simulations and applications to 33 phenotypes from 7 real data sets, we illustrate the benefits of our method for estimating and partitioning chip heritability. Our method is implemented in the GEMMA software package, freely available at www.xzlab.org/software.html.', u"Higher paternal age at offspring conception increases de novo genetic mutations (Kong et al., 2012). Based on evolutionary genetic theory we predicted that the offspring of older fathers would be less likely to survive and reproduce, i.e. have lower fitness. In a sibling control study, we find clear support for negative paternal age effects on offspring survival, mating and reproductive success across four large populations with an aggregate N > 1.3 million in main analyses. Compared to a sibling born when the father was 10 years younger, individuals had 4-13% fewer surviving children in the four populations. Three populations were pre-industrial (1670-1850) Western populations and showed a pattern of paternal age effects across the offspring's lifespan. In 20th-century Sweden, we found no negative paternal age effects on child survival or marriage odds. Effects survived tests for competing explanations, including maternal age and parental loss. To the extent that we succeeded in isolating a mutation-driven effect of paternal age, our results can be understood to show that de novo mutations reduce offspring fitness across populations and time. We can use this understanding to predict the effect of increasingly delayed reproduction on offspring genetic load, mortality and fertility.", u'Dimension reduction methods are commonly applied to high-throughput biological datasets. However, the results can be hindered by confounding factors, either biologically or technically originated. In this study, we propose a Principal Component Analysis-based approach to Adjust for Confounding variation (AC-PCA). We show that AC-PCA can adjust for variations across individual donors present in a human brain exon array dataset. Our approach is able to recover the anatomical structure of neocortex regions, including the frontal-temporal and dorsal-ventral axes, and reveal temporal dynamics of the interregional variation. For gene selection purposes, we extend AC-PCA with sparsity constraints, and propose and implement an efficient algorithm. The top selected genes from this algorithm demonstrate frontal/temporal and dorsal/ventral expression gradients and strong functional conservation.', u'The World Health Organisation has declared the present epidemic of infection with the Zika virus to be a Public Health Emergency of International Concern. The virus appears to have spread from Thailand to French Polynesia in 2013, and has since infected over a million people in the countries of South and Central America. In most cases the infection is mild and transient, but the virus does appear to be strongly neurotropic and the presumptive cause of both birth defects in foetuses and Guillain-Barr&eacute syndrome in some adults. \n\nIn this paper the techniques and utilities developed in the study of mitochondrial DNA are applied to the Zika virus. As a result it is possible to show in a simple manner how a phylogenetic tree may be constructed and how the mutation rate of the virus can be measured. \n\nThe study shows the mutation rate to vary between 12 and 25 bases a year, in a viral genome of 10,272 bases. This rapid mutation rate will enable the geographic spread of the epidemic to be monitored easily and may also prove useful in assisting the identification of preventative measures that are working, and those which are not.', u'Intrinsically disordered proteins fail to adopt a stable three-dimensional structure under physiological conditions. It is now understood that many disordered proteins are not dysfunctional, but instead engage in numerous cellular processes, including signaling and regulation. Disorder characterization from amino acid sequence relies on computational disorder prediction algorithms. While numerous large-scale investigations of disorder have been performed using these algorithms, and have offered valuable insight regarding the prevalence of protein disorder in many organisms, critical proteome-based descriptive statistical guidelines that would enable the objective assessment of intrinsic disorder in a protein of interest remain to be established. Here we present a quantitative characterization of numerous disorder features using a rigorous non-parametric statistical approach, providing expected values and percentile cutoffs for each feature in ten eukaryotic proteomes. Our estimates utilize multiple ab initio disorder prediction algorithms grounded on physicochemical principles. Furthermore, we present novel threshold values, specific to both the prediction algorithms and the proteomes, defining the longest primary sequence length in which the significance of a continuous disordered region can be evaluated on the basis of length alone. The guidelines presented here are intended to improve the interpretation of disorder content and continuous disorder predictions from the proteomic point of view.', u'Given the complexity of host-microbiota symbioses, scientists and philosophers are asking questions at new biological levels of hierarchical organization - What is a holobiont and hologenome? When should this vocabulary be applied? Are these concepts a null hypothesis for host-microbe systems or limited to a certain spectrum of symbiotic interactions such as host-microbial coevolution? Critical discourse is necessary in this nascent area, but productive discourse requires that skeptics and proponents use the same lexicon. For instance, critiquing the hologenome concept is not synonymous with critiquing coevolution, and arguing that an entity is not a primary unit of selection dismisses that the hologenome concept has always embraced multi-level selection. Holobionts and hologenomes are incontrovertible, multipartite entities that result from ecological, evolutionary and genetic processes at varying levels. They are not restricted to one special process but constitute a wider vocabulary and framework for host biology in light of the microbiome.', u'Quorum sensing (QS) is a mechanism of communication used by bacteria to monitor cell density and coordinate cooperative behaviors. An emerging framework is that the adaptive significance of QS in regulation of production of costly extracellular metabolites (public goods) is to maintain the homeostasis of cooperation. We investigated the functionality of QS-dependent regulation of rhamnolipids, extracellular surface-active glycolipids promoting the social swarming motility behavior, in Burkholderia glumae and found that QS is superfluous under rich nutritional conditions. In contrast, decreasing nutrient concentrations to reduce the growth rate amplifies rhamnolipid biosynthesis gene expression, revealing a system where QS-dependent regulation is triggered by the growth rate of the population rather than by its cell density. Our results provide evidence that the adaptive significance of QS in regulation of public goods is to maintain an optimized demand-driven supply of target cooperative behavior, wherein efficiency can be traded off against survival.', u'The relatively narrow range of genetic polymorphism levels across species has been a major source of debate since the inception of molecular population genetics. Recently Corbett-Detig et al found evidence that linked selection strongly constrains levels of polymorphism in species with large census sizes. Here I reexamine this claim and find weak support for this conclusion. While linked selection is an important determinant of polymorphism levels along the genome in many species, we currently lack compelling evidence that it is a major determinant of polymorphism levels among obligately sexual species.', u"A small, juvenile rorqual live-stranded on Qeshm Island, Iran, in the northern Strait of Hormuz (Persian Gulf) in September 2007. Cause of stranding remains unknown but the whale (QE22.09.2007) showed no severe traumatic injuries nor was emaciated. Based on at least seven morphological features, considered diagnostic in combination, allowed a positive identification as Omura's whale Balaenoptera omurai. Features included diminutive body size (397 cm), a large number of ventral grooves (n=82) extending caudad of the umbilicus, a strongly falcate dorsal fin, asymmetric colouration of the head (especially lower jaws) reminiscent of fin whale, including three unilateral dark stripes, faint/incomplete lateral rostral ridges, record low number of short, broad baleen plates (204 in right jaw). The likelihood for the existence of a local B. omurai population in the eastern Persian Gulf or northern Arabian Sea seems higher than the wandering of a very young animal or mother/calf pair from any of the known distant distribution areas in the eastern Indian Ocean or SW Indian Ocean (Madagascar). This is the first record of B. omurai in the NW Indian Ocean.", u'Interpretive analysis of metagenomic data depends on an understanding of the underlying associations among microbes from metagenomic samples.Although several statistical tools have been developed for metagenomic association studies, they suffer from compositional bias or fail to take into account environmental factors that directly affect the composition of a given microbial community. In this paper, we propose metagenomic Lognormal-Dirichlet-Multinomial (mLDM), a hierarchical Bayesian model with sparsity constraints to bypass compositional bias and discover new associations among microbes and between microbes and environmental factors. The mLDM model can 1) infer both conditionally dependent associations among microbes and direct associations between microbes and environmental factors; 2) consider both compositional bias and variance of metagenomic data; and 3) estimate absolute abundance for microbes. Thus, conditionally dependent association can capture direct relationship underlying microbial pairs and remove the indirect connections induced from other common factors. Empirical studies show the effectiveness of the mLDM model, using both synthetic data and the TARA Oceans eukaryotic data by comparing it with several state-of-the-art methodologies. Finally, mLDM is applied to western English Channel data and finds some interesting associations.', u'Lipid profiles and body mass index of young students in Jordan\nDr.Balasim Rasheed Habeeb Alquraishi ,Eman Rababah\nAbstract\nObjective: Toanalyze the lipid profile in a population of young university students in relation with their BMI.\nMethods: This study assessed 96 students with age between 18 and 31 years old who were classified according to their sex and their body mass index (BMI). The fastingserum submitted to lipid profile analysis, including serum level of total cholesterol (TC) , High(HDL-c) , triglycerides (TG)were measured by using enzymatic methodandNon HDLD and a fraction of cholesterol of low (LDL-c) which calculated  mathematically besides of life habits and atherogenic data . \nResults:The mean BMI (Kg/cm2) in male (27.75 5.76) is higher than the mean BMI in female (23.17  2.78), P value (0.0001). The mean total concentration of cholesterol, LDL-c and Non HDL (mg/dl) in males (165.88 32.20, 85.00  39.94, 105.09  34.22) respectively is less than in females (194.27  52.04, 125.32  50.39, 139.14 51.35) correspondingly. The mean total concentration of HDL-c and TG (61.97  13.29, 94.80   35.51) correspondingly. Lipid indices, total cholesterol/HDL, LDL/HDL and Non HDL/HDL in male (2.91  1.02, 1.50  0.86, 1.87 0.99) respectively are less than those in female (3.73  1.24, 2.47  1.24, 2.75  1.25).\nConclusions: The obesity of young males (25.00%) is more prevalence than the obesity of young females (2.28%). The risk concentration of total cholesterol,LDL-c and Non HDLand the lipid indices (Total cholesterol/HDL,LDL/HDL and Non HDL/HDL) are higher in females than males and this indicate that the young females have  more risk to develop cardiac problems in older ages .\n\nKey words: Dyslipidemia, Triglycerides; Cholesterol, HDL, LDL', u'Although the repertoire of human lncRNAs has rapidly expanded, their biological function and regulation remain largely elusive. Here, we present AnnoLnc (http://annolnc.cbi.pku.edu.cn), an online portal for systematically annotating newly identified human lncRNAs. AnnoLnc offers a full spectrum of annotations covering genomic location, RNA secondary structure, expression, transcriptional regulation, miRNA interaction, protein interaction, genetic association and evolution, as well as an abstraction-based text summary and various intuitive figures to help biologists quickly grasp the essentials. In addition to an intuitive and mobile-friendly Web interactive design, AnnoLnc supports batch analysis and provides JSON-based Web Service APIs for programmatic analysis. To the best of our knowledge, AnnoLnc is the first web server to provide on-the-fly and systematic annotation for newly identified human lncRNAs. Some case studies have shown the power of AnnoLnc to inspire novel hypotheses.', u"The position of species in interaction networks can predict their extinction probability. However, the processes whereby these network roles emerge and persist, then decay during ecosystem development are unknown. Here we study networks of plant and arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal (AMF) communities along a 120,000 yr soil chronosequence, with two distinct phases: progressive (i.e. assembly, where plant richness and biomass increase) and retrogressive (i.e. disassembly, where plant richness and biomass decline with declining nutrients). We find that the order of interaction formation during progression mirrors that of interaction extinction during retrogression, and that interactions in sites moving forwards or backwards from the (12,000 yr) site of peak biomass were nested subsets of the interactions at that site. Network assembly and disassembly were symmetrical, self-reinforcing processes that together generated key attributes of network architecture. Plant species that had high AMF-partner overlap with others in the community (measured as 'closeness centrality') were best able to attract and retain new AMF partners, and AMF species with high partner overlap were better able to retain their interactions with plants. In contrast, interaction generalism ('node degree') per se was a poor predictor of partner attraction during assembly or retention during disassembly. These results could be used to predict extinction sequences based on community assembly or network roles, identify focal points for invasions, and suggest trajectories for ecosystem restoration.", u'The human genome encodes 45 kinesins that drive cell division, cell motility, intracellular trafficking, and ciliary function. Determining the cellular function of each kinesin would be greatly facilitated by specific small molecule inhibitors, but screens have yielded inhibitors that are specific to only a small number of kinesins, likely due to the high conservation of the kinesin motor domain across the superfamily. Here we present a chemical-genetic approach to engineer kinesin motors that retain microtubule-dependent motility in the absence of inhibitor yet can be efficiently inhibited by small, cell-permeable molecules. Using kinesin-1 as a prototype, we tested two independent strategies to design inhibitable motors. First, we inserted the six amino acid tetracysteine tag into surface loops of the motor domain such that binding of biarsenic dyes allosterically inhibits processive motility. Second, we fused DmrB dimerization domains to the motor heads such that addition of B/B homodimerizer cross-links the two motor domains and inhibits motor stepping. We show, using cellular assays that the engineered kinesin-1 motors are able to transport artificial and natural kinesin-1 cargoes, but are efficiently inhibited by the addition of the relevant small molecule. Single-molecule imaging in vitro revealed that inhibitor addition reduces the number of processively moving motors on the microtubule, with minor effects on motor run length and velocity. It is likely that these inhibition strategies can be successfully applied to other members of the kinesin superfamily due to the high conservation of the kinesin motor domain. The described engineered motors will be of great utility to dynamically and specifically study kinesin function in cells and animals.', u'We present a compartment model that explains melanoma cell response and resistance to mono and combination therapies. Model parameters were estimated by utilizing an optimization algorithm to identify parameters that minimized the difference between predicted cell populations and experimentally measured cell numbers. The model was then validated with in vitro experimental data. Our simulations show that although a specific timing of the combination therapy is effective in controlling tumor cell populations over an extended period of time, the treatment eventually fails. We subsequently predict a more optimal combination therapy that incorporates an additional drug at the right moment.', u'Since being introduced into Brazil in 2014, Zika virus (ZIKV) has spread explosively across Central and South America.  Although the symptoms of ZIKV are generally mild, recent evidence suggests a relationship between prenatal exposure to ZIKV and microcephaly.  This has led to widespread panic, including travel alerts and warnings to avoid pregnancy.  Because ZIKV is an emerging disease, response efforts are complicated by limited understanding of disease dynamics.  To this end, we develop a novel state- and class-structured compartment model for ZIKV.  Our model shows that the risk of prenatal ZIKV exposure should decrease dramatically following the initial wave of disease, reaching almost undetectable levels in endemic systems. Our model also suggests that, depending on ZIVK transmission levels in the Americas, efforts to reduce ZIKV prenatal exposures through mosquito management and avoidance may have minimal benefit, and may even result in increased risk of microcephaly in later years of an outbreak.', u"Herbivore induced defences are robust, evolve rapidly and activated in plants when specific elicitors, frequently found in the herbivores' oral secretions (OS) are introduced into wounds during attack. How these complex induced defences evolve remains unclear. Here, we show that herbivore-induced transcriptomic responses in a wild tobacco, Nicotiana attenuata, display an evolutionary hourglass: the pattern that characterises the transcriptomic evolution of embryogenesis in animals, plants, and fungi. While relatively young and rapidly evolving genes involved in signal perception and processing to regulate defence metabolite biosynthesis are recruited both early (1 h) and late (9-21 h) in the defence elicitation process, a group of highly conserved and older genes involved in transcriptomic regulation are activated in the middle stage (5 h). The appearance of the evolutionary hourglass architecture in both developmental and defence elicitation processes may reflect the importance of robustness and evolvability in the signalling of these important biological processes.", u'Methionyl tRNA synthetase is single copy informational gene in Salmonella typhimurium. Informational genes are more conserved than operational genes. In this study we had analyzed HGT events within MetG sequences of different bacterial genera. A species tree based on 16srRNA sequences of the same genus was drawn evaluated against the generally accepted species tree of the bacteria. MetG phylogenetic tree was evaluated against the 16srRNAS tree and HGT event identified. Similarly phyla trees were made and HGT event identified. 24 HGT events were identified between genus and 11 within phyla. MetG is a considered as conserved gene finding so many HGT event in this gene indicate that horizontal gene transfer is very common in this gene. Manual tree making for phyla could help to understand phylogenetic relationships between very large trees.', u'In early 2015, a ZIKA Virus (ZIKV) infection outbreak was recognized in northeast Brazil, where concerns over its possible links with infant microcephaly have been discussed. Providing a definitive link between ZIKV infection and birth defects is still a big challenge. MicroRNAs (miRNAs), are small noncoding RNAs that regulating post-transcriptional gene expression by translational repression, and play important roles in viral pathogenesis and brain development. The potential for flavivirus-mediated miRNA signaling dysfunction in brain-tissue develop provides a compelling mechanism underlying perceived linked between ZIKV and microcephaly. Here, we provide novel evidences toward to understand the mechanism in which miRNAs can be linked to the congenital ZIKA syndrome symptoms. Moreover, following World Health Organization (WHO) recommendations, we have assembled a database to help target mechanistic investigations of this possible relationship between ZIKV symptoms and miRNA mediated human gene expression, helping to foster potential targets for therapy.', u'Long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (LCPUFA) are bioactive components of membrane phospholipids and serve as substrates for signaling molecules. LCPUFA can be obtained directly from animal foods or synthesized endogenously from 18 carbon precursors via the FADS2 coded enzyme. Vegans rely almost exclusively on endogenous synthesis to generate LCPUFA and we hypothesized that an adaptive genetic polymorphism would confer advantage. The rs66698963 polymorphism, a 22 bp insertion-deletion within FADS2, is associated with basal FADS1 expression, and coordinated induction of FADS1 and FADS2 in vitro. Here we determined rs66698963 genotype frequencies from 234 individuals of a primarily vegetarian Indian population and 311 individuals from the U.S.  A much higher I/I genotype frequency was found in Indians (68%) than in the U.S. (18%). Analysis using 1000 Genomes Project data confirmed our observation, revealing a global I/I genotype of 70% in South Asians, 53% in Africans, 29% in East Asians, and 17% in Europeans. Tests based on population divergence, site frequency spectrum and long-range haplotype consistently point to positive selection encompassing rs66698963 in South Asian, African and some East Asian populations. Basal plasma phospholipid arachidonic acid status was 8% greater in I/I compared to D/D individuals. The biochemical pathway product-precursor difference, arachidonic acid minus linoleic acid, was 31% and 13% greater for I/I and I/D compared to D/D, respectively.  Our study is consistent with previous in vitro data suggesting that the insertion allele enhances n-6 LCPUFA synthesis and may confer an adaptive advantage in South Asians because of the traditional plant-based diet practice.', u'The extreme genetic heterogeneity of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) represents a major challenge. Recent advances in genetic screening and systems biology approaches have extended our knowledge of the genetic etiology of ASD. In this review, we discuss the paradigm shift from a single gene causation model to pathway perturbation model as a guide to better understand the pathophysiology of ASD. We discuss recent genetic findings obtained through next-generation sequencing (NGS) and examine various integrative analyses using systems biology and complex networks approaches that identify convergent patterns of genetic elements associated with ASD. This review provides a summary of the genetic findings of family-based genome screening studies.', u"Accurate maps of promoters and enhancers are required for understanding transcriptional regulation. Promoters and enhancers are usually mapped by integration of chromatin assays charting histone modifications, DNA accessibility, and transcription factor binding. However, current algorithms are limited by unrealistic data distribution assumptions. Here we propose GenoSTAN (Genomic STate ANnotation), a hidden Markov model overcoming these limitations. We map promoters and enhancers for 127 cell types and tissues from the ENCODE and Roadmap Epigenomics projects, today's largest compendium of chromatin assays. Extensive benchmarks demonstrate that GenoSTAN consistently identifies promoters and enhancers with significantly higher accuracy than previous methods. Moreover, GenoSTAN-derived promoters and enhancers showed significantly higher enrichment of complex trait-associated genetic variants than current annotations. Altogether, GenoSTAN provides an easy-to-use tool to define promoters and enhancers in any system, and our annotation of human transcriptional cis-regulatory elements constitutes a rich resource for future research in biology and medicine.", u'The Bene Israel Jewish community from West India is a unique population whose history before the 18th century remains largely unknown. Bene Israel members consider themselves as descendants of Jews, yet the identity of Jewish ancestors and their arrival time to India are unknown, with speculations on arrival time varying between the 8th century BCE and the 6th century CE. Here, we characterize the genetic history of Bene Israel by collecting and genotyping 18 Bene Israel individuals. Combining with 486 individuals from 41 other Jewish, Indian and Pakistani populations, and additional individuals from worldwide populations, we conducted comprehensive genome-wide analyses based on FST, principal component analysis, ADMIXTURE, identity-by-descent sharing, admixture linkage disequilibrium decay, haplotype sharing and allele sharing autocorrelation decay, as well as contrasted patterns between the X chromosome and the autosomes. The genetics of Bene Israel individuals resemble local Indian populations, while at the same time constituting a clearly separated and unique population in India. They are unique among Indian and Pakistani populations we analyzed in sharing considerable genetic ancestry with other Jewish populations. Putting together the results from all analyses point to Bene Israel being an admixed population with both Jewish and Indian ancestry, with the genetic contribution of each of these ancestral populations being substantial. The admixture took place in the last millennium, about 19-33 generations ago. It involved Middle-Eastern Jews and was sex-biased, with more male Jewish and local female contribution. It was followed by a population bottleneck and high endogamy, which can lead to increased prevalence of recessive diseases in this population. This study provides an example of how genetic analysis advances our knowledge of human history in cases where other disciplines lack the relevant data to do so.', u'Organophosphate poisoning represents a major and growing global health problem especially in the developing countries and cardiotoxicity is the major cause of death. Thus, a compelling need to develop novel low cost efficacious agents to manage this condition.\nObjective\nTo evaluate the methanol extract of Withania somnifera as a pre-treatment agent in the prevention of the cardiotoxic effects of diazinon in Sprague Dawley rats \nMaterials and Methods \nTwenty one (21) adult rats were randomized to receive 200 mg/kg methanol extract of Withania somnifera (test group), vehicle (negative control) or 200 [mu]g/kg Neostigmine as pre-treatment 30 minutes prior to the oral administration of 200 mg/kg Diazinon. Baseline and post-treatment electrocardiograms (ECGs) were recorded by the Powerlab data acquisition system (ML865 AD instruments, Sydney, Australia). The experimental data were expressed as median [plusmn] the inter-quartile range and analysed using the Kruskal [minus] Wallis non[minus]parametric test and followed by Mann[minus]Whitney U post hoc test in cases of significance, which was set at p < 0.05. Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS) version 17 software was used for analysis.\nResults\nPre-treatment with the methanol extract of W. somnifera had significant effect on the following diazinon-induced electrocardiographic changes;  RR interval (0.026 (0.007 [minus] 0.065) vs. 0.035 (0.019 [minus] 0.050) vs. 0.090 (0.071 [minus] 0.01), p = 0.031),heart rate ([minus]54.235 (115.317 [minus] ([minus]19.857)) vs. [minus]96.136 ([minus]96.472 [minus] ([minus]43.879)) vs. [minus]174.361 ([minus]189.775 [minus] ([minus]129.469)), p = 0.014), PR interval (0.006 (0.004 [minus] 0.008) vs. 0.003 (0.001 [minus] 0.004) vs. 0.009  (0.006 [minus] 0.015), p = 0.019), QRS interval (0.005 (0.001 [minus] 0.008) vs. [minus]0.002 ([minus]0.005 [minus] 0.001) vs. 0.007 (0.003 [minus] 0.011), p = 0.023) and ST height ([minus]34.830 ([minus]63.578 [minus] 4.215) vs. [minus]22.330 ([minus]38.383[minus]([minus]4.159)) vs. [minus]73.156 ([minus]214.022[minus] ([minus]52.449)), p = 0.023). It however had  no significant effect on the QTc interval changes  ([minus]0.005 ([minus]0.011 [minus] 0.003) vs. [minus]0.005 ([minus]0.015 [minus] 0.065) vs. [minus]0.021 ([minus]0.060[minus] ([minus]0.006)), p = 0.174).\nConclusion\nThe efficacy of pre-treatment with the methanol extract of Withania somnifera was comparable to that of pre-treatment with Neostigmine a commonly used carbamate drug. Thus, it is a potentially viable low cost treatment option for organophosphate poisoning in resource-limited settings.', u'Congenital cataract is a rare but severe paediatric visual impediment, often caused by mutations in one of several crystallin genes that produce the bulk of structural proteins in lens. Here we describe a pedigree with autosomal dominant isolated congenital cataract and linkage to the crystallin gene cluster on chromosome 22. No rare single nucleotide variants or short indels were identified by whole exome sequencing, yet copy number variant analysis revealed a duplication spanning both CRYBB1 and CRYBA4. While the CRYBA4 duplication was complete, the CRYBB1 duplication was not, with one or both products predicted to create a gain of function allele. This association suggests a new genetic mechanism for the development of isolated congenital cataract.', u'Malaria is a disease contracted by over 200 million people each year, mostly in developing countries. The primary causative agent, Plasmodium falciparum (P. falciparum) has shown increased resistance to existing drugs, hence new treatments are needed quickly. To this end we performed a high-throughput systems-level analysis, mapping existing FDA drugs with the potential for repurposing against targets from the P. falciparum structural proteome. The resulting P. falciparum drugome (P.falciparum-drugome) was used to prioritize potential new anti-malaria candidate targets and highlight some novel FDA approved drugs that have apparent anti-malaria effects for possible use as multi-target therapeutics.', u'Conventional methods for the detection of bacterial infection such as DNA or immunoassays are either expensive, time consuming, or not definitive; thus may not provide all the information sought by the medical professionals. In particular, it is difficult to obtain information about viability or drug effectiveness, which are crucial to formulate a treatment.  Bacterial culture test is the gold standard because it is inexpensive and does not require extensive sample preparation, and most importantly, provides all the necessary information sought by healthcare professionals, such as bacterial presence, viability and drug effectiveness. These conventional culture methods, however, have a long turnaround time: anywhere between 1 day to 4 weeks. Here, we solve this problem by monitoring the growth of bacteria in thousands of nanowells simultaneously to identify its presence in the sample and its viability, faster. The segmentation of a sample with low bacterial concentration into thousands of nanoliter wells digitizes the samples and increases the effective concentration in those wells that contain bacteria.  We monitor the metabolism of aerobic bacteria by using an oxygen sensitive fluorophore, ruthenium tris (2,2-diprydl) dichloride hexahydrate (RTDP) that allows us to monitor the dissolved oxygen concentration in the nanowells. Using E.Coli K12 as a model pathogen, we demonstrate that the detection time of E.coli can be as fast as 35-60 minutes with sample concentrations varying from 104(62 minutes for detection), 106 (42 minutes) and 108 cells/mL (38 minutes).  More importantly, we also demonstrate that reducing the well size can reduce the time of detection. Finally we show that drug effectiveness information can be obtained in this format by loading the wells with the drug and monitoring the metabolism of the bacteria. The method that we have developed is low cost, simple, requires minimal sample preparation and can potentially be used with a wide variety of samples in resource poor setting to detect bacterial infections such as Tuberculosis.', u'Motivation: Public archives contain thousands of trillions of bases of valuable sequencing data. More than 40% of the Sequence Read Archive is human data protected by provisions such as dbGaP. To analyze dbGaP-protected data, researchers must typically work with IT administrators and signing officials to ensure all levels of security are implemented at their institution. This is a major obstacle, impeding reproducibility and reducing the utility of archived data. Results: We present a protocol and software tool for analyzing protected data in a commercial cloud. The protocol, Rail-dbGaP, is applicable to any tool running on Amazon Web Services Elastic MapReduce. The tool, Rail-RNA v0.2, is a spliced aligner for RNA-seq data, which we demonstrate by running on 9,662 samples from the dbGaP-protected GTEx consortium dataset. The Rail-dbGaP protocol makes explicit for the first time the steps an investigator must take to develop Elastic MapReduce pipelines that analyze dbGaP-protected data in a manner compliant with NIH guidelines. Rail-RNA automates implementation of the protocol, making it easy for typical biomedical investigators to study protected RNA-seq data, regardless of their local IT resources or expertise. Availability: Rail-RNA is available from http://rail.bio. Technical details on the Rail-dbGaP protocol as well as an implementation walkthrough are available at https://github.com/nellore/rail-dbgap. Detailed instructions on running Rail-RNA on dbGaP-protected data using Amazon Web Services are available at http://docs.rail.bio/dbgap/.', u'Dipsadidae is the most diversified family of snakes, composed of species showing an impressive variety of color patterns. Some species are cryptic whereas others have contrasting patterns comprised by bright colors alternated with darker shades, including particular combinations of  vivid colors characteristic of coral snakes (Elapidae). Species with such patterns are thought to be mimics of coral snakes based on their color pattern similarity, predator avoidance of such patterns in field experiments, and the geographical concordance between models and mimics. Here we test whether color patterns associated with coral snake mimicry and contrasting color patterns in general influenced the diversification dynamics of the group. We compile the largest database of color patterns among reptiles to date, with color descriptions for the majority (594 species) of dipsadids. We used trait-dependent diversification models along with extensive simulations to deal with the recently described statistical bias associated with such methods. Despite the apparent survival advantage associated with coral snake mimicry, we show that there is no detectable influence of color types in the dynamics of diversification in Dipsadidae. We discuss insights into the function of color patterns and argue that non-mimic contrasting patterns might serve as pre-adaptations to mimicry of coral snakes.', u'Bayesian methods for large-scale multiple regression provide attractive approaches to the analysis of genome-wide association studies (GWAS). For example, they can estimate heritability of complex traits, allowing for both polygenic and sparse models; and by incorporating external genomic data into the priors they can increase power and yield new biological insights. However, these methods require access to individual genotypes and phenotypes, which are often not easily available. Here we provide a framework for performing these analyses without individual-level data. Specifically, we introduce a "Regression with Summary Statistics" (RSS) likelihood, which relates the multiple regression coefficients to univariate regression results that are often easily available. The RSS likelihood requires estimates of correlations among covariates (SNPs), which also can be obtained from public databases. We perform Bayesian multiple regression analysis by combining the RSS likelihood with previously-proposed prior distributions, sampling posteriors by Markov chain Monte Carlo. In a wide range of simulations RSS performs similarly to analyses using the individual data, both for estimating heritability and detecting associations. We apply RSS to a GWAS of human height that contains 253,288 individuals typed at 1.06 million SNPs, for which analyses of individual-level data are practically impossible. Estimates of heritability (52%) are consistent with, but more precise, than previous results using subsets of these data. We also identify many previously-unreported loci that show evidence for association with height in our analyses. Software implementing RSS is available at https://github.com/stephenslab/rss.', u'Current approaches to measuring the cyclic peptide oxytocin in plasma/serum are associated with poor selectivity and/or inadequate sensitivity. We here describe a high performance nano liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry platform for measuring OT in human plasma/serum. The platform is extremely robust, allowing laborious sample clean-up steps to be omitted. OT binds strongly to plasma proteins, but a reduction/alkylation procedure breaks this bond, allowing ample detection of total OT. The method showed excellent quantitation properties, and was used to determine total OT levels to 0.5-1.2 ng/mL (evaluated with human plasma and cord serum). The method is compatible with accessible mass spectrometry instrumentation, finally allowing selective and easily comparable oxytocin measurements.', u'In small populations, genetic linkage between a polymorphic neutral locus and loci subject to selection, either against partially recessive mutations or in favor of heterozygotes, may result in an apparent selective advantage to heterozygotes at the neutral locus (associative overdominance), and a retardation of the rate of loss of variability by genetic drift at this locus. In large populations, selection against deleterious mutations has previously been shown to reduce variability at linked neutral loci (background selection). We describe analytical, numerical and simulation studies that shed light on the conditions under which retardation versus acceleration of loss of variability occurs at a neutral locus linked to a locus under selection. We consider a finite, randomly mating population initiated from an infinite population in equilibrium at a locus under selection, with no linkage disequilibrium. With mutation and selection, retardation only occurs when S, the product of twice the effective population size and the selection coefficient, is of order one. With S >> 1, background selection always causes an acceleration of loss of variability. Apparent heterozygote advantage at the neutral locus is, however, always observed when mutations are partially recessive, even if there is an accelerated rate of loss of variability. With heterozygote advantage at the selected locus, there is nearly always a retardation of loss of variability. The results shed light on experiments on the loss of variability at marker loci in laboratory populations, and on the results of computer simulations of the effects of multiple selected loci on neutral variability.', u'For the last few decades modern biology has focused on quantifying, understanding and mapping the genetic characteristics of cells. This genotype-driven perspective has led to significant advances in our understanding and treatment of diseases such as cancer e.g. the discovery of driver mutations and the development of molecularly-targeted therapeutics.  However, this perspective has largely ignored the functional outcome of genetic changes: the cellular phenotype. In part, this is simply because phenotypes are neither easy to define or measure as they critically depend on both genotype and context. Heterogeneity at the gene scale has been known for sometime, and there has been significant effort invested in trying to find patterns within it,  but much less is understood about how this heterogeneity manifests itself in phenotypic change, i.e. the genotype-phenotype map (GP-map). This mapping is not one-to-one but many-to-many and is fundamentally the junction at which both genes and environment meet to produce phenotypes. Many genotypes produce similar phenotypes, and multiple phenotypes can emerge from a single genotype. To further complicate matters, genetically identical cells in uniform environments still exhibit phenotypic heterogeneity. Therefore a central open question in biology today is how can we connect the abundance of genomic data with cell phenotypic behaviour, this is especially pertinent to the issue of treatment resistance as many therapies act on cellular phenotypes.\n\nOur focus here is to tackle the GP-map question through the use of the simplest functional mapping we can define that also captures phenotypic heterogeneity: a molecular switch.  Molecular switches are ubiquitous in biology, observed in many organisms and naturally map molecular components to decisions (i.e. phenotypes).  Often stochastic in nature, such switches can be the difference between life or death in environments that fluctuate unpredictably, since they will ensure that at least some offspring are adapted to future environments.  For convenience we use Chemical Reaction Networks (CRNs) to define the map of gene products to phenotypes, allowing us to investigate the impact of distinct mappings (CRNs) and perturbations to them. We observe that key biological properties naturally emerge, including both robustness and persistence.  Robustness may explain why such bet hedging strategies are common in biology, and not readily destroyed through mutation. Whereas persistence may explain the apparent paradox of bet-hedging - why does phenotypic hedging exist in environments beneficial to only one of the phenotypes, when selection necessarily acts against it? The structure of the molecular switch, itself subject to selection, can slow the loss of hedging to ensure a survival mechanism even against environmental catastrophes which are very rare. Critically, these properties when taken together have profound and significant implications for the emergence of treatment resistance, since the timescale of extinction depends heavily on the underlying GP-map.', u'While chemoresistance in primary tumors is well-studied, much less is known about the influence of systemic chemotherapy on the development of drug resistance at metastatic sites. In this work, we use a hybrid spatial model of tumor response to a DNA damaging drug to study how the development of chemoresistance in micrometastases depends on the drug dosing schedule. We separately consider cell populations that harbor pre-existing resistance to the drug, and those that acquire resistance during the course of treatment. For each of these independent scenarios, we consider one hypothetical cell line that is responsive to metronomic chemotherapy, and another that with high probability cannot be eradicated by a metronomic protocol. Motivated by experimental work on ovarian cancer xenografts, we consider all possible combinations of a one week treatment protocol, repeated for three weeks, and constrained by the total weekly drug dose. Simulations reveal a small number of fractionated-dose protocols that are at least as effective as metronomic therapy in eradicating micrometastases with acquired resistance (weak or strong), while also being at least as effective on those that harbor weakly pre-existing resistant cells. Given the responsiveness of very different theoretical cell lines to these few fractionated-dose protocols, these may represent more effective ways to schedule chemotherapy with the goal of limiting metastatic tumor progression.', u'The Ensembl Variant Effect Predictor (VEP) is a powerful toolset for the analysis, annotation and prioritization of genomic variants, including in non-coding regions.\n\nThe VEP accurately predicts the effects of sequence variants on transcripts, protein products, regulatory regions and binding motifs by leveraging the high quality, broad scope, and integrated nature of the Ensembl databases. In addition, it enables comparison with a large collection of existing publicly available variation data within Ensembl to provide insights into population and ancestral genetics, phenotypes and disease.\n\nThe VEP is open source and free to use. It is available via a simple web interface (http://www.ensembl.org/vep), a powerful downloadable package, and both Ensembl\u2019s Perl and REST application program interface (API) services.', u'The Hsp90 molecular chaperone and its Cdc37 co-chaperone help stabilize and activate over half of the human kinome. However, neither the mechanism by which these chaperones assist their client kinases nor why some kinases are addicted to Hsp90 while closely related family members are independent is known. Missing has been any structural understanding of these interactions, with no full-length structures of human Hsp90, Cdc37 or either of these proteins with a kinase. Here we report a 3.9A cryoEM structure of the Hsp90:Cdc37:Cdk4 kinase complex. Cdk4 is in a novel conformation, with its two lobes completely separated. Cdc37 mimics part of the kinase N-lobe, stabilizing an open kinase conformation by wedging itself between the two lobes. Finally, Hsp90 clamps around the unfolded kinase \u03b25 strand and interacts with exposed N- and C-lobe interfaces, safely trapping the kinase in an unfolded state. Based on this novel structure and extensive previous data, we propose unifying conceptual and mechanistic models of chaperone-kinase interactions.', u'Current approaches to single-cell transcriptomic analysis are computationally intensive and require assay-specific modeling which limit their scope and generality. We propose a novel method that departs from standard analysis pipelines, comparing and clustering cells based not on their transcript or gene quantifications but on their transcript-compatibility read counts. In re-analysis of two landmark yet disparate single-cell RNA-Seq datasets, we show that our method is up to two orders of magnitude faster than previous approaches, provides accurate and in some cases improved results, and is directly applicable to data from a wide variety of assays.', u'The advent of accessible ancient DNA technology now allows the direct ascertainment of allele frequencies in ancestral populations, thereby enabling the use of allele frequency time series to detect and estimate natural selection. Such direct observations of allele frequency dynamics are expected to be more powerful than inferences made using patterns of linked neutral variation obtained from modern individuals. We developed a Bayesian method to make use of allele frequency time series data and infer the parameters of general diploid selection, along with allele age, in non-equilibrium populations. We introduce a novel path augmentation approach, in which we use Markov chain Monte Carlo to integrate over the space of allele frequency trajectories consistent with the observed data. Using simulations, we show that this approach has good power to estimate selection coefficients and allele age. Moreover, when applying our approach to data on horse coat color, we find that ignoring a relevant demographic history can significantly bias the results of inference. Our approach is made available in a C++ software package.', u"Ever since the accidental discovery of Wingless [Sharma R.P., Drosophila information service, 1973, 50, p 134], research in the field of Wnt signaling pathway has taken significant strides in wet lab experiments and various cancer clinical trials augmented by recent developments in advanced computational modeling of the pathway. Information rich gene expression profiles reveal various aspects of the signaling pathway at work and help in studying different issues simultaneously. Hitherto, not many computational studies exist which incorporate the simultaneous study of these issues. This manuscript is an endeavour to (1) explore the strength of contributing factors in the signaling pathway, (2) analyze the existing causal relations among the inter/extracellular factors effecting the pathway based on prior biological knowledge and (3) investigate the deviations in fold changes in the recently found prevalence of psychophysical laws working in the pathway. To achieve this goal, local and global sensitivity analysis is conducted on the (non)linear responses between the factors obtained from static and time series expression profiles using the density (Hilbert-Schmidt Information Criterion) and variance (Sobol) based sensitivity indices. The results show the superiority of the density based indices in comparison to the use of variance based indices mainly due to the former's employment of distance measures using the kernel trick via Reproducing kernel Hilbert space (RKHS) that capture nonlinear relations among various intra/extracellular factors of the pathway in a higher dimensional space. In time series data, using these indices it is now possible to observe where in time, which factors get influenced & contribute to the pathway, as changes in concentration of the other factors are made. This synergy of prior biological knowledge, sensitivity analysis and representations in higher dimensional spaces can facilitate in time based administration of target therapeutic drugs and reveal hidden biological information within colorectal cancer samples. Code has been made available at Google drive on https://drive.google.com/folderview?id=0B7Kkv8wlhPU-Q2NBZGt1ZERrSVE&usp=sharing", u'Sub-cellular localisation of proteins is an essential post-translational regulatory mechanism that can be assayed using high-throughput mass spectrometry (MS). These MS-based spatial proteomics experiments enable to pinpoint the sub-cellular distribution of thousands of proteins in a specific system under controlled conditions. Recent advances in high-throughput MS methods have yielded a plethora of experimental spatial proteomics data for the cell biology community. Yet, there are many third-party data sources, such as immunofluorescence microscopy or protein annotations and sequences, which represent a rich and vast source of complementary information. We present a unique transfer learning classification framework that utilises a nearest neighbour or support vector machine system, to integrate heterogeneous data sources to considerably improve on the quantity and quality of sub-cellular protein assignment. We demonstrate the utility of our algorithms through evaluation of five experimental datasets, from four different species in conjunction with four different auxiliary data sources to classify proteins to tens of sub-cellular compartments with high generalisation accuracy.  We further apply the method to a experiment on pluripotent mouse embryonic stem cells to classify a set of previously unknown proteins, and validate our findings against a recent high resolution map of the mouse stem cell proteome. The methodology is distributed as part of the open-source Bioconductor pRoloc suite for spatial proteomics data analysis.', u'Zika virus (ZIKV) is a mosquito-borne pathogen which has recently spread beyond Africa and into Pacific and South American regions. Despite first being detected in 1947, very little information is known about the virus and its spread has been associated with increases in Guillain-Barre syndrome and microcephaly. There are currently no known vaccines or antivirals against ZIKV infection. Progress in assessing interventions will require the development of animal models to test efficacies; however, there are only limited reports on in vivo studies. The only susceptible murine models have involved intracerebral inoculations or juvenile animals, which do not replicate natural infection. Our report has studied the effect of ZIKV infection in type-I interferon receptor deficient (A129) mice and the parent strain (129Sv/Ev) after subcutaneous challenge in the lower leg to mimic a mosquito bite. A129 mice developed severe symptoms with viral RNA being detected widespread in the blood, brain, spleen, liver and ovaries. Histological changes were also striking in these animals. 129Sv/Ev mice developed no clinical symptoms or histological changes, despite viral RNA being detectable in the blood, spleen and ovaries, albeit at lower levels to those seen in A129 mice. Our results identify A129 mice as being highly susceptible to ZIKV and thus a suitable small animal model for the testing of vaccines and antivirals which are urgently required.', u"Resource competition, and primarily competition for ribosomes, can lead to unexpected behavior of genetic circuits and has recently gained renewed attention with both experimental and theoretical studies. Current models studying the effects of resource competition assume a constant production of ribosomes and these models describe the experimental results well.  However, ribosomes are also autocatalytic since they are partially made of protein and autocatalysis has been shown to have detrimental effects on a system's stability and robustness. Additionally, there are known feedback regulations on ribosome synthesis such as inhibition of rRNA synthesis via ppGpp. Here, we develop two-state models of ribosome and protein synthesis incorporating autocatalysis and feedback to investigate conditions under which these regulatory actions have a significant effect in situations of increased ribosome demand. Our modeling results indicate that for sufficiently low demand, defined by the mRNA level of synthetic genes, autocatalysis has little or no effect. However, beyond a certain demand level, the system goes through a transcritical bifurcation at which the only non-negative steady state is at zero ribosome concentration.  The presence of negative feedback, in turn, can shift this point to higher demand values, thus restoring the qualitative behavior observed in a model with a constant ribosome production at low demand. However, autocatalysis affects the dynamics of the system and can lead to an overshoot in the temporal response of the synthetic genes to changes in induction level. Our results show that ribosome autocatalysis has a significant effect on the system robustness to increases in ribosome demand, however the existing negative feedback on ribosome production compensates for the effects of the necessary autocatalytic loop and restores the behavior seen in the system with constant ribosome production. These findings explain why previous models with constant ribosome production reproduce the steady state behavior well, however incorporating autocatalysis and feedback is needed to capture the transient behavior.", u"Molecular sequences in public databases are mostly annotated by the submitting authors \nwithout further validation. This procedure can generate erroneous taxonomic sequence labels. \nMislabeled sequences are hard to identify, and they can induce downstream errors because new sequences are typically annotated using existing ones. \nFurthermore, taxonomic mislabelings in reference sequence databases can bias metagenetic studies which rely on the taxonomy. \nDespite significant efforts to improve the quality of taxonomic annotations, \nthe curation rate is low because of the labour-intensive manual curation process.\n\nHere, we present SATIVA, a phylogeny-aware method to automatically identify taxonomically mislabeled sequences\n('mislabels') using statistical models of evolution. We use the Evolutionary Placement Algorithm (EPA) to detect\nand score sequences whose taxonomic annotation is not supported by the underlying phylogenetic signal, and\nautomatically propose a corrected taxonomic classification for those. Using simulated data, we\nshow that our method attains high accuracy for identification (96.9% sensitivity / 91.7% precision) as well as\ncorrection (94.9% sensitivity / 89.9% precision) of mislabels. Furthermore, an analysis of four widely used\nmicrobial 16S reference databases (Greengenes, LTP, RDP and SILVA) indicates that they currently contain between 0.2%\nand 2.5% mislabels.\nFinally, we use SATIVA to perform an in-depth evaluation of alternative taxonomies for Cyanobacteria.\n\nSATIVA is freely available at https://github.com/amkozlov/sativa.", u'The role of pathogens, including oomycetes, in long-term ecosystem development has remained largely unknown, despite hypotheses that pathogens drive primary succession, determine mature ecosystem plant diversity, or dominate in retrogressive, nutrient-limited ecosystems. Using DNA sequencing from roots, we investigated the frequency and host relationships of oomycete communities along a 120 000 year glacial chronosequence. Oomycetes were frequent in early successional sites (5 - 70 yrs), occurring in 38 - 65% of plant roots, but rare (average 3%) in all older ecosystems (280 yrs and older). Oomycetes were highly host specific, and more frequent on plant species that declined most strongly in abundance between ecosystem ages. In contrast, oomycetes were not correlated with plant abundance or plant root traits associated with retrogression. The results support the importance of root pathogens in early succession, but not thereafter, suggesting root pathogen-driven dynamics may be important in driving succession but not long-term diversity maintenance.', u'As sequencing costs associated with fast advancing Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) technologies continue to decrease, variant discovery is becoming a more affordable and popular analysis method among research laboratories. Following variant calling and annotation, accurate variant filtering is a crucial step to extract meaningful biological information from sequencing data and to investigate disease etiology. However, the standard variant call file format (VCF) used to store this valuable information is not easy to handle without bioinformatics skills, thus preventing many investigators from directly analysing their data. Here, we present BrowseVCF, an easy-to-use stand-alone software that enables researchers to browse, query and filter millions of variants in a few seconds. Key features include the possibility to store intermediate search results, to query user-defined gene lists, to group samples for family or tumour/normal studies, to download a report of the filters applied, and to export the filtered variants in spreadsheet format. Additionally, BrowseVCF is suitable for any DNA variant analysis (exome, whole-genome and targeted sequencing), can be used also for non-diploid genomes, and is able to discriminate between Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs), Insertions/Deletions (InDels), and Multiple Nucleotide Polymorphisms (MNPs). Owing to its portable implementation, BrowseVCF can be used either on personal computers or as part of automated analysis pipelines. The software can be initialised with a few clicks on any operating system without any special administrative or installation permissions. It is actively developed and maintained, and freely available for download from https://github.com/BSGOxford/BrowseVCF/releases/latest.', u'We explored genome-wide patterns of RT content surrounding lineage-specific gene family expansions in the human and mouse genomes. Our results suggest that the size of a gene family is an important predictor of the RT distribution in close proximity to the family members. The distribution differs considerably between the three most common RT classes (LINEs, LTRs and SINEs). LINEs and LTRs tend to be more abundant around genes of multi-copy gene families, whereas SINEs tend to be depleted around such genes. Detailed analysis of the distribution and diversity of LINEs and LTRs with respect to gene family size suggests that each has a distinct involvement in gene family expansion. LTRs are associated with open chromatin sites surrounding the gene families, supporting their involvement in gene regulation, whereas LINEs may play a structural role, promoting gene duplication. This suggests that gene family expansions, especially in the mouse genome, might undergo two phases, the first is characterized by elevated deposition of LTRs and their utilization in reshaping gene regulatory networks. The second phase is characterized by rapid gene family expansion due to continuous accumulation of LINEs and it appears that, in some instances at least, this could become a runaway process. We provide an example in which this has happened and we present a simulation supporting the possibility of the runaway process. Our observations also suggest that specific differences exist in this gene family expansion process between human and mouse genomes.', u'We inferred an environmental gene regulatory influence network (EGRIN) of the response of tropical Asian rice (Oryza sativa) to high temperatures, water deficit and agricultural environments. This network integrates transcriptome data (RNA-seq) and chromatin accessibility measurements (ATAC-seq) from five rice cultivars that were grown in controlled experiments and in agricultural fields. We identified open chromatin regions covering ~2% of the genome. These regions were highly overrepresented proximal to the transcriptional start sites of genes and were used to define the promoters for all genes. We used the occurrences of known cis-regulatory motifs in the promoters to generate a network prior comprising 77,071 interactions. We then estimated the regulatory activity of each TF (TFA;143 TFs) based on the expression of its target genes in the network prior across 360 experimental conditions. We inferred an EGRIN using the estimated TFA, rather than the TF expression, as the regulator. The EGRIN identified hypotheses for 4,052 genes regulated by 113 TFs; of these, 18% were in the network prior. We resolved distinct regulatory roles for members of a large TF family, including a putative regulatory connection between abiotic stress and the circadian clock, as well as specific regulatory functions for TFs in the drought response. We find that TFA estimation is an effective way of incorporating multiple genome-scale measurements into network inference and that supplementing data from controlled experimental conditions with data from outdoor field conditions increases the resolution of EGRIN inference.', u'Premise of the study \nShifts in ploidy level will affect the evolutionary dynamics of genomes in a myriad of ways. Population genetic theory predicts that transposable element (TE) proliferation may follow because the genome wide efficacy of selection should be reduced and the increase in gene copies may mask the deleterious effects of TE insertions. However, to date the evidence of TE proliferation following an increase in ploidy is mixed, with some studies reporting results consistent with this scenario and others signs of genome downsizing. \nMethods\nWe used high-coverage whole genome sequence data to evaluate the abundance, genomic distribution, and population frequencies of TEs in the self-fertilizing recent allotetraploid Capsella bursa-pastoris, a species with prior evidence for genome-wide reductions in selection at the amino acid level since the transition to selfing. We then compared the C. bursa-pastoris TE profile with that of its two parental species, outcrossing C. grandiflora and self-fertilzing C. orientalis.  \nKey results\nWe found no evidence that C. bursa-pastoris has experienced a large proliferation of TEs. Instead, the abundance, both overall and near genes, as well as the population frequencies of TEs, are intermediate to that of its two parental species C. grandiflora and C. orientalis.  \nConclusions \nThe lack of shift in TE profile beyond additivity expectations in C. bursa-pastoris can be because of variety of factors. In general, we argue that allopolyploid lineages that retain high outcrossing should provide a "perfect storm" for TE proliferation, while highly selfing polyploids may generally experience TE loss.', u'During seed germination sugars and auxin are produced from stored precursors or conjugates respectively and transported to the seedling axis.  To elucidate the mode of travel of IAA into the phloem a solution of [3H]indoleacetic acid (IAA), together with [14C]sucrose, was injected in the endosperm cavity harboring the cotyledons of germinating seedlings of Ricinus communis.  Phloem exudate from the cut hypocotyl was collected and the radioactivity recorded.  Sucrose loading in the phloem was inhibited at higher IAA levels, and the rate of filling of the transient pool(s) was reduced by IAA.  IAA was detected within 10 minutes, with the concentration increasing over 30 min and reaching a steady-state by 60 min.  The kinetics indicated that phloem loading of IAA involving both an active, carrier-based, and a passive, diffusion-based component, with IAA traveling along a pathway containing an intermediary pool, possibly the protoplasts of mesophyll cells.  Phloem loading of IAA was altered by sucrose, K+ and a range of non-specific and IAA-specific analogues and inhibitors in a manner that showed that IAA moves into the phloem from the extra cotyledonary solution by multiple pathways, with a carrier mediated pathway playing a principal role.', u'Background: Customizable endonucleases are providing an effective tool for genome engineering. The resulting primary transgenic individuals are typically heterozygous and/or chimeric with respect to any mutations induced. To generate genetically fixed mutants, they are conventionally allowed to self-pollinate, a procedure which segregates individuals into mutant heterozygotes/homozygotes and wild types. The chances of recovering homozygous mutants among the progeny depends not only on meiotic segregation but also on the frequency of mutated germline cells in the chimeric mother plant.\n\nResults: RNA-guided endonuclease-mediated mutagenesis was targeted to the green fluorescent protein gene (gfp) harboured by a transgenic tobacco line. Upon retransformation using a gfp-specific endonuclease construct, the T0 plants were allowed to either self-pollinate, or were propagated via regeneration from in vitro cultured embryogenic pollen which give rise to haploid/doubled haploid plants or from leaf explants that form plants vegetatively. Single or multiple mutations were detected in 80% of the T0 plants. The majority of these mutations proved heritable by each of the three propagation systems used. Regeneration from in vitro cultured embryogenic pollen allowed for homozygous mutants to be produced more efficiently than via sexual reproduction. The recovery of mutations that were not found among sexually produced progeny was shown to be achievable through vegetative plant propagation in vitro. In addition, a number of mutations not detected in the primary gRNA/Cas9-expressing plants were uncovered in the progeny, irrespective of the mode of propagation. \n\nConclusion: Regeneration from embryogenic pollen culture provides a convenient method to rapidly generate a variety of genetically fixed mutants following site-directed mutagenesis. Induced mutations that are not sexually transmitted can be recovered through vegetative plant regeneration from somatic tissue.', u'Explaining trait differences between individuals is a core but challenging aim of life sciences. Here, we introduce a powerful framework for complete decomposition of trait variation into its underlying genetic causes in diploid model organisms. We intercross two natural genomes over many sexual generations, sequence and systematically pair the recombinant gametes into a large array of diploid hybrids with fully assembled and phased genomes, termed Phased Outbred Lines (POLs). We demonstrate the capacity of the framework by partitioning fitness traits of 7310 yeast POLs across many environments, achieving near complete trait heritability (mean H2 = 91%) and precisely estimating additive (74%), dominance (8%), second (9%) and third (1.8%) order epistasis components. We found nonadditive quantitative trait loci (QTLs) to outnumber (3:1) but to be weaker than additive loci; dominant contributions to heterosis to outnumber overdominant (3:1); and pleiotropy to be the rule rather than the exception. The POL approach presented here offers the most complete decomposition of diploid traits to date and can be adapted to most model organisms.', u'Stable endosymbiosis of a bacterium into a host cell promotes cellular and genomic complexity. The mealybug Planococcus citri has two bacterial endosymbionts; remarkably, the gammaproteobacterium Moranella endobia lives in the cytoplasm of the betaproteobacterium Tremblaya princeps. These two bacteria, along with genes horizontally transferred from other bacteria to the P. citri genome, encode complementary gene sets that form a complex metabolic patchwork.  Here we test the stability of this three-way symbiosis by sequencing host-symbiont genome pairs for five diverse mealybug species. We find marked fluidity over evolutionary time: while Tremblaya is the result of a single infection in the ancestor of mealybugs, the innermost gammaproteobacterial symbionts result from multiple replacements of inferred different ages from related but distinct bacterial lineages. Our data show that symbiont replacement can happen even in the most intricate symbiotic arrangements, and that pre-existing horizontally transferred genes can remain stable on genomes in the face of extensive symbiont turnover.', u'Melanoma cell lines are an essential tool for melanoma research. Melanoma cells are routinely identified using antigens encoded by genes that are commonly expressed in melanocytes and melanoma cell lines. Common markers include: S100; HMB-45; and Melan-A. Our study explores the expression of these three markers in four different human melanoma cell lines: WM35; WM793; SK-MEL-28; and MM127. All melanoma cell lines we use are validated using short tandem repeat (STR) profiling. The alleles obtained from STR profiling are analysed using the DMSZ database to give the closest match to each cell line we consider. Results for the metastatic melanoma cell line, MM127, are not as expected since there is no match identified using the MM127 alleles.  We also examine the expression of S100; HMB-45 and Melan-A at both the mRNA and the protein level by performing immunofluorescence, Western blotting and quantitative real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) assays.  Again, our results for the metastatic melanoma cell line, MM127, are not as expected. This cell line is not identifiable using any of the three markers. Since the MM127 cell line does not express any of the standard melanoma-associated markers, we suggest that it would be difficult to perform further melanoma-related experiments using this cell line, and that this cell line should be used with care.', u'Phosphorus is an essential nutrient for all plants, but is one of the least mobile, and consequently least available, in the soil. Plants have evolved a series of metabolic and developmental adaptations to increase the acquisition of phosphorus and to maximize the efficiency of use within the plant. In Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), the PHO1 protein regulates and facilitates the distribution of phosphorus within the plant. To investigate the role of PHO1 in maize (Zea mays), we searched the B73 reference genome for homologous sequences and identified four genes that we designated ZmPho1;1, ZmPho1;2a, ZmPho1;2b and ZmPho1;3.  ZmPho1;2a and ZmPho1;2b are the most similar to AtPho1, and represent candidate co-orthologs that we hypothesize to have been retained following whole genome duplication. Tissue- and phosphate- specific differences in the accumulation of ZmPho1;2a and ZmPho1;2b transcripts suggest functional divergence. The presence of phosphate-regulated anti-sense transcripts derived from both ZmPho1;2a and ZmPho1;2b, suggest the possibility of regulatory crosstalk between paralogs. To characterize functional divergence between ZmPho1;2a and ZmPho1;2b, we have performed transposon mutagenesis using the Ac/Ds system and describe here the generation of novel insertion alleles.', u'Many reef-building corals acquire their algal symbionts (Symbiodinium sp.) from the local environment upon recruitment. This horizontal transmission strategy where hosts pair with locally available symbionts could serve to increase coral fitness across diverse environments, as long as hosts maintain high promiscuity and symbionts adapt locally. Here, we tested this hypothesis in two coral species by comparing host and symbiont genetic structures across different spatial scales in Micronesia. Each host species associated with two genetically distinct Symbiodinium lineages, confirming high promiscuity in broadly dispersing hosts. However, contrary to our initial expectation, symbiont genetic structure was independent of physical barriers to dispersal between islands, unlike genetic structure of their hosts that was nearly perfectly explained by ocean currents. Instead, Symbiodinium consistently demonstrated genetic divergence among local reefs and between the two host species at each island, although not necessarily between distant islands. These observations indicate that Symbiodiniumlineages disperse much more broadly than previously thought and continuously adapt to specific hosts and reef environments across their range, following the classical Baas Becking\u2032s hypothesis: \u2033Everything is everywhere, but the environment selects\u2033. Overall, our findings confirm that horizontal transmission could be a mechanism for broadly dispersing coral species to enhance their local fitness by associating with locally adapted symbionts. Dramatic differences in factors driving the genetic structures of horizontally-transmitting corals and their Symbiodinium imply that viewing their combined genomes as a single entity (\u2032hologenome\u2032) would not be useful in the context of their evolution and adaptation.', u'The genotype-phenotype relationships are a central focus of modern genetics.  While deletion analyses have uncovered many regulatory genes of specific traits, it remains largely unknown how these regulators execute their commands through downstream genes, or executors.  Here, we wish to know the number of executors for each trait, their relationships with the regulators and the role natural selection may play in shaping the regulator-executor-phenotype architecture.  By analyzing ~500 morphological traits of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae we found that a trait is often controlled directly by a large number of executors, the expressions of which are affected by regulators.  By recruiting a set of "coordinating" regulators, natural selection helps organize the large number of executors into a small number of co-expression modules.  This way, the individual executors can be readily recognized by observational approaches that examine the statistical association between gene activity and trait.  When the trait is subject to little or no selection, however, the executors are controlled only by "non-coordinating" regulators that evolve passively and do not build the executors\' co-expression.  As a result, none of the executors remain a statistically tractable relationship with the trait.  Thus, natural selection by governing some traits strongly (such as fertility) and others weakly (such as aging-related phenotypes) profoundly influences the genotype-phenotype relationships as well as their tractability.', u'The study of genomic regions that contain gene copies and structural variation is a major challenge in modern genomics. Unlike variation involving single nucleotide changes, data on the variation of copy number is difficult to collect and few tools exist for analyzing the variation between individuals. The immunoglobulin heavy variable (IGHV) locus, which plays an integral role in the adaptive immune response, is an example of a genomic region that is known to vary in gene copy number. Lack of standard methods to genotype this region prevents it from being included in association studies and is holding back the growing field of antibody repertoire analysis. Here, we establish a convention of representing the locus in terms of a reference panel of operationally distinguishable segments defined by hierarchical clustering. Using this reference set, we develop a pipeline that identifies copy number and allelic variation in the IGHV locus from whole-genome sequencing reads. Tests on simulated reads demonstrate that our approach is feasible and accurate for detecting the presence and absence of gene segments using reads as short as 70 bp. With reads 100 bp and longer, coverage depth can also be used to determine copy number. When applied to a family of European ancestry, our method finds new copy number variants and confirms existing variants. This study paves the way for analyzing population-level patterns of variation in the IGHV locus in larger diverse datasets and for quantitatively handling regions of copy number variation in other structurally varying and complex loci.', u'Background: Vector-borne pathogens impact public health and economies worldwide. It has long been recognized that research on arthropod vectors such as mosquitoes, ticks, sandflies and midges which transmit parasites and arboviruses to humans and economically important animals is crucial for development of new control measures that target transmission by the vector. While insecticides are an important part of this arsenal, appearance of resistance mechanisms is an increasing issue. Novel tools for genetic manipulation of vectors, use of Wolbachia endosymbiotic bacteria and other biological control mechanisms to prevent pathogen transmission have led to promising new intervention strategies. This has increased interest in vector biology and genetics as well as vector-pathogen interactions. Vector research is therefore at a crucial juncture, and strategic decisions on future research directions and research infrastructures will benefit from community input. \nMethodology/Principal Findings: A survey initiated by the European Horizon2020 INFRAVEC-2 consortium set out to canvass priorities in the vector biology research community and to determine key issues that should be addressed for researchers to efficiently study vectors, vector-pathogen interactions, as well as access the structures and services that allow such work to be carried out. \nConclusions/Significance: We summarize the key findings of the survey which in particular reflect priorities in European countries, and which will be of use to stakeholders that include researchers, government, and research organizations.', u"Vaccinia virus (VACV) is an established tool for vaccination and is beginning to prove effective as an oncolytic agent. Industrial production of VACV stands to benefit in future from advances made by synthetic biology in genome engineering and standardisation. As a step toward realising these benefits we analysed the Lister Vaccinia virus genome with respect to refactoring options and propose a VACV genome engineering BioBrickTM. We then used the CV-1 cell line to produce a conventional recombinant Lister strain VACV, VACVL-15 RFP in a serum-free process. CV-1 cells grown in 5% foetal bovine serum (FBS) Dulbecco's Modified Eagle Medium (DMEM) were adapted to growth in OptiPRO and VP-SFM brands of serum-free media. Specific growth rates of 0.047 h-1 and 0.044 h-1 were observed for cells adapted to OptiPRO and VP-SFM respectively, compared to 0.035 h-1 in 5% FBS DMEM. Cells adapted to OptiPRO and to 5% FBS DMEM achieved recovery ratios of over 96%, an indication of their robustness to cryopreservation. Cells adapted to VP-SFM showed a recovery ratio of 82%. VACV production in static culture, measured as plaque forming units (PFU) per propagator cell, was 75 PFU/cell for cells in 5% FBS DMEM. VP-SFM and OptiPRO adaptation increased VACV production to 150 PFU/cell and 350 PFU/cell respectively. Boosted PFU/cell from OptiPRO-adapted cells persisted when 5% FBS DMEM or OptiPRO medium was present during the infection step and when titre was measured using cells adapted to 5% FBS DMEM or OptiPRO medium. Finally, OptiPRO-adapted CV-1 cells were successfully cultivated using Cytodex-1 microcarriers to inform future scale up studies.", u'While the heterogeneity of cancer is increasingly appreciated, it is also clear that recurrently deregulated pathways are shared between tumors across tissue types. To identify similarities in subsets of tumors from multiple epithelial organs, we performed transcriptome profile analysis of different epithelial tumors and cell lines (n=2928) from 17 different organs. We identified three to seven consensus gene expression subtypes in epithelial tumors and cell lines, irrespective of the organ-specific origin. These consensus subtypes showed biological significance. Moreover, we identified specific gene signatures that could be used to develop clinical assays for future application of this classification system. Overall, our study identifies consensus transcriptome subtypes across organ-specific tumors and highlights new avenues for precision therapy irrespective of the organ of origin.', u'Cryptic genetic variation (CGV), hidden under most conditions, is the repressed genetic potential that can facilitate adaptation and evolution. The conditional manifestation of CGV has been claimed to explain the background dependence of causal loci as well as missing heritability. However, despite being proposed over 60 years ago, the genetic architecture and regulation of CGV and its contribution towards regulation of complex traits remains unclear. Using linkage mapping of mean and variance effects, we have identified loci that regulate phenotypic manifestation of standing genetic variation in a previously published dataset of biparental Saccharomyces cerevisiae population grown in 34 diverse environments. Based on our results we propose the existence of a gradient of buffering states for a population determined by the environment. Most environments show a tight buffering with additive, independent causal loci with little epistasis. However, as this buffering is disrupted, the underlying highly interconnected environment-specific genetic interactome is revealed such that each causal locus is a part of this network. Interspersed within these networks are generalist capacitors that regulate CGV across multiple environments, with one allele behaving as a capacitor and the other as a potentiator. Our study demonstrates the connecting link between architecture of hidden and visible genetic variation and uncovers the genetic networks which potentially underlie all complex traits. Our study establishes CGV as a significant contributor to phenotypic variation, and provides evidence for a predictable pattern underlying gene-gene and gene-environment interactions that can explain background dependence and missing heritability in complex traits and diseases.', u'Meiotic recombination breaks down linkage disequilibrium and forms new haplotypes, meaning that it is an important driver of diversity in eukaryotic genomes. Understanding the causes of variation in recombination rate is important in interpreting and predicting evolutionary phenomena and for understanding the potential of a population to respond to selection. However, despite attention in model systems, there remains little data on how recombination rate varies at the individual level in natural populations. Here, we used extensive pedigree and high-density SNP information in a wild population of Soay sheep (Ovis aries) to investigate the genetic architecture of individual autosomal recombination rate. Individual rates were high relative to other mammal systems, and were higher in males than in females (autosomal map lengths of 3748 cM and 2860 cM, respectively). The heritability of autosomal recombination rate was low but significant in both sexes (h2 = 0.16 & 0.12 in females and males, respectively). In females, 46.7% of the heritable variation was explained by a sub-telomeric region on chromosome 6; a genome-wide association study showed the strongest associations at the locus RNF212, with further associations observed at a nearby ~374kb region of complete linkage disequilibrium containing three additional candidate loci, CPLX1, GAK and PCGF3. A second region on chromosome 7 containing REC8 and RNF212B explained 26.2% of the heritable variation in recombination rate in both sexes. Comparative analyses with 40 other sheep breeds showed that haplotypes associated with recombination rates are both old and globally distributed. Both regions have been implicated in rate variation in mice, cattle and humans, suggesting a common genetic architecture of recombination rate variation in mammals.', u'The social network structure of animal populations has major implications for survival, reproductive success, sexual selection, and pathogen transmission of individuals. But as of yet, no general theory of social network structure exists that can explain the diversity of social networks observed in nature, and serve as a null model for detecting species and population-specific factors. Here we propose a simple and generally applicable model of social network structure. We consider the emergence of network structure as a result of social inheritance, in which newborns are likely to bond with maternal contacts, and via forming bonds randomly. We compare model output to data from several species, showing that it can generate networks with properties such as those observed in real social systems. Our model demonstrates that important observed properties of social networks, including heritability of network position or assortative associations, can be understood as consequences of social inheritance.', u'Self-assembling filamentous structures made of protein subunits are ubiquitous in cell biology. These structures are often highly dynamic, with subunits in a continuous state of flux, binding to and falling off the filament. In spite of this constant turnover of their molecular parts, many cellular structures seem to maintain a well-defined size over time, which is often required for their proper functioning. One widely discussed mechanism of size regulation involves the cell maintaining a finite pool of protein subunits available for assembly. This finite pool mechanism can control the length of a single filament by having assembly proceed until the pool of free subunits is depleted to the point when assembly and disassembly are balanced. Still, this leaves open the question whether the same mechanism can provide size control for multiple filamentous structures that are assembled from a common pool of protein subunits, as is often the case in cells. We address this question by solving the steady-state master equation governing the stochastic assembly and disassembly of multi-filament structures made from a shared, finite pool of subunits. We find that, while the total number of subunits within a multi-filament structure is well defined, individual filaments within the structure have a wide, power-law distribution of lengths. We also compute the phase diagram for two multi-filament structures competing for the same pool of subunits and identify conditions for coexistence when both have a well-defined size. These predictions can be tested in cell experiments in which the size of the subunit pool or the number of filaments with a multifilament structure is tuned within a cell.', u'Several neuropsychiatric conditions, such as addiction, schizophrenia, and depression may arise in part from dysregulated activity of ventral tegmental area dopaminergic (THVTA) neurons, as well as from more global maladaptation in neurocircuit function. However, whether THVTA activity affects large-scale brain-wide function remains unknown. Here, we selectively activated THVTA neurons in transgenic rats and measured resulting changes in whole-brain activity using stimulus-evoked functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Selective optogenetic stimulation of THVTA neurons not only enhanced cerebral blood volume (CBV) signals in striatal target regions in a dopamine receptor dependent fashion, but also engaged many additional anatomically defined regions throughout the brain. In addition, repeated pairing of THVTA neuronal activity with forepaw stimulation, produced an expanded brain-wide sensory representation. These data suggest that modulation of THVTA neurons can impact brain dynamics across many distributed anatomically distinct regions, even those that receive little to no direct THVTA input.', u'The Mutual Information of pairs of data vectors, for example sequence alignment positions or gene expression profiles, is a quantitative measure of the interdependence between the data.\nHowever, data vectors based on a finite number of samples retain non-zero Mutual Information values even for completely random data, which is referred to as background or residual Mutual Information.\nEstimates of the residual Mutual Information have so far been obtained through heuristic or numerical approximations. Here we introduce a simple analytical formula for the computation of the residual Mutual Information that yields precise values and does not\nrequire the joint probabilities between the vector elements as input.', u'The spatiotemporal localization of the plant hormone auxin acts as a positional cue during early leaf and flower organogenesis. One of the main contributors to auxin localization is the auxin efflux carrier PIN-FORMED1 (PIN1). Phylogenetic analysis has revealed that PIN1 genes are split into two sister clades; PIN1 and the relatively uncharacterized Sister-Of-PIN1 (SoPIN1). In this paper we identify entire-2 as a loss-of-function SlSoPIN1a (Solyc10g078370) mutant in Solanum lycopersicum. The entire-2 plants are unable to specify proper leaf initiation leading to a frequent switch from the wild type spiral phyllotactic pattern to distichous and decussate patterns. Leaves in entire-2 are large and less complex and the leaflets display spatial deformities in lamina expansion, vascular development, and margin specification. During sympodial growth in entire-2 the specification of organ position and identity is greatly affected resulting in variable branching patterns on the main sympodial and inflorescence axes. To understand how SlSoPIN1a functions in establishing proper auxin maxima we used the auxin signaling reporter DR5::Venus to visualize differences in auxin localization between entire-2 and wild type. DR5::Venus visualization shows a widening of auxin localization which spreads to subepidermal tissue layers during early leaf and flower organogenesis, showing that SoPIN1 functions to focus auxin signaling to the epidermal layer. The striking spatial deformities observed in entire-2 help provide a mechanistic framework for explaining the function of the SoPIN1 clade in angiosperm species.', u'Background \nEvidence suggests that Zika virus has driven a 10-fold increase in babies born with microcephaly in Brazil, prompting the WHO to declare a Public Health Emergency of International Concern. However, little is known about the natural history of infection. These data are critical for implementation of surveillance and control measures such as protecting the blood supply.\n\nMethods\nWe conducted a systematic review and pooled analysis to estimate the distribution of times from Zika infection to symptom onset, seroconversion, and viral clearance, and analyzed their implications for surveillance and blood supply safety.  \n\nResults\nBased on 25 case reports, we estimate the median incubation period of Zika virus infection is 5.9 days (95% CI: 4.4-7.6), and that 95% of cases will develop symptoms by 11.1 days post-infection (95% CI: 7.6-18.0). On average seroconversion occurs 9.0 days (95% CI, 7.0-11.6) after infection, and virus is detectable in blood for 9.9 days (95% CI: 6.8-21.4). In 5% of cases detectable virus persists for over 18.9 days (95% CI: 12.6-79.5). The baseline (no screening) risk of a blood donation being infected with Zika increases by approximately 1 in 10,000 for every 1 per 100,000 person-days increase in Zika incidence. Symptom based screening reduces this by 7% (RR 0.93, 93% CI 0.86-0.99), and antibody screening by 29% (RR 0.71, 95% CI: 0.28-0.88).\n\nConclusions\nSymptom or antibody-based surveillance can do little to reduce the risk of Zika contaminated blood donations. High incidence areas may consider PCR testing to identify lots safe for use in pregnant women.', u'Understanding population dynamics from  the analysis of molecular and spatial  data requires sound statistical modeling. Current  approaches assume that  populations  are  naturally  partitioned into discrete  demes,  thereby failing to be relevant in cases where individuals are scattered on a spatial continuum.  Other models predict the formation of  increasingly tight clusters of individuals in space, which, again, conflicts with biological evidence. Building on  recent  theoretical work,  we introduce  a new  genealogy-based inference framework that alleviates these issues. This approach effectively implements a stochastic model in which the  distribution of individuals  is homogeneous  and stationary, thereby providing a relevant null model for the  fluctuation of genetic diversity in time and space. Importantly, the spatial density of individuals in a population and their range of dispersal during the course of evolution are two parameters that can be inferred separately with this method. The validity of  the new inference framework is  confirmed  with extensive simulations and the analysis of influenza sequences collected over five seasons in the USA.', u'After DNA damage, the cell cycle is arrested to avoid propagation of mutations. In G2 phase, the arrest is initiated by ATM/ATR-dependent signalling that blocks mitosis-promoting kinases as Plk1. Interestingly, Plk1 can counteract ATR-dependent signalling and is required for eventual resumption of the cell cycle. However, what determines when Plk1 activity can resume remains unclear. Here we use FRET-based reporters to show that a global spread of ATM activity on chromatin and phosphorylation of targets including Kap1 control Plk1 re-activation. These phosphorylations are rapidly counteracted by the chromatin-bound phosphatase Wip1, allowing a cell cycle restart despite persistent ATM activity present at DNA lesions. Combining experimental data and mathematical modelling we propose that the minimal duration of a cell cycle arrest is controlled by a timer. Our model shows how cell cycle re-start can occur before completion of DNA repair and suggests a mechanism for checkpoint adaptation in human cells.', u'Although large-scale efforts for molecular profiling of cancer samples provide multiple data types for many samples, most approaches for finding candidate cancer genes rely on somatic mutations and DNA copy number only. We present a new method, OncoScape, which, for the first time, exploits five complementary data types across 11 cancer types to identify new candidate cancer genes. We find many rarely mutated genes that are strongly affected by other aberrations. We retrieve the majority of known cancer genes but also new candidates such as STK31 and MSRA with very high confidence. Several genes show a dual oncogene- and tumor suppressor-like behavior depending on the tumor type. Most notably, the well- known tumor suppressor RB1 shows strong oncogene-like signal in colon cancer. We applied OncoScape to cell lines representing ten cancer types, providing the most comprehensive comparison of aberrations in cell lines and tumor samples to date. This revealed that glioblastoma, breast and colon cancer show strong similarity between cell lines and tumors, while head and neck squamous cell carcinoma and bladder cancer, exhibit very little similarity between cell lines and tumors. To facilitate exploration of the cancer aberration landscape, we created a web portal enabling interactive analysis of OncoScape results.', u'Behavioral flexibility is considered an important trait for adapting to environmental change, but it is unclear what it is, how it works, and whether it is a problem solving ability. I investigated behavioral flexibility and problem solving abilities experimentally in great-tailed grackles, an invasive species and thus a likely candidate for possessing behavioral flexibility. I found that grackles are behaviorally flexible and good problem solvers, they vary in behavioral flexibility across contexts, flexibility did not correlate with problem solving ability, and those that are more flexible did not necessarily use more learning strategies. It appears that behavioral flexibility can be an independent trait that varies across contexts. Maintaining such a high level of variation could be a mechanism underlying successful species invasions. These results highlight the need to investigate how individuals use behavior to react to changing environments.', u'Tardigrades are meiofaunal ecdysozoans that are key to understanding the origins of Arthropoda. Many species of Tardigrada can survive extreme conditions through cryptobiosis. In a recent paper (Boothby TC et al (2015) Evidence for extensive horizontal gene transfer from the draft genome of a tardigrade. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 112:15976-15981) the authors concluded that the tardigrade Hypsibius dujardini had an unprecedented proportion (17%) of genes originating through functional horizontal gene transfer (fHGT), and speculated that fHGT was likely formative in the evolution of cryptobiosis. We independently sequenced the genome of H. dujardini. As expected from whole-organism DNA sampling, our raw data contained reads from non-target genomes. Filtering using metagenomics approaches generated a draft H. dujardini genome assembly of 135 Mb with superior assembly metrics to the previously published assembly. Additional microbial contamination likely remains. We found no support for extensive fHGT. Among 23,021 gene predictions we identified 0.2% strong candidates for fHGT from bacteria, and 0.2% strong candidates for fHGT from non-metazoan eukaryotes. Cross-comparison of assemblies showed that the overwhelming majority of HGT candidates in the Boothby et al. genome derived from contaminants. We conclude that fHGT into H. dujardini accounts for at most 1-2% of genes and that the proposal that one sixth of tardigrade genes originate from functional HGT events is an artefact of undetected contamination.', u"We developed a statistical method, BIOSEA, able to identify molecules that are capable of reproducing a desired cellular phenotype, by scanning a large compound collection based on biological similarity. Our method leverages highly incomplete and noisy compound bioactivity signatures from historical high-throughput screening campaigns. We applied our approach in a phenotypic screening workflow and found novel nanomolar inhibitors of cell division that reproduce the mode of action of reference natural products. In a drug discovery setting, our biological hit expansion protocol revealed new inhibitors of the NKCC1 co-transporter for autism spectrum disorders.  Furthermore, we demonstrate BIOSEA's capabilities to predict novel targets for old compounds. We report new activities for the drugs nimedipine, fluspirilene and pimozide applicable for compound repurposing and rationalizing drug side effects. Our results highlight the opportunities of reusing public bioactivity data for prospective drug discovery applications where the target or mode of action is not known.", u'Cortical networks exhibit intrinsic dynamics that drive coordinated, large-scale fluctuations across neuronal populations and create noise correlations that impact sensory coding. To investigate the network-level mechanisms that underlie these dynamics, we developed novel computational techniques to fit a deterministic spiking network model directly to multi-neuron recordings from different species, sensory modalities, and behavioral states. The model accurately reproduced the wide variety of activity patterns in our recordings, and analysis of its parameters suggested that differences in noise correlations across recordings were due primarily to differences in the strength of feedback inhibition. Further analysis of our recordings confirmed that putative inhibitory interneurons were indeed more active during desynchronized cortical states with weak noise correlations. Our results demonstrate the power of fitting spiking network models directly to multi-neuron recordings and suggest that inhibition modulates the interactions between intrinsic dynamics and sensory inputs by controlling network stability. (MP and CS have contributed equally)', u'Bacterial genomes vary extensively in terms of both gene content and gene sequence - this plasticity hampers the use of traditional SNP-based methods for identifying all genetic associations with phenotypic variation. Here we introduce a computationally scalable and widely applicable statistical method (SEER) for the identification of sequence elements that are significantly enriched in a phenotype of interest. SEER is applicable to even tens of thousands of genomes by counting variable-length k-mers using a distributed string-mining algorithm. Robust options are provided for association analysis that also correct for the clonal population structure of bacteria. Using large collections of genomes of the major human pathogen Streptococcus pneumoniae, SEER identifies relevant previously characterised resistance determinants for several antibiotics. We thus demonstrate that our method can answer important biologically and medically relevant questions.', u'Natural genetic circuits enable cells to make sophisticated digital decisions. Building equally complex synthetic circuits in eukaryotes remains difficult, however, because commonly used genetic components leak transcriptionally, do not allow arbitrary interconnections, or do not have digital responses. Here, we designed a new dCas9-Mxi1 based NOR gate architecture in S. cerevisiae that allows arbitrary connectivity and large genetic circuits. Because we used the strong chromatin remodeler Mxi1, our system showed very little leak and exhibits a highly digital response. In particular, we built a combinatorial library of NOR gates that each directly convert guide RNA (gRNA) input signals into gRNA output signals, enabling NOR gates to be \u201cwired\u201d together. We constructed and characterized logic circuits with up to seven independent gRNAs, including repression cascades with up to seven layers. Modeling predicted that the NOR gates have Hill Coefficients of approximately 1.71\xb10.09, explaining the minimal signal degradation we observed in these deeply layered circuits. Our approach enables the construction of the largest, eukaryotic gene circuits to date and will form the basis for large, synthetic, decision making systems in living cells.', u'Although cell cycle control is an ancient, conserved, and essential process, some core animal and fungal cell cycle regulators share no more sequence identity than non-homologous proteins. Here, we show that evolution along the fungal lineage was punctuated by the early acquisition and entrainment of the SBF transcription factor through horizontal gene transfer. Cell cycle evolution in the fungal ancestor then proceeded through a hybrid network containing both SBF and its ancestral animal counterpart E2F, which is still maintained in many basal fungi. We hypothesize that a virally-derived SBF may have initially hijacked cell cycle control by activating transcription via the cis-regulatory elements targeted by the ancestral cell cycle regulator E2F, much like extant viral oncogenes.  Consistent with this hypothesis, we show that SBF can regulate promoters with E2F binding sites in budding yeast.', u'Background: The integration of genome annotations and reference databases is critical to identifying genetic variants that may be of interest in studies of disease or other traits. However, comprehensive variant annotation with diverse file formats is difficult with existing methods. \n\nResults: We have developed vcfanno as a flexible toolset that simplifies the annotation of genetic variants in VCF format. Vcfanno can extract and summarize multiple attributes from one or more annotation files and append the resulting annotations to the INFO field of the original VCF file. Vcfanno also integrates the lua scripting language so that users can easily develop custom annotations and metrics. By leveraging a new parallel chromosome sweeping algorithm, it enables rapid annotation of both whole-exome and whole-genome datasets. We demonstrate this performance by annotating over 85.3 million variants in less than 17 minutes (>85,000 variants per second) with 50 attributes from 17 commonly used genome annotations. \n\nConclusions: Vcfanno is a flexible software package that provides researchers with the ability to annotate genetic variation with a wide range of datasets and reference databases in diverse genomic formats. \n\nAvailability: The vcfanno source code is available at https://github.com/brentp/vcfanno under the MIT license, and platform-specific binaries are available at https://github.com/brentp/vcfanno/releases. Detailed documentation is available at http://brentp.github.io/vcfanno/, and the code underlying the analyses presented can be found at https://github.com/brentp/vcfanno/tree/master/scripts/paper.', u"The diversity of a person's B- and T-cell repertoires is both clinically important and a key measure of immunological complexity. However, diversity is hard to estimate by current methods, due to inherent uncertainty in the number of B- and T-cell clones that will be missing from a blood or tissue sample by chance (the missing-species problem), inevitable sampling bias, and experimental noise. To solve this problem we developed Recon, a modified maximum-likelihood method that outputs the overall diversity of a repertoire from measurements on a sample. Recon outputs accurate, robust estimates by any of a vast set of complementary diversity measures, including species richness and entropy, at fractional repertoire coverage. It also outputs error bars and power tables, allowing robust comparisons of diversity between individuals and over time. We apply Recon to in silico and experimental immune-repertoire sequencing datasets as proof of principle for measuring diversity in large, complex systems.", u'Single-cell gene expression profiles of differentiating cells encode their intrinsic latent temporal order. We describe an efficient way to robustly estimate this order according to a diffusion pseudotime, which measures transitions on all length scales between cells using diffusion-like random walks. This allows us to identify cells that undergo branching decisions or are in metastable states, and thereby genes differentially regulated at these states.', u"We investigate the dependence of the site frequency spectrum (SFS) on the topological structure of genealogical trees. We show that basic population genetic statistics -- for instance estimators of \u03b8 or neutrality tests such as Tajima's D -- can be decomposed into components of waiting times between coalescent events and of tree topology. Our results clarify the relative impact of the two components on these statistics. We provide a rigorous interpretation of positive or negative values of neutrality tests in terms of the underlying tree shape. In particular, we show that values of Tajima's D and Fay and Wu's H depend in a direct way on a measure of tree balance which is mostly determined by the root balance of the tree. We also compute the maximum and minimum values for neutrality tests as a function of sample size.\n\nFocusing on the standard coalescent model of neutral evolution, we discuss how waiting times between coalescent events are related to derived allele frequencies and thereby to the frequency spectrum. Finally, we show how tree balance affects the frequency spectrum. In particular, we derive the complete SFS conditioned on the root imbalance. We show that the conditional spectrum is peaked at frequencies corresponding to the root imbalance and strongly biased towards rare alleles.", u'The dynamic organization of genes inside the nucleus is an important determinant for their biological function. Using ultra-fast microscopy in living S. cerevisiae cells and improved analysis of DNA mean square displacements, we observe that DNA motion is sub-diffusive at time scales ranging from 10 ms to a few minutes. These distinct sub-diffusive regimes simultaneously drive DNA motion differently at each time scale. In response to a double-strand break, a damaged locus is more mobile at large time scales but, surprisingly, the broken DNA imaged at millisecond intervals is much less mobile. Such a change in the sub-diffusion mode dramatically modifies how DNA explores its surrounding nuclear space. We propose a model in which stiffening of the damaged DNA ends by the repair complex reduces its mobility locally, but allows significant nuclear exploration at longer time scales due to an enhanced ability to traverse the DNA meshwork.', u'Conserved genes evolve slowly in nature, by definition, but we find that some conserved genes are among the fastest-evolving genes in the long-term evolution experiment with Escherichia coli (LTEE). We identified the set of almost 2000 core genes shared among sixty clinical, environmental, and laboratory strains of E. coli. During the LTEE, these core genes accumulated significantly more nonsynonymous mutations than did flexible (i.e., noncore) genes after accounting for the mutational target size. Furthermore, the core genes under strongest positive selection in the LTEE are more conserved in nature than the average core gene based both on sequence diversity among E. coli strains and divergence between E. coli and Salmonella enterica. We conclude that the conditions of the LTEE are novel for E. coli, at least in relation to the long sweep of its evolution in nature. We suggest that what is most novel about the LTEE for the bacteria is the constancy of the environment, its biophysical simplicity, and the absence of microbial competitors, predators, and parasites.', u"Changes in neuronal activity create local and transient changes in energy demands at synapses. Here we discover a metabolic compartment that forms in vivo near synapses to meet local energy demands and support synaptic function in Caenorhabditis elegans neurons. Under conditions of energy stress, glycolytic enzymes redistribute from a diffuse localization in the cytoplasm to a punctate localization adjacent to synapses. Glycolytic enzymes colocalize, suggesting the ad hoc formation of a glycolysis compartment, or a 'glycolytic metabolon', that can maintain local levels of ATP. Local formation of the glycolytic metabolon is dependent on presynaptic scaffolding proteins, and disruption of the glycolytic metabolon blocks the synaptic vesicle cycle, impairs synaptic recovery, and affects locomotion. Our studies indicate that energy demands in neurons are met locally through the assembly of a glycolytic metabolon to sustain synaptic function and behavior.", u'Genotypic fitness landscapes are constructed by assessing the fitness of all possible combinations of a given number of mutations. In the last years, several experimental fitness landscapes have been completely resolved. As fitness landscapes are high-dimensional, simple measures of their structure are used as statistics in empirical applications. Epistasis is one of the most relevant features of fitness landscapes. Here we propose a new natural measure of the amount of epistasis based on the correlation of fitness effects of mutations. This measure has a natural interpretation, captures well the interaction between mutations and can be obtained analytically for most landscape models. We discuss how this measure is related to previous measures of epistasis (number of peaks, roughness/slope, fraction of sign epistasis, Fourier-Walsh spectrum) and how it can be easily extended to landscapes with missing data or with fitness ranks only. Furthermore, the dependence of the correlation of fitness effects on mutational distance contains interesting information about the patterns of epistasis. This dependence can be used to uncover the amount and nature of epistatic interactions in a landscape or to discriminate between different landscape models.', u"In light of the rising cost, and often limited availability, of agricultural fertilizers, arbuscular mycorrhizas are attracting ever greater interest for their potential to promote more efficient use of the world's mineral resources. And yet, this potential remains largely unrealized, in part because of a lack of understanding of the factors determining the outcome of the symbiosis in any given context. In this work, we evaluated a panel of maize inbred lines, selected to maximize genetic diversity, under low phosphate availability, with or without inoculation with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Concomitant with measurement of plant growth, we characterized fungal morphology, element profiles and accumulation of transcripts encoding the PHT1 family of phosphorus transporters. We identified the lines Oh43 and Mo18W to show similar performance when not inoculated, but outlying high and low performance, respectively, when inoculated with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. We observed a correlation between the high responsiveness of Oh43 and the extent of the extra-radical fungal mycelium, consistent with the interpretation that the phosphorus contribution from the mycorrhizal uptake pathway is determined largely by the abundance of  hyphae in the soil.", u"Correctly estimating the age of a gene or gene family is important for a variety of fields, including molecular evolution, comparative genomics, and phylogenetics, and increasingly for systems biology and disease genetics. However, most studies use only a point estimate of a gene's age, neglecting the substantial uncertainty involved in this estimation. Here, we characterize this uncertainty by investigating the effect of algorithm choice on gene-age inference and calculate consensus gene ages with attendant error distributions for a variety of model eukaryotes. We use thirteen orthology inference algorithms to create gene-age datasets and then characterize the error around each age-call on a per-gene and per-algorithm basis. Systematic error was found to be a large factor in estimating gene age, suggesting that simple consensus algorithms are not enough to give a reliable point estimate. We also found that different sources of error can affect downstream analyses, such as gene ontology enrichment. Our consensus gene-age datasets, with associated error terms, are made fully available at so that researchers can propagate this uncertainty through their analyses (https://github.com/marcottelab/Gene-Ages).", u'Background: Haplotypes with reduced or missing homozygosity may harbor deleterious alleles that compromise juvenile survival. A scan for homozygous haplotype deficiency revealed a short segment on bovine chromosome 19 (Braunvieh haplotype 2, BH2) that was associated with high juvenile mortality in Braunvieh cattle. However, the molecular genetic underpinnings and the pathophysiology of BH2 remain to be elucidated.\nResults: The frequency of BH2 was 6.5 % in 8,446 Braunvieh animals from the national bovine genome databases. Both perinatal and juvenile mortality of BH2 homozygous calves were higher than the average in Braunvieh cattle resulting in a depletion of BH2 homozygous adult animals (P=9.3x10-12). The analysis of whole-genome sequence data from 54 Braunvieh animals uncovered a missense mutation in TUBD1 (rs383232842, p.H210R) that was compatible with recessive inheritance of BH2. The availability of sequence data of 236 animals from diverse bovine populations revealed that the missense mutation also segregated at a low frequency (1.7 %) in the Fleckvieh breed. A validation study in 37,314 Fleckvieh animals confirmed high juvenile mortality of homozygous calves (P=2.2x10-15). Our findings show that the putative disease allele is located on an ancestral haplotype that segregates in Braunvieh and Fleckvieh cattle. To unravel the pathophysiology of BH2, six homozygous animals were examined at the animal clinic. Clinical and pathological findings revealed that homozygous calves suffered from chronic airway disease possibly resulting from defective cilia in the respiratory tract.\nConclusions: A missense mutation in TUBD1 is associated with high perinatal and juvenile mortality in Braunvieh and Fleckvieh cattle. The mutation is located on a common haplotype likely originating from an ancient ancestor of Braunvieh and Fleckvieh cattle. Our findings demonstrate for the first time that deleterious alleles may segregate across closed cattle breeds without recent admixture. Homozygous calves suffer from chronic airway disease resulting in poor growth performance and high juvenile mortality. The respiratory manifestations resemble key features of diseases resulting from impaired function of airway cilia.', u"Zika virus (ZIKV) is an emerging flavivirus typically causing a dengue-like febrile illness, but neurological complications, such as microcephaly in newborns, have potentially been linked to this viral infection. We established a panel of in vitro assays to allow the identification of ZIKV inhibitors and demonstrate that the viral polymerase inhibitor 7-deaza-2'-C-methyladenosine (7DMA) efficiently inhibits replication. Infection of AG129 (IFN-\u03b1/\u03b2 and IFN-\u03b3 receptor knock-21 out) mice with ZIKV resulted in acute neutrophilic encephalitis with viral antigens accumulating in neurons of the brain and spinal cord. Additionally, high levels of viral RNA were detected in the spleen, liver and kidney, and levels of IFN-\u03b3 and IL-18 were systematically increased in serum of ZIKV-infected mice. Interestingly, the virus was also detected in testicles of infected mice. In line with its in vitro anti-ZIKV activity, 7DMA reduced viremia and delayed virus-induced morbidity and mortality in infected mice, which also validates this small animal model to assess the in vivo efficacy of novel ZIKV inhibitors. Since AG129 mice can generate an antibody response, and have been used in dengue vaccine studies, the model can also be used to assess the efficacy of ZIKV vaccines.", u'Unbiased genetic approaches have a unique ability to identify novel genes associated with specific biological pathways. Thanks to next generation sequencing, forward genetic strategies can be expanded into a wider range of model organisms. The formation of secretory granules, called mucocysts, in the ciliate Tetrahymena thermophila relies in part on ancestral lysosomal sorting machinery but is also likely to involve novel factors. In prior work, multiple strains with defect in mucocyst biogenesis were generated by nitrosoguanidine mutagenesis, and characterized using genetic and cell biological approaches, but the genetic lesions themselves were unknown.  Here, we show that analyzing one such mutant by whole genome sequencing reveals a novel factor in mucocyst formation.  Strain UC620 has both morphological and biochemical defects in mucocyst maturation, a process analogous to dense core granule maturation in animals. Illumina sequencing of a pool of UC620 F2 clones identified a missense mutation in a novel gene called MMA1 (Mucocyst maturation).  The defects in UC620 were rescued by expression of a wildtype copy of MMA1, and disruption of MMA1 in an otherwise wildtype strain generated a phenocopy of UC620. The product of MMA1, characterized as a CFP-tagged copy, encodes a large soluble cytosolic protein. A small fraction of Mma1p-CFP is pelletable, which may reflect association with endosomes. The gene has no identifiable homologs except in other Tetrahymena species, and therefore represents an evolutionarily recent innovation that is required for granule maturation.', u'CRISPR-Cas9 genome editing enables high-resolution detection of genetic vulnerabilities of cancer cells. We conducted a genome-wide CRISPR-Cas9 screen in RNF43 mutant pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) cells, which rely on Wnt signaling for proliferation, and discovered a unique requirement for a WNT7B-FZD5 signaling circuit. Our results highlight an underappreciated level of functional specificity at the ligand-receptor level. We derived a panel of recombinant antibodies that reports the expression of nine out of ten human Frizzled receptors and confirm that WNT7B-FZD5 functional specificity cannot be explained by protein expression patterns. We developed two human antibodies that target FZD5 and robustly inhibited the growth of RNF43 mutant PDAC cells grown in vitro and as xenografts, providing strong orthogonal support for the functional specificity observed genetically. Proliferation of a patient-derived PDAC cell line harboring a RNF43 variant previously associated with PDAC was also selectively inhibited by the FZD5 antibodies, further demonstrating their use as a potential targeted therapy.', u'We examined the biogeography of Streptomyces at regional spatial scales to identify factors that govern patterns of microbial diversity within the genus. Streptomyces are spore forming filamentous bacteria which are widespread in soil and a major source of antibiotics. We applied population genetic approaches to analyze geographic and genetic population structure in six phylogroups of Streptomyces identified from a geographically explicit culture collection. Streptomyces strains were isolated from soils associated with perennial grass habitats sampled across a spatial scale of more than 6,000 km. We observed that Streptomyces population structure varies at regional spatial scales and that allelic diversity correlates with geographic distance. In addition, patterns of allelic diversity and gene flow are defined by latitude. Finally, we found that nucleotide diversity within phylogroups is negatively correlated with latitude. These results indicate that phylogroup diversification is constrained by dispersal limitation at regional spatial scales. We hypothesize that historical demographic processes have influenced the contemporary biogeography of Streptomyces.', u'Fibrillogenesis, the production or development of protein fibers, has been linked to protein folding diseases. The progress curve of fibrils or aggregates typically takes on a sigmoidal shape with a lag phase, a rapid growth phase, and a final plateau regime. The study of the lag phase and the estimation of its critical timescale provide insight into the factors regulating the fibrillation process. However, methods to estimate a quantitative expression for the lag time rely on empirical expressions, which cannot connect the lag time to kinetic parameters associated with the reaction mechanisms of protein fibrillation. Here we introduce an approach for the estimation of the lag time using the governing rate equations of the elementary reactions of a subsequent monomer addition model for protein fibrillation as a case study. We show that the lag time is given by the sum of the critical timescales for each fibril intermediate in the subsequent monomer addition mechanism and therefore reveals causal connectivity between intermediate species. Furthermore, we find that protein fibrillation can exhibit a lag phase without a nucleation process. Our approach could be valuable for investigating the effects of intrinsic and extrinsic factors to the protein fibrillation reaction mechanism and provides physicochemical insights into parameters regulating the lag phase.', u'Flowers show an unrivalled diversity as reproductive organs but the evolutionary forces underlying this diversity are still poorly understood. In animal-pollinated species, flower shape is fashioned by selection imposed by pollinators, which is expected to vary according to specific guilds of effective pollinators. Using the Antillean subtribe Gesneriinae (Gesneriaceae), we tested the hypothesis that the corolla shapes of specialists effectively pollinated by one functional type of pollinator have maintained more similar shapes through time due to stronger selection constraints than those of species effectively pollinated by more than one functional type of pollinator. Using geometric morphometrics, we show that corolla shape can differentiate hummingbird specialists, bat specialists, and species with a mixed-pollination strategy (pollinated by hummingbirds, bats, and occasionally insects). Then, using evolutionary models, we show that the corolla shape of hummingbird specialists has been evolving under balancing selection, whereas a neutral model of evolution was favoured for mixed-pollination species. This suggests that the corolla shape of pollination specialists remains more similar over macro-evolutionary periods of time to remain fitted to their pollinators. In contrast, corollas of species with a mixed-pollination and thus more generalized strategy vary more, potentially because they experience effective pollination over a wider corolla shape space.', u'The field of molecular evolution started with the alignment of a few protein sequences in the early 1960s. Among the first results found, the genetic equidistance result has turned out to be the most unexpected. It directly inspired the ad hoc universal molecular clock hypothesis that in turn inspired the neutral theory. Unfortunately, however, what is only a maximum distance phenomenon was mistakenly transformed into a mutation rate phenomenon and became known as such. Previous work studied a small set of selected proteins. We have performed proteome wide studies of 7 different sets of proteomes involving a total of 15 species. All 7 sets showed that within each set of 3 species the least complex species is approximately equidistant in average proteome wide identity to the two more complex ones. Thus, the genetic equidistance result is a universal phenomenon of maximum distance. There is a reality of constant albeit stepwise or discontinuous increase in complexity during evolution, the rate of which is what the original molecular clock hypothesis is really about. These results provide additional lines of evidence for the recently proposed maximum genetic diversity (MGD) hypothesis.', u'Understanding living systems requires an in depth knowledge of the signaling networks that drive cellular homeostasis, regulate intercellular communication and contribute to cell fates during development. Several resources exist to provide high-throughput datasets or manually curated interaction information from human or invertebrate model organisms. We previously developed SignaLink, a uniformly curated, multi-layered signaling resource containing information for human and for the model organisms nematode Caenorhabditis elegans and fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster. Until now, the use of the SignaLink database for zebrafish pathway analysis was limited. To overcome this limitation we created SignaFish (http://signafish.org), a fish-specific signaling resource, built using the concept of SignaLink. SignaFish contains more than 200 curation based signaling interactions, 132 further interactions listed in other resources, and it also lists potential miRNA based regulatory connections for 7 major signaling pathways. From the SignaFish website, users can reach other web resources, such as ZFIN. SignaFish provides signaling or signaling-related interactions that can be examined for each gene, or downloaded for each signaling pathway. We believe that the SignaFish resource will serve as a novel navigating point for experimental design and evaluation for the zebrafish community and for researchers focusing on non-model fish species, such as cyclids.', u'Current high-sensitivity cancer screening methods suffer from false positive rates that lead to numerous unnecessary procedures and questionable public health benefit overall. Detection of circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) has the potential to transform cancer screening. Thus far, nearly all ctDNA studies have focused on detection of tumor-specific point mutations. However, ctDNA point mutation detection methods developed to date lack either the scope or sensitivity necessary to be useful for cancer screening, due to the extremely low (<1%) ctDNA fraction derived from early stage tumors. We suggest that tumor-derived copy number variant (CNV) detection is theoretically a superior means of ctDNA-based cancer screening for many tumor types, given that, relative to point mutations, each individual tumor CNV contributes a much larger number of ctDNA fragments to the overall pool of circulating DNA. Here we perform an in silico assessment of the potential for ctDNA CNV-based cancer screening across many common cancers.', u'The capacity for selective attention appears to be required for any animal responding to an environment containing multiple objects, although this has been difficult to study in smaller animals such as insects. Clear operational characteristics of attention however make study of this crucial brain function accessible to any animal model. Whereas earlier approaches have relied on freely behaving paradigms placed in an ecologically relevant context, recent tethered preparations have focused on brain imaging and electrophysiology in virtual reality environments. Insight into brain activity during attention-like behavior has revealed key elements of attention in the insect brain. Surprisingly, a variety of brain structures appear to be involved, suggesting that even in the smallest brains attention might involve widespread coordination of neural activity.', u'Natural products from microbes have provided humans with beneficial antibiotics for millennia. However, a decline in the pace of antibiotic discovery exerts pressure on human health as antibiotic resistance spreads, a challenge that may better faced by unveiling chemical diversity produced by microbes. Current microbial genome mining approaches have revitalized research into antibiotics, but the empirical nature of these methods limits the chemical space that is explored. \nHere, we address the problem of finding novel pathways by incorporating evolutionary principles into genome mining. We recapitulated the evolutionary history of twenty-three enzyme families previously uninvestigated in the context of natural product biosynthesis in Actinobacteria, the most proficient producers of natural products. Our genome evolutionary analyses where based on the assumption that expanded -repurposed enzyme families- from central metabolism, occur frequently and thus have the potential to catalyze new conversions in the context of natural products biosynthesis. Our analyses led to the discovery of biosynthetic gene clusters coding for hidden chemical diversity, as validated by comparing our predictions with those from state-of-the-art genome mining tools; as well as experimentally demonstrating the existence of a biosynthetic pathway for arseno-organic metabolites in Streptomyces coelicolor and Streptomyces lividans, using gene knockout and metabolite profile combined strategy.\nAs our approach does not rely solely on sequence similarity searches of previously identified biosynthetic enzymes, these results establish the basis for the development of an evolutionary-driven genome mining tool that complements current platforms. We anticipate that by doing so real chemical dark matter will be unveiled.', u'Genetic and proteomic analysis of human tumor samples can provide an important compliment to information obtained from model systems.  Here we examined protein and gene expression from the Cancer Genome and Proteome Atlases (TCGA and TCPA) to characterize proteins and protein-coding genes that are selectively upregulated in KRAS-mutant lung adenocarcinomas. Phosphoprotein activation of several Raf/MAPK signaling components was considerably stronger in KRAS-mutants than any other group of tumors.  However, both KRAS-mutants and tumors with other activating mutations in the Raf/MAPK pathway showed comparable activation of mTOR. Co-occurring mutations in KRAS-mutants were associated with differential activation of PDK1 and PKC-alpha.  Genes showing strong activation in RNA-seq data included negative regulators of Raf/MAPK signaling along with potential oncogenic effectors including activators of Rac and Rho proteins and the receptor protein-tyrosine phosphatase gene PTPRE. These results corroborate Raf/MAPK signaling as an important therapeutic target in KRAS-mutant lung adenocarcinomas and pinpoint new potential targets.', u'Genetically encoded calcium indicators (GECIs) allow measurement of activity in large populations of neurons and in small neuronal compartments, over times of milliseconds to months. Although GFP-based GECIs are widely used for in vivo neurophysiology, GECIs with red-shifted excitation and emission spectra have advantages for in vivo imaging because of reduced scattering and absorption in tissue, and a consequent reduction in phototoxicity. However, current red GECIs are inferior to the state-of-the-art GFP-based GCaMP6 indicators for detecting and quantifying neural activity. Here we present improved red GECIs based on mRuby (jRCaMP1a, b) and mApple (jRGECO1a), with sensitivity comparable to GCaMP6. We characterized the performance of the new red GECIs in cultured neurons and in mouse, Drosophila, zebrafish and C. elegans in vivo. Red GECIs facilitate deep-tissue imaging, dual-color imaging together with GFP-based reporters, and the use of optogenetics in combination with calcium imaging.', u"A crucial component of major transitions theory is that after the transition, adaptation occurs primarily at the level of the new, higher-level unit. For collective-level adaptations to occur, though, collective-level traits must be heritable. Since collective-level traits are functions of lower-level traits, collective-level heritability is related to particle-level heritability. However, the nature of this relationship has rarely been explored in the context of major transitions. We examine relationships between particle-level heritability and collective-level heritability for several functions that express collective-level traits in terms of particle-level traits. When this relationship is linear, the heritability of a collective-level trait is never less than that of the corresponding particle-level trait and is higher under most conditions. For more complicated functions, collective-level heritability is higher under most conditions, but can be lower when the function relating particle to cell-level traits is sensitive to small fluctuations in the state of the particles within the collective. Rather than being an impediment to major transitions, we show that collective-level heritability superior to that of the lower-level units can often arise 'for free', simply as a byproduct of collective formation.", u'We present a Bayesian smoothing approach to detect differentially methylated regions from whole-genome bisulfite sequencing (WGBS) data. The method exploits the Integrated Nested Laplace Approximation for fast and accurate model fitting, an alternative to computationally expensive sampling-based methods. We demonstrate the approach by extensive simulation studies and WGBS of macrophages in experimental glomerulonephritis, revealing differential Ifitm3 promoter methylation in glomerulonephritis, supported by differential transcription factor binding and Ifitm3 gene expression.', u'Background: High alcohol consumption is a major cause of morbidity, yet alcohol is associated with both favourable and adverse effects on cardiometabolic risk markers. We aimed to characterize the associations of usual alcohol consumption with a comprehensive systemic metabolite profile in young adults. \nMethods: Cross-sectional associations of alcohol intake with 86 metabolic measures were assessed for 9778 individuals from three population-based cohorts from Finland (age 24 45 years, 52% women). Metabolic changes associated with change in alcohol intake during 6-year follow-up were further examined for 1466 individuals. Alcohol intake was assessed by questionnaires. Circulating lipids, fatty acids and metabolites were quantified by high-throughput nuclear magnetic resonance metabolomics and biochemical assays.\nResults: Increased alcohol intake was associated with cardiometabolic risk markers across multiple metabolic pathways, including higher lipid concentrations in HDL subclasses and smaller LDL particle size, increased proportions of monounsaturated fatty acids and decreased proportion of omega-6 fatty acids, lower concentrations of glutamine and citrate (P<0.001 for 56 metabolic measures). Many metabolic biomarkers displayed U-shaped associations with alcohol consumption. Results were coherent for men and women, consistent across the three cohorts, and similar if adjusting for body mass index, smoking and physical activity. The metabolic changes accompanying change in alcohol intake during follow-up resembled the cross-sectional association pattern (R2=0.83, slope=0.72\xb10.04). \nConclusions: Alcohol consumption is associated with a complex metabolic signature, including aberrations in multiple biomarkers for elevated cardiometabolic risk. The metabolic signature tracks with long-term changes in alcohol consumption. These results elucidate the double-edged effects of alcohol on cardiovascular risk.', u'No two ovaries are alike, and indeed, the same ovary can change its architecture from day to day. This is because ovarian follicles are present in different numbers, positions, and states of maturation throughout reproductive life. All possible developmental states of follicles can be represented at any time, along with follicles that have committed to death (termed follicle atresia). Static histological and whole-mount imaging approaches allow snapshots of what is occurring within ovaries, but our views of dynamic follicle growth and death have been limited to these tools. We present a simple model of the complex mouse ovary, called ``\u014cvSim". Simulating the growth and fate of each of the approximately 3000 postpubertal mouse ovarian follicles over time, \u014cvSim produces follicle numbers that closely match numbers predicted by histomorphometric and imaging analyses (e.g., follicle counts) and data on ovulatory rates. \u014cvSim relies on the specification of three key parameters or inputs to the simulation: the probability that individual primordial follicles can growth activate daily, the fraction of granulosa cells that survive as follicles grow, and the probability that individual follicles can commit to atresia daily. When the probability of daily growth activation is near 0.005, granulosa cell survival is 0.88, and the probability of atresia for all follicles is near 0.1, \u014cvSim simulates follicle growth in a fashion that closely matches biological measurements. \u014cvSim thus offers a starting platform to simulate mammalian ovaries and to explore factors that might impact follicle development and global organ function.', u'Current medical records are rigid with regards to emerging big biomedical data. Examples of poorly integrated big data that already exist in clinical practice include whole genome sequencing and wearable sensors for real time monitoring. Genome sequencing enables conventional diagnostic interrogation and forms the fundamental baseline for precision health throughout a patients lifetime. Mobile sensors enable tailored monitoring regimes for both reducing risk through precision health interventions and acute condition surveillance. In order to address the absence of these data in the Electronic Medical Record (EMR), we worked with SAP Healthcare to re-envision a modern medical record with these components. The pilot project used 37 patient families with complex medical records, whole genome sequencing and some level of wearable monitoring. Core functionality included patient timelines with integrated text analytics, personalized genomic curation and wearable alerts. The current phase is being rolled out to over 1500 patients in clinics across the hospital system. While fundamentally research, we believe this proof of principle platform is the first of its kind and represents the future of data driven clinical medicine.', u'Purpose: The study aims to develop a Genetic Risk Score (GRS) for the prediction of Type 2 Diabetes (T2D) that could be used for risk assessment in general population. \nMethods: Using the results of genome-wide association studies, we develop a doubly-weighted GRS for the prediction of T2D risk, aiming to capture the effect of 1000 single nucleotide polymorphisms.  The GRS is evaluated in the Estonian Biobank cohort (n=10273), analysing its effect on prevalent and incident T2D, while adjusting for other predictors.  We assessed the effect of GRS on all-cause and cardiovascular mortality and its association with other T2D risk factors, and conducted the reclassification analysis.\nResults: The adjusted hazard for incident T2D is 1.90 (95% CI 1.48, 2.44) times higher and for cardiovascular mortality 1.27 (95% CI 1.10, 1.46) times higher in the highest GRS quintile compared to the rest of the cohort. No significant association between BMI and GRS is found in T2D-free individuals. Adding GRS to the prediction model for 5-year T2D risks results in continuous Net Reclassification Improvement of 0.26 (95% CI 0.15, 0.38).\nConclusion: The proposed GRS would considerably improve the accuracy of T2D risk prediction when added to the set of predictors used so far.  \n\nKeywords: genetic risk score, Type 2 Diabetes, risk prediction, genetic risk, precision medicine', u'Telomere length is regulated around an equilibrium set point. Telomeres shorten during replication and are lengthened by telomerase. Disruption of the length equilibrium leads to disease, thus it is important to understand the mechanisms that regulate length at the molecular level. The prevailing protein counting model for regulating telomerase access to elongate the telomere does not explain accumulating evidence of a role of DNA replication in telomere length regulation. Here I present an alternative model: the replication fork model that can explain how passage of a replication fork and regulation of origin firing affect telomere length.', u'In response to DNA damage a cell can be forced to permanently exit the cell cycle and become senescent. Senescence provides an early barrier against tumor development by preventing proliferation of cells with damaged DNA. By studying single cells, we show that Cdk activity is retained after DNA damage until terminal cell cycle exit. The low level of Cdk activity not only allows cell cycle progression, but also forces cell cycle exit at a decision point in G2 phase. We find that Cdk activity stimulates p21 production, leading to nuclear sequestration of Cyclin B1, subsequent APC/CCdh1-dependent degradation of mitotic inducers and induction of senescence. We suggest that the same activity that triggers mitosis in an unperturbed cell cycle drives senescence in the presence of DNA damage, ensuring a robust response when most needed.', u'The orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) has been implicated in both the representation of "state", in studies of reinforcement learning and decision making, and also in the representation of "schemas", in studies of episodic memory. Both of these cognitive constructs require a similar inference about the underlying situation or "latent cause" that generates our observations at any given time. The statistically optimal solution to this inference problem is to use Bayes rule to compute a posterior probability distribution over latent causes. To test whether such a posterior probability distribution is represented in the OFC, we tasked human participants with inferring a probability distribution over four possible latent causes, based on their observations. Using fMRI pattern similarity analyses, we found that BOLD activity in OFC is best explained as representing the (log-transformed) posterior distribution over latent causes. Furthermore, this pattern explained OFC activity better than other task-relevant alternatives such as the most probable latent cause, the most recent observation, or the uncertainty over latent causes.', u'In fifteen years, Synthetic Biology (SB) has moved from proof-of-concept designs to several flagship achievements. Standardisation efforts are still under way, basic engineering concepts such as modularity and orthogonality are still controversial in biology, and making predictions from computer models is still unreliable. A deep characterization in the pattern of re-use of biological blocks in SB has not been attempted to date. We have compared the topological organisation of two different technological networks, one associated to a standard, large-scale software repository and the second provided by the Registry of Standard Biological Parts (RSBP). Our results strongly suggest that software engineering, and not industrial engineering, is the closest complex system to SB. In both cases, combining standard or quasi-standard components assembly with tinkering may not be at odds with success.', u'Impaired interactions of Tau protein with microtubules (MT) and Tau misfolding play a key role in Alzheimer disease (AD) and other neurodegenerative diseases collectively named Tauopathies. However, little is known about the molecular conformational changes that underlie Tau misfolding and aggregation in pathological conditions, due to the difficulty of studying structural aspects of this intrinsically unfolded protein, particularly in the context of living cells. \nHere we developed a new Conformational-Sensitive Tau sensor (CST), based on human Tau full length protein, to investigate the changes in 3D conformation and aggregation state of Tau upon modulation of its interactions with MTs in living cells, in physiological and pathological conditions.  After showing that the CST fully preserves functional Tau activities in living cells, we demonstrated that MT-bound Tau displays a loop-like conformation, while soluble Tau assumes a relaxed conformation. \nThe imaging readout based on CST allowed to discover new conformational properties of full length Tau in living cells, when challenged with Alzheimer-relevant  seeds from different sources, and to learn about different ways to induce the self-aggregation of full length Tau in cells.  Furthermore, it allowed to investigate the contribution to the pathology of point mutations known to alter Tau/MTs interaction.', u'Four recent papers from our group exploiting the power of electron cryotomography to produce 3-D reconstructions of intact cells in a near-native state have led to the proposal that an ancient sporulation-like event gave rise to the second membrane in diderm bacteria. Here we review the images of sporulating monoderm and diderm cells which show how sporulation leads to diderm cells. We also review the images of Gram-negative and Gram-positive cell walls that show they are more closely related than previously thought, and explain how this provides critical support for the hypothesis. Mapping the distribution of cell envelope architectures onto the most recent phylogenetic tree of life then leads to the conclusion that the diderm cell plan, and therefore the sporulation-like event that gave rise to it, must be very ancient. One explanation for the biogeologic record is that during the cataclysmic transitions of early Earth, cellular evolution may have gone through a bottleneck where only spores survived (LUCA was a spore).', u'Understanding both the role of selection in driving phenotypic change and its underlying genetic basis remain major challenges in evolutionary biology. Here we focus on a classic system of local adaptation in the North American deer mouse, Peromyscus maniculatus, which occupies two main habitat types, prairie and forest. Using historical collections we demonstrate that forest-dwelling mice have longer tails than those from non-forested habitats, even when we account for individual and population relatedness. Based on genome-wide SNP capture data, we find that mice from forested habitats in the eastern and western parts of their range form separate clades, suggesting that increased tail length evolved independently from a short-tailed ancestor. Two major changes in skeletal morphology can give rise to longer tails--increased number and increased length of vertebrae--and we find that forest mice in the east and west have both more and longer caudal vertebrae, but not trunk vertebrae, than nearby prairie forms. Using a second-generation intercross between a prairie and forest pair, we show that the number and length of caudal vertebrae are not correlated in this recombinant population, suggesting that variation in these traits is controlled by separate genetic loci. Together, these results demonstrate convergent evolution of the long-tailed forest phenotype through multiple, distinct genetic mechanisms (controlling vertebral length and vertebral number), thus suggesting that these morphological changes--either independently or together--are adaptive.', u'Understanding the potential of animals to immediately respond to changing temperatures is imperative for predicting the effects of climate change on biodiversity. Ectothermic animals, such as insects, use behavioural thermoregulation to keep their body temperature within suitable limits. It may be particularly important at warm margins of species occurrence, where populations are sensitive to increasing air temperatures. In the field, we studied thermal requirements and behavioural thermoregulation in low-altitude populations of the Satyrinae butterflies Erebia aethiops, E. euryale and E. medusa. We compared the relationship of individual body temperature with air and microhabitat temperatures for the low-altitude Erebia species to our data on seven mountain species, including a high-altitude population of E. euryale, studied in the Alps. We found that the grassland butterfly E. medusa was well adapted to the warm lowland climate and it was active under the highest air temperatures and kept the highest body temperature of all species. Contrarily, the woodland species, E. aethiops and a low-altitude population of E. euryale, kept lower body temperatures and did not search for warm microclimates as much as other species. Furthermore, temperature-dependence of daily activities also differed between the three low-altitude and the mountain species. Lastly, the different responses to ambient temperature between the low- and high-altitude populations of E. euryale suggest possible local adaptations to different climates. We highlight the importance of habitat heterogeneity for long-term species survival, because it is expected to buffer climate change consequences by providing a variety of microclimates, which can be actively explored by adults. Alpine species can take advantage of warm microclimates, while low-altitude grassland species may retreat to colder microhabitats to escape heat, if needed. However, we conclude that lowland populations of woodland species may be more severely threatened by climate warming because of the unavailability of relatively colder microclimates.', u'MicroRNAs are endogenous ~23nt RNAs which regulate mRNA targets mainly through perfect pairing with their seed region (positions 2-7). Several instances of bulge UTR sequence can also be recognized by miRNA as their target. But such non-Watson-Crick base pairings are incompletely understood. We found a group of miRNAs which had very few conservative targets while potentially having a subclass of bulge message RNA targets. Compared with the canonical target, these bulge targets had a weaker negative correlation with the miRNA expression, and either were downregulated in the miRNA overexpression experiment or upregulated in the miRNA knock-down experiment.', u'In this work we propose that a disinhibitory circuit motif, which recently gained experimental support, can instantiate flexible routing of information flow along selective pathways in a complex system of cortical areas according to behavioral demands (pathway-specific gating). We developed a network model of pyramidal neurons and three classes of interneurons, with connection probabilities constrained by data.  If distinct input pathways cluster on separate dendritic branches of pyramidal neurons, then a pathway can be gated-on by disinhibiting targeted dendrites. We show that this branch-specific disinhibition can be achieved despite dense interneuronal connectivity, even under the assumption of random connections. We found clustering of input pathways on dendrites can emerge through synaptic plasticity regulated by disinhibition. This gating mechanism in a neural circuit is further demonstrated by performing a context-dependent decision-making task. Our findings suggest a microcircuit architecture that harnesses dendritic computation and diverse inhibitory neuron types to subserve cognitive flexibility.', u'Drosophila melanogaster is an important laboratory model for studies of antiviral immunity in invertebrates, and Drosophila species provide a valuable system to study virus host range and host switching. Here we use metagenomic RNA sequencing of ca. 1400 adult flies to discover 25 new RNA viruses associated with six different drosophilid hosts in the wild. We also provide a comprehensive listing of viruses previously reported from the Drosophilidae. The new viruses include Iflaviruses, Rhabdoviruses, Nodaviruses, and Reoviruses, and members of unclassified lineages distantly related to Negeviruses, Sobemoviruses and Poleroviruses, Flaviviridae, and Tombusviridae. Among these are close relatives of Drosophila X virus and Flock House Virus, which we find in association with wild Drosophila immigrans. These two viruses are widely used in experimental studies, but have not been reported to naturally infect Drosophila. Although we detect no new DNA viruses, in D. immigrans and D. obscura we identify sequences almost identical to Armadillidium vulgare Iridescent Virus (Invertebrate Iridescent Virus 31), bringing the total number of DNA viruses found in the Drosophilidae to three', u'The CRISPR/Cas9 system has emerged as an important tool for a wide variety of genome engineering applications, including reverse genetic screens. Previously, we described the implementation of the CRISPR/Cas9 system to induce tissue-specific mutations at targeted locations in the genome of the sea squirt Ciona (STOLFI et al. 2014). In the present study, we designed 83 single guide RNA (sgRNA) vectors targeting 23 genes expressed in the cardiopharyngeal progenitors and surrounding tissues in the Ciona embryo and measured their mutagenesis efficacy rates by massively parallel indel detection at the targeted loci using highthroughput sequencing. We show that the combined activity of two highly active sgRNAs allows us to generate large (>3 kbp) deletions of intervening genomic DNA in somatic cells of electroporated embryos, permitting tissue-specific gene knockouts. Additionally, we employed L1-regularized regression modeling to develop an optimal sgRNA design algorithm (TuniCUT), based on correlations between target sequence features and mutagenesis rates. Using this algorithm, we have predicted mutagenesis rates for sgRNAs targeting all 4,853,589 sites in the Ciona genome, which we have compiled into a "CRISPR/Cas9-induced Ciona Knock-Out" (Ci2KO) sgRNA sequence library. Finally, we describe a new method for the assembly of sgRNA expression cassettes using a simple one-step overlap PCR (OSO-PCR) protocol. These cassettes can be electroporated directly into Ciona embryos as unpurified PCR products to drive sgRNA expression, bypassing the need for time-consuming cloning and plasmid DNA preparations. We anticipate that this method will be used in combination with genome-wide sgRNA predictions to systematically investigate tissue-specific gene functions in Ciona.', u'Neurodevelopmental disorders begin with the emergence of inappropriate synaptic connectivity early in life, yet how the sustained disruption of experience-dependent plasticity aggravates symptoms in adulthood is unclear. Here we used pup retrieval learning to assay adult cortical plasticity in a female mouse model of Rett syndrome (MeCP2het). We show that auditory cortical plasticity and retrieval learning are impaired in MeCP2het. Specifically, normal MECP2 expression in the adult auditory cortex is required for efficient retrieval learning. In wild-type mice, cohabitation with a mother and her pups triggered transient changes to auditory cortical inhibitory networks, including elevated levels of the GABA-synthesizing enzyme GAD67. However, MeCP2het further exhibited increased expression of parvalbumin (PV) and perineuronal nets (PNNs), events thought to suppress plasticity at the closure of critical periods and in adult learning. Averting these events with genetic and pharmacological manipulations of the GABAergic network restored retrieval behavior. We propose that adult retrieval learning triggers a transient episode of inhibitory plasticity in the auditory cortex that is dysregulated in MeCP2het. This window of heightened sensitivity to social sensory cues reveals a role of MeCP2 mutations in facilitating adult plasticity that is distinct from their effects on early development.', u'Drosophila larval crawling is an attractive system to study patterned motor output at the level of animal behavior. Larval crawling consists of waves of muscle contractions generating forward or reverse locomotion. In addition, larvae undergo additional behaviors including head casts, turning, and feeding. It is likely that some neurons are used in all these behaviors (e.g. motor neurons), but the identity (or even existence) of neurons dedicated to specific aspects of behavior is unclear. To identify neurons that regulate specific aspects of larval locomotion, we performed a genetic screen to identify neurons that, when activated, could elicit distinct motor programs. We used 165 Janelia CRM-Gal4 lines chosen for sparse neuronal expression to express the\nwarmth-inducible neuronal activator TrpA1 and screened for locomotor defects. The primary screen measured forward locomotion velocity, and we identified 63 lines that had locomotion velocities significantly slower than controls following TrpA1 activation (28oC). A secondary screen was performed on these lines, revealing multiple discrete behavioral phenotypes including\nslow forward locomotion, excessive reverse locomotion, excessive turning, excessive feeding, immobile, rigid paralysis, and delayed paralysis. While many of the Gal4 lines had motor, sensory, or muscle expression that may account for some or all of the phenotype, some lines showed specific expression in a sparse pattern of interneurons. Our results show that distinct motor programs utilize distinct subsets of interneurons, and provide an entry point for characterizing interneurons governing different elements of the larval motor program.', u'Identifying active cis-regulatory regions in the human genome is critical for  understanding gene regulation and assessing the impact of genetic variation on phenotype.  Based on rich data resources such as the Encyclopedia of DNA Elements (ENCODE) and the Functional Annotation of the Mammalian Genome (FANTOM) projects, we introduce DECRES, the first supervised deep learning approach for the identification of enhancer and promoter regions in the human genome. Due to their ability to discover patterns in large and complex data, the introduction of deep learning methods enables a significant advance in our knowledge of the genomic locations of cis-regulatory regions. Using models for well-characterized cell lines, we identify key experimental features that contribute to the predictive performance. Applying  DECRES, we delineate locations of 300,000 candidate enhancers genome wide (6.8% of the genome, of which 40,000 are supported by  bidirectional transcription data) and 26,000 candidate promoters (0.6% of the genome).', u'A number of methods have been developed to use genetic sequence data to identify and delineate species. Some methods are based on heuristics, such as DNA barcoding which is based on a sequence-distance threshold, while others use Bayesian model comparison under the multispecies coalescent model.  Here we use mathematical analysis and computer simulation to demonstrate large differences in statistical performance of species identification between DNA barcoding and Bayesian inference under the multispecies coalescent model as implemented in the bpp program.  We show that a fixed genetic-distance threshold as used in DNA barcoding is problematic for delimiting species, even if the threshold is "optimized", because different species have different population sizes and different divergence times, and therefore display different amounts of intra-species versus inter-species variation.  In contrast, bpp can reliably delimit species in such situations with only one locus and rarely supports a wrong assignment with high posterior probability.  While under-sampling or rare specimens may pose problems for heuristic methods, bpp can delimit species with high power when multi-locus data are used, even if the species is represented by a single specimen.  Finally we demonstrate that bpp may be powerful for delimiting cryptic species using specimens that are misidentified as a single species in the barcoding library.', u'Cell fate choice and commitment of multipotent progenitor cells to a differentiated lineage requires broad changes of their gene expression profile. However, how progenitor cells overcome the stability of their robust gene expression configuration (attractor) and exit their state remains elusive. Here we show that commitment of blood progenitor cells to the erythroid or the myeloid lineage is preceded by the destabilization of their high-dimensional attractor state and that cells undergo a critical state transition. Single-cell resolution analysis of gene expression in populations of differentiating cells affords a new quantitative index for predicting critical transitions in a high-dimensional state space: decrease of correlation between cells with concomitant increase of correlation between genes as cells approach a tipping point.  The detection of rebellious cells which enter the fate opposite to the one intended corroborates the model of preceding destabilization of the progenitor state. Thus, early-warning signals associated with critical transitions can be detected in statistical ensembles of high-dimensional systems, offering a formal tool for analyzing molecular profiles of single-cell that goes beyond computational pattern recognition but is based on dynamical systems theory and can predict impending major shifts in cell populations in development and disease.', u'Several recent public health crises have shown that the surveillance of zoonotic agents in wildlife is important to prevent pandemic risks. Rodents are intermediate hosts for numerous zoonotic bacteria. High-throughput sequencing (HTS) technologies are very useful for the detection and surveillance of zoonotic bacteria, but rigorous experimental processes are required for the use of these cheap and effective tools in such epidemiological contexts. In particular, HTS introduces biases into the raw dataset that might lead to incorrect interpretations. We describe here a procedure for cleaning data before estimating reliable biological parameters, such as bacterial positivity, prevalence and coinfection, by 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing on the MiSeq platform. This procedure, applied to 711 commensal rodents collected from 24 villages in Senegal, Africa, detected several emerging bacterial genera, some in high prevalence, while never before reported for West Africa. This study constitutes a step towards the use of HTS to improve our understanding of the risk of zoonotic disease transmission posed by wildlife, by providing a new strategy for the use of HTS platforms to monitor both bacterial diversity and infection dynamics in wildlife. In the future, this approach could be adapted for the monitoring of other microbes such as protists, fungi, and even viruses.', u"The hippocampal and striatal memory systems operate independently and in parallel in supporting spatial and response learning, respectively, when animals are explicitly trained in one task. Here, we investigated whether this principle continues to hold when animals are concurrently trained in two types of tasks. Rats were trained on a plus maze in either a spatial navigation or a cue response task (individual training), while a third set of rats acquired both (concurrent training). Subsequently, the rats underwent either sham surgery or neurotoxic lesions of the hippocampus (HPC), medial dorsal striatum (DSM) or lateral dorsal striatum (DSL), followed by retention testing. Finally, rats in the individual training condition also acquired the novel 'other' task. When rats learned one task, HPC and DSL selectively supported spatial navigation cue response, respectively. However, when rats learned both tasks, HPC and DSL additionally supported the behavior incongruent with the processing style of the corresponding memory system. DSM significantly contributed to performance regardless of task or training procedure. Experience with the cue response task facilitated subsequent spatial learning, while experience with spatial navigation delayed both simultaneous and subsequent response learning. These findings suggest that multiple principles govern the interactions among memory systems.", u'Two-pore channels (TPCs) comprise a subfamily (TPC1-3) of eukaryotic voltage- and ligand-gated cation channels that contain two non-equivalent tandem pore-forming subunits that then dimerize to form quasi-tetramers. Found in vacuolar or endolysosomal membranes, they regulate the conductance of sodium and calcium ions, intravesicular pH, trafficking and excitability. TPCs are activated by a decrease in transmembrane potential, an increase in cytosolic calcium concentrations, and inhibited by luminal low pH, and calcium, and regulated by phosphorylation,. We report the crystal structure of TPC1 from Arabidopsis thaliana (TPC1) at 2.8x4.0x3.3 angstrom resolution as a basis for understanding ion permeation, channel activation, the location of voltage-sensing domains, and regulatory ion-binding sites. We determined sites of phosphorylation in the N-terminal and C-terminal domains that are positioned to allosterically modulate cytoplasmic Ca2+-activation. One of the two voltage sensing domains (VSDII) encodes voltage sensitivity and inhibition by lumenal Ca2+ and adopts a conformation distinct from the activated state observed in structures of other voltage-gated ion channels. The structure shows that potent pharmacophore trans-NED19 allosterically acts by clamping the pore domains to VSDII. In animals NED19 prevents infection by Ebola virus and Filoviruses presumably by altering their fusion with the endolysosome, and delivery of their contents into the cytoplasm.', u'Background: In the context of a master level programming practical at the computer science department of the Karlsruhe Institute of Technology, we developed and make available an open-source code for testing all 203 possible nucleotide substitution models in the Maximum Likelihood (ML) setting under the common Akaike, corrected Akaike, and Bayesian information criteria. We address the question if model selection matters topologically, that is, if conducting ML inferences under the optimal, instead of a standard General Time Reversible model, yields different tree topologies. We also assess, to which degree models selected and trees inferred under the three standard criteria (AIC, AICc, BIC) differ. Finally, we assess if the definition of the sample size (#sites versus #sites x #taxa) yields different models and, as a consequence, different tree topologies.\nResults: We find that, all three factors (by order of impact: nucleotide model selection, information criterion used, sample size definition) can yield topologically substantially different final tree topologies (topological difference exceeding 10%) for approximately 5% of the tree inferences conducted on the 39 empirical datasets used in our study.\nConclusions: We find that, using the best-fit nucleotide substitution model may change the final ML tree topology compared to an inference under a default GTR model. The effect is less pronounced when comparing distinct information criteria. Nonetheless, in some cases we did obtain substantial topological differences.', u'Background \nGenetics plays an important role in coronary heart disease (CHD) but the clinical utility of a genomic risk score (GRS) relative to clinical risk scores, such as the Framingham Risk Score (FRS), is unclear. \n\nMethods \nWe generated a GRS of 49,310 SNPs based on a CARDIoGRAMplusC4D Consortium meta-analysis of CHD, then independently tested this using five prospective population cohorts (three FINRISK cohorts, combined n=12,676, 757 incident CHD events; two Framingham Heart Study cohorts (FHS), combined n=3,406, 587 incident CHD events).\n\nResults\nThe GRS was strongly associated with time to CHD event (FINRISK HR=1.74, 95% CI 1.61-1.86 per S.D. of GRS; Framingham HR=1.28, 95% CI 1.18-1.38), and was largely unchanged by adjustment for clinical risk scores or individual risk factors, including family history. Integration of the GRS with clinical risk scores (FRS and ACC/AHA13 score) improved prediction of CHD events within 10 years (meta-analysis C-index: +1.5-1.6%, P<0.001), particularly for individuals \u226560 years old (meta-analysis C-index: +4.6-5.1%, P<0.001). Men in the top 20% of the GRS had 3-fold higher risk of CHD by age 75 in FINRISK and 2-fold in FHS, and attaining 10% cumulative CHD risk 18y earlier in FINRISK and 12y earlier in FHS than those in the bottom 20%. Furthermore, high genomic risk was partially compensated for by low systolic blood pressure, low cholesterol level, and non-smoking. \n\nConclusions\nA GRS based on a large number of SNPs substantially improves CHD risk prediction and encodes decades of variation in CHD risk not captured by traditional clinical risk scores.', u'Domain growth plays an important role in many biological systems, and so the inclusion of domain growth in models of these biological systems is important to understanding how these biological systems function. In this work we present methods to include the effects of domain growth on the evolution of spatial correlations in a continuum approximation of a lattice-based model of cell motility and proliferation. We show that, depending on the way in which domain growth is implemented, different steady-state densities are predicted for an agent population. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the way in which domain growth is implemented can result in the evolution of the agent density depending on the size of the domain. Continuum approximations that ignore spatial correlations cannot capture these behaviours, while those that account for spatial correlations do. These results will be of interest to researchers in developmental biology, as they suggest that the nature of domain growth can determine the characteristics of cell populations.', u'Mathematical models describing cell movement and proliferation are important research tools for the understanding of many biological processes. In this work we present methods to include the effects of domain growth on the evolution of spatial correlations between agent locations in a continuum approximation of a one-dimensional lattice-based model of cell motility and proliferation. This is important as the inclusion of spatial correlations in continuum models of cell motility and proliferation without domain growth has previously been shown to be essential for their accuracy in certain scenarios. We include the effect of spatial correlations by deriving a system of ordinary differential equations that describe the expected evolution of individual and pair density functions for agents on a growing domain. We then demonstrate how to simplify this system of ordinary differential equations by using an appropriate approximation. This simplification allows domain growth to be included in models describing the evolution of spatial correlations between agents in a tractable manner.', u'The electrophysiological study of learning is hampered by modern procedures for estimating firing rates: Such procedures usually require large datasets, and also require that included trials be functionally identical. Unless a method can track the real-time dynamics of how firing rates evolve, learning can only be examined in the past tense. We propose a quantitative procedure, called ARRIS, that can uncover trial-by-trial firing dynamics. ARRIS provides reliable estimates of firing rates based on small samples using the reversible-jump Markov chain Monte Carlo algorithm. Using weighted interpolation, ARRIS can also provide estimates that evolve over time. As a result, both real-time estimates of changing activity, and of task-dependent tuning, can be obtained during the initial stages of learning.', u'Background.\nCopy number variants (CNVs) are a type of polymorphism found to underlie phenotypic variation, both in humans and livestock. Most surveys of CNV in livestock have been conducted in the cattle genome, and often utilise only a single approach for the detection of copy number differences. Here we performed a study of CNV in sheep, using multiple methods to identify and characterise copy number changes.  Comprehensive information from small pedigrees (trios) was collected using multiple platforms (array CGH, SNP chip and whole genome sequence data), with these data then analysed via multiple approaches to identify and verify CNVs.\n\nResults.\nIn total, 3,488 autosomal CNV regions (CNVRs) were identified from 30 sheep. The average length of the identified CNVRs was 19kb (range of 1kb to 3.6Mb), with shorter CNVRs being more frequent than longer CNVRs. The total length of all CNVRs was 67.6Mbps, which equates to 2.7% of the sheep autosomes.  For individuals this value ranged from 0.24 to 0.55%, and the majority of CNVRs were identified in single animals. Rather than being uniformly distributed throughout the genome, CNVRs tended to be clustered.  Application of three independent approaches for CNVR detection facilitated a comparison of validation rates. CNVs identified on the Roche-NimbleGen 2.1M CGH array generally had low validation rates, while whole genome sequence data had the highest validation rate. \n \nConclusions.\nThis study represents the first comprehensive survey of the distribution, prevalence and characteristics of CNVR in sheep. Multiple approaches were used to detect CNV regions and it appears that the best method for verifying CNVR on a large scale involves using a combination of detection methodologies.  The characteristics of the 3,488 autosomal CNV regions identified in this study are comparable to other CNV regions reported in the literature and provide a valuable addition to the small subset of published sheep CNVs.', u'The avian coronavirus infectious bronchitis virus (IBV) typically infects the respiratory tract of chickens, but can also spread to other organs. However, the mechanisms of virus dissemination are presently unclear. We show that peripheral blood-derived monocytes/macrophages from chickens (chPBMC) are productively infected by clinical strains of IBV, accompanied by induction of apoptosis. Our data suggest that chPBMCs play a role in the dissemination of IBV, and may be important for viral pathogenesis.', u'Recent technological developments allow investigation of the repeatability of evolution at the genomic level. Such investigation is particularly powerful when applied to a ring species, in which spatial variation can be used to represent the evolutionary changes that occurred during the evolution of two species from one. We examined patterns of genomic variation among three populations of the greenish warbler ring species, using genotypes at 13,013,950 nucleotide sites along a new greenish warbler consensus genome assembly. Genomic regions of low within-group variation are remarkably consistent between the three populations. These regions show high relative differentiation but surprisingly low absolute differentiation between populations. We propose that these regions underwent selective sweeps over a broad geographic area followed by within-population selection-induced reductions in variation. A surprising implication of this "sweep-before-differentiation" model is that genomic regions of high relative differentiation may have moved among populations more recently than regions elsewhere in the genome.', u'Fluid intelligence is a crucial cognitive ability that predicts key life outcomes across the lifespan. Strong empirical links exist between fluid intelligence and processing speed on the one hand, and white matter integrity and processing speed on the other hand. We propose a watershed model that integrates these three explanatory levels in a principled manner in a single statistical model, with processing speed and white matter figuring as intermediate endophenotypes. We fit this model in a large (N=562) adult lifespan cohort of the Cambridge Centre for Ageing and Neuroscience study (Cam-CAN) using multiple measures of processing speed, white matter health and fluid intelligence. The model fit the data well, outperforming competing models, providing evidence for a many-to-one mapping between white matter integrity, processing speed and fluid intelligence, and can be naturally extended to integrate other cognitive domains, endophenotypes and genotypes.', u'How do ageing bacterial colonies generate adaptive mutants? Over a period of two months, we isolated on ageing colonies outgrowing mutants able to use a new carbon source, and sequenced their genomes. This allowed us to uncover exquisite details on the molecular mechanism behind their adaptation: most mutations were located in just a few hotspots in the genome and over time, mutations increasingly originated from 8-oxo-guanosine, formed exclusively on the transcribed strand.', u'Software to call single nucleotide polymorphisms or related genetic variants has converged on the variant call format (VCF) as the output format of choice. This has created a need for tools to work with VCF files. While an increasing number of software exists to read VCF data, many only extract the genotypes without including the data associated with each genotype that describes its quality. We created the R package vcfR to address this issue. We developed a VCF file exploration tool implemented in the R language because R provides an interactive experience and an environment that is commonly used for genetic data analysis. Functions to read and write VCF files into R as well as functions to extract portions of the data and to plot summary statistics of the data are implemented. VcfR further provides the ability to visualize how various parameterizations of the data affect the results. Additional tools are included to integrate sequence (FASTA) and annotation data (GFF) for visualization of genomic regions such as chromosomes. Conversion functions translate data from the vcfR data structure to formats used by other R genetics packages. Computationally intensive functions are implemented in C++ to improve performance. Use of these tools is intended to facilitate VCF data exploration, including intuitive methods for data quality control and easy export to other R packages for further analysis. VcfR thus provides essential, novel tools currently not available in R.', u'Classical quantitative genetic analyses estimate additive and non-additive genetic and environmental components of variance from phenotypes of related individuals. The genetic variance components are defined in terms of genotypic values reflecting underlying genetic architecture (additive, dominance and epistatic genotypic effects) and allele frequencies. However, the dependency of the definition of genetic variance components on the underlying genetic models is not often appreciated. Here, we show how the partitioning of additive and non-additive genetic variation is affected by the genetic models and parameterization of allelic effects. We show that arbitrarily defined variance components often capture a substantial fraction of total genetic variation regardless of the underlying genetic architecture in simulated and real data. Therefore, variance component analysis cannot be used to infer genetic architecture of quantitative traits. The genetic basis of quantitative trait variation in a natural population can only be defined empirically using high resolution mapping methods followed by detailed characterization of QTL effects.', u'RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) are key players in post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression, implicated in both cellular physiology and pathology. Several studies have described individual interactions of RBP proteins with RBP mRNAs, evocative of an RBP regulatory hierarchy. Here we present the first systematic investigation of this hierarchy, based on a network including twenty thousand experimentally determined interactions between RBPs and bound RBP mRNAs. RBPs bind their mRNA in half of the cases, providing conclusive evidence of their general propensity to autoregulation. The RBP regulatory network is dominated by directional chains, rather than by modular communities as in the transcription factor regulatory network. These chains are initiated by an essential class of RBPs, the iRBPs. One of these, RBMX, initiates several thousand chains reaching most human RBPs. Our results show that chains make the network hierarchical, forming a post-transcriptional backbone that allows the fine-grained control of RBPs and their targets.', u'Kinases play a critical role in cellular signaling pathways. Human kinase dysregulation has been linked to a number of diseases, such as cancer, diabetes, and inflammation, and as a result, much of the effort in developing treatments (and perhaps 30% of all current drug development effort) has focused on shutting down aberrant kinases with targeted inhibitors. While insect and mammalian expression systems are frequently utilized for the expression of human kinases, they cannot compete with the simplicity and cost-effectiveness of bacterial expression systems, which historically had found human kinases difficult to express. Following the demonstration that phosphatase coexpression could give high yields of Src and Abl kinase domains in inexpensive bacterial expression systems [1], we have performed a large-scale expression screen to generate a library of His-tagged human kinase domain constructs that express well in a simple automated bacterial expression system where phosphatase coexpression (YopH for Tyr kinases, lambda for Ser/Thr kinases) is used. Starting from 96 kinases with crystal structures and any reported bacterial expression, we engineered a library of human kinase domain constructs and screened their coexpression with phosphatase, finding 52 kinases with yields greater than 2 mg/L culture. All sequences and expression data are provided online at https://github.com/choderalab/kinase-ecoli-expression-panel, and the plasmids are in the process of being made available through AddGene.', u'Histone H1 variants, known as linker histones, are essential chromatin components in higher eukaryotes, yet compared to the core histones relatively little is known about their in vivo functions. The filamentous fungus Neurospora crassa encodes a single H1 protein that is not essential for viability. To investigate the role of N. crassa H1, we constructed a functional FLAG-tagged H1 fusion protein and performed genomic and molecular analyses. Cell fractionation experiments showed that H1-FLAG is a chromatin binding protein. Chromatin-immunoprecipitation combined with sequencing (ChIP-seq) revealed that H1-3XFLAG is globally enriched throughout the genome with a subtle preference for promoters of expressed genes. In mammals, the stochiometery of H1 impacts nucleosome repeat length. To determine if H1 impacts nucleosome occupancy or nucleosome positioning in N. crassa, we performed Micrococcal nuclease digestion in wildtype and the \u2206hH1 strain followed by sequencing (MNase-seq). Deletion of hH1 did not significantly impact nucleosome positioning or nucleosome occupancy. Analysis of DNA methylation by whole-genome bisulfite sequencing (MethylC-seq) revealed a modest but global increase in DNA methylation in the \u2206hH1 mutant. Together, these data suggest that H1 acts as a non-specific chromatin binding protein that can limit accessibility of the DNA methylation machinery in N. crassa.', u'Little is known about the basic ecology of albuneid sand crabs because they conceal themselves by digging in sand, and are typically found at low densities. I sampled sand crabs, Lepidopa benedicti were sampled at South Padre Island, Texas, regularly for more than five years. Density is high in the summer, and low in the winter. The sex ratio is slightly, but consistently, female skewed. Ovigerous females, carrying about one thousand eggs, are found in mid-summer, with most of the young of the year settling in autumn. The average size of individuals in the South Texas population is smaller than individuals in the Atlantic Ocean, but the population density appear to be higher in Texas. I also describe a new orange colour morph. The results are not consistent with an earlier suggestion that South Texas acts as a population sink for L. benedicti.', u'Despite many successes of genome-wide association (GWA) studies, known susceptibility variants identified by GWAS have the modest effect sizes and we met noticeable skepticism about the risk prediction model building with large-scale genetic data. However, in contrast with genetic variants, family history of diseases has been largely accepted as an important risk factor in clinical diagnosis and risk prediction though; complicated structures of family history of diseases have limited their application to clinical use. Here, we develop a new method which enables the incorporation of general family history of diseases with the liability threshold model and a new analysis strategy for risk prediction with penalized regression incorporating large-scale genetic variants and clinical risk factors. An application of our model to type 2 diabetes (T2D) patients in Korean population (1846 cases out of 3692 subjects) demonstrates that SNPs accounts for 28.6% of T2D\u2019s variability and incorporation of family history leads to additional improvement of 5.9%. Our result illustrates that family history of diseases can have an invaluable information for disease prediction and may bridge the gap originated from missing heritability.', u'Background\nAntimicrobial resistance is a major issue in the Shigellae, particularly as a specific multidrug resistant (MDR) lineage of Shigella sonnei (lineage III) is becoming globally dominant. Ciprofloxacin is a recommended treatment for Shigella infections. However, ciprofloxacin resistant S. sonnei are being increasingly isolated in Asia, and sporadically reported on other continents. \nMethods and Findings\nHypothesising that Asia is the hub for the recent international spread of ciprofloxacin resistant S. sonnei, we performed whole genome sequencing on a collection of contemporaneous ciprofloxacin resistant S. sonnei isolated in six countries from within and outside of Asia. We reconstructed the recent evolutionary history of these organisms and combined these data with their geographical location of isolation. Placing these sequences into a global phylogeny we found that all ciprofloxacin resistant S. sonnei formed a single clade within a Central Asian expansion of Lineage III. Further, our data show that resistance to ciprofloxacin within S. sonnei can be globally attributed to a single clonal emergence event, encompassing sequential gyrA-S83L, parC-S80I and gyrA-D87G mutations. Geographical data predict that South Asia is the likely primary source of these organisms, which are being regularly exported across Asia and intercontinentally into Australia, the USA and Europe. \nConclusions\nThis study shows that a single clone, which is widespread in South Asia, is driving the current intercontinental surge of ciprofloxacin resistant S. sonnei and is capable of establishing endemic transmission in new locations. Despite being limited in geographical scope, our work has major implications for understanding the international transfer of antimicrobial resistant S. sonnei, and provides a tractable model for studying how antimicrobial resistant Gram-negative community acquired pathogens spread globally.', u'Adaptation of bacteria occurs predominantly via horizontal gene transfer. While it is widely recognized that horizontal gene acquisitions frequently encompass multiple genes, it is currently unclear what the size distribution of successfully transferred DNA segments looks like and what evolutionary forces shape this distribution. Here, we identified 7,538 gene pairs that were consistently co-gained on the same branches across a phylogeny of 53 E. coli strains. These pairs are significantly enriched in genes that share the same GO annotation. We estimated the genomic distances of these co-gained pairs at the time they were transferred to their host genomes, which shows a sharp upper bound at 30kb. This upper bound is significantly lower than the size limit on gene co-transfers imposed by the carrying capacity of the transfer agents. The observed distance distribution also appears inconsistent with a model based on the co-transfer of genes within operons; instead, we found that the distance distribution of co-transferred genes closely matches the distribution expected from the transfer of uber-operons, i.e., genomic clusters of co-functioning genes beyond operons.', u'Any cause that negatively affects mortality, positively affects mortality, negatively affects survivorship, and positively affects survivorship is tetraeffective (i.e., having four kinds of effects).  However, until now, tetraeffective causes of mortality and survivorship have been undescribed, unidentified, unnamed, unrecognized, unclear, misconceived, unspecified, and unexplained.  Here I describe, identify, name, recognize, elucidate, conceptualize, specify, and explain tetraeffective causes of mortality and survivorship.  I show that every tetraeffective cause of mortality and survivorship combines corresponding at least one mortacause and at least one vitacause; mortacause refers here to a cause that positively affects mortality and negatively affects survivorship, and vitacause refers to a cause that positively affects survivorship and negatively affects mortality.  I present strong rationales that suggest that every cause of mortality and survivorship is tetraeffective, and I present references to considerable previous evidence that I interpret to be suggestive evidence of tetraeffective causes of mortality and survivorship.  Moreover, rigorous and thorough multivariable analyses of mortality and survivorship of humans and medflies provide here direct evidence of tetraeffective causes of mortality and survivorship, revealing best-fitting specifications dY/d(Xp) = a + bXp such that sign(a) = -sign(bXp), where: Y indicates mortality or survivorship; X indicates age, lifespan, contemporary aggregate size, lifespan aggregate size, or historical time; a indicates an X-specific mortacause or vitacause;  bXp indicates the corresponding opposite X-specific mortacause or vitacause; and coefficients a, b, and p denote respective X-specific and entity-specific constants.  Thus description, identification, naming, recognition, elucidation, conception, specification, explanation, and demonstration of tetraeffective causes of mortality and survivorship usher a new paradigm of causes of mortality and survivorship and enable and promote further scientific research and practical applications.', u'Computational methods for Target Fishing permit the discovery of new targets of a drug, which may result in its reposition in a new indication or improving our current understanding of its efficacy and side effects. Being a relatively recent class of methods, there is still a need to improve their validation, which is technically difficult, often limited to a small part of the targets and not easily interpretable by the user. Here we propose a new validation approach and use it to assess the reliability of ligand-centric techniques, which by construction provide the widest coverage of the proteome. On average over approved drugs, we find that only five predicted targets will have to be tested in order to find at least two true targets with submicromolar potency, although a strong variability in performance is observed. Also, we identify an average of eight known targets in approved drugs, which suggests that polypharmacology is a common and strong event. In addition, we observe that many known targets of approved drugs are currently missed by these methods. Lastly, by using a control group of randomly-selected molecules, we discuss how the data generation process confounds this analysis and its implications for method validation.', u'We propose a user-friendly, comprehensive genome software suite for the interactive visualization and analysis of gene expression heatmaps, including integrated features to support: statistical analysis, gene ontology analysis, and dynamic network visualization of differentially expressed genes directly from a heatmap.    \n\nMicroScope is hosted online as an R Shiny web application based on the D3 JavaScript library: https://microscope.shinyapps.io/microscope.  The methods are implemented in R, and are available as part of the MicroScope project at: https://github.com/Bohdan-Khomtchouk/Microscope.', u'In this work two new methods for detection of divergent selection in populations connected by migration are introduced. The new statistics are robust to false positives and do not need knowledge on the ancestral or derived allelic state.  There is no requirement for performing neutral simulations to obtain critical cut-off values for the identification of candidates. The first method, called nvdFST, combines information from the haplotype patterns with inter-population differences in allelic frequency. Remarkably, this is not a FST outlier test because it does not look at the highest FSTs to identify loci. On the contrary, candidate loci are chosen based on a haplotypic allelic class metric and then the FST for these loci are estimated and compared to the overall FST. Evidence of divergent selection is concluded only when both the haplotype pattern and the FST value support it. It is shown that power ranging from 79-94% are achieved in many of the scenarios assayed while the false positive rate is controlled below the desired nominal level (\u03b3 = 0.05). Additionally, the method is also robust to demographic scenarios including population bottleneck and expansion. The second method, called EOS, is developed for data with independently segregating markers. In this case, the power to detect selection is attained by developing a new GST extreme-outlier set test (EOS) based on heuristic problem solving via a k-means clustering algorithm. The utility of the methods is demonstrated through simulations and the analysis of real data. Both algorithms have been implemented in the program HacDivSel.', u'Meta-analysis of multiple genome-wide association studies (GWAS) has become an effective approach for detecting single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) associations with complex traits. However, it is difficult to integrate the readily accessible SNP-level summary statistics from a meta-analysis into more powerful multi-marker testing procedures, which generally require individual-level genetic data. We developed a general procedure called Summary based Adaptive Rank Truncated Product (sARTP) for conducting gene and pathway meta-analysis that uses only SNP-level summary statistics in combination with genotype correlation estimated from a panel of individual-level genetic data. We demonstrated the validity and power advantage of sARTP through empirical and simulated data. We conducted a comprehensive pathway meta-analysis with sARTP on type 2 diabetes (T2D) by integrating SNP-level summary statistics from two large studies consisting of 19,809 T2D cases and 111,181 controls with European ancestry. Among 4,713 candidate pathways from which genes in neighborhoods of 170 GWAS established T2D loci were excluded, we detected 43 T2D globally significant pathways (with Bonferroni corrected p-values < 0.05), which included the insulin signaling pathway and T2D pathway defined by KEGG, as well as the pathways defined according to specific gene expression patterns on various tumor types, including pancreatic adenocarcinoma, hepatocellular carcinoma, and bladder carcinoma. Using summary data from eight eastern Asian T2D GWAS with 6,952 cases and 11,865 controls, we showed 7 out of the 43 pathways identified in European populations remained to be significant in eastern Asians at the false discovery rate of 0.1.  We created a R package and a web-based tool for sARTP with the capability to analyze pathways with thousands of genes and tens of thousands of SNPs.', u'The accurate interpretation of variation in Mendelian disease genes has lagged behind data generation as sequencing has become increasingly accessible. Ongoing large sequencing efforts present huge interpretive challenges, but also provide an invaluable opportunity to characterize the spectrum and importance of rare variation. Here we analyze sequence data from 7,855 clinical cardiomyopathy cases and 60,706 ExAC reference samples to better understand genetic variation in a representative autosomal dominant disorder. We show that in some genes previously reported as important causes of a given cardiomyopathy, rare variation is not clinically informative and there is a high likelihood of false positive interpretation. By contrast, in other genes, we find that diagnostic laboratories may be overly conservative when assessing variant pathogenicity. We outline improved interpretation approaches for specific genes and variant classes and propose that these will increase the clinical utility of testing across a range of Mendelian diseases.', u'In this research we have analyzed functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) signals\nof different networks in the brain under resting state condition.\nTo such end, the dynamics of signal variation, have been conceived as a stochastic\nmotion, namely it has been modelled through a generalized Langevin stochastic\ndifferential equation, which combines a deterministic drift component with a stochastic\ncomponent where the Gaussian noise source has been replaced with \u03b1-stable noise.\nThe parameters of the deterministic and stochastic parts of the model have been\nfitted from fluctuating data. Results show that the deterministic part is characterized\nby a simple, linear decreasing trend, and, most important, the \u03b1-stable noise, at varying\ncharacteristic index \u03b1, is the source of a spectrum of activity modes across the networks,\nfrom those originated by classic Gaussian noise (\u03b1 = 2), to longer tailed behaviors\ngenerated by the more general Levy noise (1 \u2264 \u03b1 < 2).\nLevy motion is a specific instance of scale-free behavior, it is a source of anomalous\ndiffusion and it has been related to many aspects of human cognition, such as\ninformation foraging through memory retrieval or visual exploration.\nFinally, some conclusions have been drawn on the functional significance of the\ndynamics corresponding to different \u03b1 values.', u'Cytochrome c oxidase (CcO) reduces oxygen to water and uses the released free energy to pump protons across the membrane, contributing to the transmembrane proton electrochemical gradient that drives ATP synthesis. We have used multiscale reactive molecular dynamics simulations to explicitly characterize (with free energy profiles and calculated rates) the internal proton transport events that enable pumping and chemistry during the A\u2192PR\u2192F transition in the aa3-type CcO. Our results show that proton transport from amino acid residue E286 to both the pump loading site (PLS) and to the binuclear center (BNC) are thermodynamically driven by electron transfer from heme a to the BNC, but that the former (i.e., pumping) is kinetically favored while the latter (i.e., transfer of the chemical proton) is rate-limiting. The calculated rates are in quantitative agreement with experimental measurements. The back flow of the pumped proton from the PLS to E286 and from E286 to the inner side of membrane are prevented by the fast reprotonation of E286 through the D-channel and large free energy barriers for the back flow reactions. Proton transport from E286 to the PLS through the hydrophobic cavity (HC) and from D132 to E286 through the D-channel are found to be strongly coupled to dynamical hydration changes in the corresponding pathways. This work presents a comprehensive description of the key steps in the proton pumping mechanism in CcO.', u"Early visual cortical neurons receive highly selective feedforward input, which is amplified or disamplified by contextual feedback and lateral connections. A significant challenge for systems neuroscience is to measure the feature space that drives these feedback channels. We occluded visual scenes and measured non-feedforward stimulated subregions of V1 and V2 using fMRI and multi-voxel pattern analyses. We found that response patterns in these subregions contain two high-level scene features, category and depth information. Responses in non-feedforward stimulated V1 and V2 differed from each other, suggesting that feedback to these two areas has unique information content. Further, we reveal that computational models of visual processing inadequately describe early visual cortex because they do not account for the brain's internal modelling of the world.", u'Gonadal atrophy is the most typical and dramatic manifestation of intraspecific hybrid dysgenesis syndrome leading to sterility of Drosophila melanogaster dysgenic progeny. The P-M system of hybrid dysgenesis is primarily associated with germ cell degeneration during the early stages of Drosophila development at elevated temperatures. In the present study, we have defined the phase of germ cell death as beginning at the end of embryogenesis immediately following gonad formation. The early stages of germ cell formation in dysgenic flies showed sensitivity to developmental temperature increases at any stage of the Drosophila life cycle including the imago. Analysis of germ cell reactions to hybrid dysgenesis induction revealed significant changes in subcellular structure, especially mitochondria, prior to germ cell breakdown. The mitochondrial pathology can be the reason for the activation of cell death pathways in dysgenic germ cells and lead to gonadal atrophy.', u'Somitogenesis is a fundamental segmentation process that forms the vertebrate body plan. A network of transcription factors is essential in establishing the spatial temporal order of this process. One such transcription factor is mesp-ba which has an important role in determining somite boundary formation. Its expression in somitogenesis is tightly regulated by the transcriptional activator Tbx6 and the repressor Ripply1 via a feedback regulatory network. Loss of foxc1a function in zebrafish leads to lack of anterior somite formation and reduced mesp-ba expression. Here we examine how foxc1a interacts with the tbx6-ripply1 network to regulate mesp-ba expression. In foxc1a morphants, anterior somites did not form at 12.5 hours post fertilization (hpf). At 22 hpf posterior somites formed, whereas anterior somites remained absent. In ripply1 morphants, no somites were observed at any time point. The expression of mesp-ba was reduced in the foxc1a morphants and expanded anteriorly in ripply1 morphants. The tbx6 expression domain was smaller and shifted anteriorly in the foxc1a morphants. Double knockdown of foxc1a and ripply1 resulted in absence of anterior somite formation while posterior somites did form, suggesting a partial rescue of the ripply1 phenotype. However, unlike the single foxc1a morphants, expression of mesp-ba was restored in the anterior PSM. Expression of tbx6 was expanded anteriorly in the double morphants. In conclusion, both foxc1a and ripply1 morphants displayed defects in somitogenesis, but their individual loss of function had opposing effects on mesp-ba expression. Loss of ripply1 appears to have rescued the mesp-ba expression in the foxc1a morphant, suggesting that intersection of these parallel regulatory mechanisms is required for normal mesp-ba expression and somite formation.', u'Noninvasive brain stimulation using ultrasound has many potential applications as a research and clinical tool. Here, we investigated the effect of focused ultrasound (FUS) with systemically administered microbubbles on perceptual decision-making behavior in monkeys. We targeted FUS to the putamen in one hemisphere to open the blood-brain barrier, and then tested behavioral performance 3-4 hours later. On days when the monkeys were treated with FUS, their decisions were faster and more accurate than days without sonication. The performance improvement was greater for responses made with the hand contralateral to the treated hemisphere. FUS also enhanced the effect of a low dose of haloperidol. The results suggest that a two-minute application of FUS can have a sustained impact on cognitive performance, and can increase the efficacy of psychoactive medications.', u"The World Health Organization has declared Zika Virus a Public Health Emergency of International Concern due to the virus' emergence in multiple countries globally and the possible association of Zika virus with microcephaly and neurological disorders. There is a clear need to identify risk factors associated with Zika infection and microcephaly in order to target surveillance, testing and intervention efforts. Here, we show that there is a strong correlation between the incidence of Zika in Colombian departments and the force of infection (but not the crude incidence) of dengue, a virus transmitted by the same mosquito species, Aedes aegypti (R2 = 0.41, p<0.001). Furthermore, we show that there is also a strong correlation between the incidence of microcephaly in Brazilian states and the force of infection of dengue (R2 = 0.36, p<0.001). Because dengue, Zika and Chikungunya are transmitted by the same vector, these associations provide further support to the supposition that Zika virus infection during pregnancy causes microcephaly.  In addition, they provide an opportunity to project the expected incidence of microcephaly in multiple dengue endemic locations across Colombia and the American continent. Detailed knowledge of dengue transmission should be use to target efforts against Zika and other flaviviruses.", u'Ectopic DNA binding by transcription factors and other DNA binding proteins can be detrimental to cellular functions and ultimately to organismal fitness. The frequency of protein-DNA binding at non-functional sites depends on the global composition of a genome with respect to all possible short motifs, or k-mer words. To determine whether weak yet ubiquitous protein-DNA interactions could exert significant evolutionary pressures on genomes, we correlate in vitro measurements of binding strengths on all 8-mer words from a large collection of transcription factors, in several different species, against their relative genomic frequencies. Our analysis reveals a clear signal of purifying selection to reduce the large number of weak binding sites genome-wide. This evolutionary process, which we call global selection, has a detectable hallmark in that similar words experience similar evolutionary pressure, a consequence of the biophysics of protein-DNA binding. By analyzing a large collection of genomes, we show that global selection exists in all domains of life, and operates through tiny selective steps, maintaining genomic binding landscapes over long evolutionary timescales.', u'The increasing number of genetic association studies conducted in multiple populations provides unprecedented opportunity to study how the genetic architecture of complex phenotypes varies between populations, a problem important for both medical and population genetics. Here we develop a method for estimating the transethnic genetic correlation: the correlation of causal variant effect sizes at SNPs common in populations. We take advantage of the entire spectrum of SNP associations and use only summary-level GWAS data. This avoids the computational costs and privacy concerns associated with genotype-level information while remaining scalable to hundreds of thousands of individuals and millions of SNPs. We apply our method to gene expression, rheumatoid arthritis, and type-two diabetes data and overwhelmingly find that the genetic correlation is significantly less than 1. Our method is implemented in a python package called popcorn.', u'All obligate intracellular pathogens must exit their host cells in order to propagate and survive as a species; the precise strategies they use have a direct impact on their ability to disseminate within a host, transmit to new hosts, and engage or avoid immune responses. The obligate intracellular bacterium Chlamydia trachomatis exits the host cell by two distinct exit strategies, lysis and extrusion. Despite being equally active pathways, lysis and extrusion differ greatly in their mechanisms. The defining characteristics of extrusions, and advantages gained by Chlamydia within this unique double-membrane structure are not well understood. Here, we present data that defines extrusions as being largely devoid of host organelles, comprised mostly of Chlamydia elementary bodies, and containing phosphatidylserine on the outer surface of the extrusion membrane. Towards defining a functional role for extrusions in Chlamydia pathogenesis, we demonstrate that extrusions confer significant infectious advantages for Chlamydia by serving as transient, intracellular-like niches for extracellular Chlamydia, as compared to Chlamydia that would otherwise exit by lysing the host cell. In addition to enhanced survival outside of the host cell, we report the key discovery that chlamydial extrusions can be engulfed by primary bone marrow-derived macrophages, after which they provide a protective microenvironment for Chlamydia. Extrusion-derived Chlamydia were able to stave off macrophage based killing beyond 8 h, and culminated in the release of infectious EB from the macrophage. Based on these findings, we propose a model in which a major outcome of Chlamydia exiting epithelial cells inside extrusions is to hijack macrophages as vehicles for dissemination within the host.', u'Genomic copy number variants (CNVs) have been strongly implicated in the etiology of schizophrenia (SCZ). However, apart from a small number of risk variants, elucidation of the CNV contribution to risk has been difficult due to the rarity of risk alleles, all occurring in less than 1% of cases. We sought to address this obstacle through a collaborative effort in which we applied a centralized analysis pipeline to a SCZ cohort of 21,094 cases and 20,227 controls. We observed a global enrichment of CNV burden in cases (OR=1.11, P=5.7e-15), which persisted after excluding loci implicated in previous studies (OR=1.07, P=1.7e-6). CNV burden is also enriched for genes associated with synaptic function (OR = 1.68, P = 2.8e-11) and neurobehavioral phenotypes in mouse (OR = 1.18, P= 7.3e-5). We identified genome-wide significant support for eight loci, including 1q21.1, 2p16.3 (NRXN1), 3q29, 7q11.2, 15q13.3, distal 16p11.2, proximal 16p11.2 and 22q11.2. We find support at a suggestive level for nine additional candidate susceptibility and protective loci, which consist predominantly of CNVs mediated by non-allelic homologous recombination (NAHR).', u'The qualification of orthology is a significant challenge when developing large, multi-loci phylogenetic datasets from assembled transcripts. Transcriptome assemblies have various attributes, such as fragmentation, frameshifts, and mis-indexing, which pose problems to automated methods of orthology assessment. Here, we identify a set of orthologous single-copy genes from transcriptome assemblies for the land snails and slugs (Eupulmonata) using a thorough approach to orthology determination involving manual alignment curation, gene tree assessment and sequencing from genomic DNA. We qualified the orthology of 500 nuclear, protein coding genes from the transcriptome assemblies of 21 eupulmonate species to produce the most complete gene data matrix for a major molluscan lineage to date, both in terms of taxon and character completeness. Exon-capture of the 500 genes for 22 species of Australian Camaenidae successfully captured sequences of 2,825 exons, with only a 3.7% reduction in the data matrix due to the presence of putative paralogs or pseudogenes. The automated pipeline Agalma retrieved the majority of the manually qualified 500 single-copy gene set and identified a further 375 putative single-copy genes, although it failed to account for fragmented transcripts resulting in lower data matrix completeness. This could potentially explain the minor inconsistencies we observed in the supported topologies for the 21 eupulmonate species between the manually curated and Agalma-equivalent dataset (sharing 458 genes). Overall, our study confirms the utility of the 500 gene set to resolve phylogenetic relationships at a broad range of evolutionary depths, and highlights the importance of addressing fragmentation at the homolog alignment stage.', u'Nod-like Receptors (NLRs) are Nucleotide-binding domain and Leucine rich Repeats (NB-LRR)-containing proteins that are important in plant resistance signaling. Many of the known pathogen Resistance (R)-genes in plants are NLRs and they can recognise directly or indirectly pathogen molecules. As such, divergence and copy number variants at these genes is found to be high between species. Within populations, positive and balancing selection are to be expected if plants coevolve with their pathogens. In order to understand the complexity of R-gene coevolution in wild non-model species, it is necessary to identify the full range of NLRs and infer their evolutionary history.\nHere we investigate and reveal polymorphism occurring at 220 NLR genes within one population of the partially selfing wild tomato species S. pennellii.  We use a combination of enrichment sequencing and pooling of ten individuals, to specifically sequence NLR genes in a resource and cost-effective manner. We focus on the effects which different of mapping and SNP calling software and settings have on calling polymorphisms in customized pooled samples. Our results are accurately verified using Sanger sequencing of polymorphic gene fragments. Our results indicate that some NLRs, namely 13 out of 220, have maintained polymorphism within our S. pennellii population. These genes show a wide range of \u03c0N/ \u03c0s ratios and differing site frequency spectra. We compare our observed rate of heterozygosity to expectations for this selfing and bottlenecked population. We conclude that our method enables us to pinpoint NLR genes which have experienced natural selection in their habitat.', u'The pulsatile nature of transcription has recently emerged as an important property of gene expression. Here we report on the characterization of a RNA polymerase II transgene that is transcribed in the nucleolus. Using the MS2-GFP reporter system and live cell imaging, we found that the synthesis of a MS2-tagged transcript in the nucleolus was discontinuous in all of the cells that were observed, with periods of activity lasting from 15 minutes to 21 hours. The frequency of pulse lengths could be fitted with an exponential function, from which we determined that transcription occurs on average for periods of 20 minutes. These ON periods alternate with periods of inactivity which last on average 29 minutes. The post-mitotic re-activation of transcription was found to be asynchronous in daughter cell pairs. Our observation of discontinuous transcriptional activity in the nucleolus may reflect cycling in the assembly and disassembly of active chromatin structure in and/or around the rDNA genes.', u'In sensorimotor cortical slices of guinea pig in the course of cooling incubating fluid from 34 to 21-22\xb0C it was shown that hypothermia exerted both increase and decrease of spontaneous activity in different neurons. On hypothermic increase of firing level spike responses of soma to iontophoretic application of glutamate to dendritic locus appeared with shorter latencies and with longer latencies on hypothermic decrease of spontaneous activity. At the same time hypothermia did not influence on the evoked spike reactions to iontophoretic application of glutamate straight to the soma. It means that hypothermic disorders of neuronal activity are not connected with changes in sensitivity to glutamate but determined by changes of amplitude of glutamatergic excitation while propagating along dendritic branches. The changes in spontaneous activity began at 30\xb0C along with the decreased spike reactions to iontophoretic applications of acetylcholine and efficacy of dendro-somatic propagation. At the same temperature the fall of spike amplitude was initiated and increased with further hypothermia. It is proposed that the basis for hypothermic changes of neuronal activity is the decreased rate of M-cholinergic process at 27-29\xb0C which leads both to attenuation of conductive function of dendrites and imbalance of K+ ion homeostasis. Peculiarities of hypothermic regulation of neuronal spike activity depend on individual functional properties of cortical neurons.', u'The maturation of HIV-1 viral particles is essential for viral infectivity. During maturation, many copies of the capsid protein (CA) self-assemble into a capsid shell to enclose the viral RNA. The mechanistic details of the initiation and early stages of capsid assembly remain to be delineated. We present coarse-grained simulations of capsid assembly under various conditions, considering not only capsid lattice self-assembly but also the potential disassembly of capsid upon delivery to the cytoplasm of a target cell. The effects of CA concentration, molecular crowding, and the conformational variability of CA are described, with results indicating that capsid nucleation and growth is a multi-stage process requiring well-defined metastable intermediates. Generation of the mature capsid lattice is sensitive to local conditions, with relatively subtle changes in CA concentration and molecular crowding influencing self-assembly and the ensemble of structural morphologies.', u'Priority effects, in which early-arriving species exclude competing species from local communities, are thought to enhance regional species diversity by promoting community divergence. Theory suggests, however, that these same priority effects make it impossible for species to coexist in the region unless individuals are continuously supplied from an external species pool, often an unrealistic assumption. Here we develop an eco-evolutionary hypothesis to solve this conundrum. Using a metacommunity model in which priority effects occur via interspecific interference, we show that species can coexist regionally even in the absence of an external species pool if resistance to other species evolves rapidly under a trade-off with competitive ability. With this trade-off, species become less resistant as they become regionally more common. Rare species can then invade and dominate some local patches and consequently recover in regional frequency. Intriguingly, rare species recovery is possible even while local priority effects remain strong. This eco-evolutionary buffering of rare species appears especially effective when many small communities are connected by infrequent dispersal.', u'How are public goods maintained in bacterial cooperative populations? The presence of these compounds is usually threatened by the rise of cheaters that do not contribute but just exploit the common resource. Minimizing cheater invasions appears then as a necessary maintenance mechanism. However, that invasions can instead add to the persistence of cooperation is a prospect that has yet remained largely unexplored. Here, we show that the detrimental consequences of cheaters can actually preserve public goods, at the cost of recurrent collapses and revivals of the population. The result is made possible by the interplay between spatial constraints and the essentiality of the shared resource. We validate this counter-intuitive effect by carefully combining theory and experiment, with the engineering of an explicit synthetic community in which the public compound allows survival to a bactericidal stress. Notably, the characterization of the experimental system identifies additional factors that can matter, like the impact of the lag phase on the tolerance to stress, or the appearance of spontaneous mutants. Our work emphasizes the unanticipated consequences of the eco-evolutionary feedbacks that emerge in microbial communities relying on essential public goods to function, feedbacks that reveal fundamental for the adaptive change of ecosystems at all scales.', u'Cellular decision making is based on regulatory circuits that associate signal thresholds to specific physiological actions. This transmission of information is subjected to molecular noise what can decrease its fidelity. Here, we show instead how such intrinsic noise enhances information transfer in the presence of multiple circuit copies. The result is due to the contribution of noise to the generation of autonomous responses by each copy, which are altogether associated with a common decision. Moreover, factors that correlate the responses of the redundant units (extrinsic noise or regulatory cross-talk) contribute to reduce fidelity, while those that further uncouple them (heterogeneity within the copies) can lead to stronger information gain. Overall, our study emphasizes how the interplay of signal thresholding, redundancy, and noise influences the accuracy of cellular decision making. Understanding this interplay provides a basis to explain collective cell signaling mechanisms, and to engineer robust decisions with noisy genetic circuits.', u'The distribution of a phenotype on a phylogenetic tree is often a quantity of interest. Many phenotypes have imperfect heritability, so that a measurement of the phenotype for an individual can be thought of as a single realisation from the phenotype distribution of that individual. If all individuals in a phylogeny had the same phenotype distribution, measured phenotypes would be randomly distributed on the tree leaves. This is however often not the case, implying that the phenotype distribution evolves over time. Here we propose a new model based on this principle of evolving phenotype distribution on the branches of a phylogeny, which is different from ancestral state reconstruction where the phenotype itself is assumed to evolve. We develop an efficient Bayesian inference method to estimate the parameters of our model and to test the evidence for changes in the phenotype distribution. We use multiple simulated datasets to show that our algorithm has good sensitivity and specificity properties. Since our method identifies branches on the tree on which the phenotype distribution has changed, it is able to break down a tree into components for which this distribution is unique and constant. We present two applications of our method, one investigating the association between HIV genetic variation and human leukocyte antigen, and the other studying host range distribution in a lineage of Salmonella enterica, and we discuss many other potential applications. All the methods described in this paper are implemented in a software package called TreeBreaker which is freely available for download at https://github.com/ansariazim/TreeBreaker', u'Quantitative Trait Locus (QTL) mapping is a powerful technique for dissecting the genetic basis of traits and species differences. Established tomato mapping populations between domesticated tomato and its more distant interfertile relatives typically follow a near isogenic line (NIL) design, such as the Solanum pennellii Introgression Line (IL) population, with a single wild introgression per line in an otherwise domesticated genetic background. Here we report on a new advanced backcross QTL mapping resource for tomato, derived from a cross between the M82 tomato cultivar and S. pennelli. This so-called Backcrossed Inbred Line (BIL) population is comprised of a mix of BC2 and BC3 lines, with domesticated tomato as the recurrent parent. The BIL population is complementary to the existing S. pennellii IL population, with which it shares parents. Using the BILs we mapped traits for leaf complexity, leaflet shape, and flowering time. We demonstrate the utility of the BILs for fine-mapping QTL, particularly QTL initially mapped in the ILs, by fine-mapping several QTL to single or few candidate genes. Moreover, we confirm the value of a backcrossed population with multiple introgressions per line, such as the BILs, for epistatic QTL mapping. Our work was further enabled by the development of our own statistical inference and visualization tools, namely a heterogeneous Hidden Markov Model for genotyping the lines, and by using state of the art sparse regression techniques for QTL mapping.', u'Gene copy number variations are associated with many disorders characterized by high phenotypic heterogeneity. Disease penetrance differs even in genetically identical twins. Can such heterogeneity arise, in part, from increased expression variability of one dose genes? While increased variability in the context of single cell gene expression is well recognized, our computational simulations indicated that in a multicellular organism intrinsic single cell level noise should cancel out and thus the impact of gene copy reduction on organismal level expression variability must be due to something else. To systematically examine the impact of gene dose reduction on expression variability in a multi-cellular organism, we performed experimental gene expression measurements in Drosophila DrosDel autosomal deficiency lines.  Genome-wide analysis revealed that autosomal one dose genes have higher gene expression variability relative to two dose genes. In flies, gene dose reduction is often accompanied by dosage compensation at the gene expression level. Surprisingly, expression noise was increased by compensation. This increased compensation-dependent variability was found to be a property of one dose autosomal genes but not X-liked genes in males despite the fact that they too are dosage compensated, suggesting that sex chromosome dosage compensation also results in noise reduction. Previous studies attributed autosomal dosage compensation to feedback loops in interaction networks. Our results suggest that these feedback loops are not optimized to deliver consistent responses to gene deletion events and thus gene deletions can lead to heterogeneous responses even in the context of an identical genetic background. Additionally, we show that expression variation associated with reduced dose of transcription factors propagate through the gene interaction network, impacting a large number of downstream genes. These properties of gene deletions could contribute to the phenotypic heterogeneity of diseases associated with haploinsufficiency.', u'Perception is subjective. Even basic judgments, like those of visual object size, vary substantially between observers and also across the visual field within the same observer. The way in which the visual system determines the size of objects remains unclear, however. We hypothesize that object size is inferred from neuronal population activity in V1 and predict that idiosyncrasies in cortical functional architecture should therefore explain individual differences in size judgments. Indeed, using novel behavioral methods and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) we demonstrate that biases in size perception are correlated with the spatial tuning of neuronal populations in healthy volunteers. To explain this relationship, we formulate a population read-out model that directly links the spatial distribution of V1 representations to our perceptual experience of visual size. Altogether, we suggest that the individual perception of simple stimuli is warped by idiosyncrasies in visual cortical organization.', u'4C-Seq has proven to be a powerful technique to identify genome-wide interactions with a single locus of interest (or bait) that can be important for gene regulation. However, analysis of 4C-Seq data is complicated by the many biases inherent to the technique. An important consideration when dealing with 4C-Seq data is the differences in resolution of signal across the genome that result from differences in 3D distance separation from the bait.  This leads to the highest signal in the region immediately surrounding the bait and increasingly lower signals in far-cis and trans. Another important aspect of 4C-Seq is the resolution, which is greatly influenced by the choice of restriction enzyme and the frequency at which it can cut the genome. Thus, it is important that a 4C-Seq analysis method is flexible enough to analyze data generated using different enzymes and to identify interactions across the entire genome. Current methods for 4C-Seq analysis only identify interactions in regions near the bait or in regions located in far-cis and trans, but no method comprehensively analyzes 4C signals of different length scales. In addition, some methods also fail in experiments where chromatin fragments are generated using frequent cutter restriction enzymes. Here, we describe 4C-ker, a Hidden-Markov Model based analysis that identifies regions throughout the genome that interact with the 4C bait locus. In addition we incorporate methods for the identification of differential interactions in multiple 4C-seq datasets collected from different genotypes or experimental conditions. Adaptive window sizes are used to correct for differences in signal coverage in near-bait regions, far-cis and trans chromosomes. Using several datasets, we demonstrate that 4C-ker outperforms all existing 4C-Seq pipelines in its ability to reproducibly identify interaction domains at all genomic ranges with different resolution enzymes.', u'Phase-amplitude coupling (PAC), a type of cross-frequency coupling (CFC) where the phase of a low-frequency rhythm modulates the amplitude of a higher frequency, is becoming an important indicator of information transmission in the brain. However, the neurobiological mechanisms underlying its generation remain undetermined. A realistic, yet tractable model of the phenomenon is that needed. Here we propose a neural mass model of a cortical column, comprising fourteen neuronal populations distributed across four layers (L2/3, L4, L5, and L6). The conditional transfer entropies (cTE) from the phases to the amplitudes of the generated oscillations are estimated by means of the conditional mutual information. This approach provides information regarding directionality by distinguishing PAC from APC (amplitude-phase coupling), i.e. the information transfer from amplitudes to phases, and can be used to estimate other types of CFC such as amplitude-amplitude coupling (AAC), and phase-phase coupling (PPC). While experiments only focus on one or two PAC combinations (e.g, theta-gamma or alpha-gamma) we found that a cortical column can simultaneously generate almost all possible PAC combinations, depending on connectivity parameters, time constants, and external inputs. We found that the strength of PAC between two populations was strongly correlated with the strength of the effective connections between them and, on average, did not depend upon the presence or absence of a direct (anatomical) connection. When considering a cortical column circuit as a complex network, we found that neuronal populations making indirect PAC connections had, on average, higher local clustering coefficient, efficiency, and betweenness centrality than populations making direct connections and populations not involved in PAC connections. This suggests that their interactions were more efficient when transmitting information. Since more than 60 % of the obtained interactions represented indirect connections, our results highlight the importance of the topology of cortical circuits for the generation of the PAC phenomenon. Finally, our results demonstrated that indirect PAC interactions can be explained by a cascade of direct CFC and same-frequency band interactions, suggesting that PAC analysis of experimental data should be accompanied by the estimation of other types of frequency interactions for an integrative understanding of the phenomenon.', u"In a classic example of the invasion of a species by a selfish genetic element, the P-element was horizontally transferred from a distantly related species into Drosophila melanogaster. Despite causing 'hybrid dysgenesis', a syndrome of abnormal phenotypes that include sterility, the P-element spread globally in the course of a few decades in D. melanogaster.  Until recently, its sister species, including D. simulans, remained P-element free.  Here, we find a hybrid dysgenesis-like phenotype in the offspring of crosses between D. simulans strains collected in different years; a survey of 181 strains shows that around 20% of strains induce hybrid dysgenesis.  Using genomic and transcriptomic data, we show that this dysgenesis-inducing phenotype is associated with the invasion of the P-element.  To characterize this invasion temporally and geographically, we survey 631 D. simulans strains collected on three continents and over 27 years for the presence of the P-element. We find that the D. simulans P-element invasion occurred rapidly and nearly simultaneously in the regions surveyed, with strains containing P-elements being rare in 2006 and common by 2014. Importantly, as evidenced by their resistance to the hybrid dysgenesis phenotype, strains collected from the latter phase of this invasion have adapted to suppress the worst effects of the P-element.", u"Individual cell lineage trees are of biological and clinical importance. The Sanger Mouse Pilot Study used clonal organoid lines of endodermal origin to extract somatic base substitutions from single cells of two healthy mice. Here we applied Bayesian phylogenetics analysis using the Pilot's 35 somatic base substitutions in order to reconstruct the two cell trees and apply relaxed clock methods allowing intra-individual, cell lineage specific mutation rates. Detailed analysis provided support for the strict clock for mouse_1 and relaxed clock for mouse_2. Interestingly, a clade of two prostate organoid lines in mouse_2 presented one outlier branch mutation rate compared to the mean rates calculated. Based on this study unbiased clock analysis has the potential to add a new, useful layer to our understanding of normal and disturbed cell lineage trees. This study is the first to apply the popular Bayesian BEAST package to individual single cell resolution data.", u'Summary: BuddySuite is a collection of four independent yet interrelated command-line programs that facilitate each step in the workflow of sequence discovery, curation, alignment, and phylogenetic reconstruction. Common sequence, alignment, and tree file formats are automatically detected and parsed, and nearly 100 routine tasks have been combined into this comprehensive suite of toolkits.\nAvailability and Implementation: The project has been implemented in Python 3 for use on UNIX-based systems. Installation is performed using a dedicated graphical installer or by cloning the development Git repository. All source code is freely available.\nHome page: http://research.nhgri.nih.gov/software/BuddySuite\nContact: andy@mail.nih.gov, steve.bond@nih.gov\nSupplementary information: Complete documentation for each tool in the BuddySuite is available at http://tiny.cc/buddysuite_wiki', u'The interaction between ecology, culture and genome evolution remains poorly understood. Analysing population genomic data from killer whale ecotypes, which we estimate have globally radiated within less than 250,000 years, we show that genetic structuring including the segregation of potentially functional alleles is associated with socially inherited ecological niche. Reconstruction of ancestral demographic history revealed bottlenecks during founder events, likely promoting ecological divergence and genetic drift resulting in a wide range of genome-wide differentiation between pairs of allopatric and sympatric ecotypes. Functional enrichment analyses provided evidence for regional genomic divergence associated with habitat, dietary preferences and postzygotic reproductive isolation. Our findings are consistent with expansion of small founder groups into novel niches by an initial plastic behavioural response, perpetuated by social learning imposing an altered natural selection regime. The study constitutes an important step toward an understanding of the complex interaction between demographic history, culture, ecological adaptation and evolution at the genomic level.', u'Variation in gene expression, in addition to sequence polymorphisms, is known to influence developmental, physiological and metabolic traits in plants. Genetical genomics approaches on genetic mapping populations have facilitated the identification of expression Quantitative Trait Loci (eQTL), the genetic determinants of variation in gene expression patterns. We used an introgression population developed from the wild desert-adapted Solanum pennellii and domesticated tomato Solanum lycopersicum to identify the genetic basis of transcript level variation. We established the effect of each introgression on the transcriptome through differential gene expression analysis, and identified ~7,200 eQTL regulating the expression of 5,300 genes. Barnes-Hut t-distributed stochastic neighbor embedding clustering identified 42 modules revealing novel associations between gene expression patterns and biological processes. The results showed a complex genetic architecture of global gene expression pattern in tomato. Several genetic hotspots regulating a large number of gene expression patterns relating to diverse biological processes such as plant defense and photosynthesis were identified. We identified important eQTL regulating gene expression patterns related to leaf number and complexity, and hypocotyl length. Genes associated with leaf development showed an inverse correlation with photosynthetic gene expression but their regulation was dispersed across the genome. This is the first comprehensive insight into the global regulation of transcript abundance in tomato and its influence on plant phenotypes, which sets the stage for identifying gene/s underlying these regulatory loci.', u'Background: Pediatric oncologists have begun to leverage tumor genetic profiling to match patients with targeted therapies. At the Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center (MSKCC), we developed the Pediatric Molecular Tumor Board (PMTB) to track, integrate, and interpret clinical genomic profiling and potential targeted therapeutic recommendations. \nProcedure: This retrospective case series includes all patients reviewed by the MSKCC PMTB from July 2014 to June 2015. Cases were submitted by treating oncologists and potential treatment recommendations were based upon the modified guidelines of the Oxford Centre for Evidence Based Medicine.\nResults: There were 41 presentations of 39 individual patients during the study period. Gliomas, acute myeloid leukemia, and neuroblastoma were the most commonly reviewed cases. Thirty nine (87%) of the 45 molecular sequencing profiles utilized hybrid-capture targeted genome sequencing. In 30 (73%) of the 41 presentations, the PMTB provided therapeutic recommendations, of which 19 (46%) were implemented. Twenty-one (70%) of the recommendations involved targeted therapies. Three (14%) targeted therapy recommendations had published evidence to support the proposed recommendations (evidence levels 1-2), 8 (36%) recommendations had preclinical evidence (level 3), and 11 (50%) recommendations were based upon hypothetical biological rationales (level 4).\nConclusions: The MSKCC PMTB enabled a clinically relevant interpretation of genomic profiling. Effective use of clinical genomics is anticipated to require new and improved tools to ascribe pathogenic significance and therapeutic actionability.  Development of specific rule-driven clinical protocols will be needed for the incorporation and evaluation of genomic and molecular profiling in interventional prospective clinical trials.', u'1. Established methods for inference about selection gradients involve least-squares regression of fitness on phenotype.  While these methods are simple and may generally be quite robust, they do not account well for distributions of fitness.\n\n2. Some progress has previously been made in relating inferences about trait-fitness relationships from generalised linear models to selection gradients in the formal quantitative genetic sense.  These approaches involve numerical calculation of average derivatives of relative fitness with respect to phenotype.\n\n3. We present analytical results expressing selection gradients as functions of the coefficients of generalised linear models for fitness in terms of traits.  The analytical results allow calculation of univariate and multivariate directional, quadratic, and correlational selection gradients from log-linear and log-quadratic models.\n\n4. The results should be quite generally applicable in selection analysis.  They apply to any generalised linear model with a log link function.  Furthermore, we show how they apply to some situations including inference of selection from (molecular) paternity data, capture-mark-recapture analysis, and survival analysis.  Finally, the results may bridge some gaps between typical approaches in empirical and theoretical studies of natural selection.', u'Species achieve evolutionary innovations through two major genetic mechanisms, namely regulatory- and structural-level mutations. The ability of populations to evolve involves a balance between selection, genetic drift, epistasis, biochemical and biophysical requirements, thermodynamic properties and other factors. This adaptive diversity begs the question as to whether a restricted pathway governs adaptations or whether multiple pathways are possible to achieve an adaptive response. By combining a unique set of tools drawn from synthetic biology, evolutionary biology and genomics, we experimentally evolved and then characterized the adaptive properties of a modern E. coli strain containing a 700 million-year-old reconstructed ancestral Elongation Factor Tu (EF-Tu) gene inserted into its genome for the first time. We then tracked the evolutionary steps taken by the ancient-modern hybrid microorganism through laboratory evolution by monitoring genomic mutations. This study reveals that lineages respond to the ancient gene by increasing the expression levels of the maladapted protein, rather than through direct accumulation of mutations in the open reading frame. In particular, these findings show that the general strategy for the bacteria to adapt to the ancient protein is to accumulate mutations in the cis-regulatory region; gene-coding mutations appear to preclude rapid adaptation upon integration of the ancient gene for our system.', u'For many traits and common human diseases, causal loci uncovered by genetic association studies account for little of the known heritable variation. Such \u2032 missing heritability \u2032 may be due to the effect of non-additive interactions between multiple loci, but this has been little explored and difficult to test using existing parametric approaches. We propose a Bayesian non-parametric Gaussian Process Regression model, for identifying associated loci in the presence of interactions of arbitrary order. We analysed 46 quantitative yeast phenotypes and found that over 70% of the total known missing heritability could be explained using common genetic variants, many without significant marginal effects. Additional analysis of an immunological rat phenotype identified a three SNP interaction model providing a significantly better fit  (p-value 9.0e-11) than the null model incorporating only the single marginally significant SNP. This new approach, called GPMM, represents a significant advance in approaches to understanding the missing heritability problem with potentially important implications for studies of complex, quantitative traits.', u'Summary: With the emergence of large-scale Cap Analysis of Gene Expression data sets from individual labs and the FANTOM consortium, one can now analyze the cis-regulatory regions associated with gene transcription at an unprecedented level of refinement. By coupling transcription factor binding site (TFBS) enrichment analysis with CAGE-derived cis-regulatory regions, CAGEd-oPOSSUM can identify TFs that act as key regulators of genes involved in specific mammalian cell and tissue types. The webtool allows for the analysis of CAGE-derived transcription start sites (TSSs) either (i) provided by the user or (ii) selected from ~1,300 mammalian samples from the FANTOM5 project with pre-computed TFBS predicted with JASPAR TF binding profiles. The tool can help power insights into the transcriptional regulation of genes through the study of the specific usage of TSSs within specific cell types and/or under specific conditions. \n\nAvailability and implementation: The CAGEd-oPOSUM web tool is implemented in Perl, MySQL, and Apache and is available at http://cagedop.cmmt.ubc.ca/CAGEd_oPOSSUM. The source code is freely available from GitHub at https://github.com/wassermanlab/CAGEd-oPOSSUM.', u'Molecular chaperones, also known as heat-shock proteins, refold misfolded proteins and help other proteins reach their native conformation. Thanks to these abilities, some chaperones, such as the Hsp90 protein or the chaperonin GroEL, can buffer the deleterious phenotypic effects of mutations that alter protein structure and function. Hsp70 chaperones use a chaperoning mechanism different from Hsp90 and GroEL, and it is not known whether they can also buffer mutations. Here, we show that they can. To this end, we performed a mutation accumulation experiment in Escherichia coli, followed by whole-genome resequencing. Our sequence data shows that overexpression of the Hsp70 chaperone DnaK increases the tolerance of its clients for nonsynonymous nucleotide substitutions and nucleotide insertions and deletions. We also show that this elevated mutational buffering on short evolutionary time scales translates into differences in evolutionary rates on intermediate and long evolutionary time scales. To this end, we compared the evolutionary rates of DnaK clients and nonclients using the genomes of E. coli, Salmonella typhimurium, and 83 other gamma-proteobacterial species. We find that clients that interact strongly with DnaK evolve faster than weakly interacting clients. Our results imply that all three major chaperone classes can buffer mutations and affect protein evolution. They illustrate how an individual protein like a chaperone can have a disproportionate effect on proteome evolution.', u'We describe Boiler, a new software tool for compressing and querying large collections of RNA-seq alignments. Boiler discards most per-read data, keeping only a genomic coverage vector plus a few empirical distributions summarizing the alignments. Since most per-read data is discarded, storage footprint is often much smaller than that achieved by other compression tools. Despite this, the most relevant per-read data can be recovered; we show that Boiler compression has only a slight negative impact on results given by downstream tools for isoform assembly and quantitation. Boiler also allows the user to pose fast and useful related queries without decompressing the entire file. Boiler is free open source software available from github.com/jpritt/boiler.', u'The field of next generation sequencing informatics has matured to a point where algorithmic advances in sequence alignment and individual feature detection methods have stabilized. Practical and robust implementation of complex analytical workflows (where such tools are structured into "best practices" for automated analysis of NGS datasets) still requires significant programming investment and expertise.\nWe present Kronos, a software platform for automating the development and execution of reproducible, auditable and distributable bioinformatics workflows. Kronos obviates the need for explicit coding of workflows by compiling a text configuration file into executable Python applications. The framework of each workflow includes a run manager to execute the encoded workflows locally (or on a cluster or cloud), parallelize tasks, and log all runtime events. Resulting workflows are highly modular and configurable by construction, facilitating flexible and extensible meta-applications which can be modified easily through configuration file editing. The workflows are fully encoded for ease of distribution and can be instantiated on external systems, promoting and facilitating reproducible research and comparative analyses. We introduce a framework for building Kronos components which function as shareable, modular nodes in Kronos workflows.\nThe Kronos platform provides a standard framework for developers to implement custom tools, reuse existing tools, and contribute to the community at large. Kronos is shipped with both Docker and Amazon AWS machine images. It is free, open source and available through PyPI (Python Package Index) and https://github.com/jtaghiyar/kronos.\nKeywords: genomics; workflow; pipeline; reproducibility', u'Oxidative damage could be caused in plant cells when biotic and abiotic stresses are imposed. While the response to oxidative stress is well studied, little is known about how the activated response is switched off when oxidative stress is diminished. By studying Arabidopsis mutant paraquat tolerance3, we identified the genetic locus PARAQUAT TOLERANCE3 (PQT3) as a major negative regulator of oxidative stress tolerance. PQT3, encoding an E3 ligase, is rapidly down-regulated by oxidative stress. PQT3 has E3 ubiquitin ligase activity in ubiquitination assay. Subsequently, we identified PRMT4b as a PQT3-interacting protein. By histone methylation, PRMT4b may regulate the expression of APX1 and GPX1, encoding two key enzymes against oxidative stress. Moreover, PQT3 is able to recognize PRMT4b for targeted degradation via 26S proteasome. Therefore, we have identified PQT3 as an E3 ligase that acts as a negative regulator of activated response to oxidative stress.', u'Essential genes refer to those whose null mutation leads to lethality or sterility.  We propose that the fatal effect of inactivating an essential gene can be attributed to either the loss of indispensable core cellular function (type I), or the gain of fatal side effects after losing dispensable periphery function (type II).  In principle, inactivation of the type I essential genes can be rescued only by re-gain of the core functions, whereas inactivation of the type II essential genes could be rescued by a further loss of function of another gene to eliminate the otherwise fatal side effects.  Because such loss-of-function rescuing mutations may occur spontaneously, type II essential genes may become non-essential in a few individuals of a large population.  We tested this idea in the yeast Sacchromyces cerevisiae.  Large-scale whole genome sequencing of such essentiality-reversing mutants reveals 14 cases where inactivation of an essential gene is rescued by loss-of-function mutations on another gene.  In particular, the essential gene encoding the enzyme adenylosuccinate lyase (ADSL) is shown to be type II, suggesting a loss-of-function therapeutic strategy for the human disorder ADSL deficiency.  A proof-of-principle test of this strategy in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans shows promising results.', u'Accurate knowledge on the core components of substitution rates is of vital importance to understand genome evolution and dynamics. By performing a single-genome and direct analysis of 39894 retrotransposon remnants, we reveal germline sequence-dependent nucleotide substitution rates that can be assigned to each position in the human genome. Benefiting from the data made available in such detail, we show that a simulated genome, generated by equilibrating a random DNA sequence solely using our rate constants, exhibits nucleotide organisation close to that in the human genome. We next generate the germline basal substitution propensity (BSP) profile of the human genome and show a decreased tendency of moieties with low BSP to undergo somatic mutations in many cancer types.', u'We report an updated method for inferring the time at which an infectious disease was transmitted between persons from a time-labelled pathogen genome phylogeny. We applied the method to 48 Mycobacterium tuberculosis genomes as part of a real-time public health outbreak investigation, demonstrating that although active tuberculosis (TB) cases were diagnosed through 2013, no transmission events took place beyond mid-2012. Subsequent cases were the result of progression from latent TB infection to active disease and not recent transmission. This evolutionary genomic approach was used to declare the outbreak over in January 2015.', u'Overtreatment of early-stage low-risk prostate cancer patients represents a significant problem in disease management and has significant socio-economic implications. Development of genetic and molecular markers of clinically significant disease in patients diagnosed with low grade localized prostate cancer would have a major impact in disease management. A gene expression signature (GES) is reported for lethal prostate cancer in biopsy specimens obtained at the time of diagnosis from patients with Gleason 6 and Gleason 7 tumors in a Swedish watchful waiting cohort with up to 30 years follow-up. A 98-genes GES identified 89% and 100% of all death events 4 years after diagnosis in Gleason 7 and Gleason 6 patients, respectively; at 6 years follow-up, 83% and 100% of all deaths events were captured in Gleason 7 and Gleason 6 patients, respectively. Remarkably, the 98-genes GES appears to perform successfully in patients stratification with as little as 2% of cancer cells in a specimen, strongly indicating that it captures a malignant field effect in human prostates harboring cancer cells of different degrees of aggressiveness. In Gleason 6 and Gleason 7 tumors from prostate cancer patients of age 65 or younger, GES identified 86% of all death events during the entire follow-up period. In Gleason 6 and Gleason 7 tumors from prostate cancer patients of age 70 or younger, GES identified 90% of all death events 6 years after diagnosis. Classification performance of the reported in this study 98-genes GES of lethal prostate cancer appeared suitable to meet design and feasibility requirements of a prospective 4 to 6 years clinical trial, which is essential for regulatory approval of diagnostic and prognostic tests in clinical setting. Prospectively validated GES of lethal PC in biopsy specimens of Gleason 6 and Gleason 7 tumors will help physicians to identify, at the time of diagnosis, patients who should be considered for exclusion from active surveillance programs and who would most likely benefit from immediate curative interventions.', u'Variation in the presence or absence of transposable element (TE) insertions is a significant source of inter-individual genetic variation. Here, we identified 23,095 TE presence/absence variants between 216 wild Arabidopsis accessions. Most variants are rare, however over two thirds of the common alleles identified were not in linkage disequilibrium with nearby SNPs, implicating TE variants as a source of missing heritability. Some TE variants were associated with altered expression of nearby genes, with potential functional consequences including decreased pathogen resistance. The majority of inter-accession DNA methylation differences were associated with nearby TE variants, indicating an important role in facilitating epigenomic variation. Examination of TE regulation following crosses between parents with differential TE content revealed that absence of individual TEs from the paternal genome is associated with DNA demethylation within maternal copies of these TEs in the embryo, suggesting parental TE variation may enable activation of previously silent TEs.', u'Continued advancements in sequencing technologies have fueled the development of new sequencing applications and promise to flood current databases with raw data. A number of factors prevent the seamless and easy use of these data, including the breadth of project goals, the wide array of tools that individually perform fractions of any given analysis, the large number of associated software/hardware dependencies, and the detailed expertise required to perform these analyses. To address these issues, we have developed an intuitive web-based environment with a wide assortment of integrated and cutting-edge bioinformatics tools. These preconfigured workflows provide even novice next-generation sequencing users with the ability to perform many complex analyses with only a few mouse clicks, and, within the context of the same environment, to visualize and further interrogate their results. This bioinformatics platform is an initial attempt at Empowering the Development of Genomics Expertise (EDGE) in a wide range of applications.', u'Photosynthesis is sensitive to environmental stresses. How nuclear and plastid genome coordinate to cope with abiotic stress is not well understood. Here we report that ATHB17, an Arabidopsis HD-Zip transcription factor, coordinates the expression of nuclear encoded photosynthetic genes (NEPGs) and plastid encoded genes (PEGs) in response to abiotic stress. ATHB17-overexpressing plants display enhanced stress tolerance, whereas its knockout mutant is more sensitive compared to the wild type. Through RNA-seq analysis, we found that ATHB17 down-regulated many NEPGs while up-regulated a number of PEGs. ATHB17 could directly modulate the expression of several NEPGs by binding to their promoters. Furthermore, we identified ATSIG5, encoding a plastid sigma factor, as one of the target genes of ATHB17. Loss of ATSIG5 reduced salt tolerance while overexpression of ATSIG5 enhanced salt tolerance, similar to that of ATHB17. Taken together, our results reveal that ATHB17 is an important coordinator between NEPGs and PEGs partially through ATSIG5 to protect photosynthesis machinery in response to abiotic stresses.', u'Background: The role of Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) alleles in colorectal cancer susceptibility, development and progression is the focus of ongoing scrutiny. MHC polymorphisms in a Sudanese family with hereditary colorectal cancer were studied using an in silico approach and the results were verified using The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). In this family study, we tested for sharing of nucleotide polymorphisms identified by whole exome capture in major histocompatibility complex region and carried out in-silico prediction of their effects in tumor and control samples. SNPs were analyzed to highlight identical by state sharing, to identify runs of homozygosity, as well as to predict structural and functional effects using homology modeling, damaging effect predictions, and regulatory changes prediction.  \nResults: MHC II area showed significantly high degree of homozygosity in tumor samples. Non-synonymous SNPs shared identical by state (IBS) between tumor samples were predicted to affect HLA-DQB1 binding groove. A similar haplotype of these SNPs was identified in a TCGA colonic adenocarcinoma tumor sample. No significant regulatory effects (in the form of transcription factor or miRNA binding site variants) were predicted. \nConclusions: The results demonstrate IBS SNP sharing of markers affecting HLA-DQB1 binding specificity and probable loss of heterozygosity in MHC II region in colorectal cancer.', u'We present a computational framework, called DISCERN (DIfferential SparsE Regulatory Network), to identify informative topological changes in gene-regulator dependence networks inferred on the basis of mRNA expression datasets within distinct biological states.  DISCERN takes two expression datasets as input:  an expression dataset of diseased tissues from patients with a disease of interest and another expression dataset from matching normal tissues.  DISCERN estimates the extent to which each gene is perturbed - having distinct regulator connectivity in the inferred gene-regulatory dependencies between the disease and normal conditions.  This approach has distinct advantages over existing methods.  First, DISCERN infers conditional dependencies between candidate regulators and genes, where conditional dependence relationships discriminate the evidence for direct interactions from indirect interactions more precisely than pairwise correlation.  Second, DISCERN uses a new likelihood-based scoring function to alleviate concerns about accuracy of the specific edges inferred in a particular network.  DISCERN identifies perturbed genes more accurately in synthetic data than existing methods to identify perturbed genes between distinct states.  In expression datasets from patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML), breast cancer and lung cancer, genes with high DISCERN scores in each cancer are enriched for known tumor drivers, genes associated with the biological processes known to be important in the disease, and genes associated with patient prognosis, in the respective cancer.  Finally, we show that DISCERN can uncover potential mechanisms underlying network perturbation by explaining observed epigenomic activity patterns in cancer and normal tissue types more accurately than alternative methods, based on the available epigenomic from the ENCODE project.', u"Human aging is associated with cognitive decline and an increased risk of neurodegenerative disease. We assessed age-related brain gene expression by analyzing the Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) data from 2,522 tissue samples across 13 brain regions in 169 donors of European descent aged between 20 and 70 years. After controlling for covariates and hidden confounding factors, we identified 1,446 protein-coding genes whose expression in one or more brain regions is correlated or anti-correlated with chronological age at a false discovery rate of 5%. These genes are involved in various biological processes including apoptosis, mRNA splicing, amino acid biosynthesis, and neurotransmitter transport. The distribution of these genes among brain regions is markedly uneven, suggesting a variable brain region-specific response to aging. The aging response of many genes, e.g., TP37 and C1QA, is dependent on individuals' genotypic backgrounds. Finally, using dispersion-specific analysis, we identified genes, e.g., IL7R, MS4A4E, and TERF1/TERF2, whose expression is differentially dispersed by aging, i.e., variances differ between age groups. Our results demonstrate that age-related gene expression is brain region-specific, genotype-dependent, and associated with both mean and dispersion changes. Our findings provide a foundation for more sophisticated gene expression modeling in the studies of age-related neurodegenerative diseases.", u'Whole-chromosome aneuploidy is a hallmark of human malignancies.  The prevalence of chromosome segregation errors in cancer - first noted more than 100 years ago - has led to the widespread belief that aneuploidy plays a crucial role in tumor development.  Here, we set out to test this hypothesis.  We transduced congenic euploid and trisomic fibroblasts with 14 different oncogenes or oncogene combinations, thereby creating genetically-matched cancer cell lines that differ only in karyotype.  Surprisingly, nearly all aneuploid cell lines divided slowly in vitro, formed few colonies in soft agar, and grew poorly as xenografts, relative to matched euploid lines.  Similar results were obtained when comparing a near-diploid human colorectal cancer cell line with derivatives of that line that harbored extra chromosomes.  Only a few aneuploid lines grew at close to wild-type levels, and no aneuploid line exhibited greater tumorigenic capabilities than its euploid counterpart.  These results demonstrate that rather than promoting tumorigenesis, aneuploidy, particularly single chromosome gains, can very often function as a tumor suppressor.  Moreover, our results suggest one potential way that cancers can overcome the tumor suppressive effects of aneuploidy: rapidly-growing aneuploid cell lines that had evolved in vitro or in vivo demonstrated recurrent karyotype changes that were absent from their euploid counterparts.  Thus, the genome-destabilizing effects of single-chromosome aneuploidy may facilitate the development of balanced, high-complexity karyotypes that are frequently found in advanced malignancies.', u'Linkage and association studies have mapped thousands of genomic regions that contribute to phenotypic variation, but narrowing these regions to the underlying causal genes and variants has proven much more challenging. Resolution of genetic mapping is limited by the recombination rate. We developed a method that uses CRISPR to build mapping panels with targeted recombination events. We tested the method by generating a panel with recombination events spaced along a yeast chromosome arm, mapping trait variation, and then targeting a high density of recombination events to the region of interest. Using this approach, we fine-mapped manganese sensitivity to a single polymorphism in the transporter Pmr1. Targeting recombination events to regions of interest allows us to rapidly and systematically identify causal variants underlying trait differences.', u'Forecasting and preventing rapid ecosystem state changes is important but hard to achieve without functionally relevant early warning indicators. Here we use metaproteomic analysis to identify protein biomarkers indicating a state change in an aquatic ecosystem resulting from detrital enrichment. In a 14-day field experiment, we used detritus (arthropod prey) to enrich replicate aquatic ecosystems formed in the water-filled pitcher-shaped leaves of the northern pitcher plant, Sarracenia purpurea. Shotgun metaproteomics using a translated, custom metagenomic database identified proteins, molecular pathways, and microbial taxa that differentiated control oligotrophic ecosystems that captured only ambient prey from eutrophic ecosystems that were experimentally enriched. The number of microbial taxa was comparable between treatments; however, taxonomic evenness was higher in the oligotrophic controls. Aerobic and facultatively anaerobic bacteria dominated control and enriched ecosystems, respectively. The molecular pathways and taxa identified in the enriched treatments were similar to those found in a wide range of enriched or polluted aquatic ecosystems and are derived from microbial processes that occur at the base of most detrital food webs. We encourage the use of metaproteomic pipelines to identify better early-warning indicators of impending changes from oligotrophic to eutrophic states in aquatic and other detrital-based ecosystems.', u'The rate of carbon uptake by land plants depends on the ratio of leaf-internal to ambient carbon dioxide partial pressures, here termed \u03c7. This quantity is a key determinant of both primary production and transpiration and the relationship between them. But current models for \u03c7 are empirical and incomplete, contributing to the many uncertainties afflicting model estimates and future projections of terrestrial carbon uptake. Here we show that a simple evolutionary optimality hypothesis generates functional relationships between \u03c7 and growth temperature, vapour pressure deficit and elevation that are precisely and quantitatively consistent with empirical \u03c7 values from a worldwide data set containing > 3500 stable carbon isotope measurements. A single global equation embodying these relationships then unifies the empirical light use efficiency model with the standard model of C3photosynthesis, and successfully predicts gross primary production as measured at flux sites. This achievement is notable because of the equation\u2032s simplicity (with just two parameters, both independently estimated) and applicability across biomes and plant functional types. Thereby it provides a theoretical underpinning, grounded in eco-evolutionary principles, for large-scale analysis of the CO2 and water exchanges between atmosphere and land.', u'Background\nFast, accurate and high-throughput detection of bacteria is in great demand. The present work was\nconducted to investigate the possibility of identifying both known and unknown bacterial strains from\nunassembled next-generation sequencing reads using custom-made guide trees.\nResults\nA program named StrainSeeker was developed that constructs a list of specific k-mers for each node\nof any given Newick-format tree and enables rapid identification of bacterial genomes within minutes.\nStrainSeeker has been tested and shown to successfully identify Escherichia coli strains from mixed\nsamples in less than 5 minutes. StrainSeeker can also identify bacterial strains from highly diverse\nmetagenomics samples. StrainSeeker is available at http://bioinfo.ut.ee/strainseeker.\nConclusions\nOur novel approach can be useful for both clinical diagnostics and research laboratories because\nnovel bacterial strains are constantly emerging and their fast and accurate detection is very important.', u"The introduction and concentration of electron donors and acceptors in the subsurface biosphere is controlled by the mixing of subsurface fluids, but the mechanisms and rates at which microbial communities respond to changes induced by fluid mixing and transport are relatively unknown. Subsurface microbial ecosystems whose estimated doubling times range from <1 to >3,000 years are often considered to be relatively static. Despite marked changes in geochemistry over a 1-year period, the bacterial community inhabiting a 1339 m below land surface (mbls) fracture (Be326) remained largely unchanged and exhibited PLFA isotopic signatures consistent with the accumulation of 13C-DIC impacted by the microbial oxidation of CH4. These CH4 oxidizing (MO) bacteria and archaea are an essential link between the Be326 subsurface carbon cycle and microbial community and were hypothesized to contain members of the community that are most sensitive to environmental change. To evaluate this hypothesis, we used a combination of high throughput sequence analysis methods (DNA, RNA, and protein) and geochemical monitoring of Be326's in situ fracture fluids over the course of both longer (2.5 year) and shorter (2-week) timescales and validated our findings through a series of 13C-CH4 laboratory enrichment experiments. We show that Be326's MO organisms responded to changes in electron donor and acceptor availability in their natural subsurface habitat and under laboratory conditions over extended periods of time. These results provide the most definitive evidence to date that, like the marine subsurface, CH4 oxidation occurs and is an integral component of the deep terrestrial subsurface carbon cycle. Further, the responsiveness of this component of the microbial community to changes in geochemistry illustrates a more dynamic subsurface ecosystem than previously understood.", u'Fluorescent protein tags are fundamental tools used to visualize gene products and analyze their dynamics in vivo. Recent advances in genome editing have enabled precise insertion of fluorescent protein tags into the genomes of diverse organisms. These advances expand the potential of in vivo imaging experiments, and they facilitate experimentation with new, bright, photostable fluorescent proteins. Most quantitative comparisons of the brightness and photostability of different fluorescent proteins have been made in vitro, removed from biological variables that govern their performance in cells or organisms. To address the gap we quantitatively assessed fluorescent protein properties in vivo in an animal model system. We generated transgenic C. elegans strains expressing green, yellow, or red fluorescent proteins in embryos, and we imaged embryos expressing different fluorescent proteins under the same conditions for direct comparison. We found that mNeonGreen was not bright in vivo as predicted based on in vitro data, but that mNeonGreen is a better tag than GFP for specific kinds of experiments, and we report on optimal red fluorescent proteins. These results identify ideal fluorescent proteins for imaging in vivo in C. elegans embryos, and they suggest good candidate fluorescent proteins to test in other animal model systems.', u'Genomic and epigenomic studies require the precise transfer of small volumes from one container to another. Epigenomic and transcriptional analysis require separation of purified cell types, and long term preservation of cells requires their isolation and transfer into appropriate freezing media. There are currently no protocols for these procedures on the ISS. Currently samples are either frozen as mixed cell populations, with poor yield, or returned under ambient conditions, requiring timing with Soyuz missions. Here, we evaluate the feasibility of translating terrestrial cell purification techniques to the ISS. Our evaluations were performed in microgravity conditions during parabolic atmospheric flight. The pipetting of open liquids in microgravity was evaluated using analog blood fluids and several types of pipette hardware. The best performing pipettes were used to evaluate the pipetting steps required for peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) isolation via density gradient centrifugation (DGC). Evaluation of actual blood products was performed for both the overlay of diluted blood, and the extraction of isolated PBMCs. We also validated magnetic purification of cells. We found that positive displacement pipettes avoided air bubbles, and the tips allowed the strong surface tension of water, glycerol and blood to maintain a patent meniscus and withstand robust pipetting in microgravity. These procedures will greatly increase the breadth of research that can be performed onboard the ISS, and allow improvised experimentation on extraterrestrial missions.', u'Understanding why so many species are rare yet persistent remains a significant challenge for both theoretical and empirical ecologists. Yenni, Adler, and Ernest (2012) proposed that strong negative frequency dependence causes species to be rare while simultaneously buffering them against extinction. This hypothesis predicts that, on average, rare species should experience stronger negative frequency dependence than common species. However, it is unknown if ecological communities generally show this theoretical pattern, or if rarity is primarily determined by other processes that overwhelm the effects of strong negative frequency dependence. We discuss the implications of this mechanism for natural communities, and develop a method to test for a non-random relationship between negative frequency dependence and relative abundance, using species abundance data from 90 communities across a broad range of environments and taxonomic groups. To account for biases introduced by measurement error, we compared the observed correlation between species relative abundance and the strength of frequency dependence against expectations from a randomization procedure. In approximately half of the analyzed communities, rare species showed disproportionately strong negative frequency dependence compared to common species. Specifically, we found a pattern of increasingly strong negative frequency dependence with decreasing relative abundance. Our results suggest that strong negative frequency dependence is a signature of both rarity and persistence for many species in many communities.', u'Summary: Detecting periodicity in large scale data remains a challenge. Different algorithms offer strengths and weaknesses in statistical power, sensitivity to outliers, ease of use, and sampling requirements. While efforts have been made to identify best of breed algorithms, relatively little research has gone into integrating these methods in a generalizable method. Here we present MetaCycle, an R package that incorporates ARSER, JTK_CYCLE, and Lomb-Scargle to conveniently evaluate periodicity in time-series data.\nAvailability and implementation: MetaCycle package is available on the CRAN repository (https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/MetaCycle/index.html) and GitHub (https://github.com/gangwug/MetaCycle). \nContact: hogenesch@gmail.com\nSupplementary information: Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics online.', u'As genomics studies become more complex and consider multiple sources of biological and technical variation, characterizing these drivers of variation becomes essential to understanding disease biology and regulatory genetics.   We describe a statistical and visualization framework, variancePartition, to prioritize drivers of variation with a genome-wide summary, and identify genes that deviate from the genome-wide trend.  variancePartition enables rapid interpretation of complex gene expression studies and is applicable to many genomics assays.', u'Multiple functions of cells cultured on flat substrates have been shown to depend on the elastic modulus of the substrate, E, with the dependence being strongest in a physiological range of soft tissues, corresponding to E from 0.1 to 100 kPa. Among those functions are stem cell differentiation, cell spreading, and cell signaling [1]. In the context of differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), substrates with E in the ranges of <4 kPa, 8-17 kPa, and >25 kPa, have been classified as soft (adipogenic) [2,3], medium rigidity (myogenic)1, and hard (osteogenic) [1], respectively. In most studies, the soft substrates are hydrogels, and variations in their elastic moduli are usually accompanied by variations in the dry mass and porosity. The paradigm of the effect of substrate rigidity on the cellular functions has been challenged by Trappmann et al. [4], who claimed that cell spreading and differentiation on hydrogel substrates depend not on the elastic moduli of the substrates, but rather on their porosity, which affects the density of adhesion points between the substrate surface and the extracellular matrix (ECM) coating on it. This claim has been rebutted by Wen at al. [3], who have used hydrogel substrates with different porosities but identical elastic moduli to show that it is the elastic modulus rather than the porosity that is key to the effect of the substrate on cell spreading and differentiation. Both publications agree, however, that there is no appreciable effect of the substrate rigidity on either cell spreading or differentiation, if the substrate is made of a silicone gel rather than a hydrogel. This conclusion appears to contradict the findings of several other groups, who reported that when cells are plated on an array of flexible silicone microposts, their spreading and differentiation depend on the rigidity of the substrate [5], and that when cell are plated on silicone gels, their differentiation depends on the gel rigidity [6]. To resolve this contradiction, we used soft, medium, and hard silicone gel substrates with elastic moduli of 0.5, 16, and 64 kPa, respectively, (Fig.1) to perform experiments similar to those reported in Refs.4 and 3, testing the dependence of differentiation and spreading of MSCs and of spreading of fibroblasts and keratinocytes on the substrate rigidity.', u'Caenorhabditis elegans senses gentle touch via a mechanotransduction channel formed from the DEG/ENaC proteins MEC-4 and MEC-10.  An additional protein, the paraoxonase-like protein MEC-6, is essential for transduction, and previous work suggested that MEC-6 was part of the transduction complex.  We found that MEC-6 and a similar protein, POML-1, reside primarily in the endoplasmic reticulum and do not colocalize with MEC-4 on the plasma membrane in vivo. As with MEC-6, POML-1 is needed for touch sensitivity, for the neurodegeneration caused by the mec-4(d) mutation, and for the expression and distribution of MEC-4 in vivo. Both proteins are likely needed for the proper folding or assembly of MEC-4 channels in vivo as measured by FRET. MEC-6 detectably increases the rate of MEC-4 accumulation on the Xenopus oocyte plasma membrane.  These results suggest that MEC-6 and POML-1 interact with MEC-4 to facilitate expression and localization of MEC-4 on the cell surface. Thus, MEC-6 and POML-1 act more like chaperones for MEC-4 than channel components.', u'The African Great Lakes are characterized by an extraordinary diversity of endemic cichlid fish species. The cause of this diversity is still largely unknown. Most studies have tried to solve this question by focusing on macro-evolutionary processes, such as speciation. However, the ecological processes determining local cichlid diversity have so far been understudied, even though knowledge on these might be crucial for understanding larger scale biodiversity patterns. \nUsing trait, environmental and abundance data of cichlid fishes along 36 transects, we have studied how differences in local environmental conditions influence cichlid community assembly in the littoral of Lake Tanganyika, Zambia. We investigated changes in average trait values and in trait-based community assembly processes along three key environmental gradients. \nSpecies diversity and local abundance decreased with increasing sand cover and diet-associated traits changed with depth. Analyses on within-community trait diversity patterns indicated that cichlid community assembly was mainly driven by stochastic processes, to a smaller extent by processes that limit the similarity among co-existing species and least by filtering processes that limit the range of species traits occurring in an environment. Despite the low impact of habitat filtering processes, we find community dissimilarity to increase with increasing environmental difference.  \nOur results suggest that local environmental conditions determine cichlid abundance, while the predominance of stochastic community assembly across all environments explains why the communities with the highest abundances contain most species.', u'An increased knowledge of the genetic regulation of expression in Arabidopsis thaliana is likely to provide important insights about the basis of the plant\u2032s extensive phenotypic variation. Here, we reanalysed two publicly available datasets with genome-wide data on genetic and transcript variation in large collections of natural A. thaliana accessions. Transcripts from more than half of all genes were detected in the leaf of all accessions, and from nearly all annotated genes in at least one accession. Thousands of genes had high transcript levels in some accessions but no transcripts at all in others and this pattern was correlated with the genome-wide genotype. In total, 2,669 eQTL were mapped in the largest population, and 717 of them were replicated in the other population. 646 cis-eQTLs regulated genes that lacked detectable transcripts in some accessions, and for 159 of these we identified one, or several, common structural variants in the populations that were shown to be likely contributors to the lack of detectable RNA-transcripts for these genes. This study thus provides new insights on the overall genetic regulation of global gene-expression diversity in the leaf of natural A. thaliana accessions. Further, it also shows that strong cis-acting polymorphisms, many of which are likely to be structural variations, make important contributions to the transcriptional variation in the worldwide A. thaliana population.', u'Single-cell mRNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) allows to profile heterogeneous cell populations, offering exciting possibilities to tackle a variety of biological and medical questions. A range of methods has been recently developed, making it necessary to systematically compare their sensitivity, accuracy, precision and cost-efficiency.\nHere, we have generated and analyzed scRNA-seq data from 479 mouse ES cells and spike-in controls that were prepared with four different methods in two independent replicates each. We compare their sensitivity by the number of detected genes and by the efficiency with which they capture spiked-in mRNAs, their accuracy by correlating spiked-in mRNA concentrations with estimated expression levels, their precision by power simulations and variance decomposition and their efficiency by their costs to reach a given amount of power. While accuracy is similar for all methods, we find that Smart-seq on a microfluidic platform is the most sensitive method, CEL-seq is the most precise method and SCRB-seq and Drop-seq are the most efficient methods. Our analysis provides a solid basis to choose among four available scRNA-seq methods and to benchmark future method development.', u'Sood et al. report a multi-tissue RNA signature "predictive of human health, using only peripheral blood samples". We tested this score in blood in two independent, larger cohorts and found no associations with age or related phenotypes, including muscle strength, interleukin-6 or mortality.', u'Exosomes are small vesicles that are secreted from metazoan cells and may convey selected membrane proteins and small RNAs to target cells for the control of cell migration, development and metastasis. To study the mechanisms of RNA packaging into exosomes, we devised a purification scheme based on the membrane marker CD63 to isolate a single exosome species secreted from HEK293T cells. Using immunoisolated CD63-containing exosomes we identified a set of microRNAs that are highly enriched with respect to their cellular levels. To explore the biochemical requirements for exosome biogenesis and RNA packaging, we devised a cell-free reaction that recapitulates the species-selective enclosure of miR-223 in isolated membranes supplemented with cytosol. We found that the RNA-binding protein Y-box protein I (YBX1) binds to and is required for the sorting of miR-223 in the cell-free reaction. Furthermore, YBX1 serves an important role in the secretion of miRNAs in exosomes by HEK293T cells.', u'Are interactions with unrelated and even unknown individuals a by-product of modern life in megacities? Here we argue instead that social ties among non-kin are a crucial human adaptation. By deploying a new portable wireless sensing technology (motes), we mapped social networks in Agta and BaYaka hunter-gatherers in unprecedented detail. We show that strong friendships with non-kin optimize the global efficiency of their social networks thereby facilitating cultural exchange, and that the adaptation for forming friendship ties appears early in development. The ability to extend networks and form strong non-kin ties may explain some human distinctive characteristics such as hypersociality and cumulative culture, and the tendency to exchange ideas with unrelated and unknown individuals in megacities and online social networks.', u'Since most dramatic genomic changes are caused by genome rearrangements as well as gene duplications and gain/loss events, it becomes crucial to understand their mechanisms and reconstruct ancestral genomes of the given genomes. \nThis problem was shown to be NP-complete even in the "simplest" case of three genomes, thus calling for heuristic rather than exact algorithmic solutions. At the same time, a larger number of input genomes may actually simplify the problem in practice as it was earlier illustrated with MGRA, a state-of-the-art software tool for reconstruction of ancestral genomes of multiple genomes. \n\nOne of the key obstacles for MGRA and other similar tools is presence of breakpoint reuses when the same breakpoint region is broken by several different genome rearrangements in the course of evolution. Furthermore, such tools are often limited to genomes composed of the same genes with each gene present in a single copy in every genome. This limitation makes these tools inapplicable for many biological datasets and degrades the resolution of ancestral reconstructions in diverse datasets. \n\nWe address these deficiencies by extending the MGRA algorithm to genomes with unequal gene contents. The developed next-generation tool MGRA2 can handle gene gain/loss events and shares the ability of MGRA to reconstruct ancestral genomes uniquely in the case of limited breakpoint reuse. \nFurthermore, MGRA2 employs a number of novel heuristics to cope with higher breakpoint reuse and process datasets inaccessible for MGRA. In practical experiments, MGRA2 shows superior performance for simulated and real genomes as compared to other ancestral genomes reconstruction tools.\nThe MGRA2 tool is distributed as an open-source software and can be downloaded from GitHub repository http://github.com/ablab/mgra/. \nIt is also available in the form of a web-server at http://mgra.cblab.org, which makes it readily accessible for inexperienced users.', u"Monitoring changes in infectious disease incidence is fundamental to outbreak detection and response, intervention outcome monitoring, and identifying environmental correlates of transmission. In the case of dengue, little is known about how consistently surveillance data track disease burden in a population over time. Here we use four years of monthly dengue incidence data from three sources:  population-based ('passive') surveillance including suspected cases, 'sentinel' surveillance with 100% laboratory confirmation and complete reporting, and door-to-door ('cohort') surveillance conducted three times per week in Iquitos, Peru, to quantify their relative consistency and timeliness. Data consistency was evaluated using annual and monthly expansion factors (EFs) as cohort incidence divided by incidence in each surveillance system, to assess their reliability for estimating disease burden (annual) and monitoring disease trends (monthly). Annually, passive surveillance data more closely estimated cohort incidence (average annual EF=5) than did data from sentinel surveillance (average annual EF=19). Monthly passive surveillance data generally were more consistent (ratio of sentinel/passive EF standard deviations=2.2) but overestimated incidence in 26% (11/43) of months, most often during the second half of the annual high season as dengue incidence typically wanes from its annual peak. Increases in sentinel surveillance incidence were correlated temporally (correlation coefficient = 0.86) with increases in the cohort, while passive surveillance data were significantly correlated at both zero-lag and a one-month lag (0.63 and 0.44, respectively). Together these results suggest that, rather than relying on a single data stream, a clearer picture of changes in infectious disease incidence might be achieved by combining the timeliness of sentinel surveillance with the representativeness of passive surveillance.", u'Cas9 endonuclease can be targeted to genomic sequences by varying the sequence of the single guide RNA (sgRNA). The activity of these Cas9-sgRNA combinations varies widely at different genomic loci and in different cell types. Thus, disrupting genes in polyploid cell lines, or using inefficient sgRNAs, can require extensive downstream screening to identify homozygous clones. We have found that linear, non-homologous oligonucleotide DNA greatly stimulates Cas9-mediated gene disruption in the absence of homology-directed repair. This stimulation greatly increases the frequency of clones with homozygous gene disruptions, even in polyploid cell lines, and rescues otherwise ineffective sgRNAs. The mechanism of enhanced gene disruption differs between human cell lines, stimulating deletion of genomic sequence and/or insertion of non-homologous oligonucleotide DNA at the edited locus in a cell line specific manner.  Thus, the addition of non-homologous DNA appears to drive cells towards error-prone instead of error-free repair pathways, dramatically increasing the frequency of gene disruption.', u'The plastid genome retains several features from its cyanobacterial-like ancestor, one being the co-transcriptional organization of genes into operon-like structures. Some plastid operons have been identified but undoubtedly many more remain undiscovered. Here we utilize the highly variable plastome structure that exists within certain legumes of the inverted repeat lost clade (IRLC) to find conserved gene clusters. These plastomes exhibit an unusually high frequency of translocations and inversions. We analysed the plastomes of 23 legume species and identified 32 locally collinear blocks (LCBs), which are regions within the plastid genomes that occur in different orientation and/or order among the plastid genomes but are themselves free from internal rearrangements. Several represent gene clusters that have previously been recognized as plastid operons. It appears that the number of LCBs has reached saturation in our data set, suggesting that these LCBs are not random, but likely represent legume plastid operons protected from internal rearrangement by functional constraint. Some of the LCBs we identify, such as psbD/C/Z, are previously known plastid operons. Others, such as rpl32-ndhF-psbA-matK-rbcL-atpB-atpE, may represent novel polycistronic operons in legumes.', u'Chagas disease is a major cardiovascular affliction primarily endemic to Latin American countries, affecting some ten to twelve million people worldwide.  The currently available drugs, Benznidazole and Nifurtimox, are ineffective in the chronic stages and induce severe side effects.  In an attempt to improve this situation we use an in silico drug repurposing strategy to correlate drug-protein interactions with positive clinical outcomes. The strategy involves a protein functional site similarity search, along with computational docking studies and, given the findings, a phosphatidylinositol (PIP) strip test to determine the activity of Posaconazole, a recently developed antifungal triazole, in conjunction with Tiam1, a Rho GTPase Guanine Nucleotide Exchange Factor.  The results from both computational and in vitro studies indicate possible inhibition of phosphoinositides via Posaconazole, preventing Rho GTPase-induced proliferation of T. cruzi, the etiological agent of Chagas Disease.', u"Recent studies of 'unconscious working memory' have challenged the notion that only visible stimuli can be actively maintained over time. In the present study, we investigated the neural dynamics of subliminal maintenance using multivariate pattern analyses of magnetoencephalography recordings (MEG). Subjects were presented with a masked Gabor patch whose angle had to be briefly memorized. We show with an unprecedented level of precision, that irrelevant sensory features of contrast, frequency and phase are only encoded transiently. Conversely, the relevant feature of angle is encoded and maintained in a distributed and dynamically changing manner throughout the brief retention period. Furthermore, although the visibility of the stimulus correlates with an amplification of late neural codes, we show that unseen stimuli can be partially maintained in the corresponding neural assemblies. Together, these results invalidate several predictions of current neuronal theories of visual awareness and suggest that visual perception relies on a long sequence of neural assemblies that repeatedly recode and maintain task-relevant features at multiple levels of processing, even under unconscious conditions.", u'Metapopulation theory developed in terrestrial ecology provides applicable frameworks for interpreting the role of local and regional processes in shaping species distribution patterns. Yet, empirical testing of metapopulation models on microbial communities is essentially lacking. Here we determined regional bacterioplankton dynamics from monthly transect sampling in the Baltic Sea Proper (16 sites, 11 occasions, 2010-2011) using 16S rRNA gene pyrosequencing. A strong positive correlation was found between local relative abundance and occupancy of populations. Notably, the occupancy-frequency distributions (the number of populations occupying different number of sites) were significantly bimodal with a satellite mode of mostly rare endemic populations and a core mode of abundant cosmopolitan populations (e.g. Synechococcus, SAR11 and SAR86 clade members). Observed temporal changes in population distributions supported theoretical predictions that stochastic variation in local extinction and colonization rates accounted for observed bimodality. Moreover, bimodality was found for bacterioplankton across the entire Baltic Sea, and was also frequent in globally distributed datasets where average Bray-Curtis distances were significantly different between bimodal and non-bimodal datasets. Still, datasets spanning waters with distinct physicochemical characteristics or environmental gradients, e.g. brackish and marine or surface to deep waters, typically lacked significant bimodal patterns. When such datasets were divided into subsets with coherent environmental conditions, bimodal patterns emerged, highlighting the importance of positive feedbacks between local abundance and occupancy within specific biomes. Thus, metapopulation theory applied to microbial biogeography can provide novel insights into the mechanisms governing shifts in biodiversity resulting from natural or anthropogenically induced changes in the environment.', u'Interactions between taxa are essential drivers of ecological community structure and dynamics, but they are not taken into account by traditional indices of diversity. In this study, we propose a novel family of indices that quantify community similarity in the context of taxa interaction networks. Using publicly available datasets, we assess the performance of two specific indices which are Taxa INteraction-Adjusted (TINA, based on taxa co-occurrence networks), and Phylogenetic INteraction-Adjusted (PINA, based on phylogenetic similarities). TINA and PINA outperformed traditional indices when partitioning human-associated microbial communities according to habitat, even for extremely downsampled datasets, and when organising ocean micro-eukaryotic plankton diversity according to geographical and physicochemical gradients. We argue that interaction-adjusted indices capture novel aspects of diversity outside the scope of traditional approaches, highlighting the biological significance of ecological association networks in the interpretation of community similarity.', u'Plant diversity surely determines arthropod diversity, but only moderate correlations between arthropod and plant species richness had been observed until Basset et al. (2012, Science 338: 1481-1484) finally undertook an unprecedentedly comprehensive sampling of a tropical forest and demonstrated that plant species richness could indeed accurately predict arthropod species richness. We now require a high-throughput pipeline to operationalize this result so that we can (1) test competing explanations for tropical arthropod megadiversity, (2) improve estimates of global eukaryotic species diversity, and (3) use plant and arthropod communities as efficient proxies for each other, thus improving the efficiency of conservation planning and of detecting forest degradation and recovery. We therefore applied metabarcoding to Malaise-trap samples across two tropical landscapes in China. We demonstrate that plant species richness can accurately predict arthropod (mostly insect) species richness and that plant and insect community compositions are highly correlated, even in landscapes that are large, heterogeneous, and anthropogenically modified. Finally, we review how metabarcoding makes feasible highly replicated tests of the major competing explanations for tropical megadiversity.', u'Usutu and Zika viruses are emerging arboviruses of significant medical and veterinary importance. These viruses have not been studied as well as other medically important arboviruses such as West Nile, dengue, or chikungunya viruses. As such, information regarding the behavior of Zika and Usutu viruses in the laboratory is dated. Usutu virus re-emerged in Austria in 2001 and has since spread throughout the European and Asian continents causing significant mortality among birds. Zika virus has recently appeared in the Americas and has exhibited unique characteristics of pathogenesis, including birth defects, and transmission. Information about the characteristics of Usutu and Zika viruses are needed to better understand the transmission, dispersal, and adaptation of these viruses in new environments.  Since their initial characterization in the middle of last century, technologies and reagents have been developed that could enhance our abilities to study these pathogens. Currently, standard laboratory methods for these viruses are limited to 2-3 cell lines and many assays take several days to generate meaningful data. The goal of this study was to characterize these viruses in cell culture to provide some basic parameters to further their study.  Cell lines from 17 species were permissive to both Zika and Usutu viruses. These viruses were able to replicate to significant titers in most of the cell lines tested. Moreover, cytopathic effects were observed in 8 of the cell lines tested. The data show that, unlike other flaviviruses, neither Zika nor Usutu viruses require an acidic environment to fuse with a host cell. This may provide a tool to help characterize events or components in the flavivirus fusion process. These data indicate that a variety of cell lines can be used to study Zika and Usutu viruses and may provide an updated foundation for the study of host-pathogen interactions, model development, and the development of therapeutics.', u'Despite the recent progress in sequencing technologies, genome-wide association studies (GWAS) remain limited by a statistical-power issue: many polymorphisms contribute little to common trait variation and therefore escape detection. The small contribution sometimes corresponds to incomplete penetrance, which may result from probabilistic effects on molecular regulations. In such cases, genetic mapping may benefit from the wealth of data produced by single-cell technologies. We present here the development of a novel genetic mapping method that allows to scan genomes for single-cell Probabilistic Trait Loci that modify the statistical properties of cellular-level quantitative traits. Phenotypic values are acquired on thousands of individual cells, and genetic association is obtained from a multivariate analysis of a matrix of Kantorovich distances. No prior assumption is required on the mode of action of the genetic loci involved and, by exploiting all single-cell values, the method can reveal non-deterministic effects. Using both simulations and yeast experimental datasets, we show that it can detect linkages that are missed by classical genetic mapping. A probabilistic effect of a single SNP on cell shape was detected and validated. The method also detected a novel locus associated with elevated gene expression noise of the yeast galactose regulon. Our results illustrate how single-cell technologies can be exploited to improve the genetic dissection of certain common traits.', u'Patient interactions with health care providers result in entries to electronic health records (EHRs). EHRs were built for clinical and billing purposes but contain many data points about an individual. Mining these records provides opportunities to extract electronic phenotypes that can be paired with genetic data to identify genes underlying common human diseases. This task remains challenging: high quality phenotyping is costly and requires physician review; many fields in the records are sparsely filled; and our definitions of diseases are continuing to improve over time. Here we develop and evaluate a semi-supervised learning method for EHR phenotype extraction using denoising autoencoders for phenotype stratification. By combining denoising autoencoders with random forests we find classification improvements across simulation models, particularly in cases where only a small number of patients have high quality phenotype. This situation is commonly encountered in research with EHRs. Denoising autoencoders perform dimensionality reduction allowing visualization and clustering for the discovery of new subtypes of disease. This method represents a promising approach to clarify disease subtypes and improve genotype-phenotype association studies that leverage EHRs.', u'Recent large-scale studies have identified multiple genetic risk factors for mental illness and indicate a complex, polygenic, and pleiotropic genetic architecture for neuropsychiatric disease. However, little is known about how genetic variants yield brain dysfunction or pathology. We use transcriptomic profiling as an unbiased, quantitative readout of molecular phenotypes across 5 major psychiatric disorders, including autism (ASD), schizophrenia (SCZ), bipolar disorder (BD), depression (MDD), and alcoholism (AAD), compared with carefully matched controls. We identify a clear pattern of shared and distinct gene-expression perturbations across these conditions, identifying neuronal gene co-expression modules downregulated across ASD, SCZ, and BD, and astrocyte related modules most prominently upregulated in ASD and SCZ. Remarkably, the degree of sharing of transcriptional dysregulation was strongly related to polygenic (SNP-based) overlap across disorders, indicating a significant genetic component. These findings provide a systems-level view of the neurobiological architecture of major neuropsychiatric illness and demonstrate pathways of molecular convergence and specificity.', u"The complex language of eukaryotic gene expression remains incompletely understood. Despite the importance suggested by many noncoding variants statistically associated with human disease, nearly all such variants have unknown mechanism. Here, we address this challenge using an approach based on a recent machine learning advance--deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs). We introduce an open source package Basset (https://github.com/davek44/Basset) to apply CNNs to learn the functional activity of DNA sequences from genomics data. We trained Basset on a compendium of accessible genomic sites mapped in 164 cell types by DNaseI-seq and demonstrate far greater predictive accuracy than previous methods. Basset predictions for the change in accessibility between variant alleles were far greater for GWAS SNPs that are likely to be causal relative to nearby SNPs in linkage disequilibrium with them. With Basset, a researcher can perform a single sequencing assay in their cell type of interest and simultaneously learn that cell's chromatin accessibility code and annotate every mutation in the genome with its influence on present accessibility and latent potential for accessibility. Thus, Basset offers a powerful computational approach to annotate and interpret the noncoding genome.", u'Iqbal et al. (Nature Genetics, 2012) introduced the colored de Bruijn graph, a variant of the classic de Bruijn graph, which is aimed at "detecting and genotyping simple and complex genetic variants in an individual or population". Because they are intended to be applied to massive population level data, it is essential that the graphs be represented efficiently. Unfortunately, current succinct de Bruijn graph representations are not directly applicable to the colored de Bruijn graph, which require additional information to be succinctly encoded as well as support for non-standard traversal operations. Our data structure dramatically reduces the amount of memory required to store and use the colored de Bruijn graph, with some penalty to runtime, allowing it to be applied in much larger and more ambitious sequence projects than was previously possible.', u'CRISPR/Cas9 system has become a new versatile technology for genome engineering. It utilizes a single guide RNA (sgRNA) to recognize target sequences in genome function, and activates Cas9 endonucleases to cut the locus. In this study, we designed two target sites from conserved regions of vitamin D receptor (VDR) gene in mammalian cells, which cover more than 17 kb of chromosome region depending on the species. The efficacy of single sgRNA mediated gene specific modification was about 22% to 36%. Concurrently, targeted deletions of the intervening genomic segments were generated in chromosomes when the two sgRNAs worked simultaneously. The large genomic DNA segments ranging from 17.8Kb to 23.4 Kb could be precisely deleted in human and mouse chromosomes. Furthermore, the expression level of 24-hydroxylase (CYP24A1) regulated by VDR was significantly increased in cells treated with VDR CRISPR/Cas9 vectors. This study showed that CRISPR/Cas9 system can be employed to generate large genomic segment deletions in different species, providing sgRNAs are designed within conserved regions.', u'Poorly differentiated round cell sarcomas present diagnostic challenges due to their variable morphology and lack of specific immunophenotypic markers. We present a case of a 15-year-old female with a tibial tumor that exhibited features of Ewing-like sarcoma, including apparent rearrangement of the EWSR1 gene. Hybridization capture-based next-generation DNA sequencing showed evidence of complex genomic rearrangements, absence of known pathogenic Ewing-like chromosome translocations, and mutations of genes including RB1, ATRX, and PTCH1, supporting the diagnosis of osteosarcoma. This illustrates the potential of clinical genomic profiling to improve diagnosis and enable specifically targeted therapies for cancers with complex pathologies.', u'There is mounting evidence that complex human phenotypes are highly polygenic, with many loci harboring multiple causal variants, yet most genetic association studies examine each SNP in isolation. While this has lead to the discovery of thousands of disease associations, discovered variants account for only a small fraction of disease heritability. Alternative multi-SNP methods have been proposed, but issues such as multiple testing correction, sensitivity to genotyping error, and optimization for the underlying genetic architectures remain. Here we describe a local joint testing procedure, complete with multiple testing correction, that leverages a genetic phenomenon we call linkage masking wherein linkage disequilibrium between SNPs hides their signal under standard association methods. We show that local joint testing on the original Wellcome Trust Case Control Consortium dataset leads to the discovery of 29% more associated loci that were later found in followup studies containing thousands of additional individuals. These loci double the heritability explained by genome-wide significant associations in the WTCCC dataset, implicating linkage masking as a novel source of missing heritability. Furthermore, we show that local joint testing in a cis-eQTL study of the gEUVADIS dataset increases the number of genes discovered by 10.7% over marginal analyses. Our multiple hypothesis correction and joint testing framework are available in a python software package called jester, available at github.com/brielin/ Jester.', u'The mcr-1 gene, which confers resistance against the last-resort antimicrobial colistin, was recently discovered in Enterobacteriaceae circulating in China. Through genome sequencing we identified a plasmid-associated inactive form of mcr-1 in a 2008 Vietnamese isolate of Shigella sonnei. The plasmid was conjugated into E. coli and mcr-1 was activated upon exposure to colistin, suggesting the gene has been circulating in human-restricted pathogens for some time but carries a selective fitness cost.', u'Zika is a fast spreading epidemic. So far it is known to have two transmission routes\none via mosquito and the other is via sexual contact. It is dangerous on pregnant women\notherwise it is mild', u"Aim. The standard latitudinal diversity gradient (LDG), in which species richness decreases from equator to pole, is a pervasive pattern observed in most groups of organisms. Despite its commonness, an increasing number of non-conforming lineages have been identified, presenting a challenge for general explanations of the standard LDG. Although problematic, documenting and studying these contrarian groups can help us to better understand LDGs generally. To that end we identify the ant tribe Stenammini, a diverse lineage with over 400 species, as a contrarian clade, and we attempt to explain the group's atypical diversity pattern using a historical approach. We evaluate the following alternative hypotheses: time-for-speciation/center-of-origin (TFS/COO), niche conservatism, and differences in diversification rate.\n\nLocation. Global.\n\nMethods. We examine the shape of the LDG in Stenammini by plotting latitudinal midpoints for all extant species. We then infer a robust phylogeny using a phylogenomic approach that employs ultraconserved element loci and we use the phylogeny to estimate divergence dates, biogeographic history, and ancestral habitats. We also test for diversification rate heterogeneity across the tree and among lineages within the tribe.\n\nResults. Stenammini has a skewed inverse latitudinal diversity gradient with an extratropical richness peak in the northern temperate zone. Our phylogenomic approach resulted in a robust phylogeny revealing five major clades and several instances of non-monophyly among genera (Goniomma, Aphaenogaster). The tribe and most major lineages originated in the temperate zone and inhabited temperate niches. Crown Stenammini dates to 52 Ma (Eocene Climatic Optimum) and most major lineages appeared soon after during a period of global cooling. Despite its temperate origin, the group invaded the tropics at least six times, but failed to diversify greatly there. Across the tree diversification increased from 17.2-1.9 Ma following the Mid-Miocene Climatic Optimum, and among lineages there was a rate increase in Holarctic Aphaenogaster + Messor just prior to 17.2 Ma.\n\nMain Conclusions. Our results suggest that time, niche conservatism, and increased diversification have all contributed to the inverse latitudinal gradient in Stenammini. Among these processes, niche conservatism may be less important given that the tribe has dispersed to the tropics multiple times.", u'Autism (AUT), Schizophrenia (SCZ), and bipolar disorder (BPD) are three highly heritable neuropsychiatric conditions. Clinical similarities and genetic overlap between the three disorders have been reported; however, the causes and the downstream effects of this overlap remain elusive. By analyzing transcriptomic RNA-Sequencing data generated from post-mortem cortical brain tissues from AUT, SCZ, BPD and control subjects, we have begun to characterize the extent of gene expression overlap between these disorders. We report that the AUT and SCZ transcriptomes are significantly correlated (p<0.001), while the other two cross disorder comparisons (AUT-BPD, SCZ-BPD) are not. Among AUT and SCZ, we find that the genes differentially expressed across disorders are involved in neurotransmission and synapse regulation. Despite lack of global transcriptomic overlap across all three disorders, we highlight two genes, IQSEC3 and COPS7A, which are significantly down-regulated compared to controls across all three disorders, suggesting either shared etiology or compensatory changes across these neuropsychiatric conditions. Finally, we tested for enrichment of genes differentially expressed across disorders in genetic association signals in AUT, SCZ or BPD, reporting lack of signal in any of the previously published GWAS. Together, these studies highlight the importance of examining gene expression from the primary tissue involved in neuropsychiatric conditions, cortical brain. We identify a shared role for altered neurotransmission and synapse regulation in AUT and SCZ, in addition to two genes that may more generally contribute to neurodevelopmental and neuropsychiatric conditions.', u'Characterizing transcriptomes in both model and non-model organisms has resulted in a massive increase in our understanding of biological phenomena. This boon, largely made possible via high-throughput sequencing, means that studies of functional, evolutionary and population genomics are now being done by hundreds or even thousands of labs around the world. For many, these studies begin with a de novo transcriptome assembly, which is a technically complicated process involving several discrete steps. Each step may be accomplished in one of several different ways, using different software packages, each producing different results. This analytical complexity begs the question -- Which method(s) are optimal? Using reference and non-reference based evaluative methods, I propose a set of guidelines that aim to standardize and facilitate the process of transcriptome assembly. These recommendations include the generation of between 20 million and 40 million sequencing reads from single individual where possible, error correction of reads, gentle quality trimming, assembly filtering using Transrate and/or gene expression, annotation using dammit, and appropriate reporting. These recommendations have been extensively benchmarked and applied to publicly available transcriptomes, resulting in improvements in both content and contiguity. To facilitate the implementation of the proposed standardized methods, I have released a set of version controlled open-sourced code, The Oyster River Protocol for Transcriptome Assembly, available at http://oyster-river-protocol.rtfd.org/.', u'Since their endosymbiotic origin, mitochondria have lost most of their genes. Although many selective mechanisms underlying the evolution of mitochondrial genomes have been proposed, a data-driven exploration of these hypotheses is lacking, and a quantitatively supported consensus remains absent. We developed HyperTraPS, a methodology coupling stochastic modelling with Bayesian inference, to identify the ordering of evolutionary events and suggest their causes. Using 2015 complete mitochondrial genomes, we inferred evolutionary trajectories of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) gene loss across the eukaryotic tree of life. We find that proteins comprising the structural cores of the electron transport chain are preferentially encoded within mitochondrial genomes across eukaryotes. A combination of high GC content and high protein hydrophobicity is required to explain patterns of mtDNA gene retention; a model that accounts for these selective pressures can also predict the success of artificial gene transfer experiments in vivo. This work provides a general method for data-driven inference of the ordering of evolutionary and progressive events, here identifying the distinct features shaping mitochondrial genomes of present day species.', u'Current evolutionary biology models usually assume that a phenotype undergoes gradual change. This is in stark contrast to biological intuition which indicates that change can also be punctuated - the phenotype can jump.\nSuch a jump can especially occur at speciation, i.e. dramatic change occurs that drives the species apart. Here we derive a central limit theorem for punctuated equilibrium. We show that\nif adaptation is fast for weak convergence to hold dramatic change has to be a rare event.', u'Neuroticism is a risk factor for selected mental and physical illnesses and is inversely associated with intelligence. Intelligence appears to interact with neuroticism and mitigate its detrimental effects on physical health and mortality. However, the inter-ralationships of neuroticism and intelligence for major depressive disorder (MDD) and psychological distress has not been well examined. \n\nAssociations and interactions between neuroticism and general intelligence (g) on MDD and psychological distress were examined in two population-based cohorts: Generation Scotland: Scottish Family Health Study (GS:SFHS, N=19,200) and UK Biobank (N=90,529). The Eysenck Personality Scale Short Form-Revised measured neuroticism and g was extracted from multiple cognitive ability tests in each cohort. Family structure was adjusted for in GS:SFHS. \n\nNeuroticism was associated with MDD and psychological distress in both samples. A significant interaction between neuroticism and g in predicting MDD status was found in UK Biobank (OR = 0.96, p < .01), suggesting that higher g ameliorated the adverse effects of neuroticism on the likelihood of having MDD. This interaction was not found in GS:SFHS. In both samples, higher neuroticism and lower intelligence were associated with increased psychological distress. A significant interaction was also found in both cohorts (GS:SFHS: \u03b2 = -0.05, p < .01; UK Biobank: \u03b2 = -0.02, p < .01), such that intelligence protected against the deleterious effect of neuroticism on psychological distress.\n\nFrom two large cohort studies, our findings suggest intelligence acts a protective factor in mitigating the effects of neuroticism on risk for depressive illness and psychological distress.', u'Understanding the sources and sinks of methane (CH4) is critical for predicting and managing global biogeochemical cycles. Recent studies have reported that CH4 concentrations in cave ecosystems are depleted and that these subterranean environments may act as a daily sinks for atmospheric CH4. It has been hypothesized that this CH4 depletion may be caused by radiolysis, an abiotic process whereby CH4 is oxidized via interactions with ionizing radiation derived from radon decay. Alternatively, the depletion of CH4 concentrations could be due to biological processes, specifically oxidation by methanotrophic bacteria. We theoretically explored the radiolysis hypothesis and conclude that it is a kinetically constrained process that is unlikely to lead to the rapid loss of CH4 in subterranean environments. We present experimental results to support this claim. We tested the microbial oxidation hypothesis in a set of mesocosm experiments that were conducted in Vietnamese caves. Our results reveal that methanotrophic bacteria associated with cave rocks consume CH4 at a rate of 1.33 - 2.70 mg CH4 m-2 d-1. These CH4 oxidation rates equal or exceed what has been reported in other habitats, including agricultural systems, grasslands, deciduous forests, and Arctic tundra. As such, microbial methanotrophy has the potential to significantly oxidize CH4 in caves, but also smaller-size open subterranean spaces, such as cracks, fissures, and other pores that are connected to and rapidly exchange with the atmosphere. Future studies are needed to understand how subterranean CH4 oxidation scales up to affect regional and global CH4 cycling.', u'In a recent manuscript, Yang and colleagues criticized our paper, "Limitations of GCTA as a solution to the missing heritability problem".  Here we show that their main claims are statistically invalid, and our results hold as stated.', u'How does cortical state affect neural responses to naturalistic stimuli, and is it analogous between anesthetized and awake animals? We recorded spikes and local field potential (LFP) in isoflurane-anesthetized cat V1 while repeatedly presenting wide-field natural scene movie clips. Spiking responses were remarkably precise, reliable and sparse. Many units had distinct barcode-like firing patterns, with features as little as 10 ms wide. LFP-derived cortical state switched spontaneously between synchronized (1/f) and desynchronized (broadband). Surprisingly, responses were more precise, reliable and sparse during the synchronized than desynchronized state. However, the desynchronized state under anesthesia is thought to correspond to attending periods in awake animals, during which responses are enhanced. Our results therefore complicate the analogy between cortical states in anesthetized and awake animals. The presence of orientation maps in cat V1 may explain contrary reports in anesthetized rodents, and predicts a similar result in anesthetized ferret and primate V1.', u'The morphology and function of organs depend on coordinated changes in gene expression during development. These changes are controlled by transcription factors, signaling pathways and their regulatory interactions, which are represented by gene regulatory networks (GRNs). Therefore, the structure of an organ GRN restricts the morphological and functional variations that the organ can experience -its potential morphospace. Therefore, two important questions arise when studying any GRN: what is the predicted available morphospace and what are the regulatory linkages that contribute the most to control morphological variation within this space. Here, we explore these questions by analyzing a small "3-node" GRN model that captures the Hh-driven regulatory interactions controlling a simple visual structure: the ocellar region of Drosophila. Analysis of the model predicts that random variation of model parameters results in a specific non-random distribution of morphological variants. Study of a limited sample of Drosophilids and other dipterans finds a correspondence between the predicted phenotypic range and that found in nature. As an alternative to simulations, we apply Bayesian Networks methods in order to identify the set of parameters with the largest contribution to morphological variation. Our results predict the potential morphological space of the ocellar complex, and identify likely candidate processes to be responsible for ocellar morphological evolution using Bayesian networks. We further discuss the assumptions that the approach we have taken entails and their validity.', u'We recently described rapid quantitative pharmacodynamic imaging, a novel method for estimating sensitivity of a biological system to a drug. We tested its accuracy in simulated biological signals with varying receptor sensitivity and varying levels of random noise, and presented initial proof-of-concept data from functional MRI (fMRI) studies in primate brain. However, the initial simulation testing used a simple iterative approach to estimate pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic (PKPD) parameters, an approach that was computationally efficient but returned parameters only from a small, discrete set of values chosen a priori.\n\nHere we revisit the simulation testing using a Bayesian method to estimate the PKPD parameters. This improved accuracy compared to our previous method, and noise without intentional signal was never interpreted as signal. We also reanalyze the fMRI proof-of-concept data. The success with the simulated data, and with the limited fMRI data, is a necessary first step toward further testing of rapid quantitative pharmacodynamic imaging.', u'Large-scale neuronal circuit mapping using electron microscopy demands laborious proofreading by humans who resolve local ambiguities with larger contextual cues or by reconciling multiple indepen- dent reconstructions. We developed a new method that empowers expert neuroanatomists to apply quantitative arbor and network context to proofread and reconstruct neurons and circuits. We implemented our method in the web application CATMAID, supporting a group of collaborators to concurrently reconstruct neurons in the same circuit. We measured the neuroanatomical underpinnings of circuit connectivity in Drosophila neurons. We found that across life stages and cell types, synaptic inputs were preferentially located on spine-like microtubule-free branches, "twigs", while synaptic outputs were typically on microtubule-containing "backbone". The differential size and tortuosity of small twigs and rigid backbones was reflected in reconstruction errors, with nearly all errors being omission or truncation of twigs. The combination of redundant twig connectivity and low backbone error rates al- lows robust mapping of Drosophila circuits without time-consuming independent reconstructions. As a demonstration, we mapped a large sensorimotor circuit in the larva. We found anatomical pathways for proprioceptive feedback into motor circuits and applied novel methods of representing neuroanatomical compartments to describe their detailed structure. Our work suggests avenues for incorporating neuroanatomy into machine-learning approaches to connectomics and reveals the largely unknown circuitry of larval locomotion.', u"Increased dispersal propensity often evolves on expanding range edges due to the Olympic Village effect, which involves the fastest and fittest finding themselves together in the same place at the same time, mating, and giving rise to like individuals. But what happens after the range's leading edge has passed and the games are over? Although empirical studies indicate that dispersal propensity attenuates following range expansion, hypotheses about the mechanisms driving this attenuation have not been clearly articulated or tested. Here we use a simple model of the spatiotemporal dynamics of two phenotypes, one fast and the other slow, to propose that dispersal attenuation beyond pre-expansion levels is only possible in the presence of trade-offs between dispersal and life-history traits. The Olympic Village effect ensures that fast dispersers pre-empt locations far from the range's previous limits. When trade-offs are absent, this pre-emptive spatial advantage has a lasting impact, with highly dispersive individuals attaining equilibrium frequencies that are strictly higher than their introduction frequencies. When trade-offs are present, dispersal propensity decays rapidly at all locations. Our model's results about the post-colonization trajectory of dispersal evolution are clear and, in principle, should be observable in field studies. We conclude that empirical observations of post-colonization dispersal attenuation offer a novel way to detect the existence of otherwise elusive trade-offs between dispersal and life-history traits.", u'The progress in imaging techniques have allowed the study of\nvarious aspect of cellular mechanisms. To isolate individual\ncells in live imaging data, we introduce an elegant image segmentation\nframework that effectively extracts cell boundaries,\neven in the presence of poor edge details. Our approach works\nin two stages. First, we estimate pixel interior/border/exterior\nclass probabilities using random ferns. Then, we use an energy\nminimization framework to compute boundaries whose\nlocalization is compliant with the pixel class probabilities. We\nvalidate our approach on a manually annotated dataset.', u'Metagenomic profiling is challenging in part because of the highly uneven sampling of the tree of life by genome sequencing projects and the limitations imposed by performing phylogenetic inference at fixed taxonomic ranks. We present the algorithm MetaPalette which uses long k-mer sizes (k=30, 50) to fit a k-mer "palette" of a given sample to the k-mer palette of reference organisms. By modeling the k-mer palettes of unknown organisms, the method also gives an indication of the presence, abundance, and evolutionary relatedness of novel organisms present in the sample. The method returns a traditional, fixed-rank taxonomic profile which is shown on independently simulated data to be one of the most accurate to date. Tree figures are also returned that quantify the relatedness of novel organisms to reference sequences and the accuracy of such figures is demonstrated on simulated spike-ins and a metagenomic soil sample.\n\nThe software implementing MetaPalette is available at:\nhttps://github.com/dkoslicki/MetaPalette\nPre-trained databases are included for Archaea, Bacteria, Eukaryota, and viruses.', u'Microbial fatty acids preserve metabolic and environmental information in their ratios of deuterium (D) to hydrogen (H). This ratio is influenced by parameters that include the D/H of water in the microbial growth environment, and biosynthetic fractionations between water and lipid. In some microbes, this biosynthetic fractionation has been shown to vary systematically with central energy metabolism, and controls on fatty acid D/H may be linked to the intracellular production of NADPH. We examined the apparent fractionation between media water and the fatty acids produced by Desulfovibrio alaskensis G20. Growth was in batch culture with malate as an electron donor for sulfate respiration, and with pyruvate and fumarate as substrates for fermentation or sulfate respiration. A larger fractionation was observed as a consequence of respiratory or fermentative growth on pyruvate than growth on fumarate or malate. This difference correlates with opposite flows of electrons through the electron bifurcating/confurcating transhydrogenase NfnAB. When grown on malate or fumarate, mutant strains of D. alaskensis G20 containing transposon disruptions in a nfnAB paralog show different fractionations than the wild type strain. This isotopic phenotype is muted during fermentative growth on pyruvate, and it is absent when pyruvate is a substrate for sulfate reduction. All strains and conditions produced similar fatty acid profiles, and the D/H of individual lipids changed in concert with the mass-weighted average. We found that fractionation correlated strongly with growth rate, a pattern that has also been observed in the fractionation of sulfur isotopes during dissimilatory sulfate reduction by sulfate reducing bacteria.', u"Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) is a conifer tree native to western North America. In central Europe, it shows superior growth performance and is considered a suitable substitute for tree species impaired in vitality due to climate change. Maintenance and improvement of growth performance in a changing environment is a main challenge for forest tree breeders. In this context, genetic variation as a factor underlying phenotypic variation, but also as the basis for future adaptation, is of particular interest. The aims of this study were to analyse (i) genetic diversity of selected Douglas-fir provenances, (ii) variation in height growth among provenances, and (iii) to assess the link between genetic and phenotypic variation height growth. Genotyping was done on microsatellite loci. Effects of provenance, genotype, and site on height growth were assessed by fitting mixed linear models. The most significant genetic differentiation was observed between provenances of the coastal variety, versus a provenance of the interior variety originating from British Columbia. Although genetic differentiation among provenances of the coastal variety was lower, genetic structures within this variety were identified. Moreover, genetic diversity showed a latitudinal gradient with the southernmost provenances being more diverse, probably reflecting the species' evolutionary history. The modelling approach revealed that height growth differed significantly by provenance, site, and the interaction between site and provenance, demonstrating that height growth is under strong genetic control. Additionally, this analysis showed that genetic variation captured by the genotyped microsatellite loci was significantly related to variation in height growth, providing statistical evidence for a genetic component in the observed phenotypic variation.", u'Habitat suitability index (HSI) models provide spatially explicit information on the capacity of a given habitat to support a species of interest, and their prevalence has increased dramatically in recent years. Despite caution that the reliability of HSIs must be validated using independent, quantitative data, most HSIs intended to inform terrestrial and marine species management remain unvalidated. Furthermore, of the eight HSI models developed for eastern oyster (Crassostrea virginica) restoration and fishery production, none has been validated. Consequently, we developed, calibrated, and validated an HSI for the eastern oyster to identify optimal habitat for restoration in a tributary of Chesapeake Bay, the Great Wicomico River (GWR). The GWR harbors an unparalleled, restored oyster population, and therefore serves as an excellent model system for assessing the validity of the HSI. The HSI was derived from GIS layers of bottom type, salinity, and water depth (surrogate for dissolved oxygen), and was tested using live adult oyster density data from a survey of high vertical relief reefs (HRR) and low vertical relief reefs (LRR) in the sanctuary network. Live adult oyster density was a statistically significant sigmoid function of the HSI, which validates the HSI as a robust predictor of suitable oyster reef habitat for rehabilitation or restoration. In addition, HRR had on average 103-116 more adults m-2 than LRR at a given level of the HSI. For HRR, HSI values \u22650.3 exceeded the accepted restoration target of 50 live adult oysters m-2. For LRR, the HSI was generally able to predict live adult oyster densities that meet or exceed the target at HSI values \u22650.3. The HSI indicated that there remain large areas of suitable habitat for restoration in the GWR. This study provides a robust framework for HSI model development and validation, which can be refined and applied to other systems and previously developed HSIs to improve the efficacy of native oyster restoration.', u'DNA methylation, a common modification of genomic DNA, is known to influence the expression of transposable elements as well as some genes. Although commonly viewed as an epigenetic mark, evidence has shown that underlying genetic variation, such as transposable element polymorphisms, often associate with differential DNA methylation states. To investigate the role of DNA methylation variation, transposable element polymorphism, and genomic diversity, whole genome bisulfite sequencing was performed on genetically diverse lines of the model cereal Brachypodium distachyon. Although DNA methylation profiles are broadly similar, thousands of differentially methylated regions are observed between lines. An analysis of novel transposable element indel variation highlighted hundreds of new polymorphisms not seen in the reference sequence. DNA methylation and transposable element variation is correlated with the genome-wide amount of genetic variation present between samples. However, there was minimal evidence that novel transposon insertion or deletions are associated with nearby differential methylation. This study highlights the importance of genetic variation when assessing DNA methylation variation between samples and provides a valuable map of DNA methylation across diverse re-sequenced accessions of this model cereal species.', u'Microbial populations often rely on the cooperative production of extracellular public goods molecules. The cooperative nature of public good production may lead to minimum viable population sizes, below which populations collapse.  In addition, cooperator public goods producing cells face evolutionary competition from non-producing mutants, or freeloaders. Thus, public goods cooperators have to be stable not only to the invasion of freeloaders, but also to ecological perturbations that may push their numbers too small to be sustainable. Through a combination of experiments with microbial populations and mathematical analysis of the Ecological Public Goods Game, we show that game parameters and experimental conditions that improve the evolutionary stability of cooperators also lead to a low ecological stability of the cooperator population. Complex regulatory strategies mimicking those used by microbes in nature may allow cooperators to beat this eco-evolutionary stability tradeoff and become resistant to freeloaders while at the same time maximizing their ecological stability. Our results thus identify the coupled eco-evolutionary stability as being key for the long-term viability of microbial public goods cooperators.', u'Integrated information theory postulates that the particular way stimuli appear when we consciously experience them arises from integrated information relationships across neural populations. We investigated if such equivalence holds by testing if similar/different percepts map onto similar/different information structures. We computed integrated information structure from intracranial EEGs recorded in 6 neurosurgical patients who had electrodes implanted over posterior cortices. During recordings, we dissociated their subjective percepts from physical inputs in three distinct paradigms (passive viewing, continuous flash suppression and backward masking). Unsupervised classification showed that integrated information within stimulus-selective cortical regions classified visual experiences with significant accuracy (peaking on average around 64% classification accuracy). Classification by other relevant information theoretic measures such as mutual information and entropy was consistently poorer (56% and 54% accuracy). The findings argue that concepts from integrated information theory are empirically testable, promising a potential link between conscious experience and informational structures.', u'The packaging of eukaryotic genomes into nucleosomes plays critical roles in all DNA-templated processes, and chromatin structure has been implicated as a key factor in the evolution of gene regulatory programs. While the functions of many histone modifications appear to be highly conserved throughout evolution, some well-studied modifications such as H3K9 and H3K27 methylation are not found in major model organisms such as Saccharomyces cerevisiae, while other modifications gain/lose regulatory functions during evolution. To study such a transition we focused on H3K9 methylation, a heterochromatin mark found in metazoans and in the fission yeast S. pombe, but which has been lost in the lineage leading to the model budding yeast S. cerevisiae. We show that this mark is present in the relatively understudied yeast Kluyveromyces lactis, a Hemiascomycete that diverged from S. cerevisiae prior to the whole-genome duplication event that played a key role in the evolution of a primarily fermentative lifestyle. We mapped genome-wide patterns of H3K9 methylation as well as several conserved modifications. We find that well-studied modifications such as H3K4me3, H3K36me3, and H3S10ph exhibit generally conserved localization patterns. Interestingly, we show H3K9 methylation in K. lactis primarily occurs over highly-transcribed regions, including both Pol2 and Pol3 transcription units. We identified the H3K9 methylase as the ortholog of Set6, whose function in S. cerevisiae is obscure. Functionally, we show that deletion of KlSet6 does not affect highly H3K9me3-marked genes, providing another example of a major disconnect between histone mark localization and function. Together, these results shed light on surprising plasticity in the function of a widespread chromatin mark.', u'NMR titration experiments are a rich source of structural, mechanistic, thermodynamic and kinetic information on biomolecular interactions, which can be extracted through the quantitative analysis of resonance lineshapes. However, applications of such analyses are frequently limited by peak overlap inherent to complex biomolecular systems. Moreover, systematic errors may arise due to the analysis of two-dimensional data using theoretical frameworks developed for one-dimensional experiments. Here we introduce a more accurate and convenient method for the analysis of such data, based on the direct quantum mechanical simulation and fitting of entire two-dimensional experiments, which we implement in a new software tool, TITAN (TITration ANalysis). We expect the approach, which we demonstrate for a variety of protein-protein and protein-ligand interactions, to be particularly useful in providing information on multi-step or multi-component interactions.', u'Our focus here is on the infinitesimal model. In this model, one or several quantitative traits are described as the sum of a genetic and a non-genetic component, the first being distributed as a normal random variable centred at the average of the parental genetic\ncomponents, and with a variance independent of the parental traits. We first review the long history of the infinitesimal model in quantitative genetics. Then we provide a definition of the model at the phenotypic\nlevel in terms of individual trait values and relationships between individuals, but including different evolutionary processes: genetic drift, recombination, selection, mutation, population structure, ... We give a range of examples of its application to evolutionary questions related to stabilising selection, assortative mating, effective\npopulation size and response to selection, habitat preference and speciation. We provide a mathematical justification of the model as the limit as the number M of underlying loci tends to infinity of a model with Mendelian\ninheritance, mutation and environmental noise, when the genetic component of the trait is purely additive. We also show how the model generalises to include epistatic effects.\nIn each case, by conditioning on the pedigree\nrelating individuals in the population, we incorporate arbitrary selection and population structure. We suppose that we can observe the pedigree up to the present generation, together with all the ancestral traits, and we show, in particular, that the genetic components of the individual trait values in the current generation are indeed normally distributed with a variance independent of ancestral traits, up to an error of order M^{-1/2}. Simulations suggest that in particular cases the convergence may be as fast as 1/M.', u'Natural packed tissues are assembled as tessellations of polygonal cells that do not leave empty spaces between them. They include the epithelial sheets and the skeletal muscles. Epithelia are formed by equivalent cells that change shape and organization through development. The skeletal muscles appear as a mosaic composed by two different types of cells: the slow and fast fibres that are determined by the identities of the motor neurons that innervate them. Their relative distribution is important for the muscle function and can be altered in some neuromuscular diseases. Little is known about how the spatial organization of fast and slow fibres is established and maintained. In this work we use computerized image analysis and mathematical concepts to capture the organizational pattern in two different healthy muscles: biceps brachii and quadriceps. Here we show that each type of muscle portrays a characteristic topological pattern that allows distinguishing between them. The biceps brachii muscle presents a particular arrange based on the different size of slow and fast fibres, contrary to the quadriceps muscle where an unbiased distribution exists. Our results indicate that the relative size of each cellular type imposes an intrinsic organization into the tissue. These findings establish a new framework for the analysis of packed tissues where two or more cell types exist.', u'Craniofacial shape differences between taxa have often being linked to environmental adaptation, e.g. to new food sources, or have been studied in the context of domestication. Evidence for the genetic basis of such phenotypic differences to date suggests that within- as well as between-species variation has an oligogenic basis, i.e. few loci of large effect explain most of the variation. In mice, it has been shown that within-population craniofacial variation has a highly polygenic basis, but there are no data regarding the genetic basis of between-species differences. Here, we address this question using a phenotype-focused approach. Using 3D geometric morphometrics, we phenotyped a panel of mice derived from a natural hybrid zone between M. m. domesticus and M. m. musculus, and quantify the transition of craniofacial shape along the hybridization gradient. We find a continuous shape transition along the hybridization gradient, and unaltered developmental stability associated with hybridization. This suggests that the morphospace between the two subspecies is continuous despite reproductive isolation and strong barriers to gene flow. We show that quantitative changes in genome composition generate quantitative changes in craniofacial shape; this supports a highly polygenic basis for between-species craniofacial differences in the house mouse. We discuss our findings in the context of oligogenic versus polygenic models of the genetic architecture of morphological traits.', u'Motivation: Analysis of next-generation sequencing data often results in a list of genomic regions. These may include differentially methylated CpGs/regions, transcription factor binding sites, interacting chromatin regions, or GWAS-associated SNPs, among others. A common analysis step is to annotate such genomic regions to genomic annotations (promoters, exons, enhancers, etc.). Existing tools are limited by requiring an artificial one-to-one region-to-annotation mapping, by a lack of visualization options to clearly and easily summarize annotations, by the time it takes to annotate regions, or by some combination thereof.\nResults: We have developed the annotatr R package to easily and quickly summarize, and visualize the association of genomic regions with genomic annotations. The annotatr package reports all intersections of regions and annotations, giving a better understanding of the genomic context of the regions. A variety of visualization functions are implemented in annotatr to easily plot numerical or categorical data associated with the regions across the annotations, providing insight into how characteristics of the regions differ across the annotations. We also demonstrate that annotatr is up to 11x faster than the comparable R package, ChIPpeakAnno. Overall, annotatr facilitates easy and fast genomic annotation of genomic regions, enabling a richer biological interpretation of experiments.\nAvailability: http://www.github.com/rcavalcante/annotatr/', u"Mendelian traits are considered as the lower end of the complexity spectrum of heritable phenotypes. However, more than a century after the rediscovery of Mendel's law, the global landscape of monogenic variants as well as their effects and inheritance patterns within natural populations is still not well understood. Using the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, we performed a species-wide survey of Mendelian traits across a large population of isolates. We generated offspring from 41 unique parental pairs, and analyzed 1,105 cross/trait combinations. We found that 8.9% of the cases were Mendelian. Most were caused by common variants showing stable inheritances in a natural population. However, we also found that a rare monogenic variant related to drug resistance displayed a significant and variable expressivity across different genetic backgrounds, leading to modified inheritances ranging from intermediate to high complexities. Our results illustrate for the first time the continuum of the hidden complexity of a monogenic mutation, where genotype is hardly predictive of phenotype.", u'Signaling networks downstream of receptor tyrosine kinases are among the most extensively studied biological networks. However, it remains unclear whether signaling networks depend on biological context. Signaling networks encode causal influences - and not just correlations - between network components. Here, using a causal framework and systematic time-course assays of signaling proteins, we investigate the context-specificity of signaling networks in a cell line system. We focus on a well-defined set of signaling proteins profiled in four breast cancer cell lines under eight stimulus conditions and inhibition of specific kinases. The data, spanning multiple pathways and comprising approximately 70,000 phosphoprotein and 260,000 protein measurements, provide a wealth of testable, context-specific hypotheses, several of which we validate in independent experiments. Furthermore, the data provide a resource for computational methods development, permitting empirical assessment of causal network learning in a complex, mammalian setting.', u'Understanding patterns of genetic diversity is a crucial component of medical research in Africa. Here we use haplotype-based population genetics inference to describe gene-flow and admixture in a collection of 48 African groups with a focus on the major populations of the sub-Sahara. Our analysis presents a framework for interpreting haplotype diversity within and between population groups and provides a demographic foundation for genetic epidemiology in Africa. We show that coastal African populations have experienced an influx of Eurasian haplotypes as a series of admixture events over the last 7,000 years, and that Niger-Congo speaking groups from East and Southern Africa share ancestry with Central West Africans as a result of recent population expansions associated with the adoption of new agricultural technologies. We demonstrate that most sub-Saharan populations share ancestry with groups from outside of their current geographic region as a result of large-scale population movements over the last 4,000 years. Our in-depth analysis of admixture provides an insight into haplotype sharing across different geographic groups and the recent movement of alleles into new climatic and pathogenic environments, both of which will aid the interpretation of genetic studies of disease in sub-Saharan Africa.', u'Bacteriorhodopsin, a light activated protein that creates a proton gradient in halobacteria, has long served as a simple model of proton pumps. Within bacteriorhodopsin, several key sites undergo protonation changes during the photocycle, moving protons from the higher pH cytoplasm to the lower pH extracellular side. The mechanism underlying the long-range proton translocation between the central (the retinal Schiff base SB216, D85 and D212) and exit clusters (E194 and E204) remains elusive. To obtain a dynamic view of the key factors controlling proton translocation, a systematic study using molecular dynamics simulation was performed for eight bacteriorhodopsin models varying in retinal isomer and protonation of the SB216, D85, D212 and E204. The side-chain orientation of R82 is determined primarily by the protonation states of the residues in the EC. The side-chain reorientation of R82 modulates the hydrogen-bond network and consequently possible pathways of proton transfer. Quantum mechanical intrinsic reaction coordinate calculations of proton-transfer in the methyl guanidinium-hydronium-hydroxide model system show that proton transfer via a guanidinium group requires an initial geometry permitting proton donation and acceptance by the same amine. In all the models, R82 can form proton wires with both the CC and the EC connected by the same amine. Alternatively, rare proton wires for proton transfer from the CC to the EC without involving R82 were found in an O\u2033 state where the proton on D85 is transferred to D212.', u"Growing evidence indicates that disrupting the microbial community that comprises the intestinal tract, known as the gut microbiome, can contribute to the development or severity of disease. As a result, it is important to discern the agents responsible for microbiome disruption. While animals are frequently exposed to a diverse array of environmental chemicals, little is known about their effects on gut microbiome stability and structure. Here, we demonstrate how zebrafish can be used to glean insight into the effects of environmental chemical exposure on the structure and ecological dynamics of the gut microbiome. Specifically, we exposed forty-five adult zebrafish to triclosan-laden food for four or seven days or a control diet, and analyzed their microbial communities using 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing. Triclosan exposure was associated with rapid shifts in microbiome structure and diversity. We find evidence that several operational taxonomic units (OTUs) associated with the family Enterobacteriaceae appear to be susceptible to triclosan exposure, while OTUs associated with the genus Pseudomonas appeared to be more resilient and resistant to exposure. We also found that triclosan exposure is associated with topological alterations to microbial interaction networks and results in an overall increase in the number of negative interactions per microbe in these networks. Together these data indicate that triclosan exposure results in altered composition and ecological dynamics of microbial communities in the gut. Our work demonstrates that because zebrafish afford rapid and inexpensive interrogation of a large number of individuals, it is a useful experimental system for the discovery of the gut microbiome's interaction with environmental chemicals.", u'Premise of the study: Hybridization between diploids and tetraploids can lead to new allopolyploid species, often via a triploid intermediate. Viable triploids are often produced asymmetrically, with greater success observed for maternal-excess crosses where the mother has a higher ploidy than the father. Here we investigate the evolutionary origins of Mimulus peregrinus, an allopolyploid recently derived from the triploid M. x robertsii, to determine whether reproductive asymmetry has shaped the formation of this new species.\nMethods: We used reciprocal crosses between the diploid (M. guttatus) and tetraploid (M. luteus) progenitors to determine the viability of triploid hybrids resulting from paternal- versus maternal-excess crosses. To investigate whether experimental results predict patterns seen in the field, we performed parentage analyses comparing natural populations of M. peregrinus to its diploid, tetraploid, and triploid progenitors. Organellar sequences obtained from pre-existing genomic data, supplemented with additional genotyping was used to establish the maternal ancestry of multiple M. peregrinus and M. x robertsii populations.\nKey results: We find strong evidence for asymmetric origins of M. peregrinus, but opposite to the common pattern, with paternal-excess crosses significantly more successful than maternal-excess crosses. These results successfully predicted hybrid formation in nature: 111 of 114 M. x robertsii individuals, and 27 of 27 M. peregrinus, had an M. guttatus maternal haplotype.\nConclusion: This study, which includes assembly of the first Mimulus chloroplast genome, demonstrates the utility of parentage analysis through genome skimming. We highlight the benefits of complementing genomic analyses with experimental approaches to understand asymmetry in allopolyploid speciation.', u'There is intense interest in developing novel biomaterials which support the invasion and proliferation of living cells for potential applications in tissue engineering and regenerative medicine. Decellularization of existing tissues have formed the basis of one major approach to producing 3D scaffolds for such purposes. In this study, we utilize the native hypanthium tissue of apples and a simple preparation methodology to create implantable cellulose scaffolds. To examine biocompatibility, scaffolds were subcutaneously implanted in wild-type, immunocompetent mice (males and females; 6-9 weeks old). Following the implantation, the scaffolds were resected at 1, 4 and 8 weeks and processed for histological analysis (H&E, Masson\u2032s Trichrome, anti-CD31 and anti-CD45 antibodies). Histological analysis revealed a characteristic foreign body response to the scaffold 1 week post-implantation. However, the immune response was observed to gradually disappear by 8 weeks post-implantation. By 8 weeks, there was no immune response in the surrounding dermis tissue and active fibroblast migration within the cellulose scaffold was observed. This was concomitant with the deposition of a new collagen extracellular matrix. Furthermore, active blood vessel formation within the scaffold was observed throughout the period of study indicating the pro-angiogenic properties of the native scaffolds. Finally, while the scaffolds retain much of their original shape they do undergo a slow deformation over the 8-week length of the study. Taken together, our results demonstrate that native cellulose scaffolds are biocompatible and exhibit promising potential as a surgical biomaterial.', u'Zika virus is a mosquito-borne pathogen that is rapidly spreading across the Americas. Due to a probable association between Zika virus infection and a congenital neurological disorder called microcephaly, the epidemic trajectory of this viral infection poses a significant concern for the nearly 15 million children born in the Americas each year. The potential magnitude of the ongoing Zika epidemic is exceedingly difficult to gauge based on existing data, due to a number of uncertainties that cloud the relationship between observed cases and true infections. As an alternative to methods that depend on unreliable case data, we developed and applied a new method that leverages highly spatially resolved data about drivers of Zika transmission to project that 1.1 (1.0-1.9) million infections in childbearing women and 64.2 (53.6-108.1) million infections across all demographic strata could occur before the first wave of the epidemic concludes. Our projection is largely consistent with annual, region-wide estimates of 53.8 (40.0-71.8) million infections by dengue virus, which has many similarities to Zika. Our projection is also consistent with state-level data from Brazil on confirmed, Zika-associated microcephaly cases, and it suggests that the current epidemic has the potential to negatively impact tens of thousands of pregnancies. These projections constitute an important early contribution to efforts to understand the potential magnitude of the Zika epidemic, and our methods offer a new way to make rapid assessments of the threat posed by emerging infectious diseases.', u"Motivated by load balance issues in parallel calculations of the phylogenetic likelihood function, we recently introduced an approximation algorithm for efficiently distributing partitioned alignment data to a given number of CPUs. The goal is to balance the accumulated number of sites per CPU, and, at the same time, to minimize the maximum number of unique partitions per CPU. The approximation algorithm assumes that likelihood calculations on individual alignment sites have identical runtimes and that likelihood calculation times on distinct sites are entirely independent from each other. However, a recently introduced optimization of the phylogenetic likelihood function, the so-called site repeats technique, violates both aforementioned assumptions. To this end, we modify our data distribution algorithm and explore 72 distinct heuristic strategies that take into account the additional restrictions induced by site repeats, to yield a 'good' parallel load balance.\nOur best heuristic strategy yields a reduction in required arithmetic operations that ranges between 2% and 92% with an average of 62% for all test datasets using 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, and 64 CPUs compared to the original site-repeat-agnostic data distribution algorithm.", u"Marek's disease (MD) is a lymphoproliferative disease of chickens caused by airborne gallid herpesvirus type 2 (GaHV-2, aka MDV-1). Mature virions are formed in the feather follicle epithelium cells of infected chickens from which the virus is shed as fine particles of skin and feather debris, or poultry dust. Poultry dust is the major source of virus transmission between birds in agricultural settings. Despite both clinical and laboratory data that show increased virulence in field isolates of MDV-1 over the last 40 years, we do not yet understand the genetic basis of MDV-1 pathogenicity. Our present knowledge on genome-wide variation in the MDV-1 genome comes exclusively from laboratory-grown isolates. MDV-1 isolates tend to lose virulence with increasing passage number in vitro, raising concerns about their ability to accurately reflect virus in the field. The ability to rapidly and directly sequence field isolates of MDV-1 is critical to understanding the genetic basis of rising virulence in circulating wild strains. Here we present the first complete genomes of uncultured, field-isolated MDV-1. These five consensus genomes were derived directly from poultry dust or single chicken feather follicles without passage in cell culture. These sources represent the shed material that is transmitted to new hosts, vs. the virus produced by a point source in one animal. We developed a new procedure to extract and enrich viral DNA, while reducing host and environmental contamination. DNA was sequenced using Illumina MiSeq high-throughput approaches and processed through a recently described bioinformatics workflow for de novo assembly and curation of herpesvirus genomes. We comprehensively compared these genomes to one another and also to previously described MDV-1 genomes. The field-isolated genomes had remarkably high DNA identity when compared to one another, with few variant proteins between them. In an analysis of genetic distance, the five new field genomes grouped separately from all previously described genomes. Each consensus genome was also assessed to determine the level of polymorphisms within each sample, which revealed that MDV-1 exists in the wild as a polymorphic population. By tracking a new polymorphic locus in ICP4 over time, we found that MDV-1 genomes can evolve in short period of time. Together these approaches advance our ability to assess MDV-1 variation within and between hosts, over time, and during adaptation to changing conditions.", u'Haplotype phasing of genetic variants is important for clinical interpretation of the genome, population genetic analysis, and functional genomic analysis of allelic activity. Here we present phASER, a fast and accurate approach for phasing variants that are overlapped by sequencing reads, including those from RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq), which often span multiple exons due to splicing. This provides 1) dramatically more accurate phasing of rare and de novo variants compared to population-based phasing; 2) phasing of variants in the same gene up to hundreds of kilobases away which cannot be obtained from DNA-sequencing reads; 3) high confidence measures of haplotypic expression, greatly improving power for allelic expression studies.', u"During the last decade we witnessed how computational docking methods became a crucial tool in the search for new drug candidates. The 'central dogma' of small molecule docking is that compounds that dock correctly into the receptor are more likely to display biological activity than those that do not dock. This 'dogma', however, possesses multiple twists and turns that may not be obvious to novice dockers. The first premise is that the compounds must dock; this implies: (i) availability of data, (ii) realistic representation of the chemical entities in a form that can be understood by the computer and the software, and, (iii) exhaustive sampling of the protein-ligand conformational space. The second premise is that, after the sampling, all docking solutions must be ranked correctly with a score representing the physico-chemical foundations of binding. The third premise is that 'correctness' must be defined unambiguously, usually by comparison with 'static' experimental data (or lack thereof). Each of these premises involves some degree of simplification of reality, and overall loss in the accuracy of the docking predictions.\n\nIn this chapter we will revise our latest experiences in receptor-based docking when dealing with all three above-mentioned issues. First, we will explain the theoretical foundation of ICM docking, along with a brief explanation on how we measure performance. Second, we will contextualize ICM by showing its performance in single and multiple receptor conformation schemes with the Directory of Useful Decoys (DUD) and the Pocketome. Third, we will describe which strategies we are using to represent protein plasticity, like using multiple crystallographic structures or Monte Carlo (MC) and Normal Mode Analysis (NMA) sampling methods, emphasizing how to overcome the associated pitfalls (e.g., increased number of false positives). In the last section, we will describe ALiBERO, a new tool that is helping us to improve the discriminative power of X-ray structures and homology models in screening campaigns.", u'How honest signals evolve is a question that has been hotly debated by animal communication theoreticians and for which empirical evidence has been difficult to obtain. Theory predicts that, due to strong conflicts of interest, communication in aggressive contexts should be under strong selection for clear and reliable signaling. On the other hand, context-dependent signaling increases cheating opportunities, depending on how senders and receivers use, acquire and process signal information. Using animal signaling theory, theoretical visual models and behavioral experimentation, we characterize and determine proximate honesty mechanisms of the facial coloration in the Princess of Burundi cichlid, Neolamprologus brichardi, a species with complex social interactions. We show that this facial color pattern evolved stable chromatic conspicuousness for efficient transmission in the aquatic environment, while context-dependent plasticity in luminance of the horizontal black stripe element is used to signal switches in aggressive intent. Importantly, using experimental signal manipulation we demonstrate that social selection by receiver retaliation is the mechanism responsible for maintaining signal honesty. We suggest that by affecting the evolution of pigmentation patterns in sexually monochromatic cichlid species, social selection can have potential impacts on diversification dynamics.', u'Four insertional or quasiterminal translocations (T) were recently introgressed from Neurospora crassa into N. tetrasperma.   Crosses of two of the resulting TNt strains with N. tetrasperma N strains (N = normal sequence) produced more Dp than T and N homokaryotic progeny, although [T + N] and [Dp + Df] heterokaryotic progeny were made in roughly equal numbers. The T, N, and [T + N] progeny are derived from alternate segregation (ALT), whereas adjacent-1 segregation (ADJ) generates the Dp, Df, and [Dp + Df] types. Differential recovery of homokaryotic products from ALT and ADJ represents a novel and unprecedented type of meiotic drive.  This drive contributed to our inability to introgress a larger insertions translocation, T(VR>VIL)UK3-41,  into N. tetrasperma.  We suggest that one or more Bateson-Dobzhansky-Muller type incompatibility between N. crassa and N. tetrasperma genes in the TNt x N crosses might cause an insufficiency for a product required for ascospore maturation. Since the Df type is inviable, only four ascospores (Dp or [Dp + Df] types) share this limited resource in [Dp + Df] asci, whereas four to eight ascospores compete for it in [T + N] asci.  This increases the chance that in asci with >4 ascospores none properly matures, and results in Dp progeny out-numbering T and N types.', u'Greaver et al. (2014) presented evidence for density dependence in the Ithala population of black rhinoceros. Finding that they did not place their regression-based evidence in a modelling context, we recast their result as an example of the ramp model of density dependence that underlies black rhinoceros meta-population management. Greaver et al. concluded that the Ithala population did not reach carrying capacity, a conclusion we consider unwarranted since they did not conduct any analyses of trends in demographic parameters with population density. Our interpretation implies that the Ithala population did indeed reach carrying capacity. Where relevant, we compared their results for the Ithala population with those for another southern African black rhinoceros population in order to provide a broader basis for evaluating black rhinoceros demography. We detail inconsistent presentation of data in their paper that plagued our efforts to understand their results and also draw attention to possible errors in some analyses. In particular, we argue that the results on birth rates reported by Greaver et al. appear dubious. Greaver et al. have presented important evidence for density dependence in a population of black rhinoceros but we suggest they have underutilized their data in interpreting this density dependence while misanalysing birth data.', u'Horizontal gene transfer (HGT) is a fundamental mechanism that enables organisms such as bacteria to directly transfer genetic material between distant species. This way, bacteria can acquire new traits such as antibiotic resistance or pathogenic toxins. Current bioinformatics approaches focus on the detection of past HGT events by exploring phylogenetic trees or genome composition inconsistencies. However, this normally requires the availability of finished and fully annotated genomes and of sufficiently large deviations that allow detection. Thus, these techniques are not widely applicable. Especially in an outbreak scenario where new HGT mediated pathogens emerge, there is need for fast and precise HGT detection. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) technologies can facilitate swift analysis of unknown pathogens but, to the best of our knowledge, so far no approach uses NGS data directly to detect HGTs.\nWe present Daisy, a novel mapping-based tool for HGT detection directly from NGS data. Daisy determines HGT boundaries with split-read mapping and evaluates candidate regions relying on read pair and coverage information. Daisy can successfully detect HGT regions with base pair resolution in both simulated and real data, and outperforms alternative approaches using a genome assembly of the reads. We see our approach as a powerful complement for a  comprehensive analysis of HGT in the context of NGS data.\nDaisy is freely available from http://github.com/ktrappe/daisy.', u'Multiple methods have been introduced over the past 30 years to identify the genomic insertion sites of transposable elements and other DNA elements that integrate into genomes. However, each of these methods suffer from limitations that can frustrate attempts to map multiple insertions in a single genome and to map insertions in genomes of high complexity that contain extensive repetitive DNA. I introduce a new method for transposon mapping that is simple to perform, can accurately map multiple insertions per genome, and generates long sequence reads that facilitate mapping to complex genomes. The method, called TagMap, for Tagmentation-based Mapping, relies on a modified Tn5 tagmentation protocol with a single tagmentation adaptor followed by PCR using primers specific to the tranposable element and the adaptor sequence. Several minor modifications to normal tagmentation reagents and protocols allow easy and rapid preparation of TagMap libraries. Short read sequencing starting from the adaptor sequence generates oriented reads that flank and are oriented toward the transposable element insertion site. The convergent orientation of adjacent reads at the insertion site allows straightforward prediction of the precise insertion site(s). A Linux shell script is provided to identify insertion sites from fastq files.', u'In 2013, U.S. swine producers were confronted with the disruptive emergence of porcine epidemic diarrhoea (PED). Movement of animals among farms is hypothesised to have played a role in the spread of PED among farms. Via this or other mechanisms, the rate of spread may also depend on the geographic density of farms and climate. To evaluate such effects on a large scale, we analyse state-level counts of outbreaks with variables describing the distribution of farm sizes and types, aggregate flows of animals among farms, and an index of climate. Our first main finding is that it is possible for a correlation analysis to be sensitive to transmission model parameters. This finding is based on a global sensitivity analysis of correlations on simulated data that included a biased and noisy observation model based on the available PED data. Our second main finding is that flows are significantly associated with the reports of PED outbreaks. This finding is based on correlations of pairwise relationships and regression modeling of total and weekly outbreak counts. These findings illustrate how variation in population structure may be employed along with observational data to improve understanding of disease spread.', u'Large-scale biological networks map functional connections between most genes in the genome and can potentially uncover high level organizing principles governing cellular functions. These networks, however, are famously complex and often regarded as disordered masses of tangled interactions ("hairballs") that are nearly impenetrable to biologists. As a result, our current understanding of network functional organization is very limited. To address this problem, I developed a systematic quantitative approach for annotating biological networks and examining their functional structure. This method, named Spatial Analysis of Functional Enrichment (SAFE), detects network regions that are statistically overrepresented for a functional group or a quantitative phenotype of interest, and provides an intuitive visual representation of their relative positioning within the network. By successfully annotating the Saccharomyces cerevisiae genetic interaction network with Gene Ontology terms, SAFE proved to be sensitive to functional signals and robust to noise. In addition, SAFE annotated the network with chemical genomic data and uncovered a new potential mechanism of resistance to the anti-cancer drug bortezomib. Finally, SAFE showed that protein-protein interactions, despite their apparent complexity, also have a high level functional structure. These results demonstrate that SAFE is a powerful new tool for examining biological networks and advancing our understanding of the functional organization of the cell.', u'Alternative splicing is regulated by multiple RNA-binding proteins and influences the expression of most eukaryotic genes. However, the role of this process in human disease, and particularly in cancer, is only starting to be unveiled. We systematically analyzed mutation, copy number and gene expression patterns of 1348 RNA-binding protein (RBP) genes in 11 solid tumor types, together with alternative splicing changes in these tumors and the enrichment of binding motifs in the alternatively spliced sequences. Our comprehensive study reveals widespread alterations in the expression of RBP genes, as well as novel mutations and copy number variations in association with multiple alternative splicing changes in cancer drivers and oncogenic pathways. Remarkably, the altered splicing patterns in several tumor types recapitulate those of undifferentiated cells. These patterns are predicted to be mainly controlled by MBNL1 and involve multiple cancer drivers, including the mitotic gene NUMA1. We show that NUMA1 alternative splicing induces enhanced cell proliferation and centrosome amplification in non-tumorigenic mammary epithelial cells. Our study uncovers novel splicing networks that potentially contribute to cancer development and progression.', u"A model which treats the denatured and the native conformers as being confined to harmonic Gibbs energy wells has been used to rationalize the physical basis for the non-Arrhenius behaviour of spontaneously-folding fixed two-state systems. It is shown that at constant pressure and solvent conditions: (i) the rate constant for folding will be a maximum when the heat released upon formation of net molecular interactions is exactly compensated by the heat absorbed to desolvate net polar and non-polar solvent accessible surface area (SASA), as the denatured conformers driven by thermal noise bury their SASA and diffuse on the Gibbs energy surface to reach the activated state; (ii) the rate constant for unfolding will be a minimum when the heat absorbed by the native conformers to break various net backbone and sidechain interactions is exactly compensated by the heat of hydration released due to the net increase in SASA, as the native conformers unravel to reach the activated state; (iii) the activation entropy for folding will be zero, and the Gibbs barrier to folding will be a minimum, when the decrease in the backbone and the sidechain mobility is exactly compensated by the increase in entropy due to solvent-release, as the denatured conformers bury their SASA to reach the activated state; (iv) the activation entropy for unfolding will be zero, and the Gibbs barrier to unfolding will be a maximum when the increase in the backbone and sidechain mobility is exactly compensated by the negentropy of solvent-capture on the protein surface, as the native conformers unravel to reach the activated state; (v) while cold denaturation is driven by solvent effects, heat denaturation is primarily due to chain effects; (vi) the speed-limit for the folding is ultimately due to conformational searching; and(vii) Levinthal's paradox may have little basis if the entropy of solvent-release that accompanies protein folding is taken into consideration.", u'Fluid intelligence is a general cognitive ability associated with problem solving in the absence of task-specific knowledge. Neuroscientific studies of fluid intelligence have studied both fluid intelligence tasks of varying difficulty and individual differences in fluid intelligence ability, but have failed to appropriately distinguish the two dimensions. Here we use task-based fMRI (N=34) to show that within and between subject dimensions show both partial overlap and widespread differences. Individuals with higher ability showed widespread increased activity including bilateral frontoparietal systems, whereas more difficult items were associated with more focal activity increases in middle frontal gyri, frontal poles and superior frontal poles. Finally, we show that when difficulty is equated across individuals, those with higher ability tend to show more fronto-parietal activity, whereas low fluid intelligence individuals tend to show greater activity in higher visual areas. The fMRI and behavioural data for our paper are freely available in online repositories.', u'Adaptive radiation is thought to be responsible for the evolution of a great portion of the past and present diversity of life. Instances of adaptive radiation, characterized by the rapid emergence of an array of species as a consequence to their adaptation to distinct ecological niches, are important study systems in evolutionary biology. However, because of the rapid lineage formation in these groups, and the occurrence of hybridization between the participating species, it is often difficult to reconstruct the phylogenetic history of species that underwent an adaptive radiation. In this study, we present a novel approach for species-tree estimation in rapidly diversifying lineages, where introgression is known to occur, and apply it to a multimarker dataset containing up to 16 specimens per species for a set of 45 species of East African cichlid fishes (522 individuals in total), with a main focus on the cichlid species flock of Lake Tanganyika. We first identified, using age distributions of most recent common ancestors in individual gene trees, those lineages in our dataset that show strong signatures of past introgression. This led us to formulate three hypotheses of introgression between different lineages of Tanganyika cichlids: the ancestor of Boulengerochromini (or of Boulengerochromini and Bathybatini) received genomic material from the derived H-lineage; the common ancestor of Cyprichromini and Perissodini experienced, in turn, introgression from Boulengerochromini and/or Bathybatini; and the Lake Tanganyika Haplochromini and closely related riverine lineages received genetic material from Cyphotilapiini. We then applied the multispecies coalescent model to estimate the species tree of Lake Tanganyika cichlids, but excluded the lineages involved in these introgression events, as the multispecies coalescent model does not incorporate introgression. This resulted in a robust species tree, in which the Lamprologini were placed as sister lineage to the H-lineage (including the Eretmodini), and we identify a series of rapid splitting events at the base of the H-lineage. Divergence ages estimated with the multispecies coalescent model were substantially younger than age estimates based on concatenation, and agree with the geological history of the Great Lakes of East Africa. Finally, we formally tested the three hypotheses of introgression using a likelihood framework, and find strong support for introgression between some of the cichlid tribes of Lake Tanganyika.', u'Quantitative genetics predicts, that traits subjected to strong selection should show low heritability and may yield biased estimates of genetic correlations (rg). Similar pattern may also appear if genetic sources of variation are confounded with non-genetic sources. Thus, a positive relationship between genetic correlations and heritabilities (h2) of underlying traits might be observed. Here we test this prediction using a large dataset of published estimates of genetic correlations and employing a powerful meta-analytical approach. We considered both between-traits and cross-sex genetic correlations. We failed to find support for the prediction about a positive rg - h2 relationship: our analysis based on nearly 1000 published estimates of genetic parameters indicates that the predicted relationship is weak and statistically non-significant. Thus, low heritability does not preclude the possibility of detecting substantial genetic correlations. Our meta-analysis indicates that published estimates of genetic parameters coming from various experimental designs and obtained using different statistical techniques are not significantly biased in case of weakly-heritable traits.', u'Animals in groups often exchange calls, in patterns whose temporal structure may be influenced by contextual factors such as physical location and the social network structure of the group. We introduce a model-based analysis for temporal patterns of animal call timing, originally developed for networks of firing neurons. This has advantages over cross-correlation analysis in that it can correctly handle common-cause confounds and provides a generative model of call patterns with explicit parameters for the influences between individuals. It also has advantages over standard Markovian analysis in that it incorporates detailed temporal interactions which affect timing as well as sequencing of calls. Further, a fitted model can be used to generate novel synthetic call sequences. We apply the method to calls recorded from groups of domesticated zebra finch (Taenopyggia guttata) individuals. We find that the communication network in these groups has stable structure that persists from one day to the next, and that "kernels" reflecting the temporal range of influence have a characteristic structure for a calling individual\'s effect on itself, its partner, and on others in the group. We further find characteristic patterns of influences by call type as well as by individual.', u'The stability of the Calvin Bassham Benson (CBB) cycle remains an area of active computational research. Our understanding of biology and the prospect for bioengineered plants with higher productivity may both be impacted by a greater understanding of this area.  Here we use the ensemble modelling robustness analysis (EMRA) framework to show that the action of the phosphate/G3P antiporter is much more significant for maintenance of stability than a recently proposed G6P shunt.  Additionally, we interpret recent results suggesting that overexpression of RuBiSCO does not improve growth rate of plants but overexpression of SBPase does.  Our simulations reproduce this result, but only in models which do not include the G6P shunt.  Taken together, these results may suggest a situational role for the G6P shunt, possibly in dynamic situations under starvation or other stress conditions.', u'Background: A number of large genomic datasets are being generated for studies of human ancestry and diseases. The ADMIXTURE program is commonly used to infer individual ancestry from genomic data.\n\nResults: We describe two improvements to the ADMIXTURE software. The first enables ADMIXTURE to infer ancestry for a new set of individuals using cluster allele frequencies from a reference set of individuals. Using data from the 1000 Genomes Project, we show that this allows ADMIXTURE to infer ancestry for 10,920 individuals in a few hours (a 5x speedup). This mode also allows ADMIXTURE to correctly estimate individual ancestry and allele frequencies from a set of related individuals. The second modification allows ADMIXTURE to correctly handle X-chromosome (and other haploid) data from both males and females. We demonstrate increased power to detect sex-biased admixture in African-American individuals from the 1000 Genomes project using this extension.\n\nConclusions: These modifications make ADMIXTURE more efficient and versatile, allowing users to extract more information from large genomic datasets.', u'Combinatorial regulation of gene expression by multiple transcription factors (TFs) enables cells to carry out sophisticated computations that are key to cellular decision-making.  How is the information contained in multiple TF binding sites integrated to dictate the rate of transcription? The dominant model is that direct or indirect physical interactions between TFs enable them to combinatorially recruit each other and RNA polymerase to the promoter. Here we develop a quantitative framework to explore an alternative model, where combinatorial gene regulation can result from TFs working on different kinetic steps of the transcription cycle. Our results clarify the null hypotheses for independent action of TFs and show that combinatorial control of the transcription cycle can generate a wide range of analog and Boolean computations without requiring the input regulators to be simultaneously co-localized in the nucleus. This work emphasizes the importance of deciphering TF function beyond activation and repression, highlights the role of the basal promoter in processing regulatory information and suggests qualitative explanations for the flexibility of regulatory evolution.', u'Many approaches for inferring adaptive molecular evolution analyze the unfolded site frequency spectrum (SFS), a vector of counts of sites with different numbers of copies of derived alleles in a sample of alleles from a population. Accurate inference of the high copy number elements of the SFS is difficult, however, because of misassignment of alleles as derived versus ancestral. This is a known problem with parsimony using outgroup species. Here, we show that the problem is particularly serious if there is variation in the substitution rate among sites brought about by variation in selective constraint levels. We present a new method for inferring the SFS using one or two outgroups, which attempts to overcome the problem of misassignment. We show that two outgroups are required for accurate estimation of the SFS if there is substantial variation in selective constraints, which is expected to be the case for nonsynonymous sites of protein-coding genes. We apply the method to estimate unfolded SFSs for synonymous and nonsynonymous sites from Phase 2 of the Drosophila Population Genomics Project. We use the unfolded spectra to estimate the frequency and strength of advantageous and deleterious mutations, and estimate that ~50% of amino acid substitutions are positively selected, but that less than 0.5% of new amino acid mutations are beneficial, with a scaled selection strength of Nes \u2248 12.', u'We present IMP, an automated pipeline for reproducible integrated analyses of coupled metagenomic and metatranscriptomic data. IMP incorporates preprocessing, iterative co-assembly of metagenomic and metatranscriptomic data, analyses of microbial community structure and function as well as genomic signature-based visualizations. Complementary use of metagenomic and metatranscriptomic data improves assembly quality and enables the estimation of both population abundance and community activity while allowing the recovery and analysis of potentially important components, such as RNA viruses. IMP is containerized using Docker which ensures reproducibility. IMP is available at http://r3lab.uni.lu/web/imp/.', u'Motivation: We introduce TRONCO (TRanslational ONCOlogy), an open-source R package that implements the state-of-the-art algorithms for the inference of cancer progression models from (epi)genomic mutational profiles. TRONCO can be used to extract population-level models describing the trends of accumulation of alterations in a cohort of cross-sectional samples, e.g., retrieved from publicly available databases, and individual-level models that reveal the clonal evolutionary history in single cancer patients, when multiple samples, e.g., multiple biopsies or single-cell sequencing data, are available. The resulting models can provide key hints in uncovering the evolutionary trajectories of cancer, especially for precision medicine or personalized therapy. \n\nAvailability: TRONCO is released under the GPL license, it is hosted in the Software section at http://bimib.disco.unimib.it/ and archived also at bioconductor.org. \n\nContact: tronco@disco.unimib.it', u'We present, implement, and evaluate an approach to calculate the internode certainty and tree certainty on a given reference tree from a collection of partial gene trees. \nPreviously, the calculation of these values was only possible from a collection of gene trees with exactly the same taxon set as the reference tree.\nAn application to sets of partial gene trees requires mathematical corrections in the internode certainty and tree certainty calculations.\nWe implement our methods in RAxML and test them on empirical data sets. These tests imply that the inclusion of partial trees does matter. However, in order to provide meaningful measurements, any data set should also include trees containing the full species set.', u'In recent years, the assay for transposase-accessible chromatin using sequencing (ATAC-Seq) has become a fundamental tool of epigenomic research. However, it has proven difficult to perform this technique on frozen samples because freezing cells before extracting nuclei impairs nuclear integrity and alters chromatin structure. We describe a protocol for freezing cells that is compatible with ATAC-Seq, producing results that compare well with those generated from fresh cells. We found that while flash-frozen samples are not suitable for ATAC-Seq, the assay is successful with slow-cooled cryopreserved samples. Using this method, we were able to isolate high quality, intact nuclei, and we verified that epigenetic results from fresh and cryopreserved samples agree quantitatively. We developed our protocol on a disease-relevant cell type, namely motor neurons differentiated from induced pluripotent stem cells from a patient affected by spinal muscular atrophy.', u'The visual system separates the responses to dark and light stimuli into OFF and ON channels. Recordings in visual thalamus indicate that these channels exhibit marked asymmetries in linearity: OFF responses grow roughly linearly with intensity decrements, but ON responses can saturate with small intensity increments. Here I show that this asymmetry is likely to originate in photoreceptors, as it follows from the classical description of their light responses and of their properties of light adaptation. Under this interpretation, the surprising aspect of the recordings is that the visual system does so little to change this asymmetry in subsequent stages.', u'Myosin motors are the fundamental force-generating element of muscle contraction. Variation in the human \u03b2-cardiac myosin gene (MYH7) can lead to hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM), a heritable disease characterized by cardiac hypertrophy, heart failure, and sudden cardiac death. How specific myosin variants alter motor function or clinical expression of disease remains incompletely understood. Here, we combine structural models of myosin from multiple stages of its chemomechanical cycle, exome sequencing data from population cohorts of 60,706 and 42,930 individuals, and genetic and phenotypic data from 2,913 HCM patients to elucidate novel structure-function relationships within \u03b2-cardiac myosin. We first developed computational models of the human \u03b2-cardiac myosin protein before and after the myosin power stroke. Then, using a spatial scan statistic modified to analyze genetic variation in protein three-dimensional space, we found significant enrichment of disease-associated variants in the converter, a kinetic domain that transduces force from the catalytic domain to the lever arm to accomplish the power stroke. Focusing our analysis on surface-exposed residues, we identified another region enriched for disease-associated variants that contains both the converter domain and residues on a single flat surface on the myosin head described as a myosin mesa. This surface is prominent in the pre-stroke model, but substantially reduced in size following the power stroke. Notably, HCM patients with variants in the enriched regions have earlier presentation and worse outcome than those with variants in other regions. In summary, this study provides a model for the combination of protein structure, large-scale genetic sequencing and detailed phenotypic data to reveal insight into time-shifted protein structures and genetic disease.', u'The diversity of T-cell receptors recognizing foreign pathogens is generated through a highly stochastic recombination process, making the independent production of the same sequence rare. Yet unrelated individuals do share receptors, which together constitute a \u201cpublic\u201d repertoire of abundant clonotypes. The TCR repertoire is initially formed prenatally, when the enzyme inserting random nucleotides is downregulated, producing a limited diversity subset. By statistically analyzing deep sequencing T-cell repertoire data from twins, unrelated individuals of various ages, and cord blood, we show that T-cell clones generated before birth persist and maintain high abundances in adult organisms for decades, slowly decaying with age. Our results suggest that large, low-diversity public clones are created during pregnancy, and survive over long periods, providing the basis of the public repertoire.', u"Teleost fishes not only communicate with well-known visual cues, but also olfactory and acoustic signals. Communicating with sound has advantages, as signals propagate fast, omnidirectionally, around obstacles, and over long distances. Heterogeneous environments might favour multimodal communication, especially in socially complex species, as combination of modalities' strengths helps overcome their individual limitations. Cichlid fishes are known to be vocal, but a recent report suggests that this is not the case for the socially complex Princess cichlid Neolamprologus pulcher from Lake Tanganyika. Here we further investigated acoustic communication in this species. Wild and captive N. pulcher produced high frequency sounds (mean: 12 kHz), when stimulated by mirror images. In laboratory experiments, N. pulcher produced distinct two-pulsed calls mostly, but not exclusively, associated with agonistic displays. Our results suggest that male N. pulcher produce more sounds at greater durations than females. Thus, we confirm that the Princess cichlid does not produce low frequency sounds, but does produce high frequency sounds, both in combination with and independent from visual displays, suggesting that sounds are not a by-product of displays. Further studies on the hearing abilities of N. pulcher are needed to clarify if the high-frequency sounds are used in intra- or inter-specific communication.", u'Evolution and clinical manifestations of Ebola virus (EBOV) infection overlap with the pathologic processes that occur in sepsis1. Some viruses certainly compromise the immune system, leading to a breach in the integrity of the mucosal epithelial barrier, thus allowing bacterial translocation2, 3. Guided by these facts, we wondered if bacteria could be involved in the pathogenesis of some of the septic shock-like symptoms typical of EBOV infected patients, something that could have a dramatic impact on the design of new treatment approaches. We decided to search for bacteria in available EBOV patient sequence datasets. Given that EBOV is an RNA virus and that, hence, some NGS sequencing experiments carried out to sequence the EBOV genomes were RNA-Seq experiments, we thought that, if there were any bacteria in patient serum, at least some bacterial RNA might probably be detected in the sequenced material from Ebola patients. Thus, we searched for bacteria in a RNA-Seq public dataset from 99 Ebola samples from the last outbreak4, and surprisingly, in spite of the certainly suboptimal experimental conditions for bacterial RNA sequencing, we found bacteria in all of the 99 samples', u'Skeletal muscles arise from diverse embryonic origins, yet converge on common regulatory programs involving muscle regulatory factor (MRF)-family genes. Here, we compare the molecular basis of myogenesis in two separate muscle groups in the simple chordate Ciona: the atrial and oral siphon muscles.  Here, we describe the ontogeny of OSM progenitors and characterize the clonal origins of OSM founders to compare mechanisms of OSM specification to what has been established for ASM. We determined that, as is the case in the ASM, Ebf and Tbx1/10 are both expressed and function upstream of Mrf in the OSM founder cells.  However, regulatory relationships between Tbx1/10, Ebf and Mrf differ between the OSM and ASM lineages: while Tbx1/10, Ebf and Mrf form a linear cascade in the ASM, Ebf and Tbx1/10 are expressed in the inverse temporal order and are required together in order to activate Mrf in the OSM founder cells.', u'De novo assembly of short RNA-Seq reads into transcripts is challenging due to sequence similarities in transcriptomes arising from gene duplications and alternative splicing of transcripts. We present Shannon, an RNA-Seq assembler with an optimality guarantee derived from principles of information theory: Shannon reconstructs nearly all information-theoretically reconstructable transcripts. Shannon is based on a theory we develop for de novo RNA-Seq assembly that reveals differing abundances among transcripts to be the key, rather than the barrier, to effective assembly. The assembly problem is formulated as a sparsest-flow problem on a transcript graph, and the heart of Shannon is a novel iterative flow-decomposition algorithm. This algorithm provably solves the information-theoretically reconstructable instances in linear-time even though the general sparsest-flow problem is NP-hard. Shannon also incorporates several additional new algorithmic advances: a new error-correction algorithm based on successive cancelation, a multi-bridging algorithm that carefully utilizes read information in the k-mer de Bruijn graph, and an approximate graph partitioning algorithm to split the transcriptome de Bruijn graph into smaller components. In tests on large RNA-Seq datasets, Shannon obtains significant increases in sensitivity along with improvements in specificity in comparison to state-of-the-art assemblers.', u'Bovine Leukemia Virus (BLV) is a deltaretrovirus closely related to the Human T-cell leukemia virus-1 (HTLV-1). Cattle are the natural host of BLV where it integrates into B-cells and produces a lifelong infection. Most infected animals remain asymptomatic but following a protracted latency period about ~5% develop an aggressive leukemia/lymphoma, mirroring the disease trajectory of HTLV-1. The 5\u2032LTRs of both the BLV and HTLV-1 proviruses are transcriptionally silent in tumors, however they are not entirely quiescent, with the HLTV-1 antisense transcript HBZ and the BLV microRNAs constitutively expressed in tumors. Here, using RNA-seq, we demonstrate that in addition to microRNAs, the BLV provirus also constitutively expresses two antisense transcripts in all BLV infected samples examined. The first transcript (AS1) has alternate potential polyadenylation sites generating a short transcript of ~600bp (AS1-S) and a less abundant longer transcript of ~2200bp (AS1-L). Alternative splicing also creates a second transcript of ~400bp (AS2) utilizing the first exon of AS1. Production of AS transcripts from the 3\u2032LTR was supported by reporter assays demonstrating that the BLV LTR has substantial and Tax-independent antisense promoter activity. BLV AS transcripts predominantly localize in the nucleus. Examination of protein coding potential showed AS2 to be non-coding, while the AS1-S/L transcripts coding potential is ambiguous, with a small potential open reading frame (ORF) of 264bp present. The AS1-L transcript overlaps the BLV microRNAs transcribed in the sense direction. Using high throughput sequencing of RNA-ligase-mediated (RLM) 5\u2032RACE products, we show that the perfect complementary between the transcripts leads to RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC) mediated cleavage of AS1-L. Furthermore, experiments using BLV proviruses where the microRNAs were removed or inverted point to additional transcriptional interactions between the two viral RNA species. Knock down of AS1-S/L using locked nucleic acids (LNAs) showed no obvious effect on the cells phenotype. While a detailed elucidation of the BLV antisense transcripts function remains in the future, the constitutive expression in all samples examined, points to a vital role for the transcripts in the life cycle and oncogenic potential of BLV.', u"Accurate identification of copy number alterations is an essential step in understanding the events driving tumor progression. While a variety of algorithms have been developed to use high-throughput sequencing data to profile copy number changes, no tool is able to reliably characterize ploidy and genotype absolute copy number from tumors which contains less than 40% tumor DNA. To increase our power to resolve the copy number profile of these low cellularity tumor genomes, we developed a novel approach which pre-phases heterozygote germline SNPs in order to replace the commonly used 'B-allele frequency' with a more powerful 'parental-haplotype frequency'. We also describe a novel 'digital spectral karyotyping' approach for visualization of copy number alterations.\n\nWe apply our tool - sCNAphase - to characterize the copy number and loss-of-heterozygosity profiles of four publicly available breast cancer cell-lines. Comparisons to previous spectral karyotyping and microarray studies revealed that sCNAphase reliably identified overall ploidy and the individual copy number changes from each cell-line. Analysis of tumor-normal cell-line mixtures demonstrated the capacity of this method to determine the level of tumor purity as little as 5% tumor DNA and to consistently identify sCNAs and characterize ploidy in samples at 10% tumor purity. This novel methodology has the potential to bring sCNA profiling to low-cellularity tumors, a form of cancer unable to be profiled by current methods.", u'Gene essentiality - whether or not a gene is necessary for cell growth - is a fundamental component of gene function. It is not well established how quickly gene essentiality can change, as few studies have compared empirical measures of essentiality between closely related organisms. Here we present the results of a Tn-seq experiment designed to detect essential protein coding genes in the bacterial pathogen Shigella flexneri 2a 2457T on a genome-wide scale. Superficial analysis of this data suggested that 451 protein-coding genes in this Shigella strain are critical for robust cellular growth on rich media. Comparison of this set of genes with a gold-standard data set of essential genes in the closely related Escherichia coli K12 BW25113 suggested that an excessive number of genes appeared essential in Shigella but non-essential in E. coli. Importantly, and in converse to this comparison, we found no genes that were essential in E. coli and non-essential in Shigella, suggesting that many genes were artefactually inferred as essential in Shigella. Controlling for such artefacts resulted in a much smaller set of discrepant genes. Among these, we identified three sets of functionally related genes, two of which have previously been implicated as critical for Shigella growth, but which are dispensable for E. coli growth.  The data presented here highlight the small number of protein coding genes for which we have strong evidence that their essentiality status differs between the closely related bacterial taxa E. coli and Shigella. A set of genes involved in acetate utilization provides a canonical example. These results leave open the possibility of developing strain-specific antibiotic treatments targeting such differentially essential genes, but suggest that such opportunities may be rare in closely related bacteria.', u'Genome duplication can provide material for evolutionary innovation, and much remains unknown about its functional effects. Assembly of large, outbred eukaryotic genomes is difficult, but structural rearrangements within such taxa can be investigated using linkage maps. RAD sequencing provides unprecedented ability to generate high-density linkage maps for non-model species. However, these methods often result in a low number of homologous markers between species due to phylogenetic distance or technical differences in library preparation. Family Salmonidae is ideal for studying the effects of whole genome duplication. The ancestral salmonid underwent whole genome duplication around 65 million years ago and the tetraploid genome has undergone rediploidization during the salmonid diversification. In the salmonids, synteny occurs between orthologous chromosomes, but each species exhibits conserved and unique chromosome arm fusions and fissions. In this study, we identify orthologous chromosome arms within the salmonids using available RADseq salmonid linkage maps along with a new high-density linkage map (3826 markers) constructed for the Salvelinus genera (Brook Charr S. fontinalis). We developed MapComp, a program that identifies identical and proximal markers between linkage maps using a reference genome of a related species as an intermediate (e.g. Rainbow Trout Oncorhynchus mykiss). We greatly increased the number of comparable markers between linkage maps relative to that obtained using only identical markers. This enabled a characterization of the most likely history of retained chromosomal rearrangements post-whole genome duplication in five species of Oncorhynchus, and one species of each of Salvelinus, Salmo, and Coregonus, representing all of the main salmonid genera. Additionally, integration with the genetic map of the pre-duplicated sister species Northern Pike Esox lucius permitted the identification of homeologous chromosomes in all species. Putative conserved inversions within chromosome arms were also identified among species. Analyses of RADseq-based linkage maps from other taxa are likely to benefit from MapComp, available at: https://github.com/enormandeau/mapcomp/.', u'Background\nThe Mouse Genomes Project is an ongoing collaborative effort to sequence the genomes of the common laboratory mouse strains. In 2011, the initial analysis of sequence variation across 17 strains found 56.7M unique SNPs and 8.8M indels. We carried out deep sequencing of 13 additional inbred strains (BUB/BnJ, C57BL/10J, C57BR/cdJ, C58/J, DBA/1J, I/LnJ, KK/HiJ, MOLF/EiJ, NZB/B1NJ, NZW/LacJ, RF/J, SEA/GnJ and ST/bJ) cataloging molecular variation within and across the strains. These strains include important models for immune response, leukemia, age-related hearing loss and rheumatoid arthritis. We now have several examples of fully sequenced closely related strains that are divergent for several disease phenotypes.\n\nResults\nApproximately, 27.4M unique SNPs and 5M indels were identified across these strains compared to the C57BL/6J reference genome (GRCm38). The amount of variation found in the inbred laboratory mouse genome has increased to 71M SNPs and 12M indels. We investigate the genetic basis of highly penetrant cancer susceptibility in RF/J finding private novel missense mutations in DNA damage repair and highly cancer associated genes. We use two highly related strains (DBA/1J and DBA/2J) to investigate the genetic basis of collagen induced arthritis susceptibility.\n\nConclusion \nThis paper significantly expands the catalog of fully sequenced laboratory mouse strains and now contains several examples of highly genetically similar strains with divergent phenotypes. We show how studying private missense mutations can lead to insights into the genetic mechanism for a highly penetrant phenotype.', u'Many breeders use selection as a first step for improvement of complex traits.  The theory of selection is well studied in the genetics literature.  In this article, we propose a new approach to breeding which focuses on mating instead of selection, we refer it to as genomic mating. We believe breeding by genomic mating uses the genomic information better than a recently proposed method of breeding methodologies like genomic selection. We used concepts of risk and diversification from the economics for formulating the optimum mating theory. The results from our simulations point to the efficiency of our method to selection based breeding.', u'With the rapid production of high dimensional genetic data, one major challenge in genome-wide association studies is to develop effective and efficient statistical tools to resolve the low power problem of detecting causal SNPs with low to moderate susceptibility, whose effects are often obscured by substantial background noises. Here we present a novel method that serves as an optimal technique for reducing background noises and improving detection power in genome-wide association studies. The approach uses hidden Markov model and its derivate Markov hidden Markov model to estimate the posterior probabilities of a markers being in an associated state. We conducted extensive simulations based on the human whole genome genotype data from the GlaxoSmithKline-POPRES project to calibrate the sensitivity and specificity of our method and compared with many popular approaches for detecting positive signals including the \u03c7^2 test for association and the Cochran-Armitage trend test. Our simulation results suggested that at very low false positive rates (<10^-6), our method reaches the power of 0.9, and is more powerful than any other approaches, when the allelic effect of the causal variant is non-additive or unknown. Application of our method to the data set generated by Welcome Trust Case Control Consortium using 14,000 cases and 3,000 controls confirmed its powerfulness and efficiency under the context of the large-scale genome-wide association studies.', u'Objective: To determine the feasibility of next-generation sequencing (NGS) microbiome approaches in the diagnosis of infectious disorders in brain or spinal cord biopsies in patients with suspected central nervous system (CNS) infections.\nMethods: In a prospective-pilot study, we applied NGS in combination with a new computational analysis pipeline to detect the presence of pathogenic microbes in brain or spinal cord biopsies from ten patients with neurological problems indicating possible infection but for whom conventional clinical and microbiology studies yielded negative or inconclusive results.\nResults: Direct DNA and RNA sequencing of brain tissue biopsies generated 8.3 million to 29.1 million sequence reads per sample, which successfully identified with high confidence the infectious agent in three patients, identified possible pathogens in two more, and helped to understand neuropathological processes in three others, demonstrating the power of large-scale unbiased sequencing as a novel diagnostic tool. Validation techniques confirmed the pathogens identified by NGS in each of the three positive cases. Clinical outcomes were consistent with the findings yielded by NGS on the presence or absence of an infectious pathogenic process in eight of ten cases, and were non-contributory in the remaining two.\nConclusions:  NGS-guided metagenomic studies of brain, spinal cord or meningeal biopsies offer the possibility for dramatic improvements in our ability to detect (or rule out) a wide range of CNS pathogens, with potential benefits in speed, sensitivity, and cost. NGS-based microbiome approaches present a major new opportunity to investigate the potential role of infectious pathogens in the pathogenesis of neuroinflammatory disorders.', u'The balance between proliferation and differentiation in the plant shoot apical meristem is controlled by regulatory loops involving the phytohormone cytokinin and stem cell identity genes. Concurrently, cellular differentiation in the developing shoot is coordinated with the environmental and developmental status of plastids within those cells. Here we employ an Arabidopsis thaliana mutant exhibiting constitutive plastid osmotic stress to investigate the molecular and genetic pathways connecting plastid status with cell fate decisions at the shoot apex. msl2 msl3 mutants exhibit dramatically enlarged and deformed plastids in the shoot apical meristem, and develop a mass of callus tissue at the shoot apex. Callus production in this mutant is characterized by increased cytokinin levels, the down-regulation of cytokinin signaling inhibitors ARR7 and ARR15, and induction of the stem cell identity gene WUSCHEL and is reduced in the absence of the cytokinin receptor AHK2. Furthermore, plastid stress-induced apical callus requires elevated plastidic ROS, ABA biosynthesis, and retrograde signaling proteins GUN1 and ABI4. These results establish a functional link between the cytokinin/WUS pathway and retrograde signaling in controlling cell fate at the shoot apex.', u'Escherichia coli ST131 is the most frequently isolated fluoroquinolone resistant (FQR) E. coli clone worldwide and a major cause of urinary tract and bloodstream infections. Although originally identified through its association with the CTX-M-15 extended-spectrum \u03b2-lactamase resistance gene, global genomic epidemiology studies have failed to resolve the geographical and temporal origin of the ST131 ancestor. Here, we developed a framework for the reanalysis of publicly available genomes from different sources and used this dataset to reconstruct the evolutionary steps that led to the emergence of FQR ST131. Using Bayesian estimation, we show that point mutations in chromosomal genes that confer FQR coincide with the first clinical use of fluoroquinolone in 1986, and illustrate the impact of this pivotal event in the rapid population expansion of ST131 worldwide from an apparent origin in North America. Furthermore, we identify key virulence factor acquisition events that predate the development of FQR, suggesting that the gain of virulence-associated genes followed by the tandem development of antibiotic resistance primed the successful global dissemination of ST131.', u'Mitigation of climate change and adaptation to its effects relies\n  partly on how effectively land-atmosphere interactions can be\n  quantified. Quantifying composition of past forest ecosystems can\n  help understand processes governing forest dynamics in a changing\n  world. Fossil pollen data provide information about past forest\n  composition, but rigorous interpretation requires development of\n  pollen-vegetation models (PVMs) that account for interspecific\n  differences in pollen production and dispersal. Widespread and\n  intensified land-use over the 19th and 20th centuries may have\n  altered pollen-vegetation relationships. Here we use STEPPS, a\n  Bayesian hierarchical spatial PVM, to estimate key process\n  parameters and associated uncertainties in the pollen-vegetation\n  relationship.  We apply alternate dispersal kernels, and calibrate\n  STEPPS using a newly developed Euro-American settlement-era\n  calibration data set constructed from Public Land Survey data and\n  fossil pollen samples matched to the settlement-era using expert\n  elicitation. Models based on the inverse power-law dispersal kernel\n  outperformed those based on the Gaussian dispersal kernel,\n  indicating that pollen dispersal kernels are fat tailed.  Pine and\n  birch have the highest pollen productivities. Pollen productivity\n  and dispersal estimates are generally consistent with previous\n  understanding from modern data sets, although source area estimates\n  are larger. Tests of model predictions demonstrate the ability of\n  STEPPS to predict regional compositional patterns.', u'Machine learning approaches have been widely used for the identification of neuropathology from neuroimaging data. However, these approaches require large samples and suffer from the challenges associated with multi-site, multi-protocol data. We propose a novel approach to address these challenges, and demonstrate its usefulness with the Autism Brain Imaging Data Exchange (ABIDE) database.\nWe predict symptom severity based on cortical thickness measurements from 156 individuals with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) from four different sites. The proposed approach consists of two main stages: a domain adaptation stage using partial least squares regression to maximize the consistency of imaging data across sites; and a learning stage combining support vector regression for regional prediction of severity with elastic-net penalized linear regression for integrating regional predictions into a whole-brain severity prediction. The proposed method performed markedly better than simpler alternatives, better with multi-site than single-site data, and resulted in a considerably higher cross-validated correlation score than has previously been reported in the literature for multi-site data. This demonstration of the utility of the proposed approach for detecting structural brain abnormalities in ASD from the multi-site, multi-protocol ABIDE dataset indicates the potential of designing machine learning methods to meet the challenges of agglomerative data.', u'PURPOSE: CRISPR/Cas has recently been adapted to enable efficient editing of the mammalian genome, opening novel avenues for therapeutic intervention of inherited diseases. In seeking to disrupt Yellow Fluorescent Protein (YFP) in a Thy1-YFP transgenic mouse, we assessed the feasibility of utilising the adeno-associated virus 2 (AAV2) to deliver CRISPR/Cas for genome modification of retinal cells in vivo.\n \nMETHODS: sgRNA plasmids were designed to target YFP and after in vitro validation, selected guides were cloned into a dual AAV system. One AAV2 construct was used to deliver SpCas9 and the other delivered sgRNA against YFP or LacZ (control) in the presence of mCherry. Five weeks after intravitreal injection, retinal function was determined using electroretinography and CRISPR/Cas-mediated gene modifications were quantified in retinal flat mounts. \n\nRESULTS: AAV2-mediated in vivo delivery of SpCas9 with sgRNA targeting YFP, significantly reduced the number of YFP fluorescent cells of the inner retina of our transgenic mouse model. Overall, we found an 84.0% (95% CI: 81.8-86.9) reduction of YFP-positive cells in YFP-sgRNA infected retinal cells compared to eyes treated with LacZ-sgRNA. Electroretinography profiling found no significant alteration in retinal function following AAV2-mediated delivery of CRISPR/Cas components compared to contralateral untreated eyes.\n\nCONCLUSIONS: Thy1-YFP transgenic mice were used as a rapid quantifiable means to assess the efficacy of CRISPR/Cas-based retinal gene modification in vivo. We demonstrate that genomic modification of cells in the adult retina can be readily achieved by viral mediated delivery of CRISPR/Cas.', u'BRCA1 and BRCA2 testing for HBOC does not identify all pathogenic variants. Sequencing of 20 complete genes in HBOC patients with uninformative test results (N=287), including non-coding and flanking sequences of ATM, BARD1, BRCA1, BRCA2, CDH1, CHEK2, EPCAM, MLH1, MRE11A, MSH2, MSH6, MUTYH, NBN, PALB2, PMS2, PTEN, RAD51B, STK11, TP53, and XRCC2, identified 38,372 unique variants. We apply information theory (IT) to predict novel functions for and prioritize non-coding variants of uncertain significance (VUS) in  throughout regulatory, coding, and intronic regions based on changes in binding sites in these genesof these genes. Besides mRNA splicing, IT provides a common framework to evaluate potential affinity changes inin transcription factor (TFBSs), splicing regulatory (SRBSs), and RNA-binding protein (RBBSs) protein binding sites following mutationat mutated binding sites. We prioritized variants affecting the strengths of 10 variants affecting splice sites (4 natural, 6 cryptic), 148 SRBS, 36 TFBS, and 31 RBBS binding strength-affecting variantss. Three variants were also prioritized based on their predicted effects on mRNA secondary (2\xb0) structure, and 17 for pseudoexon activation. Additionally, 4 frameshift, 2 in-frame deletions, and 5 stop-gain mutations were identified. When combined with pedigree information, complete gene sequence analysis can focus attention on a limited set of variants in a wide spectrum of functional mutation types for downstream functional and co-segregation analysis.', u'Methods for inference and interpretation of evolutionary quantitative genetic parameters, and for prediction of the response to selection, are best developed for traits with normal distributions. Many traits of evolutionary interest, including many life\nhistory and behavioural traits, have inherently non-normal distributions. The generalised linear mixed model (GLMM) framework has become a widely used tool for estimating quantitative genetic parameters for non-normal traits. However, whereas GLMMs provide inference on a statistically-convenient latent scale, it will often be desirable to estimate quantitative genetic parameters on the scale upon which traits are expressed. The parameters of a fitted GLMM, despite being on a latent scale, fully determine all quantities of potential interest on the scale on which traits are expressed. We provide expressions for deriving each of such quantities, including population means, phenotypic (co)variances, variance components including additive genetic (co)variances, and parameters such as heritability. The expressions require integration of quantities determined by the link function, over distributions of latent values. In general cases, the required integrals must be solved numerically, but efficient methods are available and we provide an implementation in an R package, QGglmm. We show that known formulae for quantities such as heritability of traits with Binomial and Poisson distributions are special cases of our expressions. Additionally, we show how a fitted GLMM can be incorporated into existing methods for predicting evolutionary trajectories. We demonstrate the accuracy of the resulting\nmethod for evolutionary prediction by simulation, and apply our approach to data from a pedigreed vertebrate population.', u'Recent hypotheses suggest that learning to read influences the cognitive and cerebral organization of other perceptual skills, including face processing. Developmental prosopagnosia (DP) is a disorder of face recognition in the absence of acquired brain injury, and in the context of normal intelligence and general cognitive development. To shed light on the potential relationship between reading and face processing in this group (and in general), we investigated reading performance in 10 participants with DP and 20 matched controls. We find that the group of DPs perform strikingly similar to the control group on four sensitive reading tests measuring visual recognition and naming of single letters and words, word length effects, and text reading speed and comprehension. Thus, there is a clear dissociation between impaired face processing and preserved reading in this group, a finding that challenges the recently proposed hypothesis that reading acquisition and face processing abilities are intrinsically linked. Developmental prosopagnosics can learn to read as fluently as normal subjects, while they are seemingly unable to learn efficient strategies for recognizing faces.', u'Since the early 1990s, ash dieback due to the invasive ascomycete Hymenoscyphus fraxineus is threatening Fraxinus excelsior in most of\nits natural range. Previous studies reported significant levels of genetic variability for susceptibility in F. excelsior either in field\nor inoculation experiments. The present study was based on a field experiment planted in 1995, fifteen years before onset of the disease. Crown and collar status were monitored on 788 trees from 23 open-pollinated progenies originating from 3 French provenances. Susceptibility was modeled using a Bayesian approach where spatio-temporal effects were explicitly taken into account. Moderate narrow-sense heritability was found for Crown Dieback (CD, h2 = 0.42). This study is first to show that Collar Lesions are also heritable (h2 = 0.49 for prevalence and h2 = 0.42 for severity) and that there is significant genetic correlation (r=0.40) between the severities of both\nsymptoms. There was no evidence for differences between Provenances. Family effects were detected, but computing Individual Breeding Values (IBV) showed that most of the genetic variation lies within families. In\nagreement with previous reports, early flushing correlates with better crown status. Consequences of these results in terms of management and breeding are discussed.', u'Many of the characteristics associated with mammalian sleep are also observed in Drosophila, making the fruit-fly a powerful model organism for studying the genetics of this important process. Among these similarities is the presence of sexual dimorphic sleep patterns, which in flies, is manifested as increased mid-day sleep (siesta) in males, compared to females.  Here, we have used targeted miss-expression of the gene transformer (tra)  and tra2 to either feminise or masculinise specific  neural and non-neural tissues in the fly. Feminization of males using three different GAL4 drivers which are expressed in the mushroom bodies induced a female-like reduced siesta, while the masculinisation of females using these drivers triggered the male-like increased siesta. We also observed a similar reversal of sex-specific sleep by miss-expressing tra in the fat body, a key tissue in energy metabolism and hormone secretion. In addition, the daily expression levels of takeout, an important circadian clock output gene, were sexually dimorphic. Taken together, our experiments suggest that sleep-sexual dimorphism in Drosophila is driven by multiple neural and non-neural circuits, within and outside the brain.', u'Standard BOLD connectivity analyses depend on aggregating the signals of individual voxel within regions of interest (ROIs). In certain cases, this aggregation implies a loss of valuable functional and anatomical information about sub-regions of voxels that drive the ROI level connectivity. We describe a data-driven statistical search method that identifies the voxels that are chiefly responsible for exchanging signals between regions of interest that are known to be effectively connected. We apply the method to high-resolution resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) data from medial temporal lobe regions of interest of a single healthy individual measured repeated times over a year and a half. The method successfully recovered densely connected voxels within larger ROIs of entorhinal cortex and hippocampus subfields consistent with the well-known medial temporal lobe structural connectivity. To assess the performance of our method in more common scanning protocols we apply it to resting state fMRI data of corticostriatal regions of interest for 50 healthy individuals. The method recovered densely connected voxels within the caudate nucleus and the putamen in good qualitative agreement with structural connectivity measurements. We describe related methods for estimation of effective connections at the voxel level that merit investigation.', u'There is high variability in the level of herbivory between individual plants from the same species with potential effects on population dynamics, community composition, and ecosystem structure and function. This variability can be partly explained by associational effects i.e. the impact of the presence of neighboring plants on the level of herbivory experienced by a focal plant, but it is still unclear how the spatial scale of plant neighborhood modulates foraging choice of herbivores; an inherently spatial process in itself. Using a meta-analysis, we investigated how spatial scale modifies associational effects on the susceptibility to browsing by herbivores with movement capacities similar to deer. From 2496 articles found in literature databases, we selected 46 studies providing a total of 168 differences of means in damage by herbivores or survival to woody plants (mostly) with and without neighboring plants. Spatial scales were reported as distance between plants or as plot size. We estimated the relationships between the effect sizes and spatial scale, type of associational effects and nature of the experiment using meta-analysis mixed models. The strength of associational effects declined with increasing plot size, regardless of the type of associational effects. Associational defences (i.e. decrease in herbivory for focal plants associated with unpalatable neighbors) had stronger magnitude than associational susceptibilities. The high remaining heterogeneity among studies suggests that untested factors modulate associational effects, such as nutritional quality of focal and neighboring plants, density of herbivores, timing of browsing, etc. Associational effects are already considered in multiple restoration contexts worldwide, but a better understanding of these relationships could improve their use in conservation, restoration and forest exploitation when browsing is a concern. This study is the first to investigate spatial patterns of associational effects across species and ecosystems, an issue that is essential to determine differential herbivory damages among plants.', u'Joint analysis of data from multiple studies in collaborative efforts strengthens scientific evidence, with the gold standard approach being the pooling of individual participant data (IPD). However, sharing IPD often has legal, ethical, and logistic constraints for sensitive or high-dimensional data, such as in clinical trials, observational studies, and large-scale omics studies. Therefore, meta-analysis of study-level effect estimates is routinely done, but this compromises on statistical power, accuracy, and flexibility. Here we propose a novel meta-analytical approach, named partial derivatives meta-analysis, that is mathematically equivalent to using IPD, yet only requires the sharing of aggregate data. It not only yields identical results as pooled IPD analyses, but also allows post-hoc adjustments for covariates and stratification without the need for site-specific re-analysis. Thus, in case that IPD cannot be shared, partial derivatives meta-analysis still produces gold standard results, which can be used to better inform guidelines and policies on clinical practice.', u'We present the simple phenomenological (but -- analytic) model allowing to formalize\ndescription of multitasking, i.e. simultaneous performing several tasks. That process\nrequires distribution of attention, and for great number of goals do not lead to\nsuccess. Our consideration shows that simultaneous performing more than two tasks is, most likely, impossible.', u'Neuronal function depends on the appropriate subcellular distribution of channels, receptors, mRNAs, and other components. Trafficking of subcellular cargo to specific locations is regulated by local signals such as synaptic input, yet it remains unclear how such a decentralized system performs in complex morphologies. We mathematically formalize a popular, conceptual model of microtubule transport (the "sushi-belt model", Doyle and Kiebler, 2011), and show that it can achieve arbitrarily complex spatial distributions of cargo in realistic morphologies. However, we reveal that this model predicts a critical tradeoff between the speed and precision of cargo delivery; given experimental estimates of trafficking kinetics the model predicts delays of many hours for modestly accurate cargo distribution. We explore the possibility that biological mechanisms might have more sophisticated, globally fine-tuned trafficking kinetics to enable both fast and precise transport; however, tuned mechanisms are less flexible, and are fragile to changes in spatial demand for cargo.', u'The Agilent 2100 Bioanalyzer (Agilent Technologies, CA, USA) enables small-scale gel electrophoretic separation of nucleic acids on a microfluidic chip. Shortage of chips and excess reagents is a common issue. This report explored the compatibility of two commonly used Bioanalyzer reagents with three Bioanalyzer chip types. Microfluidic electrophoretic separation of DNA and RNA using DNA High Sensitivity and RNA 6000 Nano reagents, respectively, was successfully performed on multiple chip types, following the assay-specific protocol. For RNA quality and next-generation sequencing library size estimation, the Bioanalyzer chips tested can be used interchangeably. These findings will be valuable for any laboratory using the Agilent Bioanalyzer in a shared facility.', u'Expression analysis and variant calling workflows are employed to identify genes that either exhibit a differential behaviour or have a significant functional impact of mutations. This is always followed by pathway analysis which provides greater insights and simplifies explanation of observed phenotype. The current techniques used towards this purpose have some serious limitations. In this paper, we propose a theoretical framework to overcome many limitations of current techniques. Our framework takes into account the networked nature of the data and provides facility to weigh each gene differently and in the process we do away with the need of arbitrary cut-offs. This framework is designed to be modular and provides the researchers with flexibility to plug analytical tools of their choice for every component. We also demonstrate effectiveness of our approach for personalized and cohort analysis of cancer gene expression samples with PageRank as one of the modules in the framework.', u'Recent progress in genome editing technologies, in particular the CRISPR-Cas9 system, has provided new opportunities to investigate the biological functions of genomic sequences by targeted mutagenesis. Double strand breaks (DSBs) resulting from site-specific Cas9 cleavage can be resolved by endogenous DNA repair pathways such as non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) or homology-directed repair (HDR). Deep sequencing of amplified genomic regions allows for quantitative and sensitive detection of targeted mutations. However, no standard analytic tool to date has been developed to systematically enumerate and visualize these events, and to solve challenging issues such as amplification or sequencing errors, experimental variation in sequence quality, ambiguous alignment of variable length indels, and difficulty in deconvoluting mixed HDR/NHEJ outcomes. To address these issues we developed CRISPResso, a robust computational pipeline that enables accurate quantification and visualization of CRISPR-Cas9 outcomes as well as comprehensive evaluation of effects on coding sequences, noncoding elements and selected off-target sites.', u"We used genome-wide data on protein expression and mutant phenotypes to compare the cost and the benefit of each protein in Escherichia coli K-12 during growth in minimal glucose medium.  Proteins that are important for fitness are usually highly expressed, and 95% of these proteins are expressed at above 13 parts per million (ppm). Conversely, proteins that do not measurably benefit the host tend to be weakly expressed, with a median expression of 13 ppm. In aggregate, genes with no detectable benefit account for 31% of protein production, or about 21% if we correct for genetic redundancy. Although some of the apparently unnecessary expression could have subtle benefits in minimal glucose medium, the majority of the burden is due to genes that are important in other conditions. We propose that over 10% of the cell's protein is allocated to preparation for less favorable conditions.", u'Cognitive impairments associated with crossed aphasia were investigated in a single case study and a review of the literature.  A review of literature identifies 4 main cognitive co-morbidities that are significantly associated with crossed aphasia. We present a case of confirmed crossed aphasia with dyslexia and dysgraphia, in which the latter two cannot be fully explained by the current lesion and are probable developmental disorders (dyslexia/dysgraphia). Extensive longitudinal cognitive investigations and a series of advanced imaging techniques (structural and functional) were used to investigate the cognitive and neuroanatomical basis of crossed aphasia and associated impairments in this patient. Using the results from the literature review and the single case study, we suggest that developmental disorders can be an underlying cause of partial right lateralisation shift of language processes, thereby supporting the theory that developmental disorders can be an underlying cause of crossed aphasia.', u'Abstract The standard models for genomic prediction assume additive polygenic marker effects. For epistatic models including marker interaction effects, the number of effects to be fitted becomes large, which require computational tools tailored specifically for such models. Here, we extend the methods implemented in the R package bigRR so that marker interaction effects can be computed. Simulation results based on marker data from Arabidopsis thaliana show that the inclusion of interaction effects between markers can give a small but significant improvement in genomic predictions. The methods were implemented in the R package EPISbigRR available in the bigRR project on R-Forge. The package includes an introductory vignette to the functions available in EPISbigRR.', u'Viral coinfection is a common across taxa and environments. Coinfection can enable genetic exchange, alter the dynamics of infections, and change the course of viral evolution. Despite the importance of coinfection to viral ecology and evolution, the factors that influence the frequency and extent of viral coinfection remain largely unexplored. Here I employ an extensive data set of virus-host interactions representing 6,564 microbial hosts and 13,103 viruses, to test the importance of bacterial traits and virus-virus interactions in shaping coinfection dynamics across a wide variety of taxa and environments. Using data from phage-host infection matrices, I found that bacterial ecology was the most important factor explaining variation (>28%) in the potential for coinfection. Realized (actual) coinfection was affected by bacterial defense mechanisms at the single-cell level. In a natural environment, the presence of CRISPR spacers in marine bacteria limited coinfections with active viruses by ~50%, despite the absence of spacer matches in any active infection. Analysis of viral infections mined from published bacterial and archaeal sequence data (n= 5,492 hosts), showed prophages limited coinfection of host cultures by other prophages, but not extrachromosomal viruses. At the single-cell level, prophages virtually eliminated coinfection. Virus-virus interactions also enhanced coinfection with culture coinfection by ssDNA and dsDNA viruses twice as likely to occur than ssDNA-only coinfections. Collectively, these results suggest bacterial ecology and virus-virus interactions are strong drivers of coinfection across different taxa and environments. These findings highlight that virus-virus interactions constitute an important selective pressure on viruses that is often underappreciated.', u'Nanopore sequencing at single-base resolution is challenging. There are developing technologies to convert DNA molecules to expanded constructs. Such constructs can be sequenced by nanopores in place of the original DNA molecules. We present a novel method for converting genomic DNA to expanded constructs (proxies) with 99.67% accuracy.\nOur method reads each base in each DNA fragment and appends an oligonucleotide to the DNA fragment after each base reading. Each appended oligonucleotide represents a specific base type, so that the proxy construct consisting of all the appended oligonucleotides faithfully represents the original DNA sequence. We generated proxies for genomic DNA and confirmed the identities of both the proxies and their corresponding original DNA sequences by performing sequencing using Ion Torrent sequencer. \nConversion to proxies had only 0.33% raw error rate. Errors were: 93.96% deletions, 5.29% insertions, and 0.74% substitutions. The longest sequenced proxy was 170 bases, corresponding to a 17-base original DNA sequence. The short length of the detected proxies reflected restrictions imposed by Ion Torrent short reads and was not caused by limitations of our method. The consensus sequence built by using proxies alone (average length: 120 bases; corresponding to original sequences with average length 12 bases ) covered 55% of the reference genome with 100% accuracy, and outperformed the Ion Torrent sequencing of the corresponding original DNA fragments in terms of accuracy, coverage and number of aligned sequences. Data and other materials can be found at http://www.vastogen.com/data.html .\nThis proof-of-concept experiment demonstrates highly accurate proxy construction at the whole genome level. To our knowledge, this is the first demonstrated construction of expanded versions of DNA at the whole genome level.', u'We give recursions for the expected site-frequency spectrum associated\nwith so-called  Xi-coalescents,  that is exchangeable coalescents   which admit simultaneous multiple mergers\nof ancestral lineages.  Xi-coalescents arise, for example, in\nassociation   with population models of  skewed offspring distributions with  diploidy,  recurrent  advantageous mutations,   or strong\nbottlenecks. In contrast, the simpler  Lambda-coalescents admit multiple mergers of\nlineages, but at most one such merger each time.   \nXi-coalescents, as well as Lambda-coalescents,  can predict an excess of singletons, compared to the\nKingman coalescent.  We compare estimates of coalescent parameters\nwhen Xi-coalescents  are applied to data generated by\nLambda-coalescents, and vice versa.  In general, Xi-coalescents\npredict fewer singletons than corresponding Lambda-coalescents, but a\nhigher count of mutations of size larger than singletons.  We fit  examples of Xi-coalescents to\nunfolded site-frequency spectra obtained for autosomal  loci of the\ndiploid Atlantic cod, and obtain different coalescent parameter\nestimates than obtained with corresponding Lambda-coalescents.  Our\nresults provide new inference tools, and suggest that for autosomal\npopulation genetic data from diploid or polyploid highly fecund populations who may have  skewed offspring distributions, one\nshould not apply Lambda-coalescents, but  Xi-coalescents.', u'Systems biology uses genome-scale data to determine the molecular mechanisms behind normal and disease states. We developed a novel computational method, which allowed for the first time, identification of a disease-associated signature across multiple tissues and organs in systemic sclerosis (SSc), a rare and sometimes fatal autoimmune disease. We find a common immune-fibrotic axis associated with the most severe disease phenotypes, including pulmonary fibrosis and pulmonary arterial hypertension. We evaluated disease-associated gene-gene interactions in the context of tissue-specific functional genomic networks and utilized differential network analysis to gain important insights into the role of pro-fibrotic macrophages in SSc. Using a novel cell type-aware multi-network approach, we find that genes modulated by immunosuppressive treatment occupy privileged positions in the skin-specific network. In total, this study not only presents a set of putative therapeutic targets for SSc, but a framework for multi-tissue functional genomic studies of complex human disease.', u'In the present paper, we have created and characterized several similarity metrics for relating any two Medical Subject Headings (MeSH terms) to each other. The article-based metric measures the tendency of two MeSH terms to appear in the MEDLINE record of the same article. The author-based metric measures the tendency of two MeSH terms to appear in the body of articles written by the same individual (using the 2009 Author-ity author name disambiguation dataset as a gold standard). The two metrics are only modestly correlated with each other (r = 0.50), indicating that they capture different aspects of term usage. The article-based metric provides a measure of semantic relatedness, and MeSH term pairs that co-occur more often than expected by chance may reflect relations between the two terms. In contrast, the author metric is indicative of how individuals practice science, and may have value for author name disambiguation and studies of scientific discovery. We have calculated article metrics for all MeSH terms appearing in at least 25 articles in MEDLINE (as of 2014) and author metrics for MeSH terms published as of 2009. The dataset is freely available for download and can be queried at http://arrowsmith.psych.uic.edu/arrowsmith_uic/mesh_pair_metrics.html.', u'Studies dating back to the 1970s established that binding between the anti-Shine-Dalgarno (aSD) sequence on prokaryotic ribosomes and mRNA helps to facilitate translation initiation. The location of aSD binding relative to the start codon, the full extents of the aSD sequence, and the functional form of the relationship between aSD binding and translation efficiency are important parameters that remain ill defined in the literature. Here, we leverage genome-wide estimates of translation efficiency to determine these parameters and show that anti-Shine-Dalgarno sequence binding increases the translation of endogenous mRNAs on the order of 50%. Our findings highlight the non-linearity of this relationship, showing that translation efficiency is maximized for sequences with intermediate aSD binding strengths. These mechanistic insights are highly robust; we find nearly identical results in ribosome profiling datasets from 3 highly diverged bacteria, as well as independent genome-scale estimates and controlled experimental data using recombinant GFP expression.', u'Motivation: Understanding the occurrence and regulation of alternative splicing (AS) is a key task towards explaining the regulatory processes that shape the complex transcriptomes of higher eukaryotes. With the advent of high-throughput sequencing of RNA (RNA-Seq), the diversity of AS transcripts could be measured at an unprecedented depth. Although the catalog of known AS events has grown ever since, novel transcripts are commonly observed when working with less well annotated organisms, in the context of disease, or within large populations. Whereas an identification of complete transcripts is technically challenging and computationally expensive, focusing on single splicing events as a proxy for transcriptome characteristics is fruitful and sufficient for a wide range of analyses. \n\nResults: We present SplAdder, an alternative splicing toolbox, that takes RNA-Seq alignments and an annotation file as input to i) augment the annotation based on RNA-Seq evidence, ii) identify alternative splicing events present in the augmented annotation graph, iii) quantify and confirm these events based on the RNA-Seq data, and iv) test for significant quantitative differences between samples. Thereby, our main focus lies on performance, accuracy and usability.\n\nAvailability: Source code and documentation are available for download at http://github.com/ratschlab/spladder. Example data, introductory information and a small tutorial are accessible via http://bioweb.me/spladder.\n\nContact: andre.kahles@ratschlab.org, gunnar.ratsch@ratschlab.org', u'Comparative and evolutive ecologists are interested in the distribution of quantitative traits among related species. The classical framework for these distributions consists of a random process running along the branches of a phylogenetic tree relating the species. We consider shifts in the process parameters, which reveal fast adaptation to changes of ecological niches. We show that models with shifts are not identifiable in general. Constraining the models to be parsimonious in the number of shifts partially alleviates the problem but several evolutionary scenarios can still provide the same joint distribution for the extant species. We provide a recursive algorithm to enumerate all the equivalent scenarios and to count the effectively different scenarios. We introduce an incomplete-data framework and develop a maximum likelihood estimation procedure based on the EM algorithm. Finally, we propose a model selection procedure, based on the cardinal of effective scenarios, to estimate the number of shifts and prove an oracle inequality.', u'The twenty-first century vision for toxicology involves a transition away from high-dose animal studies and into in vitro and computational models. This movement requires mapping pathways of toxicity through an understanding of how in vitro systems respond to chemical perturbation. Uncovering transcription factors responsible for gene expression patterns is essential for defining pathways of toxicity, and ultimately, for determining chemical mode of action, through which a toxicant acts. Traditionally this is achieved via chromatin immunoprecipitation studies and summarized by calculating, which transcription factors are statistically associated with the up- and down-regulated genes. These lists are commonly determined via statistical or fold-change cutoffs, a procedure that is sensitive to statistical power and may not be relevant to determining transcription factor associations. To move away from an arbitrary statistical or fold-change based cutoffs, we have developed in the context of the Mapping the Human Toxome project, a novel enrichment paradigm called Information Dependent Enrichment Analysis (IDEA) to guide identification of the transcription factor network. We used the test case of endocrine disruption of MCF-7 cells activated by 17\u03b2 estradiol (E2). Using this new approach, we were able to establish a time course for transcriptional and functional responses to E2. ER\u03b1 and ER\u03b2 are associated with short-term transcriptional changes in response to E2. Sustained exposure leads to the recruitment of an additional ensemble of transcription factors and alteration of cell-cycle machinery. TFAP2C and SOX2 were the transcription factors most highly correlated with dose. E2F7, E2F1 and Foxm1, which are involved in cell proliferation, were enriched only at 24h. IDEA is, therefore, a novel tool to identify candidate pathways of toxicity, clearly outperforming Gene-set Enrichment Analysis but with similar results as Weighted Gene Correlation Network Analysis, which helps to identify genes not annotated to pathways.', u'Genetic variants that disrupt protein-coding DNA are ubiquitous in the human population, with ~100 such loss-of-function variants per individual. While most loss-of-function variants are rare, a subset have risen to high frequency and occur in a homozygous state in healthy individuals. It is unknown why these common variants are well-tolerated, even though some affect essential genes implicated in Mendelian disease. Here, we combine genomic, proteomic, and biochemical data to demonstrate that many common nonsense variants do not ablate protein production from their host genes. We provide direct evidence for previously proposed mechanisms of gene rescue such as alternative splicing and C-terminal truncation. Furthermore, we identify novel mechanisms of rescue, including alternative translation initiation at non-canonical start codons and stop codon readthrough. Our results suggest a molecular explanation for the mild fitness costs of common nonsense variants, and indicate that translational plasticity plays a prominent role in shaping human genetic diversity.', u'The origin and evolution of species ranges remains a central focus of historical biogeography and the advent of likelihood methods based on phylogenies has revolutionized the way in which range evolution has been studied. A decade ago, the first elements of what turned out to be a popular inference approach of ancestral ranges based on the processes of Dispersal, local Extinction and Cladogenesis (DEC) was proposed. The success of the DEC model lies in its use of a flexible statistical framework known as a Continuous Time Markov Chain and since, several conceptual and computational improvements have been proposed using this as a baseline approach. In the spirit of the original version of DEC, we introduce DEC eXtended (DECX) by accounting for rapid expansion and local extinction as possible anagenetic events on the phylogeny but without increasing model complexity (i.e. in the number of free parameters). Classical vicariance as a cladogenetic event is also incorporated by making use of temporally flexible constraints on the connectivity between any two given areas in accordance with the movement of landmasses and dispersal opportunity over time. DECX is built upon a previous implementation in C/C++ and can analyze phylogenies on the order of several thousand tips in a few minutes. We test our model extensively on Pseudo Observed Datasets and on well-curated and recently published data from various island clades and a worldwide phylogeny of Amphibians (3309 species). We also propose the very first implementation of the DEC model that can specifically account for trees with fossil tips (i.e. non-ultrametric) using the phylogeny of palpimanoid spiders as a case study. In this paper, we argue in favour of the proposed improvements, which have the advantage of being computationally efficient while toeing the line of increased biological realism.', u'Field studies of wild vertebrates are frequently associated with extensive collections of banked fecal samples, which are often collected from known individuals and sometimes also sampled longitudinally across time. Such collections represent unique resources for understanding ecological, behavioral, and phylogenetic effects on the gut microbiome, especially for species of particular conservation concern. However, we do not understand whether sample storage methods confound the ability to investigate interindividual variation in gut microbiome profiles. This uncertainty arises in part because comparisons across storage methods to date generally include only a few (\u22645) individuals, or analyze pooled samples. Here, we used n=52 samples from 13 rhesus macaque individuals to compare immediate freezing, the gold standard of preservation, to three methods commonly used in vertebrate field studies: storage in ethanol, lyophilization following ethanol storage, and storage in RNAlater. We found that the signature of individual identity consistently outweighed storage effects: alpha diversity and beta diversity measures were significantly correlated across methods, and while samples often clustered by donor, they never clustered by storage method. Provided that all analyzed samples are stored the same way, banked fecal samples therefore appear highly suitable for investigating variation in gut microbiota. Our results open the door to a much-expanded perspective on variation in the gut microbiome across species and ecological contexts.', u'The discoveries of myriad non-coding RNA molecules, each transiting through multiple flexible states in cells or virions, present major challenges for structure determination. Advances in high-throughput chemical mapping give new routes for characterizing entire transcriptomes in vivo, but the resulting one-dimensional data generally remain too information-poor to allow accurate de novo structure determination. Multidimensional chemical mapping (MCM) methods seek to address this challenge. Mutate-and-map (M2), RNA interaction groups by mutational profiling (RING-MaP and MaP-2D analysis) and multiplexed .OH cleavage analysis (MOHCA) measure how the chemical reactivities of every nucleotide in an RNA molecule change in response to modifications at every other nucleotide. A growing body of in vitro blind tests and compensatory mutation/rescue experiments indicate that MCM methods give consistently accurate secondary structures and global tertiary structures for ribozymes, ribosomal domains and ligand-bound riboswitch aptamers up to two hundred nucleotides in length. Importantly, MCM analyses provide detailed information on structurally heterogeneous RNA states, such as ligand-free riboswitches, that are functionally important but difficult to resolve with other approaches. The sequencing requirements of currently available MCM protocols scale at least quadratically with RNA length, precluding general application to transcriptomes or viral genomes at present. We propose a modify-crosslink-map expansion to overcome this and other current limitations to resolving the in vivo "RNA structurome".', u'Mycobacterium tuberculosis is a deadly human pathogen that latently infects a third of the worlds population, resulting in approximately 1.5 million deaths per year. Due to the difficulties and expense of carrying out animal drug trials using M. tuberculosis and rodents, infections of the zebrafish Danio rerio with M. marinum have been used as a surrogate. However the methods so far described require specialised equipment and a high level of operator expertise. We investigated a natural infection model where zebrafish embryos are infected through incubation in media containing M. marinum. Using bioluminescently labelled M. marinum, we have characterised the nature of infection and established a model for interventional drug therapy. We have used a selection of traditional and experimental compounds to validate this model for anti-mycobacterial drug discovery. We observed that only three of the six treatments tested (Delamonid, SN30527 and rifampicin) retarded the growth of M. marinum in vitro. In contrast, five of the six treatments (Pretomanid, Delamanid, SN30488, SN30527 and rifampicin) retarded the growth of M. tuberculosis in vitro. Importantly, these same five treatments significantly reduced the bioluminescent signal from naturally infected zebrafish embryos. Overall this study has demonstrated that zebrafish embryos naturally infected with bioluminescent M. marinum M can be used for the rapid screening of anti-mycobacterial compounds with readily available equipment and limited expertise. The result is an assay that can be carried out by a wide variety of laboratories for minimal cost and without high levels of zebrafish expertise.', u'Post-translational modifications of histone residue tails are an important component of genome regulation. It is becoming increasingly clear that the combinatorial presence and absence of various modifications define discrete chromatin states which determine the functional properties of a locus. An emerging experimental goal is to compare genome-wide chromatin state maps across different conditions, such as experimental treatments, cell-types or developmental time points. Here we present chromstaR, an algorithm for the computational inference of combinatorial chromatin state dynamics across an arbitrary number of conditions. ChromstaR uses a multivariate Hidden Markov Model to assign every genomic region to a discrete combinatorial chromatin state based on the presence/absence of each modification in every condition. This interpretation makes it easy to relate the inferred chromatin states back to the underlying histone modification patterns. Moreover, the algorithm computes the number of combinatorial chromatin states that are present in the genome without having to specify them a priori, thus providing an unbiased picture of their genome-wide frequencies. We demonstrate the advantages of chromstaR in the context of three common experimental data scenarios. First, we study how different histone modifications combine to form combinatorial chromatin states in a single tissue. Second, we infer genome-wide patterns of combinatorial state differences between two cell types or conditions. Finally, we study the dynamics of combinatorial chromatin states during tissue differentiation involving up to six differentiation points. chromstaR is a versatile computational tool that facilitates a deeper biological understanding of chromatin organization and dynamics. The algorithm is written in C++ and freely availableas an R-package at https://github.com/ataudt/chromstaR.', u'Platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) drives the formation of gliomas in an experimental animal model, which notably involves the recruitment of large numbers of glial progenitor cells (Assanah 2006). In order to understand the underlying mechanism, particularly what factors influence the degree of recruitment, and how varied amounts of PDGF would affect the gross characteristics and overall appearance of tumors in the brain, we adapted a reaction diffusion model of glioma, which has been used for analyzing clinical data, to model the interactions at play in these experimental models.', u'Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is a rapidly evolving pathogen that causes chronic infections, so genetic diversity within a single infection can be very high. High-throughput \u201cdeep\u201d sequencing can now measure this diversity in unprecedented detail, particularly since it can be performed at different timepoints during an infection, and this offers a potentially powerful way to infer the evolutionary dynamics of the intra-host viral population. However, population genomic inference from HIV sequence data is challenging because of high rates of mutation and recombination, rapid demographic changes, and ongoing selective pressures. In this paper we develop a new method for inference using HIV deep sequencing data using an approach based on importance sampling of ancestral recombination graphs under a multi-locus coalescent model. The approach further extends recent progress in the approximation of so-called conditional sampling distributions, a quantity of key interest when approximating coalescent likelihoods. The chief novelties of our method are that it is able to infer rates of recombination and mutation, as well as the effective population size, while handling sampling over different timepoints and missing data without extra computational difficulty. We apply our method to a dataset of HIV-1, in which several hundred sequences were obtained from an infected individual at seven timepoints over two years. We find mutation rate and effective population size estimates to be comparable to those produced by the software BEAST. Additionally, our method is able to produce local recombination rate estimates. The software underlying our method, Coalescenator, is freely available.', u'The activity of ensembles of simultaneously recorded neurons can be represented as a set of points in the space of firing rates. Even though the dimension of this space is equal to the ensemble size, neural activity can be effectively localized on smaller subspaces. The dimensionality of the neural space is an important determinant of the computational tasks supported by the neural activity. Here, we investigate the dimensionality of neural ensembles from the sensory cortex of alert rats during periods of ongoing (inter-trial) and stimulus-evoked activity. We find that dimensionality grows linearly with ensemble size, and grows significantly faster during ongoing activity compared to evoked activity. We explain these results using a spiking network model based on a clustered architecture. The model captures the difference in growth rate between ongoing and evoked activity and predicts a characteristic scaling with ensemble size that could be tested in high-density multi-electrode recordings. Moreover, we present a simple theory that predicts the existence of an upper bound on dimensionality. This upper bound is inversely proportional to the amount of pair-wise correlations and, compared to a homogeneous network without clusters, it is larger by a factor equal to the number of clusters. The empirical estimation of such bounds depends on the number and duration of trials and is well predicted by the theory. Together, these results provide a framework to analyze neural dimensionality in alert animals, its behavior under stimulus presentation, and its theoretical dependence on ensemble size, number of clusters, and correlations in spiking network models.', u'Many adaptive events in natural populations, as well as response to artificial selection, are\ncaused by polygenic action. Under selective pressure, the adaptive traits can quickly respond via\nsmall allele frequency shifts spread across numerous loci. We hypothesize that a large proportion of\ncurrent phenotypic variation between individuals may be best explained by population admixture.\nWe thus consider the complete, genome-wide universe of genetic variability, spread across several\nancestral populations originally separated. We experimentally confirmed this hypothesis by pre-\ndicting the differences in quantitative disease resistance levels among accessions in the wild legume\nMedicago truncatula. We discovered also that variation in genome admixture proportion explains\nmost of phenotypic variation for several quantitative functional traits, but not for symbiotic nitro-\ngen fixation. We shown that positive selection at the species level might not explain current, rapid\nadaptation.\nThese findings prove the infinitesimal model as a mechanism for adaptation of quantitative\nphenotypes. Our study produced the first evidence that the whole-genome modeling of DNA\nvariants is the best approach to describe an inherited quantitative trait in a higher eukaryote\norganism and proved the high potential of admixture-based analyses. This insight contribute to\nthe understanding of polygenic adaptation, and can accelerate plant and animal breeding, and\nbiomedicine research programs.', u'Detecting the targets of adaptive natural selection from whole genome sequencing data is a central problem for population genetics. However, to date most methods have shown sub-optimal performance under realistic demographic scenarios. Moreover, over the past decade there has been a renewed interest in determining the importance of selection from standing variation in adaptation of natural populations, yet very few methods for inferring this model of adaptation at the genome scale have been introduced. Here we introduce a new method, S/HIC, which uses supervised machine learning to precisely infer the location of both hard and soft selective sweeps. We show that S/HIC has unrivaled accuracy for detecting sweeps under demographic histories that are relevant to human populations, and distinguishing sweeps from linked as well as neutrally evolving regions. Moreover we show that S/HIC is uniquely robust among its competitors to model misspecification. Thus even if the true demographic model of a population differs catastrophically from that specified by the user, S/HIC still retains impressive discriminatory power. Finally we apply S/HIC to the case of resequencing data from human chromosome 18 in a European population sample and demonstrate that we can reliably recover selective sweeps that have been identified earlier using less specific and sensitive methods.', u'The eukaryotic ubiquitin system regulates essential cell events such as DNA repair, protein homeostasis, and signal transduction. Like many biochemical processes, ubiquitination must ensure signaling efficiency and in the meantime maintain substrate specificity. We examine this signal-specificity relationship by theoretical models of polyubiquitinations that tag proteins for the proteasomal degradation. Parsimonious models provide explicit formulas to key measurable quantities and offer guiding insights into the signal-specificity tradeoffs under varying structures and kinetics. Models with measured kinetics from two primary cell-cycle ligases (SCF and APC) explain mechanisms of chain initiation, elongation slowdown, chain-length dependence of E3-substrate affinity, and deubiquitinases. We find that substrate discrimination over ubiquitin transfer rates is consistently more efficient than over substrate-E3 ligase binding energy, regardless of circuit structure, parameter value, and dynamics. E3-associated substrate deubiquitination increases the discrimination over the former and in the meantime decreases the latter, further widening their difference. Both discrimination strategies might be simultaneously explored by an E3 system to effectively proofread substrates as we demonstrated by analyzing experimental data from the CD4-Vpu-SCF system. We also identify that sequential deubiquitination circuit may act as a specificity switch, by which a modest change in deubiquitination and/or processivity can greatly increase substrate discrimination without much compromise in degradation signal. This property may be utilized as a gatekeeper mechanism to direct a temporal polyubiquitination and thus degradation order of substrates with small biochemical differences.', u'The evolutionary dynamics of transposable elements (TEs) are still poorly understood. One reason is that TE abundance needs to be studied at the population level, and despite recent advances in sequencing technologies, characterizing TE abundance in multiple populations by sequencing individuals separately is still too expensive.\nWhile sequencing pools of individuals (Pool-Seq) dramatically reduces sequencing costs, a comparison of TE abundance between pooled samples has been difficult, if not impossible, due to various biases. \nHere, we introduce a novel bioinformatic tool, PoPoolationTE2, which is specifically tailored for the comparison of TE abundance among pooled population samples or different tissues. Using computer simulations we demonstrate that PoPoolationTE2 not only faithfully recovers TE insertion frequencies and positions but, by homogenizing the power to identify TEs acrosss samples, it provides an unbiased comparison of TE abundance between pooled population samples. We anticipate that PoPoolationTE2 will greatly facilitate the analysis of TE insertion patterns in a broad range of applications.', u'Measuring genome-wide changes in transcript abundance in circulating peripheral whole blood cells is a useful way to study disease pathobiology and may help elucidate biomarkers and molecular mechanisms of disease. The sensitivity and interpretability of analyses carried out in this complex tissue, however, are significantly affected by its dynamic heterogeneity. It is therefore desirable to quantify this heterogeneity, either to account for it or to better model interactions that may be present between the abundance of certain transcripts, some cell types and the indication under study. Accurate enumeration of the many component cell types that make up peripheral whole blood can be costly, however, and may further complicate the sample collection process. Many approaches have been developed to infer the composition of a sample from high-dimensional transcriptomic and, more recently, epigenetic data. These approaches rely on the availability of isolated expression profiles for the cell types to be enumerated. These profiles are platform-specific, suitable datasets are rare, and generating them is expensive. No such dataset exists on the Affymetrix Gene ST platform. We present a freely-available, and open source, multi-response Gaussian model capable of accurately predicting the composition of peripheral whole blood samples from Affymetrix Gene ST expression profiles. This model outperforms other current methods when applied to Gene ST data and could potentially be used to enrich the >10,000 Affymetrix Gene ST blood gene expression profiles currently available on GEO.', u'Recent genetic studies have established that the KhoeSan populations of southern Africa are distinct from all other African populations and have remained largely isolated during human prehistory until about 2,000 years ago. Dozens of different KhoeSan groups exist, belonging to three different language families, but very little is known about population history within southern Africa. We examine new genome-wide polymorphism data and whole mitochondrial genomes for more than one hundred South Africans from the \u2260Khomani San and Nama populations of the Northern Cape, analyzed in conjunction with 19 additional southern African populations. Our analyses reveal fine-scale population structure in and around the Kalahari Desert. Surprisingly, this structure does not always correspond to linguistic or subsistence categories as previously suggested, but rather reflects the role of geographic barriers and the ecology of the greater Kalahari Basin. Regardless of subsistence strategy, the indigenous Khoe-speaking Nama pastoralists and the N|u-speaking \u2260Khomani (formerly hunter-gatherers) share recent ancestry with other Khoe-speaking forager populations that forms a rim around the Kalahari Desert. We reconstruct earlier migration patterns and estimate that the southern Kalahari populations were among the last to experience gene flow from Bantu-speakers, approximately 14 generations ago. We conclude that local adoption of pastoralism, at least by the Nama, appears to have been primarily a cultural process with limited impact from eastern African genetic diffusion.', u'Current methods for processing diffusion MRI (dMRI) to map the connectivity of the human brain require precise delineations of anatomical structures. This requirement has been approached by either segmenting the data in native dMRI space or mapping the structural information from T1-weighted (T1w) images. The characteristic features of diffusion data in terms of signal-to-noise ratio, resolution, as well as the geometrical distortions caused by the inhomogeneity of magnetic susceptibility across tissues hinder both solutions. Unifying the two approaches, we propose regseg, a surface-to-volume nonlinear registration method that segments homogeneous regions within multivariate images by mapping a set of nested reference-surfaces. Accurate surfaces are extracted from a T1w image of the subject, using as target image the bivariate volume comprehending the fractional anisotropy (FA) and the apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) maps derived from the dMRI dataset. We first verify the accuracy of regseg on a general context using digital phantoms distorted with synthetic and random deformations. Then we establish an evaluation framework using undistorted dMRI data from the Human Connectome Project (HCP) and realistic deformations derived from the inhomogeneity fieldmap corresponding to each subject. We analyze the performance of regseg computing the misregistration error of the surfaces estimated after being mapped with regseg onto 16 datasets from the HCP. The distribution of errors shows a 95% CI of 0.56-0.66 mm, that is below the dMRI resolution (1.25 mm, isotropic). Finally, we cross-compare the proposed tool against a nonlinear b0-to-T2w registration method, thereby obtaining a significantly lower misregistration error with regseg. The accurate mapping of structural information in dMRI space is fundamental to increase the reliability of network building in connectivity analyses, and to improve the performance of the emerging structure-informed techniques for dMRI data processing.', u'While forming and updating beliefs about future life outcomes, people tend to consider good news and to disregard bad news. This tendency is supposed to support the optimism bias. Whether learning bias is specific to high-level abstract belief update or a particular expression of a more general low-level reinforcement learning process is unknown. Here we report evidence in favor of the second hypothesis. In a simple instrumental learning task, participants incorporated worse-than-expected outcomes at a lower rate compared to better-than-expected ones. This asymmetry was correlated across subjects with standard measure of dispositional optimism. Multimodal imaging indicated that inter-individual variability in the expression of asymmetric update relies on the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex at both morphological and functional levels. Our results constitute a new step in the understanding of the genesis of optimism bias at the neurocomputational level.', u'Somatic copy number amplifications (SCNAs) and gene over-expression are common features of many cancers. To determine the role of gene over-expression on genome stability, we performed functional genomic screens in the budding yeast for chromosome instability, a defining characteristic of cancer that can be targeted by therapeutics. Over-expression of 245 yeast genes increases chromosome instability by influencing processes such as chromosome segregation and DNA damage repair. Testing candidate human homologs, which were highly recurrently altered in tumors lead to the identification of 2 genes, Tdp1 and Taf12 that contribute to CIN in human cells when over-expressed. Rhabdomyosarcoma lines with higher levels of Tdp1 also show chromosome instability and can be partially rescued by siRNA-mediated knockdown of Tdp1. Using synthetic dosage lethality screens in yeast, we identified candidate target genes that will specifically target tumors with high levels of Tdp1. We demonstrate the utility of functional genetic screens in model organisms to broaden the spectrum of CIN genes, to identify novel genes relevant to chromosome instability in humans and to identify candidate gene targets that can be leveraged to selectively kill tumors over-expressing specific genes.', u'Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease primarily affecting motor neurons (MNs) to cause progressive paralysis. Ninety percent of cases are sporadic (sALS) and ten percent are familial (fALS). The molecular mechanisms underlying neurodegeneration remain elusive and there is a lack of promising biomarkers that define ALS phenotypes and progression. To date, most expression studies have focused on either complex whole tissues that contain cells other than MNs or induced pluripotent derived MNs (iMNs). Furthermore, as human tissue samples have high variability, estimation of differential gene-expression is not a trivial task. Here, we report a battery of orthogonal computational analyses to discover gene-expression defects in laser capture microdissected and enriched MN RNA pools from sALS patient spinal cords in regions destined for but not yet advanced in neurodegenerative stage. We used total RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq), applied multiple percentile rank (MPR) analysis to analyze MN-specific gene-expression signatures, and used high-throughput qPCR to validate RNA-seq results. Furthermore, we used a systems-level approach that identified molecular networks perturbed in sALS MNs. Weighted gene co-expression correlation network (WGCNA) analysis revealed defects in neurotransmitter biosynthesis and RNA-processing pathways while gene-gene interaction analysis showed abnormalities in networks that pertained to cell-adhesion, immune response and wound healing. We discover gene-expression signatures that distinguish sALS from control MNs and our findings illuminate possible mechanisms of cellular toxicity. Our systematic and comprehensive analysis serves as a framework to reveal expression signatures and disrupted pathways that will be useful for future mechanistic studies and biomarker based therapeutic research.\n*Corresponding authors: geneyeo@ucsd.edu, jravits@ucsd.edu', u'Clinical influenza A isolates are rarely sequenced directly. Instead, a majority of these isolates (~70% in 2015) are first subjected to serial passaging for amplification, most commonly in non-human cell culture. Here, we find that this passaging leaves distinct signals of adaptation in the viral sequences, and it confounds evolutionary analyses of the viral sequences. We find distinct patterns of adaptation to generic (MDCK) and monkey cell culture. These patterns also dominate pooled data sets not separated by passaging type. By contrast, MDCK-SIAT1 passaged sequences seem mostly (but not entirely) free of passaging adaptations. Contrary to previous studies, we find that using only internal branches of the influenza phylogenetic trees is insufficient to correct for passaging artifacts. These artifacts can only be safely avoided by excluding passaged sequences entirely from subsequent analysis. We conclude that all future influenza evolutionary analyses must appropriately control for potentially confounding effects of passaging adaptations.', u"Clustering individuals to subpopulations based on genetic data has become commonplace in many genetic studies. Inference of population structure is most often done by applying model-based approaches, aided by visualization using distance-based approaches such as multidimensional scaling. While existing distance-based approaches suffer from lack of statistical rigor, model-based approaches entail assumptions of prior conditions such as that the subpopulations are at Hardy-Weinberg equilibria. Here we present a distance-based approach for inference of population structure using genetic data by defining population structure using network theory terminology and methods. A network is constructed from a pairwise genetic-similarity matrix of all sampled individuals. The community partition, a partition of a network to dense subgraphs, is equated with population structure, a partition of the population to genetically related groups. Community detection algorithms are used to partition the network into communities, interpreted as a partition of the population to subpopulations. The statistical significance of the structure can be estimated by using permutation tests to evaluate the significance of the partition's modularity, a network theory measure indicating the quality of community partitions. In order to further characterize population structure, a new measure of the Strength of Association (SA) for an individual to its assigned community is presented. The Strength of Association Distribution (SAD) of the communities is analyzed to provide additional population structure characteristics, such as the relative amount of gene flow experienced by the different subpopulations and identification of hybrid individuals. Human genetic data and simulations are used to demonstrate the applicability of the analyses. The approach presented here provides a novel, computationally efficient, model-free method for inference of population structure which does not entail assumption of prior conditions. The method is implemented in the software NetStruct, available at https://github.com/GiliG/NetStruct.", u'Bacteria that are subjected to ribosome inhibiting antibiotic drugs show an interesting behavior: Although the drug slows down cell growth, it also paradoxically increases the cells concentration of ribosomes. We combine a prior nonlinear model of the energy-biomass balance in undrugged E. coli cells (Maitra and Dill, PNAS 2015) with Michaelis-Menten binding of drugs that inactivate ribosomes. Predictions are in good agreement with experiments on ribosomal concentrations and synthesis rates vs. drug concentrations and growth rates. The model indicates that added drug drives the cell to overproduce ribosomes keeping roughly constant the level of ribosomes producing ribosomal proteins, an important quantity for cell growth. The model also predicts that ribosomal production rates should increase, then decrease with added drug. This model gives insights into cellular driving forces and suggests new experiments.', u'The Oxford Nanopore MinION is a portable real time sequencing device which functions by sensing the change in current flow through a nanopore as DNA passes through it. These current values can be streamed in real time from individual nanopores as DNA molecules traverse them. Furthermore, the technology enables individual DNA molecules to be rejected on demand by reversing the voltage across specific channels. In theory, combining these features enables selection of individual DNA molecules for sequencing from a pool, an approach called "Read Until". Here we apply dynamic time warping to match short query current traces to references, demonstrating selection of specific regions of small genomes, individual amplicons from a group of targets, or normalisation of amplicons in a set. This is the first demonstration of direct selection of specific DNA molecules in real time whilst sequencing on any device and enables many novel uses for the MinION.', u'A key experimental approach in neuroscience involves measuring neuronal activity in behaving animals with extracellular chronic recordings. Such chronic recordings were initially made with single electrodes and tetrodes, and are now increasingly performed with high-density, high-count silicon probes. A common way to achieve long-term chronic recording is to attach the probes to microdrives that progressively advance them into the brain and isolate them from mechanical forces. Here we report, however, that such microdrives are not strictly necessary. Indeed, we obtained high-quality recordings in both head-fixed and freely moving mice for several months following the implantation of immobile chronic probes. Probes implanted into the primary visual cortex yielded well-isolated single units whose spike waveform and orientation tuning were highly reproducible over time. Although electrode drift was not completely absent, at least 70% of neurons retained their waveform across days. Thus, immobile silicon probes represent a straightforward and reliable technique to obtain stable, long-term population recordings in mice, and to follow the activity of populations of well-isolated neurons over multiple days.', u'For most research approaches, genome analyses are dependent on the existence of a high quality genome reference assembly. However, the local accuracy of an assembly remains difficult to assess and improve. The gEVAL browser allows the user to interrogate an assembly in any region of the genome by comparing it to different datasets and evaluating the concordance. These analyses include: a wide variety of sequence alignments, comparative analyses of multiple genome assemblies, and consistency with optical and other physical maps. gEVAL highlights allelic variations, regions of low complexity, abnormal coverage, and potential sequence and assembly errors, and offers strategies for improvement. While gEVAL focuses primarily on sequence integrity, it can also display arbitrary annotation including Ensembl or TrackHub sources. We provide gEVAL web sites for many human, mouse, zebrafish and chicken assemblies to support the Genome Reference Consortium, and gEVAL is also downloadable to enable its use for any organism and assembly.', u'Our sleep timing preference, or chronotype, is a manifestation of our internal biological clock. Variation in chronotype has been linked to sleep disorders, cognitive and physical performance, and chronic disease. Here, we perform a genome-wide association study of self-reported chronotype within the UKBiobank cohort (n=100,420). We identify 12 new genetic loci that implicate known components of the circadian clock machinery and point to previously unstudied genetic variants and candidate genes that might modulate core circadian rhythms or light-sensing pathways. Pathway analyses highlight central nervous and ocular systems and fear-response related processes. Genetic correlation analysis suggests chronotype shares underlying genetic pathways with schizophrenia, educational attainment and possibly BMI. Further, Mendelian randomization suggests that evening chronotype relates to higher educational attainment. These results not only expand our knowledge of the circadian system in humans, but also expose the influence of circadian characteristics over human health and life-history variables such as educational attainment.', u'A census is typically carried out for people at a national level; however, microbial ecologists have implemented a molecular census of bacteria and archaea by sequencing their 16S rRNA genes. We assessed how well the microbial census of full-length 16S rRNA gene sequences is proceeding in the context of recent advances in high throughput sequencing technologies. Among the 1,411,234 and 53,546 full-length bacterial and archaeal sequences sequences, 94.5% and 95.1% of the bacterial and archeaeal sequences, respectively, belonged to operational taxonomic units (OTUs) that have been observed more than once. Although these metrics suggest that the census is approaching completion, 29.2% of the bacterial and 38.5% of the archaeal OTUs have been observed more than once. Thus, there is still considerable microbial diversity to be explored. Unfortunately, the rate of new full-length sequences has been declining and new sequences are primarily being deposited by a small number of studies. Furthermore, sequences from soil and aquatic environments, which are known to be rich in bacterial diversity, only represent 7.8 and 16.5% of the census while sequences associated with zoonotic environments represent 55.0% of the census. Continued use of traditional approaches and new technologies such as single cell genomics and short read assembly are likely to improve our ability to sample rare OTUs if it is possible to overcome this sampling bias. The success of ongoing efforts to use short read sequencing to characterize microbial communities requires that researchers strive to expand the depth and breadth of the microbial census.', u'To detect and avoid illegal logging of valuable tree species, identification methods for the origin of timber are necessary. We used next-generation sequencing to identify chloroplast genome regions that differentiate the origin of white oaks from the three continents; Asia, Europe, and North America. By using the chloroplast genome of Asian Q. mongolica as a reference, we identified 861 variant sites (672 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs); 189 insertion/deletion (indel) polymorphism) from representative species of three continents (Q. mongolica from Asia; Q. petraea and Q. robur from Europe; Q. alba from North America), and we identified additional chloroplast polymorphisms in pools of 20 individuals each from Q. mongolica (789 variant sites) and Q. robur (346 variant sites). Genome sequences were screened for insertion/deletion (indel) polymorphisms to develop markers that identify continental origin of oak species, and that can be easily evaluated using a variety of detection methods. We identified five indel and one SNP that reliably identify continent-of-origin, based on evaluations of up to 1078 individuals representing 13 white oak species and three continents. Due to the size of length polymorphisms revealed, this marker set can be visualized using capillary electrophoresis or high resolution gel (acrylamide or agarose) electrophoresis. With these markers, we provide the wood trading market with an instrument to comply with the U.S. and European laws that require timber companies to avoid the trade of illegally harvested timber.', u'Cross-validating new methods for recording neural activity is necessary to accurately interpret and compare the signals they measure. Here we describe a procedure for precisely aligning two probes for in vivo paired-recordings such that the spiking activity of a single neuron is monitored with both a dense extracellular silicon polytrode and a juxtacellular micro-pipette. Our new method allows for efficient, reliable, and automated guidance of both probes to the same neural structure with micron resolution. We also describe a new dataset of paired-recordings, which is available online. We propose that our novel targeting system, and ever expanding cross-validation dataset, will be vital to the development of new algorithms for automatically detecting/sorting single-units, characterizing new electrode materials/designs, and resolving nagging questions regarding the origin and nature of extracellular neural signals.', u'Gene duplication is a fundamental process in genome evolution. However, most young duplicates are degraded into pseudogenes by loss-of-function mutations, and the factors that allow some duplicate pairs to survive long-term remain controversial. One class of models to explain duplicate retention invokes sub- or neofunctionalization, especially through evolution of gene expression, while other models focus on sharing of gene dosage. While studies of whole genome duplications tend to support dosage sharing, the primary mechanisms in mammals-where duplications are small-scale and thus disrupt dosage balance-are unclear. Using RNA-seq data from 46 human and 26 mouse tissues we find that subfunctionalization of expression evolves slowly, and is rare among duplicates that arose within the placental mammals. A major impediment to subfunctionalization is that tandem duplicates tend to be co-regulated by shared genomic elements, in contrast to the standard assumption of modularity of gene expression. Instead, consistent with the dosage-sharing hypothesis, most young duplicates are down-regulated to match expression of outgroup singleton genes. Our data suggest that dosage sharing of expression is a key factor in the initial survival of mammalian duplicates, followed by slower functional adaptation enabling long-term preservation.', u'The accurate prediction of the impact of an amino acid substitution on the thermal stability of a protein is a central issue in protein science, and is of key relevance for the rational optimization of various bioprocesses that use enzymes in unusual conditions.\nHere we present one of the first  computational tools to predict the change in melting temperature \u0394Tm upon point mutations, given the protein structure and, when available, the melting temperature Tm of the wild-type protein. The key ingredients of our model structure are standard and temperature-dependent statistical potentials, which are combined with the help of an artificial neural network.\nThe model structure was chosen on the basis of a detailed thermodynamic analysis of the system. The parameters of the model were identified on a set of more than 1,600 mutations with experimentally measured \u0394Tm. \nThe performance of our method was tested using a strict 5-fold cross-validation procedure, and was found to be significantly superior to that of competing methods.  We obtained a root mean square deviation between  predicted and  experimental \u0394Tm values of 4.2\xb0C that reduces to 2.9\xb0C when ten percent outliers are removed. A webserver-based tool is freely available for non-commercial use at soft.dezyme.com.', u'Recent molecular dynamics (MD) simulations of the catalytic domain of the c-Src kinase revealed intermediate conformations with a potentially druggable allosteric pocket adjacent to the C-helix, bound by 8-anilino-1-naphthalene sulfonate.  Towards confirming the existence of this pocket, we have developed a novel lead enrichment protocol using new target and lead enrichment software to identify sixteen allosteric lead ligands of the c-Src kinase.  First, Markov State Models analysis was used to identify the most statistically significant c-Src target conformations from all MD-simulated conformations.  The most statistically relevant candidate MSM targets were then prioritized by assessing how well each reproduced binding poses of ligands specific to the ATP-competitive and allosteric pockets.  The top-performing MSM targets, identified by receiver-operating curve analysis, were then used to screen the ZINC library of 13 million \u2033clean, drug-like ligands\u2033, all of which prioritized based on their empirical scoring function, binding pose consistency across MSM targets, and strong hydrogen bonding and hydrophobic interactions with Src residues.  The FragFEATURE knowledgebase of fragment-protein pocket interactions was then used to identify fragments specific to the ATP-competitive and allosteric pockets.  This information was used to identify seven Type II and nine Type III lead ligands with binding poses supported by fragment predictions.  Of these, Type II lead ligands, ZINC13037947 and ZINC09672647, and Type III lead ligands, ZINC12530852 and ZINC30012975, exhibited the most favorable fragment profiles and are recommended for further experimental testing for the existence of the allosteric pocket in Src.', u'MHC-DRB1 exon2 was amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) from 126 healthy and 67 Brucellosis-infected Chinese Merino sheep. PCR products were analyzed using the SSCP technique, and then cloned to allow sequencing of the different alleles. For each SNP, allelic and genotypic frequencies were compared between case and control samples, in addition the association with Brucellosis susceptibility was determined. Haplotypes and their frequencies were established and analyzed by SHEsis online software. There were forty-one single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the 270 bp DNA sequence. The distribution of C>T alleles at locus 109 was significantly different between case and control samples. The linkage disequilibrium (LD) analysis showed that there were nine LD blocks in MHC-DRB1 exon2 and strong LD between SNPs existed in every Block. Haplotype analysis identified nine haplotypes with strong LD, but only Hap8 and Hap9 in case-control groups were significantly different (P<0.05); neither haplotype contained the C>T allele at locus 109. In conclusion, genetic variants of MHC-DRB1 gene exon2 demonstrated associations with Brucellosis susceptibility, indicating that further research is warranted.', u'Nitric oxide performs a wide variety of versatile functions in the immune system. But its precise role in the pathogenesis of acute inflammation and sepsis is still controversial. In the present study, we demonstrate a novel mutation in nitric oxide synthase interacting protein (NOSIP) and its association with mortality in sepsis. We also show direct physical interaction of NOSIP with inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), and demonstrate that differences in expression of NOSIP could influence differential induction of nitric oxide by monocytes/macrophages among species. Observations made in mice deficient in iNOS suggest that protective mechanism of nitric oxide in LPS induced inflammation is probably mediated by inhibiton of IL-1\u03b2; synthesis. Differential nitric oxide production between mice and humans is also reflected upon IL-1\u03b2; production between the species, where a clear inverse relationship emerges between nitric oxide and IL-1\u03b2;. Thus, our study reveals NOSIP as an important regulator of inflammation by virtue of its ability to influence nitric oxide mediated inhibition of IL-1\u03b2; synthesis and has opened up new avenues for therapeutic strategies against sepsis.', u'Disrupted circadian rhythms and reduced sleep duration are associated with several human diseases, particularly obesity and type 2 diabetes, but little is known about the genetic factors influencing these heritable traits. We performed genome-wide association studies of self-reported chronotype (morning/evening person) and self-reported sleep duration in 128,266 White British individuals from the UK Biobank study. Sixteen variants were associated with chronotype (P<5x10-8), including variants near the known circadian rhythm genes RGS16 (1.21 odds of morningness [95%CI 1.15, 1.27], P=3x10-12) and PER2 (1.09 odds of morningness [95%CI 1.06, 1.12], P=4x10-10). The PER2 signal has previously been associated with iris function. We sought replication using self-reported data from 89,823 23andMe participants; thirteen of the chronotype signals remained significant at P<5x10-8 on meta-analysis and eleven of these reached P<0.05 in the same direction in the 23andMe study. For sleep duration, we replicated one known signal in PAX8 (2.6 [95%CIs 1.9, 3.2] minutes per allele P=5.7x10-16) and identified and replicated two novel associations at VRK2 (2.0 [95% CI: 1.3, 2.7] minutes per allele, P=1.2x10-9; and 1.6 [95% CI: 1.1, 2.2] minutes per allele, P=7.6x10-9). Although we found genetic correlation between chronotype and BMI (rG=0.056, P=0.048); undersleeping and BMI (rG=0.147, P=1x10-5) and oversleeping and BMI (rG=0.097, P=0.039), Mendelian Randomisation analyses provided no consistent evidence of causal associations between BMI or type 2 diabetes and chronotype or sleep duration. Our study provides new insights into the biology of sleep and circadian rhythms in humans.', u'Primary sensory neurons form the interface between world and brain. Their function is well-understood during passive stimulation but, under natural behaving conditions, sense organs are under active, motor control. In an attempt to predict primary neuron firing under natural conditions of sensorimotor integration, we recorded from primary mechanosensory neuronsof awake, head-fixed mice as they explored a pole with their whiskers, and simultaneously measured both whisker motion and forces with high-speed videography. Using Generalised Linear Models, we found that primary neuron responses were poorly predicted by kinematics but well-predicted by rotational forces acting on the whisker: both during touch and free-air whisker motion. These results are discrepant with previous studies of passive stimulation, but could be reconciled by differences in the kinematics-force relationship between active and passive conditions. Thus, simple statistical models can predict rich neural activity elicited by natural, exploratory behaviour involving active movement of the sense organs.', u'Neural circuit mapping is generating datasets of 10,000s of labeled neurons. New computational tools are needed to search and organize these data. We present NBLAST, a sensitive and rapid algorithm, for measuring pairwise neuronal similarity. NBLAST considers both position and local geometry, decomposing neurons into short segments; matched segments are scored using a probabilistic scoring matrix defined by statistics of matches and non-matches. \nWe validated NBLAST on a published dataset of 16,129 single Drosophila neurons. NBLAST can distinguish neuronal types down to the finest level (single identified neurons) without a priori information. Cluster analysis of extensively studied neuronal classes identified new types and unreported topographical features. Fully automated clustering organized the validation dataset into 1052 clusters, many of which map onto previously described neuronal types. NBLAST supports additional query types including searching neurons against transgene expression patterns. Finally we show that NBLAST is effective with data from other invertebrates and zebrafish.', u"Extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase 5 (ERK5) has been associated with several pathological states including cancer, cardiac hypertrophy, and inflammation.  Unlike other members of the MAPK family, ERK5 contains a large C-terminal domain with transcriptional activation capability.  Pharmacological inhibition of ERK5 with XMD8-92, a first generation ERK5 inhibitor, is efficacious in various oncology and inflammation models.  Here we report the synthesis and characterization of potent and selective ERK5 inhibitors.  Most of these compounds displayed good efficacy in cellular inflammation assays; intriguingly, other compounds lacked efficacy despite potently inhibiting ERK5 in vivo.  The source of XMD8-92 and related compounds' efficacy is now demonstrated to be from direct inhibition of bromodomains (BRDs), conserved protein modules involved in recognition of acetyl-lysine residues during transcriptional processes.  We found no cellular effect from pure ERK5 inhibitors and conclude that ERK5 kinase activity is not required for the immune response.  The role of ERK5 in inflammation and oncology should be reinvestigated.", u"Phenotypic plasticity is known to evolve in perturbed habitats, where it alleviates the deleterious effects of selection. But the effects of plasticity on levels of genetic polymorphism, an important precursor to adaptation in temporally varying environments, are unclear. Here we develop a haploid, two-locus population-genetic model to describe the interplay between a plasticity modifier locus and a target locus subject to periodically varying selection.  We find that the interplay between these two loci can produce a 'genomic storage effect' that promotes balanced polymorphism over a large range of parameters, in the absence of all other conditions known to maintain genetic variation.  The genomic storage effect arises as recombination allows alleles at the two loci to escape more harmful genetic backgrounds and associate in haplotypes that persist until environmental conditions change.  Using both Monte Carlo simulations and analytical approximations we quantify the strength of the genomic storage effect across a range of selection pressures, recombination rates, plasticity modifier effect sizes, and environmental periods.", u'There has been much interest in studying evolutionary games in structured populations, often modelled as graphs.\nHowever, most analytical results so far have only been obtained for two-player or additive games, while the study of more complex multiplayer games has been usually tackled by computer simulations.\nHere we investigate evolutionary multiplayer games in regular graphs updated with a Moran process.\nUsing a combination of pair approximation and diffusion approximation, we obtain an analytical condition for cooperation to be favored by natural selection, given in terms of the payoffs of the game and a set of structure coefficients.\nWe show that, for a large class of cooperative dilemmas, graph-structured populations are stronger promoters of cooperation than populations lacking spatial structure.\nComputer simulations validate our results, showing that the complexity arising from many-person social interactions and spatial structure can be often captured by analytical methods.', u'Divergence-time estimation based on molecular phylogenies and the fossil record has provided insights into fundamental questions of evolutionary biology. In Bayesian node dating, phylogenies are commonly time calibrated through the specification of calibration densities on nodes representing clades with known fossil occurrences. Unfortunately, the optimal shape of these calibration densities is usually unknown and they are therefore often chosen arbitrarily, which directly impacts the reliability of the resulting age estimates. As possible solutions to this problem, two non-exclusive alternative approaches have recently been developed, the "fossilized birth-death" model and "total-evidence dating". While these approaches have been shown to perform well under certain conditions, they require including all (or a random subset) of the fossils of each clade in the analysis, rather than just relying on the oldest fossils of clades. In addition, both approaches assume that fossil records of different clades in the phylogeny are all the product of the same underlying fossil sampling rate, even though this rate has been shown to differ strongly between higher-level taxa. We here develop a flexible new approach to Bayesian node dating that combines advantages of traditional node dating and the fossilized birth-death model. In our new approach, calibration densities are defined on the basis of first fossil occurrences and sampling rate estimates that can be specified separately for all clades. We verify our approach with a large number of simulated datasets, and compare its performance to that of the fossilized birth death model. We find that our approach produces reliable age estimates that are robust to model violation, on par with the fossilized birth-death model. By applying our approach to a large dataset including sequence data from over 1000 species of teleost fishes as well as 147 carefully selected fossil constraints, we recover a timeline of teleost diversification that is incompatible with previously assumed vicariant divergences of freshwater fishes. Our results instead provide strong evidence for trans-oceanic dispersal of cichlids and other groups of teleost fishes.', u"Novel developmental programs often evolve via cooption of existing genetic networks. To understand this process, we explored cooption of the TAS3 tasiRNA pathway in the moss Physcomitrella patens. We find an ancestral function for this repeatedly redeployed pathway in the spatial regulation of a conserved set of Auxin Response Factors. In moss, this results in stochastic patterning of the filamentous protonemal tissue. Through modeling and experimentation, we demonstrate that tasiRNA regulation confers sensitivity and robustness onto the auxin response. Increased auxin sensitivity parallels increased developmental sensitivity to nitrogen, a key environmental signal. We propose that the properties lent to the auxin response network, along with the ability to stochastically modulate development in response to environmental cues, have contributed to the tasiRNA-ARF module's repeated cooption during evolution. The signaling properties of a genetic network, and not just its developmental output, are thus critical to understanding the evolution of multicellular forms.", u'X-ray diffraction has the potential to provide rich information about the structural dynamics of macromolecules. To realize this potential, both Bragg scattering, which is currently used to derive macromolecular structures, and diffuse scattering, which reports on correlations in charge density variations must be measured. Until now measurement of diffuse scattering from protein crystals has been scarce, due to the extra effort of collecting diffuse data. Here, we present three-dimensional measurements of diffuse intensity collected from crystals of the enzymes cyclophilin A and trypsin. The measurements were obtained from the same X-ray diffraction images as the Bragg data, using best practices for standard data collection. To model the underlying dynamics in a practical way that could be used during structure refinement, we tested Translation-Libration-Screw (TLS), Liquid-Like Motions (LLM), and coarse-grained Normal Modes (NM) models of protein motions. The LLM model provides a global picture of motions and were refined against the diffuse data, while the TLS and NM models provide more detailed and distinct descriptions of atom displacements, and only used information from the Bragg data. Whereas different TLS groupings yielded similar Bragg intensities, they yielded different diffuse intensities, none of which agreed well with the data. In contrast, both the LLM and NM models agreed substantially with the diffuse data. These results demonstrate a realistic path to increase the number of diffuse datasets available to the wider biosciences community and indicate that NM-based refinement can generate dynamics-inspired structural models that simultaneously agree with both Bragg and diffuse scattering.', u'We report the discovery of a neo-sex chromosome in Monarch butterfly, Danaus plexippus, and several of its close relatives. Z-linked scaffolds in the D. plexippus genome assembly were identified via sex-specific differences in Illumina sequencing coverage. Additionally, a majority of the D. plexippus genome assembly was assigned to chromosomes based on counts of 1-to-1 orthologs relative to the butterfly Melitaea cinxia (and two other Lepidopteran species), where genome scaffolds have been robustly mapped to linkage groups. Combining sequencing-coverage based Z-linkage with homology based chromosomal assignments provided strong evidence for a Z-autosome fusion in the Danaus lineage, involving the autosome homologous to chromosome 21 in M. cinxia. Coverage analysis also identified three scaffolds containing notable assembly errors resulting in chimeric Z-autosome fusions. The timing of this Z-autosome fusion event currently remains ambiguous due to incomplete sampling of karyotypes in the Danaini tribe of butterflies. The discovery of a neo-Z and the provisional assignment of chromosome linkage for >90% of D. plexippus genes lay the foundation for novel insights concerning sex chromosome evolution in this increasingly prominent female-heterogametic model species for functional and evolutionary genomics.', u'Analysis of coupled variables is a core concept of cell biological inference, with colocalization of two molecules as a proxy for protein interaction being an ubiquitous example. However, external effectors may influence the observed colocalization pattern independently from the local interaction of two proteins. Such global bias is often neglected when interpreting colocalization. Here, we describe DeBias, a computational method to quantify and decouple global bias from local interactions by modeling the observed colocalization between coupled variables as the cumulative contribution of a global and a local component. We demonstrate applications of DeBias in three areas of cell biology at different scales: Analysis of the (1) alignment of vimentin fibers and microtubules in the context of polarized cells; (2) alignment of cell velocity and traction stress during collective migration; and (3) specific recruitment of transmembrane receptors to clathrin-coated pits during endocytosis. The DeBias software package will be freely accessible online via a web-server at https://debias.biohpc.swmed.edu (pending UTSW information resources approval).', u'Costs and benefits of group living are a fundamental topic in behavioural ecology. Resource availability affects individuals\' breeding prospects alone and in groups, as well as how reproduction is distributed within groups ("reproductive skew"). Here, we provide correlational evidence in facultatively social thrips that breeding resources are associated with (1) whether solitary or social living is favoured, and (2) the degree of ovarian skew.\n \nDunatothrips aneurae (Thysanoptera, Phlaeothripidae) cooperatively build silk "domiciles" on Australian acacias, feeding exclusively from internal phyllode surfaces. Per capita productivity scaled differently with group size depending on domicile volume - females in small domiciles did better alone than in groups, whereas in large domiciles single and group-nesting females did equally well. Ovarian dissections revealed that in small domiciles some females were nonreproductive, indicating ovarian (i.e. reproductive) skew. Skew increased as domicile size decreased and group size increased. Breeders had smaller oocyte volume in smaller domiciles, especially those containing nonreproductives.\n \nThese findings suggest group formation and reproductive skew in D. aneurae may be influenced by reproductive competition for breeding resources. Nonreproductive females in small domiciles may be reproductively suppressed, subfertile, or waiting to reproduce. We speculate they may avoid eviction by contributing as "helpers" to domicile maintenance.', u'The cytomatrix at the active zone (CAZ) is a macromolecular complex that facilitates the supply of release-ready synaptic vesicles to support neurotransmitter release at synapses. To reveal the dynamics of this supply process in living synapses, we used super-resolution imaging to track single vesicles at voltage-clamped presynaptic terminals of retinal bipolar neurons, whose CAZ contains a specialized structure--the synaptic ribbon--that supports both fast, transient and slow, sustained modes of transmission. We find that the synaptic ribbon serves a dual function as a conduit for diffusion of synaptic vesicles and a platform for vesicles to fuse distal to the plasma membrane itself, via compound fusion. The combination of these functions allows the ribbon-type CAZ to achieve the continuous transmitter release required by synapses of neurons that carry tonic, graded visual signals in the retina.', u'Auxin is an essential regulator of virtually all aspects of plant growth and development and components of the auxin signaling pathway are conserved among land plants. Yet, a remarkable degree of natural variation in physiological and transcriptional auxin responses has been described among Arabidopsis thaliana accessions. Such variations might be caused by divergence in promoter or coding sequences of signaling and/or response genes that ultimately result in altered protein levels or functions. As intra-species comparisons offer only limited sequence variation, we here combined physiological, transcriptomic and genomic information to inspect the variation of auxin responses between A. thaliana and A. lyrata. This approach allowed the identification of genes with conserved auxin responses in both species and provided novel genes with potential relevance for auxin biology. Furthermore, gene expression and promoter sequence divergence were exploited to assess putative sources of variation. De novo motif discovery identified variants of known as well as novel promoter elements with potential relevance for transcriptional auxin responses. Furthermore, expression of AUXIN/INDOLE-3-ACETIC ACID (AUX/IAA) signaling genes was highly diverse between A. thaliana and A. lyrata. Network analysis revealed positive and negative correlations of inter-species differences in the expression of AUX/IAA gene clusters and classic auxin-related genes. We conclude that variation in general transcriptional and physiological auxin responses may originate substantially from functional or transcriptional variations in the TRANSPORT INHIBITOR RESPONSE 1/AUXIN SIGNALING F-BOX, AUX/IAA and AUXIN RESPONSE FACTOR signaling network. In that respect, AUX/IAA gene expression divergence potentially reflect differences in the manner in which different species transduce identical auxin signals into gene expression responses.', u"Variation in human lifespan is 20 to 30% heritable but few genetic variants have been identified. We undertook a Genome Wide Association Study (GWAS) using age at death of parents of middle-aged UK Biobank participants of European decent (n=75,244 with father's and/or mother's data). Genetic risk scores for 19 phenotypes (n=777 proven variants) were also tested.\nGenotyped variants (n=845,997) explained 10.2% (SD=1.3%) of combined parental longevity. In GWAS, a locus in the nicotine receptor CHRNA3 - previously associated with increased smoking and lung cancer - was associated with paternal age at death, with each protective allele (rs1051730[G]) being associated with 0.03 years later age at father's death (p=3x10-8). Offspring of longer lived parents had more protective alleles (lower genetic risk scores) for coronary artery disease, systolic blood pressure, body mass index, cholesterol and triglyceride levels, type-1 diabetes, inflammatory bowel disease and Alzheimer's disease. In candidate gene analyses, variants in the TOMM40/APOE locus were associated with longevity (including rs429358, p=3x10-5), but FOXO variants were not associated. \nThese results support a multiple protective factors model for achieving longer lifespans in humans, with a prominent role for cardiovascular-related pathways. Several of these genetically influenced risks, including blood pressure and tobacco exposure, are potentially modifiable.", u'We present an open-source software platform that transforms the emotions expressed by speech signals using audio effects like pitch shifting, inflection, vibrato, and filtering. The emotional transformations can be applied to any audio file, but can also run in real-time (with less than 20-millisecond latency), using live input from a microphone. We anticipate that this tool will be useful for the study of emotions in psychology and neuroscience, because it enables a high level of control over the acoustical and emotional content of experimental stimuli in a variety of laboratory situations, including real-time social situations. We present here results of a series of validation experiments showing that transformed emotions are recognized at above-chance levels in the French, English, Swedish and Japanese languages, with a naturalness comparable to natural speech. Then, we provide a list of twenty-five experimental ideas applying this new tool to important topics in the behavioral sciences.', u'Background\nInsertions and deletions (indels) account for more nucleotide differences between two related DNA sequences than substitutions do, and thus it is imperative to develop a stochastic evolutionary model that enables us to reliably calculate the probability of the sequence evolution through indel processes. Recently, such probabilistic models are mostly based on either hidden Markov models (HMMs) or transducer theories, both of which give the indel component of the probability of a given sequence alignment as a product of either probabilities of column-to-column transitions or block-wise contributions along the alignment. However, it is not a priori clear how these models are related with any genuine stochastic evolutionary model, which describes the stochastic evolution of an entire sequence along the time-axis. Moreover, none of these models can fully accommodate biologically realistic features, such as overlapping indels, power-law indel-length distributions, and indel rate variation across regions. \nResults\nHere, we theoretically tackle the ab initio calculation of the probability of a given sequence alignment under a genuine evolutionary model, more specifically, a general continuous-time Markov model of the evolution of an entire sequence via insertions and deletions. Our model allows general indel rate parameters including length distributions but does not impose any unrealistic restrictions on indels. Using techniques of the perturbation theory in physics, we expand the probability into a series over different numbers of indels. Our derivation of this perturbation expansion elegantly bridges the gap between Gillespie\u2032s (1977) intuitive derivation of his own stochastic simulation method, which is now widely used in evolutionary simulators, and Feller\u2032s (1940) mathematically rigorous theorems that underpin Gillespie\u2032s method. We find a sufficient and nearly necessary set of conditions under which the probability can be expressed as the product of an overall factor and the contributions from regions separated by gapless columns of the alignment. The indel models satisfying these conditions include those with some kind of rate variation across regions, as well as space-homogeneous models.  We also prove that, though with a caveat, pairwise probabilities calculated by the method of Mikl\xf3s et al. (2004) are equivalent to those calculated by our ab initio formulation, at least under a space-homogenous model.\nConclusions\nOur ab initio perturbative formulation provides a firm theoretical ground that other indel models can rest on.\n\n[This paper and three other papers (Ezawa, Graur and Landan 2015a,b,c) describe a series of our efforts to develop, apply, and extend the ab initio perturbative formulation of a general continuous-time Markov model of indels.]', u'Local non-linearities in dendrites render neuronal output dependent on the spatial distribution of synapses. Previous models predicted that a neuron is more likely to fire when synaptic activity is clustered in space, and some experimental studies have observed synapses activating in clusters. Other studies, however, have revealed that synapses can also uniformly activate across dendrites without apparent spatial bias. In order to reconcile these two sets of observations, we develop a multi-compartment model that: (i) shows how clustered synapses can form and distribute throughout available compartments, and (ii) responds, subsequent to learning, most saliently to uniformly distributed synaptic activity. We measure co-activation probability to show that cluster formation and distribution depend on correlated activity within input ensembles that impinge on multiple compartments, each operating a local unsupervised, Hebbian learning rule. Clustered synapses evolve in response to long-term, learned input ensembles, heightening a neuron\'s sensitivity to scattered "novel" inputs. As a result of the proposed learning rule, clustered inputs correspond to familiar pre-learned stimuli, while scattered inputs depolarize the cell for novel, unlearned stimuli. Our model reconciles seemingly conflicting experimental evidence, and suggests how clustered and scattered synapses together could underlie single neuron discrimination between familiar and novel inputs.', u'A model which treats the denatured and the native conformers as being confined to harmonic Gibbs energy wells has been used to analyse the non-Arrhenius behaviour of spontaneously-folding fixed two-state systems. The results demonstrate that when pressure and solvent are constant: (i) a two-state system is physically defined only for a finite temperature range; (ii) irrespective of the primary sequence, the 3-dimensional structure of the native conformer, the residual structure in the denatured state, and the magnitude of the folding and unfolding rate constants, the equilibrium stability of a two-state system is a maximum when its denatured conformers bury the least amount of solvent accessible surface area (SASA) to reach the activated state; (iii) the Gibbs barriers to folding and unfolding are not always due to the incomplete compensation of the activation enthalpies and entropies; (iv) the difference in heat capacity between the reaction-states is due to both the size of the solvent-shell and the non-covalent interactions; (v) the position of the transition state ensemble along the reaction coordinate (RC) depends on the choice of the RC; and (vi) the atomic structure of the transiently populated reaction-states cannot be inferred from perturbation-induced changes in their energetics.', u'Sharing of experimental clinical research data usually happens between individuals or research groups rather than via public repositories, in part due to the need to protect research participant privacy. This approach to data sharing makes it difficult to connect journal articles with their underlying datasets and is often insufficient for ensuring access to data in the long term. Voluntary data sharing services such as the Yale Open Data Access (YODA) and Clinical Study Data Request (CSDR) projects have increased accessibility to clinical datasets for secondary uses while protecting patient privacy and the legitimacy of secondary analyses but these resources are generally disconnected from journal articles - where researchers typically search for reliable information to inform future research. New scholarly journal and article types dedicated to increasing accessibility of research data have emerged in recent years and, in general, journals are developing stronger links with data repositories. There is a need for increased collaboration between journals, data repositories, researchers, funders, and voluntary data sharing services to increase the visibility and reliability of clinical research. We propose changes to the format and peer-review process for journal articles to more robustly link them to data that are only available on request. We also propose additional features for data repositories to better accommodate non-public clinical datasets, including Data Use Agreements (DUAs).', u'A model which treats the denatured and native conformers of spontaneously-folding fixed two-state systems as being confined to harmonic Gibbs energy-wells has been developed. Within the assumptions of this model the Gibbs energy functions of the denatured (DSE) and the native state (NSE) ensembles are described by parabolas, with the mean length of the reaction coordinate (RC) being given by the temperature-invariant denaturant m value. Consequently, the ensemble-averaged position of the transition state ensemble (TSE) along the RC, and the ensemble-averaged Gibbs energy of the TSE are determined by the intersection of the DSE and the NSE-parabolas. The equations derived enable equilibrium stability and the rate constants to be rationalized in terms of the mean and the variance of the Gaussian distribution of the solvent accessible surface area of the conformers in the DSE and the NSE. The implications of this model for protein folding are discussed.', u'The mechanism by which chromatids and chromosomes are segregated during mitosis and meiosis is a major puzzle of biology and biophysics. Using polymer simulations of chromosome dynamics, we show that a single mechanism of loop extrusion by condensins can robustly compact, segregate and disentangle chromosomes, arriving at individualized chromatids with morphology observed in vivo. Our model resolves the paradox of topological simplification concomitant with chromosome "condensation", and explains how enzymes a few nanometers in size are able to control chromosome geometry and topology at micron length scales. We suggest that loop extrusion is a universal mechanism of genome folding that mediates functional interactions during interphase and compacts chromosomes during mitosis.', u'Genomic plasticity enables adaptation to changing environments, which is especially relevant for pathogens that engage in arms races with their hosts. In many pathogens, genes mediating aggressiveness cluster in highly variable, transposon-rich, physically distinct genomic compartments. However, understanding of the evolution of these compartments, and the role of transposons therein, remains limited. We now show that transposons are the major driving force for adaptive genome evolution in the fungal plant pathogen Verticillium dahliae. Highly variable genomic regions evolved by frequent segmental duplications mediated by erroneous homologous recombination, often utilizing transposons, leading to genetic material that is free to diverge. Intriguingly, the duplicated regions are enriched in active transposons that further contribute to local genome plasticity. Thus, we provide evidence for genome shaping by transposons, both in an active and passive manner, which impacts the evolution of pathogen aggressiveness.', u'We introduce a novel Empirical Bayes approach for large-scale hypothesis testing, including estimating False Discovery Rates (FDRs), and estimating effect sizes. Compared with existing approaches to FDR analysis, the method has two key differences. First, it assumes that the distribution of the actual (unobserved) effects being tested is unimodal, with a mode at 0. This "unimodal assumption" (UA), although natural in many contexts, is very different from assumptions usually made in FDR analyses, and yields more accurate inferences than existing methods provided that it holds. The UA also facilitates efficient and robust computation because estimating the unimodal distribution involves solving a simple convex optimization problem. Second, the method takes as its input two numbers for each test (an effect size estimate, and corresponding standard error), rather than the one number usually used (p value, or z score). When available, using two numbers instead of one helps account for variation in measurement precision across tests. It also facilitates the estimation of actual effect sizes, and our approach provides interval estimates (credible regions) for each effect in addition to measures of significance. To provide a bridge between interval estimates and significance measures we introduce the term "local false sign rate" to refer to the probability of getting the sign of an effect wrong, and argue that it is a superior measure of significance than the local FDR because it is both more generally applicable, and can be more robustly estimated. Our methods are implemented in an R package ashr available from http://github.com/stephens999/ashr.', u'A hybrid multiscale mathematical model of tumor growth is used to investigate how tumoral and microenvironmental heterogeneity affect treatment outcomes.  A key component of this model is normal and tumor metabolism and its interaction with microenvironmental factors.  In early stages of growth, tumors are stratified, with the most aggressive cells developing within the interior of the tumor. Simulations suggest that in some cases chemotherapy may increase the metabolic aggressiveness of a tumor due to drug-mediated selection.', u'High-throughput sequencing (HTS) of metagenomes is proving essential in understanding the environment and diseases. State-of-the-art methods for discovering the species and their abundances in an HTS metagenomic sample are based on genome-specific markers, which can lead to skewed results, especially at species level. \n\nWe present MetaFlow, the first method based on coverage analysis across entire genomes that also scales to HTS samples. We formulated this problem as an NP-hard matching problem in a bipartite graph, which we solved in practice by min-cost flows. On synthetic data sets of varying complexity and similarity, MetaFlow is more precise and sensitive than popular tools such as MetaPhlAn, mOTU, GSMer and BLAST, and its abundance estimations at species level are two to four times better in terms of L1-norm. On a real human stool data set, MetaFlow identifies B.uniformis as most predominant, in line with previous human gut studies, whereas marker-based methods report it as rare.\n\nMetaFlow is freely available at http://cs.helsinki.fi/gsa/metaflow', u'The cell re-entry assay is widely used to evaluate pathogen effector protein uptake into plant cells. The assay is based on the premise that effector proteins secreted out of a leaf cell would translocate back into the cytosol of the same cell via a yet unknown host-derived uptake mechanism. Here, we critically assess this assay by expressing domains of the effector proteins AvrM-A of Melampsora lini and AVR3a of Phytophthora infestans fused to a signal peptide and fluorescent proteins in Nicotiana benthamiana. We found that the secreted fusion proteins do not re-enter plant cells from the apoplast and that the assay is prone to false-positives. We therefore emit a cautionary note on the use of the cell re-entry assay for protein trafficking studies.', u'Water availability is an important driver of the geographic distribution of many plant species, although its importance relative to other climatic variables varies across climate regimes and species. A common indirect measure of water-use efficiency (WUE) is the ratio of carbon isotopes (\u03b413C) fixed during photosynthesis, especially when analyzed in conjunction with a measure of leaf-level resource utilization (\u03b415N). Here, we test two hypotheses about the genetic architecture of WUE for foxtail pine (Pinus balfouriana Grev. & Balf.) using a novel mixture of double digest restriction site associated DNA sequencing, species distribution modeling, and quantitative genetics. First, we test the hypothesis that water availability is an important determinant of the geographical range of foxtail pine. Second, we test the hypothesis that variation in \u03b413C and \u03b415N is genetically based, differentiated between regional populations, and has genetic architectures that include loci of large effect. We show that precipitation-related variables structured the geographical range of foxtail pine, climate-based niches differed between regional populations, and \u03b413C and \u03b415N were heritable with moderate signals of differentiation between regional populations. A set of large-effect QTLs (n = 11 for \u03b413C; n = 10 for \u03b415N) underlying \u03b413C and \u03b415N variation, with little to no evidence of pleiotropy, was discovered using multiple-marker, half-sibling regression models. Our results represent a first approximation to the genetic architecture of these phenotypic traits, including documentation of several patterns consistent with \u03b413C being a fitness-related trait affected by natural selection.', u'We aligned 21,504 publicly available Illumina-sequenced human RNA-seq samples from the Sequence Read Archive (SRA) to the human genome and compared detected exon-exon junctions with junctions in several recent gene annotations. 56,865 junctions (18.6%) found in at least 1,000 samples were not annotated, and their expression associated with tissue type. Newer samples contributed few novel well-supported junctions, with 96.1% of junctions detected in at least 20 reads across samples present in samples before 2013. Junction data is compiled into a resource called intropolis available at http://intropolis.rail.bio. We discuss an application of this resource to cancer involving a recently validated isoform of the ALK gene.', u'Background\nFour gene expression-based subtypes of high-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSC), variably associated with differential survival, have been previously described. However, in these studies, clustering heuristics were consistent with only three subtypes and reproducibility of the subtypes across populations and assay platforms has not been formally assessed. Therefore, we systematically determined the concordance of transcriptomic HGSC subtypes across populations.\nMethods\nWe used a unified bioinformatics pipeline to independently cluster (k = 3 and k = 4) five mRNA expression datasets with >130 tumors using k-means and non-negative matrix factorization (NMF) without removing hard-to-classify samples. Within each population, we summarized differential expression patterns for each cluster as moderated t statistic vectors using Significance Analysis of Microarrays. We calculated Pearsons correlations of these vectors to determine similarities and differences in expression patterns between clusters. We identified sets of clusters that were most correlated across populations to define syn-clusters (SC), and we associated SC expression patterns with biological pathways using geneset overrepresentation analyses. \nResults\nAcross populations, for k = 3, moderated t score correlations for clusters 1, 2 and 3 ranged between 0.77-0.85, 0.80-0.90, and 0.65-0.77, respectively. For k = 4, correlations for clusters 1-4 were 0.77-0.85, 0.83-0.89, 0.51-0.76, and 0.61-0.75, respectively. Within populations, comparing analogous clusters (k = 3 versus k = 4), correlations were high for clusters 1 and 2 (0.91-1.00), but lower for cluster 3 (0.22-0.80). Results were similar using NMF. SC1 corresponds to mesenchymal-like, SC2 to proliferative-like, SC3 to immunoreactive-like, and SC4 to differentiated-like subtypes reported previously.\nConclusions \nWhile previous single-population studies reported four HGSC subtypes, our cross-population comparison finds strong evidence for only two subtypes and our re-analysis of previous data suggests that results favoring four subtypes may have been driven, at least in part, by the inclusion of samples with low malignant potential. Because the mesenchymal-like and proliferative-like subtypes are highly consistent across populations, they likely reflect intrinsic biological subtypes and are strong candidates for targeted therapies. The other two previously described subtypes (immunoreactive-like and differentiated-like) are considerably less consistent and may represent either a single subtype or signal that is not amenable to clustering.', u'Rapidly decreasing genome sequencing costs have led to a proportionate increase in the number of samples used in prokaryotic population studies.   Extracting single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) from a large whole genome alignment is now a routine task, but existing tools have failed to scale efficiently with the increased size of studies. These tools are slow, memory inefficient and are installed through non-standard procedures.  We present SNP-sites which can rapidly extract SNPs from a multi-FASTA alignment using modest resources and can output results in multiple formats for downstream analysis. SNPs can be extracted from a 8.3 GB alignment file (1,842 taxa, 22,618 sites) in 267 seconds using 59 MB of RAM and 1 CPU core, making it feasible to run on modest computers. It is easy to install through the Debian and Homebrew package managers, and has been successfully tested on more than 20 operating systems. SNP-sites is implemented in C and is available under the open source license GNU GPL version 3.', u'Cortical mapping techniques using fMRI have been instrumental in identifying the boundaries of topological (neighbor-preserving) maps in early sensory areas. The presence of topological maps beyond early sensory areas raises the possibility that they might play a significant role in other cognitive systems, and that topological mapping might help to delineate areas involved in higher cognitive processes. In this study, we combine surface based visual, auditory, and somatomotor mapping methods with a naturalistic reading comprehension task in the same group of subjects to provide a qualitative and quantitative assessment of the cortical overlap between sensory-motor maps in all major sensory modalities, and reading processing regions. Our results suggest that cortical activation during naturalistic reading comprehension overlaps more extensively with topological sensory-motor maps than has been heretofore appreciated. Reading activation in regions adjacent to occipital lobe and inferior parietal lobe completely overlaps visual maps, whereas most of frontal activation for reading in dorsolateral and ventral prefrontal cortex overlaps both visual and auditory maps. Even classical language regions in superior temporal cortex are partially overlapped by topological visual and auditory maps. By contrast, the main overlap with somatomotor maps is restricted to dorsolateral frontal cortex.', u'Oncology drugs are only effective in a small proportion of cancer patients. To make things worse, our current ability to identify these responsive patients before treatment is still very limited. Thus, there is a pressing need to discover response markers for marketed and research oncology drugs in order to improve patient survival, reduce healthcare costs and enhance success rates in clinical trials. Screening these drugs against a large panel of cancer cell lines has been recently employed to discover new genomic markers of in vitro drug response, which can now be further evaluated on more accurate tumour models. However, while the identification of discriminative markers among thousands of candidate drug-gene associations in the data is error-prone, an appraisal of the effectiveness of such detection task is currently lacking. \nHere we present a new non-parametric method to measuring the discriminative power of a drug-gene association. This is enabled by the identification of an auxiliary threshold posing this task as a binary classification problem. Unlike parametric statistical tests, the adopted non-parametric test has the advantage of not making strong assumptions about the data distorting the identification of genomic markers. Thus, the application of this methodology has led to the identification of 232 new genomic markers distributed across 81% of the analysed drugs, including 8 drugs without previously known markers, which were missed by the MANOVA test initially applied to analyse data from the Genomics of Drug Sensitivity in Cancer consortium.', u'Despite progress in developing small molecule inhibitors, a quantitative understanding of drug action in the physiological context of cells is lacking.  Here, we apply single-cell analysis of signal transduction and proliferation to probe cellular responses to small molecule inhibitors.  We use the model of cellular activation of T lymphocytes responding to cytokines and antigens.  We uncover two distinct modes of drug action, in terms of signaling inhibition: digital inhibition (e.g. when the fraction of activated cells diminishes upon drug treatment, but cells remaining active appear unperturbed), and analog inhibition (e.g. when the fraction of activated cells is unperturbed while their overall activation is diminished).  We introduce a computational model of the signaling cascade in order to account for such dichotomy. We test the predictions of our model in terms of the phenotypic variability of cellular responses under drug inhibition. Finally, we demonstrate that the digital/analog dichotomy of cellular response as revealed on short timescales with signal transduction, translates into similar dichotomy on long timescales.  Overall, our analysis of drug action at the single cell level illustrates the strength of quantitative approaches to translate the promise of in vitro pharmacology into functionally-relevant cellular settings.', u'Heart failure is one of the leading causes of mortality worldwide, but its underlying molecular mechanisms are poorly understood. To obtain a systems view of the molecular networks that underlie heart failure, we harvested 1352 samples from 313 healthy and failing hearts directly from transplant operating rooms and obtained left-ventricular whole-genome gene expression and genotype measurements. From these data, we built directed regulatory gene networks and gene communities using an approach that combines network and community inference in one framework. Differences in co-expression and global and local centrality parameters pinpointed changes in the molecular interaction network associated with heart failure, as well as its network-wise genetic determinants. Connectivity of one gene, PPP1R3A, previously unassociated with heart failure, changed significantly between healthy and diseased states. Perturbation of in vitro and in vivo systems via time series transcriptome sequencing and murine cardiovascular phenotyping revealed that ablation of PPP1R3A alters disease progression.', u'Conventional kinesin walks by a hand-over-hand mechanism on the microtubule (MT) by taking \u223c 8nm discrete steps, and consumes one ATP molecule per step. The time needed to complete a single step is on the order of twenty microseconds. We show, using simulations of a coarse-grained model of the complex containing the two motor heads, the MT, and the coiled coil that in order to obtain quantitative agreement with experiments for  the stepping kinetics hydrodynamic interactions (HI) have to be included. In simulations without hydrodynamic interactions spanning nearly twenty microseconds  not a single step was completed in hundred trajectories. In sharp contrast, nearly 14% of the steps reached the target binding site within 6 microseconds when HI were included. Somewhat surprisingly, there are qualitative differences in the diffusion pathways in simulations with and without HI. The extent of movement of the trailing head of kinesin on the MT during the diffusion stage of stepping is considerably greater in simulations with HI than in those without HI. Our results suggest that inclusion of HI is crucial in the accurate description of motility of other motors as well.', u'Vesicle-like structures containing several to numerous concentric membranes, called multilamellar bodies (MLBs), are present both in animal and plant cells. The origin of MLBs in animal cells has been elucidated partially, while that of plant MLBs is unknown. MLBs in plant cells are present in the cytoplasm, at the interface of cytoplasm and vacuole, and inside vacuoles. This suggests that they become transported from the cytoplasm to the vacuole. The function of plant MLBs thus seems transfer of cellular membranes to the vacuole. Although it is often impossible to discern whether they have a single or a double outer membrane, in some examples a double outer membrane is present. This might suggest autophagic/mitochondrial/plastidial origin. Membrane structures similar to those in MLBs have not been described, apparently, in mitochondria. By contrast, structures similar to MLBs are found in autophagous structures and in degenerating chloroplasts and other plastids. The data might suggest the hypothesis that plant MLBs derive from autophagous structures and/or from plastids.', u'The Allee effect is a theoretical model predicting low growth rates and the possible extinction of small populations. Historically, studies of the Allee effect have focused on demography. As a result, underlying processes other than the direct effect of population density on fitness components are not generally taken into account. There has been heated debate about the potential of genetic processes to drive small populations to extinction, but such processes clearly do have an impact on small populations over short time scales, and some may generate Allee effects. However, as opposed to the ecological Allee effect, which is underpinned by cooperative interactions between individuals, genetically driven Allee effects require a change in genetic structure to link the decline in population size with a decrease in fitness components. We therefore define the genetic Allee effect as a two-step process whereby a decrease in population size leads to a change in population genetic structure, and in turn, to a decrease in individual fitness. We describe potential underlying mechanisms, and review the evidence for this original type of component Allee effect, using published examples from both plants and animals. The possibility of considering demogenetic feedback in light of genetic Allee effects clarifies the analysis and interpretation of demographic and genetic processes, and the interplay between them, in small populations.', u'Urbanization significantly alters natural ecosystems, and its rate is only expected to increase globally as more humans move into urban centers.  Urbanized landscapes are often highly fragmented.  Isolated populations within these fragments may adapt in response to novel urban ecosystems, but few studies have found strong evidence of evolutionary responses in urban environments.  We used multiple genome scan and genotype-environment association (GEA) approaches to examine signatures of selection in transcriptomes from urban white-footed mice (Peromyscus leucopus) in New York City.  We scanned transcriptomes from 48 P. leucopus individuals from six environmentally heterogeneous locations (three urban and three rural) for evidence of rapid local adaption in isolated urban habitats.  We analyzed 154,770 SNPs and identified patterns of genetic differentiation between urban and rural sites and signatures of selection in a large subset of genes.  Neutral demographic processes can create allele frequency patterns that are indistinguishable from positive selection.  We accounted for this by simulating a neutral SNP dataset under the inferred demographic history for the sampled P. leucopus populations to serve as a null model when choosing outliers.  We annotated the resulting outlier genes and further validated them by associating allele frequency differences with environmental measures of urbanization, percent impervious surface and human population density.  The majority of candidate genes were involved in metabolic functions, especially dietary specialization.  A subset of these genes have well-established roles in metabolizing lipids and carbohydrates, including transport of cholesterol and desaturation of fatty acids.  Our results reveal clear genetic differentiation between rural and urban sites that likely resulted from rapid local adaptation in urbanizing habitats. The specific candidate loci that we identified suggest that populations of P. leucopus are using novel food resources in urban habitats or locally adapting through changes in their metabolism.  Our data support the idea that cities represent novel ecosystems with a unique set of selective pressures.', u'The evolutionary stability of quantitative traits depends on whether a population can resist invasion by any mutant. While uninvadability is well understood in well-mixed populations, it is much less so in subdivided populations when multiple traits evolve jointly. Here, we investigate whether a spatially subdivided population at a monomorphic equilibrium for multiple traits can withstand invasion by any mutant, or is subject to diversifying selection. Our model also explores the among traits correlations arising from diversifying selection and how they depend on relatedness due to limited dispersal. We find that selection favours a positive (negative) correlation between two traits, when the selective effects of one trait on relatedness is positively (negatively) correlated to the indirect fitness effects of the other trait. We study the evolution of traits for which this matters: dispersal that decreases relatedness, and helping that has positive indirect fitness effects. We find that when dispersal cost is low and the benefits of helping accelerate faster than its costs, selection leads to the coexistence of mobile defectors and sessile helpers. Otherwise, the population evolves to a monomorphic state with intermediate helping and dispersal. Overall, our results highlight the importance of population subdivision for evolutionary stability and correlations among traits.', u'We demonstrate the capabilities of \u03bcMagellan: a flexible, open source microscopy software for reproducible high throughput imaging of biological samples across heterogeneous scales of space and time. \u03bcMagellan provides a simple user interface for exploration and automated imaging of non-cuboidal regions. By utilizing the hardware abstraction layer of \u03bcManager, \u03bcMagellan provides a powerful and extensible platform for imaging heterogeneous biological samples on a wide range of existing microscopes.', u'Monitoring the efficacy of novel reservoir-reducing treatments for HIV is challenging. The limited ability to sample and quantify latent infection means that supervised antiretroviral therapy (ART) interruption studies are generally required. Here we introduce a set of mathematical\nand statistical modeling tools to aid in the design and interpretation of ART-interruption trials. We show how the likely size of the remaining reservoir can be updated in real-time as patients continue off treatment, by combining the output of laboratory assays with insights from models of reservoir dynamics and rebound. We design an optimal schedule for viral load sampling during interruption, whereby the frequency of follow-up can be decreased as patients continue off ART without rebound. While this scheme can minimize costs when the chance of rebound between visits is low, we find that the reservoir will be almost completely reseeded before rebound is detected unless sampling occurs at least every two weeks and the most sensitive viral load assays are used. We use simulated data to predict the clinical trial size needed to estimate treatment effects in the face of highly variable patient outcomes and imperfect reservoir assays. Our findings suggest that large numbers of patients - between 40 and 150 - will be necessary to reliably estimate the reservoir-reducing potential of a new therapy and to compare this across interventions. As an example, we apply these methods to the two "Boston patients", recipients of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplants who experienced large reductions in latent infection and underwent ART-interruption. We argue that the timing of viral rebound was not particularly surprising given the information available before treatment cessation. Additionally, we show how other clinical data can be used to estimate the relative contribution that remaining HIV+ cells in the recipient versus newly infected cells from the donor made to the residual reservoir that eventually caused rebound. Together, these tools will aid HIV researchers in the evaluating new potentially-curative strategies that target the latent reservoir.', u'Osteoarthritis (OA) is a degenerative joint disease with substantial global health economic burden and no curative therapy. Here we investigate genes and pathways underpinning disease progression, combining methylation typing, RNA sequencing and quantitative proteomics in chondrocytes from matched damaged and healthy articular cartilage samples from OA patients undergoing knee replacement surgery. Our data highlight 49 genes differentially regulated at multiple levels, identifying 19 novel genes with a potential role in OA progression. An integrated pathway analysis identifies established and emerging biological processes. We perform an in silico search for drugs predicted to target the differentially regulated factors and identify several established therapeutic compounds which now warrant further investigation in OA. Overall this work provides a first integrated view of the molecular landscape of human primary chondrocytes and offers insights into the mechanisms of cartilage degeneration. The results point to new therapeutic avenues, highlighting the translational potential of integrated functional genomics. All data from these experiments are freely available for access in the appropriate repositories.', u'Sexual dimorphism is predicted to be constrained by the underlying genetic architecture shared between the sexes and through ontogeny, but whole-transcriptome data for both sexes across genotypes and developmental stages are lacking. Within a quantitative genetic framework, we sequenced RNA from Drosophila melanogaster at different developmental stages to examine sex-biased gene expression and how selection acts upon it. We found evidence that gene expression is constrained by both univariate and multivariate shared genetic variation between genes, sexes and developmental stages, but may be resolved by differential splicing. These results provide a comprehensive picture of how conflict over sexual dimorphism varies through development and clarifies the conditions under which it is predicted to evolve.', u'Mechanical cell forces play determinant roles in cell growth and tissue development. Cell migration is a relevant context to explore single cell forces, since mechanotransduction and cell morphology are dynamically and biochemically co-regulated in order to modulate cell shape changes minute to minute. In this work we present the design of a hybrid microdevice made from a set of parallel PDMS microchannels in which oil emulsion droplets are introduced to be used as biocompatible and deformable cell forces transducers upon HL-60 human leukemia cell line migration. We show that the mechanical stress exerted by the cells can be measured from the analysis of the droplets deformations at the single cell level. Finally we show that acto-myosin contraction plays a role in the cell ability to cross obstacles in confinement conditions.', u'Although various software are available for gene prediction, none of the currently available gene-finders have a universal Hidden Markov Models (HMM) that can perform gene prediction for all organisms equally well in an automatic fashion. Here, we report an automated pipeline that performs gene prediction using self-trained HMM models and transcriptomic data. The program processes the genome and transcriptome sequences of a target species through GlimmerHMM, SNAP, and AUGUSTUS training pipeline that ends with the program MAKER2 combining the predictions from the three models in association with the transcriptomic evidence. The pipeline generates species-specific HMMs and is able to predict genes that are not biased to other model organisms. Our evaluation of the program revealed that it performed better than the use of the closest related HMM from a standalone program.', u'Background: Males are more likely to suffer from autism spectrum disorder (ASD) than females.  As to whether females with ASD have similar brain alterations remain an open question.  The current study aimed to examine sex-dependent as well as sex-independent alterations in resting-state functional connectivity in individuals with ASD compared with typically developing (TD) individuals. \nMethod: Resting-state functional MRI data were acquired from the Autism Brain Imaging Data Exchange (ABIDE).  Subjects between 6 to 20 years of age were included for analysis.  After matching the intelligence quotient between groups for each dataset, and removing subjects due to excessive head motion, the resulting effective sample contained 28 females with ASD, 49 TD females, 129 males with ASD, and 141 TD males, with a two (diagnosis) by two (sex) design.  Functional connectivity among 153 regions of interest (ROIs) comprising the whole brain was computed.  Two by two analysis of variance was used to identify connectivity that showed diagnosis by sex interaction or main effects of diagnosis.  \nResults: The main effects of diagnosis were found mainly between visual cortex and other brain regions, indicating sex-independent connectivity alterations.  We also observed two connections whose connectivity showed diagnosis by sex interaction between the precuneus and medial cerebellum as well as the precunes and dorsal frontal cortex.  While males with ASD showed higher connectivity in these connections compared with TD males, females with ASD had lower connectivity than their counterparts.  \nConclusions: Both sex-dependent and sex-independent functional connectivity alterations are present in ASD.', u'Experiments (Clarke et al., Nat. Nanotech., 2009, 4, 265-270) have shown that DNA could be sequenced using a nanopore-based electrolytic cell in which an exonuclease enzyme in the cis chamber cleaves the leading base of a strand of DNA. The base is identified (with a reported accuracy that exceeds 99%) by the level of the current blockade it causes in the pore; a biological adapter inside slows down the base to lower the detection bandwidth required. This approach, which has been mathematically modeled, analyzed, and simulated (Reiner et al., J. Chem. Phys., 2012, 137, 214903; Brady and Reiner, ibid., 2015, 143, 074904), is error-prone because bases may be lost to diffusion or enter the pore out of order. Here a modified cell with three stacked nanopores (UNP, MNP, and DNP) and the enzyme attached to the trans side of UNP is proposed. Translocation of a base is simulated with the random walk of a dimensionless particle; the results show that bases translocate through MNP and DNP in sequence order without loss. If this holds in practice then with a suitably designed adapter and compatible enzyme turnover rates base calling accuracy would be limited only by the accuracy of base discrimination. Potential implementation issues are discussed.', u'Nanopore sequencing provides a rapid, cheap and portable real-time sequencing platform with the potential to revolutionize genomics. Several applications, including RNA-seq, haplotype sequencing and 16S sequencing, are however limited by its relatively high single read error rate (>10%). We present INC-Seq (Intramolecular-ligated Nanopore Consensus Sequencing) as a strategy for obtaining long and accurate nanopore reads starting with low input DNA. Applying INC-Seq for 16S rRNA based bacterial profiling generated full-length amplicon sequences with median accuracy >97%. INC-Seq reads enable accurate species-level classification, identification of species at 0.1% abundance and robust quantification of relative abundances, providing a cheap and effective approach for pathogen detection and microbiome profiling on the MinION system.', u'Biomedical literature represents one of the largest and fastest growing collections of\nunstructured biomedical knowledge. Finding critical information buried in the literature can be challenging. In order to extract information from freeflowing text, researchers need to: 1. identify the entities in the text (named entity recognition), 2. apply a standardized vocabulary to these entities (normalization), and 3. identify how entities in the text are related to one another\n(relationship extraction.) Researchers have primarily approached these information extraction tasks through manual expert curation, and computational methods. We have previously demonstrated that named entity recognition (NER) tasks can be crowdsourced to a group of nonexperts via the paid microtask platform, Amazon Mechanical Turk (AMT); and can\ndramatically reduce the cost and increase the throughput of biocuration efforts. However, given the size of the biomedical literature even information extraction via paid microtask platforms is not scalable. With our web-based\napplication Mark2Cure ( http://mark2cure.org ), we demonstrate that NER tasks can also be performed by volunteer citizen scientists with high accuracy. We apply metrics from the Zooniverse Matrices of Citizen Science Success and provide the results here to serve as a basis of comparison for other citizen science projects. Further, we discuss design considerations, issues, and the application of analytics for successfully moving a crowdsourcing workflow from a paid microtask platform to a citizen science platform. To our knowledge, this study is the first application of citizen science to a natural language processing task.', u'Ferox Trout are large, long-lived piscivorous Brown Trout (Salmo trutta). Due to their exceptionally large size, Ferox Trout are highly sought after by anglers while their life-history strategy, which includes delayed maturation, multiphasic growth and extended longevity, is of interest to ecological and evolutionary modelers. However, despite their recreational and theoretical importance, little is known about the typical abundance of Ferox Trout or their vulnerability to angling. To rectify this situation a 16 year mark-recapture study was conducted on Loch Rannoch, which at 19 km2 is one of the largest lakes in the United Kingdom. A hierarchical Bayesian Jolly-Seber analysis of the data indicates that in 2009 the population of Ferox Trout in Loch Rannoch was approximately 69 individuals. The results also indicate that a single, often unaccompanied, highly-experienced angler was able to catch roughly 8% of the available fish on an annual basis. It is recommended that anglers adopt a precautionary approach and release all trout with a fork length \u2265 400 mm caught by trolling in Loch Rannoch. There is an urgent need to assess the status of Ferox Trout in other lakes.', u'The genomics era has led to an increase in the dimensionality of the data collected to investigate biological questions. In this context, dimension-reduction techniques can\nbe used to summarize high-dimensional signals into low-dimensional ones, to further test for association with one or more covariates of interest. This paper revisits one such approach, previously known as Principal Component of Heritability and renamed here as Principal Component of Explained Variance (PCEV). As its name suggests, the PCEV seeks a linear combination of outcomes in an optimal manner, by maximising the proportion of variance explained by one or several covariates of interest. By construction, this method optimises power but limited by its computational complexity, it has unfortunately received little attention in the past. Here, we propose a general analytical PCEV framework that builds on the assets of the original method, i.e. conceptually simple and free of tuning parameters. Moreover, our framework extends the range of applications of the original procedure by providing a computationally simple strategy for high-dimensional outcomes, along with exact and asymptotic testing procedures that drastically reduce its computational cost. We investigate the merits of the PCEV using an extensive set of simulations. Furthermore, the use of the PCEV approach will be illustrated using three examples taken from the epigenetics and brain\nimaging areas.', u'Despite considerable efforts, known genetic associations only explain a small fraction of predicted heritability. Regional associations combine information from multiple contiguous genetic variants and can improve variance explained at established association loci. However, regional associations are not easily amenable to estimation using summary association statistics because of sensitivity to linkage disequilibrium (LD). We now propose a novel method to estimate phenotypic variance explained by regional associations using summary statistics while accounting for LD. Our method is asymptotically equivalent to multiple regression models when no interaction or haplotype effects are present. It has multiple applications, such as ranking of genetic regions according to variance explained or comparison of variance explained by to or more regions. Using height and BMI data from the Health Retirement Study (N=7,776), we show that most genetic variance lies in a small proportion of the genome and that previously identified linkage peaks have higher than expected regional variance.', u'Summary: Bisulfite sequencing is the gold standard method for analyzing methylomes. However, the effect of quality control in bisulfite sequencing has not been studied extensively. We developed a package ME-Plot to detect the errors in bisulfite sequencing mapping data and produce higher quality methylation calls by trimming low quality portions of the reads. Our simulation results on both randomly generated reads where methylation status is known and real world data indicate that ME-plot can detect errors in methylation mapping procedures and suggest post-processing steps to reduce the errors. ME-Plot requires SAM/BAM files for its analysis.\nAvailability: The python package is available at the following URL. https://github.com/joshuabhk/methylsuite', u'Small regulatory RNAs are pivotal regulators of gene expression and play important roles in many plant processes. Although our knowledge of their biogenesis and mode of action has significantly progressed, we comparatively still know little about their biological functions. In particular, knowledge about their spatiotemporal patterns of expression rely on either indirect detection by use of reporter constructs or labor-intensive direct detection by in situ hybridization on sectioned material. None of the current approaches allows for a systematic investigation of small RNAs expression patterns.Here, we present a method for the sensitive in situ detection of micro- and siRNAs in intact plant tissues that utilizes both double-labelled probes and a specific cross linker. We determined the expression patterns of several small RNAs in plant roots and embryos.', u'We use genome-wide data from the third generation respondents of the Framingham Heart Study to estimate heritability in body mass index using different quantities of the measured genotype. Heritability decreases rapidly when SNPs implicated by a genome-wide association study are removed but shows essentially no decline when SNPs implicated by a gene-environment interaction in a second genome-wide analysis are removed. This second result is highlighted by our additional finding that the SNPs which explain heritability amongst a subsample defined by higher educational attainment explain no heritability of the heritability in the lower education group, and vice-versa. Finally, we do find consistent heritability estimates when we compare family-based estimates versus those based on measured genotype.', u'MicroRNAs (miRNAs), long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) and other functional non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) have emerged as pivotal regulators involved in multiple biological processes. Recently, ncRNA control of gene expression has been identified as a critical regulatory mechanism in the immune system. Despite the great efforts made to discover and characterize ncRNAs, the functional role for most remains unknown. To facilitate discoveries in ncRNA regulation of immune system related processes we developed the database of immunologically relevant ncRNAs (IRNdb), a database of ncRNAs, their immunologically relevant targets, associated biological pathways and experiments. We integrated mouse data on predicted and experimentally verified ncRNA-target interactions, ncRNA and gene annotations, biological pathways and processes, and experimental data in a uniform format with a user-friendly web interface. The current version of IRNdb documents 3,799 experimentally confirmed miRNA-target interactions between 265 miRNAs and 1,633 murine and human-derived immune-related targets. In addition, we recorded 22,453 lncRNA - immune target and 377 PIWI-interacting RNA - immune target interactions. IRNdb is a comprehensive searchable data repository which will be of help in uncovering the role of ncRNAs in immune system related processes.', u'Dynamic Contrast enhance magnetic resonance\nimaging has been established as an accurate method to detect and localize prostate cancer. Time series of three-dimensional datasets\nof the prostate are acquired and used to obtain per-voxel signal-intensity vs. time curves. These are then used to differentiate\ncancerous from non-cancerous tissue. However, rectal peristalsis and patient movement may result in spatial-mismatching of the serial datasets and therefore, incorrect enhancement curves. In this work, we discuss and test four methods based on image registration to compensate for these movements. These methods\ninclude a serial approach that uses the registration of consecutive images and the accumulation of the obtained transformations,\nan all-to one registration approach, an approach that first aligns a sub-set of images that are already closely aligned, and then\nuses synthetic references to register the remaining images, and an approach that uses independent component analysis (ICA) to\ncreate synthetic references and register the images to these. We conclude that the method based on ICA does not provide a viable approach for motion compensation in prostate perfusion imaging, and that the serial approach fails when motion artifacts\nare present in the series. The other two approaches provide qualitatively pleasing results.', u'Biological aging is characterized by an age-dependent increase in the probability of death and by a decrease in the reproductive capacity. Individual age-dependent rates of survival and reproduction have a strong impact on population dynamics, and the genetic elements determining survival and reproduction are under different selective forces throughout an organism lifespan. Here we develop a highly versatile numerical model of genome evolution - both asexual and sexual - for a population of virtual individuals with overlapping generations, where the genetic elements affecting survival and reproduction rate at different life stages are free to evolve due to mutation and selection. Our model recapitulates several emerging properties of natural populations, developing longer reproductive lifespan under stable conditions and shorter survival and reproduction in unstable environments. Faster aging results as the consequence of the reduced strength of purifying selection in more unstable populations, which have large portions of the genome that accumulate detrimental mutations. Unlike sexually reproducing populations under constant resources, asexually reproducing populations fail to develop an age-dependent increase in death rates and decrease in reproduction rates, therefore escaping senescence. Our model provides a powerful in silico framework to simulate how populations and genomes change in the context of biological aging and opens a novel analytical opportunity to characterize how real populations evolve their specific aging dynamics.', u'Ribozymes, which carry out phosphoryl transfer reactions, often require Mg2+ ions for catalytic activity. The correct folding of the active site and ribozyme tertiary structure is also regulated by metal ions in a manner which is not fully understood. Here, we employ coarse-grained molecular simulations to show that individual structural elements of the group I ribozyme from the bacterium Azoarcus form spontaneously in the unfolded ribozyme even at very low Mg2+ concentrations, and are transiently stabilized by coordination of Mg2+ ions to specific nucleotides. However, competition for scarce Mg2+ and topological constraints arising from chain connectivity prevent complete folding of the ribozyme. A much higher Mg2+ concentration is required for complete folding of the ribozyme and stabilization of the active site. When Mg2+ is replaced by Ca2+ the ribozyme folds but the active site remains unstable. Our results suggest that group I ribozymes utilize the same interactions with specific metal ligands for both structural stability and chemical activity.', u'pileup.js is a new browser-based genome viewer. It is designed to facilitate the investigation of evidence for genomic variants within larger web applications. It takes advantage of recent developments in the JavaScript ecosystem to provide a modular, reliable and easily embedded library.', u'In this study, an Escherichia coli (E. coli) based transcription translation cell-free system (TX-TL) was employed to sample various enzyme expression levels of the violacein pathway. The pathway was successfully reconstructed in TX-TL. Its variation produced different metabolites as evident from the extracts assorted colors. Analysis of the violacein product via UV-Vis absorption and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) detected 68 nanograms of violacein per 10 microliters reaction volume. Significant buildup of prodeoxyviolacein intermediate was also detected in the equimolar TX-TL reaction. Finally, design space exploration experiments suggested an improvement in violacein production at high VioC and VioD DNA concentrations.', u'Choosing an ancestral state reconstruction method among the alternatives available for quantita-\ntive characters may be puzzling. We present here a comparison of five of them, namely the maximum\nlikelihood, restricted maximum likelihood, generalized least squares, phylogenetic independent con-\ntrasts and squared parsimony methods.\nA review of the relations between these methods shows that the first three ones infer the same\nancestral states and can only be distinguished by the distributions accounting for the reconstruction\nuncertainty which they provide.\nThe respective accuracy of the methods is assessed over character evolution simulated under a\nBrownian motion with (and without) drift. We start by giving the general form of ancestral state\ndistributions conditioned on leaf states under the simulation model.\nAncestral distributions are used first, to give a theoretical lower bound of the expected recon-\nstruction error, and second, to develop an original evaluation scheme which is more efficient than\ncomparing the reconstructed and the simulated states.\nOur simulations show that: (i) the methods do not perform well as the evolution drift increases;\n(ii) the maximum likelihood method is generally the most accurate and (iii) not all the distributions\nof the reconstruction uncertainty provided by the methods are equally relevant.', u'Multicellular development depends in large part on the growth, patterning and morphogenesis of epithelial sheets. How individual epithelial cells coordinate tissue-scale processes is still poorly understood due to the inherent complexity of emergent systems-level behavior. Testing hypothetical novel biophysical mechanisms across spatial scales requires computational models that can span subcellular to tissue levels. However, the task of including detailed descriptions of interactions between the cytoplasm, cortically enriched cytoskeleton and intercellular adhesion is challenging due to the prohibitively high computational costs. Here, we introduce a multi-scale modeling environment called Epi-Scale for simulating epithelial tissue dynamics based on the Subcellular Element (SCE) modeling approach. Epi-Scale explicitly simulates the separate mechanical contributions of multiple cellular components. Computational implementation of the model is based on an efficient parallelization algorithm that utilizes clusters of Graphical Processing Units (GPUs) for simulating large numbers of cells within a reasonable computational time. Epi-Scale naturally recapitulates cellular and tissue-scale properties consistent with experimental data. As a demonstration of the predictive power of the model, detailed simulations of increased cell-cell rearrangements as a function of tissue growth rates are described. A particular advantage for the Epi-Scale environment is its extensibility toward investigating complex biological processes of multiple cell types and interactions between cells and extracellular matrix.', u'MEG/EEG source imaging is usually done using a three-shell (3-S) or a simpler head model. Such models omit cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) that strongly affects the volume currents. We present a four-compartment (4-C) boundary-element (BEM) model that incorporates the CSF and is computationally efficient and straightforward to build using freely available software. We propose a way for compensating the omission of CSF by decreasing the skull conductivity of the 3-S model, and study the robustness of the 4-C and 3-S models to errors in skull conductivity.\nWe generated dense boundary meshes using MRI datasets and automated SimNIBS pipeline. Then, we built a dense 4-C reference model using Galerkin BEM, and 4-C and 3-S test models using coarser meshes and both Galerkin and collocation BEMs. We compared field topographies of cortical sources, applying various skull conductivities and fitting the optimal and compensated conductivities. When the CSF was left out from the EEG model, our compensated, unbiased approach improved the accuracy of the 3-S model considerably compared to the conventional approach, where CSF is neglected without any compensation (mean relative error < 20% vs. > 40%). The error due to the omission of CSF was of the same order in MEG and compensated EEG. EEG has, however, large overall error due to uncertain skull conductivity.\nOur results show that a realistic 4-C MEG/EEG model can be implemented using standard tools and basic BEM, without excessive workload or computational burden. If the CSF is omitted, compensated skull conductivity should be used in EEG.', u'In previous work, we identified muscle-specific stem cells, which asymmetrically divide to give rise to myoblasts, which fuse to form flight muscle fibres in Drosophila (Gunage et al., 2014). Here, we show the presence of lineal descendants of these stem cells as small, un-fused cells located superficially and in close proximity to mature adult muscle fibres. Normally quiescent, these cells become mitotically active following muscle injury. In view of their strikingly similar morphological and functional features, we consider these cells to be the Drosophila equivalent of vertebrate muscle satellite cells. Thus, in flies as in vertebrates, the stem cell lineage that generates adult-specific muscles is also available for myogenesis in mature muscle. The mechanism of satellite cell activation uses Delta in the muscle fibre signaling to Notch in satellite cells. These results demonstrate the mechanistic value of the fly for further studies on muscle regeneration.', u'The ability to monitor gene expression in intact, optically opaque animals is important for a multitude of applications including longitudinal imaging of transgene expression and long term tracking of cell based therapeutics. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) could enable such monitoring with high spatial and temporal resolution. However, existing MRI reporter genes, based primarily on metal-binding proteins or chemical exchange saturation transfer probes, are limited by their reliance on metal ions or relatively low sensitivity. In this work, we introduce a new class of genetically encoded reporters for MRI that work by altering water diffusivity. We show that overexpression of the human water channel aquaporin 1 (AQP1) produces robust contrast in diffusion weighted MRI by increasing effective water diffusivity in tissues by over 100% without affecting cell viability or morphology. Low levels of AQP1 expression (~1 \u03bcM), or mixed populations comprising as few as 10% AQP1-expressing cells, produce sufficient contrast to be observed by MRI. We demonstrate the utility of AQP1 in vivo by imaging gene expression in intracranial tumor xenografts. Overall, our results establish AQP1 as a new, metal-free, nontoxic and sensitive genetically encoded reporter for diffusion weighted MRI.', u"The evolution of a cancer system consisting of cancer clones and normal cells is a complex dynamic process with multiple interacting factors including clonal expansion, somatic mutation, and sequential selection. As a typical example, in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), a monoclonal population of transformed B cells expands to dominate the B cell population in the peripheral blood and bone marrow. This expansion of transformed B cells suggests that they might evolve through processes distinct from those of normal B cells. Recent advances in next generation sequencing enable the high-throughput identification and tracking of individual B cell clones through sequencing of the V-D-J junction segments of the immunoglobulin heavy chain (IGH). Here we developed a statistical approach to modeling cellular evolution of the immune repertoire.   Adapting the infinitely many alleles model from population genetics, we studied abnormalities occurring in the immune repertoire of patients as substantial deviations from the null model. The Ewens sampling test (EST) distinguished the immune repertoires of CLL patients with imminent relapse from healthy controls and patients in sustained remission. Extensive simulations based on sequencing data showed that EST is sensitive in detecting cancer-related derangements of the IGH repertoire. In addition, we suggest two potentially useful parameters: the rate at which donor's B cell clones enter the circulation and the average time to regenerate a transplanted immune repertoire, both of which help to distinguish relapsing CLL patients from those in sustained remission and provide additional information about the dynamics of immune reconstitution in the latter patients. We anticipate that our models and statistics will be useful in diagnosis and prognosis of leukemia, and may be adapted for application to other diseases related to adaptive immunity.", u'Brachiopods are benthic marine invertebrates that live enclosed in a bivalved shell. Despite having a reduced and unsegmented trunk in the adult stage, brachiopod larvae show putative segmented structures such as transverse ectodermal boundaries and iterated coelomic sacs. Several molecular mechanisms of segmentation have been described in animals considered to be segmented (i.e., the distantly related annelids, arthropods and vertebrates), but far less is known about the role of these "segmentation genes" in other organisms. Here we investigate the expression of the arthropod segment polarity genes engrailed, wnt1 and hedgehog in the development of brachiopods\u2014a group more closely related to the segmented annelids. Expression of engrailed correlates with the development of an anterior nonsegmental ectodermal boundary in the embryos of Terebratalia transversa and Novocrania anomala. Surprisingly, wnt1 is expressed as a stripe adjacent to engrailed in T. transversa in the same manner as in the parasegment boundaries of insects. Expression of hedgehog, however, is restricted to the endoderm and is not compatible with a segment polarity role. In addition, the putative engrailed regulators pax6 and pax2/5/8 encircle the whole embryo and demarcate this anterior ectodermal boundary before engrailed. We conclude brachiopod larvae might have a common anterior patterning involving the expression of pax6, pax2/5/8 and engrailed. Despite key differences to other segment boundaries (e.g., hedgehog expression), we show the characteristic adjacent stripes of engrailed and wnt1 can occur in a nonsegmental ectodermal boundary. A comparison among bilaterians suggests the ancestral expression of engrailed during early development was nonsegmental and conceivably related to the embryonic head/trunk boundary. Our data implies that engrailed was independently recruited to the segment boundaries of annelids and arthropods and to other different developmental boundaries during evolution.', u'Whole genome sequencing (WGS) of bacteria is becoming standard practice in many laboratories. Applications for WGS analysis include phylogeography and molecular epidemiology, using single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) as the unit of evolution. The Northern Arizona SNP Pipeline (NASP) was developed as a reproducible pipeline that scales well with the large amount of WGS data typically used in comparative genomics applications. In this study, we demonstrate how NASP compares to other tools in the analysis of two real bacterial genomics datasets and one simulated dataset. Our results demonstrate that NASP produces comparable, and often better, results to other pipelines, but is much more flexible in terms of data input types, job management systems, diversity of supported tools, and output formats. We also demonstrate differences in results based on the choice of the reference genome and choice of inferring phylogenies from concatenated SNPs or alignments including monomorphic positions. NASP represents a source-available, version-controlled, unit-tested method and can be obtained from tgennorth.github.io/NASP.', u'The sense of smell enables animals to detect and react to long-distance cues according to internalized valences. Odors evoke responses from olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs), whose activities are integrated and processed in olfactory glomeruli and then relayed by projection neurons (PNs) to higher brain centers. The wiring diagram with synaptic resolution, which is unknown for any glomerular olfactory system, would enable the formulation of circuit function hypotheses to explain physiological and behavioral observations. Here, we have mapped with electron microscopy the complete wiring diagram of the left and right antennal lobes of Drosophila larva, an olfactory neuropil similar to the vertebrate olfactory bulb. We found two parallel circuits processing ORN inputs. First, a canonical circuit that consists of uniglomerular PNs that relay gain-controlled ORN inputs to the learning and memory center (mushroom body) and the center for innate behaviors (lateral horn). Second, a novel circuit where multiglomerular PNs and hierarchically structured local neurons (LNs) extract complex features from odor space and relay them to multiple brain areas. We found two types of panglomerular inhibitory LNs: one primarily providing presynaptic inhibition (onto ORNs) and another also providing postsynaptic inhibition (onto PNs), indicating that these two functionally different types of inhibition are susceptible to independent modulation. The wiring diagram revealed an LN circuit that putatively implements a bistable gain control mechanism, which either computes odor saliency through panglomerular inhibition, or allows a subset of glomeruli to respond to faint aversive odors in the presence of strong appetitive odor concentrations. This switch between operational modes is regulated by both neuromodulatory neurons and non-olfactory sensory neurons. Descending neurons from higher brain areas further indicate the context-dependent nature of early olfactory processing. The complete wiring diagram of the first olfactory neuropil of a genetically tractable organism will support detailed experimental and theoretical studies of circuit function towards bridging the gap between circuits and behavior.', u'Cells that mutate or commit to a specialized function (differentiate) often undergo conversions that are effectively irreversible. Slowed growth of converted cells can act as a form of selection, balancing unidirectional conversion to maintain both cell types at a steady-state ratio. However, when one-way conversion is insufficiently counterbalanced by selection, the original cell type will ultimately be lost, often with negative impacts on the population\'s overall fitness. The critical balance between selection and conversion needed for preservation of unconverted cells and the steady-state ratio between cell types depends on the spatial circumstances under which cells proliferate. We present experimental data on a yeast strain engineered to undergo irreversible conversion: this synthetic system permits cell type-specific fluorescent labeling and exogenous variation of the relative growth and conversion rates. We find that populations confined to grow on a flat agar surface are more susceptible than their well-mixed counterparts to fitness loss via a conversion-induced "meltdown."  We then present analytical predictions for growth in several biologically-relevant geometries -- well-mixed liquid media, radially-expanding two-dimensional colonies, and linear fronts in two dimensions -- by employing analogies to the directed percolation transition from non-equilibrium statistical physics. These simplified theories are consistent with the experimental results.', u'Addressing how neural circuits underlie behavior is routinely done by measuring electrical activity from single neurons during experimental sessions. While such recordings yield snapshots of neural dynamics during specified tasks, they are ill-suited for tracking single-unit activity over longer timescales relevant for most developmental and learning processes, or for capturing neural dynamics across different behavioral states. Here we describe an automated platform for continuous long-term recordings of neural activity and behavior in freely moving animals. An unsupervised algorithm identifies and tracks the activity of single units over weeks of recording, dramatically simplifying the analysis of large datasets. Months-long recordings from motor cortex and striatum made and analyzed with our system revealed remarkable stability in basic neuronal properties, such as firing rates and inter-spike interval distributions. Interneuronal correlations and the representation of different movements and behaviors were similarly stable. This establishes the feasibility of high-throughput long-term extracellular recordings in behaving animals.', u'We propose a simple method for reference-free deconvolution that provides both proportions of putative cell types defined by their underlying methylomes, the number of these constituent cell types, as well as a method for evaluating the extent to which the underlying methylomes reflect specific types of cells.  We have demonstrated these methods in an analysis of 23 Infinium data sets from 13 distinct data collection efforts; these empirical evaluations show that our algorithm can reasonably estimate the number of constituent types, return cell proportion estimates that demonstrate anticipated associations with underlying phenotypic data; and methylomes that reflect the underlying biology of constituent cell types.  Thus the methodology permits an explicit quantitation of the mediation of phenotypic associations with DNA methylation by cell composition effects.  Although more work is needed to investigate functional information related to estimated methylomes, our proposed method provides a novel and useful foundation for conducting DNA methylation studies on heterogeneous tissues lacking reference data.', u'Neuroticism is a personality trait of fundamental importance for psychological wellbeing and public health.  It is strongly associated with major depressive disorder (MDD) and several other psychiatric conditions.  Although neuroticism is heritable, attempts to identify the alleles involved in previous studies have been limited by relatively small sample sizes and heterogeneity in the measurement of neuroticism.  Here we report a genome-wide association study of neuroticism in 91,370 participants of the UK Biobank cohort and a combined meta-analysis which includes a further 6,659 participants from the Generation Scotland Scottish Family Health Study (GS:SFHS) and 8,687 participants from a QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute (QIMR) cohort.  All participants were assessed using the same neuroticism instrument, the Eysenck Personality Questionnaire-Revised (EPQ-R-S) Short Form Neuroticism scale.  We found a SNP-based heritability estimate for neuroticism of approximately 15% (SE = 0.7%).  Meta-analysis identified 9 novel loci associated with neuroticism.  The strongest evidence for association was at a locus on chromosome 8 (p = 1.5x10-15) spanning 4 Mb and containing at least 36 genes.  Other associated loci included interesting candidate genes on chromosome 1 (GRIK3, glutamate receptor ionotropic kainate 3), chromosome 4 (KLHL2, Kelch-like protein 2), chromosome 17 (CRHR1, corticotropin-releasing hormone receptor 1 and MAPT, microtubule-associated protein Tau), and on chromosome 18 (CELF4, CUGBP elav-like family member 4).  We found no evidence for genetic differences in the common allelic architecture of neuroticism by sex.  By comparing our findings with those of the Psychiatric Genetics Consortia, we identified a strong genetic correlation between neuroticism and MDD (0.64) and a less strong but significant genetic correlation with schizophrenia (0.22), although not with bipolar disorder.  Polygenic risk scores derived from the primary UK Biobank sample captured about 1% of the variance in neuroticism in independent samples.  Overall, our findings confirm a polygenic basis for neuroticism and substantial shared genetic architecture between neuroticism and MDD.  The identification of 9 new neuroticism-associated loci will drive forward future work on the neurobiology of neuroticism and related phenotypes.', u'Using genome-wide SNP-based methods for tracking pathogens has become standard practice in academia and public health agencies.\nThere are multiple computational approaches available that perform a similar task:\ncall variants by mapping short read data against a reference genome, quality filter these variants,\nthen concatenate the variants into a sequence matrix for downstream phylogenetic analysis.\nHowever, there are no existing methods to validate the accuracy of these approaches despite the fact that we know there are parameters that can affect whether a SNP is called,\nor the correct tree is recovered. \nWe present a simulation approach (TreeToReads) to generate raw read data from mutated genomes simulated under a known phylogeny. \nThe user can vary parameters of interest at each step in the simulation (e.g., topology, model of sequence evolution, and read coverage) to assess the robustness of a given result, \nwhich is critical within both research and applied settings.\nSource code, examples, and a tutorial are available at \\url{https://github.com/snacktavish/TreeToReads}.', u"The auditory stimulation method used in experiments on moth A cell(s) is generally believed to be adequate to characterise the encoding of echolocation signals. The stimulation method hosts, though, several bias. Their compounded effects can explain a range of discrepancies between the reported electrophysiological recordings and significantly alter the current interpretation. To test the hypothesis that the bias may significantly alter our current understanding of the moth's auditory transducer characteristics, papers using the same auditory stimulation method and reporting on either spiking threshold or spiking activity of the moth's A cells were analysed. The consistency of the reported data was assessed. A range of corrections issued from best practices and theoretical background were applied to the data in an attempt to re-interpret the data. We found that it is not possible to apply a posteriori corrections to all data and bias. However the corrected data indicates that the A cell's spiking may be (i) independent of the repetition rate, (ii) maximum when detecting the long and low intensity pulses of the bat in searching mode, and (iii) steadily reduce as the bat closes on the moth. These observations raise the possibility that a fixed action pattern drives the moths's erratic evasive manoeuvres until the final moment. In depth investigation of the potential bias also suggest that the auditory transducer's response may be constant for a larger frequency range than thought so far, and provide clues to explain the negative taxis in response to the searching bats's calls detection.", u'Many common diseases show wide clinical or phenotypic variation.  We present a statistical method for determining whether phenotypically defined subgroups of disease cases represent different genetic pathophysiologies, in which disease-associated variants have different effect sizes.  Our method models the genomewide distributions of genetic association statistics with mixture Gaussians.  We test for differential genetic bases without requiring explicit identification of disease-associated variants, maximizing power compared with  standard variant-by-variant analyses.  Where evidence for genetic subgroups is found, we present methods for subsequent identification of the contributing genetic variants. \n\nWe demonstrate the method on simulated and test datasets where expected results are already known. We investigate subgroups of type 1 diabetes (T1D) cases defined by autoantibody positivity, establishing evidence for differential genetic basis with thyroid peroxidase antibody positivity. \n\nOur method determines the existence of a genetic basis for disease heterogeneity, enabling genomics to inform the development of precision medicine.', u'The precision of the inlet parameters depends on mechanism of response. Reflexes are satisfied with relative higher or lower but if the inlet information is presented by different parameters and the response is calculated according to some equation precision must reach the degree which does not slur over the results of calculation. At recent work the equation for controlling of circulation was suggested where the main inlet parameters are the arterial diastolic and vinous pressures and it becomes pertinent to analyze how organism can perceive these pressures with hydrodynamic accuracy. As far as the velocity pressure component of total pressure can not be detected by wall receptor of the rectilinear section of artery it was noticed that baroreceptors are located at the outer radius of the bend of central arteries and that is justified due to specific distribution of pressure. This phenomenon can be interpreted as a correction of measuring of static pressure with regard for velocity pressure component. Velocity pressure component of venous pressure is comparable with the one of arterial pressure but static components of venous and arterial pressures are incomparable and it is the fact that cannot be ignored when choosing the gauge. The possible method of measuring of pressure is based on observation that pressure-volume vector of the ventricular cycle is similar to a-loop vector of atrial cycle. Ventricular filling vector and x-trough vector show the behavior of viscous material but v-loop inserted into a-loop demonstrates typical viscoelasticity with creep. If viscous deformation of atrium at early relaxation possesses standard duration being stopped by transformation of viscous deformation into viscoelastic deformation the venous pressure can be measured in accordance with the value of viscous deformation. Measuring of pressure by viscous method implemented by atrium has the advantage comparing to measuring by baroreceptor with elastic sensor. Early relaxation of atrium which reveals coefficient of viscosity corresponds to ventricular relaxation and its coefficient of viscosity but the latter is liable to different biochemical shifts. Such shifts influences the atrial coefficient of viscosity either and the values of venous pressure measured by viscous method will be more accurate for calculations because coefficient of viscosity participates in the equation being not estimated in organism.', u"Sites of biologically interesting selection are identified by comparing observed evolutionary patterns to those expected under a null model for evolution in the absence of such selection. For protein-coding genes, the most common null model is that nonsynonymous and synonymous mutations fix at equal rates; this unrealistic model has limited power to detect interesting selection. I describe a new approach that uses a null model based on high-throughput measurements of a gene's site-specific amino-acid preferences. This null model makes it possible to identify diversifying selection for amino-acid change and differential selection for mutations to unexpected amino acids. I show that this approach identifies sites of adaptive substitutions in four genes (lactamase, Gal4, influenza nucleoprotein, and influenza hemagglutinin) far better than traditional methods. As rapid increases in biological data enable increasingly nuanced descriptions of the constraints on individual sites, approaches like the one here can greatly improve our ability to identify biologically interesting selection.", u'Transposable elements are emerging as an important source of cis-acting regulatory sequences and epigenetic marks that could influence gene expression. However, few studies have dissected the role of specific transposable element insertions on gene regulation. Bari-Jheh is a natural transposon that mediates resistance to oxidative stress by adding cis-regulatory sequences.  In this work, we integrated publicly available data with chromatin immunoprecipitation and immune response assays to get a more comprehensive picture of Bari-Jheh molecular and functional effects. We showed that Bari-Jheh is associated with H3K27me3 enrichment, which is consistent with expression changes in adjacent genes. We further showed that stress affects the histone marks introduced by Bari-Jheh, which correlates with further expression changes. Finally, we found that flies with Bari-Jheh, which are resistant to oxidative stress, are also more tolerant to bacterial infection. We conclude that Bari-Jheh influences gene expression and enables stress response through two different mechanisms, by adding cis-regulatory sequences and by adding histone marks, leading to changes in two ecologically relevant phenotypes.', u'Hexactinellida (glass sponges) are abundant and important components of Antarctic\nbenthic communities. However, the relationships and systematics within the common\ngenus Rossella Carter, 1872 (Lyssacinosida: Rossellidae) are unclear and in need of revi-\nsion. The species content of this genus has changed dramatically over the years depend-\ning on the criteria used by the taxonomic authority consulted. Rossella was formerly\nregarded as a putatively monophyletic group distributed in the Southern Ocean and the\nNorth Atlantic. However, molecular phylogenetic analyses have shown that Rossella is\nrestricted to the Southern Ocean, where it shows a circum-Antarctic and subantarctic\ndistribution. Herein, we provide a molecular phylogenetic analysis of the genus Rossella,\nbased on mitochondrial (16S rDNA and COI) and nuclear (28S rDNA) markers. We cor-\nroborate the monophyly of Rossella and provide evidence supporting the existence of\none species, namely Rossella antarctica Carter, 1872 and a species flock including spec-\nimens determined as Rossella racovitzae Topsent, 1901, Rossella nuda Topsent, 1901,\nRossella fibulata Schulze & Kirkpatrick, 1910, and Rossella levis (Kirkpatrick, 1907).', u'The abundance of bacteria in liquid culture is commonly inferred by measuring optical density at 600 nm. Red fluorescent proteins (RFP) can strongly absorb light at 600 nm. Increasing RFP expression can falsely inflate apparent cell density and lead to underestimations of mean per-cell fluorescence by up to 10%. Measuring optical density at 700 nm would allow estimation of cell abundance unaffected by the presence of nearly all fluorescent proteins.', u'In this article, we present an example of how to parameterize a partial differential equation model of glioblastoma growth for individual patients. The parameters allow for a deeper understanding of individual patients which have all been labeled with the same disease based on the tumor growth kinetics.', u'The frontopolar cortex (FPC), the most anterior part of the lateral prefrontal cortex corresponding to Brodmann area 10, is involved in human high-order cognition, including reasoning, problem-solving and multitasking. Its specific contribution to prefrontal executive function, however, remains unclear. A neurocomputational model suggests that the FPC implements a basic process referred to as cognitive branching that maintains a task in a pending state during the execution of another, and enables to revert back to it upon completion of the ongoing one. However, the FPC is engaged in other cognitive functions including prospective memory, relational reasoning, episodic memory retrieval and attentional set-shifting, which are not directly linked to the notion of cognitive branching. Here we used a neurocomputional branching model to simulate the involvement of the FPC in these various cognitive functions. Simulation results indicate that the model accounts for the variety of FPC activations observed in these various experimental paradigms. Thus, the present study provides theoretical evidence suggesting that all these behavioral paradigms implicitly involve branching processes, and supports the idea that cognitive branching is the core function of the human frontopolar cortex.', u'A major challenge in molecular simulations is to describe denaturant-dependent folding of proteins order to make direct comparisons with in vitro experiments. We use the molecular transfer model (MTM), which is currently the only method that accomplishes this goal albeit phenomenologically, to quantitatively describe urea-dependent folding of PDZ domain, which plays a significant role in molecular recognition and signaling. Experiments show that urea-dependent unfolding rates of the PDZ2 domain exhibit a downward curvature at high urea concentrations ([C]s), which has been interpreted by invoking the presence of a sparsely populated high energy intermediate.  Simulations using the MTM and a coarse-grained Self-Organized Polymer (SOP) representation of PDZ2 are used to show that the intermediate (IEQ), which  has some native-like character, is present in equilibrium both in the presence and absence of urea. The free energy profiles as a function of the structural overlap order parameter show that there are two barriers separating the folded and unfolded states. Structures of the transition state ensembles, (TSE1 separating the unfolded and (IEQ) and TSE2 separating IEQ and the native state), determined using the Pfold method, show that TSE1 is greatly expanded while TSE2 is compact and native-like. Folding trajectories reveal that PDZ2 folds by parallel routes. In one pathway folding occurs exclusively through I1, which resembles IEQ. In a fraction of trajectories, constituting the second pathway, folding occurs through a combination of I1 and a kinetic intermediate. We  establish that the radius of gyration (RUg) of the unfolded state is more compact (by \u223c9%) under native conditions. Theory and simulations show that the decrease in RUg occurs on the time scale on the order of utmost \u223c20 \u03bcs. The modest decrease in RUg and the rapid collapse suggest  that high spatial and temporal resolution, currently beyond the scope of most small angle X-ray scattering experiments, are needed to detect compaction in finite-sized proteins. The present work further establishes that MTM is efficacious in producing nearly quantitative predictions for folding of proteins under conditions used to carry out experiments.', u'Large-scale data collection and processing have facilitated scientific discoveries in fields such as genomics and imaging, but cross-investigations between multiple big datasets remain impractical. Computational requirements of high-dimensional association studies are often too demanding for individual sites. Additionally, the sheer size of intermediate results is unfit for collaborative settings where summary statistics are exchanged for meta-analyses. Here we introduce the HASE framework to perform high-dimensional association studies with dramatic reduction in both computational burden and storage requirements of intermediate results. We implemented a novel meta-analytical method that yields identical power as pooled analyses without the need of sharing individual participant data. The efficiency of the framework is illustrated by associating 9 million genetic variants with 1.5 million brain imaging voxels in three cohorts (total N=4,034) followed by meta-analysis, on a standard computational infrastructure. These experiments indicate that HASE facilitates high-dimensional association studies enabling large multicenter association studies for future discoveries.', u'The amplification of the gene MYCN (V-myc myelocytomatosis viral-valeted oncogene, neuroblastoma derived) has been a well-documented indicator for poor prognosis in neuroblastoma, a childhood cancer. Unfortunately, there has been limited success in understanding MYCN functionality in the landscape of neuroblastoma and more importantly, given that MYCN has been deemed "undruggable," the need to potentially illuminate key opportunities that indirectly target MYCN is of great interest. To this end, this work employs an emerging quantitative technique from network science, namely network curvature, to quantify\nthe biological robustness of MYCN and its surrounding neighborhood. In particular, when amplified in Stage IV cancer, MYCN exhibits higher curvature (more robust) than those samples with under expressed MYCN levels. When examining the surrounding neighborhood, the above argument still holds for network curvature, but is lost when only analyzing differential expression - a common technique amongst oncologists and computational/molecular biologists. This\nfinding points to the problem (and possible solution) of drug targeting in the context of complexity and indirect cell signaling affects that have often been obfuscated through traditional techniques.', u'Chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by sequencing (ChIP-seq) is an important tool for studying gene regulatory proteins, such as transcription factors and histones. Peak calling is one of the first steps in analysis of these data. Peak-calling consists of two sub-problems: identifying candidate peaks and testing candidate peaks for statistical significance. We surveyed 30 methods and identified 12 features of the two sub-problems that distinguish methods from each other. We picked six methods (GEM, MACS2, MUSIC, BCP, TM and ZINBA) that span this feature space and used a combination of 300 simulated ChIP-seq data sets, 3 real data sets and mathematical analyses to identify features of methods that allow some to perform better than others. We prove that methods that explicitly combine the signals from ChIP and input samples are less powerful than methods that do not. Methods that use windows of different sizes are more powerful than ones that do not. For statistical testing of candidate peaks, methods that use a Poisson test to rank their candidate peaks are more powerful than those that use a Binomial test. BCP and MACS2 have the best operating characteristics on simulated transcription factor binding data. GEM has the highest fraction of the top 500 peaks containing the binding motif of the immunoprecipitated factor, with 50% of its peaks within 10 base pairs (bp) of a motif. BCP and MUSIC perform best on histone data. These findings provide guidance and rationale for selecting the best peak caller for a given application.', u'The distribution of dispersal distances in a population (i.e. the dispersal kernel) is often considered to be a non-evolvable property of a species. We tested this widely-held belief by subjecting four laboratory populations of Drosophila melanogaster to selection for increased dispersal. The dispersal kernel evolved rapidly, both in terms of the location parameter (i.e. mean distance travelled), as well as the shape parameters (e.g. skew and kurtosis). Consequently, the frequency of long-distance dispersers in the population increased, which enhanced the spatial extent of the selected populations by 67%. The selected populations also had significantly greater dispersal propensity and rate. The evolvability of dispersal kernels can potentially affect range expansion, invasion speed and disease spread, which in turn might have considerable socio-economic consequences.', u'Background\nChronic pain is highly prevalent worldwide and a significant source of disability, yet its genetic and environmental risk factors are poorly understood. Its relationship with psychiatric illness, and major depressive disorder (MDD) in particular, is of particular importance. We sought to test the contribution of genetic factors and shared and unique environment to risk of chronic pain and its correlation with MDD in Generation Scotland: Scottish Family Health Study (GS:SFHS). We then sought to replicate any significant findings in the UK Biobank study. \n\nMethods\nUsing family-based mixed-model analyses, we examined the contribution of genetics and environment to chronic pain using spouse, sibling and household groups as measures of shared environment. We then examined the correlation between chronic pain and MDD and estimated the contribution of genetic factors and shared environment. Finally, we used data from two independent genome-wide association studies to test whether chronic pain has a polygenic risk architecture and examine whether genomic risk of psychiatric disorder predicted chronic pain and whether genomic risk of chronic pain predicted MDD. \n\nResults\nChronic pain is a moderately heritable trait (narrow sense heritability = 38.4%) which is more likely to be concordant in spouses and partners (variance explained 18.7%). Chronic pain is positively correlated with depression (rho = 0.13, p = 2.72x10-68) and it shows a tendency to cluster within families for genetic reasons (genetic correlation rho = 0.51, p = 8.24x10-19). Polygenic risk profiles for pain, generated using independent GWAS data, predicted chronic pain in both GS:SFHS (maximum  = 6.18x10-2, p = 4.3x10-4) and UK Biobank (maximum  = 5.68 x 10-2, p < 3x10-4). Genomic risk of MDD is also significantly associated with chronic pain in both GS:SFHS (maximum  = 6.62x10-2, p = 4.3x10-4) and UK Biobank (maximum  = 2.56x10-2, p < 3x10-4).\n\nConclusions\nGenetic factors and chronic pain in a partner or spouse contribute substantially to the risk of chronic pain in the general population. Chronic pain is genetically correlated with MDD, has a polygenic architecture and is predicted by polygenic risk of MDD.', u'The epigenetic modifications are organized in patterns determining the functional properties of the underlying genome. Such patterns, typically measured by ChIP-seq assays of histone modifications, can be combined and translated into musical scores, summarizing multiple signals into a single waveform. As music is recognized as a universal way to convey meaningful information (1), we wanted to investigate properties of music obtained by sonification of ChIP-seq data. We show that the music produced by such quantitative signals is perceived by human listener as more pleasant than that produced from randomized signals. Moreover, the waveform can be analyzed to predict phenotypic properties, such as differential gene expression.', u'Objective: To develop a protein-protein interaction network of rectal cancer, which is based on genetic genes as well as to predict biological pathways underlying the molecular complexes in the network. In order to analyze and summarize genetic markers related to diagnosis and prognosis of rectal cancer.\nMethods: the genes expression profile was downloaded from OMIM (Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man) database; the protein-protein interaction network of rectal cancer was established by Cytoscape; the molecular complexes in the network were detected by Clusterviz plugin and the pathways enrichment of molecular complexes were performed by DAVID online and Bingo (The Biological Networks Gene Ontology tool).       \nResults and Discussion: A total of 127 rectal cancer genes were identified to differentially express in OMIM Database. The protein-protein interaction network of rectal cancer was contained 966 nodes (proteins), 3377 edges (interactive relationships) and 7 molecular complexes (score>7.0). Regulatory effects of genes and proteins were focused on cell cycle, transcription regulation and cellular protein metabolic process. Genes of DDK1, sparcl1, wisp2, cux1, pabpc1, ptk2 and htra1 were significant nodes in PPI network. The discovery of featured genes which were probably related to rectal cancer, has a great significance on studying mechanism, distinguishing normal and cancer tissues, and exploring new treatments for rectal cancer.', u"Robustness of a system's behavior to changes in parameter values is a remarkable property of natural systems and especially desirable when designing de novo synthetic gene circuits. Loads on transcription factors resulting from  binding to  target promoters  have been shown to significantly affect the effective time constants of gene transcription networks and to thus alter the overall system's behavior. Here, we employ models that explicitly account for load effects to   investigate how these impact the robustness of a stable gene transcription network to parameter perturbations. By employing a combination of sampling-based methods and analytical tools from control theory, we demonstrate that the presence of  loading  shrinks the region of parameter space where a gene circuit performs the desired function. A number of multi-module synthetic gene circuits are analyzed to demonstrate this point, including an event detector and a molecular signature classifier. These results indicate that for designing genetic circuits that are robust to parameter uncertainty it is highly desirable to find ways to mitigate the effects of transcription factor loading.", u'Much of the morphological diversity in nature\u2212including among sexes within a species\u2212is a direct consequence of variation in size and shape. However, disentangling variation in sexual dimorphism for both shape (SShD), size (SSD) and their relationship with one another remains complex. Understanding how genetic variation influences both size and shape together, and how this in turn influences SSD and SShD is challenging. In this study we utilize Drosophila wing size and shape as a model system to investigate how mutations influence size and shape as modulated by sex. Previous work has demonstrated that mutations in Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) and Transforming Growth Factor - \u03b2 (TGF-\u03b2) signaling components can influence both wing size and shape. In this study we re-analyze this data to specifically address how they impact the relationship between size and shape in a sex-specific manner, in turn altering the pattern of sexual dimorphism. While most mutations influence shape overall, only a subset have a genotypic specific effect that influences SShD. Furthermore, while we observe sex-specific patterns of allometric shape variation, the effects of most mutations on allometry tend to be small. We discuss this within the context of using mutational analysis to understand sexual size and shape dimorphism.', u'Despite the global economic and ecological importance of forest trees, the genomic basis of differential adaptation and speciation in tree species is still poorly understood. Populus tremula and P. tremuloides are two of the most widespread tree species in the Northern Hemisphere. Using whole-genome re-sequencing data of 24 P. tremula and 22 P. tremuloides individuals, we find that the two species diverged ~2.2-3.1 million years ago, coinciding with the severing of the Bering land bridge and the onset of dramatic climatic oscillations during the Pleistocene. Both species have experienced substantial population expansions following long-term declines after species divergence. We detect widespread and heterogeneous genomic differentiation between species, and in accordance with the expectation of allopatric speciation, coalescent simulations suggest that neutral evolutionary processes can account for most of the observed patterns of genomic differentiation. However, there is an excess of regions exhibiting extreme differentiation relative to those expected under demographic simulations, which is indicative of the action of natural selection. Overall genetic differentiation is negatively associated with recombination rate in both species, providing strong support for a role of linked selection in generating the heterogeneous genomic landscape of differentiation between species. Finally, we identify a number of candidate regions and genes that may have been subject to positive and/or balancing selection during the speciation process.', u'Physical forces arising in the extra-cellular environment have a profound impact on cell fate and gene regulation; however the underlying biophysical mechanisms that control this sensitivity remain elusive. It is hypothesized that gene expression may be influenced by the physical deformation of the nucleus in response to force. Here, using 3T3s as a model, we demonstrate that extra-cellular forces cause cell nuclei to rapidly deform (< 1 s) preferentially along their shorter nuclear axis, in an anisotropic manner. Nuclear anisotropy is shown to be regulated by the cytoskeleton within intact cells, with actin and microtubules resistant to orthonormal strains. Importantly, nuclear anisotropy is intrinsic, and observed in isolated nuclei. The sensitivity of this behaviour is influenced by chromatin organization and lamin-A expression. An anisotropic response to force was also highly conserved amongst an array of examined nuclei from differentiated and undifferentiated cell types. Although the functional purpose of this conserved material property remains elusive, it may provide a mechanism through which mechanical cues in the microenvironment are rapidly transmitted to the genome.', u'In Reticulitermes chinensis, a close relative of R. speratus with asexual queen succession, unfertilized eggs can be produced but are not incubated. To explain this phenomenon, we analysed the physiological differences between unfertilized eggs/unmated queens and fertilized eggs/mated queens. Fertilized eggs consumed significantly larger quantities of five amino acids (Cys, Met, Ile, Leu and Tyr), Ca, protein and cholesterol during incubation. The higher levels of four trace elements (Na, K, Zn and Fe) in fertilized eggs and their lower levels in mated queens indicated that mated queens might transfer these trace elements to fertilized eggs to complete incubation. The higher levels of Mn, triglycerides and serotonin in mated queens and higher levels of Mn and glucose in fertilized eggs suggested that these substances are very important for normal ovarian and embryonic growth. The different expression of three reproductive genes (vtg1, rab11 and JHE1) suggested that they might be involved in the regulation of ovarian and embryonic growth. Overall, changes in these physiological indices may substantially affect ovarian and embryonic growth and prohibit the incubation of unfertilized eggs in R. chinensis.', u'In a recent publication entitled "Limitations of GCTA as a solution to the missing heritability problem" Krishna Kumar et al. (2015 PNAS) claim that "GCTA applied to current SNP data cannot produce reliable or stable estimates of heritability". Here we show that those claims are false and that results presented by Krishna Kumar et al. are in fact entirely consistent with and can be predicted from the theory underlying GCTA.', u'Many species are shifting their ranges in response to global climate change. The evolution of dispersal during range expansion increases invasion speed, provided that a species can adapt sufficiently fast to novel local conditions. Mutation rates can evolve too, under conditions that favor an increased rate of adaptation. However, evolution at the mutator gene has thus far been deemed of minor importance in sexual populations due to its dependence on genetic hitchhiking with a beneficial mutation at a gene under selection, and thus its sensitivity to recombination. Here we use an individual-based model to show that the mutator gene and the gene under selection can be effectively linked at the population level during invasion. This causes the evolutionary increase of mutation rates in sexual populations, even if they are not linked at the individual level. The observed evolution of mutation rate is adaptive and clearly advances range expansion both through its effect on the evolution of dispersal rate, and the evolution of local adaptation. In addition, we observe the evolution of mutation rates in a spatially stable population under strong directional selection, but not when we add variance to the mean selection pressure. By this we extend the existing theory on the evolution of mutation rates, which is generally thought to be limited to asexual populations, with possibly far-reaching consequences concerning invasiveness and the rate at which species can adapt to novel environmental conditions as experienced under global climate change.', u'Dose from radiation exposure can be estimated from dicentric chromosome (DC) frequencies in metaphase cells of peripheral blood lymphocytes.  We automated DC detection by extracting features in Giemsa-stained metaphase chromosome images and classifying objects by machine learning (ML).  DC detection involves i) intensity thresholded segmentation of metaphase objects, ii) chromosome separation by watershed transformation and elimination of inseparable chromosome clusters, fragments and staining debris using a morphological decision tree filter, iii) determination of chromosome width and centreline, iv) derivation of centromere candidates and v) distinction of DCs from monocentric chromosomes (MC) by ML. Centromere candidates are inferred from 14 image features input to a Support Vector Machine (SVM). 16 features derived from these candidates are then supplied to a Boosting classifier and a second SVM which determines whether a chromosome is either a DC or MC. The SVM was trained with 292 DCs and 3135 MCs, and then tested with cells exposed to either low (1 Gy) or high (2-4 Gy) radiation dose.  Results were then compared with those of 3 experts. True positive rates (TPR) and positive predictive values (PPV) were determined for the tuning parameter, \u03c3. At larger \u03c3,  PPV decreases and TPR increases.  At high dose, for \u03c3= 1.3, TPR = 0.52 and PPV = 0.83, while at \u03c3= 1.6, the TPR = 0.65 and PPV = 0.72.  At low dose and \u03c3 = 1.3, TPR = 0.67 and PPV = 0.26. The algorithm differentiates DCs from MCs, overlapped chromosomes and other objects with acceptable accuracy over a wide range of radiation exposures.', u'Exome sequencing is becoming a standard tool for gene mapping of genetic diseases. Given the vast amount of data generated by Next Generation Sequencing techniques, identification of disease causal variants is like finding a needle in a haystack. The impact assessment and the prioritization of potential pathogenic variants are expected to reduce work in biological validation, which is long and costly.\nOne of the possible approaches to determine the most probable deleterious variants in individual exomes is to use protein function alteration prediction. We propose in this paper to use a machine learning approach, the random forest to build a new meta-score based on five previously described scores (SIFT, Polyphen2, LRT, PhyloP and MutationTaster) and compiled in the dbNSFP database.\nThe functional meta-score was trained on a dataset of 61500 non-synonymous Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs). The random forest method (rfPred) appears to be globally better than each of the classifiers separately or in combination in a logistic regression model, and better than a newly described score (CADD) on independent validation sets.\nRfPred scores have been pre-calculated for all the possible non-synonymous SNPs of human exome and are freely accessible at the web-server http://www.sbim.fr/rfPred/', u'Distant-dependent correlations in spontaneous retinal activity are thought to be instructive in the development of the retinotopic map and eye-specific segregation maps. Many studies which seek to investigate these correlations and their role in map formation record spontaneous retinal activity from different phenotypes or experimental conditions and compare the distance-dependence of the correlations between different conditions. They seek to demonstrate that these correlations differ significantly, and this analysis is often key to the conclusions of the study. In this work, we assess the methods of inference which have been previously used to investigate this problem and conclude that they are inadequate. We propose a hierarchical Bayesian framework to model distant-dependent correlations in spontaneous retinal activity data and specify a method which uses the data to specify the form of the model. This model allows us to assess the evidence for/against differences in correlations between experimental conditions in a more robust and credible way. We demonstrate the use of this method by applying it to data from two studies of spontaneous retinal activity. We believe however the framework to be rather more general and that it can be used in a wide range of datasets where distance and correlation are substitute for other independent and dependent variables from experiments.', u'Equations that govern the temperature-dependence of the rate constants, Gibbs energies, enthalpies, entropies and heat capacities of activation for folding and unfolding of spontaneously-folding fixed two-state systems have been derived using a procedure that treats the denatured and the native conformers as being confined to harmonic Gibbs energy wells. The notion that a two-state system is physically defined only for a set temperature range is introduced. The implications of this novel treatment for protein folding are discussed.', u'Identification of long and short RNAs, their processing and expression patterns have been greatly facilitated by high-throughput sequencing. Frequently, these RNAs act as guides for ribonucleoprotein complexes that regulate the expression or processing of target RNAs. However, to determine the targets of the many newly discovered regulatory RNAs in high-throughput remains a challenge. To globally assign guide small nucleolar RNAs to site of 2\'-O-ribose methylation in human cells, we here developed novel computational methods for the analysis of data that was generated with protocols designed to capture direct small RNA-target interactions and to identify the sites of 2\'-O-ribose methylation genome-wide. We thereby determined that many "orphan" snoRNAs appear to guide 2\'-O-ribose methylation at sites that are targeted by other snoRNAs and that snoRNAs can be reliably captured in interaction with many mRNAs, in which a subsequent 2\'-O-methylation cannot be detected. Our study provides a reliable approach to the comprehensive characterization of snoRNA-target interactions in species beyond those in which these interactions have been traditionally studied and contribute to the rapidly developing field of "epitranscriptomics".', u'Confusion about strain classification and nomenclature permeates modern microbiology. Although taxonomists have traditionally acted as gatekeepers of order, the numbers of and speed at which new strains are identified has outpaced the opportunity for professional classification for many lineages. Furthermore, the growth of bioinformatics and database-fueled investigations have placed metadata curation in the hands of researchers with little taxonomic experience.  Here I describe practical challenges facing modern microbial taxonomy, provide an overview of complexities of classification for environmentally ubiquitous taxa like Pseudomonas syringae, and emphasize that classification and nomenclature need not be the one in the same. A move toward implementation of relational classification schemes based on inherent properties of whole genomes could provide sorely needed continuity in how strains are referenced across manuscripts and data sets.', u'Overexpression of SPARC, a collagen-binding glycoprotein, is strongly associated with tumor invasion through extracellular matrix in many aggressive cancers. SPARC regulates numerous cellular processes including integrin-mediated cell adhesion, cell signaling pathways, and extracellular matrix assembly; however, the mechanism by which SPARC promotes cell invasion in vivo remains unclear. A main obstacle in understanding SPARC function has been the difficulty of visualizing and experimentally examining the dynamic interactions between invasive cells, extracellular matrix and SPARC in native tissue environments.  Using the model of anchor cell invasion through the basement membrane (BM) extracellular matrix in Caenorhabditis elegans, we find that SPARC overexpression is highly pro-invasive and rescues BM transmigration in mutants with defects in diverse aspects of invasion, including cell polarity, invadopodia formation, and matrix metalloproteinase expression.  By examining BM assembly, we find that overexpression of SPARC specifically decreases levels of BM type IV collagen, a crucial structural BM component.  Reduction of type IV collagen mimicked SPARC overexpression and was sufficient to promote invasion. Tissue-specific overexpression and photobleaching experiments revealed that SPARC acts extracellularly to inhibit collagen incorporation into BM. By reducing endogenous SPARC, we also found that SPARC functions normally to traffic collagen from its site of synthesis to tissues that do not express collagen. We propose that a surplus of SPARC disrupts extracellular collagen trafficking and reduces BM collagen incorporation, thus weakening the BM barrier and dramatically enhancing its ability to be breached by invasive cells.', u'Understanding the genetic basis for changes in transcriptional regulation is an important aspect of understanding phenotypic evolution. Using interspecific introgression lines, we infer the mechanisms of divergence in genome-wide patterns of gene expression between the nightshades Solanum pennellii and S. lycopersicum (domesticated tomato). We find that cis- and trans-regulatory changes have had qualitatively similar contributions to divergence in this clade, unlike results from other systems. Additionally, expression data from four tissues (shoot apex, ripe fruit, pollen, and seed) suggest that introgressed regions in these hybrid lines tend to be down-regulated, while background (non-introgressed) genes tend to be up-regulated. Finally, we find no evidence for an association between the magnitude of differential expression in NILs and previously determined sterility phenotypes. Our results contradict previous predictions of the predominant role of cis- over trans-regulatory divergence between species, and do not support a major role for gross genome-wide misregulation in reproductive isolation between these species.', u'Meiotic recombination creates genotypic diversity within species. Recombination rates vary substantially across taxa and the distribution of crossovers can differ significantly among populations and between sexes. Crossover locations within species have been found to vary by chromosome and by position within chromosomes, where most crossover events occur in small regions known as recombination hotspots. However, several species appear to lack hotspots despite significant crossover heterogeneity. The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans was previously found to have the least fine-scale variation in crossover distribution among organisms studied to date.  It is unclear whether this pattern extends to the X chromosome given its unique compaction through the pachytene stage of meiotic prophase in hermaphrodites. We generated 798 recombinant nested near-isogenic lines (NILs) with crossovers in a 1.41 Mb region on the left arm of the X chromosome to determine if its recombination landscape is similar to that of the autosomes. We find that the fine-scale variation in crossover rate is lower than that of other model species and is inconsistent with hotspots. The relationship of genomic features to crossover rate is dependent on scale, with GC content, histone modifications, and nucleosome occupancy being negatively associated with crossovers. We also find that the abundances of 4-6 base pair DNA motifs significantly explain crossover density. These results are consistent with recombination occurring at unevenly distributed sites of open chromatin.', u"The genetic code is the universal cellular translation table to convert nucleotide into amino acid sequences. Changes to sense codons are expected to be highly detrimental. However, reassignments of single or multiple codons in mitochondria and nuclear genomes demonstrated that the code can evolve. Still, alterations of nuclear genetic codes are extremely rare leaving hypotheses to explain these variations, such as the 'codon capture', the 'genome streamlining' and the 'ambiguous intermediate' theory, in strong debate. Here, we report on a novel sense codon reassignment in Pachysolen tannophilus, a yeast related to the Pichiaceae. By generating proteomics data and using tRNA sequence comparisons we show that in Pachysolen CUG codons are translated as alanine and not as the universal leucine. The polyphyly of the CUG-\ndecoding tRNAs in yeasts is best explained by a tRNA loss driven codon reassignment mechanism. Loss of the CUG-tRNA in the ancient yeast is followed by gradual\ndecrease of respective codons and subsequent codon capture by tRNAs whose anticodon is outside the aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase recognition region. Our\nhypothesis applies to all nuclear genetic code alterations and provides several testable predictions. We anticipate more codon reassignments to be uncovered in existing and upcoming genome projects.", u'Over the past decade neuroscience has been attacking the problem of cognition with increasing vigor. Yet, what exactly is cognition, beyond a general signifier of anything seemingly complex the brain does? Here, we briefly review attempts to define, describe, explain, build, enhance and experience cognition. We highlight perspectives including psychology, molecular biology, computation, dynamical systems, machine learning, behavior and phenomenology. This survey of the landscape reveals not a clear target for explanation but a pluralistic and evolving scene with diverse opportunities for grounding future research. We argue that rather than getting to the bottom of it, over the next century, by deconstructing and redefining cognition, neuroscience will and should expand rather than merely reduce our concept of the mind.', u"When sequencing an ancient DNA sample from a hominin fossil, DNA from present-day humans involved in excavation and extraction will be sequenced along with the endogenous material. This type of contamination is problematic for downstream analyses as it will introduce a bias towards the population of the contaminating individual(s). Quantifying the extent of contamination is a crucial step as it allows researchers to account for possible biases that may arise in downstream genetic analyses.  Here, we present an MCMC algorithm to co-estimate the contamination rate, sequencing error rate and demographic parameters - including drift times and admixture rates - for an ancient nuclear genome obtained from human remains, when the putative contaminating DNA comes from present-day humans. We assume we have a large panel representing the putative contaminant population (e.g. European, East Asian or African). The method is implemented in a C++ program called 'Demographic Inference  with Contamination and Error' (DICE). We applied it to simulations and genome data from ancient Neanderthals and modern humans. With reasonable levels of genome sequence coverage (>3X), we find we can recover accurate estimates of all these parameters, even when the contamination rate is as high as 50%.", u'How should fitness be measured to determine which phenotype or "strategy" is uninvadable when evolution occurs in subdivided populations subject to local demographic and environmental heterogeneity? Several invasion fitness measures, such as basic reproductive number, lifetime dispersal success of a local lineage, or inclusive fitness have been proposed to address this question, but the relationships between them and their generality remains unclear. Here, we ascertain uninvadability (all mutant strategies always go extinct) in terms of the growth rate of a mutant allele arising as a single copy in a population. We show from this growth rate that uninvadability is equivalently characterized by at least three conceptually distinct invasion fitness measures: (i) lineage fitness, giving the average personal fitness of a randomly sampled mutant lineage member; (ii) inclusive fitness, giving a reproductive value weighted average of the direct fitness cost and relatedness weighted indirect fitness benefits accruing to a randomly sampled mutant lineage member; and (iii) three types of reproductive numbers, giving lifetime success of a local lineage. Our analysis connects approaches that have been deemed different, generalizes the exact version of inclusive fitness to class-structured populations, and provides a biological interpretation of selection on a mutant allele under arbitrary strength of selection.', u'The location and topography of the first three visual field maps in the human brain, V1-V3, are well agreed upon and routinely measured across most laboratories. The position of 4th visual field map, "hV4", is identified with less consistency in the neuroimaging literature.  Using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) data, we describe landmarks to help identify the position and borders of hV4. The data consist of anatomical images, visualized as cortical meshes to highlight the sulcal and gyral patterns, and functional data obtained from retinotopic mapping experiments, visualized as eccentricity and angle maps on the cortical surface. \n\nSeveral features of the functional and anatomical data can be found across nearly all subjects and are helpful for identifying the location and extent of the hV4 map. The medial border of hV4 is shared with the posterior, ventral portion of V3, and is marked by a retinotopic representation of the upper vertical meridian. The anterior border of hV4 is shared with the VO-1 map, and falls on a retinotopic representation of the peripheral visual field, usually coincident with the posterior transverse collateral sulcus. The ventro-lateral edge of the map typically falls on the inferior occipital gyrus, where functional MRI artifacts often obscure the retinotopic data. Finally, we demonstrate the continuity of retinotopic parameters between hV4 and its neighbors; hV4 and V3v contain iso-eccentricity lines in register, whereas hV4 and VO-1 contain iso-polar angle lines in register. \n\nTogether, the multiple constraints allow for a consistent identification of the hV4 map across most human subjects.', u'Stochastic phenotype switching has been suggested to play a beneficial role in microbial populations by leading to the division of labour among cells, or ensuring that at least some of the population survives an unexpected change in environmental conditions. Here we use a computational model to investigate an alternative possible function of stochastic phenotype switching - as a way to adapt more quickly even in a static environment. We show that when a genetic mutation causes a population to become less fit, switching to an alternative phenotype with higher fitness (growth rate) may give the population enough time to develop compensatory mutations that increase the fitness again. The possibility of switching phenotypes can reduce the time to adaptation by orders of magnitude if the \u201cfitness valley\u201d caused by the deleterious mutation is deep enough. Our work has important implications for the emergence of antibiotic-resistant bacteria. In line with recent experimental findings we hypothesise that switching to a slower growing but less sensitive phenotype helps bacteria to develop resistance by exploring a larger set of beneficial mutations while avoiding deleterious ones.', u'Fossil pollen assemblages are widely used to reconstruct past vegetation community composition at time scales ranging from centuries to millennia. These reconstructions often are based on the observed relationships between the proportions of plant taxa in the source vegetation and the proportions of the corresponding pollen types in pollen assemblages collected from surface sediments. Pollen-vegetation models rely upon parameters whose values typically are assumed to be stable through time, but this assumption is largely unevaluated, due in part to the rarity of comprehensive forest data, particularly for earlier time periods.\n\nHere we present a new dataset of early settlement-era pollen records for the upper Midwest of North America and combine it with three other pollen and forest composition datasets to assess the stability of the relationship between relative pollen composition and relative abundances of tree genera for two time periods: immediately prior to Euro-American settlement, and the late 20th Century. Over this time interval, Euro-American settlement resulted in widespread forest clearance for agriculture and logging, producing major changes to forest composition and structure and the pollen assemblages produced by these forests. These major changes provide an opportunity to test the constancy of the relationship between pollen and forest vegetation during a period of large vegetation change. Pollen-vegetation relationships are modeled, using a Generalized Linear Model, for thirteen upper Midwestern tree genera.\n\nWe find that estimates of pollen source radius for the gridded mesoscale data are 25-85 kilometers, consistent with prior studies. Pollen-vegetation relationships are significantly altered for several genera: Fagus, Betula, Tsuga, Quercus, Pinus, and Picea (p < 0.05). The use of contemporary pollen-vegetation relationships to model settlement era community composition significantly under-predicts the presence of Fagus, Betula, Tsuga, Quercus and Picea at all tree densities. Pinus is over-predicted at low relative proportions (<25%), but under-predicted at greater abundances. The divergence of pollen-vegetation relationships appears to be greatest for late-successional taxa characterized by high shade tolerance and low fire tolerance, although the statistical power is low for this analysis. \nHence, the ongoing rapid changes in land use and ecological communities associated with the Anthropocene affect not just our ability to make confident ecological forecasts for the future, but can also modify our inferences about the past. In the Anthropocene era, which is characterized by its rapidly changing vegetation and climates, paleoecology must move from its traditional   reliance on spatial calibration datasets assumed to represent a single "present". Instead, when possible, paleoecologists should develop calibration datasets of pollen and forest composition that are distributed across major vegetation changes in time and space. \n\nMultitemporal calibration datasets are increasingly possible given the growing length and availability of vegetation observational data and will enable paleoecologists to better understand the complex processes governing pollen-vegetation relationships and make better-informed reconstructions of past vegetation dynamics.', u"We study geometric properties of horopters defined by the criterion of equality of angle. Our primary goal is to derive the precise geometry for anatomically correct horopters. When eyes fixate on points along a curve in the horizontal visual plane for which the vergence remains constant, this curve is the larger arc of a circle connecting the eyes' rotation centers. This isovergence circle is known as the Vieth-M&uumlller circle. We show that, along the isovergence circular arc, there is an infinite family of horizontal horopters formed by circular arcs connecting the nodal points. These horopters intersect at the point of symmetric convergence. We prove that the family of 3D geometric horopters consists of two perpendicular components. The first component consists of the horizontal horopters parametrized by vergence, the point of the isovergence circle, and the choice of the nodal point location. The second component is formed by straight lines parametrized by vergence. Each of these straight lines is perpendicular to the visual plane and passes through the point of symmetric convergence. Finally, we evaluate the difference between the geometric horopter and the Vieth-M&uumlller circle for typical near fixation distances and discuss its possible significance for depth discrimination and other related functions of vision that make use of disparity processing.", u'Structural variation (SV) represents a major source of differences between individual human genomes and has been linked to disease phenotypes. However, current studies on SVs have failed to provide a global view of the full spectrum of SVs and to integrate them into reference panels of genetic variation.\nHere, we analyzed 769 individuals from 250 Dutch families, whole genome sequenced at an average coverage of 14.5x, and provide a haplotype-resolved map of 1.9 million genome variants across 9 different variant classes, including novel forms of complex indels and retrotransposition-mediated insertions of mobile elements and processed RNAs. A large proportion of the structural variants (36%) were discovered in the size range of 21 to 100bp, a size range which remains under reported in many studies. Furthermore, we detected 4 megabases of novel sequence, extending the human pangenome with 11 new active transcripts. Finally, we show 191 known, trait-associated SNPs to be in strong linkage disequilibrium with a structural variant and demonstrate that our panel facilitates accurate imputation of SVs into unrelated individuals, which is essential for future genome-wide association studies.', u'The complexity of cancer signaling networks limits the efficacy of most single agent treatments and brings about challenges in identifying effective combinatorial therapies. Using chronic active B cell receptor (BCR) signaling in diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL) as a model system, we established a computational framework to optimize combinatorial therapy in silico. We constructed a detailed kinetic model of the BCR signaling network, which captured the known complex crosstalk between the NF\u03baB, ERK and AKT pathways; and multiple feedback loops. Combining this signaling model with a data-derived tumor growth model we predicted viability responses of many single drug and drug combinations that are in agreement with experimental data. Under this framework, we exhaustively predicted and ranked the efficacy and synergism of all possible combinatorial inhibitions of eleven currently targetable kinases in the BCR signaling network. Our work established a detailed kinetic model of the core BCR signaling network and provides the means to explore the large space of possible drug combinations.', u'Background: Gene-gene and gene-environment interactions are known to contribute significantly to variation of complex phenotypes in model organisms. However, their identification in human associations studies remains challenging for myriad reasons. In the case of gene-gene interactions, the large number of potential interacting pairs presents computational, multiple hypothesis correction, and other statistical power issues. In the case of gene-environment interactions, the lack of consistently measured environmental covariates in most disease studies precludes searching for interactions and creates difficulties for replicating studies. \n\nResults: In this work, we develop a new statistical approach to address these issues that leverages genetic ancestry (\u03b8) in admixed populations. We applied our method to gene expression and methylation data from African American and Latino admixed individuals, identifying nine interactions that were significant at a threshold of p < 5e-8. We replicate two of these interactions and show that a third has previously been identified in a genetic interaction screen for rheumatoid arthritis.  \n\nConclusion: We show that genetic ancestry can be a useful proxy for unknown and unmeasured environmental exposures with which it is correlated', u"Organismal functions are size-dependent whenever body surfaces supply body volumes. Larger organisms can develop strongly folded internal surfaces for enhanced diffusion, but in many cases areas cannot be folded so that their enlargement is constrained by anatomy,  presenting a problem for larger animals. Here, we study the allometry of adhesive pad area in 225 climbing animal species, covering more than seven orders of magnitude in weight. Across all taxa, adhesive pad area showed extreme positive allometry and scaled with weight, implying a 200-fold increase of relative pad area from mites to geckos. However, allometric scaling coefficients for pad area systematically decreased with taxonomic level, and were close to isometry when evolutionary history was accounted for, indicating that the substantial anatomical changes required to achieve increases in relative pad area are limited by phylogenetic constraints. Using a comparative phylogenetic approach, we found that the departure from isometry is almost exclusively caused by large differences in size-corrected pad area between arthropods and vertebrates. To mitigate the expected decrease of weight-specific adhesion within closely related taxa where pad area scaled close to isometry, data for several taxa suggest that the pads' adhesive strength increased for larger animals. The combination of adjustments in relative pad area for distantly related taxa and changes in adhesive strength for closely related groups helps explain how climbing with adhesive pads has evolved in animals varying over seven orders of magnitude in body weight. Our results illustrate the size limits of adhesion-based climbing, with profound implications for large-scale bio-inspired adhesives.", u'Background: Population admixture has been a common phenomenon in human, animals and plants, and plays a very important role in shaping individual genetic architecture and population genetic diversity. Inference of population admixture, however, is challenging and typically relies on in silico simulation. We are aware of the lack of a computer tool for such a purpose, especially a simulator is not available for generating data under various and complex admixture scenarios. \nResults: Here we developed a forward-time simulator (AdmixSim) under standard Wright Fisher model, which can simulate admixed populations with: 1) multiple ancestral populations; 2) multiple waves of admixture events; 3) fluctuating population size; and 4) fluctuating admixture proportions. Results of analysis of the simulated data by AdmixSim show that our simulator can fast and accurately generate data resemble real one. We included in AdmixSim all possible parameters that allow users to modify and simulate any kinds of admixture scenarios easily so that it is very flexible. AdmixSim records recombination break points and trace of each chromosomal segment from different ancestral populations, with which users can easily do further analysis and comparative studies with empirical data. \nConclusions: AdmixSim is expected to facilitate the study of population admixture by providing a simulation framework with flexible implementation of various admixture models and parameters.', u'Motivation: Read-based phasing deduces the haplotypes of an individual from sequencing reads that cover multiple variants, while genetic phasing takes only genotypes as input and applies the rules of Mendelian inheritance to infer haplotypes within a pedigree of individuals. Combining both into an approach that uses these two independent sources of information -- reads and pedigree -- has the potential to deliver results better than each individually.\nResults: We provide a theoretical framework combining read-based phasing with genetic haplotyping, and describe a fixed-parameter algorithm and its implementation for finding an optimal solution. We show that leveraging reads of related individuals jointly in this way yields more phased variants and at a higher accuracy than when phased separately, both in simulated and real data. Coverages as low as 2x for each member of a trio yield haplotypes that are as accurate as when analyzed separately at 15x coverage per individual.', u"Introduction:\nA cell's epigenome arises from interactions among regulatory factors --- transcription factors, histone modifications, and other DNA-associated proteins --- co-localized at particular genomic regions. Identifying the network of interactions among regulatory factors, the chromatin network, is of paramount importance in understanding epigenome regulation.\n\nMethods:\nWe developed a novel computational approach, ChromNet, to infer the chromatin network from a set of ChIP-seq datasets. ChromNet has four key features that enable its use on large collections of ChIP-seq data. First, rather than using pairwise co-localization of factors along the genome, ChromNet identifies conditional dependence relationships that better discriminate direct and indirect interactions. Second, our novel statistical technique, the group graphical model, improves inference of conditional dependence on highly correlated datasets. Such datasets are common because some transcription factors form a complex and the same transcription factor is often assayed in different laboratories or cell types. Third, ChromNet's computationally efficient method and the group graphical model enable the learning of a joint network across all cell types, which greatly increases the scope of possible interactions. We have shown that this results in a significantly higher fold enrichment for validated protein interactions. Fourth, ChromNet provides an efficient way to identify the genomic context that drives a particular network edge, which provides a more comprehensive understanding of regulatory factor interactions.\n\nResults:\nWe applied ChromNet to all available ChIP-seq data from the ENCODE Project, consisting of 1451 ChIP-seq datasets, which revealed previously known physical interactions better than alternative approaches. ChromNet also identified previously unreported regulatory factor interactions. We experimentally validated one of these interactions, between the MYC and HCFC1 transcription factors.\n\nDiscussion:\nChromNet provides a useful tool for understanding the interactions among regulatory factors and identifying novel interactions. We have provided an interactive web-based visualization of the full ENCODE chromatin network and the ability to incorporate custom datasets at http://chromnet.cs.washington.edu.", u'Many classical ecological and evolutionary theoretical frameworks posit that competition between species is an important selective force. For example, in adaptive radiations, resource competition between evolving lineages plays a role in driving phenotypic diversification and exploration of novel ecological space. Nevertheless, current models of trait evolution fit to phylogenies and comparative datasets are not designed to incorporate the effect of competition. The most advanced models in this direction are diversity-dependent models where evolutionary rates depend on lineage diversity. However, these models still treat changes in traits in one branch as independent of the value of traits on other branches, thus ignoring the effect of species similarity on trait evolution. Here, we consider a model where the evolutionary dynamics of traits involved in interspecific interactions are influenced by species similarity in trait values and where we can specify which lineages are in sympatry. We develop a maximum-likelihood based approach to fit this model to combined phylogenetic and phenotypic data. Using simulations, we demonstrate that the approach accurately estimates the simulated parameter values across a broad range of parameter space. Additionally, we develop tools for specifying the biogeographic context in which trait evolution occurs. In order to compare models, we also apply these biogeographic methods to specify which lineages interact sympatrically for two diversity- dependent models. Finally, we fit these various models to morphological data from a classical adaptive radiation (Greater Antillean Anolis lizards). We show that models that account for competition and geography perform better than other models. The matching competition model is an important new tool for studying the influence of interspecific interactions, in particular competition, on phenotypic evolution. More generally, it constitutes a step toward a better integration of interspecific interactions in many ecological and evolutionary processes.', u'Tissue culture propagation system was developed for Aristolochia tagala, a threatened medicinal plant, using apical bud explants. The most effective medium was found to be MS medium supplemented with BAP (3 \u03bcM), KIN (0.5 \u03bcM) and activated charcoal (0.1%). The addition of activated charcoal helped in circumventing the problem of polyphenol exudation from the explants which hampered the regeneration of adventitious shoots. A maximum of 12.6 shoots were obtained on average from the apical bud explants after 25 days of inoculation. Well developed shoots were rooted on MS medium supplemented with indole acetic acid (1.5 \u03bcM), Kinetin (1.5 \u03bc M) and 6-benzylaminopurine (0.5 \u03bcM). Regenerated shoots from the apical buds were successfully rooted and acclimated to greenhouse conditions. Qualitative and quantitative analysis of bioactive compounds was done at various stages of development, so as establish the effect of culture conditions on the production of bioactive components. Comparisons were made between three types of plant material from the same clone: leaves from field-grown plant, leaves from in vitro apical bud cultures and leaf derived callus. It was observed that the leaf derived callus showed the presence of components which were not there in the in vivo leaves, suggesting the influence of in vitro developmental conditions.', u'In 2011, the "ADHD-200 Global Competition" was held with the aim of identifying biomarkers of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder from resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) and structural MRI (s-MRI) data collected on 973 individuals. Statisticians and computer scientists were potentially the most qualified for the machine learning aspect of the competition, but generally lacked the specialized skills to implement the necessary steps of data preparation for rs-fMRI. Realizing this barrier to entry, the Neuro Bureau prospectively collaborated with all competitors by preprocessing the data and sharing these results at the Neuroimaging Informatics Tools and Resources Clearinghouse (NITRC) (\\url{http://www.nitrc.org/frs/?group_id=383}). This "ADHD-200 Preprocessed" release included multiple analytical pipelines to cater to different philosophies of data analysis. The processed derivatives included denoised and registered 4D fMRI volumes, regional time series extracted from brain parcellations, maps of 10 intrinsic connectivity networks, fractional amplitude of low frequency fluctuation, and regional homogeneity, along with grey matter density maps. The data was used by several teams who competed in the ADHD-200 Global Competition, including the winning entry by a group of biostaticians. To the best of our knowledge, the ADHD-200 Preprocessed release was the first large public resource of preprocessed resting-state fMRI and structural MRI data, and remains to this day the only resource featuring a battery of alternative processing paths.', u'Motivation: The alignment of sequencing reads to a transcriptome is a common and important step in many RNA-seq analysis tasks. When aligning RNA-seq reads directly to a transcriptome (as is common in the de novo setting or when a trusted reference annotation is available), care must be taken to report the potentially large number of multi-mapping locations per read. This can pose a substantial computational burden for existing aligners, and can considerably slow downstream analysis.\n\nResults: We introduce a novel concept,  quasi-mapping,  and an efficient algorithm implementing this approach for mapping sequencing reads to a transcriptome. By attempting only to report the potential loci of origin of a sequencing read, and not the base-to-base alignment by which it derives from the reference, RapMap --- our tool implementing quasi-mapping --- is capable of mapping sequencing reads to a target transcriptome substantially faster than existing alignment tools. The algorithm we employ to implement quasi-mapping  uses  several  efficient  data  structures  and  takes  advantage  of  the  special  structure  of shared  sequence  prevalent  in  transcriptomes  to  rapidly  provide  highly-accurate  mapping  information. We  demonstrate  how  quasi-mapping  can  be  successfully  applied  to  the  problems  of  transcript-level quantification from RNA-seq reads and the clustering of contigs from de novo assembled transcriptomes into biologically-meaningful groups.\n\nAvailability: RapMap is implemented in C++11 and is available as open-source software, under GPL v3, at https://github.com/COMBINE-lab/RapMap.', u'The "priming effect", in which addition of labile substances changes the remineralization rate of recalcitrant organic matter, has been intensively studied in soils, but is less well-documented in aquatic systems. We investigated the extent to which additions of nutrients or labile organic carbon could influence remineralization rates of 14C-labeled, microbially-degraded, phytoplankton-derived organic matter (OM) in microcosms inoculated with microbial communities drawn from Groves Creek Estuary in coastal Georgia, USA. We found that amendment with labile protein plus phosphorus increased remineralization rates of degraded, phytoplankton-derived OM by up to 100%, whereas acetate slightly decreased remineralization rates relative to an unamended control. Addition of ammonium and phosphate induced a smaller effect, whereas addition of ammonium alone had no effect. Counterintuitively, alkaline phosphatase activities increased in response to the addition of protein under P-replete conditions, indicating that production of enzymes unrelated to the labile priming compound may be a mechanism for the priming effect. The observed priming effect was transient: after 36 days of incubation roughly the same quantity of organic carbon had been mineralized in all treatments including no-addition controls. This timescale is on the order of the typical hydrologic residence times of well-flushed estuaries suggesting that priming in estuaries has the potential to influence whether OC is remineralized in situ or exported to the coastal ocean.', u'RNA-sequencing of single-cells enables characterization of transcriptional heterogeneity in seemingly homogenous cell populations. In this study we propose and apply a novel method, ISOform-Patterns (ISOP), based on mixture modeling, to characterize the expression patterns of pairs of isoforms from the same gene in single-cell isoform-level expression data. We define six principal patterns of isoform expression relationships and introduce the concept of differential pattern analysis. We applied ISOP for analysis of single-cell RNA-sequencing data from a breast cancer cell line, with replication in two independent datasets. In the primary dataset we detected and assigned pattern type of 16562 isoform-pairs from 4929 genes. Our results showed that 78% of the isoform pairs displayed a mutually exclusive expression pattern, 14% of the isoform pairs displayed bimodal isoform preference and 8% isoform pairs displayed isoform preference. 26% of the isoform-pair patterns were significant, while remaining isoform-pair patterns can be understood as effects of transcriptional bursting, drop-out and biological heterogeneity. 32% of genes discovered through differential pattern analysis were novel and not detected by differential expression analysis. ISOP provides a novel approach for characterization of isoform-level expression in single-cell populations. Our results reveal a common occurrence of isoform-level preference, commitment and heterogeneity in single-cell populations.', u'A major goal of speciation research is to reveal the genomic signatures that accompany the speciation process. Genome scans are routinely used to explore genome-wide variation and identify highly differentiated loci that may contribute to ecological divergence, but they do not incorporate spatial, phenotypic, or environmental data that might enhance outlier detection. Geographic cline analysis provides a potential framework for integrating diverse forms of data in a spatially-explicit framework, but it has not been used to study genome-wide patterns of divergence. Aided by a first-draft genome assembly, we combine an FCT scan and geographic cline analysis to characterize patterns of genome-wide divergence between divergent pollination ecotypes of Mimulus aurantiacus. FCT analysis of 58,872 SNPs generated via RADseq revealed little ecotypic differentiation (mean FCT = 0.041), though a small number of loci were moderately to highly diverged. Consistent with our previous results from the gene MaMyb2, which contributes to differences in flower color, 130 loci have cline shapes that recapitulate the spatial pattern of trait divergence, suggesting that they reside in or near the genomic regions that contribute to pollinator isolation. In the narrow hybrid zone between the ecotypes, extensive admixture among individuals and low linkage disequlibrium between markers indicate that outlier loci are scattered throughout the genome, rather than being restricted to one or a few regions. In addition to revealing the genomic consequences of ecological divergence in this system, we discuss how geographic cline analysis is a powerful but under-utilized framework for studying genome-wide patterns of divergence.', u"Mining large datasets using machine learning approaches often leads to models that are hard to interpret and not amenable to the generation of hypotheses that can be experimentally tested. Finding 'actionable knowledge' is becoming more important, but also more challenging as datasets grow in size and complexity. We present 'Logic Optimization for Binary Input to Continuous Output' (LOBICO), a computational approach that infers small and easily interpretable logic models of binary input features that explain a binarized continuous output variable. Although the continuous output variable is binarized prior to optimization, the continuous information is retained to find the optimal logic model. Applying LOBICO to a large cancer cell line panel, we find that logic combinations of multiple mutations are more predictive of drug response than single gene predictors. Importantly, we show that the use of the continuous information leads to robust and more accurate logic models. LOBICO is formulated as an integer programming problem, which enables rapid computation on large datasets. Moreover, LOBICO implements the ability to uncover logic models around predefined operating points in terms of sensitivity and specificity. As such, it represents an important step towards practical application of interpretable logic models.", u'Molecular signatures can improve tumor stage identification, which is essential for therapy selection and patient prognosis. These signatures are generally based on the expression changes that occur during cancer progression, which are related to the activation of specific aggressive phenotypes. However, it is not yet known whether specific transcript isoform expression patterns are informative for clinical stage and survival. Using information theory and machine learning methods, we integrated RNA sequencing and clinical data from The Cancer Genome Atlas project to perform the first systematic analysis of the predictive potential of transcript relative abundances for stage and prognosis in 12 solid tumors. Additionally, we built predictive models for breast tumors with ER positive and negative status and for melanoma tumors with proliferative and invasive phenotypes. Tumor-specific models based of transcript isoforms accurately separate early from late stage and metastatic from non-metastatic tumors, and are predictive of survival in patients with undetermined stage. These models show comparable, sometimes better, accuracies compared with models based on gene expression or alternative splicing events, do not correlate with stromal or immune cell content of the samples, and indicate possible functional alterations in the involved genes. Additionally, we describe the transcriptome differences in breast tumors according to estrogen receptor status, and in melanoma tumors according to invasive or proliferative phenotypes, and derive accurate predictive models of stage and survival for each subtype. Our analyses reveal new signatures that characterize tumor phenotypes and their progression independently of gene expression. Knowledge about the relative abundance of transcript isoforms in tumors can help predicting stage and clinical outcome, and thereby contribute towards current strategies of precision cancer medicine.', u'Background\n Currently quantitative RNA-Seq methods are pushed to work with increasingly small starting amounts of RNA that require PCR amplification to generate libraries.\nHowever, it is unclear how much noise or bias amplification introduces and how this effects precision and accuracy of RNA quantification. \nTo assess the effects of amplification, reads that originated from the same RNA molecule (PCR-duplicates) need to be identified. \nComputationally, read duplicates are defined via their mapping position, which does not distinguish PCR- from natural duplicates that are bound to occur for highly transcribed RNAs.\nHence, it is unclear how to treat duplicate reads and how important it is to reduce PCR amplification experimentally.\nHere, we generate and analyse RNA-Seq datasets that were prepared with three different protocols (Smart-Seq, TruSeq and UMI-seq). \nWe find that a large fraction of computationally identified read duplicates can be explained by sampling and fragmentation bias.\nConsequently, the computational removal of duplicates does not improve accuracy, power or false discovery rates, but can actually worsen them. \nEven when duplicates are experimentally identified by unique molecular identifiers (UMIs), power and false discovery rate are only mildly improved. \nHowever, we do find that power does improve with fewer PCR amplification cycles across datasets and that early barcoding of samples and hence PCR amplification in one reaction can restore this loss of power.\nConclusions\nComputational removal of read duplicates is not recommended for differential expression analysis. \nHowever, the pooling of samples as made possible by the early barcoding of the UMI-protocol leads to an appreciable increase in the power to detect differentially expressed genes.', u'Riparian ecotones are aquatic-terrestrial interfaces integrating climate and nutrient fluxes across landscape physical elements. Despite experiencing severe nutrient and climate constraints, high elevation lakes host highly variable riparian ecosystems. With climate change rapidly encroaching in the alpine biome, it is increasingly vital to understand how natural ecosystem balance is sustained through multi-scale interactions between lake and catchment before major deleterious effects are experienced.\nA total of 189 glacial origin lakes and ponds in the Central Pyrenees was surveyed to test how lake, catchment, and geographical scale factors interact at different scales to drive riparian vegetation composition. Secondly, we aimed to evaluate how underlying catchment factors influence the formation of riparian plant communities and their potential sensitivity to environmental change. At each lake, plant taxonomic composition was assessed and samples of water and sediment were analysed for major and trace element composition. Ecosystem-relevant local and catchment-scale factors were estimated together with geolocation, and their influence on vegetation was modelled using the logic of Fuzzy Set Ordination.\nCatchment hydrology-hydrodynamics was the main driver of riparian vegetation structure, followed by topography formation and geomorphology. Although the study area extended over a relatively small geographic extent, the lakes were riparian surface was able to capture the transitional gradient between large pan-European climatic zones. Lake sediment Mg and Pb and water Mn and Fe are reliable indicators of riparian vegetation composition, likely reflecting bedrock geology, and hydrology-driven redox fluctuations in the riparian zone. Community analysis identified four riparian groups, characteristic to (a) damp environments, (b) snow bed-silicate bedrock, (c) wet heath, and (d) limestone bedrock. Their sensitivity to geographic and ecotopic gradients are further evaluated. \nWith climate change threatening major shifts in the alpine biome, the findings provide critical information on how natural riparian ecosystem balance is maintained by multi-scale interactions inside and outside the catchment, and provide invaluable baseline data for better predicting future responses to environmental changes.', u'In low nutrient alpine lakes, the littoral zone is the most productive part of the ecosystem, and it is a biodiversity hotspot. It is not entirely clear how the scale and physical heterogeneity of surrounding catchment, its ecological composition, and larger landscape gradients work together to sustain littoral communities.\nA total of 114 alpine lakes in the central Pyrenees were surveyed to evaluate the functional connectivity between catchment physical and ecological elements and littoral zoobenthos, and ascertain their effect on community formation. At each lake, the zoobenthic composition was assessed together with geolocation (altitude, latitude and longitude), catchment hydrodynamics, geomorphology, topography, riparian vegetation composition, the presence of trout and frogs, water pH and conductivity.\nUni- and multidimensional fuzzy set ordination models integrating benthic biota and environmental variables revealed that at geographical scale longitude surpassed altitude in its effect on the littoral ecosystem, reflecting a sharp transition between Atlantic and Mediterranean bioregions. Topography (through its control of catchment type, summer snow coverage, and connectivity with other lakes) was the largest catchment-scale driver, followed by hydrodynamics (waterbody size, type and inflow/outflow volumes). Locally, riparian plant composition significantly related to littoral community structure, richness and morphotype diversity. These variables, directly and indirectly, create habitats for aquatic and terrestrial stages of invertebrates, and control nutrient and water cycles. Three ecologically diverse associations characterised distinct lake sets. Vertebrate predation, water conductivity and pH (broad measures of total dissolved ions/nutrients and their bioavailability) had no major influence on littoral taxa.\nThe work provides exhaustive information from relatively pristine sites, which unveil a strong connection between littoral ecosystem and catchment heterogeneity at scales beyond the local environment. This underpins their role as sensors of local and large-scale environmental changes, and can be used to evaluate further impacts.', u'Implantable invasive neuronal interfaces to the brain are an important keystone for many interesting future medical applications. However, entering this field of research is difficult since such an implant requires components from many different fields of technology. Beside the required amplifiers, analog-digital-converters and data processing, the complete avoidance of wires is important because it reduces the risk of infection and prevents long-term bio-mechanical problems. Thus, means for wireless transmitting data and energy are also necessary.\n\nWe present a module, containing the necessary components for wireless data transfer and inductive powering for such implantable neural systems, and its base station. They are completely built of commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) components and the design files are available as Open Hardware / Open Source. The data is transmitted via Microsemi ZL70102 transceivers and custom Tx/Rx antennas for bidirectional communication using frequencies in the MICS band, with a maximal data rate of 515 kbit/s. The energy is transmitted via a wireless inductive energy-link based on the Qi standard. On the implant site a handwound litz wire coil harvests energy from the magnetic field and delivers, over a short distance, more than enough inductive power to the fully implantable unit.\n\nBased on this wireless module we also present a fully wireless neuronal implant for simultaneously measuring electrocorticographic (ECoG) signals at 128 locations from the surface of the brain. The implant is based on a flexible printed circuit board and is aimed to be implanted under the skull. The application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC) was designed in-house and allows to adapt the data processing of the implant to changing user-defined parameters.', u"Analysis of organism-specific interactomes has yielded novel insights into cellular function and coordination, understanding of pathology, and identification of markers and drug targets. Genes, however, can exhibit varying levels of cell-type specificity in their expression, and their coordinated expression manifests in tissue-specific function and pathology. Tissue-specific/ selective interaction mechanisms have significant applications in drug discovery, as they are more likely to reveal drug targets. Furthermore, tissue-specific transcription factors (tsTFs) are significantly implicated in human disease, including cancers. Finally, disease genes and protein complexes have the tendency to be differentially-expressed in tissues in which defects cause pathology. These observations motivate construction of refined tissue-specific interactomes from organism-specific interactomes.\n\n\nWe present a novel technique for constructing human tissue-specific interactomes. Using a variety of validation tests (ESEA, GO Enrichment, Disease-Gene Subnetwork Compactness), we show that our proposed approach significantly outperforms state of the art techniques. Finally, using case studies of Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, we show that tissue-specific interactomes derived from our study can be used to construct pathways implicated in pathology, and demonstrate the use of these pathways in identifying novel targets.", u'The left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC) has been linked to the accumulation and comparison of perceptual evidence for decision making independent of sensory and response modalities. We investigated the possible neural dynamics underlying the role of dlPFC in perceptual decision making, through a combination of noninvasive neurostimulation in humans and computational modeling. First, we used an established and biophysically realistic model of a decision making network that employs competition between neural populations. Simulation of depolarizing noninvasive brain stimulation in this model decreased decision time, while hyperpolarizing stimulation increased it. This behavioral effect was caused by an increase in the rate of neural activity integration via recurrent connections, as well as changes in the susceptibility of the network to noisy background inputs which modulated population firing rate differences prior to the onset of the stimulus. These pre-stimulus differences biased the response to one or the other option, thus speeding or slowing decisions.\nWe then tested these model predictions in healthy participants performing a perceptual decision making task while receiving transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) over the left dlPFC, analogous to our simulated network stimulation. We found a striking match between model predictions and experimental results: depolarizing (inward) currents reduced and hyperpolarizing (outward) currents increased response times, but accuracy remained unaffected. Our results provide interventional evidence for the role of left dlPFC in perceptual decision making, and suggest that this region integrates and compares sensory evidence through competitive interactions between pyramidal cell populations which are selective for each response option. Mechanistically, our model suggests that stimulation of this region changes the rate at which evidence can be accumulated through recurrent activity and its susceptibility to background noise. More generally, our approach demonstrates that a linkage between computational modeling and noninvasive brain stimulation allows mechanistic accounts of brain function to be causally tested.', u'A transposition is an operation that exchanges two adjacent blocks in a permutation. A prefix transposition always moves a prefix of the permutation to another location. In this article, we use a data structure, called the permutation tree, to improve the running time of the best known approximation algorithm (with approximation ratio 2) for sorting a permutation by prefix transpositions. By using the permutation tree, we improve the running time of the 2-approximation algorithm to O(n log n).', u'In clinical practice and biomedical research populations are often divided categorically into distinct racial and ethnic groups. In reality, these categories comprise diverse groups with highly heterogeneous histories, cultures, traditions, religions, as well as social and environmental exposures. While the factors captured by these categories contribute to clinical practice and biomedical research, the use of race/ethnicity is widely debated. As a response to this debate, genetic ancestry has been suggested as a complement or alternative to this categorization. However, few studies have examined the effect of genetic ancestry, racial/ethnic identity, and environmental exposures on biological processes. Herein, we examine the contribution of self-identification within ethnicity, genetic ancestry, and environmental exposures on epigenetic modification of DNA methylation, a phenomenon affected by both genetic and environmental factors. We typed over 450,000 variably methylated CpG sites in primary whole blood of 573 individuals of Mexican and Puerto Rican descent who also had high-density genotype data. We found that methylation levels at a large number of CpG sites were significantly associated with ethnicity even when adjusting for genetic ancestry. In addition, we found an enrichment of ethnicity-associated sites amongst loci previously associated with environmental and social exposures. Interestingly, one of the strongest associated sites is driven by the Duffy Null blood type variant, demonstrating a new function of the locus in lymphocytes. Overall, the methylation changes associated with race/ethnicity, driven by both genes and environment, highlight the importance of measuring and accounting for both self-identified race/ethnicity and genetic ancestry in clinical and biomedical studies and the benefits of studying diverse populations.', u'Adaptation depends on the rates, effects, and interactions of many mutations. We analyzed 264 genomes from 12 Escherichia coli populations to characterize their dynamics over 50,000 generations. The trajectories for genome evolution in populations that retained the ancestral mutation rate fit a model where most fixed mutations are beneficial, the fraction of beneficial mutations declines as fitness rises, and neutral mutations accumulate at a constant rate. We also compared these populations to lines evolved under a mutation-accumulation regime that minimizes selection. Nonsynonymous mutations, intergenic mutations, insertions, and deletions are overrepresented in the long-term populations, supporting the inference that most fixed mutations are favored by selection. These results illuminate the shifting balance of forces that govern genome evolution in populations adapting to a new environment.', u'Sexual transmission of Ebola virus disease (EVD) 6 months after onset of symptoms has been recently documented, and Ebola virus RNA has been detected in semen of survivors up to 9 months after onset of symptoms. As countries affected by the 2013-2015 epidemic in West Africa, by far the largest to date, are declared free of Ebola virus disease (EVD), it remains unclear what threat is posed by rare sexual transmission events that could arise from survivors. We devised a novel mathematical model that includes sexual transmission from convalescent survivors: a SEICR (susceptible-exposed-infectious-convalescent-recovered) transmission model. We fitted the model to weekly incidence of EVD cases from the 2014-2015 epidemic in Sierra Leone. Sensitivity analyses and Monte Carlo simulations showed that a 0.1% per sex act transmission probability and a 3-month convalescent period (the two key unknown parameters of sexual transmission) create very few additional cases, but would extend the epidemic by 83 days [95% CI: 68 - 98 days] on average. Strikingly, a 6-month convalescent period extended the average epidemic by 540 days (95% CI: 508 - 572 days), doubling the current length, despite an insignificant rise in the number of new cases generated. Our results show that current recommendations for abstinence and condom use should reduce the number of sporadic sexual transmission events, but will not reduce the length of time the public health community must stay vigilant. While the number of infectious survivors is expected to greatly decline over the coming months, our results show that transmission events may still be expected for quite some time as each event results in a new potential cluster of non-sexual transmission. Precise measurement of the convalescent period is thus important for planning ongoing surveillance efforts.', u'An ecosystem is generally sustained by a set of integrated physical elements forming a functional landscape unit-ecotope, which supplies nutrients, microclimate, and exchanges matter and energy with the wider environment. To better predict environmental change effects on ecosystems, particularly in critically sensitive regions such as high altitudes, it is imperative to recognise how their natural landscape heterogeneity works at different scales to shape habitats and sustain biota communities prior to major changes.\nWe conducted a comprehensive survey of catchment physical, geological and ecological properties of 380 high altitude lakes and ponds in the axial Pyrenees at a variety of scales, in order to formulate and test an integrated model encompassing major flows and interactions that drive lake ecosystems.\nThree composite drivers encompassed most of the variability in lake catchment characteristics. In order of their statistical weight they were: (i) hydrology/hydrodynamics- responsible for type and discharge of inlets/outlets, and for water body size; (ii) bedrock geomorphology, summarizing geology, slope and fractal order- all dictating vegetation cover of catchment slope and lake shore, and the presence of aquatic vegetation. And, (iii) topography, i.e. catchment formation type- driving lakes connectivity, and the presence of summer snow deposits. While (i) appeared to be local, (ii) and (iii) showed gradient changes along altitude and latitude. These three drivers differentiated several lake ecotopes based on their landscape similarities. The three-driver model was successfully tested on a riparian vegetation composition dataset, further illustrating the validity of the concept.\nThe findings inform on the relative contribution of scale-dependent catchment physical elements to lake ecotope and ecosystem formation in high altitude lakes, which should inform any assessment of potentially major deleterious effects due to environmental/climate change.', u'Negative and positive experiences can exert a strong influence on later memory. Our emotional experiences are composed of many different elements - people, place, things - most of them neutral. Do emotional experiences lead to enhanced long-term for these neutral elements as well? Demonstrating a lasting effect of emotion on memory is particularly important if memory for emotional events is to adaptively guide behavior days, weeks, or years later. We thus tested whether aversive experiences modulate very long-term episodic memory in an fMRI experiment. Participants experienced episodes of high or low pain in conjunction with the presentation of incidental, trial- unique neutral object pictures. In a scanned surprise immediate memory test, we found no effect of pain on recognition strength. Critically, in a follow-up memory test one year later we found that pain significantly enhanced memory. Neurally, we provide a novel demonstration of activity predicting memory one year later, whereby greater insula activity and more unique distributed patterns of insular activity in the initial session correlated with memory for pain-associated objects. Generally, our results suggest that pairing episodes with arousing negative stimuli may lead to very long-lasting memory enhancements.', u'Healthy lifespan can be extended in eukaryotes by dietary restriction (DR). In Drosophila, DR of essential amino acids (EAAs) extends lifespan, which is thought to be dependent on the Target of Rapamycin (TOR) pathway, but the transcriptional bases of these effects are poorly understood. Identifying these transcriptional changes and their regulators offers the prospect of correctly coordinating physiology to mimic the benefits of DR. We have analysed how DR and TOR alter transcriptional networks in adult female Drosophila, by specifically diluting EAAs or adding the TOR-suppressive drug rapamycin and analysing the transcriptomes of dissected organs. This network analysis simplified the description of the organ system by two orders of magnitude whilst retaining ~80% of information. The broad transcriptional effects of DR were recapitulated by rapamycin, indicating that DR exerts its transcriptional effects via TOR. At a finer resolution, one particular transcriptional module was associated with transcriptional changes induced by both DR and rapamycin, suggesting a general anti-ageing role for this module. However there were also treatment-specific effects of both DR and rapamycin, with the important implication that not all transcriptional effects of TOR suppression are obligately coupled, which may offer the possibility of separating lifespan benefits from costs of intervention. These changes across organs were mirrored by changes within organs. Lifespan-associated transcriptional changes were strongly associated with binding sites for GATA transcription factors, providing a candidate mechanism to regulate the observed transcriptional effects of diet. Collectively these results show that diet and TOR signaling have extensive effects on transcription across organs, isolate transcriptional changes that may be generally associated with longevity from other effects of DR and of drugs, and show that the genes associated with lifespan extension are enriched in GATA motifs.', u'The sequence of a genome is insufficient to understand all genomic processes carried out in the cell nucleus. To achieve this, the knowledge of its three- dimensional architecture is necessary. Advances in genomic technologies and the development of new analytical methods, such as Chromosome Conformation Capture (3C) and its derivatives, now permit to investigate the spatial organization of genomes. However, inferring structures from raw contact data is a tedious process for shortage of available tools. Here we present TADbit, a computational framework to analyze and model the chromatin fiber in three dimensions. To illustrate the use of TADbit, we automatically modeled 50 genomic domains from the fly genome revealing differential structural features of the previously defined chromatin colors, establishing a link between the conformation of the genome and the local chromatin composition. More generally, TADbit allows to obtain three-dimensional models ready for visualization from 3C-based experiments and to characterize their relation to gene expression and epigenetic states. TADbit is open-source and available for download from http://www.3DGenomes.org.', u'Sickle Cell Disease (SCD) is a serious recessive genetic disorder caused by a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the \u03b2-globin gene (HBB). Sickle hemoglobin polymerizes within red blood cells (RBCs), causing them to adopt an elongated "sickle" shape. Sickle RBCs damage vasculature, leading to severe symptoms, ultimately diminishing patient quality of life and reducing lifespan. Here, we use co-delivery of a pre-formed Cas9 ribonucleoprotein complex (RNP) and a single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) oligonucleotide donor to drive sequence replacement at the SCD SNP in human CD34+ hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSPCs). Corrected HSPCs from SCD patients produce less sickle hemoglobin protein and correspondingly increased wild-type hemoglobin when differentiated into erythroblasts. When injected into immunocompromised mice, treated HSPCs maintain editing long-term at therapeutically relevant levels. These results demonstrate that the Cas9 RNP/ssDNA donor approach can mediate efficient HSPC gene editing and could form the basis for treatment of SCD by autologous hematopoietic cell transplantation.', u'About two-thirds of the vital genes in the Drosophila genome are involved in eye development, making the fly eye an excellent genetic system to study cellular function and development, neurodevelopment/degeneration, and complex diseases such as cancer and diabetes. We developed a novel computational method, implemented as Flynotyper software (http://flynotyper.sourceforge.net), to quantitatively assess the morphological defects in the Drosophila eye resulting from genetic alterations affecting basic cellular and developmental processes. Flynotyper utilizes a series of image processing operations to automatically detect the fly eye and the individual ommatidium, and calculates a phenotypic score as a measure of the disorderliness of ommatidial arrangement in the fly eye. As a proof of principle, we tested our method by analyzing the defects due to eye-specific knockdown of Drosophila orthologs of 12 neurodevelopmental genes to accurately document differential sensitivities of these genes to dosage alteration. We also evaluated eye images from six independent studies assessing the effect of overexpression of repeats, candidates from peptide library screens, and modifiers of neurotoxicity and developmental processes on eye morphology, and show strong concordance with the original assessment. We further demonstrate the utility of this method by analyzing 16 modifiers of sine oculis obtained from two genome-wide deficiency screens of Drosophila and accurately quantifying the effect of its enhancers and suppressors during eye development. Our method will complement existing assays for eye phenotypes and increase the accuracy of studies that use fly eyes for functional evaluation of genes and genetic interactions.', u'Variance components methods that estimate the aggregate contribution of large sets of variants to the heritability of complex traits have yielded important insights into the disease architecture of common diseases. Here, we introduce new methods that estimate the total variance in trait explained by a single locus in the genome (local heritability) from summary GWAS data while accounting for linkage disequilibrium (LD) among variants. We apply our new estimator to ultra large-scale GWAS summary data of 30 common traits and diseases to gain insights into their local genetic architecture. First, we find that common SNPs have a high contribution to the heritability of all studied traits. Second, we identify traits for which the majority of the SNP heritability can be confined to a small percentage of the genome. Third, we identify GWAS risk loci where the entire locus explains significantly more variance in the trait than the GWAS reported variants. Finally, we identify 55 loci that explain a large proportion of heritability across multiple traits.', u'Genotyping-by-sequencing (GBS) and related methods are based on high-throughput short-read sequencing of genomic complexity reductions followed by discovery of SNPs within sequence tags. This provides a powerful and economical approach to whole-genome genotyping, facilitating applications in genomics, diversity analysis, and molecular breeding. However, due to the complexity of analysing large data sets, applications of GBS may require substantial time, expertise and computational resources. Haplotag, the novel GBS software described here, is freely available and operates with minimal user-investment on widely-available computer platforms. Haplotag is unique in fulfilling the following set of criteria: (1) operates without a reference genome; (2) can be used in a polyploid species; (3) provides a discovery mode and a production mode; (4) discovers polymorphisms based on a model of tag-level haplotypes within sequenced tags; (5) reports SNPs as well as haplotype-based genotypes; (6) provides an intuitive visual passport for each inferred locus.  Haplotag is optimized for use in a self-pollinating plant species.', u'Background. Mobile health and digital medicine technologies are becoming increasingly used by individuals with common, chronic diseases to monitor their health. Numerous devices, sensors, and apps are available to patients and consumers -- some of which have been shown to lead to improved health management and health outcomes. However, no randomized controlled trials have been conducted which examine health care costs, and most have failed to provide study participants with a truly comprehensive monitoring system. \nMethods. We conducted a prospective randomized controlled trial of adults who had submitted a 2012 health insurance claim associated with hypertension, diabetes, and/or cardiac arrhythmia. The intervention involved receipt of one or more mobile devices that corresponded to their condition(s) and an iPhone with linked tracking applications for a period of 6 months; the control group received a standard disease management program. Moreover, intervention study participants received access to an online health management system which provided participants detailed device tracking information over the course of the study. This was a monitoring system designed by leveraging collaborations with device manufacturers, a connected health leader, health care provider, and employee wellness program -- making it both unique and inclusive. We hypothesized that health resource utilization with respect to health insurance claims may be influenced by the monitoring intervention. We also examined health-self management.\nResults & Conclusions. There was little evidence of differences in health care costs or utilization as a result of the intervention. Furthermore, we found evidence that the control and intervention groups were equivalent with respect to most health care utilization outcomes. This result suggests there are not large short-term increases or decreases in health care costs or utilization associated with monitoring chronic health conditions using mobile health or digital medicine technologies. Among secondary outcomes there was some evidence of improvement in health self-management which was characterized by a decrease in the propensity to view health status as due to chance factors in the intervention group. Clinical trial registration ID # NCT01975428', u'We investigated the evolution of the response of human, chicken, alligator and frog glucocorticoid receptors (GRs) to dexamethasone, cortisol, corticosterone, 11-deoxycorticosterone, 11-deoxycortisol and aldosterone.  We find significant differences among these vertebrates in the transcriptional activation of their full length GRs by these steroids, indicating that there were changes in the specificity of the GR for steroids during the evolution of terrestrial vertebrates.  To begin to study the role of interactions between different domains on the GR in steroid sensitivity and specificity for terrestrial GRs, we investigated transcriptional activation of truncated GRs containing their hinge domain and ligand binding domain (LBD) fused to a GAL4 DNA binding domain (GAL4 DBD).  Compared to corresponding full length GRs, transcriptional activation of GAL4 DBD-GR hinge/LBD constructs required higher steroid concentrations and displayed altered steroid specificity, indicating that interactions between the hinge/LBD and other domains are important in glucocorticoid activation of these terrestrial GRs.', u'Aim Coral reefs are increasingly threatened by interactions of global and local anthropogenic stressors, two of the most prominent being rising seawater temperature and nutrient enrichment. We aim to determine how spatiotemporal variations of environmental stressors across a reefscape determine which coral species are most successful during this climate change interval.\nLocation Belize, Central America \nMethods Thirteen lagoonal reefs on the Belize Barrier Reef System (BBRS) were surveyed to investigate the influence of temperature and nutrient history on coral community structure across reefscapes. A novel metric was developed using ultra-high resolution sea surface temperature (SST) records to classify reefs as enduring low temperature parameters (lowTP), moderate temperature parameters (modTP), or extreme temperature parameters (extTP) based on four thermal parameters known to be important drivers of overall reef health\nResults Coral species richness, abundance, diversity, density, and percent cover were lower at extTP sites compared to lowTP and modTP sites, but these reef community traits did not differ between lowTP and modTP sites. Coral life history strategy analyses indicated that extTP sites were dominated by hardy stress-tolerant and fast growing weedy coral species, while lowTP and modTP sites included competitive, generalist, weedy, and stress-tolerant coral species. \nMain Conclusions Coral community differences between extTP and lowTP/modTP sites were primarily driven by temperature differences. While the influence of nutrients on reef community traits was minimal, bulk nutrient concentrations likely affected percent coral cover. Lack of community scale differences between lowTP and modTP sites is likely driven by low-magnitude thermal variations in these reef locations. Dominance of weedy and stress-tolerant genera at extTP sites suggests that corals utilizing these two life history strategies may be better suited to cope with IPCC projected ocean warming conditions. Our results reveal that temperature is the primary driver of differences in coral community composition among these distinct reef environments.', u'Software for rapid, accurate, and comprehensive microbial profiling of metagenomic sequence data on a\ndesktop will play an important role in large scale clinical use of metagenomic data. Here we describe\nLMAT-ML (Livermore Metagenomics Analysis Toolkit-Marker Library) which can be run with 24 GB of\nDRAM memory, an amount available on many clusters, or with 16 GB DRAM plus a 24 GB low cost\ncommodity flash drive (NVRAM), a cost effective alternative for desktop or laptop users. We compared\nresults from LMAT with five other rapid, low-memory tools for metagenome analysis for 131 Human\nMicrobiome Project samples, and assessed discordant calls with BLAST. All the tools except LMAT-ML\nreported overly specific or incorrect species and strain resolution of reads that were in fact much more\nwidely conserved across species, genera, and even families. Several of the tools misclassified reads from\nsynthetic or vector sequence as microbial or human reads as viral. We attribute the high numbers of\nfalse positive and false negative calls to a limited reference database with inadequate representation of\nknown diversity. Our comparisons with real world samples show that LMAT-ML is the only tool tested\nthat classifies the majority of reads, and does so with high accuracy.', u'Abstract. Reads from paired-end and mate-pair libraries are often utilized to find structural variation in genomes, and one common approach is to use their fragment length for detection. After aligning read-pairs to the reference, read-pair distances are analyzed for statistically significant deviations. However, previously proposed methods are based on a simplified model of observed fragment lengths that does not agree with data. We show how this model limits statistical analysis of identifying variants and propose a new model, by adapting a model we have previously introduced for contig scaffolding, which agrees with data. From this model we derive an improved improved null hypothesis that, when applied in the variant caller CLEVER, reduces the number of false positives and corrects a bias that contributes to more deletion calls than insertion calls. A reference implementation is freely available at https://github.com/ksahlin/GetDistr.', u'Recent years have seen substantial developments in technology for imaging neural circuits, raising the prospect of large scale imaging studies of neural populations involved in information processing, with the potential to lead to step changes in our understanding of brain function and dysfunction. In this article we will review some key recent advances: improved fluorophores for single cell resolution functional neuroimaging using a two photon microscope; improved approaches to the problem of scanning active circuits; and the prospect of scanless microscopes which overcome some of the bandwidth limitations of current imaging techniques. These advances in technology for experimental neuroscience have in themselves led to technical challenges, such as the need for the development of novel signal processing and data analysis tools in order to make the most of the new experimental tools. We review recent work in some active topics, such as region of interest segmentation algorithms capable of demixing overlapping signals, and new highly accurate algorithms for calcium transient detection. These advances motivate the development of new data analysis tools capable of dealing with spatial or spatiotemporal patterns of neural activity, that scale well with pattern size.', u'Purpose: To determine whether papers contributed by National Academy of Sciences (NAS) members perform differently than direct submissions.\n\nData/Methods: 55,889 original papers published in PNAS from 1997 through 2014. Regression analysis measuring total citations, controlling for editorial track (Contributed, Direct, Communicated), date of publication, and paper topic.\n\nMain findings: Contributed papers consistently underperformed against Direct submissions, receiving 9% fewer citations, ceteris paribus. The effect was greatest for Social Sciences papers (12% fewer citations). Nonetheless, the main effect has attenuated over the past decade, from 13.6% fewer citations in 2005 to just 2.2% fewer citations in 2014.\n\nSignificance: Successive editorial policies placing limits, restrictions, and other qualifications on the publication privileges of NAS members may be responsible for the submission of better performing Contributed papers.', u'Chronic Intestinal Pseudo-Obstruction (CIPO) is a rare, but life-threatening, disease characterized by severe intestinal dysmotility. Histopathological studies of CIPO patients have identified several different mechanisms that appear to be responsible for the dysmotility, including defects in neurons, smooth muscle or interstitial cells of Cajal. Currently there are few mouse models of the various forms of CIPO. We generated a mouse with a point mutation in the RNA Recognition Motif of the Nup35 gene, which encodes a component of the nuclear pore complex. Nup35 mutants developed a severe megacolon and exhibited reduced lifespan. Histopathological examination revealed a degenerative myopathy that developed after birth and specifically affected smooth muscle in the colon; smooth muscle in the small bowel and the bladder were not affected. Furthermore, no defects were found in enteric neurons or interstitial cells of Cajal. Nup35 mice are likely to be a valuable model for the sub-type of CIPO characterized by degenerative myopathy. Our study also raises the possibility that Nup35 polymorphisms could contribute to some cases of CIPO.', u"Striatal projection neurons form a sparsely-connected inhibitory network, and this arrangement may be essential for the appropriate temporal organization of behavior. Here we show that a simplified, sparse inhibitory network of Leaky-Integrate-and-Fire\nneurons can reproduce some key features of striatal population activity, as observed in brain slices. In particular we develop a new metric to determine the conditions under which sparse inhibitory networks form anti-correlated cell assemblies with time-varying\nactivity of individual cells. We find that under these conditions the network displays an input-specific sequence of cell assembly switching, that effectively discriminates similar inputs. Our results support the proposal that GABAergic connections between striatal projection neurons allow stimulus-selective, temporally-extended sequential activation of cell assemblies. Furthermore, we help to show how altered intrastriatal GABAergic signaling may produce aberrant network-level information processing in disorders such as Parkinson's and Huntington's diseases.", u'How neural stem cells generate the correct number and type of differentiated neurons in appropriate places is an important question in developmental biology.  Although nervous systems are diverse across phyla, many taxa have a larva that forms an anterior concentration of neurons, or apical organ.  The number of neurons in these organs is highly variable. We show that neurogenesis in the sea star larvae begins with soxc-expressing multipotent progenitors.  These give rise to restricted progenitors that express lhx2/9.  Soxc- and lhx2/9-expressing cells are capable of undergoing both asymmetric divisions, which allow for progression towards a particular neural fate, and symmetric proliferative divisions.  Nested concentric domains of gene expression along the anterior-posterior (AP) axis, which have been observed in a great diversity of metazoans, control neurogenesis in the sea star by promoting particular division modes and progression towards becoming a neuron. This work, therefore, explains how spatial patterning in the ectoderm controls progression of neurogenesis. Modification to the sizes of these AP territories provides a simple mechanism to explain the diversity of neuron number found among apical organs.', u'Background\nBoth the ecological adaptations of an organism and its evolutionary history are recorded in a genome. We used Agrobacterium biovar 1, a diverse group of plant-associated bacteria as a model to search for genomic signatures of ecological adaptation in relation to diversification. We designed a new phylogenetic approach accounting for horizontal transfer and duplication to reconstruct the evolutionary history of Agrobacterium genomes and infer ancestral gene contents. \nResults\nWe find that allowing for genes to be co-transferred and co-duplicated significantly improves scenarios of genome evolution. Most genes acquired before the diversification of major clades within Agrobacterium are organized in blocks of co-evolving genes encoding coherent pathways. This pattern of gene co-evolution rejects a neutral model of transfer, in which neighbouring genes would be transferred independently of their function. In addition, the conservation of acquired genes is driven by purifying selection on collectively coded functions. Based on this criterion, we identify the genomic determinants of ecological niche diversification within this group. \nConclusions\nThe strong selective role of host plant rhizospheres in the history of Agrobacterium is evident from the recurrent acquisition of functions involved in the production of secreted secondary metabolites or extracellular matrix, and in the metabolism of plant-derived compounds such as phenolics and amino-acids. Our reconstructed genome history - from single gene trees with transfer and duplication events to blocks of co-evolved genes and functional annotations... - is compiled in an integrative database, Agrogenom, which can be visualized and queried through an interactive web interface accessible at http://phylariane.univ-lyon1.fr/db/agrogenom/3.', u'Motivation: Increased throughput and diverse experimental designs of large-scale sequencing studies necessi-tate versatile, scalable and robust variant calling tools. In particular, identification of copy number changes re-mains a challenging task due to their complexity, susceptibility to sequencing biases, variation in coverage data and dependence on genome-wide sample properties, such as tumor polyploidy or polyclonality in cancer samples.\nResults: We have developed a new tool, Canvas, for identification of copy number changes from diverse se-quencing experiments including whole-genome matched tumor-normal and single-sample normal re-sequencing, as well as whole-exome matched and unmatched tumor-normal studies. In addition to variant calling, Canvas infers genome-wide parameters such as cancer ploidy, purity and heterogeneity. It provides fast and simple to execute workflows that can scale to thousands of samples and can be easily incorporated into existing variant calling pipelines.\nAvailability: Canvas is distributed under an open source license and can be downloaded from https://github.com/Illumina/canvas.', u'Replication errors in the genome accumulate from a variety of mutational processes, which leave a history of mutations\non the affected genome. The relative contribution of each mutational process has been characterized by non-negative\nmatrix factorization and has lead to deeper insight into both mutational and repair processes contributing to cancer.\nHowever current implementations of NMF have left unresolved some specific patterns that should be present in the\nmutation data and have not generated signatures designed for classification. Here, we use a variant of NMF, termed\nnon-smooth NMF, to generate sparse matrix factorizations of somatic mutation profiles present in 7129 tumors. nsNMF\nfactorization revealed 21 mutational signatures. We found three APOBEC mutational processes clearly segregating\nwith the published APOBEC enzymology and trans-lesion repair processes. We discovered several signatures differed\nbetween geographic locations even between closely related tissues.', u'The Genealogical Sorting Index (gsi) has been widely used in species-delimitation studies, where it is usually interpreted as a measure of the degree to which each of several predefined groups of specimens display a pattern of divergent evolution in a phylogenetic tree.  Here we show that the gsi value obtained for a given group is highly dependent on the structure of the tree outside of the group of interest. By calculating the gsi from simulated datasets we demonstrate this dependence undermines some of desirable properties of the statistic. We also review the use of the gsi delimitation studies, and show that the gsi has typically been used under scenarios in which it is expected to produce large and statistically significant results for samples that are not divergent from all other populations and thus should not be considered species. Our proposed solution to this problem performs better than the gsi in under these conditions. Nevertheless, we show that our modified approach can produce positive results for populations that are connected by substantial levels of gene flow, and are thus unlikely to represent distinct species. We stress that the properties of gsi made clear in this manuscript must be taken into account if the statistic is used in species-delimitation studies. More generally, we argue that the results of genetic species-delimitation methods need to be interpreted in the light the biological and ecological setting of a study, and not treated as the final test applied to hypotheses generated by other data.', u"The 14th-18th century pandemic of Yersinia pestis caused devastating disease outbreaks in Europe for almost 400 years. The reasons for plague's persistence and abrupt disappearance in Europe are poorly understood, but could have been due to either the presence of now-extinct plague foci in Europe itself, or successive disease introductions from other locations. Here we present five Y. pestis genomes from one of the last European outbreaks of plague, from 1722 in Marseille, France. The lineage identified has not been found in any extant Y. pestis foci sampled to date, and has its ancestry in strains obtained from victims of the 14th century Black Death. These data suggest the existence of a previously uncharacterized historical plague focus that persisted for at least three centuries. We propose that this disease source may have been responsible for the many resurgences of plague in Europe following the Black Death.", u'Single-cell gene expression data provide invaluable resources for systematic characterization of cellular hierarchy in multi-cellular organisms. However, cell lineage reconstruction is still often associated with significant uncertainty due to technological constraints. Such uncertainties have not been taken into account in current methods. We present ECLAIR, a novel computational method for the statistical inference of cell lineage relationships from single-cell gene expression data. ECLAIR uses an ensemble approach to improve the robustness of lineage predictions, and provides a quantitative estimate of the uncertainty of lineage branchings. We show that the application of ECLAIR to published datasets successfully reconstructs known lineage relationships and significantly improves the robustness of predictions. In conclusion, ECLAIR is a powerful bioinformatics tool for single-cell data analysis. It can be used for robust lineage reconstruction with quantitative estimate of prediction accuracy.', u'Resting state fMRI (R-fMRI) is a powerful in-vivo tool for examining the functional architecture of the human brain. Recent studies have demonstrated the ability to characterize transitions between functionally distinct cortical areas through the mapping of gradients in intrinsic functional connectivity (iFC) profiles. To date, this novel approach has primarily been applied to iFC profiles averaged across groups of individuals, or in one case, a single individual scanned multiple times. Here, we used a publically available R-fMRI dataset, in which 30 healthy participants were scanned 10 times (10 minutes per session), to investigate differences in full-brain transition profiles (i.e., gradient maps, edge maps) across individuals, and their reliability. Despite similarities, we found individual-specific variations in transition zone properties, which were repeatable over time. Reliability of individual-specific variations increased with number of time points; however, even with only 10 minutes, individuals were nearly always distinguishable from one another. Higher-order networks exhibited greater between-individual variation for transition profiles, while sensory and motor networks exhibited greater within-individual variation. The gradients defined using alternative iFC measures revealed similar but distinct gradient profiles for each. These results illustrate the utility of gradient-based iFC approaches for studying inter-individual variation in brain function.', u'Schizophrenia is a common, debilitating psychiatric disorder with a substantial genetic component. By analysing the whole-exome sequences of 4,264 schizophrenia cases, 9,343 controls, and 1,077 parent-proband trios, we identified a genome-wide significant association between rare loss-of-function (LoF) variants in KMT2F and risk for schizophrenia. In this dataset, we observed three de novo LoF mutations, seven LoF variants in cases, and none in controls (P=3.3x10^(-9)). To search for LoF variants in KMT2F in individuals without a known neuropsychiatric diagnosis, we examined the exomes of 45,376 individuals in the ExAC database and found only two heterozygous LoF variants, showing that KMT2F is significantly depleted of LoF variants in the general population. Seven of the ten individuals with schizophrenia carrying KMT2F LoF variants also had varying degrees of learning difficulties. We further identified four KMT2F LoF carriers among 4,281 children with diverse, severe, undiagnosed developmental disorders, and two additional carriers in an independent sample of 5,720 Finnish exomes, both with notable neuropsychiatric phenotypes. Together, our observations show that LoF variants in KMT2F cause a range of neurodevelopmental disorders, including schizophrenia. Combined with previous common variant evidence, we more generally implicate epigenetic dysregulation, specifically in the histone H3K4 methylation pathway, as an important mechanism in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia.', u'Simulation under the coalescent model is ubiquitous in the analysis of genetic data. The rapid growth of real data sets from multiple human populations led to increasing interest in simulating very large sample sizes at whole-chromosome scales. When the sample size is large, the coalescent model becomes an increasingly inaccurate approximation of the discrete time Wright-Fisher model (DTWF). Analytical and computational treatment of the DTWF, however, is generally harder. We present a simulator (ARGON) for the DTWF process that scales up to hundreds of thousands of samples and whole-chromosome lengths, with a time/memory performance comparable or superior to currently available methods for coalescent simulation. The simulator supports arbitrary demographic history, migration, variable mutation/recombination rates and gene conversion, and efficiently outputs pairwise identical-by-descent (IBD) sharing data. ARGON (version 0.1) is written in Java, open source, and freely available at https://github.com/pierpal/ARGON.', u'A selective sweep is the result of strong positive selection rapidly driving newly occurring or standing genetic variants to fixation, and can dramatically alter the pattern and distribution of allelic diversity in a population or species. Population-level sequencing data have enabled discoveries of selective sweeps associated with genes involved in recent adaptations in many species. In contrast, much debate but little empirical evidence addresses whether "selfish" genes are capable of fixation -- thereby leaving signatures identical to classical selective sweeps -- despite being neutral or deleterious to organismal fitness. We previously reported the discovery of R2d2, a large copy-number variant that causes non-random segregation of mouse Chromosome 2 in females due to meiotic drive. Here we show population-genetic data consistent with a "selfish" sweep driven by alleles of R2d2 with high copy number (R2d2HC) in natural populations of mice. We replicate this finding in multiple closed breeding populations from six outbred backgrounds segregating for R2d2 alleles. We find that R2d2HC rapidly increases in frequency, and in most cases becomes fixed in significantly fewer generations than can be explained by genetic drift. R2d2HC is also associated with significantly reduced litter sizes in heterozygosity, making it a true selfish allele. Our data provide direct evidence of populations actively undergoing selfish sweeps, and demonstrate that meiotic drive can rapidly alter the genomic landscape in favor of mutations with neutral or even negative effects on overall Darwinian fitness. Further study will reveal the incidence of selfish sweeps, and will elucidate the relative contributions of selfish genes, adaptation and genetic drift to evolution.', u"Human visual object recognition is subserved by a multitude of cortical areas. To make sense of this system, one line of research focused on response properties of primary visual cortex neurons and developed theoretical models of a set of canonical computations such as convolution, thresholding, exponentiating and normalization that could be hierarchically repeated to give rise to more complex representations. Another line or research focused on response properties of high-level visual cortex and linked these to semantic categories useful for object recognition. Here, we hypothesized that the panoply of visual representations in the human ventral stream may be understood as emergent properties of a system constrained both by simple canonical computations and by top-level, object recognition functionality in a single unified framework (Yamins et al., 2014; Khaligh-Razavi and Kriegeskorte, 2014; Guclu and van Gerven, 2015). We built a deep convolutional neural network model optimized for object recognition and compared representations at various model levels using representational similarity analysis to human functional imaging responses elicited from viewing hundreds of image stimuli. Neural network layers developed representations that corresponded in a hierarchical consistent fashion to visual areas from V1 to LOC. This correspondence increased with optimization of the model's recognition performance. These findings support a unified view of the ventral stream in which representations from the earliest to the latest stages can be understood as being built from basic computations inspired by modeling of early visual cortex shaped by optimization for high-level object-based performance constraints.", u"The cell types that trigger the primary pathology in many brain diseases remain largely unknown. One route to understanding the primary pathological cell type for a particular disease is to identify the cells expressing susceptibility genes. Although this is straightforward for monogenic conditions where the causative mutation may alter expression of a cell type specific marker, methods are required for the common polygenic disorders. We developed the Expression Weighted Cell Type Enrichment (EWCE) method that uses single cell transcriptomes to generate the probability distribution associated with a gene list having an average level of expression within a cell type. Following validation, we applied EWCE to human genetic data from cases of epilepsy, Schizophrenia, Autism, Intellectual Disability, Alzheimer's disease, Multiple Sclerosis and anxiety disorders. Genetic susceptibility primarily affected microglia in Alzheimer's and Multiple Sclerosis; was shared between interneurons and pyramidal neurons in Autism and Schizophrenia; while intellectual disabilities and epilepsy were attributable to a range of cell-types, with the strongest enrichment in interneurons. We hypothesized that the primary cell type pathology could trigger secondary changes in other cell types and these could be detected by applying EWCE to transcriptome data from diseased tissue. In Autism, Schizophrenia and Alzheimers disease we find evidence of pathological changes in all of the major brain cell types. These findings give novel insight into the cellular origins and progression in common brain disorders. The methods can be applied to any tissue and disorder and have applications in validating mouse models.", u'Spatial structure greatly affects the evolution of cooperation. While in two-player games the condition for cooperation to evolve depends on a single structure coefficient, in multiplayer games the condition might depend on several structure coefficients, making it difficult to compare different population structures. We propose a solution to this issue by introducing two simple ways of ordering population structures: the containment order and the volume order. If population structure \U0001d4ae1 is greater than population structure \U0001d4ae2 in the containment or the volume order, then \U0001d4ae1 can be considered a stronger promoter of cooperation. We provide conditions for establishing the containment order, give general results on the volume order, and illustrate our theory by comparing different models of spatial games and associated update rules. Our results hold for a large class of population structures and can be easily applied to specific cases once the structure coefficients have been calculated or estimated.', u"Retrieval can render memories labile, allowing them to be modified or erased by behavioral or pharmacological intervention. This phenomenon, known as reconsolidation, defies explanation in terms of classical associative learning theories, prompting a reconsideration of basic learning mechanisms in the brain. We propose that two mechanisms interact to produce reconsolidation: an associative learning mechanism of the form posited by classical theories, and a structure learning mechanism that discovers the units of association by segmenting the stream of experience into statistically distinct clusters (latent causes). We derive this framework from statistical principles, and present a mechanistic implementation. Simulations demonstrate that it can reproduce the major experimental findings from studies of reconsolidation, including dependence on the strength and age of memories, the interval between memory retrieval and extinction, and prediction errors following retrieval. In addition, we present new experimental data confirming the theory's prediction that performing part of extinction prior to retrieval attenuates reconsolidation.", u'Recent genome-wide studies revealed that as much as 80% of the human genome can be transcribed whereas only 2% of this RNA is translated into proteins. Non-coding transcripts can be subdivided into several groups, with long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) representing the largest and most diverse class. With breast cancer being the most frequent malignancy in women worldwide, we set out to investigate the potential of lncRNAs as novel therapeutic targets. By performing RNA-Seq on tumor sections and mammary organoids from MMTVPyMT and MMTV-Neu-NDL mice, modeling the luminal B and HER2/neuamplified\nsubtypes of human breast cancer respectively, we generated a comprehensive catalog of differentially expressed lncRNAs. We identified several hundred potentially oncogenic lncRNAs that were over-expressed in a subtype specific manner as well as numerous lncRNAs up-regulated in both models. Among these lncRNA we defined a subset of 30 previously uncharacterized lncRNAs as Mammary Tumor Associated RNAs (MaTARs) and we identified human orthologs. We functionally validated the role of these MaTARs by antisense oligonucleotide (ASO) mediated knockdown in primary mammary tumor cells and 3D ex vivo organoids. Upon independent knockdown of 15 MaTARs, we observed significantly reduced cell proliferation, invasion and/or collective cell migration in a cancer-specific context. Thus, MaTARs are likely key drivers of mammary tumor progression and/or metastasis and represent promising new therapeutic targets.', u'Events in primate evolution are often dated by assuming a "molecular clock", i.e., a constant rate of substitution per unit time, but the validity of this assumption remains unclear. Among mammals, it is well known that there exists substantial variation in yearly substitution rates. Such variation is to be expected from differences in life-history traits, suggesting that it should also be found among primates. Motivated by these considerations, we analyze whole genomes from ten primate species, including Old World Monkeys (OWMs), New World Monkeys (NWMs) and apes, focusing on putatively neutral autosomal sites and controlling for possible effects of biased gene conversion and methylation at CpG sites. We find that substitution rates are ~65% higher in lineages leading from the hominoid-NWM ancestor to NWMs than to apes. Within apes, rates are ~2% higher in chimpanzees and ~7% higher in the gorilla than in humans. Substitution types subject to biased gene conversion show no more variation among species than those not subject to it. Not all mutation types behave similarly, however: in particular, transitions at CpG sites exhibit a more clock-like behavior than do other types, presumably due to their non-replicative origin. Thus, not only the total rate, but also the mutational spectrum varies among primates. This finding suggests that events in primate evolution are most reliably dated using CpG transitions. Taking this approach, we estimate that the average time to the most recent common ancestor of human and chimpanzee is 12.1 million years and their split time 7.9 million years.', u'We present a model that shows how intratumoral heterogeneity, in terms of tumor cell phenotypic traits, can evolve in a tumor mass as a result of selection when space is a limited resource. This model specifically looks at the traits of proliferation rate and migration speed. The competition for space amongst individuals in the tumor mass creates a selection pressure for the cells with the fittest traits. To allow for organic movement and capture the invasive behavior, we use an off-lattice individual-based model.', u'RNAseq is a relatively new tool for ecological genetics that offers researchers insight into changes in gene expression in response to a myriad of natural or experimental conditions. However, standard RNAseq methods (e.g., Illumina TruSeq\xae or NEBNext\xae) can be cost prohibitive, especially when study designs require large sample sizes. Consequently, RNAseq is often underused as a method, or is applied to small sample sizes that confer poor statistical power. Low cost RNAseq methods could therefore enable far greater and more powerful applications of transcriptomics in ecological genetics and beyond. Standard mRNAseq is costly partly because one sequences portions of the full length of all transcripts. Such whole-mRNA data is redundant for estimates of relative gene expression. TagSeq is an alternative method that focuses sequencing effort on mRNAs 3-prime end, thereby reducing the necessary sequencing depth per sample, and thus cost. Here we present a revised TagSeq protocol, and compare its performance against NEBNext\xae, the gold-standard whole mRNAseq method. We built both TagSeq and NEBNext\xae libraries from the same biological samples, each spiked with control RNAs. We found that TagSeq measured the control RNA distribution more accurately than NEBNext\xae, for a fraction of the cost per sample (~10%). The higher accuracy of TagSeq was particularly apparent for transcripts of moderate to low abundance. Technical replicates of TagSeq libraries are highly correlated, and were correlated with NEBNext\xae results. Overall, we show that our modified TagSeq protocol is an efficient alternative to traditional whole mRNAseq, offering researchers comparable data at greatly reduced cost.', u'Motivation: Deep sequencing based ribosome footprint profiling can\nprovide novel insights into the regulatory mechanisms of protein\ntranslation. However, the observed ribosome profile is fundamentally\nconfounded by transcriptional activity. In order to decipher principles\nof translation regulation, tools that can reliably detect changes in\ntranslation efficiency in case-control studies are needed.\n\nResults: We present a statistical framework and analysis tool,\nRiboDiff, to detect genes with changes in translation efficiency\nacross experimental treatments. RiboDiff uses generalized linear\nmodels to estimate the over-dispersion of RNA-Seq and ribosome\nprofiling measurements separately, and performs a statistical test for\ndifferential translation efficiency using both mRNA abundance and\nribosome occupancy.\n\nAvailability: Source code and documentation are available\nat http://github.com/ratschlab/ribodiff. Supplementary\nMaterial can be found at http://bioweb.me/ribo.', u"As a result of a high rate\nof mutations and recombination events, an RNA-virus exists as a heterogeneous ``swarm''.\nThe ability of next-generation sequencing to produce massive quantities of genomic\ndata inexpensively has allowed virologists to study the structure of viral populations\nfrom an infected host at an unprecedented resolution. \nHowever, high similarity \nand low frequency of the viral\nvariants impose a huge challenge to assembly of individual full-length genomes. The long read length offered by single-molecule sequencing technologies allows each mutant variant to be sequenced in a single pass. However, high error rate limits the ability to reconstruct heterogeneous viral population composed of rare, related mutant variants. In this paper, we present 2SNV, a method able to tolerate the high error-rate of the single-molecule protocol and reconstruct mutant variants.  The proposed protocol is able to eliminate sequencing errors and reconstruct closely related viral mutant variants.\n2SNV uses linkage between single nucleotide variations to efficiently distinguish them from read errors.\nTo benchmark the sensitivity of 2SNV, we performed a single-molecule sequencing experiment on a sample containing a titrated level of known viral mutant variants.\n\nOur method is able to accurately reconstruct clone with frequency of 0.2% and distinguish clones that differed in only two nucleotides distantly located on the genome. 2SNV outperforms existing methods for full-length viral mutant reconstruction. With high sensitivity and accuracy, 2SNV is anticipated to facilitate not only viral quasispecies reconstruction, but also other biological questions that require detection of rare haplotypes such as genetic diversity in cancer cell population, and monitoring B-cell and T-cell receptor repertoire.\nThe open source \nimplementation of 2SNV is freely available for download at\nhttp://alan.cs.gsu.edu/NGS/?q=content/2snv", u'Background. Drug treatments and vaccine designs against the opportunistic human pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa have multiple issues, all associated with the diverse genetic traits present in this pathogen, ranging from multi-drug resistant genes to the molecular machinery for the biosynthesis of biofilms. Several candidate vaccines against P. aeruginosa have been developed, which target the outer membrane proteins; however, major issues arise when attempting to establish complete protection against this pathogen due to its presumably genotypic variation at the strain level. To shed light on this concern, we proposed this study to assess the P. aeruginosa pangenome and its molecular evolution across multiple strains. Results. The P. aeruginosa pangenome was estimated to contain more than 16,000 non-redundant genes, and approximately 15% of these constituted the core genome. Functional analyses of the accessory genome indicated a wide presence of genetic elements directly associated with pathogenicity. An in-depth molecular evolution analysis revealed the full landscape of selection forces acting on the P. aeruginosa pangenome, in which purifying selection drives evolution in the genome of this human pathogen. We also detected distinctive positive selection in a wide variety of outer membrane proteins, with the data supporting the concept of substantial genetic variation in proteins probably recognized as antigens. Approaching the evolutionary information of genes under extremely positive selection, we designed a new Multi-Locus Sequencing Typing  assay for an informative, rapid, and cost-effective genotyping of P. aeruginosa clinical isolates. Conclusions. We report the unprecedented pangenome characterization of P. aeruginosa on a large scale, which included almost 200 bacterial genomes from one single species and a molecular evolutionary analysis at the pangenome scale. Evolutionary information presented here provides a clear explanation of the issues associated with the use of protein conjugates from pili, flagella, or secretion systems as antigens for vaccine design, which exhibit high genetic variation in terms of non-synonymous substitutions in P. aeruginosa strains.', u'Motif analysis has long been an important method\nto characterize biological functionality and the\ncurrent growth of sequencing-based genomics\nexperiments further extends its potential. These\ndiverse experiments often generate sequence lists\nranked by some functional property. There is therefore\na growing need for motif analysis methods that can\nexploit this coupled data structure and be tailored for\nspecific biological questions. Here, we present a motif\nanalysis tool, Regmex (REGular expression Motif\nEXplorer), which offers several methods to identify\noverrepresented motifs in a ranked list of sequences.\nRegmex uses regular expressions to define motifs or\nfamilies of motifs and embedded Markov models to\ncalculate exact probabilities for motif observations in\nsequences. Motif enrichment is optionally evaluated\nusing random walks, Brownian bridges, or modified\nrank based statistics. These features make Regmex\nwell suited for a range of biological sequence analysis\nproblems related to motif discovery. We demonstrate\ndifferent usage scenarios including rank correlation of\nmicroRNA binding sites co-occurring with a U-rich\nmotif. The method is available as an R package.', u'Background: The miniaturised and portable DNA sequencer MinIONTM has been released to the scientific community within the framework of an early access programme to evaluate its application for a wide variety of genetic approaches. This technology has demonstrated great potential, especially in genome-wide analyses. In this study, we tested the ability of the MinIONTM system to perform amplicon sequencing in order to design new approaches to study microbial diversity using nearly full-length 16S rDNA sequences.\nResults: Using R7.3 chemistry, we generated more than 3.8 million events (nt) during a single sequencing run. These data were sufficient to reconstruct more than 90% of the 16S rRNA gene sequences for 20 different species present in a mock reference community. After read mapping and 16S rRNA gene assembly, consensus sequences and 2d reads were recovered to assign taxonomic classification down to the species level. Additionally, we were able to measure the relative abundance of all the species present in a mock community and detected a biased species distribution originating from the PCR reaction using universal primers.\nConclusions: Although nanopore-based sequencing produces reads with lower per-base accuracy compared with other platforms, the MinIONTM DNA sequencer is valuable for both high taxonomic resolution and microbial diversity analysis. Improvements in nanopore chemistry, such as minimising base-calling errors and the nucleotide bias reported here for 16S amplicon sequencing, will further deliver more reliable information that is useful for the specific detection of microbial species and strains in complex ecosystems.', u'We have set up and manually curated a dataset containing experimental information on the impact of amino acid substitutions in a protein on its thermal stability. It consists of a repository of experimentally measured melting temperatures (Tm) and their changes upon point mutations (\u2206Tm) for proteins having a well-resolved X-ray structure. This high-quality dataset is designed for being used for the training or benchmarking of in silico thermal stability prediction methods. It also reports other experimentally measured thermodynamic quantities when available, i.e. the folding enthalpy (\u2206H) and heat capacity (\u2206CP) of the wild type proteins and their changes upon mutations (\u2206\u2206H and \u2206\u2206CP ), as well as the change in folding free energy (\u2206\u2206G) at a reference temperature. These data are analyzed in view of improving our insights into the correlation between thermal and thermodynamic stabilities, the asymmetry between the number of stabilizing and destabilizing mutations, and the difference in stabilization potential of thermostable versus mesostable proteins.', u'Heritability analysis suggests that genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have the potential to improve genetic risk prediction for complex diseases. Polygenic risk-score (PRS) is a widely used modelling technique that requires only availability of summary-level data from the discovery samples. We propose two modifications to improve the performance of PRS. First, we propose threshold dependent winners curse adjustments for marginal association coefficients that are used to weight the SNPs in PRS. Second, to exploit various external functional/annotation knowledge that might identify subset of SNPs highly enriched for association signals, we consider using variable thresholds for SNPs selection. We applied our methods to the GWAS summary-level data of fourteen complex diseases. Our analysis shows that while a simple winners curse correction uniformly leads to enhancement of performance of the models across traits, incorporation of functional SNPs was beneficial for only selected traits. Compared to standard PRS algorithm, the proposed methods in combination leads to substantial efficiency gain (25-50% increase in the prediction R2) for five out of fifteen diseases. As an example, for GWAS of type 2 diabetes, the lasso-based winners curse correction improves prediction R2 from 2.29% based on standard PRS to 3.1% (P=0.0017) and incorporating functional annotation data further improved R2 to 3.53% (P=2.0E-5).  Our simulation studies provided further clarification why differential treatment of certain category of functional SNPs, even when shown to be highly enriched for GWAS-heritability, does not lead to proportionate improvement in genetic risk-prediction due to non-uniform linkage disequilibrium structure.', u"The type III secretion system transports effector proteins of pathogenic and endosymbiotic Gram-negative bacteria into the cytoplasm of host cells. During infection, effectors convert host resources to work to bacterial advantage. Existing computational methods for the prediction of type III effectors mainly employ information encoded in the N-terminal protein sequence. Here we introduce pEffect, a method that predicts type III effector proteins using the entire amino acid sequence. It combines homology-based inference with de novo predictions, reaching 87+-7% accuracy at 95+-5% coverage for a large non-redundant set of proteins. This performance is up to 3-fold higher than that of other methods. pEffect also sheds new light on effector secretion mechanisms. We establish that 'signals' for the recognition of type III effectors are distributed over the entire protein sequence instead of being confined to the N-terminus. Our method, therefore, maintains high performance even when used with sequence fragments like metagenomic reads, and potentially facilitates studies of microbial community interactions. Explorations into the evolutionary origins of type III secretion identify a variety of recently evolved effectors and highlight the possibility of type III secretion ancestor dating to times prior to the archaea/bacteria split. pEffect is available at http://www.bromberglab.org/services/pEffect.", u'While there is no doubt among evolutionary biologists that all living species, or merely all living species within a particular group (e.g., animals), share descent from a common ancestor, formal statistical methods for evaluating common ancestry from aligned DNA sequence data have received criticism. One primary criticism is that prior methods take sequence similarity as evidence for common ancestry while ignoring other potential biological causes of similarity, such as functional constraints. We present a new statistical framework to test separate ancestry versus common ancestry that avoids this pitfall. We illustrate the efficacy of our approach using a recently published large molecular alignment to examine common ancestry of all primates (including humans).\n\nWe find overwhelming evidence against separate ancestry and in favor of common ancestry for orders and families of primates. We also find overwhelming evidence that humans share a common ancestor with other primate species. The novel statistical methods presented here provide formal means to test separate ancestry versus common ancestry from aligned DNA sequence data while accounting for functional constraints that limit nucleotide base usage on a site-by-site basis.', u"Despite the central role that antibodies play in the adaptive immune system and in biotechnology, much remains unknown about the quantitative relationship between an antibody's amino acid sequence and its antigen binding affinity. Here we describe a new experimental approach, called Tite-Seq, that is capable of measuring binding titration curves and corresponding affinities for thousands of variant antibodies in parallel. The measurement of titration curves eliminates the confounding effects of antibody expression and stability inherent to standard deep mutational scanning assays. We demonstrate Tite-Seq on the CDR1H and CDR3H regions of a well-studied scFv antibody. Our data sheds light on the structural basis for antigen binding affinity, and suggests a dominant role for CDR1H in establishing antibody stability. Tite-Seq fills a large gap in the ability to measure critical aspects of the adaptive immune system, and can be readily used for studying sequence-affinity landscapes in other protein systems.", u'We consider the general problem of absolute discrimination between categories of ligands irrespective of their concentration. An instance of this problem is immune discrimination between self and not-self. We connect this problem to biochemical adaptation, and establish that ligand antagonism - the ability of sub threshold ligands to negatively impact response - is a necessary consequence of absolute discrimination.Thus antagonism constitutes a \u201cphenotypic spandrel\u201d: a phenotype existing as a necessary by-product of another phenotype.  We exhibit a simple analytic model of absolute discrimination displaying ligand antagonism, where antagonism strength is linear in  distance from threshold.  This contrasts with proofreading based models, where antagonism vanishes far from threshold and thus displays  an inverted hierarchy of antagonism compared to simple model . The phenotypic spandrel studied here is expected to structure many decision pathways such as immune detection mediated by TCRs and  Fc\u03f5RIs.', u'The orientation of a visual grating can be decoded from human primary visual cortex (V1) using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) at conventional resolutions (2-3 mm voxel width, 3T scanner). It is unclear to what extent this information originates from different spatial scales of neuronal selectivity, ranging from orientation columns to global areal maps. According to the global-areal-map account, fMRI orientation decoding relies exclusively on fMRI voxels in V1 exhibiting a radial or vertical preference. Here we show, by contrast, that 2-mm isotropic voxels in a small patch of V1 within a quarterfield representation exhibit reliable opposite selectivities. Sets of voxels with opposite selectivities are locally intermingled and each set can support orientation decoding. This indicates that global areal maps cannot fully account for orientation information in fMRI and demonstrates that fMRI also reflects fine-grained patterns of neuronal selectivity.', u'Accurate detection of the human metaphase chromosome centromere is an critical element of cytogenetic diagnostic techniques, including chromosome enumeration, karyotyping and radiation biodosimetry. Existing image processing methods can perform poorly in the presence of irregular boundaries, shape variations and premature sister chromatid separation, which can adversely affect centromere localization. We present a centromere detection algorithm that uses a novel profile thickness measurement technique on irregular chromosome structures defined by contour partitioning. Our algorithm generates a set of centromere candidates which are then evaluated based on a set of features derived from images of chromosomes. Our method also partitions the chromosome contour to isolate its telomere regions and then detects and corrects for sister chromatid separation. When tested with a chromosome database consisting of 1400 chromosomes collected from 40 metaphase cell images, the candidate based centromere detection algorithm was able to accurately localize 1220 centromere locations yielding a detection accuracy of 87%. We also introduce a Candidate Based Centromere Confidence (CBCC) metric which indicates an approximate confidence value of a given centromere detection and can be readily extended into other candidate related detection problems.', u'Background: Geosmithia morbida is a filamentous ascomycete that causes Thousand Cankers Disease in the eastern black walnut tree. This pathogen is commonly found in the western U.S.; however, recently the disease was also detected in several eastern states where the black walnut lumber industry is concentrated. G. morbida is one of two known phytopathogens within the genus Geosmithia, and it is vectored into the host tree via the walnut twig beetle. \nResults: We present the first de novo draft genome of G. morbida. It is 26.5 Mbp in length and contains less than 1% repetitive elements. The genome possesses an estimated 6,273 genes, 277 of which are predicted to encode proteins with unknown functions. Approximately 31.5% of the proteins in G. morbida are homologous to proteins involved in pathogenicity, and 5.6% of the proteins contain signal peptides that indicate these proteins are secreted.   \nConclusions: Several studies have investigated the evolution of pathogenicity in pathogens of agricultural crops; forest fungal pathogens are often neglected because research efforts are focused on food crops. G. morbida is one of the few tree phytopathogens to be sequenced, assembled and annotated. The first draft genome of G. morbida serves as a valuable tool for comprehending the underlying molecular and evolutionary mechanisms behind pathogenesis within the Geosmithia genus.\nKeywords: de novo genome assembly, pathogenesis, forest pathogen, black walnut, walnut twig beetle.', u'Molecular data concerning the involvement of the roots in the genetic pathways regulating floral transition are lacking. In this study, we performed global analyses of root transcriptome in Arabidopsis in order to identify flowering time genes that are expressed in the roots and genes that are differentially expressed in the roots during the induction of flowering. Data mining of public microarray experiments uncovered that about 200 genes whose mutation was reported to alter flowering time are expressed in the roots but only few flowering integrators were found. Transcriptomic analysis of the roots during synchronized induction of flowering by a single 22-h long day revealed that 595 genes were differentially expressed. A delay in clock gene expression was observed upon extension of the photoperiod. Enrichment analyses of differentially expressed genes in root tissues, gene ontology categories and cis-regulatory elements converged towards sugar signaling. We inferred that roots are integrated in systemic signaling whereby carbon supply coordinates growth at the whole plant level during the induction of flowering.', u'The power spectrum of brain electric field potential recordings is dominated by an arrhythmic broadband signal but a mechanistic account of its underlying neural network dynamics is lacking. Here we show how the broadband power spectrum of field potential recordings can be explained by a simple random network of nodes near criticality. Such a recurrent network produces activity with a combination of a fast and a slow autocorrelation time constant, with the fast mode corresponding to local dynamics and the slow mode resulting from recurrent excitatory connections across the network. These modes are combined to produce a power spectrum similar to that observed in human intracranial EEG (i.e., electrocorticography, ECoG) recordings. Moreover, such a network naturally converts input correlations across nodes into temporal autocorrelation of the network activity. Consequently, increased independence between nodes results in a reduction in low-frequency power, which offers a possible explanation for observed changes in ECoG power spectra during task performance. Lastly, changes in network coupling produce changes in network activity power spectra reminiscent of those seen in human ECoG recordings across different arousal states. This model thus links macroscopic features of the empirical ECoG power spectrum to a parsimonious underlying network structure and proposes potential mechanisms for changes in ECoG power spectra observed across behavioral and arousal states. This provides a computational framework within which to generate and test hypotheses about the cellular and network mechanisms underlying whole brain electrical dynamics, their variations across behavioral states as well as abnormalities associated with brain diseases.', u'Neptune locates genomic signatures using an exact k-mer matching strategy while accommodating k-mer mismatches. The software identifies sequences that are sufficiently represented within "inclusion targets" and sufficiently absent from "exclusion targets". The signature discovery process is accomplished using probabilistic models instead of heuristic strategies. We have evaluated Neptune on Listeria monocytogenes and Escherichia coli genome data sets and found that signatures identified from these experiments are sensitive and specific to their respective data sets. In addition, the identified loci provide a catalog of differential loci for research of group-specific traits. Neptune has broad implications in microbial characterization for public health applications due to its efficient ad hoc signature discovery based upon differential genomics.', u'Understanding the structure and dynamics of cortical connectivity is vital to understanding cortical function. Experimental data strongly suggest that local recurrent connectivity in the cortex is significantly non-random, exhibiting, for example, above-chance bidirectionality and an overrepresentation of certain triangular motifs. Additional evidence suggests a significant distance dependency to connectivity over a local scale of a few hundred microns, and particular patterns of synaptic turnover dynamics, including a heavy-tailed distribution of synaptic efficacies, a power law distribution of synaptic lifetimes, and a tendency for stronger synapses to be more stable over time. Understanding how many of these non-random features simultaneously arise would provide valuable insights into the development and function of the cortex. While previous work has modeled some of the individual features of local cortical wiring, there is no model that begins to comprehensively account for all of them. We present a spiking network model of a rodent Layer 5 cortical slice which, via the interactions of a few simple biologically motivated intrinsic, synaptic, and structural plasticity mechanisms, qualitatively reproduces these non-random effects when combined with simple topological constraints. Our model suggests that mechanisms of self-organization arising from a small number of plasticity rules provide a parsimonious explanation for numerous experimentally observed non-random features of recurrent cortical wiring. Interestingly, similar mechanisms have been shown to endow recurrent networks with powerful learning abilities, suggesting that these mechanism are central to understanding both structure and function of cortical synaptic wiring.', u'Here we present a next generation sequencing approach for use in ecological studies which allows for individual level sample tracking through the use of hierarchically organised molecular identification tags. We demonstrate its utility on a sample data set examining levels of parasitism in a recently arrived invasive species in the UK and discuss further possibilities for our approach in ecology and evolution.', u'Quantitative relations in protein and RNA folding are deduced from the quantum folding theory of macromolecules. It includes: deduction of the law on the temperature-dependence of folding rate and its tests on protein dataset; study on the chain-length dependence of the folding rate for a large class of biomolecules; deduction of the statistical relation of folding free energy versus chain-length; and deduction of the statistical relation between folding rate and chain length and its test on protein and RNA dataset. In the above quantum approach the influence of the solvent environment factor on folding rate has been taken into account automatically. The successes of the deduction of these new relations from the first principle and their successful comparison with experimental data afford strong evidence on the possible existence of a common quantum mechanism in the conformational change of biomolecules.', u'Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNA) can act as a scaffold promoting the interaction of several proteins, RNA and DNA. Some lncRNAs interact with the DNA via a triple helix formation. Triple helices are formed by a single stranded RNA/DNA molecule, which binds to the major groove of a double helix following a canonical code. Recently, sequence analysis methods have been proposed to detect triple helices for a given RNA and DNA sequences. We propose the Triplex Domain Finder (TDF) to detect DNA binding domains in RNA molecules. For a candidate lncRNA and potential target DNA regions, i.e. promoter of genes differentially regulated after the knockdown of the lncRNA, TDF evaluates whether particular RNA regions are likely to form DNA binding domains (DBD). Moreover, the DNA binding sites from the predicted DBDs are used to indicate potential target DNA regions, i.e. genes with high binding site coverage in their promoter. The command line tool provides results on a user friendly and graphical html interface. A case study on FENDRR, an lncRNA known to form triple helices, demonstrates that TDF is able to recover both previously discovered DBDs and DNA binding sites. Source code, tutorial and case studies are available at www.regulatory-genomics.org/tdf.', u'Summary: Microbial functional diversification is driven by environmental factors. In some cases, microbes differ more across environments than across taxa. We have recently developed fusion+, a network-based method for comparing microbial functionality on the basis of whole proteome sequences. Here we introduce fusionDB, a novel database of microbial functional similarities, indexed by available environmental preferences. fusionDB entries represent nearly fourteen hundred taxonomically-distinct bacteria annotated with available metadata: habitat/niche, preferred temperature, and oxygen use. Each microbe is encoded as a set of functions represented by its proteome and individual microbes are connected via common functions. Any given database search produces an easily visualizable XML-formatted network file of selected organisms, displaying functions shared by the selected organisms. fusionDB thus provides a fast means of associating specific environmental factors with organism functions. \nAvailability: http://bromberglab.org/databases/fusiondb and as a sql-dump by request.\nContact: czhu@bromberglab.org, ymahlich@bromberglab.org', u'Whole cell biosensors have great potential to be used as diagnostic and treatment tools in biomedical applications. Bacterial biosensors that respond to specific metabolites can help analyze spatio-temporal gradients in the body or cue expression of therapeutic agents in diseased sites. In this study, we developed an acetoacetate bacterial sensor by inserting the promoter of the atoSC two-component system (TCS) into a promoterless GFP expression plasmid and transformed it into E. coli DH5\u03b1 and E. coli Nissle 1917, which both contain the atoSC TCS. This bacterial biosensor has a dynamic range of 0.01-1mM of acetoacetate, which is within the range of physiological concentrations in the blood, and exhibits up to a 100-fold change of induced GFP expression as measured by relative fluorescence. Comparing combinations among the two host strains and high/low-copy plasmid variations of the biosensor, we observed the fastest and highest response to acetoacetate with the E. coli Nissle 1917 low copy plasmid biosensor. Induction experiments on the biosensor using 50mM of the short chain fatty acids (SCFA) acetate, proprionate, and butyrate showed no response, indicating its specificity between acetoacetate and SCFAs. This acetoacetate bacterial sensor is a valuable contribution to the library of biosensors that may eventually be used for in vivo clinical applications.', u'Parasites can take over their hosts and trigger dramatic changes in host appearance and behaviour that are typically interpreted as extended phenotypes to promote parasite survival and fitness. For example, Toxoplasma gondii manipulates the behaviour of infected rodents to aid transmission to cats and parasitic trematodes of the genus Ribeiroia alter limb development in their amphibian hosts to facilitate predation by birds. Plant parasites and pathogens also reprogram host development and morphology. Phytoplasma parasites of plants induce extensive leaf-like flower phenotype (phyllody) in their host plants, presumably to attract insect vectors on which these bacteria depend for transmission. However, it remains debatable whether morphological phenotypes, such as phyllody, are directly beneficial to the parasites or are side-products of parasite infection. Previously, we found that phytoplasma virulence protein (effector) SAP54 binds and mediates degradation of host MADS-box transcription factors (MTFs), regulatory hubs of plant development and hormone physiology, to induce phyllody and promote insect vector colonisation. Here we show that plants heterologously expressing SAP54 are strongly attractive to insects, but surprisingly, insect attraction was independent of the presence of leaf-like flowers. Moreover, plants that produce leaf-like flowers in the absence of SAP54 did not attract insects. We conclude that the SAP54 effector mediates insect vector attraction in host plants by exploiting the role of its MTF targets in insect defence and that perturbation of floral development may be a secondary effect of the effector activity.', u"Physical interactions between genomic regions play critical roles in the regulation of genome functions, including gene expression. However, the methods for confidently detecting physical interactions between genomic regions remain limited. Here, we demonstrate the feasibility of using engineered DNA-binding molecule-mediated chromatin immunoprecipitation (enChIP) in combination with next-generation sequencing (NGS) (enChIP-Seq) to detect such interactions. In enChIP-Seq, the target genomic region is captured by an engineered DNA-binding complex, such as a CRISPR system consisting of a catalytically inactive form of Cas9 (dCas9) and a single guide RNA (sgRNA). Subsequently, the genomic regions that physically interact with the target genomic region in the captured complex are sequenced by NGS. Using enChIP-Seq, we found that the 5'HS5 locus, which regulates expression of the \u03b2-globin genes, interacts with multiple genomic regions upon erythroid differentiation in the human erythroleukemia cell line K562. Genes near the genomic regions inducibly associated with the 5'HS5 locus were transcriptionally up-regulated in the differentiated state, suggesting the existence of a coordinated transcription mechanism directly or indirectly mediated by physical interactions between these loci. Our data suggest that enChIP-Seq is a potentially useful tool for detecting physical interactions between genomic regions in a non-biased manner, which would facilitate elucidation of the molecular mechanisms underlying regulation of genome functions.", u'Inferring the ancestral dynamics of effective population size is a long-standing question in population genetics, which can now be tackled much more accurately thanks to the massive genomic data available in many species. Several promising methods that take advantage of whole-genome sequences have been recently developed in this context. However, they can only be applied to rather small samples, which limits their ability to estimate recent population size history. Besides, they can be very sensitive to sequencing or phasing errors. Here we introduce a new approximate Bayesian computation approach named PopSizeABC that allows estimating the evolution of the effective population size through time, using a large sample of complete genomes. This sample is summarized using the folded allele frequency spectrum and the average zygotic linkage disequilibrium at different bins of physical distance, two classes of statistics that are widely used in population genetics and can be easily computed from unphased and unpolarized SNP data. Our approach provides accurate estimations of past population sizes, \nfrom the very first generations before present back to the expected time to the most recent common ancestor of the sample, as shown by simulations under a wide range of demographic scenarios. When applied to samples of 15 or 25 complete genomes in four cattle breeds (Angus, Fleckvieh, Holstein and Jersey), PopSizeABC revealed a series of population declines, related to historical events such as domestication or modern breed creation. We further highlight that our approach is robust to sequencing errors, provided summary statistics are computed from SNPs with common alleles.', u'Adaptation of pest species to laboratory conditions and selection for resistance to toxins in the laboratory are expected to cause inbreeding and genetic bottlenecks that reduce genetic variation.  Heliothis virescens, a major cotton pest, has been colonized in the laboratory many times, and a few laboratory colonies have been selected for Bt resistance. We developed 350 bp Double-Digest Restriction-site Associated DNA-sequencing (ddRAD-seq) molecular markers to examine and compare changes in genetic variation associated with laboratory adaptation, artificial selection, and inbreeding in this non-model insect species.  We found that allelic and nucleotide diversity declined dramatically in laboratory-reared H. virescens as compared with field-collected populations.  The declines were primarily due to the loss of low frequency alleles present in field-collected H. virescens.  A further, albeit modest decline in genetic diversity was observed in a Bt-selected population.  The greatest decline was seen in H. virescens that were sib-mated for 10 generations, where more than 80% of loci were fixed for a single allele.  To determine which regions of the genome were resistant to fixation in our sib-mated line, we generated a dense intraspecific linkage map containing 3 PCR-based, and 659 ddRAD-seq markers. Markers that retained polymorphism were observed in small clusters spread over multiple linkage groups, but this clustering was not statistically significant.  Here, we confirmed and extended the general expectations for reduced genetic diversity in laboratory colonies, provided tools for further genomic analyses, and produced highly homozygous genomic DNA for future whole genome sequencing of H. virescens.', u'A central aim of evolutionary genomics is to identify the relative roles that various evolutionary forces have played in generating and shaping genetic variation within and among species. Here we use whole-genome re-sequencing data to characterize and compare genome-wide patterns of nucleotide polymorphism, site frequency spectrum and population-scaled recombination rates in three species of Populus: P. tremula, P. tremuloides and P. trichocarpa. We find that P. tremuloides has the highest level of genome-wide variation, skewed allele frequencies and population-scaled recombination rates, whereas P. trichocarpa harbors the lowest. Our findings highlight multiple lines of evidence suggesting that natural selection, both due to purifying and positive selection, has widely shaped patterns of nucleotide polymorphism at linked neutral sites in all three species. Differences in effective population sizes and rates of recombination are largely explaining the disparate magnitudes and signatures of linked selection we observe among species. The present work provides the first phylogenetic comparative study at genome-wide scale in forest trees. This information will also improve our ability to understand how various evolutionary forces have interacted to influence genome evolution among related species.', u'Transcriptional enhancers are non-coding segments of DNA that play a central role in the spatiotemporal regulation of gene expression programs. However, systematically and precisely predicting enhancers on a genome-wide scale remain a major challenge. Although existing methods have achieved some success in enhancer prediction, they still suffer from a limited number of training samples, a simplicity of features, class-imbalanced data, and inconsistent performance across diverse cell types/tissues. Here, we developed a deep learning-based algorithmic framework named PEDLA (https://github.com/wenjiegroup/PEDLA), which can directly learn an enhancer predictor from massively heterogeneous data and generalize in ways that are mostly consistent across various cell types/tissues. We first trained PEDLA with 1,114-dimensional heterogeneous features in H1 cells, and we demonstrated that our PEDLA framework integrates diverse heterogeneous features and gives state-of-the-art performance relative to five existing methods for enhancer prediction. We further extended PEDLA to continuously learn from 22 training cell types/tissues, and the results showed that PEDLA manifested superior performance consistency in both training and independent test sets. On average, PEDLA achieved 95.0% accuracy and a 96.8% geometric mean (GM) across 22 training cell types/tissues, as well as 95.7% accuracy and a 96.8% GM across 20 independent test cell types/tissues. Together, our work illustrates the power of harnessing state-of-the-art deep learning techniques to consistently identify regulatory elements at a genome-wide scale from massively heterogeneous data across diverse cell types/tissues.', u'BACKGROUND:  Highly multiplexed assays for quantitation of RNA transcripts are being used in many areas of biology and medicine.  Using data generated by these transcriptomic assays requires measurement assurance with appropriate controls. Methods to prototype and evaluate multiple RNA controls were developed as part of the External RNA Controls Consortium (ERCC) assessment process.  These approaches included a modified Latin square design to provide a broad dynamic range of relative abundance with known differences between four complex mixtures of ERCC RNA transcripts spiked into a human liver total RNA background.\n\nRESULTS:  ERCC mixtures were analyzed on four different microarray platforms: Agilent 1- and 2-color, Illumina bead, and NIAID lab-made spotted microarrays; and two different second-generation sequencing platforms: the Life Technologies 5500xl and the Illumina HiSeq 2500.  Individual ERCCs were assessed for reproducible performance in signal response to concentration among the platforms.  Most demonstrated linear behavior if they were not located near one of the extremes of the dynamic range.  Performance issues with any individual ERCC transcript could be attributed to detection limitations, platform-specific target probe issues, or potential mixing errors.  Collectively, these mixtures of spike-in RNA controls were evaluated for suitability as surrogates for endogenous transcripts to interrogate the performance of the RNA measurement process of each platform.  The controls were useful for establishing the dynamic range of the assay, as well as delineating the useable region of that range where differential expression measurements, expressed as ratios, would be expected to be accurate.  \n\nCONCLUSIONS:  The modified Latin square design presented here uses a composite testing scheme for the evaluation of multiple performance characteristics: linear performance of individual controls, signal response within dynamic range pools of controls, and ratio detection between pairs of dynamic range pools.  This compact design provides an economical sample format for the evaluation of multiple external RNA controls within a single experiment per platform.  These results indicate that well-designed mixtures of RNA controls, spiked-into samples, provide measurement assurance for endogenous gene expression experiments.', u'HOT (high-occupancy target) regions, which are bound by surprisingly large number of transcription factors, are considered to be among the most intriguing findings of recent years. Improved understanding of the roles that HOT regions play in biology would be afforded by knowing the constellation of factors that constitute these domains and by identifying HOT regions across the spectrum of human cell types. We describe here the population of transcription factors, cofactors, chromatin regulators, and transcription apparatus occupying HOT regions in embryonic stem cells (ESCs) and demonstrate that HOT regions are highly transcribed. We produce a catalogue of HOT regions in a broad range of human cell types and find that HOT regions are associated with genes that control and define the developmental processes of the respective cell and tissue types. We also show evidence of the developmental persistence of HOT regions at primitive enhancers and demonstrate unique signatures of HOT regions that distinguish them from typical enhancers and super-enhancers. Thus, HOT regions play key roles in human cell development and differentiation.', u'Mergeomics is a computational pipeline (http://mergeomics.research.idre.ucla.edu/Download/Package/) that integrates multidimensional omics-disease associations, functional genomics, canonical pathways and gene-gene interaction networks to generate mechanistic hypotheses. It first identifies biological pathways and tissue-specific gene subnetworks that are perturbed by disease-associated molecular entities. The disease-associated subnetworks are then projected onto tissue-specific gene-gene interaction networks to identify local hubs as potential key drivers of pathological perturbations. The pipeline is modular and can be applied across species and platform boundaries, and uniquely conducts pathway/network level meta-analysis of multiple genomic studies of various data types. Application of Mergeomics to cholesterol datasets revealed novel regulators of cholesterol metabolism.', u"Background. Biosynthetic potential of Actinobacteria has long been the subject of theoretical estimates. Such an estimate is indeed important as a test of further exploitability of a taxon or group of taxa for new therapeutics. As neither a set of available genomes nor a set of bacterial cultivation methods are static, it makes sense to simplify as much as possible and to improve reproducibility of biosynthetic gene clusters similarity, diversity, and abundance estimations.\nResults. We have developed a command-line computational pipeline (available at https://bitbucket.org/qmentis/clusterscluster/) that assists in performing empirical (genome-based) assessment of microbial secondary metabolite gene clusters similarity and abundance, and applied it to a set of 208 complete and de-duplicated Actinobacteria genomes. After a brief overview of Actinobacteria biosynthetic potential as compared to other bacterial taxa, we use similarity thresholds derived from 4 pairs of known similar gene clusters to identify up to 40-48% of 3247 gene clusters in our set of genomes as unique. There is no saturation of the cumulative unique gene clusters curve within the examined dataset, and Heap's alpha is 0.129, suggesting an open pan-clustome. We identify and highlight pitfalls and possible improvements of genome-based gene cluster similarity measurements.", u'Cooperation between DNA-binding proteins (DBPs) such as transcription factors and chromatin remodeling enzymes plays a pivotal role in regulating gene expression and other biological processes. Such cooperation is often via interaction between DBPs that bind to loci located distal in the linear genome but close in the 3D space, referred as trans-cooperation. Due to the lack of 3D chromosomal structure, identification of DBP cooperation has been limited to those binding to neighbor regions in the linear genome, referred as cis-cooperation. Here we present the first study that integrates protein ChIP-seq and Hi-C data to systematically identify both cis- and trans-cooperation between DBPs. We developed a new network model that allows identification of cooperation between multiple DBPs and reveals cell type specific or independent regulations. Particularly interesting, we have retrieved many known and previously unknown trans-cooperation between DBPs in the chromosomal loops that may be a key factor for influencing 3D chromosomal structure. The software is available at http://wanglab.ucsd.edu/star/DBPnet/index.html.', u'RNA-mediated oligonucleotide Annealing, Selection, and Ligation (RASL-seq) is a method to measure the expression of hundreds of genes in thousands of samples for a fraction of the cost of competing methods. However, enzymatic inefficiencies of the original protocol and the lack of open source software to design and analyze RASL-seq experiments have limited its widespread adoption. We recently reported an Rnl2-based RASL-seq protocol (RRASL-seq) that offers improved ligation efficiency and a probe decoy strategy to optimize sequencing usage. Here, we describe an open source software package, RASLseqTools, that provides computational methods to design and analyze RASL-seq experiments. Furthermore, using data from a large RRASL-seq experiment, we demonstrate how normalization methods can be used for characterizing and correcting experimental, sequencing, and alignment error. We provide evidence that the three principal predictors of RRASL-seq reproducibility are barcode/probe sequence dissimilarity, sequencing read depth, and normalization strategy. Using dozens of technical and biological replicates across multiple 384-well plates, we find simple normalization strategies yield similar results to more statistically complex methods.', u'Genomic sequencing assays such as ChIP-seq and DNase-seq can measure a wide variety of types of genomic activity, but the high cost of sequencing means that a panel of at most 3--10 assays is usually performed on each cell type.  Therefore, the choice of which assay types to perform is a crucial step in any genomics project.  We present submodular selection of assays (SSA), a method for choosing a diverse panel of genomic assays based on the observed pattern of correlations in existing assays.  The method optimizes over submodular functions, which are discrete set functions that have properties analogous to certain continuous convex functions.  SSA is computationally efficient, extremely flexible, and is theoretically optimal under certain assumptions.  We find that SSA chooses panels of assay types that measure diverse activities, in one case nearly exactly replicating the panel selection choice made by the Roadmap Epigenomics consortium.  To quantitatively evaluate SSA, we present a framework for evaluating the quality of a panel of assay types based on three common applications of genomics data sets: imputing assays that have not been performed, locating functional elements such as promoters and enhancers, and annotating the genome using a semi-automated method.  Using this framework, we find that panels chosen by SSA perform better than alternative strategies.  We therefore expect that SSA will replace manual selection as the first step of future genomics projects.  In addition, this application may serve as a model for how submodular optimization can be applied to other discrete problems in biology.', u'We critically revisit the \u2033common knowledge\u2033 that bacteria outnumber human cells by a ratio of at least 10:1 in the human body. We found the total number of bacteria in the \u2033reference man\u2033 to be 3.9\xb71013, with an uncertainty (SEM) of 25%, and a variation over the population (CV) of 52%. For human cells we identify the dominant role of the hematopoietic lineage to the total count of body cells (\u224890%), and revise past estimates to reach a total of 3.0\xb71013 human cells in the 70 kg \u2033reference man\u2033 with 2% uncertainty and 14% CV. Our analysis updates the widely-cited 10:1 ratio, showing that the number of bacteria in our bodies is actually of the same order as the number of human cells. Indeed, the numbers are similar enough that each defecation event may flip the ratio to favor human cells over bacteria.', u'The transmembrane semaphorin, Sema6A, has important roles in axon guidance, cell migration and neuronal connectivity in multiple regions of the nervous system, mediated by context-dependent interactions with plexin receptors, PlxnA2 and PlxnA4. Here, we demonstrate that Sema6A can also signal cell-autonomously, in two modes, constitutively, or in response to higher-order clustering mediated by either PlxnA2-binding or chemically induced multimerisation. Sema6A activation stimulates recruitment of Abl to the cytoplasmic domain of Sema6A and phosphorylation of this cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase, as well as phosphorylation of additional cytoskeletal regulators. Sema6A reverse signaling affects the surface area and cellular complexity of non-neuronal cells and aggregation and neurite formation of primary neurons in vitro. Sema6A also interacts with PlxnA2 in cis, which reduces binding by PlxnA2 of Sema6A in trans but not vice versa. These experiments reveal the complex nature of Sema6A biochemical functions and the molecular logic of the context-dependent interactions between Sema6A and PlxnA2.', u'Infantile encephalopathies are a group of clinically and biologically heterogeneous disorders for which the genetic basis remains largely unknown. Here, we report a previously unrecognized syndromic neonatal encephalopathy characterized by profound developmental disability, severe hypotonia, seizures, diminished respiratory drive requiring mechanical ventilation, brain atrophy, corpus callosum dysgenesis, cerebellar vermis hypoplasia, and facial dysmorphism. Biallelic inactivating mutations in TBCK (TBC1 domain-containing kinase) were independently identified by Whole-Exome Sequencing (WES) as the cause of this condition in four unrelated families. Matching these families was facilitated by sharing phenotypic profiles and WES data in a recently released web-based tool (Geno2MP) that links phenotypic information to rare variants in families with Mendelian traits. TBCK is a putative GTPase-activating protein (GAP) for small GTPases of the Rab family and has been shown to control cell growth and proliferation, actin cytoskeleton dynamics, and mTOR signaling. Two of the three mutations are predicted to truncate the protein (c.376C>T [p.Arg126*] and c.1363A>T [p.Lys455*]), and loss of the major TBCK isoform was confirmed in primary fibroblasts from one affected individual. The third mutation, c.1532G>A [p.Arg511His], alters a conserved residue within the TBC1 domain. Structural analysis implicates Arg511 as a required residue for Rab-GAP function, and in silico homology modeling predicts impaired GAP function in the corresponding mutant. These results suggest loss of Rab-GAP activity is the underlying mechanism of disease. In contrast to other disorders caused by dysregulated mTOR signaling associated with focal or global brain overgrowth, impaired TBCK function results in progressive loss of brain volume.', u'Learning is a fundamental biological adaptation that is widespread throughout the animal kingdom. According to previous research, two conditions are necessary for learning to be adaptive: between-generation environmental variability and within-generation environmental predictability. In this paper, we show that between-generation variability is not necessary, and that instrumental learning can provide a selective advantage in complex environments, where an individual is exposed to a large number of different challenges during its lifespan. We construct an evolutionary model where individuals have a memory with limited storage capacity, and an evolving trait determines the fraction of that memory that should be allocated to innate responses to the environment versus learning these responses. The evolutionarily stable level of learning depends critically on the environmental process, but generally increases with environmental complexity. Overall, our work sheds light on the importance of global structural properties of the environment in shaping the evolution of learning.', u'Rewarding experiences exert a strong influence on later decision making. While decades of neuroscience research have shown how reinforcement gradually shapes preferences, decisions are often influenced by single past experiences. Surprisingly, relatively little is known about the influence of single learning episodes. While recent work has proposed a role for episodes in decision making, it is largely unknown whether and how episodic experiences contribute to value-based decision making and how the values of single episodes are represented in the brain. In multiple behavioral experiments and an fMRI experiment, we tested whether and how rewarding episodes could support later decision making. Participants experienced episodes of high reward or low reward in conjunction with incidental, trial-unique neutral pictures. In a surprise test phase, we found that participants could indeed remember the associated level of reward, as evidenced by accurate source memory for value and preferences to re-engage with rewarded objects. Further, in a separate experiment, we found that high reward objects shown as primes before a gambling task increased financial risk-taking. Neurally, re-exposure to objects in the test phase led to significant reactivation of reward-related patterns. Importantly, individual variability in the strength of reactivation predicted value memory performance. Further, local searchlight analyses identified significant reactivation in the ventromedial PFC. Our results provide a novel demonstration that affect-related neural patterns are reactivated during later experience. Reactivation of value information represents a mechanism by which memory can guide decision making.', u'Transcription factors (TFs) regulate complex programs of gene transcription by binding to short DNA sequence motifs. Here we introduce rtfbsdb, a unified framework that integrates a database of more than 65,000 TF binding motifs with tools to easily and efficiently scan target genome sequences. Rtfbsdb clusters motifs with similar DNA sequence specificities and optionally integrates RNA-seq or PRO-seq data to restrict analyses to motifs recognized by TFs expressed in the cell type of interest.  Our package allows common analyses to be performed rapidly in an integrated environment.', u'The transcription factor Suppressor of Hairless and its co-activator, the Notch intracellular domain, are polyglutamine (pQ)-rich factors that target enhancer elements and interact with other locally-bound pQ-rich factors. To understand the functional repertoire of such enhancers, we identify conserved regulatory belts with binding sites for the pQ-rich effectors of both Notch and BMP/Dpp signaling, and the pQ-deficient tissue selectors Apterous (Ap), Scalloped (Sd), and Vestigial (Vg). We find that the densest such binding site cluster in the genome is located in the BMP-inducible nab locus, a homolog of the vertebrate transcriptional co-factors NAB1/NAB2. We report three major findings. First, we find that this nab regulatory belt is a novel enhancer driving dorsal wing margin expression in regions of peak phosphorylated-Mad in wing imaginal discs. Second, we show that Ap is developmentally required to license the nab dorsal wing margin enhancer (DWME) to read-out Notch signaling in the dorsal wing compartment. Third, we find that the nab DWME is embedded in a complex of intronic enhancers, including a wing quadrant enhancer, a proximal wing disc enhancer, and a larval brain enhancer. This enhancer complex coordinates global nab expression via both tissue-specific activation and inter-enhancer silencing. We suggest that DWME integration of BMP signaling maintains nab expression in proliferating margin descendants that have divided away from Notch-Delta boundary signaling. As such, uniform expression of genes like nab and vestigial in proliferating compartments would typically require both boundary and non-boundary lineage-specific enhancers.', u'Our daily lives revolve around sharing experiences and memories with others. When different people recount the same events, how similar are their underlying neural representations? In this study, participants viewed a fifty-minute audio-visual movie, then verbally described the events while undergoing functional MRI. These descriptions were completely unguided and highly detailed, lasting for up to forty minutes. As each person spoke, event-specific spatial patterns were reinstated (movie-vs.-recall correlation) in default network, medial temporal, and high-level visual areas; moreover, individual event patterns were highly discriminable and similar between people during recollection (recall-vs.-recall similarity), suggesting the existence of spatially organized memory representations. In posterior medial cortex, medial prefrontal cortex, and angular gyrus, activity patterns during recall were more similar between people than to patterns elicited by the movie, indicating systematic reshaping of percept into memory across individuals. These results reveal striking similarity in how neural activity underlying real-life memories is organized and transformed in the brains of different people as they speak spontaneously about past events.', u'Whole-genome sequencing provides a rapid and powerful method for identifying mutations on a global scale, and has spurred a renewed enthusiasm for classical genetic screens in model organisms. The most commonly characterized category of mutation consists of monogenic, recessive traits, due to their genetic tractability. Therefore, most of the mapping methods for mutation identification by whole-genome sequencing are directed toward alleles that fulfill those criteria (i.e., single-gene, homozygous variants). However, such approaches are not entirely suitable for the characterization of a variety of more challenging mutations, such as dominant and semi-dominant alleles or multigenic traits. Therefore, we have developed strategies for the identification of those classes of mutations, using polymorphism mapping in Caenorhabditis elegans as our model for validation. We also report an alternative approach for mutation identification from traditional recombinant crosses, and a solution to the technical challenge of sequencing sterile or terminally arrested strains where population size is limiting. The methods described herein extend the applicability of whole-genome sequencing to a broader spectrum of mutations, including classes that are difficult to map by traditional means.', u'Background: Despite recent efforts to sample broadly across metazoan and insect diversity, current sequence resources in the Coleoptera do not adequately describe the diversity of the clade. Here we present deep transcriptomic data generated with Illumina platform sequencing of a number of key stages in the development of two coleopteran species, the false melon beetle Atrachya menetriesi (Faldermann 1835) and the cowpea weevil Callosobruchus maculatus (Fabricius 1775). These species are both agricultural pests and are of great interest to developmental biology, as well as providing additional coleopteran datapoints for comparative genomic analysis.\nResults: By sampling at a range of timepoints covering ovary development and several crucial phases of embryonic development we assembled five and three timed transcriptomes for A. menetriesi and C. maculatus, respectively. We utilized this sequence data to build a transcriptomic resource combining all reads into a single, combined assembly for each species, and we analysed each of these resources in detail. The combined A. menetriesi assembly consists of 228,096 contigs with an N50 of 1,598 bp, while the combined C. maculatus assembly consists of 128,837 contigs with an N50 of 2,263 bp. For each of these assemblies, we identified 78,879 (34.6%) and 41,744 (32.4%) of contigs by BLASTx against the nr database using Blast2GO, and we found that 97% and 98.3% of the BUSCO set of metazoan orthologs were present in these assemblies. We also carried out manual analysis of 38 key developmental genes, and found that nearly all expected genes were present in our transcriptomes. Each of these analyses showed that these transcriptomes are of very high quality. Lastly, we performed read mapping using the individual timed RNA samples, allowing us to identify up- and down-regulated contigs at key stages in the development of these beetles for further analysis.\nConclusions: The data presented here represent a significant increase in the publicly available transcriptomic resources in the Coleoptera. They have also allowed us to note significant changes in expression at important embryonic stages, and will provide a firm basis for a variety of experimentation, both in developmental biology and in wider exploration of the genomic basis of growth and differentiation.', u'Drosophila melanogaster is an excellent model to explore the molecular exchanges that occur between an animal intestine and their microbial passengers. For example, groundbreaking studies in flies uncovered a sophisticated web of host responses to intestinal bacteria. The outcomes of these responses define critical events in the host, such as the establishment of immune responses, access to nutrients, and the rate of larval development. Despite our steady march towards illuminating the host machinery that responds to bacterial presence in the gut, we know remarkably little about the microbial products that influence bacterial association with a fly host. To address this deficiency, we sequenced and characterized the genomes of three common Drosophila-associated microbes: Lactobacillus plantarum, Lactobacillus brevis and Acetobacter pasteurianus. In each case, we compared the genomes of Drosophila-associated strains to the genomes of strains isolated from alternative sources. This approach allowed us to identify molecular functions common to Drosophila-associated microbes, and, in the case of A. pasteurianus, to identify genes that are essential for association with the host. Of note, many of the gene products unique to fly-associated strains have established roles in the stabilization of host-microbe interactions. We believe that these data provide a valuable starting point for a more thorough examination of the microbial perspective on host-microbe relationships.', u'The SBML layout extension enables SBML models to encode layout information which describes the graphical depiction of model elements. In this application note, we describe libSBNW, a portable library that supports the SBML layout extension and can automatically generate layout for SBML models. The library can be used to automatically generate layout information for SBML models lacking it, or to edit coordinate information already encoded in a model. We provide C and Python APIs to allow other applications to host the library or to use it directly from the Python console. We show that the library is sufficient for creating a graphical application for displaying and editing layout information. The library is open-source and licensed under the BSD 3-clause license. Project source code, downloads, documentation and binaries for Windows and Mac OS X are available at \\href{https://github.com/sys-bio/sbnw}{https://github.com/sys-bio/sbnw}. The library is also included in Tellurium, available at http://tellurium.analogmachine.org/. Video tutorials are available at http://0u812.github.io/sbnw/tutorials/.', u'Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) can be used to characterise differences in gene expression patterns between pre-specified populations of cells. Traditionally, differential expression tools are restricted to the study of changes in overall expression between cell populations. However, such analyses do not take full advantage of the rich information provided by scRNA-seq. In this article, we present a Bayesian hierarchical model which can be used to study changes in expression that lie beyond comparisons of means. In particular, our method can highlight genes that undergo changes in cell-to-cell heterogeneity between the populations but whose overall expression is preserved. Evidence supporting these changes is quantified using a probabilistic approach based on tail posterior probabilities, where a probability cut-off is calibrated through the expected false discovery rate. Our method incorporates a built-in normalisation strategy and quantifies technical artefacts by borrowing information from technical spike-in genes. Control experiments validate the performance of our approach. Finally, we compare expression patterns of mouse embryonic stem cells between different stages of the cell cycle, revealing substantial differences in cellular heterogeneity.', u'Double strand breaks (DBSs) promote multiple repair pathways and can give rise to different mutagenic processes. The propensity for activation directly affects genomic instability, with implications across health and evolution. However, the relative contribution of these mechanisms, their interplay and regulatory interactions remain to be fully elucidated. Here we present a new method to model the combined activation of non-homologous end joining, single strand annealing and alternative end joining. We use Bayesian statistics to integrate eight biological data sets of DSB repair curves under varying genetic knockouts. Analysis of the model suggests that there are at least three disjoint modes of repair, which we assign as fast slow and intermediate. Our results show that when multiple datasets are combined, the rate for intermediate repair is not constant amongst genetic knockouts. Further analysis suggests that the ratio between slow and intermediate repair depends on the presence or absence of DNAPKcs and Ku70. We outline how our insights can be directly tested using imaging and sequencing techniques and conclude that there is evidence of variable dynamics in alternative repair pathways. Our approach is an important step towards providing a unifying theoretical framework for the dynamics of DNA repair processes.', u'The engineering of transcriptional networks presents many challenges due to the inherent uncertainty in the system structure, changing cellular context and stochasticity in the governing dynamics. One approach to address these problems is to design and build systems that can function across a range of conditions; that is they are robust to uncertainty in their constituent components. Here we examine the robustness landscape of transcriptional oscillators, which underlie many important processes such as circadian rhythms and the cell cycle, plus also serve as a model for the engineering of complex and emergent phenomena. The central questions that we address are: Can we build genetic oscillators that are more robust than those already constructed? Can we make genetic oscillators arbitrarily robust? These questions are technically challenging due to the large model and parameter spaces that must be efficiently explored. Here we use a measure of robustness that coincides with the Bayesian model evidence combined with an efficient Monte Carlo method to traverse model space and concentrate on regions of high robustness, which enables the accurate evaluation of the relative structural robustness of gene network models governed by stochastic dynamics. We report the most robust two and three gene oscillator systems, plus examine how the number of interactions, the presence of auto-regulation, and degradation of mRNA and protein affects the frequency, amplitude and robustness of transcriptional oscillators. We also find that there is a limit to parametric robustness, beyond which there is nothing to be gained by adding additional feedback. Importantly, we provide predictions on new oscillator systems that can be constructed to verify the theory and advance design and modelling approaches to systems and synthetic biology.', u'1. The common ancestry of life is supported by an enormous body of evidence and is universally accepted within the scientific community. However, some potential sources of data that can be used to test the thesis of common ancestry have not yet been formally analyzed. \n2. We developed a new test of common ancestry based on nucleotide sequences at amino acid invariant sites in aligned homologous protein coding genes. We reasoned that since nucleotide variation at amino acid invariant sites is selectively neutral and, thus, unlikely to be due to convergent evolution, the observation that an amino acid is consistently encoded by the same codon sequence in different species could provide strong evidence of their common ancestry. Our method uses the observed variation in codon sequences at amino acid invariant sites as a test statistic, and compares such variation to that which is expected under three different models of codon frequency under the alternative hypothesis of separate ancestry. We also examine hierarchical structure in the nucleotide sequences at amino acid invariant sites and quantified agreement between trees generated from amino acid sequence and those inferred from the nucleotide sequences at amino acid invariant sites. \n3. When these tests are applied to the primate families as a test case, we find that observed nucleotide variation at amino acid invariant sites is considerably lower than nucleotide variation predicted by any model of codon frequency under separate ancestry. Phylogenetic trees generated from amino-acid invariant site nucleotide data agree with those generated from protein-coding data, and there is far more hierarchical structure in amino-acid invariant site data than would be expected under separate ancestry.\n4. We definitively reject the separate ancestry of the primate families, and demonstrate that our tests can be applied to any group of interest to test common ancestry.', u'Complete Populus genome sequences are available for the nucleus (P. trichocarpa; section Tacamahaca) and for chloroplasts (seven species), but not for mitochondria. Here, we provide the complete genome sequences of the chloroplast and the mitochondrion for the clones P. tremula W52 and P. tremula x P. alba 717-1B4 (section Populus). The organization of the chloroplast genomes of both Populus clones is described. A phylogenetic tree constructed from all available complete chloroplast DNA sequences of Populus was not congruent with the assignment of the related species to different Populus sections. In total, 3,024 variable nucleotide positions were identified among all compared Populus chloroplast DNA sequences. The 5-prime part of the LSC from trnH to atpA showed the highest frequency of variations. The variable positions included 163 positions with SNPs allowing for differentiating the two clones with P. tremula chloroplast genomes (W52, 717-1B4) from the other seven Populus individuals. These potential P. tremula-specific SNPs were displayed as a whole-plastome barcode on the P. tremula W52 chloroplast DNA sequence. Three of these SNPs and one InDel in the trnH-psbA linker were successfully validated by Sanger sequencing in an extended set of Populus individuals. The complete mitochondrial genome sequence of P. tremula is the first in the family of Salicaceae. The mitochondrial genomes of the two clones are 783,442 bp (W52) and 783,513 bp (717-1B4) in size, structurally very similar and organized as single circles. DNA sequence regions with high similarity to the W52 chloroplast sequence account for about 2% of the W52 mitochondrial genome. The mean SNP frequency was found to be nearly six fold higher in the chloroplast than in the mitochondrial genome when comparing 717-1B4 with W52. The availability of the genomic information of all three DNA-containing cell organelles will allow a holistic approach in poplar molecular breeding in the future.', u'Biomedical vocabularies and ontologies aid in recapitulating biological knowledge. The annotation of gene products is mainly accelerated by Gene Ontology (GO) and more recently by Medical Subject Headings (MeSH). Here we report the MeSH annotation of the chicken genome and illustrate some features of different MeSH-based analyses, including MeSH-informed enrichment analysis and MeSH-guided semantic similarity among terms and gene products, using two lists of chicken genes available in public repositories. The two published datasets that were employed represent (i) differentially expressed genes and (ii) candidate genes under selective sweep or epistatic selection. The comparison of MeSH with GO overrepresentation analyses suggested not only that MeSH supports the findings obtained from GO analysis but also that MeSH is able to further enrich the representation of biological knowledge and often provide more interpretable results. Based on the hierarchical structures of MeSH and GO, we computed semantic similarities among vocabularies as well as semantic similarities among selected genes. These yielded the similarity levels between significant functional terms, and the annotation of each gene yielded the measures of gene similarity. Our findings show the benefits of using MeSH as an alternative choice of annotation in order to draw biological inferences from a list of genes of interest, and we demonstrate that since it is based on keywords from published studies, it has the potential provide easily interpretable functional implications. We argue that the use of MeSH in conjunction with GO will be instrumental in facilitating the understanding of the genetic basis of complex traits.', u'New integrative approaches are needed to harness the potential of rapidly growing data sets of gene and protein expression and microbial taxonomic identification in colorectal cancer (CRC). Using reported data from human proteomic and microbial taxonomic studies, this study compares the average oxidation state of carbon (ZC) and water demand per residue (n\u0304H2O) of proteins from tumors to those in healthy tissues or less advanced cancer stages. The major compositional trends are lower ZC and, to a lesser extent, higher n\u0304H2O, in tumor vs normal groups, or carcinoma vs adenoma groups. Comparison of microbial protein compositions shows a small shift toward lower ZC in bacteria enriched in fecal samples from cancer patients. Thermodynamic calculations of the relative chemical stabilities of proteins show that the cancer-related proteins tend to be stabilized by higher chemical activity of H2O (more hydrating) and/or lower fugacity of O2 (more reducing). The compositional exploration of molecular data suggests that a systematic chemical transformation is a central aspect of the cancer proteome. The thermodynamic calculations highlight the potential for interpreting proteomic data within a biochemical context, and may contribute to a better understanding of the microenvironmental requirements for cancer initiation and progression.', u'Soil fungal communities in tropical regions remain poorly understood. In order to increase the knowledge of diversity of soil-inhabiting fungi, we extracted total DNA from top-organic soil collected in seven localities dominated by four major ecosystems in the tropical island of Puerto Rico. In order to comprehensively characterize the fungal community, we PCR-amplified the internal transcribed spacer 2 (ITS2) fungal barcode using newly designed degenerated primers and varying annealing temperatures to minimize primer bias. Sequencing results, obtained using Ion Torrent technology, comprised a total of 566,613 sequences after quality filtering. These sequences were clustered into 4,140 molecular operational taxonomic units (MOTUs) after removing low frequency sequences and rarefaction to account for differences in read depth between samples. Our results demonstrate that soil fungal communities in Puerto Rico are structured by ecosystem. Ascomycota, followed by Basidiomycota, dominates the diversity of fungi in soil. Amongst Ascomycota, the recently described soil-inhabiting class Archaeorhizomycetes was present in all localities, and taxa in Archaeorhizomycetes were among the most commonly observed MOTUs. The Basidiomycota community was dominated by soil decomposers and ectomycorrhizal fungi with a distribution strongly affected by local variation to a greater degree than Ascomycota', u'We evaluate the feasibility of using a biological sample\u2019s transcriptome to predict its genome-wide regulatory element activities measured by DNase I hypersensitivity (DH). We develop BIRD, Big Data Regression for predicting DH, to handle this high-dimensional problem. Applying BIRD to the Encyclopedia of DNA Element (ENCODE) data, we found that gene expression to a large extent predicts DH, and information useful for prediction is contained in the whole transcriptome rather than limited to a regulatory element\u2019s neighboring genes. We show that the predicted DH predicts transcription factor binding sites (TFBSs), prediction models trained using ENCODE data can be applied to gene expression samples in Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) to predict regulome, and one can use predictions as pseudo-replicates to improve the analysis of high-throughput regulome profiling data. Besides improving our understanding of the regulome-transcriptome relationship, this study suggests that transcriptome-based prediction can provide a useful new approach for regulome mapping.', u'Conventional high-throughput technologies for mapping regulatory element activities such as ChIP-seq, DNase-seq and FAIRE-seq cannot analyze samples with small number of cells. The recently developed ATAC-seq allows regulome mapping in small-cell-number samples, but its signal in single cell or samples with \u2264500 cells remains discrete or noisy. Compared to these technologies, measuring transcriptome by RNA-seq in single-cell and small-cell-number samples is more mature. Here we show that one can globally predict chromatin accessibility and infer regulome using RNA-seq. Genome-wide chromatin accessibility predicted by RNA-seq from 30 cells is comparable with ATAC-seq from 500 cells. Predictions based on single-cell RNA-seq can more accurately reconstruct bulk chromatin accessibility than using single-cell ATAC-seq by pooling the same number of cells. Integrating ATAC-seq with predictions from RNA-seq increases power of both methods. Thus, transcriptome-based prediction can provide a new tool for decoding gene regulatory programs in small-cell-number samples.', u'For the first time we apply a new method based on the mathematical derivation of some known isotherm\nfrom the Burr function which describes many birth-death (sorption-desorption) phenomena in ecology and\neconomy. Therefore, in this study the experimental isotherm data of biosorption of Pb(II) onto algae was modeled to Langmuir, Hill-Sips, Brouers-Sotolongo, Brouers-Gaspard, and Redlich-Peterson isotherm models.\nThe parameters of each model were determined by nonlinear fitting algorithms using Mathematica program.\nThe maximum Pb(II) removal rate increased with the increase of temperature and reached the maximum\nvalue (98%) at the temperature of 40 C. The results showed that the Hill-Sips and the Brouers-Sotolongo\nisotherms were definitely the most suitable models to satisfactorily describe biosorption of Pb(II) on the algal\nbiomass. In addition, as these two models gave very close results, the use of an intermediate one the Brouers-Gaspard isotherm model could also describe the sorption in most cases. High coefficient of determination values was obtained by using nonlinear methods and these findings are contrary to most works in this field that use\nlinearization methods. Further, this study showed that a complete set of data is necessary to have a good representation of the isotherm and using only coefficient of determination is not always an adequate tool to compare the goodness of the nonlinear fit of an isotherm models.', u'High-throughput technologies have made it possible to perform genome-scale analyses to investigate a variety of research areas. From these analyses, vast amounts of data are generated. However, these data can be noisy, which could obscure the underlying signal. Here, a high-throughput regression analysis approach was developed, where a variety of linear and nonlinear parametric models were fitted to gene expression profiles from time course experiments. These models include the logistic, Gompertz, exponential, critical exponential, linear+exponential, Gaussian and linear functions. The fitted parameters from these models reflect aspects of the model shape, and thus allowed for the interpretation of gene expression profiles in terms of the underlying biology, such as the time of initial gene expression. This provides a potentially more mechanistic ap-proach to studying the genetic responses to stimuli. Together with a cluster analysis, termed ShapeCluster, it was possible to group genes based on these aspects of the expression profiles. By investigating different combinations of parameters, this added flexibility to the analysis and allowed for the investigation of the data in multiple ways, including the identification of groups of genes that may be co-regulated, or participate in response to the biological stress in question. Clusters from these methods were assessed for significance through the use of over-represented annotation terms and motifs, and found to pro-duce biologically relevant sets of genes. The ShapeCluster package is available from https://sourceforge.net/projects/shapecluster/.', u"Combining George C. Williams' idea that evolutionary constraints prevent asexual mutants from arising more frequently in low fecundity organisms, like mammals and birds, with an earlier one by David Lack that the brood size of these organisms has an optimum, and producing larger broods reduces their fitness, leads to a novel hypothesis about the maintenance of sex in them. All else equal, the eggs of an asexual mutant female should simply start developing without fertilisation, and there is no reason to assume that they would stop doing so after the optimal number of offspring has been produced. Without a way to control their reproductive output, asexual mutants should over-reproduce and suffer a cost of doing so. Experimental studies suggest that the cost of enlarged broods could limit the advantage of asexual mutants considerably. Moreover, research discovered that increased reproductive effort reduces immune functions of low fecundity organisms. This offers a surprising synthesis between Williams' constraint and Hamilton's parasite hypothesis on maintaining sex in low fecundity organisms: Compromised immune functions of asexual hosts may render them susceptible rather than adaptation on the side of parasites to overcome host resistance.", u"In previous work we created a mathematical model and identified a major source of distortion in Cochlear Implant(CI) processing which manifests itself in three forms, all of which are due to the nonlinear envelope processing algorithms which are widely used in some form or another in many current models. The first are spectral gaps or dead zones within the claimed frequency coverage range. This means that there exist regions of the spectrum for which there is no possible input that can produce an output at those frequencies. The second are frequency transformations which convert input tones of one frequency to tones of another frequency. Because this is a many-to-one transformation, it renders following a melody impossible, as the fundamental frequency of two different notes may be mapped to the same output frequency. This makes them impossible to distinguish, (although there may be differences in higher order harmonics that we will discuss). The third type of distortion are intermodulation products between input tones which yield additional output tones that were not present in either input. In the case of multiple talkers, these will compound the comprehension difficulty, as not only are the original spectral components of each speaker transformed, but additional nonexistent components have been added into the mix. This accounts for the great difficulty of CI users in noise.\n\nIn this work, we extend our earlier work in three ways. First, we clarify our description of spectral gaps which a number of readers pointed out was unclear, in that it implied that certain input tones will produce no response at all. In fact, all input tones will produce a response, but in most cases, the output will be frequency-transformed to a different frequency which the CI is capable of producing. Second, we graphically illustrate the input/output frequency transformation, so that the reader can clearly see at a glance how each frequency is altered. The form of this transformation is a staircase over most of the usable range, meaning that for single, pure tones all frequencies in the passband of a particular channel are mapped to a single frequency--the center frequency of that channel. As frequency continues to increase, all frequencies in the passband of the next channel become mapped to the center frequency of that channel, and so on. The exception is in the low frequencies, for reasons that we discuss. Third, in our earlier work we analyzed the simple case of only two pure tones within a single channel. Here we extend to the more realistic case of mixtures of complex tones, such as musical notes or the vowels of speech which may each have multiple harmonics extending throughout much of the audible frequency range. We find that, as expected, the output components of a source within a single channel often clash (are dissonant) with each other, and with those output components of that source (higher harmonics) which fall within other channels. So that instead of there being a harmonic or integral relationship among the output spectral components of each source, these components are no longer related to each other harmonically as they were at the input, thus producing a dissonant and grating percept. Furthermore, in the case two or more complex tones, additional intermodulation components are produced that further distort the sound. All these assertions are derived from theoretical considerations, and also noted from the author's own listening experience, and further confirmed from correspondence with other CI users.", u'Decision confidence is a forecast about the probability that a decision will be correct. Despite this description is suggestive of a potential statistical treatment, a theoretical foundation of subjective confidence evaluation is missing. Nevertheless, confidence can be framed as an objective mathematical quantity, the Bayesian posterior probability, providing a formal definition of statistical decision confidence. Here we use this definition as a starting point to develop a normative statistical framework for decision confidence. We analytically prove interrelations between statistical decision confidence and other observable decision measures. Among these is a counterintuitive property of confidence - that the lowest average confidence occurs when classifiers err in the presence of the strongest evidence. These results lay the foundations for a mathematically rigorous treatment of decision confidence that can lead to a common framework for understanding confidence across different research domains, from human behavior to neural representations.', u'A current challenge in data-driven mathematical modeling of cancer is identifying biologically-relevant parameters of mathematical models from sparse and often noisy experimental data of mixed types. We describe a cell cycle model and outline how to use the Optimization Toolbox in Matlab to estimate its timescale parameters, given flow cytometry and cell viability (synthetic) data, and illustrate the technique with simulated data. This technique can be similarly applied to a variety of cell cycle models, particularly as more laboratories begin to use high-content, quantitative cell screening and imaging platforms. An advanced version of this work (CellPD: cell line phenotype digitizer) will be released as open source in early 2016 at MultiCellDS.org.', u'Phylogenetic trees are routinely visualized to present and interpret the evolutionary relationships of the species that are being studied. \nVirtually all empirical evolutionary data studies contain a visualization of the inferred tree with support values using one of the popular and highly cited (e.g., TreeView, Dendroscope, FigTree, Archaeopteryx, etc.) tree viewing tools.\nAs a consequence, programming errors or ambiguous semantics in tree file formats \ncan lead to erroneous tree visualizations and consequently incorrect interpretations of phylogenetic analyses.\n\nHere, we discuss the problems that can and do arise when displaying branch support values on trees. Presumably for historical reasons, branch support values (e.g., bootstrap support or Bayesian posterior probabilities) are typically stored as node labels in the widely-used Newick tree format.\nHowever, support values are attributes of branches (bipartitions) in unrooted phylogenetic trees. Therefore, storing support values as node labels can potentially lead to incorrect support-value-to-bipartition mappings when re-rooting trees in tree viewers. This depends on the mostly implicit semantics of tree viewers for interpreting node labels. To assess the potential impact of these ambiguous and predominantly implicit semantics of support values, we analyzed 10 distinct tree viewers. We find that, most of them exhibit some sort of incorrect or unexpected behavior when re-rooting trees with support values. We find that Dendroscope interprets Newick node labels as simply that, node labels in Newick trees. \n\nHowever, if they are meant to represent branch support values, the support value to branch mapping is incorrect when re-rooting trees with Dendroscope.\nWe illustrate such an incorrect mapping by example of an empirical phylogenetic study.\n\nAs a solution, we suggest that \n(i) branch support values should exclusively be stored as meta-data associated to branches (and not nodes), \nand (ii) if this is not feasible, tree viewers should include a user dialogue that explicitly forces users to define \nif node labels shall be interpreted as node or branch labels, prior to tree visualization.', u'MyGene.info and MyVariant.info provide high-performance data APIs for querying gene and variant annotation information. They demonstrate a new model for organizing biological annotation information by utilizing a cloud-based scalable infrastructure. MyGene.info and MyVariant.info can be accessed at http://mygene.info and http://myvariant.info.', u'Background: Modern clinical trials in stroke reperfusion fall into two categories: alternative systemic pharmacological regimens to alteplase and rescue endovascular approaches using targeted thrombectomy devices and/or medications delivered directly for persistently vessel occlusions.  Clinical trials in stroke have not evaluated how initial pharmacological thrombolytic management might influence subsequent rescue strategy. A sequential multiple assignment randomized trial (SMART) is a novel trial design that can test these dynamic treatment regimens and lead to treatment guidelines which more closely mimic practice.\nAim: To characterize a SMART design in comparison to traditional approaches for stroke reperfusion trials. \nMethods: We conducted a numerical simulation study that evaluated the performance of contrasting acute stroke clinical trial designs of both initial reperfusion and rescue therapy. We compare a SMART design where the same patients are followed through initial reperfusion and rescue therapy within one trial to a standard phase III design comparing two reperfusion treatments and a separate phase II futility design of rescue therapy in terms of sample size, power, and ability to address particular research questions.\nResults: Traditional trial designs can be well powered and have optimal design characteristics for independent treatment effects. When treatments, such as the reperfusion and rescue therapies, may interact, commonly used designs fail to detect this. A SMART design, with similar sample size to standard designs, can detect treatment interactions.\nConclusions: The use of SMART designs to investigate effective and realistic dynamic treatment regimens is a promising way to accelerate the discovery of new, effective treatments for stroke.', u'Circulating cell-free DNA (cfDNA) is emerging as a powerful monitoring tool in cancer, pregnancy and organ transplantation. Nucleosomal DNA, the predominant form of cfDNA in blood, can be readily adapted for sequencing via ligation of double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) adapters. dsDNA library preparation, however, is insensitive to ultrashort, degraded and single-stranded cfDNA. Drawing inspiration from recent technical advances in ancient genome analyses, we have applied a single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) library preparation method to sequencing of cfDNA in the plasma of lung transplant recipients (40 samples, six patients). We found that the ssDNA library preparation yields a greater portion of sub-100 bp DNA, as well as an increased relative abundance of human mitochondrial cfDNA (10.7x) and microbial cfDNA (71.3x). We report the fragmentation pattern of mitochondrial, nuclear genomic and microbial cfDNA over a broad fragment length range. We furthermore report the first observation of donor-specific mitochondrial cfDNA in the circulation of lung transplant recipients. We found that donor-specific mitochondrial cfDNA molecules are significantly shorter than those specific to the recipient. The higher yield of viral, microbial and fungal sequences that result from the single-stranded ligation approach reduces the cost and increase the sensitivity of cfDNA-based monitoring for infectious complications after transplantation. An ssDNA library preparation method provides a more informative window into understudied forms of cfDNA, including mitochondrial and microbial derived cfDNA and short fragment nuclear genomic cfDNA, while retaining information provided by standard dsDNA library preparation methods.', u'To simulate the spatiotemporal distribution of chemical compounds, we present BioFVM, an open-source reaction-diffusion equation solver using finite volume methods with motivation for biological applications. With various numerical solvers, we can simulate the interaction of dozens of compounds, including growth substrates, drugs, and signaling compounds in 3-D tissues, with cells by treating them as various source/sink terms. BioFVM has linear computational cost scalings and demonstrates first-order accuracy in time and second-order accuracy in space. Beyond simulating the transport of drugs and growth substrates in tissues, the ability to simulate dozens of compounds should make 3-D simulations of multicellular secretomics feasible.', u"Multicellular simulations of tumor growth in complex 3-D tissues, where data come from high content in vitro and bioengineered experiments, have gained significant attention by the cancer modeling community in recent years. Agent-based models are often selected for these problems because they can directly model and track cells' states and their interactions with the microenvironment. We describe PhysiCell, a specific agent-based model that includes cell motion, cell cycling, and cell volume changes. The model has been performance tested on systems of 10^5 cells on desktop computers, and is expected to scale to 10^6 or more cells on single super-computer compute nodes. We plan an open source release of the software in early 2016 at PhysiCell.MathCancer.org.", u'The false discovery rate is one of the most commonly used error rates for measuring and controlling rates of false discoveries when performing multiple tests. Adaptive false discovery rates rely on an estimate of the proportion of null hypotheses among all the hypotheses being tested. This proportion is typically estimated once for each collection of hypotheses. Here we propose a regression framework to estimate the proportion of null hypotheses conditional on observed covariates. We provide both finite sample and asymptotic conditions under which this covariate-adjusted estimate is conservative - leading to appropriately conservative false discovery rate estimates. We demonstrate the viability of our approach through simulation and an application to estimating different prior probabilities for a range of sample sizes and allele frequencies in a GWAS meta-analysis.', u'Molecular simulations intended to compute equilibrium properties are often initiated from configurations that are highly atypical of equilibrium samples, a practice which can generate a distinct initial transient in mechanical observables computed from the simulation trajectory. Traditional practice in simulation data analysis recommends this initial portion be discarded to equilibration, but no simple, general, and automated procedure for this process exists. Here, we suggest a conceptually simple automated procedure that does not make strict assumptions about the distribution of the observable of interest, in which the equilibration time is chosen to maximize the number of effectively uncorrelated samples in the production timespan used to compute equilibrium averages. We present a simple Python reference implementation of this procedure, and demonstrate its utility on typical molecular simulation data.', u'We speculate that incoherent feedforward loops may be phenomenologically involved in self/nonself discrimination in immune-infection and immune-tumor interactions, acting as "change detectors".  In turn, this may result in logarithmic sensing (Weber phenomenon) and even scale invariance (fold-change detection).', u'Genomic variation across cancers scales with tissue stiffness:  meta-analyses show tumors in stiff tissues such as lung and bone exhibit up to 100-fold more variation than tumors in soft tissues such as marrow and brain. Here, nuclear lamina damage and DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) result from invasive migration of cancer cells through stiff constrictions. DSBs increase with lamin-A knockdown and require micro-pores sufficiently small for lamins to impede migration. Blebs in the vast majority of post-migration nuclei are enriched in lamin-A but deficient in lamin-B and an age-associated form of lamin-A.  Validation of DSBs by an electrophoretic comet assay calibrates against a cancer line having nuclease sites engineered in chromosome-1, and DSB-bound repair factors in nuclei pulled into constrictions show folded chromatin orients, extends, and concentrates without fragmentation. Mobile repair proteins simultaneously segregate away from pore-condensed chromatin. Global squeeze-out of repair factors and loss with lamin-A-dependent rupture explains why overexpression of repair factors cannot rescue DSBs in migration through stiff constrictions, ultimately favoring genomic variation.', u'Microscopic plankton form the productive base of both marine and freshwater ecosystems and are key drivers of global biogeochemical cycles of carbon and nutrients. Plankton diversity is immense with representations from all major phyla within the three domains of life. So far, plankton monitoring has mainly been based on microscopic identification, which has limited sensitivity and reproducibility, not least because of the numerical majority of plankton being unidentifiable under the light microscope. High-throughput sequencing of taxonomic marker genes offers a means to identify taxa inaccessible by traditional methods; thus, recent studies have unveiled an extensive previously unknown diversity of plankton. Here, we conducted ultra-deep Illumina sequencing (average 105 sequences/sample) of rRNA gene amplicons of surface water eukaryotic and bacterial plankton communities along a 2000 km transect following the salinity gradient of the Baltic Sea. Community composition was strongly correlated with salinity for both bacterial and eukaryotic plankton assemblages, highlighting the importance of salinity for structuring the biodiversity within this ecosystem. The distribution of major planktonic taxa followed expected patterns as observed in monitoring programs, but also novel groups to the Baltic were identified, such as relatives to the coccolithophore Emiliana huxleyi in the northern Baltic Sea. The deep sequencing also enabled accurate enumeration of highly resolved (> 99% identity) operational taxonomic units, which revealed contrasting distribution profiles among closely related populations, reflecting niche partitioning into ecotypes. This study provides the first ultra-deep sequencing-based survey on eukaryotic and bacterial plankton biogeography in the Baltic Sea.', u'The ability to quantify cellular heterogeneity is a major advantage of single-cell technologies.  Although understanding such heterogeneity is of primary interest in a number of studies, for convenience, statistical methods often treat cellular heterogeneity as a nuisance factor.  We present a novel method to characterize differences in expression in the presence of distinct expression states within and among biological conditions.  Using simulated and case study data, we demonstrate that the modeling framework is able to detect differential expression patterns of interest under a wide range of settings.  Compared to existing approaches, scDD has higher power to detect subtle differences in gene expression distributions that are more complex than a mean shift, and is able to characterize those differences.  The freely available R package scDD implements the approach.', u'The historic developmental hourglass concept depicts the convergence of animal embryos to a common form during the phylotypic period. Recently, it has been shown that a transcriptomic hourglass is associated with this morphological pattern, consistent with the idea of underlying selective constraints due to intense molecular interactions during body plan establishment. Although plants do not exhibit a morphological hourglass during embryogenesis, a transcriptomic hourglass has nevertheless been identified in the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana. Here, we investigated whether plant hourglass patterns are also found post-embryonically. We found that the two main phase changes during the life cycle of Arabidopsis, from embryonic to vegetative and from vegetative to reproductive development, are associated with transcriptomic hourglass patterns. In contrast, flower development, a process dominated by organ formation, is not. This suggests that plant hourglass patterns are decoupled from organogenesis and body plan establishment. Instead, they may reflect general transitions through organizational checkpoints.', u'Background: Repeated clusters of ribosomal genes whose activity results in the nucleolus formation are extremely important in multicellular organism genome. Despite the extensive exploration into vertebrate genomes, in many model objects the ribosomal cluster structure is still underinvestigated. So far, complete description for primary structure of avian ribosomal cluster has not  been reported. \nResults: This work represents the first successful assembly of complete chicken ribosome cluster sequence. The sequence was deposited to GenBank under accession number KT445934. The total cluster size from pre-rRNA transcriptional start site to the 3\u2032 end of 3\u2032ETS amounted to 11444 bp. 18S rRNA gene size is 1823 base pairs, 5.8S rRNA - 157 bp, 28S rRNA - 4443 bp. The 5\u2032ETS spacer core size is 1839 bp, 3\u2032ETS - about 350 bp., ITS1 - 2099 bp, and ITS2 - 733 bp. The assembly was validated through in situ fluorescent hybridization (FISH) analysis on metaphase chromosomes of chicken. ITS1 and ITS2 spacer sequences have been found to have high GC pair content and form secondary structures featuring high melting temperature.\nConclusions: Decoding of the chicken rRNA gene cluster sequence extends the use of birds as a model object for exploration into nucleolus organizer region (NOR) regulation and nucleolus functions, e.g. in ontogenesis. This data might also be useful to address certain problems of population and evolutionary genetics.', u"To efficiently learn from feedback, the cortical networks need to update synaptic weights on multiple levels of cortical hierarchy. An effective and well-known algorithm for computing such changes in synaptic weights is the error back-propagation. It has been successfully used in both machine learning and modelling of the brain's cognitive functions. However, in the back-propagation algorithm, the change in synaptic weights is a complex function of weights and activities of neurons not directly connected with the synapse being modified. Hence it has not been known if it can be implemented in biological neural networks. Here we analyse relationships between the back-propagation algorithm and the predictive coding model of information processing in the cortex, in which changes in synaptic weights are only based on activity of pre-synaptic and post-synaptic neurons. We show that when the predictive coding model is used for supervised learning, it performs very similar computations to the back-propagation algorithm. Furthermore, for certain parameters, the weight change in the predictive coding model converges to that of the back-propagation algorithm. This suggests that it is possible for cortical networks with simple Hebbian synaptic plasticity to implement efficient learning algorithms in which synapses in areas on multiple levels of hierarchy are modified to minimize the error on the output.", u'DNA regulatory elements contain short motifs where transcription factors (TFs) can bind to modulate gene expression. Although the broad principles of TF regulation are well understood, the rules that dictate how combinatorial TF binding translates into transcriptional activity remain largely unknown. With the rapid advances in DNA synthesis and sequencing technologies and the continuing decline in the associated costs, high-throughput experiments can be performed to investigate the regulatory role of thousands of oligonucleotide sequences simultaneously. Nevertheless, designing high-throughput reporter assay experiments such as Massively Parallel Reporter Assays (MPRAs) and similar methods remains challenging. We introduce MPRAnator, a set of tools that facilitate rapid design of MPRA experiments. With MPRA Motif design, a set of variables provides fine control of how motifs are placed into sequences therefore allowing the user to investigate the rules that govern TF occupancy. MPRA SNP design can be used to investigate the functional effects of single or combinations of SNPs at regulatory sequences. Finally, the Transmutation tool allows for the design of negative controls by permitting scrambling, reversing, complementing or introducing multiple random mutations in the input sequences or motifs.', u'Sequencing at single-nucleotide resolution using nanopore devices is performed with reported error rates 10.5-20.7% (Ip et al., 2015). Since errors occur randomly during sequencing, repeating the sequencing procedure for the same DNA strands several times can generate sequencing results based on consensus derived from replicate readings, thus reducing overall error rates.\nThe method presented in this manuscript constructs copies of a nucleic acid molecule that are consecutively connected to the nucleic acid molecule. Such copies are useful because they can be sequenced by a nanopore device, enabling replicate reads, thus improving overall sequencing accuracy.', u'One of surprising recent discoveries in biology is that the gene and protein expression profiles in cells with identical genetic and environmental makeup can exhibit large variability. The nature and the significance of this variability had been posed as one of the current fundamental questions in biology. In this letter, we argue that the observed variability in cellular gene and protein expression can be understood as an outcome of homeostatic regulation mechanisms controlling the gene and protein expression profiles.', u"Searching for similar compounds in a database is the most important process for in-silico drug screening. Since a query compound is an important starting point for the new drug, a query holder, who is afraid of the query being monitored by the database server, usually downloads all the records in the database and uses them in a closed network. However, a serious dilemma arises when the database holder also wants to output no information except for the search results, and such a dilemma prevents the use of many important data resources. In order to overcome this dilemma, we developed a novel cryptographic protocol that enables database searching while keeping both the query holder's privacy and database holder's privacy. Generally, the application of cryptographic techniques to practical problems is difficult because versatile techniques are computationally expensive while computationally inexpensive techniques can perform only trivial computation tasks. In this study, our protocol is successfully built only from an additive-homomorphic cryptosystem, which allows only addition performed on encrypted values but is computationally efficient compared with versatile techniques such as general purpose multi-party computation. In an experiment searching ChEMBL, which consists of more than 1,200,000 compounds, the proposed method was 36,900 times faster in CPU time and 12,000 times as efficient in communication size compared with general purpose multi-party computation. The proposed method, easily scaling for large-scale databases, may help to accelerate drug discovery research by making full use of unused but valuable data that includes sensitive information.", u"In northern Guinea, we sighted two groups of Sousa teuszii (n=25; n=40 dolphins) off the Tristao Islands during exploratory small-boat surveys in 2011-12. Based on these and recent (2013) observations in the contiguous Rio Nunez estuary, we propose a single 'Guineas stock', combining the former 'Canal do Jeba-Bijagos' and South Guinea stocks. Significant mortality of S. teuszii from fisheries interactions is widely recognised however not quantifiable as monitoring effort is sporadic. In Guinea, catches were documented in 2002 (n=1) and in 2011-12 (n=5). Landed specimens were recorded in Cameroon (n=2) and Nigeria (n=2). All individuals were killed in small-scale coastal fisheries, presumably as accidental net entanglements, though directed takes cannot be excluded. All landed dolphins were butchered for human consumption (marine bushmeat). Nigerian fishers indicated also an alternative use as shark bait. If local markets in cetacean bushmeat and bait develop, as in Ghana, that will exacerbate pressures by encouraging directed takes. Catch records in Nigeria and sightings in Togo authenticate both nations as (long-suspected) range states for S. teuszii, a belated documenting of the primary, historical distribution. The Gulf of Guinea stock ('Cameroon dolphins') extends at least from Togo to southern Cameroon, and probably into Equatorial Guinea. However, rare sightings of small groups point to remnant, not thriving, dolphin communities. We anticipate de novo distribution gaps emerging and consolidating, following decades of fisheries interactions and creeping encroachment on once pristine coastal habitat. Developed coastlines in Ghana and Cote d'Ivoire devoid of records may already constitute such gaps. As the lack or scarcity of records warn about formidable challenges to the long-term survival of S. teuszii, innovative, workable protection measures are needed, soonest. We recommend the implementation of several new border-straddling marine protected areas (cf. Saloum Delta-Niumi National Park Complex) which could bring forth a major conservation effect. Binational involvement bears obvious advantages, from sharing responsibilities and allowing for larger protected areas. Suggested dolphin sanctuary examples could include MPAs straddling borders between Cameroon/Equatorial Guinea and Guinea-Bissau/Guinea-Conakry.", u'Single-cell RNA-Sequencing (scRNA-Seq) has become the most widely used high-throughput method for transcription profiling of individual cells. Systematic errors, including batch effects, have been widely reported as a major challenge in high-throughput technologies. Surprisingly, these issues have received minimal attention in published studies based on scRNA-Seq technology. We examined data from all fifteen published studies including at least 200 samples and found that systematic errors can explain a substantial percentage of observed cell-to-cell expression variability. Specifically, we found that the proportion of genes reported as expressed explains a substantial part of observed variability and that this quantity varies systematically across experimental batches. Furthermore, we found that experimental designs that confound outcomes of interest with batch effects are common. Finally, we propose a simple experimental design that can ameliorate the effect of theses systematic errors have on downstream results.', u'The open source environment R is one of the most widely used software for statistical computing. It provides a variety of applications including statistical genetics. Most of the powerful tools for quantitative genetic analyses are stand-alone free programs developed by researchers in academia. SOLAR is the standard software program to perform linkage and association mappings of the quantitative trait loci (QTLs) in pedigrees of arbitrary size and complexity. solarius allows the user to exploit the variance component methods implemented in SOLAR. It automates such routine operations as formatting pedigree and phenotype data. It also parses the model output and contains summary and plotting functions for exploration of the results. In addition, solarius enables parallel computing of the linkage and association analyses, that makes the calculation of genome-wide scans more efficient.\n\nsolarius is available on CRAN https://cran.r-project.org/package=solarius and on GitHub https://github.com/ugcd/solarius. See http://solar.txbiomedgenetics.org/ for more information about SOLAR.', u'Histone H2B monoubiquitylation (H2Bub1) is localized preferentially to transcribed regions of genes and spreads concomitantly with the progression of RNA polymerase II (Pol II). In mammalian cells, H2Bub1 levels are highly correlated with transcription elongation rates, consistent with the general belief that H2Bub1 facilitates the elongation process. Yet, a causative role of H2Bub1 in regulating elongation rates within live cells remains to be proven. Using our recently developed 4sUDRB-seq method, we examined the impact of H2Bub1 downregulation, through silencing of its cognate E3 ubiquitin ligase RNF20, on genomewide transcription elongation rates. Surprisingly, H2Bub1 downregulation had no measurable effect on global elongation rates. Instead, it led to upregulation of over 1,000 genes by altering their Pol II pause release times; notably, those genes are characterized by the presence of H2Bub1 in relatively close proximity to the paused Pol II. Conversely, another set of genes was downregulated upon partial H2Bub1 depletion, and in those genes H2Bub1 appeared to be required for efficient recruitment of Pol II to the promoter region. Overall, our data shed new light on the molecular mechanisms by which H2Bub1 regulates gene expression and imply that the role of H2Bub1 in transcription elongation should be reconsidered.', u'This is a review. Non-electrolytic compounds typically cross cell membranes\nby passive diffusion. The rate of permeation is dependent on the chemical\nproperties of the solute and the composition of the lipid bilayer membrane.\nPredicting the permeability coefficient of a solute is important in pharmaceutical chemistry and toxicology. Molecular simulation has proven to be a valuable tool for modeling permeation of solutes through a lipid bilayer. In particular, the solubility-diffusion model has allowed for the quantitative calculation of permeability coefficients. The underlying theory and computational methods used to calculate membrane permeability are reviewed. We also discuss applications of these methods to examine the permeability of solutes and the effect of membrane composition on permeability. The application of coarse grain and polarizable models is discussed.', u"Molecular biology increasingly relies on large screens where enormous numbers of specimens are systematically assayed in the search for a particular, rare outcome. These screens include the systematic testing of small molecules for potential drugs and testing the association between genetic variation and a phenotype of interest. While these screens are ``hypothesis-free,'' they can be wasteful; pooling the specimens and then testing the pools is more efficient. We articulate in precise mathematical ways the type of structures \nuseful in combinatorial pooling designs so as to eliminate waste, to provide light weight, flexible, and modular designs. We show that Reed-Solomon codes, and more generally linear codes, satisfy all of these mathematical properties. We further demonstrate the power of this technique with Reed-Solomon-based biological experiments. We provide general purpose tools for experimentalists to construct and carry out practical pooling designs with rigorous guarantees for large screens.", u'Here we present a method of genome wide inferred study (GWIS) that provides an approximation\nof genome wide association study (GWAS) summary statistics for a variable that is a function\nof phenotypes for which GWAS summary statistics, phenotypic means and covariances are\navailable. GWIS can be performed regardless of sample overlap between the GWAS of the phenotypes\non which the function depends. As GWIS provides association estimates and their standard\nerrors for each SNP, GWIS can form the basis for polygenic risk scoring, LD score regression,\nMendelian randomization studies, biological annotation and other analyses. Here, we replicate a\nbody mass index (BMI) GWAS using GWIS based on a height GWAS and a weight GWAS. We\nproceed to use a GWIS to further our understanding of the genetic architecture of schizophrenia\nand bipolar disorder.', u'The rapid development of DNA sequencing technologies creates new educational opportunities for hands-on training. We report our experience in integrating handheld DNA sequencers (Oxford Nanopore Technologies MinION) as part of an academic class. This manuscript describes lessons learned to facilitate successful integration and provides educational resources for the benefit of the community.', u'How exponentially growing cells maintain size homeostasis is an important fundamental problem. Recent single-cell studies in prokaryotes have uncovered the adder principle, where cells on average, add a fixed size (volume) from birth to division. Interestingly, this added volume differs considerably among genetically-identical newborn cells with similar sizes suggesting a stochastic component in the timing of cell-division. To mechanistically explain the adder principle, we consider a time-keeper protein that begins to get stochastically expressed after cell birth at a rate proportional to the volume. Cell-division time is formulated as the first-passage time for protein copy numbers to hit a fixed threshold. Consistent with data, the model predicts that while the mean cell-division time decreases with increasing size of newborns, the noise in timing increases with size at birth. Intriguingly, our results show that the distribution of the volume added between successive cell-division events is independent of the newborn cell size. This was dramatically seen in experimental studies, where histograms of the added volume corresponding to different newborn sizes collapsed on top of each other. The model provides further insights consistent with experimental observations: the distributions of the added volume and the cell-division time when scaled by their respective means become invariant of the growth rate. Finally, we discuss various modifications to the proposed model that lead to deviations from the adder principle. In summary, our simple yet elegant model explains key experimental findings and suggests a mechanism for regulating both the mean and fluctuations in cell-division timing for size control.', u'Natural language processing continues to gain importance in a thriving scientific community that communicates its latest results in such a frequency that following up on the most recent developments even in a specific field cannot be managed by human readers alone. Here we summarize and compare the publishing activity of the previous years on a distinct topic across several countries, addressing not only publishing frequency and history, but also stylistic characteristics that are accessible by means of natural language processing. Though there are no profound differences in the sentence lengths or lexical diversity among different countries, writing styles approached by Part-Of-Speech tagging are similar among countries that share history or official language or those are spatially close.', u'Seed banks are a common characteristics to many plant species, which allow storage of genetic diversity in the soil as dormant seeds for various periods of time. We investigate an above-ground population following a Fisher-Wright model with selection coupled with a deterministic seed bank assuming the length of the seed bank is kept constant and the number of seeds is large. To assess the combined impact of seed banks and selection on genetic diversity, we derive a general diffusion model. We compute the equilibrium solution of the site-frequency spectrum and derive the times to fixation of an allele with and without selection. Finally, it is demonstrated that seed banks enhance the effect of selection onto the site-frequency spectrum while slowing down the time until the mutation-selection equilibrium is reached.', u'Motivation\nViral infections represent one of the most serious challenges to public health; the high genomic variation expressed by the viral population within an individual patient can lead the drug therapy to failure. Next-generation sequencing enables to identify viral quasi-species and to quantify the minority variants present in clinical samples; therefore it can be of direct benefit in terms of devising optimal treatment strategies for individual patients.\nMethod\nWithin the ICONIC (InfeCtion respONse through vIrus genomiCs) project, we developed an automated, portable and customisable high-throughput analysis pipeline to generate de-novo viral whole genomes and quantify minority variants from residual diagnostic samples. Our pipeline analyses Illumina short paired reads and can assemble either single or multiple segments viral genomes.\nResults\nThe ICONIC pipeline was benchmarked on a dedicated High Performance Computing cluster using a pilot set of paired reads from 420 HIV clinical samples not filtered by viral load or amplification quality. The median genome length was 82% respect to the HIV-1 reference sequence (HXB2). The analysis lasted less than 10 hours, each sample took around 4 hours and required 5 GB of memory on average. The pipeline can be ported on a cluster or a single server through either an installation file or a Dockerfile.\nConclusions\nIt is technically possible for clinicians to obtain subtype information and a list of relevant Drug Resistance Mutations within three days of sample collection, therefore our pipeline can be used as a decision support tool towards more effective personalised treatments.\nAvailability\nThe pipeline and its documentation can be found on the GitHub repository https://github.com/ICONIC-UCL/pipeline.', u'While the CCA sequence at the mature 3\u2032 end of tRNAs is conserved and critical for translational function, a genetic template for this sequence is not always contained in tRNA genes. In eukaryotes and archaea, the CCA ends of tRNAs are synthesized post-transcriptionally by CCA-adding enzymes. In bacteria, tRNA genes template CCA\nsporadically. In order to understand variation in how prokaryotic tRNA genes template CCA, we re-annotated tRNA genes in the tRNAdb-CE database. Among 132,129 prokaryotic tRNA genes, initiator tRNA genes template CCA at the highest average frequency (74.1%) over all functional classes except selenocysteine and pyrrolysine tRNA genes (88.1% and 100% respectively). Across bacterial phyla and a wide range of genome sizes, many lineages exist in which predominantly initiator tRNA genes template CCA. Preferential retention of CCA in initiator tRNA genes evolved multiple times during reductive genome evolution in Bacteria. Also, in a majority of cyanobacterial and actinobacterial genera, predominantly initiator tRNA genes template CCA. We suggest that cotranscriptional synthesis of initiator tRNA CCA 3\u2032 ends can complement inefficient processing of initiator tRNA precursors, "bootstrap" rapid initiation of protein synthesis from a non-growing state, or contribute to an increase in cellular growth rates by reducing overheads of mass and energy to maintain nonfunctional tRNA precursors. More generally, CCA templating in structurally non-conforming tRNA genes can afford cells robustness and greater plasticity to respond rapidly to environmental changes and stimuli.', u'Despite their pivotal role in agriculture and biological research, polyploids, a group of organisms with more than two sets of chromosomes, are very difficult to study. Increasing studies have used high-density genetic linkage maps to investigate the genome structure and function of polyploids and to identify genes underlying polyploid traits. However, although models for linkage analysis have been well established for diploids, with some essential modifications for tetraploids, no models have been available thus far for polyploids at higher ploidy levels. The linkage analysis of polyploids typically requires knowledge about their meiotic mechanisms, depending on the origin of polyplody. Here we describe a computational modeling framework for linkage analysis in allohexaploids by integrating their preferential chromosomal-pairing meiotic feature into a mixture model setting. The framework, implemented with the EM algorithm, allows the simultaneous estimates of preferential pairing factors and the recombination fraction. We investigated statistical properties of the framework through extensive computer simulation and validated its usefulness and utility by analyzing a real data from a full-sib family of allohexaploid persimmon. Our attempt in linkage analysis of allohexaploids by incorporating their meiotic mechanism lays a foundation for allohexaploid genetic mapping and also provides a new horizon to explore allohexaploid parental kinship.', u'Following Hardy-Weinberg disequilibrium (HWD) occurring at a single locus and linkage disequilibrium (LD) between two loci in generations, we here proposed the third genetic disequilibrium in population: recombination disequilibrium (RD). RD is a measurement of crossover interference among multiple loci in a random mating population. In natural populations besides recombination interference, RD may also be due to selection, mutation, gene conversion, drift and/or migration.  Therefore, similarly to LD, RD will also reflect the history of natural selection and mutation. In breeding populations, RD purely results from recombination interference and hence can be used to build or evaluate and correct a linkage map.  Several practical examples from F2, testcross and human populations indeed demonstrate that RD is useful for measuring recombination interference between two short intervals and evaluating linkage maps. As with LD, RD will be important for studying genetic mapping, association of haplotypes with disease, plant breading and population history.', u'Large scale genomic sequencing is now widely used to decipher questions in diverse realms such as biological function, human diseases, evolution, ecosystems, and agriculture. With the quantity and diversity these data harbor, a robust and scalable data handling and analysis solution is desired. Here we present interactive analytics using public cloud infrastructure and distributed computing database Dremel and developed according to the standards of Global Alliance for Genomics and Health, to perform information compression, comprehensive quality controls, and biological information retrieval in large volumes of genomic data. We demonstrate that such computing paradigms can provide orders of magnitude faster turnaround for common analyses, transforming long-running batch jobs submitted via a Linux shell into questions that can be asked from a web browser in seconds.', u'SNPs (Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms) are genetic markers whose precise identification is a prerequisite for association studies. Methods to identify them are currently well developed for model species, but rely on the availability of a (good) reference genome, and therefore cannot be applied to non-model species. They are also mostly tailored for whole genome (re-)sequencing experiments, whereas in many cases, transcriptome sequencing can be used as a cheaper alternative which already enables to identify SNPs located in transcribed regions.  \nIn this paper, we propose a method that identifies, quantifies and annotates SNPs without any reference genome, using RNA-seq data only. Individuals can be pooled prior to sequencing, if not enough material is available for sequencing from one individual.\nUsing human RNA-seq data, we first compared the performance of our method with G<small>ATK</small>, a well established method that requires a reference genome. We showed that both methods predict SNPs with similar accuracy.\nWe then validated experimentally the predictions of our method using RNA-seq data from two non-model species. \nThe method can be used for any species to annotate SNPs and predict their impact on proteins. We further enable to test for the association of the identified SNPs with a phenotype of interest.', u'Codon models are widely used to identify the signature of selection at the molecular level and to test for changes in selective pressure during the evolution of genes encoding proteins. The large dimensionality of the Markov processes used to model codon evolution makes it difficult to use these models with large biological datasets. We propose here to use state aggregation to reduce the dimensionality of codon models and, thus, improve the computational performance of likelihood estimation on these models. We show that this heuristic speeds up the computations of the M0 and branch-site models up to 6.8 times. We also show through simulations that state aggregation does not introduce a detectable bias. We analysed a real dataset and show that aggregation provides highly correlated predictions compared to the full likelihood computations. Finally, state aggregation is a very general approach and can be applied to any continuous-time Markov process-based model with large dimensionality, such as amino acid and coevolution models. We therefore discuss different ways to apply state aggregation to Markov models used in phylogenetics.', u'Extensive hyperpolymorphism and sequence similarity between the HLA genes make HLA type inference from whole-genome sequencing data a challenging problem. We address these by representing sequences from over 10,000 known alleles in a reference graph structure, enabling accurate read mapping. HLA*PRG, our algorithm, outperforms existing methods by a wide margin and for the first time consistently achieves the accuracy of gold-standard reference methods with one error across 158 alleles tested.', u'I use the Nernst equation, parameterised with experimental data, to predict that cancer cells will accumulate more of a lipophilic anion than normal cells. This effect is correlated to charge number. Model cancer cells accumulate *100 more of an anion, *103 more di-anion, *106 more tri-anion, *108 more tetra-anion and *1010 more penta-anion (>>1 billion times more). The trend endures, conveying even greater specificity, for higher charge numbers. This effect could be leveraged for cancer therapy. Wherein the lipophilic anion is a toxin that targets some vital cellular process, which normal and cancer cells may even share. It delivers a high, lethal dose to cancer cells but a low, safe dose to normal cells. This mathematical finding conveys the prospect of a broad, powerful new front against cancer.', u'The malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum has a great capacity for evolutionary adaptation to evade host immunity and develop drug resistance. Current understanding of parasite evolution is impeded by the fact that a large fraction of the genome is either highly repetitive or highly variable, and thus difficult to analyse using short read technologies. Here we describe a resource of deep sequencing data on parents and progeny from genetic crosses, which has enabled us to perform the first genome-wide, integrated analysis of SNP, INDEL and complex polymorphisms, using Mendelian error rates as an indicator of genotypic accuracy. These data reveal that INDELs are exceptionally abundant, being more common than SNPs and thus the dominant mode of polymorphism within the core genome. We use the high density of SNP and INDEL markers to analyse patterns of meiotic recombination, confirming a high rate of crossover events, and providing the first estimates for the rate of non-crossover events and the length of conversion tracts. We observe several instances of recombination that modify copy number variants associated with drug resistance, demonstrating a mechanism whereby fitness costs associated with resistance mutations could be compensated and greater phenotypic plasticity could be acquired. We describe a novel web application that allows these data to be explored in detail.', u'We introduce Photon-HDF5, an open and efficient file format to simplify exchange and long term accessibility of data from single-molecule fluorescence experiments based on photon-counting detectors such as single-photon avalanche diode (SPAD), photomultiplier tube (PMT) or arrays of such detectors. The format is based on HDF5, a widely used platform- and language-independent hierarchical file format for which user-friendly viewers are available. Photon-HDF5 can store raw photon data (timestamp, channel number, etc) from any acquisition hardware, but also setup and sample description, information on provenance, authorship and other metadata, and is flexible enough to include any kind of custom data.\nThe format specifications are hosted on a public website, which is open to contributions by the biophysics community. As an initial resource, the website provides code examples to read Photon-HDF5 files in several programming languages and a reference python library (phconvert), to create new Photon-HDF5 files and convert several existing file formats into Photon-HDF5. To encourage adoption by the academic and commercial communities, all software is released under the MIT open source license.', u'The advent of biological data of increasingly higher resolution in space and time has triggered the use of dynamic models to explain and predict the evolution of biological systems over space and time. Computer-aided system modeling and analysis in biology has led to many new discoveries and explanations that would otherwise be intractable to articulate without the available data and computing power. Nevertheless, the complexity in biology still challenges many labs in capturing studied phenomena in models that are tractable and simple enough to analyze. Moreover, the popular use of ordinary differential equation models have their limitations in that they solely capture continuous dynamics, while we observe many discrete dynamic phenomena in biology such as gene switching or mutations. Hybrid systems modeling provides a framework in which both continuous and discrete dynamics can be simulated and analyzed. Moreover, it provides techniques to develop approximations and abstractions of complex dynamics that are tractable to analyze.', u'The oomycete pathogen Phytophthora infestans causes potato late blight, and as a potato and tomato specialist pathogen, is seemingly poorly adapted to infect plants outside the Solanaceae. Here, we report the unexpected finding that P. infestans can infect Arabidopsis thaliana when another oomycete pathogen, Albugo laibachii, has colonized the host plant. The behaviour and speed of P. infestans infection in Arabidopsis pre-infected with A. laibachii resemble P. infestans infection of susceptible potato plants. Transcriptional profiling of P. infestans genes during infection revealed a significant overlap in the sets of secreted-protein genes that are induced in P. infestans upon colonisation of potato and susceptible Arabidopsis, suggesting major similarities in P. infestans gene expression dynamics on the two plant species. Furthermore, we found haustoria of A. laibachii and P. infestans within in the same Arabidopsis cells. This Arabidopsis - A. laibachii - P. infestans tripartite interaction opens up various possibilities to dissect the molecular mechanisms of P. infestans infection and the processes occurring in co-infected Arabidopsis cells.', u'The certainty that a species is accurately identified is the cornerstone of appearance based classification; however the methods used in classical taxonomy have yet to fully catch up with the digital age. Recognising this, the CO1 algorithm presented on the StripeSpotter platform was used to identify different species and sexes of mosquito wings (Diptera: Culicidae) and honey bee and bumblebee wings (Hymenoptera: Apidae). Images of different species of mosquito and bee wings were uploaded onto the CO1 database and test wing images were analysed to determine if this resulted in the correct species being identified. Out of a database containing 925 mosquito and bee wing images, the CO1 algorithm correctly identified species and sexes of test wing image presented, with a high degree of accuracy (80% to 100% depending on the species and database used, excluding sibling species) highlighting the usefulness of CO1 in identifying medically important as well as beneficial insect species. Using a larger database of wing images resulted in significantly higher numbers of test images being correctly identified than using a smaller database. The hind wings of Hymenoptera provided higher levels of correctly identified results than using the fore wings. The software should be used in conjunction with other identifying criteria (salient morphological features) in addition to the wings. CO1 is a powerful algorithm to use in identifying insect wings in its current form and has great potential if it is adapted and tailored for insect species identification. It is suggested that a primary aim in the digital age should be the production of a World Wide Database of insect images, where all known insect images can be made available to everyone, with image recognition and species knowledge at its core.', u'We simultaneously recorded local field potentials in the primary motor cortex and sensorimotor striatum in awake, freely behaving, 6-OHDA lesioned hemi-parkinsonian rats in order to study the features directly related to pathological states such as parkinsonian state and levodopa-induced dyskinesia. We analysed the spectral characteristics of the obtained signals and observed that during dyskinesia the most prominent feature was a relative power increase in the high gamma frequency range at around 80 Hz, while for the parkinsonian state it was in the beta frequency range. Here we show that during both pathological states effective connectivity in terms of Granger causality is bidirectional with an accent on the striatal influence on the cortex. In the case of dyskinesia, we also found a high increase in effective connectivity at 80 Hz. In order to further understand the 80- Hz phenomenon, we performed cross-frequency analysis and observed characteristic patterns in the case of dyskinesia but not in the case of the parkinsonian state or the control state. We noted a large decrease in the modulation of the amplitude at 80 Hz by the phase of low frequency oscillations (up to ~10 Hz) across both structures in the case of dyskinesia. This may suggest a lack of coupling between the low frequency activity of the recorded network and the group of neurons active at ~80 Hz.', u'We conducted a search for protein truncating variants conferring protection against inflammatory bowel disease exploiting knowledge of common variants associated with the same disease. We found that a protein truncating variant (rs36095412, p.R179X, genotyped in 11,148 ulcerative colitis patients and 295,446 controls, MAF = up to 0.78%) in RNF186, a single-exon ring finger E3 ligase with strong colonic expression, protects against ulcerative colitis (overall P = 6.89\xd710-7, odds ratio (OR) = 0.30). We further demonstrate that the truncated protein is expressed, suggesting the protective mechanism may reside in the loss of an interaction or function via mislocalization or loss of an essential protein element.', u"Numerous studies have identified prognostic genes in individual cancers, but a thorough pan-cancer analysis has not been performed.  In addition, previous studies have mostly used microarray data instead of RNA-SEQ, and have not published comprehensive lists of associations with survival.  Using recently available RNA-SEQ and clinical data from the The Cancer Genome Atlas for 6,495 patients, we have investigated every annotated and expressed gene's association with survival across 16 cancer types.  The most statistically significant harmful and protective genes were not shared across cancers, but were enriched in distinct gene sets which were shared across certain groups of cancers.  These groups of cancers were independently reconstructed by unsupervised clustering of Cox coefficients (a measure of association with survival) for individual genes or for gene programs.  This analysis has revealed unappreciated commonalities among cancers which may provide insights into cancer pathogenesis and rationales for co-opting treatments between cancers. [Note: Dr. Anindya Dutta has been added as a corresponding author.]", u"Difficulties in mentalizing or theory of mind are common autism spectrum conditions (ASC). However, heterogeneity in mentalizing ability between individuals with ASC is considerable, particularly in adulthood. Parsing this heterogeneity to come to more precise understanding of which individuals have difficulty has important implications, particularly for individualized approaches in clinical and translational research applications. Here we utilize unsupervised hierarchical clustering to identify data-driven subgroups within ASC based on performance on an advanced mentalizing test, the 'Reading the Mind in the Eyes' Test (RMET). We find evidence for 2 discrete ASC subgroups that can be replicably identified across two large independent datasets. The first subgroup shows clear difficulty on the RMET, with an effect size difference compared to typically-developing controls (TD) of greater than 3 standard deviations. In contrast, the second subgroup shows little to no difficulty on the RMET compared to TD individuals. These ASC subgroups are not systematically different across a range of other variables including sex/gender, age, depression or anxiety symptoms, autistic traits, trait empathy, and autism symptom severity. Verbal IQ is slightly lower in the impaired ASC subgroup, but covarying for this does not change the effect of large difficulties in mentalizing in this subgroup. These insights enable a more precise understanding of mentalizing and may have important implications for future work that takes a more individualized approach to clinical assessment and treatment. Identification of these subgroups may also facilitate work examining multiple biological mechanisms underlying ASC in translational research.", u'In the adult mammalian cortex, a small fraction of spines are created and eliminated every day, and the resultant synaptic connection structure is highly nonrandom, even in local circuits. However, it remains unknown whether a particular synaptic connection structure is functionally advantageous in local circuits, and why creation and elimination of synaptic connections is necessary in addition to rich synaptic weight plasticity. To answer these questions, we studied an inference task model through theoretical and numerical analyses. We demonstrate that a robustly beneficial network structure naturally emerges by combining Hebbian-type synaptic weight plasticity and wiring plasticity. Especially in a sparsely connected network, wiring plasticity achieves reliable computation by enabling efficient information transmission. Furthermore, the proposed rule reproduces experimental observed correlation between spine dynamics and task performance.', u'Computational modeling of tumor growth has become an invaluable tool to simulate complex cell-cell interactions and emerging population-level dynamics. Agent-based models are commonly used to describe the behavior and interaction of individual cells in different environments. Behavioral rules can be informed and calibrated by in vitro assays, and emerging population-level dynamics may be validated with both in vitro and in vivo experiments. Here, we describe the design and implementation of a lattice-based agent-based model of cancer stem cell driven tumor growth.', u'Recombination is a process that unlinks neighbouring loci allowing for independent evolutionary trajectories within genomes of many organisms. If not properly accounted for, recombination can compromise many evolutionary analyses. In addition, when dealing with organisms that are not obligately sexually reproducing, recombination gives insight into the rate at which distinct genetic lineages come into contact.\nSince June, 2012, Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) has caused 1106 laboratory-confirmed infections, with 421 MERS-CoV associated deaths as of April 16, 2015. Although bats are considered as the likely ultimate source of zoonotic betacoronaviruses, dromedary camels have been consistently implicated as the source of current human infections in the Middle East.\nIn this paper we use phylogenetic methods and simulations to show that MERS-CoV genome has likely undergone numerous recombinations recently. Recombination in MERS-CoV implies frequent co-infection with distinct lineages of MERS-CoV, probably in camels given the current understanding of MERS-CoV epidemiology.', u'Little is known about the mechanisms that enable organisms to cope with unpredictable environments. To address this issue, we used replicate populations of Escherichia coli selected under complex, randomly changing environments. Under four novel stresses that had no known correlation with the selection environments, individual cells of the selected populations had significantly lower lag and greater yield compared to the controls. More importantly, there were no outliers in terms of growth, thus ruling out the evolution of population-based resistance. We also assayed the standing phenotypic variation of the selected populations, in terms of their growth on 94 different substrates. Contrary to expectations, there was no increase in the standing variation of the selected populations, nor was there any significant divergence from the ancestors. This suggested that the greater fitness in novel environments is brought about by selection at the level of the individuals, which restricts the suite of traits that can potentially evolve through this mechanism. Given that day-to-day climatic variability of the world is rising, these results have potential public health implications. Our results also underline the need for a very different kind of theoretical approach to study the effects of fluctuating environments.', u"We investigate the application of mesoscopic response functions (MRFs) to characterize a large set of networks of fungi and slime moulds grown under a wide variety of different experimental treatments, including inter-species competition and attack by fungivores. We construct 'structural networks' by estimating cord conductances (which yield edge weights) from the experimental data, and we construct 'functional networks' by calculating edge weights based on how much nutrient traffic is predicted to occur along each edge.  Both types of networks have the same topology, and we compute MRFs for both families of networks to illustrate two different ways of constructing taxonomies to group the networks into clusters of related fungi and slime moulds.  Although both network taxonomies generate intuitively sensible groupings of networks across species, treatments, and laboratories, we find that clustering using the functional-network measure appears to give groups with lower intra-group variation in species or treatments. We argue that MRFs provide a useful quantitative measures of network behaviour that can (1) help summarize an expanding set of increasingly complex experimental biological networks and (2) help extract information that captures subtle changes in intra-specific and inter-specific phenotypic traits that are integral to a mechanistic understanding of fungal behaviour and ecology. As an accompaniment to our paper, we also make a large data set of fungal networks available in the public domain.", u'The hydride shift mechanism of D-Xylose Isomerase converts D-glucose to D-fructose. In this work,\n we compute features of a \u201chydroxide once\u201d mechanism for the hydride shift with quantum chemical calculations  based on the 3KCO (linear) and 3KCL (cyclic) X-ray/neutron structures.  \n The rigid boundary conditions of the active site \u201cshoe-box\u201d,  together with ionization states and proton orientations, enables large scale electronic \nstructure calculations of the entire active site with greatly reduced configuration sampling.  In the reported hydroxide once mechanism, magnesium in the 2A ligation shifts to position 2B, ionizing the O2 proton of D-glucose,  which is accepted by ASP-287. In this step a novel stabilization is discovered; the K183/D255 proton toggle, providing a \u223c10 kcal/mol stabilization through inductive  polarization over 5\xc5.  Then, hydride shifts from glucose-O2 to glucose-O1 (the interconversion) generating hydroxide (once) from the catalytic water.  This step is consistent with the observation of hyroxide in structure 3CWH, which we identify as a branch point. From this branch point, we find several routes to the solvent-free regeneration of catalytic water that is strongly exothermic (by \u223c20 kcal/mol), yielding one additional hydrogen bond  more than the starting structure. This non-Michaelis behavior, strongly below the starting cyclic and linear total  energy,  explains the observed accumulation of hydroxide intermediate -- we postulate that forming permissive ionization states, required for cyclization, may be the rate limiting step. In all, we find eight items of experimental correspondence supporting features of the putative hydroxide once mechanism.', u'The Genome in a Bottle Consortium, hosted by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) is creating reference materials and data for human genome sequencing, as well as methods for genome comparison and benchmarking.  Here, we describe a large, diverse set of sequencing data for seven human genomes; five are current or candidate NIST Reference Materials.  The pilot genome, NA12878, has been released as NIST RM 8398.  We also describe data from two Personal Genome Project trios, one of Ashkenazim Jewish ancestry and one of Chinese ancestry.  The data come from 12 technologies: BioNano Genomics, Complete Genomics paired-end and LFR, Ion Proton exome, Oxford Nanopore, Pacific Biosciences, SOLiD, 10X Genomics GemCodeTM WGS, and Illumina exome and WGS paired-end, mate-pair, and synthetic long reads.  Cell lines, DNA, and data from these individuals are publicly available.  Therefore, we expect these data to be useful for revealing novel information about the human genome and improving sequencing technologies, SNP, indel, and structural variant calling, and de novo assembly.', u"MiRNAs are post-transcriptional repressors of gene expression that may additionally reduce the cell-to-cell variability in protein expression, induce correlations between target expression levels and provide a layer through which targets can influence each other's expression as 'competing RNAs' (ceRNAs). Here we combined single cell sequencing of human embryonic kidney cells in which the expression of two distinct miRNAs was induced over a wide range, with mathematical modeling, to estimate Michaelis-Menten (KM)-type constants for hundreds of evolutionarily conserved miRNA targets. These parameters, which we inferred here for the first time in the context of the entire network of endogenous miRNA targets, vary over ~2 orders of magnitude. They reveal an in vivo hierarchy of miRNA targets, defined by the concentration of miRNA-Argonaute complexes at which the targets are most sensitively down-regulated. The data further reveals miRNA-induced correlations in target expression at the single cell level, as well as the response of target noise to the miRNA concentration. The approach is generalizable to other miRNAs and post-transcriptional regulators and provides a deeper understanding of gene expression dynamics.", u'Eukaryotic genes generate multiple mRNA transcript isoforms though alternative transcription, splicing, and polyadenylation. However, the relationship between human transcript diversity and protein production is complex as each isoform can be translated differently. We fractionated a polysome profile and reconstructed transcript isoforms from each fraction, which we term Transcript Isoforms in Polysomes sequencing (TrIP-seq). Analysis of these data revealed regulatory features that control ribosome occupancy and translational output of each transcript isoform. We extracted a panel of 5\u2032 and 3\u2032 untranslated regions that control protein production from an unrelated gene in cells over a 100-fold range. Select 5\u2032 untranslated regions exert robust translational control between cell lines, while 3\u2032 untranslated regions can confer cell-type-specific expression. These results expose the large dynamic range of transcript-isoform-specific translational control, identify isoform-specific sequences that control protein output in human cells, and demonstrate that transcript isoform diversity must be considered when relating RNA and protein levels.', u"Working memory is a cognitive construct that describes how information can be maintained in brain for a limited period of time, while concurrent processing is also performed. We present a simple model that accounts for working memory span and explains the origin of the cognitive Miller's rule (Magical Number Seven).", u'Understanding Cloud security for genomics data is challenging but a critical need. It is our observation that security requirements are often inconsistent not only across datasets but also between on-premise solutions and Cloud for the same dataset. We attempt to summarize these security requirements across a wide range of regulatory bodies from government and private sources. While we expect the implementation to be different between Clouds and evolution in implementation methodology in time, we expect these guidelines to be applicable in foreseeable future. We also note that security does not necessary provide privacy and significant effort is needed to address privacy for a research centric platform.', u'The thalamus is a key brain element in the processing of sensory information. During the sleep and awake states, this brain area\nis characterized by the presence of two distinct dynamical regimes: in the sleep state activity is dominated by spindle oscillations (7-15 Hz) weakly affected by external stimuli, while in the awake state the activity is primarily driven by external stimuli. Here we develop a simple and computationally efficient model of the thalamus that exhibits two dynamical regimes with different information-processing capabilities, and study the transition between them. The network model includes glutamatergic thalamocortical (TC) relay neurons and gabaergic reticular (RE) neurons described by adaptative integrate-and-fire \nmodels in which spikes are induced by either depolarization or hyperpolarization rebound.\nWe found a range of connectivity conditions under which the thalamic network composed by these neurons displays the two aforementioned dynamical regimes. Our results show that TC-RE loops generate spindle-like oscillations and that a critical value of clustering in the RE-RE \nconnections is necessary for the coexistence of the two regimes. We also observe that the transition between the two regimes occurs when the external excitatory input on TC neurons (mimicking sensory stimulation) is large enough to cause a significant fraction of them to switch from hyperpolarization-rebound-driven firing to \ndepolarization-driven firing. Overall, our model gives a novel and clear description of the role that the two types of neurons and their connectivity play in the dynamical regimes observed in the thalamus, and in the transition between them. These results pave the way for the development of efficient models of the transmission of sensory information from \nperiphery to cortex.', u'Genomic tools allow the study of the whole genome and are facilitating the study of genotype-environment combinations and their relationship with the phenotype. However, most genomic prediction models developed so far are appropriate for Gaussian phenotypes. For this reason, appropriate genomic prediction models are needed for count data, since the conventional regression models used on count data with a large sample size (n) and a small number of parameters (p) cannot be used for genomic-enabled prediction where the number of parameters (p) is larger than the sample size (n). Here we propose a Bayesian mixed negative binomial (BMNB) genomic regression model for counts that takes into account genotype by environment (G \xd7 E) interaction. We also provide all the full conditional distributions to implement a Gibbs sampler. We evaluated the proposed model using a simulated data set and a real wheat data set from the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT) and collaborators. Results indicate that our BMNB model is a viable alternative for analyzing count data.', u'Electrotaxis plays a critical role in developmental cell migration, axon growth cone guidance, epithelial wound healing, tissue regeneration, and the degree of invasiveness characterizing different cancer cell lines. During electrotaxis in a direct current electric field (EF), a cell migrates preferentially either towards the anode or cathode depending on the cell-type. However, the types and ranges of mechanisms coupling trans-cellular electric fields to cellular EF-sensitive signaling systems are largely unknown.  To address this cell biological phenomenon, I use transcriptomic data from a developmental genetic model in which multicellular social aggregation is induced by starvation of amoeboid cells. I find that the developmental proteome expressed during the streaming aggregation stage is measurably and substantially enriched in charged and highly polar amino acids relative to the proteomes of either the unicellular amoeboid or the multicellular fruiting body. This large-scale coding augmentation of EF-sensitive amino acid residues in thousands of streaming-specific proteins is accompanied by a proportional coding decrease in the number of small, uncharged amino acid residues. I also confirm an expected coding increase of biosynthetically costly amino acids in the proteome of the satiated feeding-stage amoeboid. These findings suggest that electrotactic capability is encoded broadly in the genetically regulated deployment of a developmental proteome with augmented EF-sensitivity. These results signify that extreme, nonuniform, evolutionary constraints can be exerted on the amino acid composition of an organism\u2019s proteome.', u'The recent availability of large-scale sequence data for the human Y chromosome has revolutionized analyses of and insights gained from this non-recombining, paternally inherited chromosome. However, the studies to date focus on Eurasian variation, and hence the diversity of early-diverging branches found in Africa has not been adequately documented. Here we analyze over 900 kb of Y chromosome sequence obtained from 547 individuals from southern African Khoisan and Bantu-speaking populations, identifying 232 new sequences from basal haplogroups A and B. We find new branches within haplogroups A2 and A3b1 and suggest that the prehistory of haplogroup B2a is more complex than previously suspected; this haplogroup is likely to have existed in Khoisan groups before the arrival of Bantu-speakers, who brought additional B2a lineages to southern Africa. Furthermore, we estimate older dates than obtained previously for both the A2-T node within the human Y chromosome phylogeny and for some individual haplogroups. Finally, there is pronounced variation in branch length between major haplogroups; haplogroups associated with Bantu-speakers have significantly longer branches. This likely reflects a combination of biases in the SNP calling process and demographic factors, such as an older average paternal age (hence a higher mutation rate), a higher effective population size, and/or a stronger effect of population expansion for Bantu-speakers than for Khoisan groups.', u'Speciation often involves the splitting of a lineage and the adaptation of daughter lineages to different environments. It may also\ninvolve the merging of divergent lineages, thus creating a stable homoploid hybrid species1 that constructs a new ecological\nniche by transgressing 2 the ecology of the parental types. Hybrid speciation may also contribute to enigmatic and cryptic\nbiodiversity in the sea.3,4 The enigmatic walleye pollock, which is not a pollock at all but an Atlantic cod that invaded the\nPacific 3.8 Mya,5 differs considerably from its presumed closest relatives, the Pacific and Atlantic cod. Among the Atlantic\ncod, shallow-water coastal and deep-water migratory frontal ecotypes are associated with highly divergent genomic islands;6,7\nhowever, intermediates remain an enigma.8 Here, we performed whole-genome sequencing of over 200 individuals using\nup to 33 million SNPs based on genotype likelihoods9 and showed that the evolutionary status of walleye pollock is a hybrid\nspecies: it is a hybrid between Arctic cod and Atlantic cod that transgresses the ecology of its parents. For the first time, we\nprovide decisive evidence that the Atlantic cod coastal and frontal ecotypes are separate species that hybridized, leading to a\ntrue-breeding hybrid species that differs ecologically from its parents. We refute monophyly and dichotomous branching of\nthese taxa, and stress the importance of looking beyond branching trees at admixture and hybridity. Our study demonstrates\nthe power of whole-genome sequencing and population genomics in providing deep insights into fundamental processes of\nspeciation. Our study was a starting point for further work aimed at examining the criteria of hybrid speciation,10 selection,\nsterility and structural chromosomal variation11 among cod-fish, which are among the most important fish stocks in the world.\nThe hybrid nature of both the walleye pollock and Atlantic cod raises the question concerning the extent to which very profitable\nfisheries12,13 depend on hybrid vigour. Our results have implications for management of marine resources in times of rapid\nclimate change.14,15', u'Modeling the properties and functions of DNA sequences is an important, but challenging task in the broad field of genomics. This task is particularly difficult for noncoding DNA, the vast majority of which is still poorly understood in terms of function. A powerful predictive model for the function of noncoding DNA can have enormous benefit for both basic science and translational research because over 98% of the human genome is noncoding and 93% of disease-associated variants lie in these regions. To address this need, we propose DanQ, a novel hybrid convolutional and bi-directional long short-term memory recurrent neural network framework for predicting noncoding function de novo from sequence. In the DanQ model, the convolution layer captures regulatory motifs, while the recurrent layer captures long-term dependencies between the motifs in order to learn a regulatory "grammar" to improve predictions. DanQ improves considerably upon other models across several metrics. For some regulatory markers, DanQ can achieve over a 50% relative improvement in the area under the precision-recall curve metric compared to related models.', u'Background\nHeterozygous mutations in CNTNAP2 have been identified in patients with a range of complex phenotypes including intellectual disability, autism and schizophrenia. However heterozygous CNTNAP2 mutations are also common in the normal population. Conversely, homozygous mutations are rare and have not been found in unaffected individuals. \n\nCase presentation\nWe describe a consanguineous family carrying a deletion in CNTNAP2 predicted to abolish function of its protein product, CASPR2. Affected family members show epilepsy, facial dysmorphisms, severe intellectual disability and impaired language. We compared these patients with previously reported individuals carrying homozygous mutations in CNTNAP2 and identified a highly recognisable phenotype. \n\nConclusions\nWe propose that CASPR2 loss produces a syndrome involving early-onset refractory epilepsy, intellectual disability, language impairment and autistic features that can be recognized as CASPR2 deficiency disorder. Further screening for homozygous patients meeting these criteria, together with detailed phenotypic investigations will be crucial for understanding the contribution of CNTNAP2 to normal and disrupted development.', u'The vertebrate adaptive immune system provides a flexible and diverse set of molecules to neutralize pathogens. Yet, viruses that cause chronic infections, such as HIV, can survive by evolving as quickly as the adaptive immune system, forming an evolutionary arms race within a host.  Here we introduce a mathematical framework to study the co-evolutionary dynamics of antibodies with antigens within a patient.  We focus on changes in the binding interactions between the antibody and antigen populations, which result from the underlying stochastic evolution of genotype frequencies driven by mutation, selection, and drift.  We identify the critical viral and immune parameters that determine the distribution of antibody-antigen binding affinities.  We also identify definitive signatures of co-evolution that measure the reciprocal response between the antibody and viruses, and we introduce experimentally measurable quantities that quantify the extent of adaptation during continual co-evolution of the two opposing populations.  Finally, we analyze competition between clonal lineages of antibodies and characterize the fate of a given lineage dependent on the state of the antibody and viral populations. In particular, we derive the conditions that favor the emergence of broadly neutralizing antibodies, which may be used in designing a vaccine against HIV.', u"Transposable elements (TEs) are a major source of genome variation across the branches of life. Although TEs may occasionally play an adaptive role in their host's genome, they are much more often deleterious, and purifying selection is thus an important factor controlling genomic TE loads. In contrast, life history and genomic characteristics such as mating system, parasitism, GC content, and RNAi pathways, have been suggested to account for the startling disparity of TE loads in different species. Previous studies of fungal, plant, and animal genomes have reported conflicting results regarding the direction in which these genomic features drive TE evolution. Many of these studies have had limited power because they studied taxonomically narrow systems, comparing only a limited number of phylogenetically independent contrasts, and did not address long term effects on TE evolution. Here we explicitly test the long term determinants of TE evolution by comparing 42 nematode genomes that span over 500 million years of diversification, and include numerous transitions between life history states and RNAi pathways. We have analysed the reconstructed TE loads of ancestors through the Nematoda phylogeny to account for correlation with GC content and transitions in TE evolutionary models. We also analysed the effect of transitions in life history characteristics and RNAi using ANOVA of phylogenetically independent contrasts. We show that purifying selection against TEs is the dominant force throughout the evolutionary history of Nematoda, as indicated by reconstructed ancestral TE loads, and that strong stochastic Ornstein-Uhlenbeck processes are the underlying models which best explain TE diversification among extant species. In contrast we found no evidence that life history or RNAi variations have a significant influence upon genomic TE load across extended periods of evolutionary history. We suggest that these are largely inconsequential to the large differences in TE content observed between genomes and only by these large-scale comparisons can we distinguish long term and persistent effects from transient effects or misleading random changes.", u'Palindromic consensus nucleotide sequences are found at the genomic integration sites of retroviruses and other transposable elements. It has been suggested that the palindromic consensus arises as a consequence of structural symmetry in the integrase complex, but the precise mechanism has yet to be elucidated. Here we perform a statistical analysis of large datasets of HTLV-1 and HIV-1 integration sites. The results show that the palindromic consensus sequence is not present in individual integration sites, but appears to arise in the population average as a consequence of the existence of a non-palindromic nucleotide motif that occurs in approximately equal proportions on the plus-strand and the minus-strand of the host genome. We demonstrate that palindromic probability position matrices are characteristic of such situations. We develop a generally applicable algorithm to sort the individual integration site sequences into plus-strand and minus-strand subpopulations.  We apply this algorithm to identify the respective integration site nucleotide motifs of five retroviruses of different genera: HTLV-1, HIV-1, MLV, ASLV, and PFV}.  The results reveal a non-palindromic motif that is shared between these retroviruses.', u'Plants of the Cannabis genus are the only producers of phytocannabinoids, terpenoid compounds that strongly interact with evolutionarily ancient endocannabinoid receptors shared by most bilaterian taxa. For millennia, the plant has been cultivated for these compounds, but also for food, rope, paper, and clothing. Today, specialized varieties yielding high-quality textile fibers, nutritional seed oil or high cannabinoid content are cultivated across the globe. However, the genetic identities and histories of these diverse populations remain largely obscured. We analyzed the nuclear genomic diversity among 340 Cannabis varieties, including fiber and seed oil hemp, high cannabinoid drug-types and feral populations. These analyses demonstrate the existence of at least three major groups of diversity, with European hemp varieties more closely related to narrow leaflet drug-types (NLDT) than to broad leaflet drug-types (BLDT). The BLDT group appears to encompass less diversity than the NLDT, which reflects the larger geographic range of NLDTs, and suggests a more recent origin of domestication of the BLDTs. As well as being genetically distinct, hemp, NLDT and BLDT genetic groups each produce unique cannabinoid and terpenoid content profiles. This combined analysis of population genomic and trait variation informs our understanding of the potential uses of different genetic variants for medicine and agriculture, providing valuable insights and tools for a rapidly emerging, valuable legal industry', u'Massively parallel sequencing has revolutionized many areas of biology but sequencing large amounts of DNA in many individuals is cost-prohibitive and unnecessary for many studies. Genomic complexity reduction techniques such as sequence capture and restriction enzyme-based methods enable the analysis of many more individuals per unit cost. Despite their utility, current complexity reduction methods have limitations, especially when large numbers of individuals are analyzed. Here we develop a much improved restriction site associated DNA (RAD) sequencing protocol and a new method called Rapture (RAD capture). The new RAD protocol improves versatility by separating RAD tag isolation and sequencing library preparation into two distinct steps. This protocol also recovers more unique (non-clonal) RAD fragments which improves both standard RAD and Rapture analysis. Rapture then uses an in-solution capture of chosen RAD tags to target sequencing reads to desired loci. Rapture combines the benefits of both RAD and sequence capture, i.e. very inexpensive and rapid library preparation for many individuals as well as high specificity in the number and location of genomic loci analyzed. Our results demonstrate that Rapture is a rapid and flexible technology capable of analyzing a very large number of individuals with minimal sequencing and library preparation cost. The methods presented here should improve the efficiency of genetic analysis for many aspects of agricultural, environmental, and biomedical science.', u"Phylogeny-based and functional trait-based analyses are two principle ways to study community assembly and underlying ecological processes. In principle, knowing all information about species traits would make phylogenetic information redundant, at least that component of phylogenetic signal in the distribution of species among communities that is caused by phylogenetically related species sharing similar traits. In reality, phylogenies may contain more information than a set of singular, discretely measured traits because we cannot measure all species traits and may misjudge which are most important. The extent to which functional trait information makes phylogenetic information redundant, however, has not been explicitly studied with empirical data in community ecology. Here, we use phylogenetic linear mixed models to analyze community assembly of 55 understory plant species in 30 forest sites in central Wisconsin. These communities show strong phylogenetic attraction, yet variation among sites in 20 environmental variables could not account for this pattern. Most of the 15 functional traits we measured had strong phylogenetic signal, but only three varied strongly among sites in ways that affected species' abundances. These three traits explained only 19% of variation in phylogenetic patterns of species co-occurrence. Thus, phylogenies appear to provide considerably more information about community assembly than the functional traits measured in this study, demonstrating the value of phylogeny in studying of community assembly processes even with abundant functional traits.", u'Seedling establishment and seed nutritional quality require the sequestration of sufficient mineral nutrients. Identification of genes and alleles that modify element content in the grains of cereals, including Sorghum bicolor, is fundamental to developing breeding and selection methods aimed at increasing bioavailable mineral content and improving crop growth. We have developed a high throughput workflow for the simultaneous measurement of multiple elements in Sorghum seeds. We measured seed element levels in the genotyped Sorghum Association Panel (SAP), representing all major cultivated sorghum races from diverse geographic and climatic regions, and mapped alleles contributing to seed element variation across three environments by genome-wide association. We observed significant phenotypic and genetic correlation between several elements across multiple years and diverse environments. The power of combining high-precision measurements with genome wide association was demonstrated by implementing rank transformation and a multilocus mixed model (MLMM) to map alleles controlling 20 element traits, identifying 255 loci affecting the sorghum seed ionome. Sequence similarity to genes characterized in previous studies identified likely causative genes for the accumulation of zinc (Zn) manganese (Mn), nickel (Ni), calcium (Ca) and cadmium (Cd) in sorghum seed. In addition to strong candidates for these four elements, we provide a list of candidate loci for several other elements. Our approach enabled identification of SNPs in strong LD with causative polymorphisms that can be used directly in plant breeding and improvement.', u'Background:  The human genome contains variants ranging in size from small single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) to large structural variants (SVs).  High-quality benchmark small variant calls for the pilot National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Reference Material (NA12878) have been developed by the Genome in a Bottle Consortium, but no similar high-quality benchmark SV calls exist for this genome.  Since SV callers output highly discordant results, we developed methods to combine multiple forms of evidence from multiple sequencing technologies to classify candidate SVs into likely true or false positives.  Our method (svclassify) calculates annotations from one or more aligned bam files from many high-throughput sequencing technologies, and then builds a one-class model using these annotations to classify candidate SVs as likely true or false positives.\nResults:  We first used pedigree analysis to develop a set of high-confidence breakpoint-resolved large deletions.  We then used svclassify to cluster and classify these deletions as well as a set of high-confidence deletions from the 1000 Genomes Project and a set of breakpoint-resolved complex insertions from Spiral Genetics.  We find that likely SVs cluster separately from likely non-SVs based on our annotations, and that the SVs cluster into different types of deletions.  We then developed a supervised one-class classification method that uses a training set of random non-SV regions to determine whether candidate SVs have abnormal annotations different from most of the genome.  To test this classification method, we use our pedigree-based breakpoint-resolved SVs, SVs validated by the 1000 Genomes Project, and assembly-based breakpoint-resolved insertions, along with semi-automated visualization using svviz.\nConclusions:  We find that candidate SVs with high scores from multiple technologies have high concordance with PCR validation and an orthogonal consensus method MetaSV (99.7% concordant), and candidate SVs with low scores are questionable.  We distribute a set of 2676 high-confidence deletions and 68 high-confidence insertions with high svclassify scores from these call sets for benchmarking SV callers.  We expect these methods to be particularly useful for establishing high-confidence SV calls for benchmark samples that have been characterized by multiple technologies.', u'The plant hormone auxin is perceived by a family of F-box proteins called the TIR1/AFBs. Phylogenetic studies reveal that these proteins fall into four clades in flowering plants called TIR1, AFB2, AFB4, and AFB6 (Parry et al. 2009). Genetic studies indicate that members of the TIR1 and AFB2 groups act as positive regulators of auxin signaling by promoting the degradation of the Aux/IAA transcriptional repressors (Dharmasiri et al. 2005; Parry et al. 2009). In this report we demonstrate that both AFB4 and AFB5 also function as auxin receptors based on in vitro assays. We also provide genetic evidence that both AFB4 and AFB5 are targets of the picloram family of auxinic herbicides. In contrast to previous studies we find that null afb4 alleles do not exhibit obvious defects in seedling morphology or auxin hypersensitivity. We conclude that AFB4 and AFB5 act in a similar fashion to other members of the family but exhibit a distinct auxin specificity.', u"Rett syndrome (RTT) has a complex developmental course over childhood and adolescence. Patients with RTT often have a pre-symptomatic period with no or little outward signs of the disorder, followed by developmental arrest and regression. Following regression, the individual's condition is not static, as they often progress into defined stages with unique neurological symptoms. Similarly, the progression of RTT-like symptoms in female mice heterozygous for a null-mutation has a prodromal and symptomatic period. Change in functional local circuit connectivity was studied using hippocampal slices, assaying Schaffer evoked activity in area CA1 using fast voltage sensitive dye imaging. With this technique the local functional interactions between the excitatory and inhibitory components of the circuit can be characterized. The prodromal period was associated with a shift in extent of excitation into the stratum oriens of the hippocampus and reduced sensitivity to changes in divalent cation concentration. These data suggest that hyperexcitability of the hippocampus at the circuit level may contribute to the prodromal reduction in cognitive performance and the onset of developmental regression.", u'Octopamine is known to have an appetitive role in odor conditioning paradigms in Drosophila melanogaster. We sought to test whether octopamine could also act as an appetitive stimulus in courtship conditioning, a paradigm in which training with an unreceptive female (such as a decapitated virgin) causes a subsequent decrease in courtship behavior in male Drosophila. To control octopamine release, we used the Tdc2-Gal4 and UAS-dTRPa1 genes in conjunction to depolarize octopaminergic neurons at 27 C in experimental flies. We hypothesized that inducing octopamine release during courtship training would decrease the aversive impact of training and cause less subsequent suppression of courtship behavior. Our findings confirmed this hypothesis: Tdc2-Gal4/UAS-dTRPa1 flies trained at 27 degrees showed significantly more courtship behavior than controls during testing, and in fact showed no significant effect of courtship training. This confirms that octopamine release counteracts the aversive stimulus of failure to copulate, indicating that octopamine may have an appetitive role in courtship.', u'Recent work has leveraged the extensive genotyping of the Icelandic population to perform long-range phasing (LRP), enabling accurate imputation and association analysis of rare variants in target samples typed on genotyping arrays. Here, we develop a fast and accurate LRP method, Eagle, that extends this paradigm to populations with much smaller proportions of genotyped samples by harnessing long (>4cM) identical-by-descent (IBD) tracts shared among distantly related individuals. We applied Eagle to N=150K samples (0.2% of the British population) from the UK Biobank, and we determined that it is 1-2 orders of magnitude faster than existing methods while achieving similar or better phasing accuracy (switch error rate \u22480.3%, corresponding to perfect phase in most 10Mb segments). We also observed that when used within an imputation pipeline, Eagle pre-phasing improved downstream imputation accuracy compared to pre-phasing in batches using existing methods (as necessary to achieve comparable computational cost).', u'The constantly decreasing cost and increasing output of current sequencing technologies enable large scale metagenomic studies of microbial communities from diverse habitats. Therefore, fast and accurate methods for taxonomic classification are needed, which can operate on increasingly larger datasets and reference databases. Recently, several fast metagenomic classifiers have been developed, which are based on comparison of genomic k-mers. However, nucleotide comparison using a fixed k-mer length often lacks the sensitivity to overcome the evolutionary distance between sampled species and genomes in the reference database. Here, we present the novel metagenome classifier Kaiju for fast assignment of reads to taxa. Kaiju finds maximum exact matches on the protein-level using the Borrows-Wheeler transform, and can optionally allow amino acid substitutions in the search using a greedy heuristic. We show in a genome exclusion study that Kaiju can classify more reads with higher sensitivity and similar precision compared to fast k-mer based classifiers, especially in genera that are underrepresented in reference databases. We also demonstrate that Kaiju classifies more than twice as many reads in ten real metagenomes compared to programs based on genomic k-mers. Kaiju can process up to millions of reads per minute, and its memory footprint is below 6 GB of RAM, allowing the analysis on a standard PC. The program is available under the GPL3 license at:\nhttp://bioinformatics-centre.github.io/kaiju', u'Microbial populations as well as they biochemical activities are important components of environmental ecosystems, including the human microbiome. Deciphering the genomic content of these complex mixes of species is an important challenge but is essential to fully understand the regulation of their ecological balance. Here we apply meta3C, an experimental and computational approach that exploits the physical contacts between chromosomes to characterize large genomic regions of bacterial species mixed together, on a truly complex ecosystem: the mouse gut microbiota. Meta3C, which was initially described and applied onto controlled mixes of microorganisms, allowed the de novo assembly and scaffolding of numerous bacteria present into this natural mix. Importantly, the scaffolds analyzed exhibit the structural properties expected from typical bacterial chromosomes. Meta3C therefore paves the way to the in-depth analysis of genomic structuration of complex populations.', u'Interaction between proteins is a fundamental mechanism that underlies\nvirtually all biological processes. Many important interactions are conserved\nacross a large variety of species. The need to maintain interaction leads to a\nhigh degree of co-evolution between residues in the interface between partner\nproteins. The inference of protein-protein interaction networks from the\nrapidly growing sequence databases is one of the most formidable tasks in\nsystems biology today. We propose here a novel approach based on the\nDirect-Coupling Analysis of the co-evolution between inter-protein residue\npairs. We use ribosomal and trp operon proteins as test cases: For the small\nresp. large ribosomal subunit our approach predicts protein-interaction\npartners at a true-positive rate of 70% resp. 90% within the first 10\npredictions, with areas of 0.69 resp. 0.81 under the ROC curves for all\npredictions. In the trp operon, it assigns the two largest interaction scores\nto the only two interactions experimentally known. On the level of residue\ninteractions we show that for both the small and the large ribosomal subunit\nour approach predicts interacting residues in the system with a true positive\nrate of 60% and 85% in the first 20 predictions. We use artificial data to show\nthat the performance of our approach depends crucially on the size of the joint\nmultiple sequence alignments and analyze how many sequences would be necessary\nfor a perfect prediction if the sequences were sampled from the same model that\nwe use for prediction. Given the performance of our approach on the test data\nwe speculate that it can be used to detect new interactions, especially in the\nlight of the rapid growth of available sequence data.', u'Active protein translation can be assessed and measured using ribosome profiling sequencing strategies. Existing approaches make use of sequence fragment length or frame occupancy to differentiate between active translation and background noise, however they do not consider additional characteristics inherent to the technology which limits their overall accuracy. Here, we present an analytical tool that models the overall tri-nucleotide periodicity of ribosomal occupancy using a classifier based on spectral coherence. Our software, SPECtre, examines the relationship of normalized ribosome profiling read coverage over a rolling series of windows along a transcript against an idealized reference signal. A comparison of SPECtre against current methods on existing and new data shows a marked improvement in accuracy for detecting active translation and exhibits overall high sensitivity at a low false discovery rate.', u'The 75 species of Australian honeyeaters (Meliphagidae) are morphologically and ecologically diverse, with species feeding on nectar, insects, fruit, and other resources. We investigated ecomorphology and community structure of honeyeaters across Australia. First, we asked to what degree morphology and ecology (foraging behavior) are concordant. Second, we estimated rates of trait evolution. Third, we compared phylogenetic and trait community structure across the broad environmental gradients of continental Australia. We found that morphology explained 37% of the variance in ecology (and 62% vice versa), and that recovered multivariate ecomorphological relationships incorporated well-known bivariate relationships. Clades of large-bodied species exhibited elevated rates of morphological trait evolution, while members of Melithreptus showed slightly faster rates of ecological trait evolution. Finally, ecological trait diversity did not decline in parallel with phylogenetic diversity along a gradient of decreasing precipitation. We employ a new method (trait fields) and extend another (phylogenetic fields) to show that while species from phylogenetically clustered assemblages co-occur with morphologically similar species, these species are as varied in foraging behavior as those from more diverse assemblages. Thus, although closely related, these arid-adapted species have diverged in ecological space to a similar degree as their mesic counterparts, perhaps mediated by competition.', u"We have developed Cappable-seq that specifically captures primary RNA transcripts by enzymatically modifying the 5' triphosphorylated end of RNA with a selectable tag. We first applied Cappable-seq to E. coli , achieving up to 50 fold enrichment of primary transcripts and identifying an unprecedented 16539 transcription start sites (TSS) genome-wide at single base resolution. We also applied Cappable-seq to a mouse cecum sample and for the first time identified TSS in a microbiome. Furthermore, Cappable-seq universally depletes ribosomal RNA and reduces the complexity of the transcriptome to a single quantifiable tag per TSS enabling digital profiling of gene expression in any microbiome.", u'Cortical networks exhibit "global oscillations", in which neural spike times are entrained to an underlying oscillatory rhythm, but where individual neurons fire irregularly, on only a fraction of cycles. While the network dynamics underlying global oscillations have been well characterised, their function is debated. Here, we show that such global oscillations are a direct consequence of optimal efficient coding in spiking networks with synaptic delays. To avoid firing unnecessary spikes, neurons need to share information about the network state. Ideally, membrane potentials should be strongly correlated and reflect a "prediction error" while the spikes themselves are uncorrelated and occur rarely. We show that the most efficient representation is achieved when: (i) spike times are entrained to a global Gamma rhythm (implying a consistent representation of the error); but (ii) few neurons fire on each cycle (implying high efficiency), while (iii) excitation and inhibition are tightly balanced. This suggests that cortical networks exhibiting such dynamics are tuned to achieve a maximally efficient population code.', u'Background: Pervasive, 24-hour rhythms from the biological clock affect diverse biological processes in metabolism and behaviour, including the human cell division cycle and sleep-wake cycle, nightly transpiration and energy balance in plants, and seasonal breeding in both plants and animals. The clock mechanism in the laboratory model plant species Arabidopsis thaliana is complex, in part due to the multiple interlocking, negative feedback loops that link the clock genes. Clock gene mutants are powerful tools to manipulate and understand the clock mechanism and its effects on physiology. The LATE ELONGATED HYPOCOTYL and CIRCADIAN CLOCK ASSOCIATED 1 genes encode dawn-expressed, Myb-related repressor proteins that delay the expression of other clock genes until late in the day. Double mutant plants (lhy cca1) have low-amplitude, short-period rhythms that have been used in multiple studies of the plant circadian clock.\n\nResults: We used in vivo imaging of several luciferase (LUC) reporter genes to test how the rhythmic gene expression of wild-type and lhy cca1 mutant plants responded to light:dark cycles. Red, blue and red+blue light were similarly able to entrain these gene expression rhythms. The timing of expression rhythms in double mutant plants showed little or no response to the duration of light under 24h light:dark cycles (dusk sensitivity), in contrast to the wild type. As the period of the mutant clock is about 18h, we tested light:dark cycles of different duration (T cycles), simulating altered rotation of planet Earth. lhy cca1 double mutants regained as much dusk sensitivity in 20h T cycles as the wild type in 24h cycles, though the phase of the rhythm in the mutants was much earlier than wild type. The severe, triple lhy cca1 gi mutants also regained dusk sensitivity in 20h cycles. The double mutant showed some dusk sensitivity under 28h cycles. lhy cca1 double mutants under 28h cycles with short photoperiods, however, had the same apparent phase as wild-type plants.\n\nConclusion: Simulating altered planetary rotation with light:dark cycles can reveal normal circadian performance in clock mutants that have been described as arrhythmic under standard conditions. The features rescued here comprise a dynamic behaviour (apparent phase under 28h cycles) and a dynamic property (dusk sensitivity under 20h cycles). These conditional clock phenotypes indicate that parts of the clock mechanism continue to function independently of LHY and CCA1, despite the major role of these genes in wild-type plants under standard conditions.\n\nAccessibility: Most results here will be published only in this format, citable by the DOI. Data and analysis are publicly accessible on the BioDare resource (www.biodare.ed.ac.uk), as detailed in the links below. Transgenic lines are linked to Stock Centre IDs below (Table 7).', u'The response of gene expression to intra- and extra-cellular cues is largely mediated through changes in the activity of transcription factors (TFs), whose sequence specificities are largely known. However, the rules by which promoters decode the amount of active TF into gene expression are not well understood. Here, we measure the activity of 6500 designed promoters at six different levels of TF activity in budding yeast. We observe that maximum promoter activity is determined by TF activity and not by the number of sites. Surprisingly, the addition of an activator-binding site often reduces expression. A thermodynamic model that incorporates competition between neighboring binding sites for a local pool of TF molecules explains this behavior and accurately predicts both absolute expression and the amount by which addition of a site increases or reduces expression. Taken together, our findings support a model in which neighboring binding sites interact competitively when TF is limiting but otherwise act additively.', u'A model of avian genome evolution is proposed. The classical evolutionary equation is written in terms of nucleotide frequencies of the genome varying in time.  The evolution is described by a second-order differential equation. The diversity and the environmental potential play dominant role on the genome evolution.  Environmental potential parameters, evolutionary inertial parameter and dissipation parameter are estimated by avian genomic data. To describe the speciation event the quantum evolutionary equation is  proposed which is the generalization of the classical equation through correspondence principle. The Schrodinger wave function is the probability amplitude of nucleotide frequencies. The discreteness of quantum state is deduced and the ground-state wave function of avian genome is obtained. New species production is described by the quantum transition between discrete quantum states. The quantum transition rate is calculated from Schrodinger equation which provides a clue to understand the law of the rapid post-Cretaceous radiation of neoavian birds. The present article is the continuation of the author\'s work "a model on genome evolution" published at  arXiv:1411.2205 [q-bio.OT] (2014).', u'To investigate the association of KIAA0319 gene polymorphisms and developmental dyslexia in individuals of Uyghurian descent. Eighteen single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) of gene KIAA0319 were screened in a group of 196 patients with dyslexia and 196 controls of Uyghur descent by determined the genotypes using a custom-by-design 48-Plex SNPscan\u2122 Kit. SAS 9.1.3 software were used for data analysis. Seven SNPs(Pmin=0.001) of KIAA0319 have significant differences between the cases and controls under specific genotype models. Especially for rs6935076(Padjusted=0.020 under dominant model; Padjusted=0.028 under additive model) and rs3756821(Padjusted=0.021 under additive model), which still associated with dyslexia after Bonferroni correction. The linkage disequilibrium analysis showed four block within gene KIAA0319 and only the ten-maker haplotype(P=0.013) in block 4 was significantly more common in dyslexia children than in controls. The results indicated that genetic polymorphisms of KIAA0319 are associated with increased risk of developmental dyslexia in Uyghur population.', u'Adaptation to temporally fluctuating  environments can be achieved through direct phenotypic evolution, by  phenotypic plasticity (either developmental plasticity or trans-generational plasticity), or by randomizing offspring phenotypes (often called  diversifying bet-hedging). Theory has long held that plasticity can evolve when information about the future environment is reliable while bet-hedging can evolve when mixtures of phenotypes have high average fitness (leading to low among generation variance in fitness). To date, no study has studied the evolutionary routes that lead to the evolution of randomized offspring phenotypes on the one hand or deterministic maternal effects on the other. We develop simple, yet general, models of the evolution of maternal effects and are able to directly compare selection for deterministic and randomizing maternal effects and can also incorporate the notion of differential maternal costs of producing  offspring with alternative phenotypes. We find that  only a small set of parameters allow bet hedging type strategies to outcompete deterministic maternal effects. Not only must there be little or no informative cues available, but also the frequency with which different environments are present must fall within a narrow range. By contrast, when we consider the joint evolution of the maternal strategy and the set of offspring phenotypes we find that deterministic maternal effects can always invade the ancestral state (lacking any form of maternal effect). The long-term ESS may, however, involve some form of offspring randomization, but only if the phenotypes evolve extreme differences in environment-specific fitness.  Overall we conclude that deterministic maternal effects are much more likely to evolve than offspring randomization, and offspring randomization will only be maintained if it results in extreme differences in environment-specific fitness.', u'GABAergic interneurons are key regulators of hippocampal circuits, but our understanding of the diversity and classification of these cells remains controversial. Here we analyze the organization of interneurons in the CA1 area, using the combinatorial patterns of gene expression revealed by single-cell mRNA sequencing (scRNA-seq). This analysis reveals a 5-level hierarchy of cell classes. Most of the predicted classes correspond closely to known interneuron types, allowing us to predict a large number of novel molecular markers of these classes. In addition we identified a major new interneuron population localized at the border of strata radiatum and lacunosum-moleculare that we term "R2C2 cells" after their characteristic combinatorial expression of Rgs12, Reln, Cxcl14, and Cpne5. Several predictions of this classification scheme were verified using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry, providing further confidence in the gene expression patterns and novel classes predicted by the single cell data.', u'There is an ongoing debate about whether face recognition and object recognition constitute separate domains. Clarification of this issue can have important theoretical implications as face recognition is often used as a prime example of domain-specificity in mind and brain. An important source of input to this debate comes from studies of individuals with developmental prosopagnosia, suggesting that face recognition can be selectively impaired. We put the selectivity-hypothesis to test by assessing the performance of 10 subjects with developmental prosopagnosia on demanding tests of visual object processing involving both regular and degraded drawings. None of the individuals exhibited a dissociation between face and object recognition, and as a group they were significantly more affected by degradation of objects than control participants. Importantly, we also find positive correlations between the severity of the face recognition impairment and the degree of impaired performance with degraded objects. This suggests that the face and object deficits are systematically related rather than coincidental. We conclude that at present, there is no strong evidence in the literature on developmental prosopagnosia supporting domain-specific accounts of face recognition.', u'Breakthroughs in genomics have begun to unravel the genetic architecture of schizophrenia risk, providing methods for quantifying schizophrenia polygenic risk based on common genetic variants.  Our objective in the current study was to understand the relationship between schizophrenia genetic risk variants and neurocognitive development in healthy individuals.  We first used combined genomic and neurocognitive data from the Philadelphia Neurodevelopmental Cohort (PNC; 4303 participants ages 8 - 21 years) to screen 26 neurocognitive phenotypes for their association with schizophrenia polygenic risk.  Schizophrenia polygenic risk was estimated for each participant based on summary statistics from the most recent schizophrenia genome-wide association analysis (Psychiatric Genomics Consortium 2014).  After correction for multiple comparisons, greater schizophrenia polygenic risk was significantly associated with reduced speed of emotion identification and verbal reasoning.  These associations were significant by age 9 and there was no evidence of interaction between schizophrenia polygenic risk and age on neurocognitive performance.  We then looked at the association between schizophrenia polygenic risk and emotion identification speed in the Harvard / MGH Brain Genomics Superstruct Project sample (GSP; 695 participants age 18-35 years), where we replicated the association between schizophrenia polygenic risk and emotion identification speed. These analyses provide evidence for a replicable association between polygenic risk for schizophrenia and specific aspects of neurocognitive performance.  Our findings indicate that individual differences in genetic risk for schizophrenia are linked with the development of social cognition and potentially verbal reasoning, and that these associations emerge relatively early in development.', u"We consider the problem of automatic genome segmentation (AGS) that aims to assign discrete labels to all genomic regions based on multiple ChIP-seq samples. We propose to use a hybrid model that combines a hidden Markov model (HMM) with an artificial neural network (ANN) to overcome the weaknesses of a standard HMM. Our contributions are threefold: first, we benchmark two approaches to generate targets for ANN training on an example dataset; second, we investigate many different ANN models to identify the ones with best predictions on chromatin states; third, we test different hyper-parameters and discuss how they affect the machine learning algorithms' performance. We find our best performing models to beat two pervious state-of-the-art methods for AGS by large margins.", u"Summary Points\nHealth disparities persist across race/ethnicity for the majority of Healthy People 2010 health indicators.\nMost physicians and scientists are informed by research extrapolated from a largely homogenous population, usually White and male.\nA growing proportion of Americans are not fully benefiting from clinical and biomedical advances since racial and ethnic minorities make up nearly 40% of the U.S. population.\nIgnoring the racial/ethnic diversity of the U.S. population is a missed scientific opportunity to fully understand the factors that lead to disease or health.\nU.S. biomedical research and study populations must better reflect the country's changing demographics. Adequate representation of diverse populations in scientific research is imperative as a matter of social justice, economics, and science.", u'DNA methylation is an important epigenetic modification related to a variety of diseases including cancers. One of the key issues of methylation analysis is to detect the differential methylation sites between case and control groups. Previous approaches describe data with simple summary statistics and kernel functions, and then use statistical tests to determine the difference. However, a summary statistics-based approach cannot capture complicated underlying structure, and a kernel functions-based approach lacks interpretability of results. \nWe propose a novel method D3M, for detection of differential distribution of methylation, based on distribution-valued data. Our method can detect high-order moments, such as shapes of underlying distributions in methylation profiles, based on the Wasserstein metric. We test the significance of the difference between case and control groups and provide an interpretable summary of the results. The simulation results show that the proposed method achieves promising accuracy and outperforms previous methods. Glioblastoma multiforme and lower grade glioma data from The Cancer Genome Atlas and show that our method supports recent biological advances and suggests new insights.', u'How mating affects male lifespan is poorly understood. Using single worm lifespan assays, we discovered that males live significantly shorter after mating in both androdioecious (male and hermaphroditic) and gonochoristic (male and female) Caenorhabditis. Germline-dependent shrinking, glycogen loss, and ectopic expression of vitellogenins contribute to male post-mating lifespan reduction, which is conserved between the sexes. In addition to mating-induced lifespan decrease, worms are subject to killing by male pheromone-dependent toxicity. C. elegans males are the most sensitive, whereas C. remanei are immune, suggesting that males in androdioecious and gonochoristic species utilize male pheromone differently as a toxin or a chemical messenger. Our study reveals two mechanisms involved in male lifespan regulation: germline-dependent shrinking and death is the result of an unavoidable cost of reproduction and is evolutionarily conserved, whereas male pheromone-mediated killing provides a novel mechanism to cull the male population and ensure a return to the self-reproduction mode in androdioecious species. Our work highlights the importance of understanding the shared vs. sex- and species-specific mechanisms that regulate lifespan.', u'Over the past few years, cloud-based platforms have been proposed to address storage, management, and computation of large-scale data, especially in the field of genomics. However, for collaboration efforts involving multiple institutes, data transfer and management, interoperability and standardization among different platforms have imposed new challenges. This paper proposes a distributed bioinformatics\nplatform that can leverage local clusters with remote computational clusters for genomic analysis using the unified bioinformatics workflow. The platform is built with a data server configured with iRODS, a computation cluster authenticated with iPlant Agave system, and web server to interact with the platform. A Genome-Wide Association Study workflow is integrated to validate the feasibility of the proposed approach.', u'Multigenerational pedigrees have been developed for free-ranging populations of many species, are frequently used to describe mating systems, and are used in studies of quantitative genetics. Here, we document the development of a 4449-individual pedigree for the Western Hudson Bay subpopulation of polar bears (Ursus maritimus), created from relationships inferred from field and genetic data collected over six generations of bears sampled between 1966 and 2011. Microsatellite genotypes for 22-25 loci were obtained for 2945 individuals, and parentage analysis was performed using the program FRANZ, including additional offspring-dam associations known only from capture data. Parentage assignments for a subset of 859 individuals were confirmed using an independent medium-density set of single nucleotide polymorphisms. To account for unsampled males in our population, we performed half-sib/full-sib analysis to reconstruct males using the program COLONY, resulting in a final pedigree containing 2957 assigned maternities and 1861 assigned paternities with only one observed case of inbreeding between close relatives. During genotyping, we identified two independently captured two-year-old males with identical genotypes at all 25 loci, showing--for the first time--a case of monozygotic twinning among polar bears. In addition, we documented six new cases of cub adoption, which we attribute to cub misidentification or misdirected maternal care by a female bereaved of her young. Importantly, none of these adoptions could be attributed to reduced female vigilance caused by immobilization to facilitate scientific handling, as has previously been suggested.', u"The combination of laterally activating and inhibiting feedbacks is well known to spontaneously generate spatial organisation. It was introduced by Gierer and Meinhardt as an extension of Turing's great insight, that two reacting and diffusing chemicals can spontaneously drive spatial morphogenesis per se.  In this study, we develop an accessible nonlinear and discrete probabilistic model to study simple generalisations of lateral activation and inhibition. By doing so, we identify novel modes of morphogenesis beyond the familiar Turing-type modes; notably, beyond stripes, hexagonal nets, pores, and labyrinths, we identify labyrinthine highways, Kagome lattices, gyrating labyrinths, and multi-colour travelling waves and spirals. The results are discussed within the context of Turing's original motivating interest: the mechanisms which underpin the morphogenesis of living organisms.", u'The reasons for the evolution and maintenance of striking visual phenotypes are as widespread as the species that display these phenotypes. While study systems such as Heliconius and Dendrobatidae have been well characterized and provide critical information about the evolution of these traits, a breadth of new study systems, in which the phenotype of interest can be easily manipulated and quantified, are essential for gaining a more general understanding of these specific evolutionary processes. One such model is the multicolored Asian lady beetle, Harmonia axyridis, which displays significant elytral spot and color polymorphism. Using transcriptome data from two life stages, adult and larva, we characterize the transcriptome, thereby laying a foundation for further analysis and identification of the genes responsible for the continual maintenance of spot variation in H. axyridis.', u"The breadth and scope of the biomedical literature hinders a timely and thorough comprehension of its content. PubMed, the leading repository for biomedical literature, currently holds over 26 million records, and is growing at a rate of over 1.2 million records per year, with about 300 records added daily that mention `cancer' in the title or abstract. Natural language processing (NLP) can assist in accessing and interpreting this massive volume of literature, including its quality. NLP approaches to the automatic extraction of biomedical entities and relationships may assist the development of explanatory models that can comprehensively scan and summarize biomedical articles for end users. Users can also formulate structured queries against these entities, and their interactions, to mine the latest developments in related areas of interest. In this article, we explore the latest advances in automated event extraction methods in the biomedical domain, focusing primarily on tools participated in the Biomedical NLP (BioNLP) Shared Task (ST) competitions. We review the leading BioNLP methods, summarize their results, and their innovative contributions in this field.", u'Multivariate estimates of genetic parameters are subject to substantial sampling variation, especially for smaller data sets and more than a few traits.  A simple modification of  standard, maximum likelihood procedures for multivariate analyses to estimate genetic\ncovariances is described, which can improve estimates by substantially reducing their sampling variances. This is achieved maximizing the likelihood subject to a penalty. Borrowing from Bayesian principles, we propose a mild, default penalty -- derived assuming a Beta\ndistribution of scale-free functions of the covariance components to be estimated -- rather than laboriously attempting to determine the\nstringency of penalization from the data.  An extensive simulation study is presented demonstrating that such penalties can yield very worthwhile reductions in loss, i.e. the difference from population values, for a wide range of scenarios and without distorting  estimates of phenotypic covariances.  Moreover, mild default penalties tend not to increase loss in difficult cases and, on average, achieve reductions in loss of similar magnitude than computationally demanding schemes to optimize the degree of penalization.  Pertinent\ndetails required for the adaptation of standard algorithms to locate the maximum of the  likelihood function are outlined.', u"RNA molecules adopt a wide variety of structures that perform many cellular functions, including catalysis, small molecule sensing, and cellular defense, among others. Our ability to characterize, predict, and design RNA structures are key factors for understanding and controlling the biological roles of RNAs. Fortunately, there has been rapid progress in this area, especially with respect to experimental methods that can characterize RNA structures in a high throughput fashion using chemical probing and next-generation sequencing. Here, we describe one such method, selective 2'-hydroxyl acylation analyzed by primer extension sequencing (SHAPE-Seq), which measures nucleotide resolution flexibility information for RNAs in vitro and in vivo. We outline the process of designing and performing a SHAPE-Seq experiment and describe methods for using experimental SHAPE-Seq data to restrain computational folding algorithms to generate more accurate predictions of RNA secondary structure. We also provide a number of examples of SHAPE-Seq reactivity spectra obtained in vitro and in vivo and discuss important considerations for performing SHAPE-Seq experiments, both in terms of collecting and analyzing data. Finally we discuss improvements and extensions of these experimental and computational techniques that promise to deepen our knowledge of RNA folding and function.", u'Ewing Sarcoma break point region 1 (EWSR1) is a multi-functional RNA-binding protein that is involved in many cellular processes, from gene expression to RNA processing and transport. Translocations into its locus lead to chimeric proteins with tumorigenic activity, that lack the RNA binding domain. With crosslinking and immunoprecipitation we have found that EWSR1 binds to intronic regions that are present in polyadenylated nuclear RNAs, which include the translocation-prone region of its own locus. Reduced EWSR1 expression leads to gene expression changes that indicate reduced proliferation. By fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) with break-apart probes that flanked the translocation-prone region within the EWSR1 locus we found that reduced EWSR1 expression increases the frequency of split signals, indicative of DNA double strand breaks (DSB). The response in phosphorylated histone H2AX and p53-binding protein 1 (53BP1) double-stained foci to the topoisomerase poison camptothecin in cells treated with a control shRNA and with sh-EWSR1 further suggests that EWSR1 functions in the prevention of DNA DSBs. Our data reveal a new function of the EWSR1 member of the FET family and suggest a connection between the RNA-binding activity of EWSR1 and the instability of its own locus that may play a role in malignancy-associated translocations.', u'Breast cancer remains the second leading cause of cancer death in women, exceeded only by lung cancer. Specifically, triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) has the worst prognosis, as it is more invasive and lacks estrogen, progesterone, and HER2 receptors that can be targeted with therapies. Due to the need for effective therapies for this type of breast cancer, it is critical to develop methods to (1) understand how TNBC progresses and (2) facilitate development of effective therapies. Here, we describe a multiscale model focusing on tumor formation. Our approach uses multiple scales to investigate the progression and possible treatments of tumors.', u'The Neurogenin (Ngn) transcription factors control early neurogenesis and neurite outgrowth in mammalian cortex. In contrast to their proneural activity, their function in neurite growth is poorly understood. Drosophila has a single predicted Ngn homologue called Tap, whose function is completely unknown. Here we show that Tap is not a proneural protein in Drosophila but is required for proper axonal growth and guidance of neurons of the mushroom body (MB), a neuropile required for associative learning and memory. Genetic and expression analyses suggest that Tap inhibits excessive axonal growth by fine regulation of the levels of the Wnt signaling adaptor protein, Dishevelled.', u'Are organisms free to reach their adaptive optima or constrained by hard-wired developmental programs? Recent evidence suggests that the arrangement of stomata on abaxial (lower) and adaxial (upper) leaf surfaces may be an important adaptation in plants, but stomatal traits on each surface likely share developmental pathways that could hamper evolution. We reviewed the quantitative genetics of stomatal density to look for loci that (1) affected ab- or adaxial density independently or (2) pleiotropically affected stomatal density on both surfaces. We also used phylogenetic comparative methods to test for independent versus correlated evolution of stomatal traits (density, size, and pore index) on each surface from 14 amphistomatous wild tomato taxa (Solanum; Solanaceae). Naturally occurring and laboratory-induced genetic variation alters stomatal density on one surface without affecting the other, indicating that development does not strongly constrain the spectrum of available mutations. Among wild tomato taxa, traits most closely related to function (stomatal pore index and density) evolved independently on each surface, whereas stomatal size was constrained by correlated evolution. Genetics and phylogenetics demonstrate mostly independent evolution of stomatal function on each leaf surface, facilitating largely unfettered access to fitness optima.', u'Motivation:\nLarge-scale gene expression profiling has been widely used to characterize cellular states in response to various disease\nconditions, genetic perturbations, etc. Although the cost of whole-genome expression profiles has been dropping\nsteadily, generating a compendium of expression profiling over thousands of samples is still very expensive. Recognizing\nthat gene expressions are often highly correlated, researchers from the NIH LINCS program have developed a cost-\neffective strategy of profiling only  \u03031,000 carefully selected landmark genes and relying on computational methods to\ninfer the expression of remaining target genes. However, the computational approach adopted by the LINCS program\nis currently based on linear regression, limiting its accuracy since it does not capture complex nonlinear relationship\nbetween expression of genes.\n\nResults:\nWe present a deep learning method (abbreviated as D-GEX) to infer the expression of target genes from the expression\nof landmark genes. We used the microarray-based GEO dataset, consisting of 111K expression profiles, to train our\nmodel and compare its performance to those from other methods. In terms of mean absolute error averaged across\nall genes, deep learning significantly outperforms linear regression with 15.33% relative improvement. A gene-wise\ncomparative analysis shows that deep learning achieves lower error than linear regression in 99.97% of the target\ngenes. We also tested the performance of our learned model on an independent RNA-Seq-based GTEx dataset, which\nconsists of 2,921 expression profiles. Deep learning still outperforms linear regression with 6.57% relative improvement,\nand achieves lower error in 81.31% of the target genes.\n\nAvailability:\nD-GEX is available at https://github.com/uci-cbcl/D-GEX.', u'A recent study conducted the first genome-wide scan for selection in Inuit from Greenland using SNP chip data. Here, we report that selection in the region with the second most extreme signal of positive selection in Greenlandic Inuit favored a deeply divergent haplotype introgressed from an archaic population most closely related to Denisovans. The region contains two genes, WARS2 and TBX15, and has previously been associated with body-fat distribution in humans. We show that the adaptively introgressed allele has been under selection in a much larger geographic region than just Greenland. Furthermore, it is associated with changes in expression of WARS2 and TBX15 in multiple tissues including the adrenal gland and subcutaneous adipose tissue, and is associated with BMI-adjusted waist circumference. We also find that in this region both the Denisovan and individuals homozygous for the introgressed allele display differential DNA methylation.', u"Multisensory integration is a prerequisite for effective locomotor control in most animals. Especially the impressive aerial performance of insects relies on rapid and precise integration of multiple sensory modalities that provide feedback on different time scales. In flies, continuous visual signalling from the compound eyes is fused with phasic proprioceptive feedback to ensure precise neural activation of wing steering muscles within narrow temporal phase bands of the stroke cycle. This phase-locked activation relies on mechanoreceptors distributed over wings and gyroscopic halteres. Here we investigate visual steering performance of tethered flying fruit flies with reduced haltere and wing feedback signalling. Using a flight simulator, we evaluated visual object fixation behaviour, optomotor altitude control, and saccadic escape reflexes. The behavioural assays show an antagonistic effect of wing and haltere signalling on visuomotor gain during flight. Compared to controls, suppression of haltere feedback attenuates while suppression of wing feedback enhances the animal's wing steering range. Our results suggest that the generation of motor commands owing to visual perception is dynamically controlled by proprioception. We outline a potential physiological mechanism based on the biomechanical properties of wing steering muscles and sensory integration processes at the level of motoneurons. Collectively, the findings contribute to our general understanding how moving animals integrate sensory information with dynamically changing temporal structure.", u'Increasing evidence shows that phenotypic variance is genetically controlled; the precise mechanisms of genetic control over the variance remain to be determined. Here, using variance association mapping analysis of gene expression, we show that common genetic variation contributes to gene expression variability via distinct modes of action--e.g., epistasis and decanalization. We focused on the full set of genetic loci associated with gene express variance, i.e., genome-wide expression variability QTLs (or evQTLs), in humans. We found that a quarter of evQTLs, explained by the epistasis model, could be attributed to the presence of "third-party" partial eQTLs that influence gene expression in a fraction, rather than the entire set, of samples. The other three-quarters of evQTLs, explained by the decanalization model, were attributable to the disruptive effect conferred by their own SNPs on transcriptional robustness--that is, these SNPs are responsible for modulating the stability of transcriptional machinery. To validate the model, we measured the discordant expression between monozygotic twins, as well as the level of transcriptional noise in individual cell lines. We showed that decanalizing evQTL SNPs indeed affect the level of transcriptional noise in individuals and contribute to gene expression variability at the population level. Together, our results suggest that common genetic variation works either interactively or independently to influence gene expression variability. These findings may have implications for methodology development toward a new variability-centered research paradigm for mapping quantitative traits.', u"Coalescent-based species tree inference has  become widely used in the analysis of genome-scale multilocus and SNP datasets when the goal is inference of a species-level phylogeny.  However, numerous evolutionary processes are known to violate the assumptions of a coalescence-only model and complicate inference of the species tree. One such process is hybrid speciation, in which a species shares its ancestry with two distinct species.  Although many methods have been proposed to detect hybrid speciation, only a few have considered both hybridization and coalescence in a unified framework, and these are generally limited to the setting in which putative hybrid species must be identified in advance. Here we propose a method that can examine genome-scale data for a large number of taxa and detect those taxa that may have arisen via hybridization, as well as their potential ``parental'' taxa.  The method is based on a model that considers both coalescence and hybridization together, and uses phylogenetic invariants to construct a test that scales well in terms of computational time for both the number of taxa and the amount of sequence data. We test the method using simulated data for up 20 taxa and 100,000bp, and find that the method accurately identifies both recent and ancient hybrid species in less than 30 seconds. We apply the method to two empirical datasets, one composed of Sistrurus rattlesnakes  for which hybrid speciation is not supported by previous work, and one consisting of several species of Heliconius butterflies for which some evidence of hybrid speciation has been previously found.", u"The Kets, an ethnic group in the Yenisei River basin, Russia, are considered the last nomadic hunter-gatherers of Siberia, and Ket language has no transparent affiliation with any language family. We investigated connections between the Kets and Siberian and North American populations, with emphasis on the Mal'ta and Paleo-Eskimo ancient genomes, using original data from 46 unrelated samples of Kets and 42 samples of their neighboring ethnic groups (Uralic-speaking Nganasans, Enets, and Selkups). We genotyped over 130,000 autosomal SNPs, identified mitochondrial and Y-chromosomal haplogroups, and performed high-coverage genome sequencing of two Ket individuals. We established that Nganasans, Kets, Selkups, and Yukaghirs form a cluster of populations most closely related to Paleo-Eskimos in Siberia (not considering indigenous populations of Chukotka and Kamchatka). Kets are closely related to modern Selkups and to some Bronze and Iron Age populations of the Altai region, with all these groups sharing a high degree of Mal'ta ancestry. Implications of these findings for the linguistic hypothesis uniting Ket and Na-Dene languages into a language macrofamily are discussed.", u'Background\nBreast cancer (BC) ranks among the most common cancers in Sudan and worldwide\nwith hefty toll on female health and human resources. Recent studies have uncovered\na common BC signature characterized by low frequency of oncogenic mutations and\nhigh frequency of epigenetic silencing of major BC tumor suppressor genes. Therefore,\nwe conducted a genome-wide methylome study to characterize aberrant DNA\nmethylation in breast cancer.\nResults\nDifferential methylation analysis between primary tumor samples and normal samples\nfrom healthy adjacent tissues yielded 20188 differentially methylated positions (DMPs),\nwhich is further divided into 13633 hypermethylated sites corresponding to 5339 genes\nand 6555 hypomethylated sites corresponding to 2811 genes. Moreover,\nbioinformatics analysis revealed epigenetic dysregulation of major developmental\npathways including hippo signaling pathway. We also uncovered many clues to a\npossible role for EBV infection in BC\nConclusion\nOur results clearly show the utility of epigenetic assays in interrogating breast cancer\ntumorigenesis, and pinpointing specific developmental and viral pathways\ndysregulation that might serve as potential biomarkers or targets for therapeutic\ninterventions', u"Genome sequencing studies of de novo mutations in humans have revealed surprising incongruities with our understanding of human germline mutation. In particular, the mutation rate observed in modern humans is substantially lower than that estimated from calibration against the fossil record, and the paternal age effect in mutations transmitted to offspring is much weaker than expected from our longstanding model of spermatogenesis. I consider possible explanations for these differences, including evolutionary changes in life history parameters such as generation time and the age of puberty, a possible contribution from undetected post-zygotic mutations early in embryo development, and variation in cellular mutation rates at different stages of the germline. I suggest a revised model of stem cell state transitions during spermatogenesis, in which 'dark' gonial stem cells play a more active role than hitherto envisaged, with a long cycle time undetected in experimental observations. More generally, I argue that the mutation rate and its evolution depend intimately on the structure of the germline in humans and other primates.", u"Maintenance of sexual reproduction and genetic recombination imposes physiological costs when compared to parthenogenic reproduction, most prominently: for maintaining the corresponding (molecular) machinery, for finding a mating partner, and through the decreased fraction of females in a population, which decreases the reproductive capacity. Based on principles from information theory, we have previously developed a new population genetic model, and applying it in simulations, we have recently hypothesized that all species maintain the maximum genomic complexity that is required by their niche and allowed by their mutation rate and selection intensity. Applying this idea to the complexity overhead of recombination maintenance, its costs must be more than compensated by an additional capacity for complexity in recombining populations. Here, we show a simple mechanism, where recombination helps to maintain larger biases of alleles frequencies in a population, so the advantageous alleles can have increased frequency. This allows recombining populations to maintain higher fitness and phenotypic efficiency in comparison with asexual populations with the same parameters. Random mating alone already significantly increases the ability to maintain genomic and phenotypic complexity. Sexual selection provides additional capacity for this complexity. The model can be considered as a unifying synthesis of previous hypotheses about the roles of recombination in Muller's ratchet, mutation purging and Red Queen dynamics, because the introduction of recombination both increases population frequencies of beneficial alleles and decreases detrimental ones. In addition, we suggest simple explanations for niche-dependent prevalence of transient asexuality and the exceptional asexual lineage of Bdelloid rotifers.", u'We combined mRNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) with bulked segregant analysis (BSA) to fine map significant agronomic trait genes by developing polymorphism molecular markers at the transcriptome level. RNA-Seq data provides BSA with genotype information in RNA Pool to screen out linked genes (low in false positives) after data analysis, and the efficiency of development and verification of the linked polymorphism marker is greatly improved. This combined approach (named BSR) has been applied to plant transcriptome sequencing in sunflower, corn, wheat, and Arabidopsis thaliana. Ginkgo biloba is a deciduous tree that belongings to the Ginkgoaceae family and has been recognized as a \u201cliving fossil\u201d. It has important economic and cultural value in China. The lifetime of G. biloba is very long, and its growth is relatively slow. Studies have shown that geographic latitude, temperature, and soil nutrient influence the growth of G. biloba; however, little is known about growth-related genes. In this study, transcriptome sequencing of high growth (GD) and low growth (BD) samples of G. biloba half-sib families was performed. After assembling the clean reads, 601 differential expression genes were detected and 513 of them were assigned functional annotations. Single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) analysis identified SNPs associated with 119 genes in the GD and BD groups; 58 of these genes were annotated. This study provides molecular level data that could be used for seed selection of high growth G biloba half-sib families for future breeding programs.', u'The intracellular pathogen Burkholderia pseudomallei, which is endemic to parts of southeast Asia and northern Australia, causes the disease melioidosis. Although acute infections can be treated with antibiotics, melioidosis is difficult to cure, and some patients develop chronic infections or a recrudescence of the disease months or years after treatment of the initial infection. B. pseudomallei strains have a high level of natural resistance to a variety of antibiotics, and with limited options for new antibiotics on the horizon, alternatives are needed.\n\nThe aim of the present study was to characterize the metabolic capabilities of B. pseudomallei, identify metabolites and aspects of the metabolic network crucial for pathogen survival, understand the metabolic interactions that occur between pathogen and host cells, and determine if any of the metabolic enzymes produced by the pathogen might be potential antibacterial targets. \n\nThis aim was accomplished through genome scale metabolic modeling of B. pseudomallei under different external conditions, including all nutrients that could be consumed by the model and only the nutrients available in culture media. Using this approach, candidate chokepoints were identified, then knocked out in silico under the different nutrient conditions. The effect of each knockout on the metabolic network was examined. When four of the candidate chokepoints were knocked out in silico, the flux through the B. pseudomallei network was decreased, depending on the nutrient conditions. These results demonstrate the utility of genome-scale metabolic modeling methods for in silico studies of pathogen metabolism and for drug target identification in B. pseudomallei.', u'The molecular mechanisms and signalling pathways that regulate the in vitro preservation of\ndistinct pluripotent stem cell configurations, and their induction in somatic cells via direct\nreprogramming approaches, continue to constitute a highly exciting area of research. In this\nreview, we provide an integrative synthesis on recent discoveries related to isolating unique\nnaive and primed pluripotent stem cell states with altered functional and molecular\ncharacteristics, and from different species. We overview pathways underlying pluripotent state\ntransitions and interconversion in vitro and in vivo. We conclude by highlighting unresolved key\nquestions, future directions and potential novel applications of such dynamic pluripotent cell\nstates.', u'This note summarizes some mathematical relations between the probability distributions for the states of a network of binary units and a subnetwork thereof, under an assumption of symmetry. These relations are standard results of probability theory, but seem to be rarely used in neuroscience. Some of their consequences for inferences between network and subnetwork, especially in connection with the maximum-entropy principle, are briefly discussed. The meanings and applicability of the assumption of symmetry are also discussed.', u'Germline copy number variants (CNVs) are known to affect a large portion of the human genome and have been implicated in many diseases. Although whole-genome sequencing can help identify CNVs, existing analytical methods suffer from limited sensitivity and specificity. Here we show that this is in large part due to the non-uniformity of read coverage, even after intra-sample normalization, and that this is exacerbated in regions of low-mappability. To improve on this, we propose PopSV, an analytical method that uses multiple samples to control for technical variation and enables the robust detection of CNVs. We show that PopSV is able to detect up to 2.7 times more variants compared to previous methods, with an accuracy of about 90%. Applying PopSV to 640 normal and cancer whole-genome datasets, we demonstrate that CNVs affect on average 7.4 million DNA bases in each individual, a 23% increase versus previous estimates. Notably, we find that regions of low-mappability, which were often concealed in previous analyses, harbor approximately 10 times more CNVs than the rest of the genome and that this contrasts with somatic CNVs (sCNVs) that are nearly uniformly distributed. We also observe that CNVs are found more than expected near centromeres and telomeres, in segmental duplications, in specific types of satellite repeats and in some of the most recent families of transposable elements. Although CNVs are found to be depleted in protein-coding genes, we identify 7206 genes with at least one exonic CNV, 324 of which harbored CNVs that would have been missed if low-mappability regions had been excluded. Similarly, 2253 trait- and disease-associated loci are observed to overlap at least one CNV. Our results provide the most comprehensive map of CNVs across the human genome to date and demonstrate the broad functional impact of this type of genetic variation including in regions of low-mappability.', u'Several common fetal genetic variants have been associated with birth weight, but little is known about how maternal genetic variation influences fetal growth through the intra-uterine environment. To identify maternal genetic variants associated with birth weight, we performed a meta-analysis of 11 genome-wide association studies (GWAS; n = 19,626 women of European descent). We selected 18 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) for replication analysis in up to 13 further studies (n = 18,319 women of European descent). One SNP reached genome-wide significance (rs10830963, P = 2.0 x 10-11) in a combined analysis of discovery and replication results. Rs10830963 is intronic in MTNR1B and is known from previous GWAS to be associated with fasting glucose levels, type 2 diabetes and gestational diabetes. Each copy of rs10830963-G (the allele associated with higher fasting glucose) corresponded to a 31g [95%CI: 22, 41g] higher offspring birth weight. The association between maternal rs10830963 and birth weight was unaltered by adjustment for any potentially confounding effects of fetal genotype in 8716 maternal-fetal pairs. Although no other SNPs reached genome-wide significance, there was an excess of low P-values among SNPs known to be associated with fasting glucose levels.  Our study demonstrates that maternal genetic variation at MTNR1B influences offspring birth weight and supports a broader role of genetic variation affecting maternal glucose levels in fetal growth. Our study also highlights that the effect sizes of associations between other maternal genetic variants and birth weight are unlikely to exceed 20g per allele, and therefore much larger sample sizes will be required to detect them.', u'Eukaryotic cells use microtubule-based intracellular transport for the delivery of many subcellular cargos, including organelles. The canonical view of organelle transport is that organelles directly recruit molecular motors via cargo-specific adaptors. In contrast to this view, we show here that peroxisomes move by hitchhiking on early endosomes, an organelle that directly recruits the transport machinery. Using the filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans we find that hitchhiking is mediated by a novel endosome-associated linker protein, PxdA. PxdA is required for normal distribution and long-range movement of peroxisomes, but not early endosomes or nuclei. Using simultaneous time-lapse imaging we find that early endosome-associated PxdA localizes to the leading edge of moving peroxisomes. We identify a coiled-coil region within PxdA that is necessary and sufficient for early endosome localization and peroxisome distribution and motility. These results present a new mechanism of microtubule-based organelle transport where peroxisomes hitchhike on early endosomes and identify PxdA as the novel linker protein required for this coupling.', u'Understanding the transmission dynamics of infectious diseases is important for both biological research and public health applications. It has been widely demonstrated that statistical modeling provides a firm basis for inferring relevant epidemiological quantities from incidence and molecular data. However, the complexity of transmission dynamic models causes two challenges: Firstly, the likelihood function of the models is generally not computable and computationally intensive simulation-based inference methods need to be employed. Secondly, the model may not be fully identifiable from the available data. While the first difficulty can be tackled by computational and algorithmic advances, the second obstacle is more fundamental. Identifiability issues may lead to inferences which are more driven by the prior assumptions than the data themselves. We here consider a popular and relatively simple, yet analytically intractable model for the spread of tuberculosis based on classical IS6110 fingerprinting data. We report on the identifiability of the model, presenting also some methodological advances regarding the inference. Using likelihood approximations, it is shown that the reproductive value cannot be identified from the data available and that the posterior distributions obtained in previous work have likely been substantially dominated by the assumed prior distribution. Further, we show that the inferences are influenced by the assumed infectious population size which has generally been kept fixed in previous work. We demonstrate that the infectious population size can be inferred if the remaining epidemiological parameters are already known with sufficient precision.', u"Hashimoto's thyroiditis is one of the most common autoimmune diseases in humans and, similar to other autoimmune diseases, is multifactorial in nature. Moreover, the expression of TLRs has been implicated in the pathogenesis of autoimmune and inflammatory diseases, such as diabetes and insulinitis. The TLRs are a family of at least 10 receptors associated with innate immunity that are present in monocytes, macrophages, and dendritic cells, which recognize highly conserved patterns of the surface of microorganisms, such as LPS, peptidoglycan, and dsRNA and CpG sequences.", u'With the advent of next generation high-throughput DNA sequencing technologies, omics experiments have become the mainstay for studying diverse biological effects on a genome wide scale.  ChIP-seq is the omics technique that enables genome wide localization of transcription factor binding or epigenetic modification events. Since the inception of ChIP-seq in 2007, many methods have been developed to infer ChIP target binding loci from the resultant reads after mapping them to a reference genome.  However, interpreting these data has proven challenging, and as such these algorithms have several shortcomings, including susceptibility to false positives due to artifactual peaks, poor localization of binding sites, and the requirement for a total DNA input control which increases the cost of performing these experiments. We present Ritornello, a new approach with roots in digital signal processing (DSP) that addresses all of these problems. We show that Ritornello generally performs equally or better than the peak callers tested and recommended by the ENCODE consortium, but in contrast, Ritornello does not require a matched total DNA input control to avoid false positives, effectively decreasing the sequencing cost to perform ChIP-seq.', u'Graphical solutions of ordinary differential equations for simplified processes of heat flow in fluids (Lorenz system) and an idea of common mathematical description are the basis for the presented thermodynamical leukemia model. The model provides description of normal hematopoiesis in leukemia as two hierarchical steady states corresponding to remission and relapse. Transition between them is possible through pitchfork bifurcation which is considered as the common symmetrical mechanism for the phase space changes in leukemia. The phenomenon of spontaneous remission is explained. Cytopenia is considered as an adaptive reaction of hematopoiesis to entropy increase caused by leukemic clone. The following hypotheses are formulated: a) percentage of leukemia cell in marrow for relapse or remission criterion is not strict cut-off constant but a variable value; b) Probability of getting remission depends upon reaching bifurcation; c) Length of remission depends upon degree of eradication of leukemia cells in induction.', u'Saccharomyces cerevisiae and its sibling species S. paradoxus are known to inhabit temperate arboreal habitats across the globe. Despite their sympatric distribution in the wild, S. cerevisiae is predominantly associated with human fermentations. The apparent ecological differentiation of these species is particularly striking in Europe where S. paradoxus is abundant in forests and S. cerevisiae is abundant in vineyards. However, ecological differences may be confounded with geographic differences in species abundance. To compare the distribution and abundance of these two species we isolated Saccharomyces strains from over 1,200 samples taken from vineyard and forest habitats in Slovenia. We isolated numerous strains of S. cerevisiae and S. paradoxus as well as small number of S. kudriavzevii strains from both vineyard and forest environments. We find S. cerevisiae less abundant than S. paradoxus on oak trees within and outside the vineyard, but more abundant on grapevines and associated substrates. Analysis of the uncultured microbiome shows that both S. cerevisiae and S. paradoxus are rare species in soil and bark samples, but can be much more common in grape must. In contrast to S. paradoxus, European strains of S. cerevisiae have acquired multiple traits thought to be important for life in the vineyard and dominance of wine fermentations. We conclude that S. cerevisiae and S. paradoxus currently share both vineyard and non-vineyard habitats in Slovenia and we discuss factors relevant to their global distribution and relative abundance.', u'We provide a method to record near-whole brain activity in behaving adult flies and extract signals from specific anatomical structures. We image pan-neuronal calcium or voltage sensors fluorescence at high speed with light field microscopy. We then apply computational methods to extract functional maps, and find that their characteristic shape match the anatomy of sub-neuropile regions and sometimes small population of neurons. Associated time series are also consistent with the literature.', u'Understanding the causes of gene expression variation is of major importance for many areas of biology. While cis-regulatory changes have long been suggested to be particularly important for adaptation, our understanding of what determines cis-regulatory variation remains limited in most species. Here, we have investigated the prevalence, selective importance, and genomic correlates of cis-regulatory variation in the outcrossing crucifer species Capsella grandiflora. We identify genes with cis-regulatory variation through analyses of allele-specific expression (ASE) in deep transcriptome sequencing data from flower buds and leaves, and use population genomic analyses of high-coverage whole genome resequencing data from both a range-wide sample and a natural population to quantify the impact of positive and purifying selection on these genes. Our results show that in C. grandiflora, cis-regulatory variation is pervasive, affecting an average of 35% of genes within individual plants. Genes harboring cis-regulatory variation are (1) under weaker purifying selection, (2) significantly more likely to harbor nearby transposable element (TE) insertions, and (3) undergo lower rates of adaptive substitutions in comparison to other genes. Using a linear model, we identified ASE as the strongest factor contributing to purifying selection when considered alongside several other commonly used contributing factors. In turn, the main genomic correlates of cis-regulatory variation are presence of nearby TE insertions and gene expression level; notably, the signal of relaxed positive and purifying selection on genes with ASE remains after controlling for expression level. Our results suggest that variation in the intensity of selection across the genome is a major determinant of the presence of intraspecific cis-regulatory variation in this outcrossing plant species.', u"Visualizing genomic data in chromosomal context can help detecting errors in data generation or analysis and can suggest new hypotheses to be tested. Here we report a new tool for displaying large and diverse genomic data in idiograms of one or multiple chromosomes. The package is implemented in R so that visualization can be easily integrated with its numerous packages for processing genomic data. It supports simultaneous visualization of multiples tracks of data, each of potentially different nature. Large genomic regions such as QTLs or synteny tracts may be shown along histograms of number of genes, genetic variants, or any other type of genomic element. Tracks can also contain values for continuous or categorical variables and the user can choose among points, points connected by lines, line segments, barplots or histograms for representing data. chromPlot reads data from tables in BED format which are imported in R using its builtin functions. The information necessary to draw chromosomes for mouse and human is included with the package. Chromosomes for other organisms are downloaded automatically from the Ensembl website or can be provided by the user. We present common use cases here, and a full tutorial is included as the packages's vignette.", u'Because of its clonal evolution a tumor rarely contains multiple genomic alterations in the same pathway, as disrupting the pathway by one gene often is sufficient to confer the complete fitness advantage. As a result mutated genes display patterns of mutual exclusivity across tumors. The identification of such patterns have been exploited to detect cancer drivers. The complex problem of searching for mutual exclusivity across individuals has previously been solved by filtering the input data upfront, analyzing only genes mutated in numerous samples. These stringent filtering criteria come at the expense of missing rarely mutated driver genes. To overcome this problem, we present SSA.ME, a network-based method to detect mutually exclusive genes across tumors that does not depend on stringent filtering. Analyzing the TCGA breast cancer dataset illustrates the added value of SSA.ME: despite not using mutational frequency based-prefiltering, well-known recurrently mutated drivers could still be highly prioritized. In addition, we prioritized several genes that displayed mutual exclusivity and pathway connectivity with well-known drivers, but that were rarely mutated. We expect the proposed framework to be applicable to other complex biological problems because of its capability to process large datasets in polynomial time and its intuitive implementation.', u'A symptom of the need for greater reproducibility in scientific practice is the "decline effect," the fact that the size of many experimental effects decline with subsequent study or fail to replicate entirely. A simple way to combat this problem is for scientists to more routinely use confidence intervals (CIs) in their work. CIs provide frequentist bounds on the true size of an effect and can reveal when a statistically significant effect is possibly too small to be reliable or when a large effect might have been missed due to insufficient statistical power. CIs are often lacking in psychophysiological reports, likely due to the large number of dependent variables, which complicates deriving and visualizing CIs. In this article, I explain the value of CIs and show how to compute them for analyses involving multiple variables in various ways that adjust the intervals for the greater uncertainty induced by multiple statistical comparisons. The methods are illustrated using a basic visual oddball event-related potential (ERP) dataset and freely available Matlab software.', u'The ability to perform remote, in situ sequencing and diagnostics has been a long-sought goal for point-of-care medicine and portable DNA/RNA measurements. This technological advancement extends to missions beyond Earth as well, both for crew health and astrobiology applications. However, most commercially available sequencing technologies are ill-suited for space flight for a variety of reasons, including excessive volume and mass, and insufficient ruggedization for spaceflight. Portable and lightweight nanopore-based sequencers, which analyze nucleic acids electrochemically, are inherently much better suited to spaceflight, and could potentially be incorporated into future missions with only minimal modification. As a first step toward evaluating the performance of nanopore sequencers in a microgravity environment, we tested the Oxford Nanopore Technologies MinIONTM in a parabolic flight simulator to examine the effect of reduced gravity on DNA sequencing. The instrument successfully generated three reads, averaging 2,371 bases. However, the median current was shifted across all reads and the error profiles changed compared with operation of the sequencer on the ground, indicating that distinct computational methods may be needed for such data. We evaluated existing methods and propose two new methods; the first new method is based on a wave-fingerprint method similar to that of the Shazam model for matching periodicity information in music, and the second is based on entropy signal mapping. These tools provide a unique opportunity for nucleic acid sequencing in reduced gravity environments. Finally, we discuss the lessons learned from the parabolic flight as they would apply to performing DNA sequencing with the MinIONTM aboard the International Space Station.', u'How does experience inform decisions? In episode sampling, decisions are guided by a few episodic memories of past choices. This process can yield choice patterns similar to model-free Reinforcement Learning (RL); however, samples can vary from trial to trial, causing decisions to vary. Here, we show that context retrieved during episode sampling can cause choice behavior to deviate sharply from the predictions of RL. Specifically, we show that, when a given memory is sampled, choices (in the present) are influenced by the properties of other decisions made in the same context as the sampled event. This effect is mediated by fMRI measures of context retrieval on each trial, suggesting a mechanism whereby cues trigger retrieval of context, which then triggers retrieval of other decisions from that context. This result establishes a new avenue by which experience can guide choice, and as such has broad implications for the study of decisions.', u'The distribution of diversity can vary considerably from clade to clade. Attempts to understand these patterns often employ state-dependent speciation and extinction models to determine whether the evolution of a particular novel trait has increased speciation rates and/or decreased their extinction rates. It is still unclear, however, whether these models are uncovering important drivers of diversification, or whether they are simply pointing to more complex patterns involving many unmeasured and co-distributed factors. Here we describe an extension to the popular state-dependent speciation and extinction models that specifically accounts for the presence of unmeasured factors that could impact diversification rates estimated for the states of any observed trait, addressing at least one major criticism of BiSSE methods. Specifically, our model, which we refer to as HiSSE (Hidden-State Speciation and Extinction), assumes that related to each observed state in the model are "hidden" states that exhibit potentially distinct diversification dynamics and transition rates than the observed states in isolation. We also demonstrate how our model can be used as character-independent diversification (CID) models that allow for a complex diversification process that is independent of the evolution of a character. Under rigorous simulation tests and when applied to empirical data, we find that HiSSE performs reasonably well, and can at least detect net diversification rate differences between observed and hidden states and detect when diversification rate differences do not correlate with the observed states. We discuss the remaining issues with state-dependent speciation and extinction models in general, and the important ways in which HiSSE provides a more nuanced understanding of trait-dependent diversification.', u"The effect of fluctuating environmental conditions (i.e. environmental stochasticity) on the evolution of virulence has been broadly overlooked, presumably due to a lack of connection between the fields of evolutionary epidemiology and insect ecology. Practitioners of the latter have known for a long time that stochastic environmental variations can impact the population dynamics of many insects, some of which are vectors of infectious diseases. Here we investigate whether environmental stochasticity affecting a vector's life history can have an indirect impact on the evolutionarily expected virulence of the parasite, using Chagas disease as an example. We model the evolution of virulence using the adaptive dynamics framework, showing that parasite virulence should decrease when the vector's dynamics randomly change in time. The decrease is even more pronounced when environmental variations are frequent and ample. This decrease in virulence can be viewed as a bet-hedging strategy: when a parasite is at a risk of not being transmitted (e.g. because vectors are scarce), its best option is to stay in the host longer - that is, to be less virulent. Lowering virulence is thus very similar to increasing iteroparity, a well-known risk-spreading strategy, and should be expected to evolve whenever parasite transmission varies randomly in time.", u'Analysis of high troughput biological data often involves the use of many software packages and in-house written code. For each analysis step there are multiple options of software tools available, each with its own capabilities, limitations and assumptions on the input and output data. The development of bioinformatics pipelines involves a great deal of experimentation with different tools and parameters, considering how each would fit to the big picture and the practical implications of their use. Organizing data analysis could prove challenging. In this work we present a set of methods and tools that aim to enable the user to experiment extensively, while keeping analyses reproducible and organized.  We present a framework based on simple principles that allow data analyses to be structured in a way that emphasizes reproducibility, organization and clarity, while being simple and intuitive so that adding and modifying analysis steps can be done naturally with little extra effort. The framework suppports version control of code, documentation and data, enabling collaboration between users.', u'The evolution of species habitat range is an important topic over a wide range of research fields. In higher organisms, habitat range evolution is generally associated with genetic events such as gene duplication. However, the specific factors that determine habitat variability remain unclear at higher levels of biological organization (e.g., biochemical networks). One widely accepted hypothesis developed from both theoretical and empirical analyses is that habitat variability promotes network modularity; however, this relationship has not yet been directly tested in higher organisms. Therefore, I investigated the relationship between habitat variability and metabolic network modularity using compound and enzymatic networks in flies and mammals. Contrary to expectation, there was no clear positive correlation between habitat variability and network modularity. As an exception, the network modularity increased with habitat variability in the enzymatic networks of flies. However, the observed association was likely an artifact, and the frequency of gene duplication appears to be the main factor contributing to network modularity. These findings raise the question of whether or not there is a general mechanism for habitat range expansion at a higher level (i.e., above the gene scale). This study suggests that the currently widely accepted hypothesis for habitat variability should be reconsidered.', u'All experimental assay data contains error, but the magnitude, type, and primary origin of this error is often not obvious. Here, we describe a simple set of assay modeling techniques based on the bootstrap principle that allow sources of error and bias to be simulated and propagated into assay results. We demonstrate how deceptively simple operations---such as the creation of a dilution series with a robotic liquid handler---can significantly amplify imprecision and even contribute substantially to bias. To illustrate these techniques, we review an example of how the choice of dispensing technology can impact assay measurements, and show how large contributions to discrepancies between assays can be easily understood and potentially corrected for. These simple modeling techniques---illustrated with an accompanying IPython notebook---can allow modelers to understand the expected error and bias in experimental datasets, and even help experimentalists design assays to more effectively reach accuracy and imprecision goals.', u'The molecular events leading to the development of the bat wing remain largely unknown, and are thought to be caused, in part, by changes in gene expression during limb development. These expression changes could be instigated by variations in gene regulatory enhancers. Here, we used a comparative genomics approach to identify regions that evolved rapidly in the bat ancestor but are highly conserved in other vertebrates. We discovered 166 bat accelerated regions (BARs) that overlap H3K27ac and p300 ChIP-seq peaks in developing mouse limbs. Using a mouse enhancer assay, we show that five Myotis lucifugus BARs drive gene expression in the developing mouse limb, with the majority showing differential enhancer activity compared to the mouse orthologous BAR sequences. These include BAR116, which is located telomeric to the HoxD cluster and had robust forelimb expression for the M. lucifugus sequence and no activity for the mouse sequence at embryonic day 12.5. Developing limb expression analysis of Hoxd10-Hoxd13 in Miniopterus natalensis bats showed a high-forelimb weak-hindlimb expression for Hoxd10-Hoxd11, similar to the expression trend observed for M. lucifugus BAR116 in mice, suggesting that it could be involved in the regulation of the bat HoxD complex. Combined, our results highlight novel regulatory regions that could be instrumental for the morphological differences leading to the development of the bat wing.', u'Changes in gene expression are thought to regulate the differentiation process intrinsically through complex epigenetic mechanisms. In fundamental terms, however, this assumed regulation refers only to the intricate propagation of changes in gene expression or else leads to logical inconsistencies. The evolution and self-regulatory dynamics of individuated multicellularity also lack a unified and falsifiable description. To fill this gap, I computationally analyzed publicly available high-throughput data of histone H3 post-translational modifications and mRNA abundance for different Homo sapiens, Mus musculus, and Drosophila melanogaster cell-type/developmental-periods samples. My analysis of genomic regions adjacent to transcription start sites generated a profile from pairwise partial correlations between histone modifications controlling for the respective mRNA levels for each cell-type/developmental-period dataset. I found that these profiles, while explicitly uncorrelated to transcript abundance by construction, associate strongly with cell differentiation states. This association is not expected if cell differentiation is, in effect, regulated by epigenetic mechanisms. Based on these results, I propose a falsifiable theory of individuated multicellularity, which relies on the synergistic coupling across the extracellular space of two stochastically independent "self-organizing" systems constraining histone modification states at the same sites. This theory describes how the multicellular individual\u2014understood as an intrinsic, higher-order constraint\u2014emerges from proliferating undifferentiated cells, and may explain the intrinsic regulation of gene transcriptional changes for cell differentiation and the evolution of individuated multicellular organisms.', u'We provide evidence that decisions are made by consulting memories for individual past experiences, and that this process can be biased in favor of past choices using incidental reminders. First, in a standard rewarded choice task, we show that a model that estimates value at decision-time using individual samples of past outcomes fits choices and decision-related neural activity better than a canonical incremental learning model. In a second experiment, we bias this sampling process by incidentally reminding participants of individual past decisions. The next decision after a\nreminder shows a strong influence of the action taken and value received on the reminded trial. These results provide new empirical support for a decision architecture that relies on samples of individual past choice episodes rather than incrementally averaged rewards in evaluating options, and has suggestive implications for the underlying cognitive and neural mechanisms.', u'The relatively recent development of high-throughput sequencing (HTS) techniques has revealed a wealth of novel sequences found in very low abundance: the rare biosphere. Today, most studies of diversity of microorganisms are carried out almost exclusively with HTS techniques. However, culturing seems indispensable for diversity studies especially if the aim is exploring the rare biosphere. We have carried out a deep (1 million sequences per sample) pyrosequencing analysis of two marine bacterial samples and isolated a culture collection from one of them. We have shown that the collectors curves of the pyrosequencing data were close to reaching an asymptote. We have estimated the total richness of the samples and the sequencing effort necessary to obtain the total estimated richness experimentally. Comparing the pyrosequencing data and the isolates sequences we have found that isolation retrieves some of the rarest taxa and that the composition of rare taxa follows an annual succession. We have shown that increasing the number of tags sequenced would slowly uncover the isolated bacteria. However, even if the whole bacterial diversity was found by increasing the sampling depth, culturing would still be essential for the study of marine bacterial communities, especially if the target is the rare biosphere.', u'Human migration and human isolation serve as the driving forces of modern human civilization. Recent migrations of long isolated populations have resulted in genetically admixed populations. The history of population admixture is generally complex; however, understanding the admixture process is critical to both evolutionary and medical studies. Here, we utilized admixture induced linkage disequilibrium (LD) to infer occurrence of continuous admixture events, which is common for most existing admixed populations. Unlike previous studies, we expanded the typical continuous admixture model to a more general admixture scenario with isolation after a certain duration of continuous gene flow. Based on the extended models, we developed a method based on weighted LD to infer the admixture history considering continuous and complex demographic process of gene flow between populations. We evaluated the performance of the method by computer simulation and applied our method to real data analysis of a few well-known admixed populations.', u'Unlike the autosomes, recombination between the X chromosome and Y chromosome often thought to be constrained to two small pseudoautosomal regions (PARs) at the tips of each sex chromosome. The PAR1 spans the first 2.7 Mb of the proximal arm of the human sex chromosomes, while the much smaller PAR2 encompasses the distal 320 kb of the long arm of each sex chromosome. In addition to the PAR1 and PAR2, there is a human-specific X-transposed region that was duplicated from the X to the Y. The X-transposed region is often not excluded from X-specific analyses, unlike the PARs, because it is not thought to routinely recombine. Genetic diversity is expected to be higher in recombining regions than in non-recombining regions because recombination reduces the effect of linked selection. In this study, we investigate patterns of genetic diversity in noncoding regions across the entire X chromosome of a global sample of 26 unrelated genetic females. We observe that genetic diversity in the PAR1 is significantly greater than the non-recombining regions (nonPARs). However, rather than an abrupt drop in diversity at the pseudoautosomal boundary, there is a gradual reduction in diversity from the recombining through the non-recombining region, suggesting that recombination between the human sex chromosomes spans across the currently defined pseudoautosomal boundary. In contrast, diversity in the PAR2 is not significantly elevated compared to the nonPAR, suggesting that recombination is not obligatory in the PAR2. Finally, diversity in the X-transposed region is higher than the surrounding nonPAR regions, providing evidence that recombination may occur with some frequency between the X and Y in the XTR.', u'Beta and gamma rhythms have been hypothesized to be involved in global and local coordination of neuronal activity, respectively. Here, we investigated how cells in rodent area S1BF are entrained by rhythmic fluctuations at various frequencies within the local area and in connected areas, and how this depends on behavioral state and cell type. We performed simultaneous extracellular field and unit recordings in four connected areas of the freely moving rat (S1BF, V1M, perirhinal cortex, CA1). S1BF spiking activity was strongly entrained by both beta and gamma S1BF oscillations, which were associated with deactivations and activations, respectively. We identified multiple classes of fast spiking and excitatory cells in S1BF, which showed prominent differences in rhythmic entrainment and in the extent to which phase locking was modulated by behavioral state. Using an additional dataset acquired by whole-cell recordings in head-fixed mice, these cell classes could be compared with identified phenotypes showing gamma rhythmicity in their membrane potential. We next examined how S1BF cells were entrained by rhythmic fluctuations in connected brain areas. Gamma-synchronization was detected in all four areas, however we did not detect significant  gamma coherence among these areas. Instead, we only found long-range coherence in the theta-beta range among these areas. In contrast to local S1BF synchronization, we found long-range S1BF-spike to CA1-LFP synchronization to be homogeneous across inhibitory and excitatory cell types. These findings suggest distinct, cell-type contributions of low and high-frequency synchronization to intra- and inter-areal neuronal interactions.', u'Population expansions trigger many biomedical and ecological transitions, from tumor growth to invasions of non-native species. Although population spreading often selects for more invasive phenotypes, we show that this outcome is far from inevitable. In cooperative populations, mutations reducing dispersal have a competitive advantage. Such mutations then steadily accumulate at the expansion front bringing invasion to a halt. Our findings are a rare example of evolution driving the population into an unfavorable state and could lead to new strategies to combat unwelcome invaders. In addition, we obtain an exact analytical expression for the fitness advantage of mutants with different dispersal rates.', u'Most spontaneous mutations affecting fitness are likely to be deleterious, but the strength of selection acting on them might be impacted by environmental stress. Such stress-dependent selection could expose hidden genetic variation, which in turn might increase the adaptive potential of stressed populations. On the other hand, this variation might represent a genetic load and thus lead to population extinction under stress. Previous studies to determine the link between stress and mutational effects on fitness, however, have produced inconsistent results. Here, we determined the net change in fitness in 29 genotypes of the green algae Chlamydomonas reinhardtii that accumulated mutations in the near absence of selection for approximately 1,000 generations across two stress gradients, increasing NaCl and decreasing phosphate. We found mutational effects to be magnified under extremely stressful conditions, but such effects were specific both to the type of stress as well as to the genetic background. The detection of stress-dependent fitness effects of mutations depended on accurately scaling relative fitness measures by generation times, thus offering an explanation for the inconsistencies among previous studies.', u'Along with the development of several large-scale methods such as mass spectrometry or micro arrays, genome wide models became not only a possibility but an obvious tool for theoretical biologists to integrate and analyse complex biological data. Nevertheless, incorporating the dynamics of photosynthesis remains one of the major challenges while reconstructing metabolic networks of plants and other photosynthetic organisms. In this review, we aim to provide arguments that small-scale models are still a suitable choice when it comes to discover organisational principles governing the design of biological systems. We give a brief overview of recent modelling efforts in understanding the interplay between rapid, photoprotective mechanisms and the redox balance within the thylakoid membrane, discussing the applicability of a reductionist approach in modelling self-regulation in plants, and outline possible directions for further research.', u'Structural connectivity among cortical areas provides the substrate for information exchange in the brain and is characterized by the presence or absence of connections between specific areas. What principles govern this cortical wiring diagram? Here, we investigate the relation of physical distance and cytoarchitecture with the connectional architecture of the mouse cortex. Moreover, we examine the relation between patterns of ipsilateral and contralateral connections. Our analysis reveals a mirrored and attenuated organization of contralateral connections when compared to ipsilateral connections. Both spatial proximity and cytoarchitectonic similarity of cortical areas are related to the presence or absence of connections. Notably, our analysis demonstrated that these factors conjointly relate better to cortico-cortical connectivity than each factor in isolation, and that the two factors contribute differently to ipsilateral and contralateral connectivity. Distance is more tightly related to the presence or absence of ipsilateral connections, but its contribution greatly diminishes for contralateral connections, while the contribution of cytoarchitectonic similarity remains stable. Our results, conjointly with similar findings in the cat and macaque cortex, suggest that a common set of principles underlies the macroscale wiring of mammalian brains.', u'Pyrogenic organic matter (PyOM) additions to soils can have large impacts on soil organic C (SOC) cycling. Because the soil microbial community drives SOC fluxes, understanding how PyOM additions affect soil microbes is essential to understanding how PyOM affects SOC. We studied SOC dynamics and surveyed soil microbial communities after OM additions in a field experiment. We produced and applied either 350\xb0C corn stover PyOM or an equivalent amount of dried corn stover to a Typic Fragiudept soil. Stover increased SOC-derived and total CO2 fluxes (up to 6x), and caused rapid and persistent changes in bacterial community composition over 82 days. In contrast, PyOM only temporarily increased total soil CO2 fluxes (up to 2x) and caused fewer changes in bacterial community composition. 70% of the OTUs that increased in response to PyOM additions also responded to stover additions. These OTUs likely thrive on easily-mineralizable C that is found both in stover and, to a lesser extent, in PyOM. In contrast, we also identified unique PyOM-responders, which may respond to substrates such as polyaromatic C. In particular, members of Gemmatimonadetes tended to increase in relative abundance in response to PyOM but not to fresh organic matter. We identify taxa to target for future investigations of the mechanistic underpinnings of ecological phenomena associated with PyOM additions to soil.', u'Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) are a heterogeneous group of cancers affecting multiple subsites, including oral cavity. Oral or anterior tongue tumors (OTSCC) are an aggressive group of squamous cell carcinomas, characterized by their early spread to lymph nodes and higher rate of regional failure compared to other oral cavity cancers. There is a rise in the incidence of oral tongue cancer among younger population (<50yrs); many of who lack the typical associated risk factors of alcohol and/or tobacco exposure. In order to carry out an ensemble learning and prediction method with multiple parameters classifying survival, we generated data, on somatic mutations in genes from exome sequencing, immediate upstream and downstream flanking nucleotides of the somatic mutations, DNA methylation, loss of heterozygosity (LOH), copy number variations (CNV), gene expression, significant pathways altered and Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) infection, from 50 OTSCC patients. Results of our analysis identified somatic mutations in NOTCH2 and/or TP53, and/or LOH in 11p to associate with better disease free survival in HPV positive patients (P = 0.0254) and not in HPV negative patients (P = 0.414). We validated the latter in patients without HPV infection from TCGA cohort (P = 0.369, N = 17 for TCGA_ OralTongue; P = 0.472, N = 67 for all TCGA_HNSCC patients). Integrated analysis, including pathways, linked survival with apoptosis and aberrant methylation in SLC38A8 (P = 0.0129).', u'Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have been successful in discovering replicable SNP-trait associations for many quantitative traits and common diseases in humans. Typically the effect sizes of SNP alleles are very small and this has led to large genome-wide association meta-analyses (GWAMA) to maximize statistical power. A trend towards ever-larger GWAMA is likely to continue, yet dealing with summary statistics from hundreds of cohorts increases logistical and quality control problems, including unknown sample overlap, and these can lead to both false positive and false negative findings. In this study we propose a new set of metrics and visualization tools for GWAMA, using summary statistics from cohort-level GWASs. We proposed a pair of methods in examining the concordance between demographic information and summary statistics. In method I, we use the population genetics  Fst statistic to verify the genetic origin of each cohort and their geographic location, and demonstrate using GWAMA data from the GIANT Consortium that geographic locations of cohorts can be recovered and outlier cohorts can be detected. In method II, we conduct principal component analysis based on reported allele frequencies, and is able to recover the ancestral information for each cohort. In addition, we propose a new statistic that uses the reported allelic effect sizes and their standard errors to identify significant sample overlap or heterogeneity between pairs of cohorts. Finally, to quantify unknown sample overlap across all pairs of cohorts we propose a method that uses randomly generated genetic predictors that does not require the sharing of individual-level genotype data and does not breach individual privacy.', u'Homeostasis is a running theme in biology. Often achieved through feedback regulation strategies, homeostasis allows living cells to control their internal environment as a means for surviving changing and unfavourable environments. While many endogenous homeostatic motifs have been studied in living cells, some other motifs may remain under-explored or even undiscovered. At the same time, known regulatory motifs have been mostly analyzed at the deterministic level, and the effect of noise on their regulatory function has received low attention. Here we lay the foundation for a regulation theory at the molecular level that explicitly takes into account the noisy nature of biochemical reactions and provides novel tools for the analysis and design of robust homeostatic circuits. Using these ideas, we propose a new regulation motif, which we refer to as antithetic integral feedback, and demonstrate its effectiveness as a strategy for generically regulating a wide class of reaction networks. By combining tools from probability and control theory, we show that the proposed motif preserves the stability of the overall network, steers the population of any regulated species to a desired set point, and achieves robust perfect adaptation -- all with low prior knowledge of reaction rates. Moreover, our proposed regulatory motif can be implemented using a very small number of molecules and hence has a negligible metabolic load. Strikingly, the regulatory motif exploits stochastic noise, leading to enhanced regulation in scenarios where noise-free implementations result in dysregulation. Finally, we discuss the possible manifestation of the proposed antithetic integral feedback motif in endogenous biological circuits and its realization in synthetic circuits.', u'Differences among clades in their diversification patterns result from a combination of extrinsic and intrinsic factors. In this study I examined the role of intrinsic factors in the morphological diversification of ruminants in general, and in the differences between bovids and cervids in particular. Using skull morphology, which embodies many of the adaptations that distinguish bovids and cervids, I examined 132 of the 200 extant ruminant species. As a proxy for intrinsic constraints I quantified different aspects of the phenotypic covariation structure within species, and compared them with the among-species divergence patterns, using phylogenetic comparative methods. My results show that for most species, divergence is well aligned with their phenotypic covariance matrix, and those that are better aligned have diverged further away from their ancestor. Bovids have dispersed into a wider range of directions in morphospace than cervids, and their overall disparity is higher. This difference is best explained by the lower eccentricity of bovids within-species covariance matrices. These results are consistent with the role of intrinsic constraints in determining amount, range, and direction of dispersion, and demonstrate that intrinsic constraints can influence macroevolutionary patterns even as the covariance structure evolves.', u'Different types of phenotypic traits consistently exhibit different levels of genetic variation in natural populations.  There are two potential explanations: either mutation produces genetic variation at different rates, or natural selection removes or promotes genetic variation at different rates.  Whether mutation or selection is of greater general importance is a longstanding unresolved question in evolutionary genetics.  Where the input of genetic variation by mutation differs between traits, it is usually uncertain whether the difference is the result of different mutational effects ("mutational robustness") or different numbers of underlying loci ("mutational target"), although conventional wisdom favors the latter.  We report mutational variances (VM) for 19 traits related to the first mitotic cell division in C. elegans, and compare them to the standing genetic variances (VG) for the same suite of traits in a worldwide collection C. elegans.  Two robust conclusions emerge.  First, the mutational process is highly repeatable: the correlation between VM in two independent sets of mutation accumulation lines is ~0.9.  Second, VM for a trait is a very good predictor of VG for that trait: the correlation between VM and VG is ~0.9.  This result is predicted for a population at mutation-selection balance; it is not predicted if balancing selection plays a primary role in maintaining genetic variation. Goodness-of-fit of the data to two simple models of mutation suggest that differences in mutational effects may be a more important cause of differences in VM between traits than differences in the size of the mutational target.', u'The estimation of vital rates and life-history traits and how they vary with habitat and population factors are central for our understanding of population dynamics, risk of extinction, and evolution of traits in natural populations. We used long-term tag-recapture data and novel statistical and modeling techniques to investigate how population and environmental factors determine variation in vital rates and population dynamics in the population of brown trout Salmo trutta L. of Upper Volaja (Western Slovenia). Alien brown trout were introduced in the stream in the 1920s and the population has been self-sustaining since then. The population of Upper Volaja has been the subject of a monitoring program that started in 2004 and is currently on going. Upper Volaja is also a sink, receiving individuals from a source population living above an impassable waterfall. We estimated the contribution of the source population on the sink population and tested the effects of temperature, population density, and early environment on variation in vital rates and life-history traits among more than 4,000 individually tagged brown trout that have been sampled since 2004. We found that fish migrating from the source population (>30% of population size) help maintain high population densities despite poor recruitment. Neither variation in density nor in temperature explained variation in survival or growth; the best model of survival for individuals older than juveniles included cohort and time effects. Fast growth of older cohorts and higher population densities in 2004-2006 suggest very low densities in early 2000s, probably due to a flood event that caused a strong reduction in population size. Higher population densities, smaller variation in growth and weaker maintenance of size hierarchies with respect to endemic marble trout suggest that exploitative competition for food is at work in brown trout and interference competition for space is operating in marble trout.', u'Eco-evolutionary dynamics are now recognized to be highly relevant for population and community dynamics. However, the impact of evolutionary dynamics on spatial patterns, such as the occurrence of classical metapopulation dynamics, is less well appreciated. Here, we analyse the evolutionary consequences of spatial network connectivity and topology for dispersal strategies and quantify the eco-evolutionary feedback in terms of altered classical metapopulation dynamics. We find that network properties, such as topology and connectivity, lead to predictable spatio-temporal correlations in fitness expectations. These spatio-temporally stable fitness patterns heavily impact evolutionarily stable dispersal strategies and lead to eco-evolutionary feedbacks on landscape level metrics, such as the number of occupied patches, the number of extinctions and recolonizations as well as metapopulation extinction risk and genetic structure. Our model predicts that classical metapopulation dynamics are more likely to occur in dendritic networks, and especially in riverine systems, compared to other types of landscape configurations. As it remains debated whether classical metapopulation dynamics are likely to occur in nature at all, our work provides an important conceptual advance for understanding the occurrence of classical metapopulation dynamics which has implications for conservation and management of spatially structured populations.', u'Summary: High-throughput sequencing technologies such as ChIP-seq have deepened our understanding in many biological processes. De novo motif search is one of the key downstream computational analysis following the ChIP-seq experiments and several algorithms have been proposed for this purpose. However, most web-based systems do not perform independent filtering or enrichment analyses to ensure the quality of the discovered motifs. Here, we developed a web server Factorbook Motif Pipeline based on an algorithm used in analyzing ENCODE consortium ChIP-seq datasets. It performs comprehensive analysis on the set of peaks detected from a ChIP-seq experiments: (i) de novo motif discovery; (ii) independent composition and bias analyses and (iii) matching to the annotated motifs. The statistical tests employed in our pipeline provide a reliable measure of confidence as to how significant are the motifs reported in the discovery step.\nAvailability: Factorbook Motif Pipeline source code is accessible through the following URL. https://github.com/joshuabhk/factorbook-motif-pipeline', u"The incorporation of ecological processes into models of trait evolution is important for understanding past drivers of evolutionary change. Species interactions have long been thought to be key drivers of trait evolution. However, models for comparative data that account for interactions between species are lacking. One of the challenges is that such models are intractable and difficult to express analytically. Here we present phylogenetic models of trait evolution that includes interspecific competition amongst species. Competition is modelled as a tendency of sympatric species to evolve towards distinct niches, producing trait overdispersion and high phylogenetic signal. The model predicts elevated trait variance across species and a slowdown in evolutionary rate both across the clade and within each branch. The model also predicts a reduction in correlation between otherwise correlated traits. We used an Approximate Bayesian Computation (ABC) approach to estimate model parameters. We tested the power of the model to detect deviations from Brownian trait evolution using simulations, finding reasonable power to detect competition in sufficiently large (20+ species) trees. We applied the model to examine the evolution of bill morphology of Darwin's finches, and found evidence that competition affects the evolution of bill length.", u'The fossil record is a rich source of information about biological diversity in the past. However, the fossil record is not only incomplete but has inherent biases due to geological, physical, chemical and biological factors. Our knowledge of past life is also biased because of differences in academic and amateur interests and sampling efforts. As a result, not all individuals or species that lived in the past are equally likely to be discovered at any point in time or space. To reconstruct temporal dynamics of diversity using the fossil record, biased sampling must be explicitly taken into account. Here, we introduce an approach that utilizes the variation in the number of times each species is observed in the fossil record to estimate both sampling bias and true richness. We term our technique TRiPS (True Richness estimated using a Poisson Sampling model) and explore its robustness to violation of its assumptions via simulations. We then venture to estimate sampling bias and absolute species richness of dinosaurs in the geological stages of the Mesozoic. Using TRiPS, we estimate that 1936 (1543-2468) species of dinosaurs roamed the Earth during the Mesozoic. We also present improved estimates of species richness trajectories of the three major dinosaur clades; the sauropodomorphs, ornithischians and theropods, casting doubt on the Jurassic-Cretaceous extinction event and demonstrating that all dinosaur groups are subject to considerable sampling bias throughout the Mesozoic.', u'Background: Current cell-free DNA (cfDNA) assessment of fetal chromosomes does not analyze and report on all chromosomes.  Hence, a significant proportion of fetal chromosomal abnormalities are not detectable by current non-invasive methods. Here we report the clinical validation of a novel NIPT designed to detect genome-wide gains and losses of chromosomal material \u22657 Mb and losses associated with specific deletions <7 Mb.\nObjective: The objective of this study is to provide a clinical validation of the sensitivity and specificity of a novel NIPT for detection of genome-wide abnormalities.\nStudy Design: This retrospective, blinded study included maternal plasma collected from 1222 study subjects with pregnancies at increased risk for fetal chromosomal abnormalities that were assessed for trisomy 21 (T21), trisomy 18 (T18), trisomy 13 (T13), sex chromosome aneuploidies (SCAs), fetal sex, genome-wide copy number variants (CNVs) 7 Mb and larger, and select deletions smaller than 7 Mb. Performance was assessed by comparing test results with findings from G-band karyotyping, microarray data, or high coverage sequencing.\nResults: Clinical sensitivity within this study was determined to be 100% for T21, T18, T13, and SCAs, and 97.7% for genome-wide CNVs. Clinical specificity within this study was determined to be 100% for T21, T18, and T13, and 99.9% for SCAs and CNVs. Fetal sex classification had an accuracy of 99.6%.\nConclusion: This study has demonstrated that genome-wide non-invasive prenatal testing (NIPT) for fetal chromosomal abnormalities can provide high resolution, sensitive, and specific detection of a wide range of sub-chromosomal and whole chromosomal abnormalities that were previously only detectable by invasive karyotype analysis. In some instances, this NIPT also provided additional clarification about the origin of genetic material that had not been identified by invasive karyotype analysis.', u'A long-standing problem is how memories can be stored for very long times despite the volatility of the underlying neural substrate, most notably the high turnover of dendritic spines and synapses. To address this problem, here we are using a generic and simple probabilistic model for the creation and removal of synapses. We show that information can be stored for several months when utilizing the intrinsic dynamics of multi-synapse connections. In such systems, single synapses can still show high turnover, which enables fast learning of new information, but this will not perturb prior stored information (slow forgetting), which is represented by the compound state of the connections. The model matches the time course of recent experimental spine data during learning and memory in mice supporting the assumption of multi-synapse connections as the basis for long-term storage.', u'RNA-Seq and gene expression microarrays provide comprehensive profiles of gene activity, but lack of reproducibility has hindered their application. A key challenge in the data analysis is the normalization of gene expression levels, which is currently performed following an implicit assumption that most genes are not differentially expressed. Here, we present a mathematical approach to normalization that makes no assumption of this sort. We have found that variation in gene expression is much greater than currently believed, and that it can be measured with available technologies. Our results also explain, at least partially, the problems encountered in transcriptomics studies. We expect this improvement in detection to help efforts to realize the full potential of gene expression profiling, especially in analyses of cellular processes involving complex modulations of gene expression.', u'Analyzing functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) pattern similarity is becoming increasingly popular because it allows one to relate distributed patterns of voxel activity to continuous perceptual and cognitive states of the human brain. Here we show that fMRI pattern similarity estimates are severely affected by temporal pattern drifts in fMRI data - even after voxel-wise detrending. For this particular dataset, the drift effect obscures orientation information as measured by fMRI pattern dissimilarities. We demonstrate that orientation information can be recovered using three different methods: 1. Regressing out the drift component through linear modeling; 2. Computing representational distances between conditions measured in independent imaging runs; 3. Crossvalidation of pattern distance estimates. One possible source of temporal pattern drift could be random walk like fluctuations - physiological or scanner related - occurring within single voxel timecourses. This explanation is consistent with voxel-wise detrending not alleviating pattern drift effects. In addition, this would explain why cross-validated pattern distances are robust to temporal drift because a random walk process is expected to give rise to non-replicable drift directions. Given these findings, we recommend that future fMRI studies take pattern drift into account when analyzing pattern similarity as this can greatly enhance the sensitivity to experimental effects of interest.', u'Cell growth and division are stochastic processes that exhibit significant amount of cell-to-cell variation and randomness. In order to connect single cell division dynamics with overall cell population, stochastic population models are needed. We summarize the basic concepts, computational approaches and discuss simple applications of this modeling approach to understanding cancer cell population growth as well as population fluctuations in experiments.', u"In finite populations, mutation limitation and genetic drift can hinder evolutionary diversification. We consider the evolution of a quantitative trait in an asexual population whose size can vary and depends explicitly on the trait. Previous work showed that evolutionary branching is certain (``deterministic branching'') above a threshold population size, but uncertain (``stochastic branching'') below it. Using the stationary distribution of the population's trait variance, we identify three qualitatively different sub-domains of ``stochastic branching'' and illustrate our results using a model of social evolution. We find that in very small populations, branching will almost never be observed; in intermediate populations, branching is intermittent, arising and disappearing over time; in larger populations, finally, branching is expected to occur and persist for substantial periods of time. Our study provides a clearer picture of the ecological conditions that facilitate the appearance and persistence of novel evolutionary lineages in the face of genetic drift.", u'The sulfurea (sulf) allele is a silent epigenetic variant of a tomato gene (Solanum lycopersicum) affecting pigment production. It is homozygous lethal but, in a heterozygote sulf /+, the wild type allele undergoes silencing so that the plants exhibit chlorotic sectors. This transfer of the silenced state between alleles resembles the process of paramutation that is best characterised in maize. To understand the mechanism of paramutation we mapped SULF to the ortholog SLTAB2 of an Arabidopsis gene that, consistent with the pigment de\ufb01ciency, is involved in the translation of photosystem I. Paramutation of SLTAB2 is linked to an increase in DNA methylation and production of small interfering RNAs at its promoter. Virus-induced gene silencing of SLTAB2 phenocopies sulf consistent with the possibility that siRNAs mediate the paramutation of SULFUREA. Unlike the maize systems the paramutagenicity of sulf is not, however, associated with repeated sequences at the region of siRNA production or DNA methylation.', u'Epigenetic communication through histone and cytosine modifications is essential for gene regulation and cell identity. Here, we propose a framework that is based on a chromatin communication model to get insight on the function of epigenetic modifications in ESCs. The epigenetic communication network was inferred from genome-wide location data plus extensive manual annotation. Notably, we found that 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC) is the most influential hub of this network, connecting DNA demethylation to nucleosome remodeling complexes and to key transcription factors of pluripotency. Moreover, an evolutionary analysis revealed a central role of 5hmC in the co-evolution of chromatin-related proteins. Further analysis of regions where 5hmC colocalizes with specific interactors shows that each interaction points to chromatin remodelling, stemness, differentiation or metabolism. Our results highlight the importance of cytosine modifications in the epigenetic communication of ESCs.', u'Cancer prediction is of great importance and significance and it is crucial to provide researchers and scientists with novel, accurate and robust computational tools for this issue. Recent technologies such as Microarray and Next Generation Sequencing have paved the way for computational methods and techniques to play critical roles in this regard. Many important problems in cell biology require the dense nonlinear interactions between functional modules to be considered. The importance of computer simulation in understanding cellular processes is now widely accepted, and a variety of simulation algorithms useful for studying certain subsystems have been designed. In this article, a Sparse Compact Incremental Learning Machine (SCILM) is proposed for cancer classification problem on microarray gene expression data which take advantage of Correntropy cost that makes it robust against diverse noises and outliers. Moreover, since SCILM uses l1-norm of the weights, it has sparseness which can be applied for gene selection purposes as well.  Finally, due to compact structure, the proposed method is capable of performing classification tasks in all of the cases with only one neuron in its hidden layer. The experimental analysis is  performed on 26 well known microarray datasets regarding diverse kinds of cancers and the results show that the proposed method not only achieved significantly high accuracy but also because of its sparseness, final connectivity weights determined the value and effectivity of each gene regarding the corresponding cancer.', u'Adaptation in diploids is predicted to proceed via mutations that are at least partially dominant in fitness. Recently we argued that many adaptive mutations might also be commonly overdominant in fitness. Natural (directional) selection acting on overdominant mutations should drive them into the population but then, instead of bringing them to fixation, should maintain them as balanced polymorphisms via heterozygote advantage. If true, this would make adaptive evolution in sexual diploids differ drastically from that of haploids. Unfortunately, the validity of this prediction has not yet been tested experimentally. Here we performed 4 replicate evolutionary experiments with diploid yeast populations (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) growing in glucose-limited continuous cultures. We sequenced 24 evolved clones and identified initial adaptive mutations in all four chemostats. The first adaptive mutations in all four chemostats were three CNVs, all of which proved to be overdominant in fitness. The fact that fitness overdominant mutations were always the first step in independent adaptive walks strongly supports the prediction that heterozygote advantage can arise as a common outcome of directional selection in diploids and demonstrates that overdominance of de novo adaptive mutations in diploids is not rare.', u'Lamarckian inheritance has been largely discredited until the recent discovery of transgenerational epigenetic inheritance. However, transgenerational epigenetic inheritance is still under debate for unable to rule out DNA sequence changes as the underlying cause for heritability. Here, through profiling of the sperm methylomes and genomes of two recently diverged rat subspecies, we analyzed the relationship between epigenetic variation and DNA variation, and their relative contribution to evolution of species. We found that only epigenetic markers located in differentially methylated regions (DMRs) between subspecies, but not within subspecies, can be stably and effectively passed through generations. DMRs in response to both random and stable environmental difference show increased nucleotide diversity, and we demonstrated that it is variance of methylation level but not deamination caused by methylation driving increasing of nucleotide diversity in DMRs, indicating strong relationship between environment-associated changes of chromatin accessibility and increased nucleotide diversity. Further, we detected that accelerated fixation of DNA variants occur only in inter-subspecies DMRs in response to stable environmental difference but not intra-subspecies DMRs in response to random environmental difference or non-DMRs, indicating that this process is possibly driven by environment-associated fixation of divergent methylation status. Our results thus establish a bridge between Lamarckian inheritance and Darwinian selection.', u'Cellular senescence has been viewed as an irreversible cell cycle arrest that acts to prevent cancer. Recent studies discovered widespread shortening of 3\u2032 untranslated regions (3\u2032 UTRs) by alternative cleavage and polyadenylation (APA) in cancer cells. However, the role of APA in the process of cellular senescence remains elusive. We thus applied our published PA-seq method to investigate APA regulation in different passages of mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) and aortic vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) from rats of different ages. We found that genes in senescent cells tended to use distal poly(A) sites (pAs). An independent RNA-seq analysis gave rise to the same conclusion. Interestingly, the level of expression of genes preferred to use distal pAs in senescent MFEs and VSMCs tended to decrease. More importantly, genes that preferred to use distal pAs in senescent MFEs and VSMCs were enriched in common senescence-related pathways such as ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis and cell cycle. Further, the longer 3\u2032 UTRs of the genes that tended to use distal pAs introduced more conserved binding sites of senescence-related microRNAs (miRNAs) and RNA binding proteins (RBPs). Noteworthy, the expression level of core factors involved in cleavage and the polyadenylation tended to decrease, while those factors showed opposite trend in cancer cells. In summary, we showed, for the first time, that APA is a hidden layer of post-transcriptional gene expression regulation involved in cellular senescence.', u'The National Institutes of Health (NIH) is the major source of federal funding for biomedical research in the United States. Analysis of past and current NIH funding can illustrate funding trends and identify productive research topics, but these analyses are conducted *ad hoc* by the institutes themselves and only provide a small glimpse of the available data. The NIH provides free access to funding data via NIH EXPORTER, but no tools have been developed to enable analysis of this data. We developed the `nihexporter` R package, which provides access to NIH EXPORTER (http://exporter.nih.gov/) data. We used the package to develop several analysis vignettes that show funding trends across NIH institutes over 15 years and highlight differences in how institutes change their funding profiles. Investigators and institutions can use the package to perform self-studies of their own NIH funding.', u'The recent widespread emergence of carbapenem resistance in Enterobacteriaceae is a major public health concern, as carbapenems are a therapy of last resort in this family of common bacterial pathogens. Resistance genes can mobilize via various mechanisms including conjugation and transposition, however the importance of this mobility in short-term evolution, such as within nosocomial outbreaks, is currently unknown. Using a combination of short- and long-read whole genome sequencing of 281 blaKPC-positive Enterobacteriaceae isolated from a single hospital over five years, we demonstrate rapid dissemination of this carbapenem resistance gene to multiple species, strains, and plasmids. Mobility of blaKPC occurs at multiple nested genetic levels, with transmission of blaKPC strains between individuals, frequent transfer of blaKPC plasmids between strains/species, and frequent transposition of the blaKPC transposon Tn4401 between plasmids. We also identify a common insertion site for Tn4401 within various Tn2-like elements, suggesting that homologous recombination between Tn2-like elements has enhanced the spread of Tn4401 between different plasmid vectors. Furthermore, while short-read sequencing has known limitations for plasmid assembly, various studies have attempted to overcome this with the use of reference-based methods. We also demonstrate that as a consequence of the genetic mobility observed herein, plasmid structures can be extremely dynamic, and therefore these reference-based methods, as well as traditional partial typing methods, can produce very misleading conclusions. Overall, our findings demonstrate that non-clonal resistance gene dissemination can be extremely rapid, presenting significant challenges for public health surveillance and achieving effective control of antibiotic resistance.', u'Summary: TopHat is a popular spliced junction mapper for RNA sequencing data, and writes files in the BAM format - the binary version of the Sequence Alignment/Map (SAM) format. BAM is the standard exchange format for aligned sequencing reads, thus correct format implementation is paramount for software interoperability and correct analysis.\nHowever, TopHat writes its unmapped reads in a way that is not compatible with other software that implements the SAM/BAM format. We have developed TopHat-Recondition, a post-processor for TopHat unmapped reads that restores read information in the proper format. TopHat-Recondition thus enables downstream software to process the plethora of BAM files written by TopHat.\n\nAvailability and implementation: TopHat-Recondition is implemented in Python using the Pysam library and is freely available under a 2-clause BSD license on GitHub: https://github.com/cbrueffer/tophat-recondition.\n\nContact: christian.brueffer@med.lu.se, lao.saal@med.lu.se', u'Temporally precise motor sequences underlie many motor skills and innate actions, yet the flexibility with which the timing of such stereotyped behaviors can be modified is not known. To probe this, we induced adaptive changes to the temporal structure of birdsong. We find that the duration of specific song segments can be modified without affecting the timing in other parts of the song. We derive formal prescriptions for how neural networks can implement such flexible motor timing. We find that randomly connected recurrent networks, a common approximation for how neocortex is wired, do not generally conform to these, though certain implementations can approximate them. We show that feedforward networks, by virtue of their one-to-one mapping between network activity and time, are better suited. Our study provides general prescriptions for how pattern generator networks can implement flexible motor timing, an important aspect of many motor skills, including birdsong and human speech.', u'Ecosystem service research has gained attraction, and the topic is also high on the policy agenda. Projects such as TEEB have generalized results of individual case studies to provide guidelines for policy makers and stakeholders. Seppelt et al. (2011) raised critical questions about four facets that characterize the holistic ideal of ecosystem services research: (i) biophysical realism of ecosystem data and models; (ii) consideration of trade-offs between ecosystem services; (iii) recognition of off-site effects; and (iv) comprehensive but shrewd involvement of stakeholders within assessment studies. An extended and updated analysis of ecosystem service case studies showed that the majority of these facets were still not addressed by the majority of case studies. Whilst most indicators did not improve within the span analyzed (1996-2013), we found a tendency for an increasing geographical spread of the case studies. Moreover, we incorporated an additional facet, namely the relevance and usability of case study results for the operationalization of the ecosystem service concept. Only a minority of studies addressed this facet sufficiently with no significant trend for improvement over time.', u'Sex specific pheromones are known to play an important role in butterfly courtship, and may influence both individual reproductive success and reproductive isolation between species.  Extensive ecological, behavioural and genetic studies of Heliconius butterflies have made a substantial contribution to our understanding of speciation. However, although long suspected to play an important role, chemical signals have received relatively little attention in this genus. Here, we combine morphological, chemical and behavioural analyses of a male pheromone in the neotropical butterfly Heliconius melpomene. First we identify specialized brush-like scales that are putative androconia, and lie within the shiny grey region found on the hindwing of males. We then describe six putative male sex pheromone compounds, which are largely confined to the androconial region of the hindwing of mature males, but not immature males or females. Finally, behavioural assays reveal subtle, but detectable, differences in female response to models scented with hindwing androconial extracts of mature conspecific males as compared to unscented controls. Collectively, the results describe structures involved in release of the pheromone and a list of potential male sex pheromone compounds triggering a behavioural response in females.', u'Developing neuronal networks display spontaneous rhythmic bursts of action potentials that are necessary for circuit organization and tuning. While spontaneous activity has been shown to instruct map formation in sensory circuits, it is  unknown whether it plays a role in the organization of motor networks that produce rhythmic output. Using computational modeling we investigate how recurrent networks of excitatory and inhibitory neuronal populations assemble to produce robust patterns of unidirectional and precisely-timed propagating activity during organism locomotion. One example is provided by the motor network in Drosophila larvae, which generates propagating peristaltic waves of muscle contractions during crawling. We examine two activity-dependent models which tune weak network connectivity based on spontaneous activity patterns: a Hebbian model, where coincident activity in neighboring populations strengthens connections between them; and a homeostatic model, where connections are homeostatically regulated to maintain a constant level of excitatory activity based on spontaneous input. The homeostatic model tunes network connectivity to generate robust activity patterns with the appropriate timing relationships between neighboring populations. These timing relationships can be modulated by the properties of spontaneous activity suggesting its instructive role for generating functional variability in network output. In contrast, the Hebbian model fails to produce the tight timing relationships between neighboring populations required for unidirectional activity propagation, even when additional assumptions are imposed to constrain synaptic growth.  These results argue that homeostatic mechanisms are more likely than Hebbian mechanisms to tune weak connectivity based on local activity patterns in a recurrent network for rhythm generation and propagation.', u'We have developed an algorithm for genetic analysis of complex traits using genome-wide SNPs in a linear mixed model framework. Compared to current standard REML software based on the mixed model equation, our method could be more than 1000 times faster. The advantage is largest when there is only a single genetic covariance structure. The method is particularly useful for multivariate analysis, including multi-trait models and random regression models for studying reaction norms. We applied our proposed method to publicly available mice and human data and discuss advantages and limitations.', u'The catalytic site of most enzymes can essentially deal with only one substrate. In contrast, the ribosome is capable of polymerizing at a similar rate at least 20 different kinds of amino acids from aminoacyl-tRNA carriers while using just one catalytic site, the peptidyl-transferase center (PTC). An induced-fit mechanism has been uncovered in the PTC, but a possible connection between this mechanism and the uniform handling of the substrates has not been investigated. We present an analysis of published ribosome structures supporting the hypothesis that the induced-fit eliminates unreactive rotamers predominantly populated for some A-site aminoacyl esters before induction. We show that this hypothesis is fully consistent with the wealth of kinetic data obtained with these substrates. Our analysis reveals that induction constrains the amino acids into a reactive conformation in a side-chain independent manner. It allows us to highlight the rationale of the PTC structural organization, which confers to the ribosome the very unusual ability to handle large as well as small substrates.', u'We present iCOBRA, a flexible general-purpose web-based application and accompanying R package to evaluate, compare and visualize the performance of methods for estimation or classification when ground truth is available. iCOBRA is interactive, can be run locally or remotely and generates customizable, publication-ready graphics. To facilitate open, reproducible and standardized method comparisons, expanding as new innovations are made, we encourage the community to provide benchmark results in a standard format.', u'Most disease associated genetic risk factors are non-coding, making it challenging to design experiments to understand their functional consequences. Identification of expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) has been a powerful approach to infer downstream effects of disease variants but the large majority remains unexplained.. The analysis of DNA methylation, a key component of the epigenome, offers highly complementary data on the regulatory potential of genomic regions. However, a large-scale, combined analysis of methylome and transcriptome data to infer downstream effects of disease variants is lacking. Here, we show that disease variants have wide-spread effects on DNA methylation in trans that likely reflect the downstream effects on binding sites of cis-regulated transcription factors. Using data on 3,841 Dutch samples, we detected 272,037 independent cis-meQTLs (FDR < 0.05) and identified 1,907 trait-associated SNPs that affect methylation levels of 10,141 different CpG sites in trans (FDR < 0.05), an eight-fold increase in the number of downstream effects that was known from trans-eQTL studies. Trans-meQTL CpG sites are enriched for active regulatory regions, being correlated with gene expression and overlap with Hi-C determined interchromosomal contacts. We detected many trans-meQTL SNPs that affect expression levels of nearby transcription factors (including NFKB1, CTCF and NKX2-3), while the corresponding trans-meQTL CpG sites frequently coincide with its respective binding site. Trans-meQTL mapping therefore provides a strategy for identifying and better understanding downstream functional effects of many disease-associated variants.', u'It is well known that single-gene circuits with negative feedback loop can lead \nto oscillatory gene expression when they operate with time delay. In order \nto generate these oscillations many processes can contribute to properly timing \nsuch delay. Here we show that the time delay coming from the transitions between \ninternal states of the cis-regulatory system (CRS) can drive sustained \noscillations in an auto-repressive single-gene circuit operating in a small volume \nlike a cell. We found that the cooperative binding of repressor molecules is \nnot mandatory for a oscillatory behavior if there are enough binding sites in \nthe CRS. These oscillations depend on an adequate balance between the CRS kinetic, \nand the synthesis/degradation rates of repressor molecules. This finding suggest \nthat the multi-site CRS architecture plays a key role for oscillatory behavior \nof gene expression.', u'Understanding the driving forces and molecular processes underlying dioecy and sex chromosome evolution, leading from hermaphroditism to the occurrence of male and female individuals, is of considerable interest in fundamental and applied research. The genus Phoenix, belonging to the family Arecaceae, consists of only dioecious species. Phylogenetic data suggests that the genus Phoenix diverged from a hermaphroditic ancestor shared with its closest relatives. Here we investigated the evolution of suppressed recombination within the genus Phoenix as a whole by extending the analysis of P. dactylifera sex-related loci to eight other species within the genus. We also performed a phylogenetic analysis of a date palm sex-linked PdMYB1 gene in these species. We found that X and Y sex-linked alleles clustered in a species-independent fashion. Our data show that sex chromosomes evolved before the diversification of the extant dioecious species. Furthermore, the distribution of Y haplotypes revealed two male ancestral paternal lineages which may have emerged prior to speciation.', u'Inferring and understanding changes in effective population size over time is a major challenge for population genetics. Here we investigate some theoretical properties of random mating populations with varying size over time. In particular, we present an exact method to compute the population size as a function of time using the distributions of coalescent-times of samples of any size. This result reduces the problem of population size inference to a problem of estimating coalescent-time distributions. Using tree inference algorithms and genetic data, we can investigate the effects of a range of conditions associated with real data, for instance finite number of loci, sample size, mutation rate and presence of cryptic recombination. We show that our method requires at least a modest number of loci (10,000 or more) and that increasing the sample size from 2 to 10 greatly improves the inference whereas further increase in sample size only results in a modest improvement, even under as scenario of exponential growth. We also show that small amounts of recombination can lead to biased population size reconstruction when unaccounted for. The approach can handle large sample sizes and the computations are fast. We apply our method on human genomes from 4 populations and reconstruct population size profiles that are coherent with previous knowledge, including the Out-of-Africa bottleneck. Additionally, a potential difference in population size between African and non-African populations as early as 400 thousand years ago is uncovered.', u'Under extreme water deficit, endolithic (inside rock) microbial ecosystems are considered environmental refuges for life in cold and hot deserts, yet their diversity and functional adaptations remain vastly unexplored. The metagenomic analyses of the communities from two rock substrates, calcite and ignimbrite, revealed that they were dominated by Cyanobacteria, Actinobacteria, and Chloroflexi. The relative distribution of major phyla was significantly different between the two substrates and biodiversity estimates, from 16S rRNA gene sequences and from the metagenome data, all pointed to a higher taxonomic diversity in the calcite community. While both endolithic communities showed adaptations to extreme aridity and to the rock habitat, their functional capabilities revealed significant differences. ABC transporters and pathways for osmoregulation were more diverse in the calcite chasmoendolithic community. In contrast, the ignimbrite cryptoendolithic community was enriched in pathways for secondary metabolites, such as non-ribosomal peptides (NRPS) and polyketides (PKS). Assemblies of the metagenome data produced population genomes for the major phyla found in both communities and revealed a greater diversity of Cyanobacteria population genomes for the calcite substrate. Draft genomes of the dominant Cyanobacteria in each community were constructed with more than 93% estimated completeness. The two annotated proteomes shared 64% amino acid identity and a significantly higher number of genes involved in iron update, and NRPS gene clusters, were found in the draft genomes from the ignimbrite. Both the community-wide and genome-specific differences may be related to higher water availability and the colonization of large fissures and cracks in the calcite in contrast to a harsh competition for colonization space and nutrient resources in the narrow pores of the ignimbrite. Together, these results indicated that the habitable architecture of both lithic substrates- chasmoendolithic versus cryptoendolithic - might be an essential element in determining the colonization and the diversity of the microbial communities in endolithic substrates at the dry limit for life.', u'Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) promised to translate their findings into clinically beneficial improvements of patient management by tailoring disease management to the individual through the prediction of disease risk. However, the ability to translate genetic findings from GWAS into predictive tools that are of clinical utility and which may inform clinical practice has, so far, been encouraging but limited. Here we propose to use a more powerful statistical approach that enables the prediction of multiple medically relevant phenotypes without the costs associated with developing a genetic test for each of them. As a proof of principle, we used a common panel of 319,038 SNPs to train the prediction models in 114,264 unrelated White-British for height and four obesity related traits (body mass index, basal metabolic rate, body fat percentage, and waist-to-hip ratio). We obtained prediction accuracies that ranged between 46% and 75% of the maximum achievable given their explained heritable component. This represents an improvement of up to 75% over the phenotypic variance explained by the predictors developed through large collaborations, which used more than twice as many training samples. Across-population predictions in White non-British individuals were similar to those of White-British whilst those in Asian and Black individuals were informative but less accurate. The genotyping of circa 500,000 UK Biobank participants will yield predictions ranging between 66% and 83% of the maximum. We anticipate that our models and a common panel of genetic markers, which can be used across multiple traits and diseases, will be the starting point to tailor disease management to the individual. Ultimately, we will be able to capitalise on whole-genome sequence and environmental risk factors to realise the full potential of genomic medicine.', u'Measurements from structural brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans have been increasingly analyzed as intermediate phenotypes to bridge the gap between clinical features and genetic variation. To date, most imaging phenotypes are scalar, such as the volume of a brain region, which can miss subtle or localized morphological variation associated with genetics or relevant to disease. Neuroanatomical shape measurements - multidimensional geometric descriptions of a brain structure - provide an alternate class of phenotypes that remain largely unexplored. In this paper, we extend the concept of heritability to multidimensional traits, and present the first comprehensive analysis of the heritability of neuroanatomical shape measurements across an ensemble of brain structures based on genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) and MRI data from 1,317 unrelated, young (18-35 years) and healthy individuals. Our results demonstrate that neuroanatomical shape can be significantly heritable, above and beyond volume, and thus can serve as a complementary phenotype to study the genetic underpinnings and clinical relevance of brain structure.', u'One of the major properties of genes is their expression pattern. Notably, genes are often classified as tissue-specific or housekeeping. This property is of interest to molecular evolution as an explanatory factor of, e.g., evolutionary rate, as well as a functional feature which may in itself evolve. While many different methods of measuring tissue specificity have been proposed and used for such studies, there has been no comparison or benchmarking of these methods to our knowledge, and little justification of their use. In this study we compare nine measures of tissue-specificity. Most methods were established for ESTs and microarrays, and several were later adapted to RNA-seq. We analyze their capacity to distinguish gene categories, their robustness to the choice and number of tissues used, and their capture of evolutionary conservation signal.', u'Genetic risk factors often localize in non-coding regions of the genome with unknown effects on disease etiology. Expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) help to explain the regulatory mechanisms underlying the association of genetic risk factors with disease. More mechanistic insights can be derived from knowledge of the context, such as cell type or the activity of signaling pathways, influencing the nature and strength of eQTLs. Here, we generated peripheral blood RNA-seq data from 2,116 unrelated Dutch individuals and systematically identified these context-dependent eQTLs using a hypothesis-free strategy that does not require prior knowledge on the identity of the modifiers. Out of the 23,060 significant cis-regulated genes (false discovery rate \t\u2264 0.05), 2,743 genes (12%) show context-dependent eQTL effects. The majority of those were influenced by cell type composition, revealing eQTLs that are particularly strong in cell types such as CD4+ T-cells, erythrocytes, and even lowly abundant eosinophils. A set of 145 cis-eQTLs were influenced by the activity of the type I interferon signaling pathway and we identified several cis-eQTLs that are modulated by specific transcription factors that bind to the eQTL SNPs. This demonstrates that large-scale eQTL studies in unchallenged individuals can complement perturbation experiments to gain better insight in regulatory networks and their stimuli.', u'Water use efficiency (WUE), defined as the ratio of biomass (B) produced per unit of water transpired (E) by plants, is an important determinant of plant productivity. A mathematical approach was developed with the purpose explaining the WUE of two forage legumes (clover and birdsfoot trefoil). The approach applied involved an interpolation method by cubic spline which results in the smoothest curve that fits the set of data points obtained experimentally. The results obtained show the importance of recognizing the WUE as a function of two variables, one represents the supply (\u03b8) and the other represents the demand (D). It is important to note that these surfaces generated by the model allowed the estimation of the WUE value for any value of \u03b8 and any value of D, showing it is able to dissect the effect of both environmental variables on WUE. From the surface generated by the model, a scalar field plot (SFP) was created. Analysis of these SFPs allowed decomposing the environmental effect on B and E parameters defining WUE. The SFPs allow identify, in one picture, what are the environmental conditions and what variable are explaining a high WUE in both species. Spline application for generating SFP could have a significant impact on the quantitative understanding of the WUE and our study represents a first step towards an analytical and integrated view of this parameters.', u'River impoundments are commonly cited as key disturbances to freshwater aquatic ecosystems. Dams alter natural hydrological regimes, homogenize river system dynamics at a global scale, can act as barriers for migratory species and may facilitate species invasions. In this synthesis, we examined the short- and long-term effects of impoundment on fish population dynamics and community structure. At the population level, we tested the "trophic surge hypothesis", which predicts a hump-shaped response of fish abundance through time after impoundment. We tested the hypothesis on 40 recruitment time series and 125 adult abundance time series from 19 species and nine reservoirs distributed in temperate and boreal regions. At the community level, we compared diversity metrics (richness, evenness, diversity) on two datasets: 1) between reservoirs and reference ecosystems (lakes, rivers, and streams) and 2) over time (before and after impoundment and over time). At the population level, the trophic surge hypothesis was supported in more than 55% of the time series but we observed significant variation across species, reservoirs and regions. Fish recruitment increased substantially during reservoir filling and shortly after impoundment, and was usually followed by an increase in adult fish. The surge was transient and vanished after 3-4 years for recruits and after 10 years for adults. However, we are lacking long time series to conclude about population patterns in the trophic equilibrium phase. At the community level, we did not find any strong directional patterns in species diversity metrics when comparing reservoirs to reference lakes but found higher diversity and evenness in reservoirs and impounded streams/rivers relative to unimpounded streams/rivers. We did not find directional patterns when looking at a change over time. Variability in the reported diversity results across studies may be related to the ability to tease apart the unique effects of impoundment and water regulation from other stressors such as propagule pressure and eutrophication, as well as the comparability of the reference system. In conclusion, fish populations benefited quickly but transiently from impoundment, and longer time series are needed to conclude about population dynamics and equilibrium in aging reservoirs in order to develop management recommendations.', u'In eukaryotes, cytosine methylation is a primary heritable epigenetic modification of the genome that regulates many cellular processes. While the whole-genome methylation pattern has been generally conserved in different eukaryotic groups, invertebrates and vertebrates exhibit two distinct patterns. Whereas almost all CpG sites are methylated in most vertebrates, with the exception of short unmethylated regions call CpG islands, the most frequent pattern in invertebrate animals is \u2018mosaic methylation\u2019, comprising domains of heavily methylated DNA interspersed with domains that are methylation free. The mechanism by which the genome methylation pattern transited from a mosaic to a global pattern and the role of the one or two-round whole-genome duplication in this transition remain largely elusive, partly owing to the lack of methylome data from early vertebrates. In this study, we used the whole-genome bisulfite-sequencing technology to investigate the genome-wide methylation in three tissues (heart, muscle, and sperm) from the sea lamprey, an extant Agarthan vertebrate. Analyses of methylation level and the extent of CpG dinucleotide depletion of gene-encoding, intergenic and promoter regions revealed a gradual increase in the methylation level from invertebrates to vertebrates, with the sea lamprey exhibiting an intermediate position. In addition, the methylation level of the majority of CpGs was intermediate in each sea lamprey tissue, indicating a high level of heterogeneity of methylation status between individual cells. In this regard, we defined the genomic methylation pattern of sea lamprey as ???global genomic DNA intermediate methylation???. The methylation features in different genomic regions, such as the transcription start site (TSS) region of the gene body, exon-intron boundaries, transposons, as well as genes grouping with different expression levels, supported the gradual methylation transition hypothesis. We further discussed that the copy number difference in DNA methylation transferases and the loss of the PWWP domain and/or DNTase domain in DNMT3 sub-family enzymes may have contributed to the methylation pattern transition in early vertebrates. These findings demonstrate an intermediate genomic methylation pattern between invertebrates and jawed vertebrates, providing evidence that supports the hypothesis that methylation patterns underwent a gradual transition from invertebrates (mosaic) to vertebrates (global).', u'Although the importance of density-dependent dispersal has been recognized in theory, few empirical studies have examined how immigration changes over a wide range of densities. In a replicated experiment using a novel approach allowing within-site comparison, we examined changes in immigration rate following the gradual removal of territorial damselfish from a limited area within a much larger patch of continuous habitat. In all sites, immigration occurred at intermediate densities but did not occur before the start of removals and only rarely as density approached zero. In the combined data and in 5 of 7 sites, the number of immigrants was a hump-shaped function of density. This is the first experimental evidence for hump-shaped, density-dependent immigration. This pattern may be more widespread than previously recognized because studies over more limited density ranges have identified positive density dependence at low densities and negative density dependence at high densities. Positive density dependence at low density can arise from limits to the number of potential immigrants and from behavioral preferences for settling near conspecifics. Negative density dependence at high density can arise from competition for resources, especially high quality territories. The potential for non-linear effects of local density on immigration needs to be recognized for robust predictions of conservation reserve function, harvest impacts, pest control, and the dynamics of fragmented populations.', u'A central challenge in the analysis of genetic variation is to provide realistic genome simulation across millions of samples. Present day coalescent simulations do not scale well, or use approximations that fail to capture important long-range linkage properties. Analysing the results of simulations also presents a substantial challenge, as current methods to store genealogies consume a great deal of space, are slow to parse and do not take advantage of shared structure in correlated trees. We solve these problems by introducing sparse trees and coalescence records as the key units of genealogical analysis. Using these tools, exact simulation of the coalescent with recombination for chromosome-sized regions over hundreds of thousands of samples is possible, and substantially faster than present-day approximate methods. We can also analyse the results orders of magnitude more quickly than with existing methods.', u'Neem (Azadirachta indica A. Juss.), an evergreen tree of the Meliaceae family, is known for its medicinal, cosmetic, pesticidal and insecticidal properties. We had previously sequenced and published the draft genome of the plant, using mainly short read sequencing data. In this report, we present an improved genome assembly generated using additional short reads from Illumina and long reads from Pacific Biosciences SMRT sequencer. We assembled short reads and error corrected long reads using Platanus, an assembler designed to perform well for heterozygous genomes. The updated genome assembly (v2.0) yielded 3- and 3.5-fold increase in N50 and N75, respectively; 2.6-fold decrease in the total number of scaffolds; 1.25-fold increase in the number of valid transcriptome alignments; 13.4-fold less mis-assembly and 1.85-fold increase in the percentage repeat, over the earlier assembly (v1.0). The current assembly also maps better to the genes known to be involved in the terpenoid biosynthesis pathway. Together, the data represents an improved assembly of the A. indica genome. The raw data described in this manuscript are submitted to the NCBI Short Read Archive under the accession numbers SRX1074131, SRX1074132, SRX1074133, and SRX1074134 (SRP013453).', u'Double-strand DNA breaks occur upon exposure of cells to agents such as ionizing radiation and ultraviolet light or indirectly through replication fork collapse at DNA damage sites.  If left unrepaired double-strand breaks can cause genome instability and cell death.  In response to DNA damage, proteins involved in double-strand break repair by homologous recombination re-localize into discrete nuclear foci.  We identified 29 proteins that co-localize with the recombination repair protein Rad52 in response to DNA damage.  Of particular interest, Ygr042w/Mte1, a protein of unknown function, showed robust colocalization with Rad52.  Mte1 foci fail to form when the DNA helicase Mph1 is absent. Mte1 and Mph1 form a complex, and are recruited to double-strand breaks in vivo in a mutually dependent manner. Mte1 is important for resolution of Rad52 foci during double-strand break repair, and for suppressing break-induced replication.  Together our data indicate that Mte1 functions with Mph1 in double-strand break repair.', u'Microorganisms colonize a wide range of natural and artificial environments although there are hardly any data on the microbial ecology of one the most widespread man-made extreme structures: solar panels. Here we show that solar panels in a Mediterranean city (Valencia, Spain) harbor a highly diverse microbial community with more than 500 different species per panel, most of which belong to drought-, heat- and radiation-adapted bacterial genera, and sun-irradiation adapted epiphytic fungi. The taxonomic and functional profiles of this microbial community and the characterization of selected culturable bacteria reveal the existence of a diverse mesophilic microbial community on the panels surface. This biocenosis proved to be more similar to the ones inhabiting deserts than to any human or urban microbial ecosystem. This unique microbial community shows different day/night proteomic profiles; it is dominated by reddish pigment- and sphingolipid-producers, and is adapted to withstand circadian cycles of high temperatures, desiccation and solar radiation.', u"The clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeat (CRISPR) system is widely used for various biological applications, including genome editing. We developed engineered DNA-binding molecule-mediated chromatin immunoprecipitation (enChIP) using CRISPR to isolate target genomic regions from cells for their biochemical characterization. In this study, we developed 'in vitro enChIP' using recombinant CRISPR ribonucleoproteins (RNPs) to isolate target genomic regions. in vitro enChIP has the great advantage over conventional enChIP of not requiring expression of CRISPR complexes in cells. We first demonstrate that in vitro enChIP using recombinant CRISPR RNPs can be used to isolate target DNA from mixtures of purified DNA in a sequence-specific manner. In addition, we show that this technology can be employed to efficiently isolate target genomic regions, while retaining their intracellular molecular interactions, with negligible contamination from irrelevant genomic regions. Thus, in vitro enChIP technology is of potential use for sequence-specific isolation of DNA, as well as for identification of molecules interacting with genomic regions of interest in vivo in combination with downstream analysis.", u'In the context of a master level programming practical at the computer science department of the Karlsruhe Institute of Technology, we developed and make available two independent and highly optimized open-source implementations for the pair-wise statistical alignment model, also known as TKF91, that was developed by Thorne, Kishino, and Felsenstein in 1991.\n\nThis paper has two parts. \n\nIn the educational part, we cover teaching issues regarding the setup of the course and the practical and summarize student and teacher experiences.\n\nIn the scientific part, the two student teams (Team I: Nikolai, Sebastian, Daniel; Team II: Sarah, Pierre) present their solutions for implementing efficient and numerically stable implementations of the TKF91 algorithm.\n\nThe two teams worked independently on implementing the same algorithm. Hence, since the implementations yield identical results -with slight numerical deviations- we are confident that the implementations are correct. \n\nWe describe the optimizations applied and make them available as open-source codes in the hope that our findings and software will be useful to the community as well as for similar programming practicals at other universities.', u'We made use of two recent, large-scale Drosophila GAL4 libraries and associated confocal imaging datasets to automatically segment large brain regions into smaller putative functional units such as neuropils and fiber tracts. The method we developed is based on the hypothesis that molecular identity can be used to assign individual voxels to biologically meaningful regions. Our results (available at https://strawlab.org/braincode) are consistent with this hypothesis because regions with well-known anatomy, namely the antennal lobes and central complex, were automatically segmented into familiar compartments. We then applied the algorithm to the central brain regions receiving input from the optic lobes. Based on the automated segmentation and manual validation, we can identify and provide promising driver lines for 10 previously identified and 14 novel types of visual projection neurons and their associated optic glomeruli. The same strategy can be used in other brain regions and likely other species, including vertebrates.', u'Advances in whole genome sequencing (WGS) platforms and DNA library preparation have led to the development of methods for high throughput sequencing of bacterial genomes at a relatively low cost (Loman et al. 2012; Medini et al. 2008). WGS offers unprecedented resolution for determining degrees of relatedness between strains of bacterial pathogens and has proven a powerful tool for microbial population studies and epidemiological investigations (Harris et al. 2010; Lienau et al. 2011; Holt et al. 2009; Ashton, Peters, et al. 2015). The potential utility of WGS to public health microbiology has been highlighted previously (Koser et al. 2012; Kwong et al. 2013; Reuter et al. 2013; Joensen et al. 2014; Nair et al. 2014; Bakker et al. 2014; D Auria et al. 2014). Here we report, for the first time, the routine use of WGS as the primary test for identification, surveillance and outbreak investigation by a national reference laboratory. We present data on how this has revolutionised public health microbiology for one of the most common bacterial pathogens in the United Kingdom, the Salmonellae.', u'The rate at which genomes adapt to environmental changes and the prevalence of adaptive processes in molecular evolution are two controversial issues in current evolutionary genetics. Previous attempts to quantify the genome-wide rate of adaptation through amino-acid substitution have revealed a surprising diversity of patterns, with some species (e.g. Drosophila) experiencing a very high adaptive rate, while other (e.g. humans) are dominated by nearly-neutral processes. It has been suggested that this discrepancy reflects between-species differences in effective population size. Published studies, however, were mainly focused on model organisms, and relied on disparate data sets and methodologies, so that an overview of the prevalence of adaptive protein evolution in nature is currently lacking. Here we extend existing estimators of the amino-acid adaptive rate by explicitly modelling the effect of favourable mutations on non-synonymous polymorphism patterns, and we apply these methods to a newly-built, homogeneous data set of 44 non-model animal species pairs. Data analysis uncovers a major contribution of adaptive evolution to the amino-acid substitution process across all major metazoan phyla - with the notable exception of humans and primates. The proportion of adaptive amino-acid substitution is found to be positively correlated to species effective population size. This relationship, however, appears to be primarily driven by a decreased rate of nearly-neutral amino-acid substitution due to more efficient purifying selection in large populations. Our results reveal that adaptive processes dominate the evolution of proteins in most animal species, but do not corroborate the hypothesis that adaptive substitutions accumulate at a faster rate in large populations. Implications regarding the factors influencing the rate of adaptive evolution and positive selection detection in humans vs. other organisms are discussed.', u'Background: The adaptation of the CRISPR-Cas9 system to pooled library gene knockout screens in mammalian cells represents a major technological leap over RNA interference, the prior state of the art.  New methods for analyzing the data and evaluating results are needed.\nResults: We offer BAGEL (Bayesian Analysis of Gene EssentiaLity), a supervised learning method for analyzing gene knockout screens.  Coupled with gold-standard reference sets of essential and nonessential genes, BAGEL offers significantly greater sensitivity than current methods, while computational optimizations reduce runtime by an order of magnitude.\nConclusions:  Using BAGEL, we identify ~2,000 fitness genes in pooled library knockout screens in human cell lines at 5% FDR, a major advance over competing platforms.  BAGEL shows high sensitivity and specificity even across screens with highly variable reagent quality.', u'Biological organisms have evolved a wide range of immune mechanisms to defend themselves against pathogens. Beyond molecular details, these mechanisms differ in how protection is acquired, processed and passed on to subsequent generations -- differences that may be essential to long-term survival. Here, we introduce a mathematical framework to compare the long-term adaptation of populations as a function of the pathogen dynamics that they experience and of the immune strategy that they adopt. We find that the two key determinants of an optimal immune strategy are the frequency and the characteristic timescale of the pathogens. Depending on these two parameters, our framework identifies distinct modes of immunity, including adaptive, innate, bet-hedging and CRISPR-like immunities, which recapitulate the diversity of natural immune systems.', u'The Saccharomyces cerevisiae genome has undergone extensive intron loss during its evolutionary history. It has been suggested that the few remaining introns (in only 5% of protein-coding genes) are retained because of their impact on function under stress conditions. Here, we explore the possibility that novel non-coding RNA structures (ncRNAs) are embedded within intronic sequences and are contributing to phenotype and intron retention in yeast. We employed de novo RNA structure prediction tools to screen intronic sequences in S. cerevisiae and 36 other fungi. We identified and validated 19 new intronic RNAs via RNAseq and RT-PCR. Contrary to common belief that excised introns are rapidly degraded, we found that, in six cases, the excised introns were maintained intact in the cells. In other two cases we showed that the ncRNAs were further processed from their introns. RNAseq analysis confirmed higher expression of introns in the ribosomial protein genes containing predicted RNA structures. We deleted the novel intronic RNA structure within the GLC7 intron and showed that this predicted ncRNA, rather than the intron itself, is responsible for the cell???s ability to respond to salt stress. We also showed a direct association between the presence of the intronic ncRNA and GLC7 expression. Overall, these data support the notion that some introns may have been maintained in the genome because they harbour functional ncRNAs.', u'The dramatic drop in DNA sequencing costs has created many opportunities for novel biological research. These opportunities largely rest upon the ability to effectively compare newly obtained and previously known sequences. This is commonly done with BLAST, yet using BLAST directly on new datasets requires substantial technical skills or helpful colleagues. Furthermore, graphical interfaces for BLAST are challenging to install and largely mimic underlying computational processes rather than work patterns of researchers.\n\nWe combined a user-centric design philosophy with sustainable software development approaches to create Sequenceserver (http://sequenceserver.com), a modern graphical user interface for BLAST. Sequenceserver substantially increases the efficiency of researchers working with sequence data. This is due first to innovations at three levels. First, our software can be installed and used on custom datasets extremely rapidly for personal and shared applications. Second, based on analysis of user input and simple algorithms, Sequenceserver reduces the amount of decisions the user must make, provides interactive visual feedback, and prevents common potential errors that would otherwise cause erroneous results. Finally, Sequenceserver provides multiple highly visual and text-based output options that mirror the requirements and work patterns of researchers. Together, these features greatly facilitate BLAST analysis and interpretation and thus substantially enhance researcher productivity.', u'The lack of effective biomarkers for predicting cancer risk in premalignant disease is a major clinical problem. There is a near-limitless list of candidate biomarkers and it remains unclear how best to sample the tissue in space and time. Practical constraints mean that only a few of these candidate biomarker strategies can be evaluated empirically and there is no framework to determine which of the plethora of possibilities is the most promising. Here we have sought to solve this problem by developing a theoretical platform for in silico biomarker development. We construct a simple computational model of carcinogenesis in premalignant disease and use the model to evaluate an extensive list of tissue sampling strategies and different molecular measures of these samples. Our model predicts that: (i) taking more biopsies improves prognostication, but with diminishing returns for each additional biopsy; (ii) longitudinally-collected biopsies provide slightly more prognostic information than a single biopsy collected at the latest possible time-point; (iii) measurements of clonal diversity are more prognostic than measurements of the presence or absence of a particular abnormality and are particularly robust to confounding by tissue sampling; and (iv) the spatial pattern of clonal expansions is a particularly prognostic measure. This study demonstrates how the use of a mechanistic framework provided by computational modelling can diminish empirical constraints on biomarker development.', u'We have become increasingly aware that during infection, pathogenic bacteria often grow in multicellular biofilms which are often highly resistant to antibacterial strategies. In order to understand how biofilms form and contribute to infection, in vitro biofilm systems such as microtitre plate assays and flow cells, have been heavily used by many research groups around the world. Whilst these methods have greatly increased our understanding of the biology of biofilms, it is becoming increasingly apparent that many of our in vitro methods do not accurately represent in vivo conditions. Here we present a systematic review of the most widely used in vitro biofilm systems, and we discuss why they are not always representative of the in vivo biofilms found in chronic infections. We present examples of methods that will help us to bridge the gap between in vitro and in vivo biofilm work, so that our bench-side data can ultimately be used to improve bedside treatment.', u'Electron microscopy-based connectomics aims to comprehensively map synaptic connections in neural tissue. However, current approaches are limited in their capacity to directly assign molecular identities to neurons. Here, we use serial multiplex immunogold labeling (siGOLD) and serial-section transmission electron microscopy (ssTEM) to identify multiple peptidergic neurons in a connectome. The high immunogenicity of neuropeptides and their broad distribution along axons, allowed us to identify distinct neurons by immunolabeling small subsets of sections within larger series. We demonstrate the scalability of siGOLD by using 11 neuropeptide antibodies on a full-body larval ssTEM dataset of the annelid Platynereis. We also reconstruct a peptidergic circuitry comprising the sensory nuchal organs, found by siGOLD to express pigment-dispersing factor, a circadian neuropeptide. Our approach enables the direct overlaying of chemical neuromodulatory maps onto synaptic connectomic maps in the study of nervous systems.', u'Motivation: Personal genomes carry inherent privacy risks and protecting privacy poses major\nsocial and technological challenges. We consider the case where a user searches for genetic\ninformation (e.g., an allele) on a server that stores a large genomic database and aims to receive\nallele-associated information. The user would like to keep the query and result private and the\nserver the database.\n\nApproach: We propose a novel approach that combines efficient string data structures such as\nthe Burrows-Wheeler transform with cryptographic techniques based on additive homomorphic\nencryption. We assume that the sequence data is searchable in efficient iterative query operations\nover a large indexed dictionary, for instance, from large genome collections and employing the\n(positional) Burrows-Wheeler transform. We use a technique called oblivious transfer that is\nbased on additive homomorphic encryption to conceal the sequence query and the genomic\nregion of interest in positional queries.\n\nResults: We designed and implemented an efficient algorithm for searching sequences of SNPs\nin large genome databases. During search, the user can only identify the longest match while\nthe server does not learn which sequence of SNPs the user queries. In an experiment based\non 2,184 aligned haploid genomes from the 1,000 Genomes Project, our algorithm was able to\nperform typical queries within \u22484.6 seconds and \u224810.8 seconds seconds for client and server side,\nrespectively, on a laptop computer. The presented algorithm is at least one order of magnitude\nfaster than an exhaustive baseline algorithm.', u'Coevolutionary dynamics act on both species and their interactions in ways that shape ecological communities. It remains unclear, however, how the structure of communities at larger spatial scales inf l uences or is influenced by local coevolutionary processes, and how mechanisms acting at these different scales feedback onto one another. Here we show that, although species interactions vary substantially over a continental gradient, the coevolutionary signif i cance of individual interactions is maintained across different scales. Notably, this occurs despite the fact that observed community variation at the local scale frequently tends to weaken or remove community-wide coevolutionary signal. When considered in terms of the interplay between community ecology and coevolutionary theory, our results demonstrate that individual interactions are capable and indeed likely to show a consistent signature of past coevolution even when woven into communities that do not.', u'Alternative polyadenylation (APA) is a general mechanism of transcript diversification in mammals, which has been recently linked to proliferative states and cancer. Different 3\u2032 untranslated region (3\u2032 UTR) isoforms interact with different RNA binding proteins (RBPs), which modify the stability, translation, and subcellular localization of the corresponding transcripts. Although the heterogeneity of pre-mRNA 3\u2032 end processing has been established with high-throughput approaches, the mechanisms that underlie systematic changes in 3\u2032 UTR lengths remain to be characterized. Through a uniform analysis of a large number of 3\u2032 end sequencing data sets we have uncovered 18 signals, 6 of which novel, whose positioning with respect to pre-mRNA cleavage sites indicates a role in pre-mRNA 3\u2032 end processing in both mouse and human. With 3\u2032 end sequencing we have demonstrated that the heterogeneous ribonucleoprotein C (HNRNPC), which binds the poly(U) motif whose frequency also peaks in the vicinity of polyadenylation (poly(A)) sites, has a genome-wide effect on poly(A) site usage. HNRNPC-regulated 3\u2032 UTRs are enriched in ELAV-like RNA binding protein 1 (ELAVL1) binding sites and include those of the CD47 molecule (CD47) gene, which participate in the recently discovered mechanism of 3\u2032 UTR-dependent protein localization (UDPL). Our study thus establishes an up-to-date, high-confidence catalog of 3\u2032 end processing sites and poly(A) signals and it uncovers an important role of HNRNPC in regulating 3\u2032 end processing. It further suggests that U-rich elements mediate interactions with multiple RBPs that regulate different stages in a transcript\u2019s life cycle.', u'Deletions, commonly referred to as deficiencies by Drosophila geneticists, are valuable tools for mapping genes and for genetic pathway discovery via dose-dependent suppressor and enhancer screens. More recently, it has become clear that deviations from normal gene dosage are associated with multiple disorders in a range of species including humans. While we are beginning to understand some of the transcriptional effects brought about by gene dosage changes and the chromosome rearrangement breakpoints associated with them, much of this work relies on isolated examples. We have systematically examined deficiencies on the left arm of chromosome 2 and characterize gene-by-gene dosage responses that vary from collapsed expression through modest partial dosage compensation to full or even over compensation. We found negligible long-range effects of creating novel chromosome domains at deletion breakpoints, suggesting that cases of changes in gene regulation due to altered nuclear architecture are rare. These rare cases include trans de-repression when deficiencies delete chromatin characterized as repressive in other studies. Generally, effects of breakpoints on expression are promoter proximal (~100 bp) or within the gene body. Genome-wide effects of deficiencies are observed at genes with regulatory relationships to genes within the deleted segments, highlighting the subtle expression network defects in these sensitized genetic backgrounds.', u'Recent studies involving the 3-dimensional conformation of chromatin have revealed the important role it has to play in different processes within the cell. These studies have also led to the discovery of densely interacting segments of the chromosome, called topologically associating domains. The accurate identification of these domains from Hi-C interaction data is an interesting and important computational problem for which numerous methods have been proposed. Unfortunately, most existing algorithms designed to identify these domains assume that they are non-overlapping whereas there is substantial evidence to believe a nested structure exists. We present an efficient methodology to predict hierarchical chromatin domains using chromatin conformation capture data. Our method predicts domains at different resolutions and uses these to construct a hierarchy that is based on intrinsic properties of the chromatin data. The hierarchy consists of a set of non-overlapping domains, that maximize intra-domain interaction frequencies, at each level. We show that our predicted structure is highly enriched for CTCF and various other chromatin markers. We also show that large-scale domains, at multiple resolutions within our hierarchy, are conserved across cell types and species. Our software, Matryoshka, is written in C++11 and licensed under GPL v3; it is available at https://github.com/COMBINE-lab/matryoshka.', u'Current genome assemblies consist of thousands of contigs. These incomplete and fragmented assemblies lead to errors in gene identification, such that single genes spread across multiple contigs are annotated as separate gene models. We present AGOUTI (Annotated Genome Optimization Using Transcriptome Information), a tool that uses RNA-seq data to simultaneously combine contigs into scaffolds and fragmented gene models into single models.  We show that AGOUTI improves both the contiguity of genome assemblies and the accuracy of gene annotation, providing updated versions of each as output.', u'Bacterial biofilms are a significant medical challenge as they are recalcitrant to current therapeutic regimes. A key component of biofilm formation in the opportunistic human pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa is the biosynthesis of the exopolysaccharides Pel and Psl, which are involved in the formation and maintenance of the structural biofilm scaffold and protection against antimicrobials and host defenses. Given that the glycoside hydrolases - PelAh and PslGh - encoded in the pel and psl biosynthetic operons, respectively, are utilized for in vivo exopolysaccharide processing, we reasoned that these would provide specificity to target P. aeruginosa biofilms. Evaluating these enzymes as potential therapeutics, we demonstrate that these glycoside hydrolases selectively target and degrade the exopolysaccharide component of the biofilm matrix and that nanomolar concentrations of these enzymes can both prevent biofilm formation as well as rapidly disrupt preexisting biofilms in vitro. This treatment was effective against clinical and environmental P. aeruginosa isolates and reduced biofilm biomass by 58-94%. These non-cytotoxic enzymes potentiated antibiotics as the addition of either enzyme to a sub-lethal concentration of colistin reduced viable bacterial counts by 2.5 orders of magnitude. Additionally, PelAh was able to increase neutrophil killing by ~50%. This work illustrates the feasibility and benefits of using bacterial exopolysaccharide biosynthetic glycoside hydrolases and synthetic biology to develop novel anti-biofilm therapeutics.', u'Opsins are photosensitive proteins catalyzing light-dependent processes across the tree of life. For both microbial (type 1) and metazoan (type 2) opsins, photosensing depends upon covalent interaction between a retinal chromophore and a conserved lysine residue.  Despite recent discoveries of potential opsin homologs lacking this residue, phylogenetic dispersal and functional significance of these abnormal sequences have not yet been investigated. We report discovery of a large group of putatively non-retinal binding opsins, present in a number of fungal and microbial genomes and comprising nearly 30% of opsins in the Halobacteriacea, a model clade for opsin photobiology. Based on phylogenetic analyses, structural modeling, genomic context and biochemistry, we propose that these abnormal opsin homologs represent a novel family of sensory opsins which may be involved in taxis response to one or more non-light stimuli. This finding challenges current understanding of microbial opsins as a light-specific sensory family, and provides a potential analogy with the highly diverse signaling capabilities of the eukaryotic G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), of which metazoan type 2 opsins are a light-specific sub-clade.', u'This study examines how processes such as reward/aversion and attention, which are often studied as independent processes, in fact interact at a systems level. We operationalize attention with a continuous performance task and variables from signal detection theory, and reward/aversion with a keypress task using variables from relative preference theory. We find that while the relationship between reward/aversion and attention is functionally invariant, a power law formulation akin to the Cobb-Douglas production function in economics provides the best model fit and theoretical explanation for the interaction. These results indicate that a decreasing signal-to-noise with signal detection results in higher loss aversion. Furthermore, the estimated exponents for the multiplicative power law suggest capacity constraints to processing for attention and reward/aversion. These results demonstrate a systemic interaction of attention and reward/aversion across subjects, with a quantitative schema raising the hypothesis that mechanistic inference may be possible at the level of behavior alone.', u'Motivation: DisGeNET-RDF makes available knowledge on the genetic basis of human diseases in the Semantic Web (SW). Gene-disease associations (GDAs) and their provenance metadata are published as human-readable and machine-processable web resources. The information on GDAs included in DisGeNET-RDF is interlinked to other biomedical databases to support the development of bioinformatics approaches for translational research through evidence-based exploitation of a rich and fully interconnected Linked Open Data (LOD).', u'The relative importance of regulation at the mRNA versus protein level is subject to ongoing debate. To address this question in a dynamic system, we mapped the proteomics and transcriptomics changes in mammalian cells responding to stress induced by dithiothreitol over 30 hours. Specifically, we estimated the kinetic parameters for synthesis and degradation of RNA and proteins, and deconvoluted response patterns common and unique to each regulatory level using a new statistical tool. Overall, both regulatory levels were equally important, but differed in their impact on molecule concentrations. Both mRNA and protein changes peaked between two and eight hours, but mRNA expression fold changes were much smaller than those of the proteins. Further, mRNA concentrations were regulated in a transient, spike-like pattern and returned to values close to pre-treatment levels by the end of the experiment. In contrast, protein concentrations switched only once and established a new steady state, consistent with the dominant role of protein regulation during misfolding stress. Finally, we generated hypotheses on specific regulatory modes for example groups of genes.', u'During normal organ development, the progenitor cell state is transient: it depends on specific combinations of transcription factors and extracellular signals, that cooperate to sustain the proliferative potential and undifferentiated status of organ progenitor cells. Not surprisingly, abnormal maintenance of progenitor transcription factors may lead to tissue overgrowth, and the concurrence of specific signals from the local environment is often critical to trigger this overgrowth. Therefore, the identification of the specific combinations of transcription factors and signals that promote or oppose proliferation in progenitor cells is essential to understand normal development and disease. We have investigated this issue by asking what signals may promote the proliferation of eye progenitors in Drosophila. Two transcription factors, the MEIS1 homologue homothorax (hth) and the Zn-finger teashirt (tsh) are transiently expressed in eye progenitors causing the expansion of the progenitor pool. However, if their co-expression is maintained experimentally, cell proliferation continues and differentiation is halted. Here we show that Hth+Tsh-induced tissue overgrowth requires the BMP2 ligand Dpp and the activation of its pathway. In Hth+Tsh cells, the Dpp pathway is abnormally hyperactivated. Rather than using autocrine Dpp expression, Hth+Tsh cells increase their avidity for Dpp, produced locally, by upregulating extracellular matrix components. During normal development, Dpp represses hth and tsh ensuring that the progenitor state is transient. However, cells in which Hth+Tsh expression is maintained use Dpp to enhance their proliferation.', u'Inferring species interactions from co-occurrence data is one of the most controversial tasks in community ecology. One difficulty is that a single pairwise interaction can ripple through an ecological network and produce surprising indirect consequences. For example, the negative correlation between two competing species can be reversed in the presence of a third species that is capable of outcompeting both of them. Here, I apply models from statistical physics, called Markov networks or Markov random fields, that can predict the direct and indirect consequences of any possible species interaction matrix. Interactions in these models can also be estimated from observed co-occurrence rates via maximum likelihood, controlling for indirect effects. Using simulated landscapes with known pairwise interaction strengths, I evaluated Markov networks and six existing approaches. The Markov networks consistently outperformed other methods, correctly isolating direct interactions between species pairs even when indirect interactions or abiotic factors largely overpowered them. Two computationally efficient approximations, based on controlling for indirect effects with linear or generalized linear models, also performed well. Indirect effects reliably caused a common null modeling approach to produce incorrect inferences, however.', u'Urbanization results in pervasive habitat fragmentation and reduces standing genetic variation through bottlenecks and drift. Loss of genome-wide variation may ultimately reduce the evolutionary potential of animal populations experiencing rapidly changing conditions. In this study, we examined genome-wide variation among 23 white-footed mouse (Peromyscus leucopus) populations sampled along an urbanization gradient in the New York City metropolitan area. Genome-wide variation was estimated as a proxy for evolutionary potential using more than 10,000 SNP markers generated by ddRAD-Seq. We found that genome-wide variation is inversely related to urbanization as measured by percent impervious surface cover, and to a lesser extent, human population density. We also report that urbanization results in enhanced genome-wide differentiation between populations in cities. There was no pattern of isolation by distance among these populations, but an isolation by resistance model based on impervious surface significantly explained patterns of genetic differentiation. Isolation by environment modeling also indicated that urban populations deviate much more strongly from global allele frequencies than suburban or rural populations. This study is the first to examine loss of genome-wide SNP variation along an urban-to-rural gradient and quantify urbanization as a driver of population genomic patterns.', u'As the pace of implementing personalized medicine concepts increases, high-throughput variant calling on hundreds of individual genomes per day is a reality that will likely be faced by sequencing facilities across the country in the near future. While the scientific best practices for human variant calling workflows have been well defined, they also pose serious computational challenges at this high scale. Therefore, efforts in both academia and the private sector have focused on developing alternative workflows that may substantially reduce the computational cost per individual genome. iSAAC is an "ultra-fast" variant calling workflow, designed by Illumina, Inc, and is claimed to be six times faster than BWA-GATK, with comparable sensitivity and specificity. This report is an independent review of iSAAC, mainly focused on the accuracy of variant calls. We note that iSAAC is indeed quite fast, and provide some benchmarks on a few hardware architectures. The overall conclusion from our analysis is that the iSAAC workflow has undergone substantial improvement from version 01.14.11.27 to iSAAC_2.0. The call accuracy is especially high on NA12878, however exomes and genomic data outside the Platinum sets tend to have a high fraction of false positive calls. We did not manage to reproduce the 99% sensitivity and specificity reported in the Illumina whitepaper, however that might be improved with further tweaking of the options. This report includes the information about some of the command-line parameters and documentation.', u"Summary: One gene can produce multiple transcript variants en-coding proteins with different functions. To facilitate visual analysis of transcript variants, we developed ProtAnnot, which shows protein annotations in the context of genomic sequence. ProtAnnot searches InterPro and displays profile matches (protein annotations) alongside gene models, exposing how alternative promoters, splicing, and 3' end processing add, remove, or remodel functional motifs. To draw attention to these effects, ProtAnnot color-codes exons by frame and displays a cityscape graphic summarizing exonic sequence at each position. These techniques make visual analysis of alternative transcripts faster and more convenient for biologists.  \nAvailability and Implementation: ProtAnnot is a plug-in App for Integrated Genome Browser, an open source desktop genome browser available from http://www.bioviz.org.", u'Background: Many different methods exist to adjust for variability in cell-type mixture proportions when analyzing DNA methylation studies. Here we present the result of an extensive simulation study, built on cell-separated DNA methylation profiles from Illumina Infinium 450K methylation data, to compare the performance of 8 methods including the most commonly-used approaches.\n\nResults: We designed a rich multi-layered simulation containing a set of probes with true associations with either binary or continuous phenotypes, confounding by cell type, variability in means and standard deviations for population parameter, additional variability at the level of an individual cell-type-specific sample, and variability in the mixture proportions across samples. Performance varied quite substantially across methods and simulations. In particular, the false discovery rates (FDR) were sometimes unrealistically high, indicating limited ability to discriminate the true signals from those appearing significant through confounding. Methods that filtered probes had consequently poor power. QQ-plots of p-values across all tested probes showed that adjustments did not always improve the distribution. The same methods were used to examine associations between smoking and methylation data from a case-control study of colorectal cancer.\n\nConclusions: We recommend surrogate variable analysis for cell-type mixture adjustment since performance was stable under all our simulated scenarios.', u'Farming and sedentism first appear in southwest Asia during the early Holocene and later spread to neighboring regions, including Europe, along multiple dispersal routes. Conspicuous uncertainties remain about the relative roles of migration, cultural diffusion and admixture with local foragers in the early Neolithisation of Europe. Here we present paleogenomic data for five Neolithic individuals from northwestern Turkey and northern Greece, spanning the time and region of the earliest spread of farming into Europe. We observe striking genetic similarity both among Aegean early farmers and with those from across Europe. Our study demonstrates a direct genetic link between Mediterranean and Central European early farmers and those of Greece and Anatolia, extending the European Neolithic migratory chain all the way back to southwestern Asia.', u'We developed an inexpensive methylation-based capture method for enriching host DNA from noninvasively obtained fecal samples. We demonstrate that the enrichment is robust, efficient, and compatible with downstream library preparation methods, including complexity-reduction approaches for massively parallel sequencing. Because feces are widely available and convenient to collect, our method empowers researchers to explore genomic-scale population-level questions in organisms for which invasive sampling is challenging or undesirable.', u'Zika virus (ZIKV) infections were more common in the zoonotic cycle until the end of the 20th century with few human cases in Africa and Southeastern Asia.  Recently, the Asian lineage of ZIKV is spreading along human-to-human chains of transmission in the Pacific Islands and in South America.  To better understand its recent urban expansion, we compared genetic differences among the lineages.  Herein we show that the recent Asian lineage spread is associated with significant NS1 codon usage adaptation to human housekeeping genes, which could facilitate viral replication and increase viral titers.  These findings were supported by a significant correlation with growth in Malthusian fitness.  Furthermore, we predicted several epitopes in the NS1 protein that are shared between ZIKV and Dengue. Our results imply in a significant dependence of the recent human ZIKV spread on NS1 translational selection.', u'Recently, LD Score regression1 has been proposed as a computationally fast method to contrast confounding biases with polygenicity and to quantify their contribution to the inflation of test statistics in GWAS. \nIn this communication, we extend the LD Score regression approach by applying the generalized estimation equations (GEE) framework, which is capable of incorporating more external information from reference panels about the correlation structure of test statistics. We apply our GEE approach and LD Score regression to simulated and real data to compare their performance.\nWe show that our proposed methodology obtains more efficient estimates while preserving the robustness and desired properties of LD Score regression.', u'Understanding the relationship between variations in DNA methylation and gene expression has been challenging. Evidence\nsuggests the function of DNA methylation may vary with genomic context, and few consistent rules linking methylation to\nexpression have been noted. For array-based studies, the content of current DNA methylation array platforms provide broad\ncoverage of the genome but target only a fraction of the potentially methylated CG dinucleotides. A better understanding of the\ninterplay between DNA methylation and gene expression is beneficial for users of these platforms, and may aid with candidate\nprioritization in epigenome-wide association studies (EWAS). To address this we examined the relationship between DNA\nmethylation levels and gene expression in primary T-lymphocytes at discreet genomic regions around the transcriptional unit\n(Promoters, gene body, untranslated regions) and at CpG island-associated regions (islands, shores and shelves), stratifying\nby high and low expressed genes. As anticipated we found evidence that DNA methylation at CpG sites near promoter regions\nare tightly correlated with gene expression in both the stably expressed and developmentally regulated genes, however this\nis dependent on CpG density. DNA methylation within the gene body was not consistently associated with changes in gene\nexpression. CpG islands and island shores exhibited strong correlations with gene expression, but this was not true for island\nshelves. We found these relationships were generally preserved at both dynamic and steady state genes, with some notable\nexceptions. In combination these insights may be useful for prioritising candidates identified in epigenome-wide association\nstudies for subsequent functional studies.', u'Ribosome profiling produces snapshots of the locations of actively translating ribosomes on messenger RNAs. These snapshots can be used to make inferences about translation dynamics. Recent ribosome profiling studies in yeast, however, have reached contradictory conclusions regarding the average translation rate of each codon. Some experiments have used cycloheximide (CHX) to stabilize ribosomes before measuring\ntheir positions, and these studies all counterintuitively report a weak negative correlation between the translation rate of a codon and the abundance of its cognate tRNA.\nIn contrast, some experiments performed without CHX report strong positive correlations. To explain this contradiction, we identify unexpected patterns in ribosome density downstream of each type of codon in experiments that use CHX. These patterns are evidence that elongation continues to occur in the presence of CHX but with dramatically altered codon-specific elongation rates. The measured positions of ribosomes in these experiments therefore do not reflect the amounts of time ribosomes spend at each position in vivo. These results suggest that conclusions from experiments in yeast using CHX may need reexamination. In particular, we show that in all such experiments, codons decoded by less abundant tRNAs were in fact being translated more slowly before the addition of CHX disrupted these dynamics.', u'A mechanism for polarized transport of vesicles by means of osmotic propulsions is proposed and substantiated for tip-growing cells. An analysis is presented which shows that in pollen tubes the gradient of cytosolic water potential can drive vesicle movement either in the anterograde or retrograde direction, depending on the vesicle position, its radius and the phase of growth oscillation. The importance of transcellular water flow for cytoskeletal dynamics and cell motility is highlighted.', u'Accurate annotation of protein coding regions is essential for understanding how genetic information is translated into biological functions. Here we describe riboHMM, a new method that uses ribosome footprint data along with gene expression and sequence information to accurately infer translated sequences. We applied our method to human lymphoblastoid cell lines and identified 7,273 previously unannotated coding sequences, including 2,442 translated upstream open reading frames. We observed an enrichment of harringtonine-treated ribosome footprints at the inferred initiation sites, validating many of the novel coding sequences. The novel sequences exhibit significant signatures of selective constraint in the reading frames of the inferred proteins, suggesting that many of these are functional. Nearly 40% of bicistronic transcripts showed significant negative correlation in the levels of translation of their two coding sequences, suggesting a key regulatory role for these novel translated sequences. Our work significantly expands the set of known coding regions in humans.', u'1. Large-scale species occurrence data from geo-referenced observations and collected specimens are crucial for analyses in ecology, evolution and biogeography. Despite the rapidly growing availability of such data, their use in evolutionary analyses is often hampered by tedious manual classification of point occurrences into operational areas, leading to a lack of reproducibility and concerns regarding data quality.\n2. Here we present speciesgeocodeR, a user-friendly R-package for data cleaning, data exploration and data visualization of species point occurrences using discrete operational areas, and linking them to analyses invoking phylogenetic trees.\n3. The three core functions of the package are 1) automated and reproducible data cleaning, 2) rapid and reproducible classification of point occurrences into discrete operational areas in an adequate format for subsequent biogeographic analyses, and 3) a comprehensive summary and visualization of species distributions to explore large datasets and ensure data quality. In addition, speciesgeocodeR facilitates the access and analysis of publicly available species occurrence data, widely used operational areas and elevation ranges. Other functionalities include the implementation of minimum occurrence thresholds and the visualization of coexistence patterns and range sizes. SpeciesgeocodeR accompanies a richly illustrated and easy-to-follow tutorial and help functions.', u"Sexual antagonism (SA) arises when male and female phenotypes are under opposing selection, yet genetically correlated. Until resolved, antagonism limits evolution towards optimal sex-specific phenotypes. Despite its importance for sex-specific adaptation and existing theory, the dynamics of SA resolution are not well understood empirically. Here, we present data from Drosophila melanogaster, compatible with a resolution of SA. We compared two independent replicates of the 'LHM' population in which SA had previously been described. Both had been maintained under identical, controlled conditions, and separated for <250 generations. Although heritabilities of male and female fitness were similar, the inter-sexual genetic correlation differed significantly, being negative in one replicate (indicating SA) but close to zero in the other. Using population sequencing, we show that phenotypic differences were associated with population divergence in allele frequencies at non-random loci across the genome. Large frequency changes were more prevalent in the population without SA and were enriched at loci mapping to genes previously shown to have a sexually antagonistic relationships between expression and fitness. Our data suggest that rapid evolution towards SA resolution has occurred in one of the populations and open avenues towards studying the genetics of SA and its resolution.", u"Every human cognitive function, such as visual object recognition, is realized in a complex spatio-temporal activity pattern in the brain. Current brain imaging techniques in isolation cannot resolve the brain's spatio-temporal dynamics because they provide either high spatial or temporal resolution but not both. To overcome this limitation, we developed a new integration approach that uses representational similarities to combine measurements from different imaging modalities - magnetoencephalography (MEG) and functional MRI (fMRI) - to yield a spatially and temporally integrated characterization of neuronal activation. Applying this approach to two independent MEG-fMRI data sets, we observed that neural activity first emerged in the occipital pole at 50-80ms, before spreading rapidly and progressively in the anterior direction along the ventral and dorsal visual streams. These results provide a novel and comprehensive, spatio-temporally resolved view of the rapid neural dynamics during the first few hundred milliseconds of object vision. They further demonstrate the feasibility of spatially unbiased representational similarity based fusion of MEG and fMRI, promising new insights into how the brain computes complex cognitive functions.", u'Methods that infer site-specific dN/dS, the ratio of nonsynonymous to synonymous substi- tution rates, from coding data have been developed primarily to identify positively selected sites (dN/dS > 1). As a consequence, it is largely unknown how well different inference methods can infer dN/dS point estimates at individual sites. In particular, dN/dS may be estimated using either a one-rate approach, where dN/dS is parameterized as a single parameter, or a two-rate approach, in which dN and dS are estimated separately. While some have suggested that the two-rate paradigm may be preferred for positive-selection inference, the relative merits of these two paradigms for site-specific dN/dS estimation remain largely untested. Here, we systematically assess how accurately several popular inference frameworks infer site-specific dN/dS values using alignments simulated within a mutation-selection framework rather than within a dN/dS-based framework. As mutation-selection models describe long-term evolutionary constraints, our simulation approach further allows us to study under what conditions inferred dN/dS captures the underlying equilibrium evolutionary process. We find that one-rate inference models universally outperform two-rate models. Surprisingly, we recover this result even for data simulated with codon bias (i.e., dS varies among sites). Therefore, even when extensive dS variation exists, modeling this variation substantially reduces accuracy. We additionally find that high levels of divergence among sequences, rather than the number of sequences in the alignment, are more critical for obtaining precise point estimates. We conclude that inference methods which model dN/dS with a single parameter are the preferred choice for estimating reliable site-specific dN/dS ratios.', u'Many theories have been proposed attempting to explain the origin of the genetic code. While strong reasons remain to believe that the genetic code evolved as a frozen accident, at least for the first few amino acids, other theories remain viable. In this work, we test the optimality of the standard genetic code against approximately 17 million genetic codes, and locate 18 which outperform the standard genetic code at the following three criteria: (a) robustness to point mutation; (b) robustness to frameshift mutation; and (c) ability to encode additional information in the coding region. We use a genetic algorithm to generate and score codes from different parts of the associated landscape, and are, as a result presumably more representative of the entire landscape. Our results show that while the genetic code is sub-optimal for robustness to frameshift mutation and the ability to encode additional information in the coding region, it is very strongly selected for robustness to point mutation. This coupled with the observation that the different performance indicator scores for a particular genetic code are seemingly negatively correlated, make the standard genetic code nearly optimal for the three criteria tested in this work.', u'Estimation of heritability is fundamental in genetic studies. In recent years, heritability estimation using linear mixed models (LMMs) has gained popularity, because these estimates can be obtained from unrelated individuals collected in genome wide association studies. Typically, heritability estimation under LMMs uses either the maximum likelihood (ML) or the restricted maximum likelihood (REML) approach. Existing methods for the construction of confidence intervals and estimators of standard errors for both ML and REML rely on asymptotic properties. However, these assumptions are often violated due to the bounded parameter space, statistical dependencies, and limited sample size, leading to biased estimates, and inflated or deflated confidence intervals. Here, we show that often the probability that the genetic component is estimated as zero is high even when the true heritability is bounded away from zero, emphasizing the need for accurate confidence intervals. We further show that the estimation of confidence intervals by state-of-the-art methods is highly inaccurate, especially when the true heritability is either relatively low or relatively high. Such biases are present, for example, in estimates of heritability of gene expression in the GTEx study, and of lipid profiles in the LURIC study. We propose a computationally efficient method, Accurate LMM-Based confidence Intervals (ALBI), for the estimation of the distribution of the heritability estimator, and for the construction of accurate confidence intervals. Our method can be used as an add-on to existing methods for heritability and variance components estimation, such as GCTA, FaST-LMM, GEMMA, or EMMA. ALBI is available at http://www.cs.tau.ac.il/~heran/cozygene/software/albi.html.', u'We conducted a genome-wide association study of subjective well-being (SWB) in 298,420 individuals. We also performed auxiliary analyses of depressive symptoms ("DS"; N = 161,460) and neuroticism (N = 170,910), both of which have a substantial genetic correlation with SWB (\u03c1\u2248-0.8). We identify three SNPs associated with SWB at genome-wide significance. Two of them are significantly associated with DS in an independent sample. In our auxiliary analyses, we identify 13 additional genome-wide-significant associations: two with DS and eleven with neuroticism, including two inversion polymorphisms. Across our phenotypes, loci regulating expression in central nervous system and adrenal/pancreas tissues are enriched. The discovery of genetic loci associated with the three phenotypes we study has proven elusive; our findings illustrate the payoffs from studying them jointly.', u"Somatic tissue evolves over a vertebrate's lifetime due to the accumulation of mutations in stem cell populations. Mutations may alter cellular fitness and contribute to tumorigenesis or aging. The distribution of mutational effects within somatic cells is not known. Given the unique regulatory regime of somatic cell division we hypothesize that mutational effects in somatic tissue fall into a different framework than whole organisms; one in which there are more mutations of large effect. Through simulation analysis we investigate the fit of tumor incidence curves generated using exponential and power law Distributions of Fitness Effects (DFE) to known tumorigenesis incidence. Modeling considerations include the architecture of stem cell populations, i.e., a large number of very small populations, and mutations that do and do not fix neutrally in the stem cell niche.  We find that the typically quantified DFE in whole organisms is sufficient to explain tumorigenesis incidence. Further, due to the effects of small stem cell population sizes, i.e., strong genetic drift, deleterious mutations are predicted to accumulate, resulting in reduced tissue maintenance. Thus, despite there being a large number of stem cells throughout the intestine, its compartmental architecture leads to significant aging, a prime example of Muller's Ratchet.", u'A major constraint on the evolution of large body sizes in animals is an increased risk of developing cancer. There is no correlation, however, between body size and cancer risk. This lack of correlation is often referred to as "Peto\u2032s Paradox". Here we show that the elephant genome encodes 20 copies of the tumor suppressor gene TP53 and that the increase in TP53 copy number occurred coincident with the evolution of large body sizes in the elephant (Proboscidean) lineage. Furthermore we show that several of the TP53 retrogenes are transcribed and translated and contribute to an enhanced sensitivity of elephant cells to DNA damage and the induction of apoptosis via a hyperactive TP53 signaling pathway. These results suggest that an increase in the copy number of TP53 may have played a direct role in the evolution of very large body sizes and the resolution of Peto\u2032s paradox in Proboscideans.', u"The prediction of future child's sex is a question of keen public interest. The probability of having a child of either sex is close to 50%, although multiple factors may slightly change this value. Some demographic studies suggested that sex determination can be influenced by previous pregnancies, although this hypothesis was not commonly accepted. This paper explores the correlations between siblings' sexes using data from the Demographic and Health Survey program. In the sample of about 2,214,601 women (7,985,855 children), the frequencies of sibships with multiple siblings of the same sex were significantly higher than can be expected by chance. A formal modelling demonstrated that sexes of the children were dependent on three kinds of sex ratio variation: a variation between families (Lexian), a variation within a family (Poisson) and a variation contingent upon the sex of preceding sibling (Markovian). There was a positive correlation between the sexes of successive siblings (coefficient = 0.067, p < 0.001), i.e. a child was more likely to be of the same sex as its preceding sibling. This correlation could be caused by secondary sex ratio adjustment in utero since the effect was decreasing with the length of birth-to-birth interval, and the birth-to-birth interval was longer for siblings with unlike sex.", u'Many studies show that short non-coding sequences are widely conserved among regulatory elements. More and more conserved sequences are being discovered since the development next generation sequencing technology. A common approach to identify conserved sequences with regulatory roles rely on the topological change such as hairpin formation on the DNA or RNA level. However G quadruplexes, a non-canonical nucleic acid topology with little established biological role, is rarely considered for conserved regulatory element discovery. Here we present the use of G-quadruplex prediction algorithm to identify putative G-quadruplex-forming and conserved elements in E.coli genome. Phylogenetic analysis of 52 G-quadruplex forming sequences revealed two conserved G-quadruplex motifs with potential regulatory role.', u'Human scene recognition is a rapid multistep process evolving over time from single scene image to spatial layout processing. We used multivariate pattern analyses on magnetoencephalography (MEG) data to unravel the time course of this cortical process. Following an early signal for lower-level visual analysis of single scenes at ~100ms, we found a marker of real-world scene size, i.e. spatial layout processing, at ~250ms indexing neural representations robust to changes in unrelated scene properties and viewing conditions. For a quantitative explanation that captures the complexity of scene recognition, we compared MEG data to a deep neural network model trained on scene classification. Representations of scene size emerged intrinsically in the model, and resolved emerging neural scene size representation. Together our data provide a first description of an electrophysiological signal for layout processing in humans, and a novel quantitative model of how spatial layout representations may emerge in the human brain.', u"G proteins are an important family of signalling molecules controlled by guanine nucleotide exchange and GTPase activity in what is commonly called an 'activation/inactivation cycle'. The molecular mechanism by which guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) catalyse the activation of monomeric G proteins is well-established, however the complete reversibility of this mechanism is often overlooked. Here, we use a theoretical approach to prove that GEFs are unable to positively control G protein systems at steady-state in the absence of GTPase activity. Instead, positive regulation of G proteins must be seen as a product of the competition between guanine nucleotide exchange and GTPase activity -- emphasising a central role for GTPase activity beyond merely signal termination. We conclude that a more accurate description of the regulation of G proteins via these processes is as a 'balance/imbalance' mechanism. This result has implications for the understanding of many intracellular signalling processes, and for experimental strategies that rely on modulating G protein systems.", u'Sperm competition theory predicts that increase in sperm competition should result in bigger male reproductive organ(s) or higher ejaculate investment. We test this idea using experimental evolution in Drosophila melanogaster. We maintained replicate populations of Drosophila under male (M) and female (F) biased sex ratio regimes for more than a hundred generations. Males in M regime have evolved higher sperm competitive ability than those in F. We measured the testes and the accessory gland size of virgin and singly mated males from the M and F populations. The M and F males do not differ in either testis or accessory gland size. Additionally, ejaculate investment is not different in the M and F males, as measured by reduction in testis and accessory gland sizes. Thus, contrary to theoretical prediction and evidence from other species, evolved differences in sperm competitive ability is not due to evolution of testis/accessory gland size or strategic ejaculate investment in these populations.', u"Studying the pattern of genetic variants is a primary step in deciphering the basis of biological diversity, identifying key `driver variants' that affect disease states and evolution of a species. Catalogs of genetic variants contain vast numbers of variants and are growing at an exponential rate, but lack an interactive exploratory interface.\n\n\nWe present BioJS-HGV Viewer, a BioJS component to represent and visualize genetic variants pooled from different sources. The tool displays sequences and variants at different levels of detail, facilitating representation of variant sites and annotations in a user friendly and interactive manner. \n\nSource code for BioJS-HGV Viewer is available at: https://github.com/saketkc/biojs-genetic-variation-viewer\n\n\nA demo is available at: http://saketkc.github.io/biojs-genetic-variation-viewer", u"As with reproductive genes generally, we expect a faster evolution of plant pollen genes compared to sporophytic genes. Haploid expression in pollen leads to advantageous and deleterious alleles not being masked by a dominant homologue. A combination of haploid expression and pollen competition have been suggested as being responsible for stronger purifying and positive selection on pollen genes. However, it is unlikely that this mechanism is so straightforward in the model plant species Arabidopsis thaliana. Since becoming self-compatible roughly 1 MYA high selfing rates have caused high homozygosity levels which in turn can be expected to reduce pollen competition and the effect of masking in diploid expressed, sporophytic genes. In this study we investigated the relative strength of selection on pollen genes compared to sporophytic genes in A. thaliana. We were especially interested in comparing ancestral selection patterns when A. thaliana was an obligate outcrosser with more recent selection patterns since the plant's loss of self-incompatibility. We present two major findings: 1) before becoming self-compatible both positive and purifying selection was stronger on pollen genes than sporophytic genes for A. thaliana; 2) an apparent shift in selection efficacy has taken place since A. thaliana became self-compatible. We present evidence which indicates that selection on pollen genes has become more relaxed and has led to higher polymorphism levels and a higher build-up of deleterious mutations in pollen genes compared to sporophytic genes.", u'Light is an essential resource for photosynthesis. Limitation of light by shade from plant neighbors can induce a light competition program known as the shade avoidance response (SAR), thereby altering plant growth and development for the sake of survival. Natural genetic variation in SAR is found in plants adapted to distinct environments, including domesticated tomato Solanum lycopersicum and its wild relative Solanum pennellii. QTL mapping was used to examine variation of the SAR between these two species. We found organ specific responses in the elongation of the stem and petiole, including developmental acceleration of growth. Through RNAseq analysis we identified a number of ILs with reduced expression of auxin-related genes in shade treatment. These same ILs display a shade tolerant phenotype in stem growth and overall height. We also identified ILs with altered SAR expression of cell wall expansion genes, although these genotypes had no accompanying alteration in phenotype. Examination of weighted gene co-expression connectivity networks in sun- and shade-treated plants revealed connectivity changes in auxin and light signaling genes; this result was supported by the identification of motifs within the promoters of a subset of shade-responsive genes that were enriched in light signaling, developmental pathways, and auxin responsive transcriptional domains. The identification of both systemic and organ-specific shade tolerance in the ILs, as well as associated changes in the transcriptome, has the potential to inform future studies for breeding plants able to be grown closely (while neighbor-shaded), yet still maintaining high yield.', u'Embryogenesis is an extraordinarily robust process, exhibiting the ability to control tissue size and repair patterning defects in the face of environmental and genetic perturbations. The size and shape of a developing tissue is a function of the number and size of its constituent cells as well as their geometric packing. How these cellular properties are coordinated at the tissue level to ensure developmental robustness remains a mystery; understanding this process requires studying multiple concurrent processes that make up morphogenesis, including the spatial patterning of cell fates and apoptosis, as well as cell intercalations. In this work, we develop a computational model that aims to understand aspects of the robust pattern repair mechanisms of the Drosophila embryonic epidermal tissues. Size control in this system has previously been shown to rely on the regulation of apoptosis rather than proliferation; however, to date little work has been done to understand the role of cellular mechanics in this process. We employ a vertex model of an embryonic segment to test hypotheses about the emergence of this size control. Comparing the model to previously published data across wild type and genetic perturbations, we show that passive mechanical forces suffice to explain the observed size control in the posterior (P) compartment of a segment. However, observed asymmetries in cell death frequencies across the segment are demonstrated to require patterning of cellular properties in the model. Finally, we show that distinct forms of mechanical regulation in the model may be distinguished by differences in cell shapes in the P compartment, as quantified through experimentally accessible summary statistics, as well as by the tissue recoil after laser ablation experiments.', u'Animals rely on highly sensitive thermoreceptors to seek out optimal temperatures, but the molecular mechanisms of thermosensing are not well understood. The Dorsal Organ Cool Cells (DOCCs) of the Drosophila larva are a set of exceptionally thermosensitive neurons critical for larval cool avoidance. Here we show that DOCC cool-sensing is mediated by Ionotropic Receptors (IRs), a family of sensory receptors widely studied in invertebrate chemical sensing. We find that two IRs, IR21a and IR25a, are required to mediate DOCC responses to cooling and are required for cool avoidance behavior. Furthermore, we find that ectopic expression of IR21a can confer cool-responsiveness in an Ir25a-dependent manner, suggesting an instructive role for IR21a in thermosensing. Together, these data show that IR family receptors can function together to mediate thermosensation of exquisite sensitivity.', u"Genome-wide Association Studies (GWAS) result in millions of summary statistics (``z-scores'') for single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) associations with phenotypes. These rich datasets afford deep insights into the nature and extent of genetic contributions to complex phenotypes such as psychiatric disorders, which are understood to have substantial genetic components that arise from very large numbers of SNPs. The complexity of the datasets, however, poses a significant challenge to maximizing their utility. This is reflected in a need for better understanding the landscape of z-scores, as such knowledge would enhance causal SNP and gene discovery, help elucidate mechanistic pathways, and inform future study design. Here we present a parsimonious methodology for modeling effect sizes and replication probabilities that does not require raw genotype data, relying only on summary statistics from GWAS substudies, and a scheme allowing for direct empirical validation. We show that modeling z-scores as a mixture of Gaussians is conceptually appropriate, in particular taking into account ubiquitous non-null effects that are likely in the datasets due to weak linkage disequilibrium with causal SNPs. The four-parameter model allows for estimating the degree of polygenicity of the phenotype -- the proportion of SNPs (after uniform pruning, so that large LD blocks are not over-represented) likely to be in strong LD with causal/mechanistically associated SNPs -- and predicting the proportion of chip heritability explainable by genome wide significant SNPs in future studies with larger sample sizes. We apply the model to recent GWAS of schizophrenia (N=82,315) and additionally, for purposes of illustration, putamen volume (N=12,596), with approximately 9.3 million SNP z-scores in both cases. We show that, over a broad range of z-scores and sample sizes, the model accurately predicts expectation estimates of true effect sizes and replication probabilities in multistage GWAS designs. We estimate the degree to which effect sizes are over-estimated when based on linear regression association coefficients. We estimate the polygenicity of schizophrenia to be 0.037 and the putamen to be 0.001, while the respective sample sizes required to approach fully explaining the chip heritability are 106 and 105. The model can be extended to incorporate prior knowledge such as pleiotropy and SNP annotation. The current findings suggest that the model is applicable to a broad array of complex phenotypes and will enhance understanding of their genetic architectures.", u'Determining residue level protein properties, such as the sites for post-translational modifications (PTMs) are vital to understanding proteins at all levels of function. Experimental methods are costly and time-consuming, thus high confidence predictions become essential for functional knowledge at a genomic scale. Traditional computational methods based on strict rules (e.g. regular expressions) fail to annotate sites that lack substantial similarity. Thus, Machine Learning (ML) methods become fundamental in annotating proteins with unknown function. We present ASAP (Amino-acid Sequence Annotation Prediction), a universal ML framework for residue-level predictions. ASAP extracts efficiently and fast large set of window-based features from raw sequences. The platform also supports easy integration of external features such as secondary structure or PSSM profiles. The features are then combined to train underlying ML classifiers. We present a detailed case study for ASAP that was used to train CleavePred, a state-of-the-art protein precursor cleavage sites predictor. Protein cleavage is a fundamental PTM shared by a wide variety of protein groups with minimal sequence similarity. Current computational methods have high false positive rates, making them suboptimal for this task. CleavePred has a simple Python API, and is freely accessible via a web- based application. The high performance of ASAP toward the task of precursor cleavage is suited for analyzing new proteomes at a genomic scale. The tool is attractive to protein design, mass spectrometry search engines and the discovery of new peptide hormones. In summary, we illustrate ASAP as an entry point for predicting PTMs. The approach and flexibility of the platform can easily be extended for additional residue specific tasks. \nASAP and CleavePred source code available at https://github.com/ddofer/asap.', u'In the age of genome-scale DNA sequencing, choice of molecular marker arguably remains an important decision in planning a phylogenetic study. Using published genomes from 23 primate species, we make a standardized comparison of four of the most frequently used protocols in phylogenomics, viz., targeted sequence-enrichment using ultraconserved element and exon-capture probes, and reduced genomic representation using restriction-site-associated DNA sequencing (RADseq and ddRADseq). Here we present a procedure to perform in silico extractions from genomes and create directly comparable datasets for each class of marker. We then compare these datasets in terms of both phylogenetic resolution and ability to consistently and precisely estimate clade ages using fossil-calibrated molecular-clock models. Furthermore, we were also able to directly compare these results to previously published datasets from Sanger-sequenced nuclear exons and mitochondrial genomes under the same analytical conditions. Our results show---although with the exception of the mitochondrial genome and ddRADseq datasets---that for uncontroversial nodes all data classes performed equally well, i.e. they recovered the same well supported topology. However, for one difficult-to-resolve node comprising a rapid diversification (subfamilial relationships among the Cebidae), we report well supported but conflicting topologies among the marker classes, likely the result of mismodelling of gene tree heterogeneity. Likewise, clade age estimates showed consistent discrepancies between datasets; for recent nodes, clade ages estimated by nuclear exon datasets were younger than those of the UCE, RAD and mitochondrial data, but vice versa for the deepest nodes in the primate phylogeny. This effect can be explained by temporal differences in phylogenetic informativeness and choice of clock model used. Finally, we conclude by emphasizing that while huge numbers of loci are probably not required for uncontroversial phylogenetic questions---for which practical considerations such as cost and ease of data generation/sharing/aggregating therefore become increasingly important---accurately modelling heterogeneous data remains as relevant as ever for the more recalcitrant problems.', u'The physical principles underlying the biomechanics of morphogenetic processes are largely unknown. Epiboly is an essential embryonic event in which three distinct tissues coordinate to direct the expansion of the blastoderm. How and where forces are generated during epiboly and how these are globally coupled remains elusive. Here we first develop a method, Hydrodynamic Regression (HR), to infer 3D dynamic pressure fields, mechanical power densities and cortical surface tension profiles within living organisms. HR is based on velocity measurements retrieved from 2D+T microscopy time-lapses and their hydrodynamic modeling. We then applied this method to identify biomechanically active structures during epiboly in the zebrafish and the changes in the distribution of cortex local tension as epiboly progresses. Based on these results, we propose a novel simple physical description for epiboly, where tissue movements are directed by a polarized gradient of cortical tension. We found that this tensional gradient relies on local contractile forces at the cortex, differences in the elastic properties of cortex components and force passive transmission within the incompressible yolk cell. All in all, our work identifies a novel way to physically regulate concerted cellular movements that will be fundamental for the mechanical control of many morphogenetic processes.', u'Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD) are clinically and genetically heterogeneous. Nevertheless, a characteristic gene expression signature in postmortem cortex is shared across most ASD cases. Knowing whether this signature reflects changes in cells of particular types would help to determine the molecular, cellular, and anatomical etiology of ASD. To investigate we took advantage of cell type marker genes defined by recent single cell transcriptome sequencing from mouse or human cortex. We find that microglial markers showed significantly and substantially higher median expression in postmortem ASD than in control cortex for both mouse and human markers (21% higher for orthologous markers defined in mouse; 93% higher for human markers). In contrast, neuronal markers showed reduced median expression: 12% and 16% lower for mouse interneurons and pyramidal neurons, 40% lower for human neurons, and 36% lower for a class of human excitatory projection neurons. Cell type density alterations in ASD brains are indicated because distributions of these cell type markers are shifted concordantly. Importantly, orthologous mouse neuronal marker genes encoding proteins localized to diverse neuronal compartments all showed reduced median expression in ASD. Our results provide a framework for revealing the basis of transcriptomic differences in ASD. We propose comparing cell type density alterations in post-mortem tissue with and without these distinctive gene expression changes to reconcile results from stereological and transcriptomic studies.', u"The feedback-related negativity (FRN) is a commonly observed potential in scalp electroencephalography (EEG) studies related to the valence of feedback about a subject's performance. This potential classically manifests as a negative deflection in medial frontocentral EEG contacts following negative feedback. Recent work has shown prominence of theta power in the spectral composition of the FRN, placing it within the larger class of 'frontal midline theta' cognitive control signals. Although the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (dACC) is thought to be the cortical generator of the FRN, conclusive data regarding its origin and propagation are lacking. Here we examine intracranial electrophysiology from the human medial and lateral prefrontal cortex (PFC) in order to better understand the anatomical localization and communication patterns of the FRN. We show that the FRN is evident in both low- and high-frequency local field potentials (LFPs) recorded on electrocorticography. The FRN is larger in medial compared to lateral PFC, and coupling between theta band phase and high frequency LFP power is also greater in medial PFC. Using Granger causality and conditional mutual information analyses, we provide evidence that feedback-related information propagates from medial to lateral PFC, and that this information transfer oscillates with theta-range periodicity. These results provide evidence for the dACC as the cortical source of the FRN, provide insight into the local computation of frontal midline theta, and have implications for reinforcement learning models of cognitive control.", u'Damage to Drosophila melanogaster imaginal discs activates a regeneration checkpoint that 1) extends larval development and 2) coordinates the regeneration of the damaged disc with the growth of undamaged discs. These two systemic responses to damage are both mediated by Dilp8, a member of the insulin/IGF/relaxin family of peptide hormones, which is released by regenerating imaginal discs. Growth coordination between regenerating and undamaged imaginal discs is dependent on Dilp8 activation of NOS in the prothoracic gland (PG), which slows the growth of undamaged discs by limiting ecdysone synthesis. Here we demonstrate that the Drosophila relaxin receptor homologue Lgr3, a leucine-rich repeat-containing G-protein coupled receptor, is required for Dilp8-dependent growth coordination and developmental delay during the regeneration checkpoint. Lgr3 regulates these responses to damage via distinct mechanisms in different tissues. Using tissue-specific RNAi disruption of Lgr3 expression, we show that Lgr3 functions in the PG upstream of nitric oxide synthase (NOS), and is necessary for NOS activation and growth coordination during the regeneration checkpoint. When Lgr3 is depleted from neurons, imaginal disc damage no longer produces either developmental delay or growth inhibition. To reconcile these discrete tissue requirements for Lgr3 during regenerative growth coordination, we demonstrate that Lgr3 activity in the both the CNS and PG is necessary for NOS activation in the PG following damage. Together, these results identify new roles for a relaxin receptor in mediating damage signaling to regulate growth and developmental timing.', u'In all populations, as the time runs, crossovers break apart ancestor haplotypes, forming smaller blocks at each generation. Some blocks, and eventually all of them, become identical by descent because of the genetic drift. We have in this paper developed and benchmarked a theoretical prediction of the mean length of such blocks and used it to study a simple population model assuming panmixia, no selfing and drift as the only evolutionary pressure. Besides, we have on the one hand derived, for any user defined error threshold, the range of the parameters this prediction is reliable for, and on the other hand shown that the mean length remains constant over time in ideally large populations.', u'Locomotor recovery from anoxia follows the restoration of disordered ion distributions and neuronal excitability. The time taken for locomotor recovery after 30 s anoxia (around 10 min) is longer than the time for the propagation of action potentials to be restored (less than 1 min) in Drosophila wild-type. We report here that the white (w) gene modulates the timing of locomotor recovery. Wild-type flies displayed fast and consistent recovery of locomotion from anoxia, whereas mutants of w showed significantly delayed recovery. Genetic analysis including serial backcrossing revealed a strong association between the w locus and the timing of locomotor recovery, and haplo-insufficient function of w+ in promoting fast locomotor recovery. The locomotor recovery phenotype was independent of classic eye pigmentation, although both are associated with the w gene. Introducing up to four copies of mini-white (mw+) into w1118 was insufficient to promote fast and consistent locomotor recovery. However, flies carrying w+ duplicated to Y chromosome showed wild-type-like fast locomotor recovery. Furthermore, RNAi knockdown of w in neurons but not glia delayed locomotor recovery, and specifically, knockdown of w in putative subsets of serotonin neurons was sufficient to delay the locomotor recovery. These data reveal an additional role for w in modulating the timing of locomotor recovery from anoxia.', u'Hybridization between humans and Neanderthals has resulted in a low level of Neanderthal ancestry scattered across the genomes of many modern-day humans. After hybridization, on average, selection appears to have removed Neanderthal alleles from the human population. Quantifying the strength and causes of this selection against Neanderthal ancestry is key to understanding our relationship to Neanderthals and, more broadly, how populations remain distinct after secondary contact. Here, we develop a novel method for estimating the genome-wide average strength of selection and the density of selected sites using estimates of Neanderthal allele frequency along the genomes of modern-day humans. We confirm that East Asians had somewhat higher initial levels of Neanderthal ancestry than Europeans even after accounting for selection. We find that the bulk of purifying selection against Neanderthal ancestry is best understood as acting on many weakly deleterious alleles. We propose that the majority of these alleles were effectively neutral---and segregating at high frequency---in Neanderthals, but became selected against after entering human populations of much larger effective size. While individually of small effect, these alleles potentially imposed a heavy genetic load on the early-generation human--Neanderthal hybrids. This work suggests that differences in effective population size may play a far more important role in shaping levels of introgression than previously thought.', u'While identifying routes of transmission during an infectious disease outbreak was traditionally conducted through exhaustive contact tracing efforts, the increasing availability of pathogen sequencing has provided a new resource with which one can identify plausible routes of infection. However, while transmission clusters can be identified using single genome sequences, individual transmission routes remain relatively uncertain. Deep sequence data may provide additional information where single genomes lack sufficient resolution - presence of shared minor variants can suggest epidemiological linkage when observed between multiple hosts. In this study we formalize shared variant methods to reconstruct the transmission tree in an outbreak, and using simulated outbreak data, we quantify the improved accuracy when compared with analogous single genome approaches. Furthermore we propose a hybrid approach, drawing information from both deep sequence and single genome data. Our simulation studies demonstrate the superior performance of transmission tree identification methods using shared variants in most settings. Application of these methods to deep sequence data collected during the 2014 Sierra Leone Ebola epidemic demonstrates the ability to identify plausible transmission routes without any additional data. The methods we describe should become a common step in outbreak investigations and epidemiological analyses once the collection of deep sequence data becomes increasingly widespread.', u'Recent advances in Web technology and information sciences, especially the development of knowledge representation systems---ontology languages (Web Ontology Language) and syntaxes (Manchester syntax)---are now infiltrating the world of insect biodiversity research. Data generated from taxonomic revisions, comparative morphology studies, and other enterprises now have the potential to be shared broadly and to be computed across---i.e., they are rendered semantic---in order to address questions relevant to multiple domains in the life sciences. In this chapter we describe the philosophy behind these new tools, the mechanisms by which they operate, and the real and future benefits of the semantic representation of phenotype data (e.g., standardization of terminology). We provide examples using real data and describe some limitations of semantic phenotype annotations.', u'We have previously established two lines of rat for studying the functional basis of aerobic exercise capacity (AEC) and its impact on metabolic health. The two lines, high capacity runners (HCR) and low capacity runners (LCR), have been selectively bred for high and low intrinsic AEC, respectively. They were started from the same genetically heterogeneous population and have now diverged in both AEC and many other physiological measures, including weight, body composition, blood pressure, body mass index, lung capacity, lipid and glucose metabolism, and natural life span. In order to exploit this rat model to understand the genomic regions under differential selection within the two lines, we used SNP genotype and whole genome pooled sequencing data to identify signatures of selection using three different statistics: runs of homozygosity, fixation index, and aberrant allele frequency spectrum, and developed a composite score that combined the three signals. We found that several pathways (ATP transport and fatty acid metabolism) are enriched in regions under differential selection. The candidate genes and pathways under selection will be integrated with the previous mRNA expression data and future F2 QTL results for a multi-omics approach to understanding the biological basis of AEC and metabolic traits.', u'We investigate the properties of the recently proposed "shotgun" sampling approach for the common inputs problem in the functional estimation of neuronal connectivity. We study the asymptotic correctness, the speed of convergence, and the data size requirements of such an approach. We find that the shotgun approach can be expected to allow the inference of the complete connectivity matrix in large neuronal populations under some rather general conditions. However, we find that the posterior error of the shotgun connectivity estimator may grow quickly with the size of the unobserved neuronal populations, the connectivity strength, and the square of the observations\' sparseness. This implies that the shotgun connectivity estimation will require significant amounts of neuronal activity data whenever the number of neurons in the observed populations is small. We present a numerical approach for solving the shotgun estimation problem in general settings and use it to demonstrate the shotgun connectivity inference in simulated synfire and weakly coupled cortical neuronal networks.', u'Background: Inferring gene networks from high-throughput data constitutes an\nimportant step in the discovery of relevant regulatory relationships in organism\ncells. Despite the large number of available Gene Regulatory Network inference\nmethods, the problem remains challenging: the underdetermination in the space\nof possible solutions requires additional constraints that incorporate a priori\ninformation on gene interactions.\n\nMethods: Weighting all possible pairwise gene relationships by a probability of\nedge presence, we formulate the regulatory network inference as a discrete\nvariational problem on graphs. We enforce biologically plausible coupling between\ngroups and types of genes by minimizing an edge labeling functional coding for a\npriori structures. The optimization is carried out with Graph cuts, an approach\npopular in image processing and computer vision. We compare the inferred\nregulatory networks to results achieved by the mutual-information-based Context\nLikelihood of Relatedness (CLR) method and by the state-of-the-art GENIE3,\nwinner of the DREAM4 multifactorial challenge.\n\nResults: Our BRANE Cut approach infers more accurately the five DREAM4 in\nsilico networks (with improvements from 6% to 11%). On a real Escherichia coli\ncompendium, an improvement of 11.8% compared to CLR and 3% compared to\nGENIE3 is obtained in terms of Area Under Precision-Recall curve. Up to 48\nadditional verified interactions are obtained over GENIE3 for a given precision.\nOn this dataset involving 4345 genes, our method achieves a performance similar\nto that of GENIE3, while being more than seven times faster. The BRANE Cut\ncode is available at:\nhttp://www-syscom.univ-mlv.fr/~pirayre/Codes-GRN-BRANE-cut.html\n\nConclusions: BRANE Cut is a weighted graph thresholding method. Using\nbiologically sound penalties and data-driven parameters, it improves three\nstate-of-the-art GRN inference methods. It is applicable as a generic network\ninference post-processing, due its computational efficiency.', u'Despite the central role of alternative sigma factors in bacterial stress response and virulence their regulation remains poorly understood. Here we investigate one of best-studied examples of alternative sigma factors: the \u03c3B network that controls the general stress response of Bacillus subtilis to uncover widely relevant general design principles  that describe the structure-function relationship of alternative sigma factor regulatory networks. We show that the relative stoichiometry of the synthesis rates of \u03c3B, its anti-sigma factor RsbW and the anti-anti-sigma factor RsbV, plays a critical role in shaping the network behavior by forcing the \u03c3B network to function as an ultrasensitive negative feedback loop. We further demonstrate how this type of negative feedback regulation insulates alternative sigma factor activity from competition with the housekeeping sigma factor for RNA polymerase and allows multiple stress sigma factors to function simultaneously with little competitive interference.', u'Background: With widespread adoption of next-generation sequencing (NGS) technologies, the need has arisen for a broadly applicable method to remove unwanted high-abundance species prior to sequencing. We introduce DASH (Depletion of Abundant Sequences by Hybridization), a facile technique for targeted depletion of undesired sequences.\nResults: Sequencing libraries are DASHed with recombinant Cas9 protein complexed with a library of single guide RNAs (sgRNAs) programmed to target unwanted species for cleavage, thus preventing\nthem from consuming sequencing space. We demonstrate up to 99% reduction of mitochondrial ribosomal RNA (rRNA) in HeLa cells, and enrichment of pathogen sequences up to 4-fold in metagenomic samples from patients with infectious diseases. Similarly, we demonstrate the utility of DASH in the context of cancer diagnostics by significantly increasing the detectable fraction of KRAS mutant sequences over the predominant wild-type allele.\nConclusion: This simple single-tube method is reprogrammable for virtually any sample type to increase sequencing yield without additional cost.\n[Note: Wei Gu and Emily Crawford contributed equally to this work.]', u'Applying highly sensitive modern immune profiling techniques to the blood or inflamed tissue of auto-immune patients with one of the common T-cell mediated diseases fails to detect large clonal expansions or other signs of a dysregulated immune system.  Additionally, these new methods have shown that self-reactive T-cells are found in the periphery (and are not completely negatively selected in the thymus as previously believed).  Combining these new data with well-established studies in auto-immunity leads to the conjecture that certain auto-immune diseases are likely to be caused by defects in tissue, not by dysregulation of the adaptive immune system.  In particular, one hypothesis is that specific tissues up-regulate HLA class 2 genes, presenting epitopes that are bound by CD4+ helper T cells, which facilitates an immune response against the tissue specific cells.', u'A number of recent accounts have described Homo\nsapiens as a species that practices cooperative breeding [e.g., Hill and Hurtado (2009); Hrdy (2009); Kramer (2010); Mace and Sear (2005); van Schaik and Burkart (2010)]. These claims raise two important questions: first, do humans in general, or humans under a specific set of conditions, exhibit behaviors conforming to the technical definition of cooperative breeding? And second, to what extent are patterns of behavior and reproduction in humans similar to, or distinct from those found in non-human animals that are classified as cooperative breeders?\n\nThe goal of this brief communication is to report cross-cultural data with relevance to researchers studying cooperative breeding in humans in the context of other non-human mammals. The data are derived from ethnographic\nresearch in 4 small-scale human populations.', u'A powerful way to detect selection in a population is by modeling local allele frequency changes in a particular region of the genome under scenarios of selection and neutrality, and finding which model is most compatible with the data. Chen et al. (2010) developed a composite likelihood method called XP-CLR that uses an outgroup population to detect departures from neutrality which could be compatible with hard or soft sweeps, at linked sites near a beneficial allele. However, this method is most sensitive to recent selection and may miss selective events that happened a long time ago. To overcome this, we developed an extension of XP-CLR that jointly models the behavior of a selected allele in a three-population tree. Our method - called 3P-CLR - outperforms XP-CLR when testing for selection that occurred before two populations split from each other, and can distinguish between those events and events that occurred specifically in each of the populations after the split. We applied our new test to population genomic data from the 1000 Genomes Project, to search for selective sweeps that occurred before the split of Yoruba and Eurasians, but after their split from Neanderthals, and that could have led to the spread of modern-human-specific phenotypes. We also searched for sweep events that occurred in East Asians, Europeans and the ancestors of both populations, after their split from Yoruba. In both cases, we are able to confirm a number of regions identified by previous methods, and find several new candidates for selection in recent and ancient times. For some of these, we also find suggestive functional mutations that may have driven the selective events.', u'State-based Cormack-Jolly-Seber (CJS) models have become an often used method for assessing states or conditions of free ranging animals through time. Although originally envisioned to account for differences in survival and observation processes when animals are moving though various geographical strata, it has evolved to model vital rates in different life-history or diseased states. We further extend this useful class of models to the case of multivariate state data. Researchers can record values of several different states of interest, e.g., geographic location and reproductive state. Traditionally, these would be aggregated into one state with a single probability of state uncertainty. However, by modeling states as a multivariate vector, one can account for partial knowledge of the vector as well as dependence between the state variables in a parsimonious way. A hidden Markov model formulation allows straightforward maximum likelihood inference. The proposed HMM models are demonstrated with a case study using data from a California sea lion vital rates study.', u'Disrupted in Schizophrenia1 (DISC1) is known as a high susceptibility gene of schizophrenia. More recent studies have connected schizophrenia with glia defects and dysfunction. However, it is unclear whether there is connection between DISC1 and gliogenesis defect. Thus, a precise understanding of DISC1 (a ubiquitously expressed brain protein) on astrogenesis in the late stage of embryonic mouse brain development needs to be deeply investigated. Here, we show that suppression of DISC1 expression represses astrogenesis in vitro and in vivo, whereas DISC1 overexpression substantially enhances the process. Furthermore, mouse and human DISC1 overexpression rescued astrogenesis defects caused by DISC1 knowndown. Mechanistically, DISC1 activates downstream RAS/MEK/ERK signaling pathway via directly associating with the C terminal domain of RASSF7, a RAS association protein. Also, the pERK complex undergoes nuclear translocation and influences the expression of genes related to astrogenesis. Briefly, our results demonstrate that DISC1 regulates astrogenesis by modulating RAS/MEK/ERK signaling via RASSF7 and provide a framework for understanding how DISC1 dysfunction leads to disease pathology and may contribute to the neuropsychiatric diseases.', u'Next-generation sequencing is increasingly being used to examine closely related organisms. However, while genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) provide an excellent resource for phylogenetic reconstruction, to date evolutionary analyses have been performed using different ad hoc methods that are not often widely applicable across different projects.  To facilitate the construction of robust phylogenies, we have developed a method for genome-wide identification/characterization of SNPs from sequencing reads and genome assemblies. Our phylogenetic and molecular evolutionary (PhaME) analysis software is unique in its ability to take reads and draft/complete genome(s) as input, derive core genome alignments, identify SNPs, construct phylogenies and perform evolutionary analyses. Several examples using genomes and read datasets for bacterial, eukaryotic and viral linages demonstrate the broad and robust functionality of PhaME. Furthermore, the ability to incorporate raw metagenomic reads from clinical samples with suspected infectious agents shows promise for the rapid phylogenetic characterization of pathogens within complex samples.', u'Rust fungal pathogens of wheat (Triticum spp.) affect crop yields worldwide. The molecular mechanisms underlying the virulence of these pathogens remain elusive, due to the limited availability of suitable molecular genetic research tools. Notably, the inability to perform high-throughput analyses of candidate virulence proteins (also known as effectors) impairs progress. We previously established a pipeline for the fast-forward screens of rust fungal effectors in the model plant Nicotiana benthamiana. This pipeline involves selecting candidate effectors in silico and performing cell biology and protein-protein interaction assays in planta to gain insight into the putative functions of candidate effectors. In this study, we used this pipeline to identify and characterize sixteen candidate effectors from the wheat yellow rust fungal pathogen Puccinia striiformis f sp tritici. Nine candidate effectors targeted a specific plant subcellular compartment or protein complex, providing valuable information on their putative functions in plant cells. One candidate effector, PST02549, accumulated in processing bodies (P-bodies), protein complexes involved in mRNA decapping, degradation, and storage. PST02549 also associates with the P-body-resident ENHANCER OF mRNA DECAPPING PROTEIN 4 (EDC4) from N. benthamiana and wheat. Our work identifies P-bodies as a novel plant cell compartment targeted by pathogen effectors.', u'Open biological data is distributed over many resources making it challenging to integrate, to update and to disseminate quickly. Wikidata is a growing, open community database which can serve this purpose and also provides tight integration with Wikipedia.\nIn order to improve the state of biological data, facilitate data management and dissemination, we imported all human and mouse genes, and all human and mouse proteins into Wikidata. In total, 59,530 human genes and 73,130 mouse genes have been imported from NCBI and 27,662 human proteins and 16,728 mouse proteins have been imported from the Swissprot subset of UniProt. As Wikidata is open and can be edited by anybody, our corpus of imported data serves as the starting point for integration of further data by scientists, the Wikidata community and citizen scientists alike. The first use case for this data is to populate Wikipedia Gene Wiki infoboxes directly from Wikidata with the data integrated above. This enables immediate updates of the Gene Wiki infoboxes as soon as the data in Wikidata is modified. Although Gene Wiki pages are currently only on the English language version of Wikipedia, the multilingual nature of Wikidata allows for a usage of the data we imported in all 280 different language Wikipedias. Apart from the Gene Wiki infobox use case, a powerful SPARQL endpoint and up to date exporting functionality (e.g. JSON, XML) enable very convenient further use of the data by scientists.\nIn summary, we created a fully open and extensible data resource for human and mouse molecular biology and biochemistry data.  This resource enriches all the Wikipedias with structured information and serves as a new linking hub for the biological semantic web.', u"Background\nPlant meristems are analogous to animal stem cell niches as they maintain a pool of undifferentiated cells that divide and differentiate to give rise to organs. The carpel margin meristem is a vital, multi-potent structure located in the medial domain of the Arabidopsis thaliana gynoecium, the female floral reproductive organ. The carpel margin meristem generates ovules that upon fertilization become seeds. The molecular mechanisms that specify this meristematic region and regulate its organogenic potential are poorly understood. Here, we present an analysis of the transcriptional profile of the medial domain of the Arabidopsis gynoecium highlighting the developmental stages that immediately proceed ovule initiation, the earliest stages of seed development. \n\nResults \nUsing a floral synchronization system and a SHATTERPROOF2 domain-specific reporter, paired with fluorescence-activated cell sorting and RNA sequencing, we assayed the transcriptome of the gynoecial medial domain with temporal and spatial precision. This analysis reveals a set of genes that are differentially expressed within the SHATTERPROOF2 expression domain that marks portions of the developing medial domain. Many members of this gene set have been shown previously to function during the development of medial domain-derived structures, including the ovules, thus validating our approach. Other uncharacterized members including differentially expressed cis-natural antisense transcripts, are potential novel regulators of medial domain development. Members of the REPRODUCTIVE MERISTEM (REM) family of transcriptional regulators were enriched in the SHATTERPROOF2-expressing cell population including a previously unrecognized REM family member. Finally, the analysis transcriptional isoforms in the medial domain identified genes that may exhibit 'isoform switching' behavior during gynoecial development.\n\nConclusions\nThis data set provides genome-wide transcriptional insight into the development of the gynoecial medial domain that contains the carpel margin meristem, a vital reproductive structure that gives rise to the ovules in Arabidopsis thaliana.", u'Gal3p is an allosteric monomeric protein which activates the GAL genetic switch of Saccharomyces cerevisiae in response to galactose. Expression of constitutive mutant of Gal3p or over-expression of wild-type Gal3p activates the GAL switch in the absence of galactose. These data suggest that Gal3p exists as an ensemble of active and inactive conformations. Structural data has indicated that Gal3p exists in open (inactive) and closed (active) conformations. However, mutant of Gal3p that predominantly exists in inactive conformation and yet capable of responding to galactose has not been isolated. To understand the mechanism of allosteric transition, we have isolated a triple mutant of Gal3p with V273I, T404A and N450D substitutions which upon over-expression fails to activate the GAL switch on its own, but activates the switch in response to galactose. Over-expression of Gal3p mutants with single or double mutations in any of the three combinations failed to exhibit the behavior of the triple mutant. Molecular dynamics analysis of the wild-type and the triple mutant along with two previously reported constitutive mutants suggests that the wild-type Gal3p may also exist in super-open conformation. Further, our results suggest that the dynamics of residue F237 situated in the hydrophobic pocket located in the hinge region drives the transition between different conformations. Based on our study and what is known in human glucokinase, we suggest that the above mechanism could be a general theme in causing the allosteric transition.', u'Motivation: Technological advances in medicine have led to a rapid proliferation of high-throughput "omics" data. Tools to mine this data and discover disrupted disease networks are needed as they hold the key to understanding complicated interactions between genes, mutations and aberrations, and epi-genetic markers.\nResults: We developed an R software package, XMRF, that can be used to fit Markov Networks to various types of high-throughput genomics data. Encoding the models and estimation techniques of the recently proposed exponential family Markov Random Fields (Yang et al., 2012), our software can be used to learn genetic networks from RNA-sequencing data (counts via Poisson graphical models), mutation and copy number variation data (categorical via Ising models), and methylation data (continuous via Gaussian graphical models).\nAvailability: XMRF is available from the CRAN Project and Github at: https://github.com/zhandong/XMRF', u'The lipopolysaccharide (O) and flagellar (H) surface antigens of Escherichia coli are targets for serotyping that have traditionally been used to identify pathogenic lineages of E. coli. As serotyping has several limitations, public health reference laboratories are increasingly moving towards whole genome sequencing (WGS) for the rapid characterisation of bacterial isolates. Here we present a method to rapidly and accurately serotype E. coli isolates from raw, short read sequence data, leveraging the known genetic basis for the biosynthesis of O- and H-antigens. Our approach bypasses the need for de novo genome assembly by directly screening WGS reads against a curated database of alleles linked to known E. coli O-groups and H-types (the EcOH database) using the software package SRST2. We validated our approach by comparing in silico results with those obtained via serological phenotyping of 197 enteropathogenic (EPEC) isolates. We also demonstrated the utility of our method to characterise enterotoxigenic E. coli (ETEC) and the uropathogenic E. coli (UPEC) epidemic clone ST131, and for in silico serotyping of foodborne outbreak-related isolates in the public GenomeTrakr database.', u'Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a major cause of chronic infections in cystic fibrosis patients. The nucleotidyl cyclase toxin ExoY is a virulence factors injected by the pathogen and associated with severe damage to lung tissue. ExoY-like cyclases are also found in other Gram-negative pathogens and shown to contribute to virulence, although they remained poorly characterized. Here we demonstrate that filamentous actin (F-actin) is the hitherto unknown co-factor that activates P. aeruginosa ExoY within host target cells. Highly purified actin, when polymerized into filaments, potently stimulates (>10,000 fold) ExoY activity. ExoY co-localizes in vivo with actin filaments in transfected cells and, in vitro, it interferes with the regulation of actin assembly/disassembly-dynamics mediated by important F-actin-binding proteins. We further show that actin also activates an ExoY-like adenylate cyclase from a Vibrio species. Our results thus highlight a new sub-class within the class II adenylyl cyclase family, defined as actin-activated nucleotidyl cyclase (AA-NC) toxins.', u'Recently, the finding of 8,000 year old wheat DNA from submerged marine sediments (1) was challenged on the basis of a lack of signal of cytosine deamination relative to three other data sets generated from young samples of herbarium and museum specimens, and a 7,000 year old human skeleton preserved in a cave environment (2). The study used a new approach for low coverage data sets to which tools such as mapDamage cannot be applied to infer chemical damage patterns. Here we show from the analysis of 148 palaeogenomic data sets that the rate of cytosine deamination is a thermally correlated process, and that organellar generally shows higher rates of deamination than nuclear DNA in comparable environments. We categorize four clusters of deamination rates (alpha,beta,gamma,epsilon) that are associated with cold stable environments, cool but thermally fluctuating environments, and progressively warmer environments. These correlations show that the expected level of deamination in the sedaDNA would be extremely low. The low coverage approach to detect DNA damage by Weiss et al. (2) fails to identify damage samples from the cold class of deamination rates. Finally, different enzymes used in library preparation processes exhibit varying capability in reporting cytosine deamination damage in the 5 prime region of fragments. The PCR enzyme used in the sedaDNA study would not have had the capability to report 5 prime cytosine deamination, as they do not read over uracil residues, and signatures of damage would have better been sought at the 3 prime end. The 8,000 year old sedaDNA matches both the thermal age prediction of fragmentation, and the expected level of cytosine deamination for the preservation environment. Given these facts and the use of rigorous controls these data meet the criteria of authentic ancient DNA to an extremely stringent level.', u'We apply the statistical framework for genome-wide association studies (GWAS) to eigenvector decomposition (EigenGWAS), which is commonly used in population genetics to characterise the structure of genetic data. We show that loci under selection can be detected in a structured population by using eigenvectors as phenotypes in a single-marker GWAS. We find LCT to be under selection between HapMap CEU-TSI cohorts, a finding that was replicated across European countries in the POPRES samples. HERC2 was also found to be differentiated between both the CEU-TSI cohort and among POPRES samples, reflecting the likely anthropological differences in skin and hair colour between northern and southern European populations. We show that when determining the effect of a SNP on an eigenvector, three methods of single-marker regression of eigenvectors, best linear unbiased prediction of eigenvectors, and singular value decomposition of SNP data are equivalent to each other. We also demonstrate that estimated SNP effects on eigenvectors from a reference panel can be used to predict eigenvectors (the projected eigenvectors) in a target sample with high accuracy, particularly for the primary eigenvectors. Under this GWAS framework, ancestry informative markers and loci under selection can be identified, and population structure can be captured and easily interpreted. We have developed freely available software to facilitate the application of the methods (https://github.com/gc5k/GEAR/wiki/EigenGWAS).', u'For quantitative cancer models to be meaningful and interpretable the number of unknown parameters must be kept minimal. Experimental data can be utilized to calibrate model dynamics rates or rate constants. Proper integration of experimental data, however, depends on the chosen theoretical framework. Using live imaging of cell proliferation as an example, we show how to derive cell cycle distributions in agent-based models and averaged proliferation rates in differential equation models. We focus on a tumor hierarchy of cancer stem and progenitor non-stem cancer cells.', u'In the context of climate change and species invasions, range shifts increasingly gain attention because the rates at which they occur in the Anthropocene induce fast shifts in biological assemblages. During such range shifts, species experience multiple selection pressures. Especially for poleward expansions, a straightforward interpretation of the observed evolutionary dynamics is hampered because of the joint action of evolutionary processes related to spatial selection and to adaptation towards local climatic conditions. To disentangle the effects of these two processes, we integrated stochastic modeling and empirical approaches, using the spider mite Tetranychus urticae as a model species. We demonstrate considerable latitudinal quantitative genetic divergence in life-history traits in T. urticae, that was shaped by both spatial selection and local adaptation. The former mainly affected dispersal behavior, while development was mainly shaped by adaptation to the local climate. Divergence in life-history traits in species shifting their range poleward can consequently be jointly determined by fast local adaptation to the environmental gradient and contemporary evolutionary dynamics resulting from spatial selection. The integration of modeling with common garden experiments provides a powerful tool to study the contribution of these two evolutionary processes on life-history evolution during range expansion.', u'Background\nScaffolding is a crucial step in the genome assembly process. Current methods based on large fragment paired-end reads or long reads allow an increase in continuity but often lack consistency in repetitive regions, resulting in fragmented assemblies. Here, we describe a novel tool to link assemblies to a genome map to aid complex genome reconstruction by detecting assembly errors and allowing scaffold ordering and anchoring. \nResults\nWe present MaGuS (map-guided scaffolding), a modular tool that uses a draft genome assembly, a genome map, and high-throughput paired-end sequencing data to estimate the quality and to enhance the continuity of an assembly. We generated several assemblies of the Arabidopsis genome using different scaffolding programs and applied MaGuS to select the best assembly using quality metrics. Then, we used MaGuS to perform map-guided scaffolding to increase continuity by creating new scaffold links in low-covered and highly repetitive regions where other commonly used scaffolding methods lack consistency.\nConclusions\nMaGuS is a powerful reference-free evaluator of assembly quality and a map-guided scaffolder that is freely available at https://github.com/institut-de-genomique/MaGuS. Its use can be extended to other high-throughput sequencing data (e.g., long-read data) and also to other map data (e.g., genetic maps) to improve the quality and the continuity of large and complex genome assemblies.', u'Multi-scale agent-based models are increasingly used to simulate tumor growth dynamics. Simulating such complex systems is often a great challenge despite large computational power of modern computers and, thus, implementation techniques are becoming as important as the models themselves. Here we show, using a simple agent-based model of tumor growth, how the computational time required for simulation can be decreased by using vectorization techniques. In numerical examples we observed up to 30-fold increases in computation performance when standard approaches were, at least in part, replaced with vectorized routines in MATLAB.', u'Next-generation sequencing of DNA provides an unprecedented opportunity to discover rare genetic variants associated with complex diseases and traits. However, when testing the association between rare variants and traits of interest, the current practice of first calling underlying genotypes and then treating the called values as known is prone to false positive findings, especially when genotyping errors are systematically different between cases and controls. This happens whenever cases and controls are sequenced at different depths or on different platforms. In this article, we provide a likelihood-based approach to testing rare variant associations that directly models sequencing reads without calling genotypes. We consider the (weighted) burden test statistic, which is the (weighted) sum of the score statistic for assessing effects of individual variants on the trait of interest. Because variant locations are unknown, we develop a simple, computationally efficient screening algorithm to estimate the loci that are variants. Because our burden statistic may not have mean zero after screening, we develop a novel bootstrap procedure for assessing the significance of the burden statistic. We demonstrate through extensive simulation studies that the proposed tests are robust to a wide range of differential sequencing qualities between cases and controls, and are at least as powerful as the standard genotype calling approach when the latter controls type I error. An application to the UK10K data reveals novel rare variants in gene BTBD18 associated with childhood onset obesity. The relevant software is freely available.', u'With Next Generation Sequencing Data (NGS) coming off age and being routinely used, evolutionary biology is transforming into a data-driven science.\n\nAs a consequence, researchers have to rely on a growing number of increasingly complex software. All widely used tools in our field have grown considerably, in terms of the number of features as well as lines of code. In addition, analysis pipelines now include substantially more components than 5-10 years ago. \n\nA topic that has received little attention in this context is the code quality of widely used codes. Unfortunately, the majority of users tend to blindly trust software and the results it produces. To this end, we assessed the code quality of 15 highly cited tools (e.g., MrBayes, MAFFT, SweepFinder etc.) from the broader area of evolutionary biology that are used in current data analysis pipelines. \n\nWe also discuss  widely unknown problems associated with floating point arithmetics for representing real numbers on computer systems. Since, the software quality of the tools we analyzed is rather mediocre, we provide a list of best practices for improving the quality of existing tools, but also list techniques that can be deployed for developing reliable, high quality scientific software from scratch. \n\nFinally, we also discuss journal and science policy as well as funding issues that need to be addressed for improving software quality as well as ensuring support for developing new and maintaining existing software. \n\nOur intention is to raise the awareness of the community regarding software quality issues and to emphasize the substantial lack of funding for scientific software development.', u'The movement of resources between terrestrial and aquatic habitats has strong effects on ecological processes in recipient ecosystems. Allochthonous inputs modify the quality and quantity of the available resource pool in ways that may alter the composition and stability of recipient communities. Inputs of terrestrial dissolved organic carbon (tDOC) into aquatic ecosystems represent a large influx of resources that has the potential to affect local communities, especially microorganisms. To evaluate the effects terrestrial inputs on aquatic microbial community composition and stability, we manipulated the supply rate of tDOC to a set of experimental ponds. Along the tDOC supply gradient, we measured changes in diversity and taxon-specific changes in abundance and activity. We then determined community stability by perturbing each pond using a pulse of inorganic nutrients and measuring changes in composition and activity (i.e., responsiveness) along the gradient. Terrestrial DOC supply significantly altered the composition of the active microbial community. The composition of the active bacterial community changed via decreases in richness and evenness as well as taxon-specific changes in abundance and activity indicating species sorting along the gradient. Likewise, the responsiveness of the active bacterial community decreased along the gradient, which led to a more stable active community. We did not, however, observe these changes in diversity and stability in the total community (i.e., active and inactive organisms), which suggests that tDOC supply modifies microbial community stability through functional not structural changes. Together, these results show that altered aquatic terrestrial linkages can have profound effects on the activity and stability of the base of the food web and thus can alter ecosystem functioning.', u'Genome size evolution is a fundamental problem in molecular evolution. Statistical analysis of genome sizes brings new insight into the evolution of genome size. Although the variation of genome sizes is complicated, it is indicated that the genome size evolution can be explained more clearly at taxon level than at species level. I find that the genome size distribution for species in a taxon fits log-normal distribution. And I find a relationship between the phylogeny of life and the statistical features of genome size distributions among taxa. I observed different statistical features of genome size distributions between animal taxa and plant taxa. A log-normal stochastic process model is developed to simulate the genome size evolution. The simulation results on the log-normal distributions of genome sizes and their statistical features agree with the observations.', u'Genes play a central role in all biological processes. DNA microarray technology has made it possible to study the expression behavior of thousands of genes in one go. Often, gene expression data is used to generate features for supervised and unsupervised learning tasks. At the same time, advances in the field of deep learning have made available a plethora of architectures. In this paper, we use deep architectures pre-trained in an unsupervised manner using denoising autoencoders as a preprocessing step for a popular unsupervised learning task. Denoising autoencoders (DA) can be used to learn a compact representation of input, and have been used to generate features for further supervised learning tasks. We propose that our deep architectures can be treated as empirical versions of Deep Belief Networks (DBNs). We use our deep architectures to regenerate gene expression time series data for two different data sets. We test our hypothesis on two popular datasets for the unsupervised learning task of clustering and find promising improvements in performance.', u'Mapping molecular QTLs has emerged as an important tool for understanding the genetic basis of cell functions. With the increasing availability of functional genomic data, it is natural to incorporate genomic annotations into QTL discovery. In this paper, we describe a novel method, named TORUS, for integrative QTL discovery. Using hierarchical modeling, our approach embeds a rigorous enrichment analysis to quantify the enrichment level of each annotation in target QTLs. This enrichment information is then used to identify QTLs by up-weighting the genetic variants with relevant annotations using a Bayesian false discovery rate control procedure. Our proposed method only requires summary-level statistics and is highly efficient computationally: it runs a few hundreds times faster than the current gold-standard QTL discovery approach that relies on permutations. Through simulation studies, we demonstrate that the proposed method performs accurate enrichment analysis and controls the desired type I error rate while greatly improving the power of QTL discovery when incorporating informative annotations. Finally, we analyze the recently released expression-genotype data from 44 human tissues generated by the GTEx project. By integrating the simple annotation of SNP distance to transcription start sites, we discover more genes that harbor expression-associated SNPs in  all 44 tissues, with an average increase of 1,485 genes.', u'Wikidata is an open, Semantic Web-compatible database that anyone can edit.  This \u2032data commons\u2032 provides structured data for Wikipedia articles and other applications. Every article on Wikipedia has a hyperlink to an editable item in this database.  This unique connection to the world\u2032s largest community of volunteer knowledge editors could help make Wikidata a key hub within the greater Semantic Web.  The life sciences, as ever, faces crucial challenges in disseminating and integrating knowledge. Our group is addressing these issues by populating Wikidata with the seeds of a foundational semantic network linking genes, drugs and diseases.  Using this content, we are enhancing Wikipedia articles to both increase their quality and recruit human editors to expand and improve the underlying data.  We encourage the community to join us as we collaboratively create what can become the most used and most central semantic data resource for the life sciences and beyond.', u'Although proteomics has made rapid progress in the past decade, researchers are still in the early stage of exploring the world of complex proteoforms, which are protein products with various primary structure alterations resulting from gene mutations, alternative splicing, post-translational modifications, and other biological processes. Proteoform identification is essential to mapping proteoforms to their biological functions as well as discovering novel proteoforms and new protein functions. Top-down mass spectrometry is the method of choice for identifying complex proteoforms because it provides a "bird view" of intact proteoforms. The combinatorial explosion of possible proteoforms, which\nmay result in billions of possible proteoforms for one protein, makes proteoform identification a challenging computational problem. Here we propose a new data structure, called the mass graph, for efficiently representing proteoforms. In addition, we design mass graph alignment algorithms for proteoform identification by top-down mass spectrometry. Experiments on a histone H4 mass spectrometry data set showed that the proposed methods outperformed MS-Align-E in identifying complex proteoforms.', u'Plastids perform crucial cellular functions, including photosynthesis, across a wide variety of eukaryotes. Since endosymbiosis, plastids have maintained independent genomes that now display a wide diversity of gene content, genome structure, gene regulation mechanisms, and transmission modes. The evolution of plastid genomes depends on an input of de novo mutation, but our knowledge of mutation in the plastid is limited to indirect inference from patterns of DNA divergence between species. Here, we use a mutation accumulation experiment, where selection acting on mutations is rendered ineffective, combined with whole-plastid genome sequencing to directly characterize de novo mutation in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. We show that the mutation rates of the plastid and nuclear genomes are similar, but that the base spectra of mutations differ significantly. We integrate our measure of the mutation rate with a population genomic dataset of 20 individuals, and show that the plastid genome is subject to substantially stronger genetic drift than the nuclear genome. We also show that high levels of linkage disequilibrium in the plastid genome are not due to restricted recombination, but are instead a consequence of increased genetic drift. One likely explanation for increased drift in the plastid genome is that there are stronger effects of genetic hitchhiking. The presence of recombination in the plastid is consistent with laboratory studies in C. reinhardtii and demonstrates that although the plastid genome is thought to be uniparentally inherited, it recombines in nature at a rate similar to the nuclear genome.', u'Background: RNA:DNA hybrids represent a non-canonical nucleic acid structure that has been associated with a range of human diseases and potential transcriptional regulatory functions.  Mapping of RNA:DNA hybrids in human cells reveals them to have a number of characteristics that give insights into their functions.  \nResults: We find RNA:DNA hybrids to occupy millions of base pairs in the human genome.  A directional sequencing approach shows the RNA component of the RNA:DNA hybrid to be purine-rich, indicating a thermodynamic contribution to their in vivo stability.  The RNA:DNA hybrids are enriched at loci with decreased DNA methylation and increased DNase hypersensitivity, and within larger domains with characteristics of heterochromatin formation, indicating potential transcriptional regulatory properties.  Mass spectrometry studies of chromatin at RNA:DNA hybrids shows the presence of the ILF2 and ILF3 transcription factors, supporting a model of certain transcription factors binding preferentially to the RNA:DNA conformation.  \nConclusions: Overall, there is little to indicate a dependence for RNA:DNA hybrids forming co-transcriptionally, with results from the ribosomal DNA repeat unit instead supporting the intriguing model of RNA generating these structures in trans.  The results of the study indicate heterogeneous functions of these genomic elements and new insights into their formation and stability in vivo.', u'In clonally propagated crops, non-additive genetic effects can be effectively exploited by the identification of superior genetic individuals as varieties. Cassava (Manihot esculenta Crantz) is a clonally propagated staple food crop that feeds hundreds of millions. We quantified the amount and nature of non-additive genetic variation for key traits in a breeding population of cassava from sub-Saharan Africa using additive and non-additive genome-wide marker-based relationship matrices. We then assessed the accuracy of genomic prediction of additive compared to total (additive plus non-additive) genetic value. We confirmed previous findings based on diallel populations, that non-additive genetic variation is significant, especially for yield traits. Further, we show that we total genetic value correlated more strongly to observed phenotypes than did additive value, although this is constrained by low broad-sense heritability and is not beneficial for traits with already high heritability. We address the implication of these results for cassava breeding and put our work in the context of previous results in cassava, and other plant and animal species.', u'Blindness has evolved repeatedly in cave-dwelling organisms, and investigating loss of sight presents an opportunity to understand the operation of fundamental evolutionary processes, including drift, selection, mutation, and migration. The observation of blind organisms has prompted many theories for their blindness, including loss-by-disuse and selection against eye development when eyes are not used. Here we have developed a model that shows just how strong selection must be for blind populations of a cave-dwelling species to evolve. We used approximations to determine levels of selection that would result in caves containing only sighted individuals, only blind individuals, or a stable population of both. We then incorporated drift into the model using simulations. Based on our model, strong selection is necessary for the evolution of blindness unless immigration rates are extremely low. Drift decreased the fixation of blindness in populations, although for intermediate levels of migration the level of selection required to fix blindness decreased substantially. We hypothesize that this degree of selection may be due to phototaxis in sighted individuals, who move toward the light leaving only blind individuals in the cave.', u'The regulation of mRNA translation at synaptic level is believed to be fundamental in memory and learning at cellular level. A family of RNA binding proteins (RBPs) which emerged to be important during development and in adult neurons is the one of Cytoplasmic Polyadenylation Element Binding proteins (CPEBs). Drosophila Orb2 (homolog of vertebrate CPEB2 protein and of the neural isoform of Aplysia CPEB) has been found to be involved in the translation of plasticity-dependent mRNAs and has been associated to Long Term Memory (LTM). Orb2 protein presents two main isoforms, Orb2A and Orb2B, which form an activity induced amyloid-like functional aggregate, which is thought to be the translation-inducing state of the RBP. Here we present a two-states continuous differential model for Orb2A-Orb2B aggregation and we propose it, more generally, as a new synaptic facilitation rule for learning processes involving protein aggregation-dependent plasticity (PADP).', u'Poison frogs sequester chemical defenses from arthropod prey, although the details of how arthropod diversity contributes to variation in poison frog toxins remains unclear. We characterized skin alkaloid profiles in the Little Devil frog, Oophaga sylvatica (Dendrobatidae), across three populations in northwestern Ecuador. Using gas chromatography mass spectrometry, we identified histrionicotoxins, 3,5- and 5,8-disubstituted indolizidines, decahydroquinolines, and lehmizidines as the primary alkaloid toxins in these O. sylvatica populations. Frog skin alkaloid composition varied along a latitudinal gradient across populations in a principal component analysis. We also characterized diversity in arthropods isolated from frog stomach contents and confirmed O. sylvatica specialize on ants and mites. To test the hypothesis that poison frog toxin diversity reflects species and chemical diversity in arthropod prey, we (1) used liquid chromatography mass spectrometry to chemically profile consumed ants and mites, and (2) used sequencing of cytochrome oxidase 1 to identify individual prey specimens. We show that chemical profiles of consumed ants and mites cluster by frog population, suggesting different frog populations have access to chemically distinct prey. We identified 45 ants and 9 mites isolated from frog stomachs, finding several undescribed species. Finally, by comparing chemical profiles of frog skin and isolated prey items, we were able to trace the arthropod source of four poison frog alkaloids, including 3,5- and 5,8-disubstituted indolizidines and a lehmizidine alkaloid. Together, our data shows the diversity of alkaloid toxins found in O. sylvatica can be traced to chemical diversity in arthropod prey.', u'The genetic structure of human populations is often characterized by aggregating measures of ancestry across the autosomal chromosomes. While it may be reasonable to assume that population structure patterns are similar genome-wide in relatively homogeneous populations, this assumption may not be appropriate for admixed populations, such as Hispanics and African Americans, with recent ancestry from two or more continents. Recent studies have suggested that systematic ancestry differences can arise at genomic locations in admixed populations as a result of selection and non-random mating.   Here, we propose a method, which we refer to as the chromosomal ancestry differences (CAnD) test, for detecting heterogeneity in population structure across the genome.  CAnD uses local ancestry inferred from SNP genotype data to identify chromosomes harboring genomic regions with ancestry contributions that are significantly different than expected. In simulation studies with real genotype data from Phase III of the HapMap Project, we demonstrate the validity and power of CAnD. We apply CAnD to the HapMap Mexican American (MXL) and African American (ASW) population samples; in this analysis the software RFMix is used to infer local ancestry at genomic regions assuming admixing from Europeans, West Africans, and Native Americans. The CAnD test provides strong evidence of heterogeneity in population structure across the genome in the MXL sample ($p=4e-05$), which is largely driven by elevated Native American ancestry and deficit of European ancestry on the X chromosomes. Among the ASW, all chromosomes are largely African derived and no heterogeneity in population structure is detected in this sample.', u'Analysis of previously unpublished allele counts obtained from the French-San-Neanderthal-Chimpanzee alignment of the high quality DNA sequence of a Neanderthal from the Altai Mountains raises significant questions about the currently accepted phylogenetic model of the origins of Europeans. Previous estimates of the proportion of Neanderthal ancestry in present-day Europeans ranged between 1.3% and 2.7% supporting a recent Out-of Africa dispersal model followed by a low level of admixture with Neanderthals. However, analysis of the allele counts indicates the existence of an unidentified third archaic ancestor of Europeans, which diverged from its common ancestor with sub-Saharan Africans around 900 thousand years ago. This analysis shows that the relative proportions of derived alleles in the 0.0826% of the European genome that is not shared with the common ancestor of humans and chimpanzee are 13.6% Neanderthal, 32.3% sub-Saharan African and 54.2% third archaic ancestor. This analysis together with anthropological and archaeological evidence suggests a new model of human dispersal based on a Eurasian lineage in the Levant, which admixed with Neanderthals and descendants of African mtDNA haplogroup L3, followed by radiation from a basal admixed population around 55-50 Kya, with no subsequent major contribution to the European genome.', u'One of the goals of relation extraction is to identify protein-protein interactions (PPIs) in biomedical literature. Current systems are capturing binary relations and also the direction and type of an interaction. Besides assisting in the curation PPIs into databases, there has been little real-world application of these algorithms. We describe UPSITE, a text mining tool for extracting evidence in support of a hypothesized interaction. Given a predicted PPI, UPSITE uses a binary relation detector to check whether a PPI is found in abstracts in PubMed. If it is not found, UPSITE retrieves documents relevant to each of the two proteins separately, and extracts contextual information about biological events surrounding each protein, and calculates semantic similarity of the two proteins to provide evidential support for the predicted PPI. In evaluations, relation extraction achieved an Fscore of 0.88 on the HPRD50 corpus, and semantic similarity measured with angular distance was found to be statistically significant. With the development of PPI prediction algorithms, the burden of interpreting the validity and relevance of novel PPIs is on biologists. We suggest that presenting annotations of the two proteins in a PPI side-by-side and a score that quantifies their similarity lessens this burden to some extent.', u"Rapid control of adhesive forces is one of the key benchmarks where footpads of climbing animals outperform conventional adhesives, promising novel bio-inspired attachment systems. All climbing animals use shear forces to switch rapidly between firm attachment and easy detachment, but the detailed mechanisms underlying `shear-sensitive adhesion' have remained unclear. Here, we show that attachment forces of stick insects follow classic peeling theory when shear forces are small, but strongly exceed predictions as soon as their pads start to slide due to high shear forces. Pad sliding dramatically increases the critical peel force via a combination of two distinct mechanisms. First, partial sliding will pre-stretch the pads, so that they are effectively stiffer upon detachment and peel increasingly like inextensible tape. We demonstrate how this effect can be directly related to peeling theories which account for frictional dissipation. Second, pad sliding reduces the thickness of the secretion layer in the contact zone, thereby decreasing the interfacial mobility, and increasing the stress levels required for peeling. The approximately linear increase of adhesion with friction results in a sharp increase of adhesion at peel angles less than ca. 30\xb0, allowing rapid switching between attachment and detachment during locomotion. Our results may apply to diverse climbing animals independent of pad morphology and adhesive mechanism, and highlight that control of adhesion is not solely achieved by direction-dependence and morphological anisotropy, suggesting promising new routes for the development of bio-inspired adhesives.", u'Much work has been devoted to understanding the evolutionary processes shaping genetic variation across genomes. Studies have found that neutral polymorphism is reduced close to genes and in regions of low recombination, suggesting the effects of natural selection. However, the effect of selection on neutral sequence divergence between species remains ambiguous. While studies have reported correlations between divergence and recombination, theoretical arguments suggest selection may not affect divergence at linked neutral sites. Here we address these outstanding issues by examining how natural selection has affected divergence between distantly related species. We show that neutral divergence is negatively correlated with functional content and positively correlated with estimates of background selection from primates. These patterns persist even when comparing humans and mice, species that split 75 million years ago. Further, neutral divergence is positively correlated with recombination rate. The correlation increases when focusing on genic regions, and biased gene conversion cannot explain all of this correlation. These signatures suggest that natural selection has affected linked divergence between distantly related species. Coalescent models indicate that background selection can generate these patterns. Even when the contribution of ancestral polymorphism to divergence is small, background selection in the ancestral population can still explain a large proportion of the variance in divergence across the genome. Thus, the view that selection does not affect divergence at linked neutral sites needs to be reconsidered. Our work has important implications for understanding evolution of genomes and interpreting patterns of genetic variation.', u'The rise of big data in modern research poses serious challenges for data management: Large and intricate datasets from diverse instrumentation must be precisely aligned, annotated, and processed in a variety of ways to extract new insights.  While high levels of data integrity are expected, research teams have diverse backgrounds, are geographically dispersed, and rarely possess a primary interest in data science.  Here we describe DataJoint, an open-source toolbox designed for manipulating and processing scientific data under the relational data model.  Designed for scientists who need a flexible and expressive database language with few basic concepts and operations, DataJoint facilitates multi-user access, efficient queries, and distributed computing.  With implementations in both MATLAB and Python, DataJoint is not limited to particular file formats, acquisition systems, or data modalities and can be quickly adapted to new experimental designs.  DataJoint and related resources are available at http://datajoint.github.com.', u'Insulin is an essential hormone with key roles in energy homeostasis and body composition. Mice and rats, unlike other mammals, have two insulin genes: the rodent-specific Ins1 gene and the ancestral Ins2 gene. The relationships between insulin gene dosage and obesity has previously been explored in male and female Ins2-/- mice with full or reduced Ins1 dosage, as well as in female Ins1-/- mice with full or partial Ins2 dosage. We report herein unexpected hyper-variability in circulating insulin and physiological responses to high fat feeding in male Ins1-/-:Ins2+/- mice. Two large cohorts of Ins1-/-:Ins2+/- mice and their Ins1-/-:Ins2+/+ littermates were fed chow diet or high fat diet (HFD) from weaning and housed in specific pathogen-free (SPF) conditions. Cohort A and cohort B were studied one year apart. Contrary to female mice from the same litters, inactivating one Ins2 allele on the complete Ins1-null background did not cause a consistent reduction of circulating insulin in male mice. In cohort A, HFD-fed males showed an equivalent degree of insulin hypersecretion and weight gain, regardless of Ins2 dosage. In cohort B, Ins1-/-:Ins2+/- males showed decreased insulin levels and body mass, compared to Ins1-/-:Ins2+/+ littermates. While experimental conditions were held consistent between cohorts, we found that HFD-fed Ins1-/-:Ins2+/- mice with lower insulin levels had increased corticosterone. Collectively, these observations highlight the hyper-variability and range of phenotypic characteristics modulated by Ins2 gene dosage, specifically in male mice.', u'Deep sequencing has the potential to shed light on the functional and phylogenetic heterogeneity of microbial populations in the environment. Here we present PhyloCNV, an integrated computational pipeline for quantifying species abundance and strain-level genomic variation from shotgun metagenomes. Our method leverages a comprehensive database of >30,000 reference genomes which we accurately clustered into species groups using a panel of universal-single-copy genes. Given a shotgun metagenome, PhyloCNV will rapidly and automatically identify gene copy number variants and single-nucleotide variants present in abundant bacterial species. We applied PhyloCNV to >500 faecal metagenomes from the United States, Europe, China, Peru, and Tanzania and present the first global analysis of strain-level variation and biogeography in the human gut microbiome. On average there is 8.5x more nucleotide diversity of strains between different individuals than within individuals, with elevated strain-level diversity in hosts from Peru and Tanzania that live rural lifestyles. For many, but not all common gut species, a significant proportion of inter-sample strain-level genetic diversity is explained by host geography. Eubacterium rectale, for example, has a highly structured population that tracks with host country, while strains of Bacteroides uniformis and other species are structured independently of their hosts. Finally, we discovered that the gene content of some bacterial strains diverges at short evolutionary timescales during which few nucleotide variants accumulate. These findings shed light onto the recent evolutionary history of microbes in the human gut and highlight the extensive differences in the gene content of closely related bacterial strains. PhyloCNV is freely available at: https://github.com/snayfach/PhyloCNV.', u'The discovery of shared behavioral processes across phyla is an essential step in the establishment of a comparative study of behavior. We use immobility as an origin and reference for the measurement of locomotor behavior; speed, direction of walking and direction of facing as the three degrees of freedom shaping fly locomotor behavior; and cocaine as the parameter inducing a progressive transition in and out of immobility. In this way we expose and quantify the generative rules that shape part of fruit fly locomotor behavior, bringing about a gradual buildup of freedom during the transition from immobility to normal behavior and a precisely opposite narrowing down during the transition into immobility. During buildup the fly exhibits enhancement and then reduction to normal values of movement along each degree of freedom: first, body rotation in the horizontal plane, then path curvature and then speed of translation. Transition into immobility unfolds by narrowing down of the repertoire in the opposite sequential order, showing reciprocal relations during both buildup and narrowing down. The same generative rules apply to vertebrate locomotor behavior in a variety of contexts involving transition out and into immobility. Recent claims for deep homology between the arthropod central complex and the vertebrate basal ganglia provide an opportunity to examine whether the generative rules we discovered also share common descent. Neurochemical processes mediating the buildup of locomotor behavior in vertebrates could guide the search for equivalent processes in arthropods. The measurement methodology we use prompts the discovery of candidate behavioral homologies.', u'Accurate identification of genotypes is critical in identifying de novo mutations, linking mutations with disease, and determining mutation rates. To call genotypes correctly from short-read data requires modeling read counts for each base. True heterozygotes may be affected by mapping reference bias and library preparation, leading to a distribution of reads that does not fit a 1:1 binomial distribution, and potentially resulting failure to call the alternate allele. Homozygous sites can be affected by the alignment of paralogous genes and sequencing error, which could incorrectly suggest heterozygousity. \n\nPrevious work has modeled increased variance and skewed allele ratios to some degree. Here, we were able to model reads for all data as a mixture of Dirichlet multinomial distributions. This model has a better fit to the data than previously used models. In most cases we observed two distributions: one corresponds to a large proportion of heterozygous sites with a low reference bias and close-to-binomial distribution, and the other to a small proportion of sites with a high bias and overdispersion. The sites with high reference bias have not been previously identified as SNPs in extensive human genome research; thus, we believe these sites are not heterozygous in our data for the individuals studied here, and are falsely identified as heterozygous sites. We propose that this approach to modeling the distribution of NGS data provides a better fit to the data, which should lead to improved genotyping. Furthermore, the mixture of distributions may be used to suggest true and false positive de novo mutations. This approach provides an expected distribution of reads that can be incorporated into a model to estimate de novo mutations using reads across a pedigree.', u'Insulin is an ancient, multi-functional hormone with essential roles in glucose homeostasis and energy storage. Recently, our group has taken advantage of the ability to limit insulin secretion in vivo by reducing insulin gene dosage to demonstrate that insulin hypersecretion is a requirement for diet-induced obesity. Our previous studies employed male Ins1+/-:Ins2-/- mice that exhibit a complete inhibition of diet-induced hyperinsulinemia relative to Ins1+/+:Ins2-/- littermate controls, as well as female Ins1-/-:Ins2+/- mice with transient, partial reduction in circulating insulin relative to Ins1-/-:Ins2+/+ littermates. In the present study, we sought to extend these studies to male Ins1-/-:Ins2+/- mice on the same chow and high fat diets. Surprisingly, while reduced Ins2 gene dosage appeared capable of reducing Ins2 mRNA, insulin protein levels in these mice were not significantly reduced. Moreover, there was a marked hyper-variability in circulating insulin levels within and between two independent cohorts of mice that persisted over at least the first year of life. In Cohort 1, we observed a paradoxical increase in body weight in some high fat-fed male Ins1-/-:Ins2+/- mice relative to Ins1-/-:Ins2+/+ littermate controls. This phenomenon is consistent with the known satiety effects of insulin and our previous observations with Ins2 can be expressed in the brain. Collectively, our data reveal unexpected complexity associated with the Ins2 gene in male mice, and establish the Ins2 gene as a candidate for studying the effects of modifier genes and/or environmental influences on gene-to-phenotype variability. Further studies are required to define the molecular mechanisms of this phenotypic hyper-variability and to define the role of reduced Ins2 gene dosage in the brain.', u'Complete gene knockouts are highly informative about gene function. We exome sequenced 3,222 British Pakistani-heritage adults with high parental relatedness, discovering 1,111 rare-variant homozygous likely loss of function (rhLOF) genotypes predicted to disrupt (knockout) 781 genes. Based on depletion of rhLOF genotypes, we estimate that 13.6% of knockouts are incompatible with adult life, finding on average 1.6 heterozygous recessive lethal LOF variants per adult. Linking to lifelong health records, we observed no association of rhLOF genotypes with prescription- or doctor-consultation rate, and no disease-related phenotypes in 33 of 42 individuals with rhLOF genotypes in recessive Mendelian disease genes. Phased genome sequencing of a healthy PRDM9 knockout mother, her child and controls, showed meiotic recombination sites localised away from PRDM9-dependent hotspots, demonstrating PRDM9 redundancy in humans.', u'Motivation: A series of methods in population genetics use multilocus genotype data to assign individuals membership in latent clusters. These methods belong to a broad class of mixed-membership models, such as latent Dirichlet allocation used to analyze text corpora. Inference from mixed-membership models can produce different output matrices when repeatedly applied to the\nsame inputs, and the number of latent clusters is a parameter that is varied in the analysis pipeline. For these reasons, quantifying, visualizing, and annotating the output from mixed-membership models are bottlenecks for investigators.\nResults: Here, we introduce pong, a network-graphical approach for analyzing and visualizing membership in latent clusters with a D3.js interactive visualization. We apply this new method to 225,705 unlinked genome-wide single-nucleotide variants from 2,426 unrelated individuals in the 1000 Genomes Project, and show that pong outpaces current solutions by more than an order of magnitude in runtime while providing a customizable and interactive visualization of population structure that is more accurate than those produced by current tools.\nAvailability: pong is freely available and can be installed using the Python package management system pip.', u'The ontogenetic growth modeling has been of conspicuously scientific interest, as well as its practical importance in many industrial activities for optimal design. Much work has been done recently to understand the growth mechanism of living organism with a nonlinear time dependence. Some quantitative metabolic models which have been provided to describe organism growth curves are in comparison with what for ontogenetic growth represented by G.B. West et al. (West et al., 2001) in his basic formulations used to discuss the application on different growth patterns. Herein the analytical solution is also involved. In this paper we re-analyzed the assumptions underlying them to find whether the basic relation of organism growth estimated can inosculate with the equation we have proposed.', u"Across western North America, Mimulus guttatus exists as many local populations adapted to site-specific challenges including salt spray, temperature, water availability, and soil chemistry.  Gene flow between locally adapted populations will effect genetic diversity in both local demes and across the larger meta-population. A single population of annual M. guttatus from Iron Mountain, Oregon (IM) has been extensively studied and we here building off this research by analyzing whole genome sequences from 34 inbred lines from IM in conjunction with sequences from 22 Mimulus individuals from across the geographic range.  Three striking features of these data address hypotheses about migration and selection in a locally adapted population.  First, we find very high intra-population polymorphism (synonymous \u03c0 = 0.033). Variation outside genes may be even higher, but is difficult to estimate because excessive divergence affects read mapping.  Second, IM exhibits a significantly positive genome-wide average for Tajima's D.  This indicates allele frequencies are typically more intermediate than expected from neutrality, opposite the pattern observed in other species.  Third, IM exhibits a distinctive haplotype structure.  There is a genome-wide excess of positive associations between minor alleles; consistent with an important effect of gene flow from nearby Mimulus populations.  The combination of multiple data types, including a novel, tree-based analytic method and estimates for structural polymorphism (inversions) from previous genetic mapping studies, illustrates how the balance of strong local selection, limited dispersal, and meta-population dynamics manifests across the genome.", u'In a fitness landscape, fitness values are associated to all genotypes corresponding to several, potentially all, combinations of a set of mutations. In the last decade, many small experimental fitness landscapes have been partially or completely resolved, and more will likely follow. MAGELLAN is a web-based graphical software to explore small fitness/energy landscapes through dynamic visualization and quantitative measures. It can be used to explore input custom landscapes, previously published experimental landscapes or randomly generated model landscapes.', u'RNA sequencing protocols allow for quantifying gene expression regulation at each individual step, from\ntranscription to protein synthesis. Ribosome Profiling (Ribo-seq) maps the positions of translating\nribosomes over the entire transcriptome. Despite its great potential, a rigorous statistical approach to\nidentify translated regions by means of the characteristic three-nucleotide periodicity of Ribo-seq data is\nnot yet available. To fill this gap, we developed RiboTaper, which quantifies the significance of periodic\nRibo-seq reads via spectral analysis methods.\nWe applied RiboTaper on newly generated, deep Ribo-seq data in HEK293 cells, to derive an extensive\nmap of translation that covers Open Reading Frame (ORF) annotations for more than 11,000 protein-\ncoding genes. We also find distinct ribosomal signatures for several hundred detected upstream ORFs\nand ORFs in annotated non-coding genes (ncORFs). Mass spectrometry data confirms that RiboTaper\nachieves excellent coverage of the cellular proteome and validates dozens of novel peptide products.\nCollectively, RiboTaper (available at https://ohlerlab.mdc-berlin.de/software/ ) is a powerful method for\ncomprehensive de novo identification of actively used ORFs in the human genome.', u'Spatial patterns of neutral genetic diversity are often investigated to infer gene flow in wild populations. However, teasing apart the influence of gene flow from the effect of genetic drift is challenging given that both forces are acting simultaneously on patterns of genetic differentiation. Here, we tested the relevance of a distance-based metric -based on estimates of effective population sizes or on environmental proxies for local carrying capacities- to assess the unique contribution of genetic drift on pairwise measures of genetic differentiation. Using simulations under various models of population genetics, we demonstrated that one of three metrics we tested was particularly promising: it correctly and uniquely captured variance in genetic differentiation that was due to genetic drift when this process was modelled. We further showed that (i) the unique contribution of genetic drift on genetic differentiation was high (up to 20 %) even when gene flow was high and for relatively high effective population sizes, and (ii) that this metric was robust to uncertainty in the estimation of local effective population size (or proxies for carrying capacity). Finally, using an empirical dataset on a freshwater fish (Gobio occitaniae), we demonstrated the usefulness of this metric to quantify the relative contribution of genetic drift and gene flow in explaining pattern of genetic differentiation in this species. We conclude that considering Isolation-by-Drift metrics will substantially improve the understanding of evolutionary drivers of observed spatial patterns of genetic variation.', u'The human mutation rate is an essential parameter for studying the evolution of our species, interpreting present-day genetic variation, and understanding the incidence of genetic disease. Nevertheless, our current estimates of the rate are uncertain. Most notably, recent approaches based on counting de novo mutations in family pedigrees have yielded significantly smaller values than classical methods based on sequence divergence. Here, we propose a new method that uses the fine-scale human recombination map to calibrate the rate of accumulation of mutations. By comparing local heterozygosity levels in diploid genomes to the genetic distance scale over which these levels change, we are able to estimate a long-term mutation rate averaged over hundreds or thousands of generations. We infer a rate of 1.61 +/- 0.13 x 10^(-8) mutations per base per generation, which falls in between phylogenetic and pedigree-based estimates, and we suggest possible mechanisms to reconcile our estimate with previous studies. Our results support intermediate-age divergences among human populations and between humans and other great apes.', u'Recent emergence of nanopore sequencing technology set a challenge for the established assembly methods not optimized for the combination of read lengths and high error rates of nanopore reads. In this work we assessed how existing de novo assembly methods perform on these reads. We benchmarked three non-hybrid (in terms of both error correction and scaffolding) assembly pipelines as well as two hybrid assemblers which use third generation sequencing data to scaffold Illumina assemblies. Tests were performed on several publicly available MinION and Illumina datasets of E. coli K-12, using several sequencing coverages of nanopore data (20x, 30x, 40x and 50x). We attempted to assess the quality of assembly at each of these coverages, to estimate the requirements for closed bacterial genome assembly. Results show that hybrid methods are highly dependent on the quality of NGS data, but much less on the quality and coverage of nanopore data and perform relatively well on lower nanopore coverages. Furthermore, when coverage is above 40x, all non-hybrid methods correctly assemble the E. coli genome, even a non-hybrid method tailored for Pacific Bioscience reads. While it requires higher coverage compared to a method designed particularly for nanopore reads, its running time is significantly lower.', u'Daily dark periods cause an increase in the leaf CO2 concentration (Ci) and the continuing atmospheric [CO2] rise also increases Ci. Elevated Ci causes closing of stomatal pores thus regulating gas exchange of plants. The molecular signaling mechanisms leading to CO2-induced stomatal closure are only partially understood. Here we demonstrate that high intracellular CO2/HCO3- enhances currents mediated by the guard cell S-type anion channel SLAC1 when co-expressing either of the protein kinases OST1, CPK6 or CPK23 in Xenopus oocytes. Split-ubiquitin screening identified the PIP2;1 aquaporin as an interactor of the \u03b2CA4 carbonic anhydrase, which was confirmed in split luciferase, bimolecular fluorescence complementation and co-immunoprecipitation experiments. PIP2;1 exhibited CO2 permeability. Co-expression of \u03b2CA4 and PIP2;1 with OST1-SLAC1 or CPK6/23-SLAC1 enabled extracellular CO2 enhancement of SLAC1 anion channel activity. An inactive PIP2;1 point mutation was identified which abrogated water and CO2 permeability and extracellular CO2 regulation of SLAC1 activity in Xenopus oocytes. These findings identify the CO2-permeable PIP2;1 aquaporin as key interactor of carbonic anhydrases, show functional reconstitution of extracellular CO2 signaling to ion channel regulation and implicate SLAC1 as a bicarbonate-responsive protein in CO2 regulation of S-type anion channels.', u'Plant parasitic nematodes (PPN) locate host plants by following concentration gradients of root exudate chemicals in the soil.  We present a simple method for RNAi-induced knockdown of genes in tomato seedling roots, facilitating the study of root exudate composition, and PPN responses.  Knockdown of sugar transporter genes, stp1 and stp2 in tomato seedlings triggers corresponding reductions of glucose and fructose, but not xylose, in collected root exudate.  This corresponds directly with reduced infectivity and stylet thrusting of the promiscuous PPN Meloidogyne incognita, however we observe no impact on the infectivity or stylet thrusting of the selective Solanaceae PPN Globodera pallida.  This approach can underpin future efforts to understand the early stages of plant-pathogen interactions in tomato, and potentially other crop plants.', u'Mixed dispersal syndromes have historically been regarded as bet-hedging mechanisms that enhance survival in unpredictable environments, ensuring that some propagules stay in the maternal environment while others can potentially colonize new sites. However, this entails paying the costs of both dispersal and non-dispersal. Propagules that disperse are likely to encounter unfavorable conditions for establishment, while non-dispersing propagules might form populations of close relatives burdened with inbreeding. Here, we investigate the conditions under which mixed dispersal syndromes emerge and are evolutionarily stable, taking into account the risks of both environmental unpredictability and inbreeding. Using mathematical and computational modeling we show that high dispersal propensity is favored whenever temporal environmental unpredictability is low and inbreeding depression high, whereas mixed dispersal syndromes are adaptive under conditions of high environmental unpredictability, but more particularly if also inbreeding depression is small. Although pure dispersers can be selected for under some circumstances, mixed dispersal provides the optimal strategy under most parameterizations of our models, indicating that this strategy is likely to be favored under a wide variety of conditions. Furthermore, populations exhibiting any single phenotype go inevitably extinct when environmental and genetic costs are high, whilst mixed strategies can maintain viable populations even under such conditions. Our models support the hypothesis that the interplay between inbreeding depression and environmental unpredictability shapes dispersal syndromes, often resulting in mixed strategies. Moreover, mixed dispersal seems to facilitate persistence whenever conditions are critical or nearly critical for survival.', u'The assembly of the first centrosome occurs upon fertilisation when the male centrioles recruit pericentriolar material (PCM) from the egg cytoplasm. While inaccuracy in the assembly of centrosomes leads to infertility and abnormal embryogenesis, the mechanism that ensures accurate assembly in vertebrate embryos remains obscure. Here we applied a CRISPR-Cas9-mediated gene knockout to show that Wdr8, a novel centrosomal protein, is maternally essential for PCM assembly during embryonic mitoses of medaka (Oryzias latipes). Maternal/zygotic Wdr8-null (Wdr8-/-) blastomeres exhibit severe defects in PCM assembly that cause them to divide asymmetrically and develop multipolar mitotic spindles and aneuploidy. We demonstrate that Wdr8 interacts via its WD40 domains with the centriolar satellite protein SSX2IP. Strikingly, exogenously provided Wdr8 fully rescues Wdr8-/- embryos to adulthood, except in variants with mutations in the WD40 domains. This combination of targeted gene inactivation and in vivo reconstitution of the maternally essential Wdr8-SSX2IP complex reveals an essential link between maternal PCM and the stability of the zygotic genome in the early vertebrate embryo.', u"A major goal of biomedicine is to understand the function of every gene in the human genome. Null mutations can disrupt both copies of a given gene in humans and phenotypic analysis of such 'human knockouts' can provide insight into gene function. To date, comprehensive analysis of genes knocked out in humans has been limited by the fact that null mutations are infrequent in the general population and so, observing an individual homozygous null for a given gene is exceedingly rare. However, consanguineous unions are more likely to result in offspring who carry homozygous null mutations. In Pakistan, consanguinity rates are notably high. Here, we sequenced the protein-coding regions of 7,078 adult participants living in Pakistan and performed phenotypic analysis to identify homozygous null individuals and to understand consequences of complete gene disruption in humans. We enumerated 36,850 rare (<1 % minor allele frequency) null mutations. These homozygous null mutations led to complete inactivation of 961 genes in at least one participant. Homozygosity for null mutations at APOC3 was associated with absent plasma apolipoprotein C-III levels; at PLAG27, with absent enzymatic activity of soluble lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2; at CYP2F1, with higher plasma interleukin-8 concentrations; and at either A3GALT2 or NRG4, with markedly reduced plasma insulin C-peptide concentrations. After physiologic challenge with oral fat, APOC3 knockouts displayed marked blunting of the usual post-prandial rise in plasma triglycerides compared to wild-type family members. These observations provide a roadmap to understand the consequences of complete disruption of a large fraction of genes in the human genome.", u'The observation that variants regulating gene expression (expression quantitative trait loci, eQTL) are at a high frequency among SNPs associated with complex traits has made the genome-wide characterization of gene expression an important tool in genetic mapping studies of such traits. As part of a study to identify genetic loci contributing to bipolar disorder and a wide range of BP-related quantitative traits in members of 26 pedigrees from Costa Rica and Colombia, we measured gene expression in lymphoblastoid cell lines derived from 786 pedigree members. The study design enabled us to comprehensively reconstruct the genetic regulatory network in these families, provide estimates of heritability, identify eQTL, evaluate missing heritability for the eQTL, and quantify the number of different alleles contributing to any given locus.', u"While implementing the algorithm, we discovered two mathematical mistakes in Gotoh's paper that induce sub-optimal sequence alignments.  First, there are minor indexing mistakes in the dynamic programming algorithm which become apparent immediately when implementing the procedure. Hence, we report on these for the sake of completeness.  Second, there is a more profound problem with the dynamic programming matrix initialization. This initialization issue can easily be missed and find its way into actual implementations. This error is also present in standard text books. Namely, the widely used books by Gusfield and Waterman. To obtain an initial estimate of the extent to which this error has been propagated, we scrutinized freely available undergraduate lecture slides. We found that 8 out of 31 lecture slides contained the mistake, while 16 out of 31 simply omit parts of the initialization, thus giving an incomplete description of the algorithm. Finally, by inspecting ten source codes and running respective tests, we found that five implementations were incorrect. Note that, not all bugs we identified are due to the mistake in Gotoh's paper.  Three implementations rely on additional constraints that limit generality.  Thus, only two out of ten yield correct results. We show that the error introduced by Gotoh is straightforward to resolve and provide a correct open-source reference implementation. We do believe though, that raising the awareness about these errors is critical, since the impact of incorrect pairwise sequence alignments that typically represent one of the very first stages in any bioinformatics data analysis pipeline can have a detrimental impact on downstream analyses such as multiple sequence alignment, orthology assignment, phylogenetic analyses, divergence time estimates, etc.", u'The capacity to map traits over large cohorts of individuals \u2013 phenomics \u2013 lags far behind the explosive development in genomics. For microbes the estimation of growth is the key phenotype. We introduce an automated microbial phenomics framework that delivers accurate and highly resolved growth phenotypes at an unprecedented scale. Advancements were achieved through introduction of transmissive scanning hardware and software technology, frequent acquisition of precise colony population size measurements, extraction of population growth rates from growth curves and removal of spatial bias by reference-surface normalization. Our prototype arrangement automatically records and analyses 100,000 experiments in parallel. We demonstrate the power of the approach by extending and nuancing the known salt defence biology in baker\u2019s yeast. The introduced framework will have a transformative impact by providing high-quality microbial phenomics data for extensive cohorts of individuals and generating well-populated and standardized phenomics databases.', u"Natural selection may often favor coordination between different traits, or phenotypic integration, in order to most efficiently acquire and deploy scarce resources. As leaves are the primary photosynthetic organ in plants, many have proposed that leaf physiology, biochemistry, and anatomical structure are coordinated along a functional trait spectrum from fast, resource-acquisitive syndromes to slow, resource-conservative syndromes. However, the coordination hypothesis has rarely been tested at a phylogenetic scale most relevant for understanding rapid adaptation in the recent past or predicting evolutionary trajectories in response to climate change. To that end, we used a common garden to examine genetically-based coordination between leaf traits across 19 wild and cultivated tomato taxa. We found surprisingly weak integration between photosynthetic rate, leaf structure, biochemical capacity, and CO2 diffusion, even though all were arrayed in the predicted direction along a 'fast-slow' spectrum. This suggests considerable scope for unique trait combinations to evolve in response to new environments or in crop breeding. In particular, we find that partially independent variation in stomatal and mesophyll conductance may allow a plant to improve water-use efficiency without necessarily sacrificing maximum photosynthetic rates. Our study does not imply that functional trait spectra or tradeoffs are unimportant, but that the many important axes of variation within a taxonomic group may be unique and not generalizable to other taxa.", u"The last 20 years of advancement in DNA sequencing technologies have led to the sequencing of thousands of microbial genomes, creating mountains of genetic data. While our efficiency in generating the data improves almost daily, applying meaningful relationships between the taxonomic and genetic entities on this scale requires a structured and integrative approach. Currently, the knowledge is distributed across a fragmented landscape of resources from government-funded institutions such as NCBI and UniProt to topic-focused databases like the ODB3 database of prokaryotic operons, to the supplemental table of a primary publication. A major drawback to large scale, expert curated databases is the expense of maintaining and extending them over time. No entity apart from a major institution with stable long term funding can consider this, and their scope is limited considering the magnitude of microbial data being generated daily. Wikidata is an, openly editable, semantic web compatible framework for knowledge representation. It is a project of the Wikimedia Foundation and offers knowledge integration capabilities ideally suited to the challenge of representing the exploding body of information about microbial genomics. We are developing a microbial specific data model, based on Wikidata's semantic web compatibility, that represents bacterial species, strains and the gene and gene products that define them. Currently, we have loaded 1736 gene items and 1741 protein items for two strains of the human pathogenic bacteria Chlamydia trachomatis and used this subset of data as an example of the empowering utility of this model. In our next phase of development, we will expand by adding another 118 bacterial genomes and their gene and gene products, totaling over 900,000 additional entities. This aggregation of knowledge will be a platform for community-driven collaboration, allowing the networking of microbial genetic data through the sharing of knowledge by both the data and domain expert.", u'Custom sequence capture experiments are becoming an efficient approach for gathering large sets of orthologous markers with targeted levels of informativeness in non-model organisms.  Transcriptome-based exon capture utilizes transcript sequences to design capture probes, often with the aid of a reference genome to identify intron-exon boundaries and exclude shorter exons (< 200 bp).  Here, we test an alternative approach that directly uses transcript sequences for probe design, which are often composed of multiple exons of varying lengths. Based on a selection of 1,260 orthologous transcripts, we conducted sequence captures across multiple phylogenetic scales for frogs, including species up to ~100 million years divergent from the focal group. After several conservative filtering steps, we recovered a large phylogenomic data set consisting of sequence alignments for 1,047 of the 1,260 transcriptome-based loci (~630,000 bp) and a large quantity of highly variable regions flanking the exons in transcripts (~70,000 bp).  We recovered high numbers of both shorter (< 100 bp) and longer exons (> 200 bp), with no major reduction in coverage towards the ends of exons. We observed significant differences in the performance of blocking oligos for target enrichment and non-target depletion during captures, and observed differences in PCR duplication rates that can be attributed to the number of individuals pooled for capture reactions.  We explicitly tested the effects of phylogenetic distance on capture sensitivity, specificity, and missing data, and provide a baseline estimate of expectations for these metrics based on nuclear pairwise differences among samples.  We provide recommendations for transcriptome-based exon capture design based on our results, and describe multiple pipelines for data assembly and analysis.', u'Whole-genome low-coverage sequencing has been combined with linkage-disequilibrium (LD) based genotype refinement to accurately and cost-effectively infer genotypes in large cohorts of individuals. Most genotype refinement methods are based on hidden Markov models, which are accurate but computationally expensive. We introduce an algorithm that models LD using a simple multivariate Gaussian distribution. The key feature of our algorithm is its speed, it is hundreds of times faster than other methods on the same data set and its scaling behaviour is linear in the number of samples. We demonstrate the performance of the method on both low-coverage and high-coverage samples.', u'Tumors are typically heterogeneous tissues comprised of multiple cell species in addition to extra-cellular matrix (ECM) and water fluid. It is difficult to model these components at the tissue (10-3-10-2m) scale, where individual cells cannot be represented without prohibitive computational burden. Assuming that same-kind components tend to cluster together, a multiphase approach can be applied to represent heterogeneous tumor tissue at this larger physical scale. This method enables simulating mixture of elements within tissues, e.g., geno-/phenotypic heterogeneity underlying mutation- or microenvironment-driven tumor progression. Further, by not explicitly tracking interfaces, this methodology facilitates realistic modeling of tissue in 3-D.', u'Boolean Integrase Logic gates use phage integrases that respond to transcriptional signals to implement logical functions within living cells via DNA recombination. Control of biological systems using these logic gates has many applications, including biomanufacturing, healthcare, or environmental remediation. Gates are highly sensitive to background transcriptional noise producing unwanted integrase expression and uncontrolled, permanent gate switching. Consequently, connecting gates to novel control signals requires time-consuming directed evolution of regions regulating integrase expression. Here we present an approach in which the activity of an alkane biosensor is tuned to match levels of existing integrase control signals. By adjusting AlkS expression, we tuned the transcriptional output of Palkb to match the output of existing integrase controllers. We successfully connected Palkb to two integrases with different transcriptional control requirements and demonstrated the original logic function was conserved. Our method complements directed evolution approaches to connect Boolean integrate logic gates to novel transcriptional sources and will ultimately facilitate the systematic in silico design of gates responding to various control signals.', u'Non-targeted metabolomic profiling is used to simultaneously assess a large part of the metabolome in a biological sample. Here, we describe both the analytical and computational methods used to analyze a large UPLC-Q-TOF MS-based metabolomic profiling effort using plasma and serum samples from participants in three Swedish population-based studies of middle-aged and older human subjects: TwinGene, ULSAM and PIVUS. At present, more than 200 metabolites have been manually annotated in more than 3,600 participants using an in-house library of standards and publically available spectral databases. Data available at the Metabolights repository include individual raw unprocessed data, processed data, basic demographic variables and spectra of annotated metabolites. Additional phenotypical and genetic data is available upon request to cohort steering committees. These studies represent a unique resource to explore and evaluate how metabolic variability across individuals affects human diseases.', u'Tandem fluorescent protein timers (tFTs) report on protein age through time-dependent change in color, which can be exploited to study protein turnover and trafficking. Each tFT, composed of two fluorescent proteins (FPs) that differ in maturation kinetics, is suited to follow protein dynamics within a specific time range determined by the maturation rates of both FPs. So far tFTs were constructed by combining different slower-maturing red fluorescent proteins (redFPs) with the same faster-maturing superfolder green fluorescent protein (sfGFP). Towards a comprehensive characterization of tFTs, we compare here tFTs composed of different faster-maturing greenFPs, while keeping the slower-maturing redFP constant (mCherry). Our results indicate that the greenFP maturation kinetics influences the time range of a tFT. Moreover, we observe that commonly used greenFPs can partially withstand proteasomal degradation due to the stability of the FP fold, which results in accumulation of tFT fragments in the cell. Depending on the order of FPs in the timer, incomplete proteasomal degradation either shifts the time range of the tFT towards slower time scales or precludes its use for measurements of protein turnover. We identify greenFPs that are efficiently degraded by the proteasome and provide simple guidelines for design of new tFTs.', u'BACKGROUND: Recent advances in transcriptome sequencing have enabled the discovery of thousands of long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) across multitudes of species.  Though several lncRNAs have been shown to play important roles in diverse biological processes, the functions and mechanisms of most lncRNAs remain unknown.  Two significant obstacles lie between transcriptome sequencing and functional characterization of lncRNAs: 1) identifying truly noncoding genes from de novo reconstructed transcriptomes, and 2) prioritizing hundreds of resulting putative lncRNAs from each sample for downstream experimental interrogation.  \nRESULTS: We present slncky, a computational lncRNA discovery tool that produces a high-quality set of lncRNAs from RNA-Sequencing data and further prioritizes lncRNAs by characterizing selective constraint as a proxy for function.  Our filtering pipeline is comparable to manual curation efforts and more sensitive than previously published approaches. Further, we develop, for the first time, a sensitive alignment pipeline for aligning lncRNA loci and propose new evolutionary metrics relevant for both sequence and transcript evolution.  Our analysis reveals that selection acts in several distinct patterns, and uncovers two notable classes of lncRNAs: one showing strong purifying selection at RNA sequence and another where constraint is restricted to the regulation but not the sequence of the transcript.\nCONCLUSION: Our novel comparative methods for lncRNAs reveals 233 constrained lncRNAs out of tens of thousands of currently annotated transcripts, which we believe should be prioritized for further interrogation. To aid in their analysis we provide the slncky Evolution Browser as a resource for experimentalists.', u'Background: Sequencing of both healthy and disease singletons yields many novel and low frequency variants of uncertain significance (VUS). Complete gene and genome sequencing by next generation sequencing (NGS) significantly increases the number of VUS detected. While prior studies have emphasized protein coding variants, non-coding sequence variants have also been proven to significantly contribute to high penetrance disorders, such as hereditary breast and ovarian cancer (HBOC). We present a strategy for analyzing different functional classes of non-coding variants based on information theory (IT).\nMethods: We captured and enriched for coding and non-coding variants in genes known to harbor mutations that increase HBOC risk. Custom oligonucleotide baits spanning the complete coding, non-coding, and intergenic regions 10 kb up- and downstream of ATM, BRCA1, BRCA2, CDH1, CHEK2, PALB2, and TP53 were synthesized for solution hybridization enrichment. Unique and divergent repetitive sequences were sequenced in 102 high-risk patients without identified mutations in BRCA1/2. Aside from protein coding changes, IT-based sequence analysis was used to identify and prioritize pathogenic non-coding variants that occurred within sequence elements predicted to be recognized by proteins or protein complexes involved in mRNA splicing, transcription, and untranslated region (UTR) binding and structure. This approach was supplemented by in silico and laboratory analysis of UTR structure.\nResults: 15,311 unique variants were identified, of which 245 occurred in coding regions. With the unified IT-framework, 132 variants were identified and 87 functionally significant VUS were further prioritized. We also identified 4 stop-gain variants and 3 reading-frame altering exonic insertions/deletions (indels).\nConclusions: We have presented a strategy for complete gene sequence analysis followed by a unified framework for interpreting non-coding variants that may affect gene expression. This approach distills large numbers of variants detected by NGS to a limited set of variants prioritized as potential deleterious changes.', u'Nearly half of the world\u2019s population is at risk for dengue, yet no licensed vaccine or anti-viral drug is currently available.  Dengue is caused by any of four dengue virus serotypes (DENV-1 through DENV-4), and infection by a DENV serotype is assumed to provide life-long protection against re-infection by that serotype. We investigated the validity of this fundamental assumption during a large dengue epidemic caused by DENV-2 in Iquitos, Peru, in 2010-2011, 15 years after the first outbreak of DENV-2 in the region. We estimated the age-dependent prevalence of serotype-specific DENV antibodies from longitudinal cohort studies conducted between 1993 and 2010. During the 2010-2011 epidemic, active dengue cases were identified through active community- and clinic-based febrile surveillance studies, and acute inapparent DENV infections were identified through contact tracing studies. Based on the age-specific prevalence of DENV-2 neutralizing antibodies, the age distribution of DENV-2 cases was markedly older than expected. Homologous protection was estimated at 35.1% (95% confidence interval: 0% \u2013 65.2%). At the individual level, pre-existing DENV-2 antibodies were associated with an incomplete reduction in the frequency of symptoms. Among dengue cases, 43% (26/66) exhibited elevated DENV-2 neutralizing antibody titers for years prior to infection, compared with 76% (13/17) of inapparent infections (age-adjusted odds ratio: 4.2; 95% confidence interval: 1.1 - 17.7). Our data indicate that protection from homologous DENV re-infection may be incomplete in some circumstances, which provides context for the limited vaccine efficacy against DENV-2 in recent trials. Further studies are warranted to confirm this phenomenon and to evaluate the potential role of incomplete homologous protection in DENV transmission dynamics.', u'Cassava (Manihot esculenta) is a crucial, under-researched crop feeding millions worldwide, especially in Africa. Cassava mosaic disease (CMD) has plagued production in Africa for over a century. Bi-parental mapping studies suggest primarily a single major gene mediates resistance. To be certain and to potentially identify new loci we conducted the first genome-wide association mapping study in cassava with 6128 African breeding lines. We also assessed the accuracy of genomic selection to improve CMD resistance. We found a single region on chromosome 8 accounts for most resistance but also identified 13 small effect regions. We found evidence that two epistatic loci and/or alternatively multiple resistance alleles exist at major QTL. We identified two peroxidases and one thioredoxin as candidate genes. Genomic prediction of additive and total genetic merit was accurate for CMD and will be effective both for selecting parents and identifying highly resistant clones as varieties.', u'We derive an unbiased information theoretic energy landscape for chromosomes at metaphase using a maximum entropy approach that accurately reproduces the details of the experimentally measured pair-wise contact probabilities between genomic loci. Dynamical simulations using this landscape lead to cylindrical, helically twisted structures reflecting liquid crystalline order. These structures are similar to those arising from a generic ideal homogenized chromosome energy landscape. The helical twist can be either right or left handed so chiral symmetry is broken spontaneously. The ideal chromosome landscape when augmented by interactions like those leading to topologically associating domain (TAD) formation in the interphase chromosome reproduces these behaviors. The phase diagram of this landscape shows the helical fiber order and the cylindrical shape persist at temperatures above the onset of chiral symmetry breaking which is limited by the TAD interaction strength.', u'Systemic chemotherapy is one of the main anticancer treatments used for most kinds of clinically diagnosed tumors. However, the efficacy of these drugs can be hampered by the physical attributes of the tumor tissue that can impede the transport of therapeutic agents to tumor cells in sufficient quantities. As a result, drugs that work well in vitro often fail at clinical trials when confronted with the complexities of interstitial transport within the tumor microenvironment. The microPD model that we developed is used to investigate the penetration of drug molecules through the tumor tissue and influenced by the physical and metabolic properties of tumor microenvironment, and how it affects drug efficacy and the emergence of drug resistance.', u'In order to predict plant responses to rapid climate change, we will need to understand the role of biotic interactions in plant climate adaptation.\nWe extend the stress-gradient (SG) hypothesis to posit that, as interactions become more mutualistic at stressful ends of environmental gradients, so does selection for mutualistic co-adaptation. We call this the stress-gradient evolution hypothesis (SGE). We test our SGE hypothesis in the interactions of teosinte (Zea mays ssp. mexicana) with its rhizosphere soil biota in populations across a climate gradient. In support of SGE predictions, we find local adaptation of teosinte to soil biota at the stressful (cold) end of our climatic gradient but not at the benign (warm) end: sympatric combinations of plants and biota from stressful sites both increase plant fitness and generate more locally adapted plant phenotypes. Our results suggest that co-adaptation of interacting partners may be a means of ameliorating stressful environments.', u'Non-canonical RNA motifs help define the vast complexity of RNA structure and function, and in many cases, these loops and junctions are on the order of only 10 nucleotides in size. Unfortunately, despite their small size, there is no reliable method to determine the ensemble of lowest energy structures of junctions and loops at atomic accuracy. This chapter outlines straightforward protocols using a webserver for Rosetta Fragment Assembly of RNA with Full Atom Refinement (FARFAR) (http://rosie.rosettacommons.org/rna_denovo/submit) to model the 3D structure of small non-canonical RNA motifs for use in visualizing motifs and for further refinement or filtering with experimental data such as NMR chemical shifts.', u"ABSTRACT\nBackground\nCellular senescence has historically been viewed as an irreversible cell cycle arrest that acts to prevent cancer. Recent discoveries demonstrated that cellular senescence also played a vital role in normal embryonic development, tissue renewal and senescence-related diseases. Alternative cleavage and polyadenylation (APA) is an important layer of post-transcriptional regulation, which has been found playing an essential role in development, activation of immune cells and cancer progression. However, the role of APA in the process of cellular senescence remains unclear. \nMaterials and Methods\nWe applied high-throughput paired-end polyadenylation sequencing (PA-seq) and strand-specific RNA-seq sequencing technologies, combined systematic bioinformatics analyses and experimental validation to investigate APA regulation in different passages of mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) and in aortic vascular smooth muscle cells of rats (VSMCs) with different ages.\nResults\nBased on PA-seq, we found that genes in senescent cells tended to use distal pA sites and an independent bioinformatics analysis for RNA-seq drew the same conclusion. In consistent with these global results, both the number of genes significantly preferred to use distal pAs in senescent MEFs and VSMCs were significantly higher than genes tended to use proximal pAs. Interestingly, the expression levels of genes preferred to use distal pAs in senescent MFEs and VSMCs tended to decrease, while genes with single pAs did not show such trend. More importantly, genes preferred to use distal pAs in senescent MFEs and VSMCs were both enriched in common senescence-related pathways, including ubiqutin mediated proteolysis, regulation of actin cytoskeleton, cell cycle and wnt signaling pathway. By cis-elements analyses, we found that the longer 3'UTR; UTRs of the genes tended to use distal pAs progressively can introduce more conserved binding sites of senescence-related miRNAs and RBPs. Furthermore, 375 genes with progressive 3'UTR; UTR lengthening during MEF senescence tended to use more strong and conserved polyadenylation signal (PAS) around distal pA sites and this was accompanied the observation that expression level of core factors involved in cleavage and polyadenylation complex was decreased.\nConclusions\nOur finding that genes preferred distal pAs in senescent mouse and rat cells provide new insights for aging cells' posttranscriptional gene regulation in the view of alternative polyadenylation given senescence response was thought to be a tumor suppression mechanism and more genes tended to use proximal pAs in cancer cells. In short, APA was a hidden layer of post-transcriptional gene expression regulation involved in cellular senescence.", u'The microbiome is the collection of all microbial genes and can be investigated by sequencing highly variable regions of 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) genes. Evidence suggests that environmental factors and host genetics may interact to impact human microbiome composition. Identifying host genetic variants associated with human microbiome composition not only provides clues for characterizing microbiome variation but also helps to elucidate biological mechanisms of genetic associations, prioritize genetic variants, and improve genetic risk prediction. Since a microbiota functions as a community, it is best characterized by beta diversity, that is, a pairwise distance matrix. We develop a statistical framework and a computationally efficient software package, microbiomeGWAS, for identifying host genetic variants associated with microbiome beta diversity with or without interacting with an environmental factor. We show that score statistics have positive skewness and kurtosis due to the dependent nature of the pairwise data, which makes P-value approximations based on asymptotic distributions unacceptably liberal. By correcting for skewness and kurtosis, we develop accurate P-value approximations, whose accuracy was verified by extensive simulations. We exemplify our methods by analyzing a set of 147 genotyped subjects with 16S rRNA microbiome profiles from non-malignant lung tissues. Correcting for skewness and kurtosis eliminated the dramatic deviation in the quantile-quantile plots. We provided preliminary evidence that six established lung cancer risk SNPs were collectively associated with microbiome composition for both unweighted (P=0.0032) and weighted (P=0.011) UniFrac distance matrices. In summary, our methods will facilitate analyzing large-scale genome-wide association studies of the human microbiome.', u"The causes of the known associations between poorer cognitive function and many adverse neuropsychiatric outcomes, poorer physical health, and earlier death remain unknown. We used linkage disequilibrium regression and polygenic profile scoring to test for shared genetic aetiology between cognitive functions and neuropsychiatric disorders and physical health. Using information provided by many published genome-wide association study consortia, we created polygenic profile scores for 24 vascular-metabolic, neuropsychiatric, physiological-anthropometric, and cognitive traits in the participants of UK Biobank, a very large population-based sample (N = 112 151). Pleiotropy between cognitive and health traits was quantified by deriving genetic correlations using summary genome-wide association study statistics applied to the method of linkage disequilibrium regression. Substantial and significant genetic correlations were observed between cognitive test scores in the UK Biobank sample and many of the mental and physical health-related traits and disorders assessed here. In addition, highly significant associations were observed between the cognitive test scores in the UK Biobank sample and many polygenic profile scores, including coronary artery disease, stroke, Alzheimer's disease, schizophrenia, autism, major depressive disorder, BMI, intracranial volume, infant head circumference, and childhood cognitive ability. Where disease diagnosis was available for UK Biobank participants we were able to show that these results were not confounded by those who had the relevant disease. These findings indicate that a substantial level of pleiotropy exists between cognitive abilities and many human mental and physical health disorders and traits and that it can be used to predict phenotypic variance across samples.", u'We present a mathematical model that captures the transitions among three experimentally observed estrogen sensitivity phenotypes in breast cancer cells. Based on this model, a population-level model is created and used to explore the optimization of a therapeutic protocol', u'We describe multiscale transport model, which was developed to simulate drug diffusion and convection in tissues and drug vectors. Models rely on material properties and physical laws of transport.  Our methods show that drug transport analysis may provide deep insight into mechanisms of pharmacokinetics useful in nanotherapeutics and transport study within tumor microenvironment. Because the method relies on material properties and structures, the approach can help studying phenotypical differences as well.', u'Hybridization and polyploidization are considered important driving forces that form new epigenetic regulations. To study the changing patterns of expression accompanying hybridization and polyploidization, we used RNA-seq and qPCR to investigate global expression and homoeologue expression in diploid and allotetraploid hybrids of Carassius auratus red var. (\u2640) (R) and Cyprinus carpio (\u2642) (C). By comparing the relative expression levels between the hybrids and their parents, we defined the expression level dominance (ELD) and homoeologue expression bias (HEB) in liver tissue. The results showed that polyploidization contributed to the conversion of homoeologue ELD. In addition, hybridization had more effect on the change in HEB than polyploidization, while polyploidization has been considered to have more effect on the change of global gene expression than hybridization. Meanwhile, similar expression patterns were found in growth-related genes. The results suggested that hybridization and polyploidization result in differential degrees of maternal HEB in the three tissues tested. The results of this study will increase our understanding of the underlying regulation mechanism of rapid growth in diploid hybrids and allotetraploids. The differential degrees of global expression and homoeologue expression contribute to growth heterosis in newly formed hybrids and allotetraploids, ensuring the on-going success of allopolyploid speciation.', u'G. tomentosum and G. darwinii are wild allotetraploid cotton species, characterized with many excellent traits including finer fiber fineness, drought tolerance, Fusarium wilt and Verticillium wilt resistance. Based on construction of F2 linkage groups of G. hirsutum ?? G. tomentosum and G. hirsutum \xd7 G. darwinii, two genetic linkage maps were compared. As a result we found a total of 7 inversion fragments on chr02, chr05, chr08, chr12, chr14, chr16 and chr25, 3 translocation fragments on chr05, chr14 and chr26. Further comparing the inversion and translocation fragments, we noticed four of seven markers orientation of G. tomentosum consistent with G. hirsutum or G. raimondii, one of seven inversion markers orientation of G. darwinii consistent with G. hirsutum\uff1bmeanwhile one of three translocation marker orientation of G. tomentosum consistent with G. raimondii. The result indicate\uff0ccompare G. darwinii, G. tomentosum has closer genetic relationship to G. hirsutum. This study will play an important role in understanding the genome structure of G. tomentosum and G. darwinii, and open the doors for further in-depth genome research such as fine mapping, tagging genes of interest from wild relatives and evolutionary study.', u"1. Estimates of age-specific mortality are regularly used in ecology, evolution, and conservation research. However, existing methods to estimate mortality from re-sighting records of marked individuals fail at estimating mortality of males for species with male natal dispersal due to the uncertainty surrounding disappearances of adult males from study populations.\n2. Here, we develop a mortality model that imputes dispersal state (i.e., died or left) for uncertain male records as a latent state jointly with the coefficients of a parametric mortality model in a Bayesian hierarchical framework. To check the performance of our model, we first conduct a simulation study. We then apply our model to a long-term data set for African lions. Using these data, we further scrutinise the mortality estimates derived from our model by incrementally reducing the level of uncertainty in the male records. We achieve this by taking advantage of an expert's intuition on the likely fate of each uncertain male record.\n3. We find that our new model produces accurate mortality parameters for simulated data of varying sample sizes and proportions of uncertain male records. From the empirical study we learned that our model provides similar mortality estimates for different levels of uncertainty in male records. However, a sensitivity of the mortality estimates to varying uncertainty is, as can be expected, detectable.\n4. We conclude that our model provides a solution to the challenge of estimating male mortality in species with data-deficiency for males due to natal dispersal. Given the utility of sex-specific mortality estimates in biological and conservation research and the virtual ubiquity of sex-biased dispersal, our model will be useful to a wide variety of applications.", u'Computing object motion is vital for the survival of animals. However, while the brain is processing moving objects, these have already moved to new locations. A well-known visual illusion - the flash lag effect - suggests that the brain has acquired mechanisms to compensate for motion processing delays, so we perceive moving objects closer to their veridical locations. Although many psychophysical models have been suggested to explain this phenomenon, their predictions have not been tested at the neural level, particularly in animals that are known to perceive the illusion. To address this, we recorded neural responses to flashed and moving bars from primary visual cortex (V1) of awake, fixating monkeys. We found that the response latency for moving bars was shorter than that of flashes, in a manner that is consistent with psychophysical results from humans and monkeys. At the level of V1, our results support the differential latency model of the flash lag effect and suggest that an active position judgment - as predicted by the postdiction/motion-biasing model - may not be necessary for observing a neural correlate of the illusion. Our results provide a neural correlate of the flash lag illusion and suggest that the nervous system may have evolved mechanisms to process moving stimuli faster and closer to real time compared with briefly appearing stationary stimuli.', u'There is considerable evidence that people with higher levels of the personality trait\nneuroticism have an increased risk of several types of mental disorder. Higher neuroticism\nhas also been associated, less consistently, with increased risk of various physical health\noutcomes. We hypothesised that these associations may, in part, be due to shared genetic influences. We tested for pleiotropy between neuroticism and 12 mental and physical\ndiseases or health traits using linkage disequilibrium regression and polygenic profile scoring. Genetic correlations were derived between neuroticism scores in 108 038 people in UK Biobank and health-related measures from 12 large genome-wide association studies(GWAS). Summary information for the 12 GWAS was used to create polygenic risk scores\nfor the health-related measures in the UK Biobank participants. Associations between the\nhealth-related polygenic scores and neuroticism were examined using regression, adjusting for age, sex, genotyping batch, genotyping array, assessment centre, and population stratification. Genetic correlations were identified between neuroticism and anorexia nervosa(rg = 0.17), major depressive disorder (rg = 0.66) and schizophrenia (rg = 0.21). Polygenic risk\nfor several health-related measures were associated with neuroticism, in a positive direction in the case of bipolar disorder (\u03b2 = 0.017), major depressive disorder (\u03b2 = 0.036),\nschizophrenia (\u03b2 = 0.036), and coronary artery disease (\u03b2 = 0.011), and in a negative direction in the case of BMI (\u03b2 = -0.0095). These findings indicate that a high level of pleiotropy exists between neuroticism and some measures of mental and physical health, particularly major depressive disorder and schizophrenia.', u'The shape of leaves are dynamic, changing over evolutionary time between species, within a single plant producing different shaped leaves at successive nodes, during the development of a single leaf as it allometrically expands, and in response to the environment. Notably, strong correlations between the dissection and size of leaves with temperature and precipitation exist in both the paleorecord and extant populations. Yet, a morphometric model integrating evolutionary, developmental, and environmental effects on leaf shape is lacking. Here, we continue a morphometric analysis of >5,500 leaves representing 270 grapevines of multiple Vitis species between two growing seasons. Leaves are paired one-to-one, vine-to-vine accounting for developmental context, between growing seasons. Linear Discriminant Analysis reveals shape features that specifically define growing season, regardless of species or developmental context. The shape feature, a more pronounced distal sinus, is associated with the colder, drier growing season, consistent with patterns observed in the paleorecord. We discuss the implications of such plasticity in a long-lived woody perennial, such as grapevine, with respect to the evolution and functionality of plant morphology and changes in climate.', u'We present a type of agent-based model that uses off-lattice spheres to represent individual cells in a solid tumor. The model calculates chemical gradients and determines the dynamics of the tumor as emergent properties of the interactions between the cells. As an example, we present an investigation of cooperation among cancer cells where cooperators secrete a growth factor that is costly to synthesize. Simulations reveal that cooperation is favored when cancer cells from the same lineage stay in close proximity. The result supports the hypothesis that kin selection, a theory that explains the evolution of cooperation in animals, also applies to cancers.', u'Research collaboration is necessary, rewarding, and beneficial. Cohesion between team members is related to their collective efficiency. To assess collaboration processes and their eventual outcomes, agencies need innovative methods - and social network approaches are emerging as a useful analytical tool. We identified the research output and citation data of a network of 61 research groups formally engaged in publishing rare disease research between 2000 and 2013. We drew the collaboration networks for each year and computed the global and local measures throughout the period, relating connectivity with the normalized impact. Although global network measures remained steady over the whole period, the local and subgroup metrics revealed a growing cohesion between the teams. Transitivity and density showed little or no variation throughout the period. In contrast the following points indicated an evolution towards greater network cohesion: the emergence of a giant component (which grew from just 30% to reach 85% of groups); the decreasing number of communities (following a tripling in the average number of members); the growing number of fully connected subgroups; and increasing average strength. Normalized citation measures, although ranking the member groups as above average impact for Spanish biomedical output, do not support correlation between collaboration and citation impact. The Spanish research network on rare diseases has evolved towards a growing cohesion - as revealed by local and subgroup metrics following social network analysis. This greater cohesion does not translate into a greater impact, as measured by the citation analysis of the papers.', u'Numerical model of population behaviour under conditions of full-fed\nexistence of mortal persons in the personal areas, simulated with use the\nfunction of age distribution of birth rate in the form of normal (gaussian)\ndistribution. Graphs of historical changes in the function of age distribution\nof population.', u'Searching for genetic variants with unusual differentiation between subpopulations is an established approach for identifying signals of natural selection.  However, existing methods generally require discrete subpopulations.  We introduce a method that infers selection using principal components (PCs) by identifying variants whose differentiation along top PCs is significantly greater than the null distribution of genetic drift.  To enable the application of this method to large data sets, we developed the FastPCA software, which employs recent advances in random matrix theory to accurately approximate top PCs while reducing time and memory cost from quadratic to linear in the number of individuals, a computational improvement of many orders of magnitude.  We apply FastPCA to a cohort of 54,734 European Americans, identifying 5 distinct subpopulations spanning the top 4 PCs.  Using the PC-based test for natural selection, we replicate previously known selected loci and identify three new genome-wide significant signals of selection, including selection in Europeans at the ADH1B gene.  The coding variant rs1229984*T has previously been associated to a decreased risk of alcoholism and shown to be under selection in East Asians; we show that it is a rare example of independent evolution on two continents.  We also detect new selection signals at IGFBP3 and IGH, which have also previously been associated to human disease.', u'Spatial aggregation or clustering of membrane proteins could be important for their functionality, e.g., in signaling, and nanoscale imaging can be used to study its origins, structure and function. Such studies require accurate characterization of clusters, both for absolute quantification and hypothesis testing. A set of model-free quantification approaches - free of specific cluster models- including the radius of maximal aggregation ra obtained from the maxima of the L(r)-r function as an estimator of cluster size, and the estimation of various cluster parameters based on an exponential approximation for the Pair Correlation Function (PCF), have been proposed for this purpose. However, the parameter identifiability and bias due to their model-free nature are not clear. In practice, the clusters might exhibit specific patterns, and the behavior of these estimators in such cases must be studied. Here, we theoretically analyze these approaches for a\nset\nof cluster models, and obtain information about their identifiability and bias. We find that the ratio between ra and true size depends on both the true size as well as the number of clusters per unit area, or other corresponding parameters, in a model-dependent manner. In particular, ra scales with respect to the true size by a factor that can be arbitrarily large. For the method using PCF approximation, for most models we analyzed, the ratios between approximate and true model parameters were found to be constants that depend only on models and independent of other parameters, and the ratios were found to be within 100% of the true parameters. We also discuss some general issues in inference using second-order spatial properties. While precision could also be key, information on identifiability and accuracy provides clarity on estimation, can lead to better inference and also fuel more accurate method development.', u'Most species are structured and influenced by processes that either increased or reduced gene flow between populations. However, most population genetic inference methods ignore population structure and reconstruct a history characterized by population size changes under the assumption that species behave as panmictic units. This is potentially problematic since population structure can generate spurious signals of population size change. Moreover, when the model assumed for demographic inference is misspecified,  genomic data will likely increase the precision of misleading if not meaningless parameters. In a context of model uncertainty (panmixia \\textit{versus} structure) genomic data may thus not necessarily lead to improved statistical inference.\n\nWe consider two haploid genomes and develop a theory which explains why any demographic model (with or without population size changes) will necessarily be interpreted as a series of changes in population size by inference methods ignoring structure. We introduce a new parameter, the IICR (inverse instantaneous coalescence rate), and show that it is equivalent to a population size only in panmictic models, and mostly misleading for structured models. We argue that this general issue affects all population genetics methods ignoring population structure. We take the PSMC method as an example and show that it infers population size changes that never took place. We apply our approach to human genomic data and find a reduction in gene flow at the start of the Pleistocene, a major increase throughout the Middle-Pleistocene, and an abrupt disconnection preceding the emergence of modern humans.', u"Bacteria with two cell membranes (diderms) have evolved complex systems for protein secretion. These systems were extensively studied in some model bacteria, but the characterisation of their diversity has lagged behind due to lack of standard annotation tools. We built models for accurate identification of protein secretion systems and related appendages in bacteria with LPS-containing outer membranes. They can be used with MacSyFinder (standalone program) or online (http://mobyle.pasteur.fr/cgi-bin/portal.py#forms::txsscan). They include protein profiles and information on the system's composition and genetic organisation. They can be used to search for T1SS-T6SS, T9SS, and accessorily for flagella, Type IV and Tad pili. We identified ~10,000 systems in bacterial genomes, where T1SS and T5SS were by far the most abundant and widespread. The recently described T6SSiii and T9SS were restricted to Bacteroidetes, and T6SSii to Francisella. T2SS, T3SS, and T4SS were frequently encoded in single-copy in one locus, whereas most T1SS were encoded in two loci. The secretion systems of diderm Firmicutes were similar to those found in other diderms. Novel systems may remain to be discovered, since some clades of environmental bacteria lacked all known protein secretion systems. Our models can be fully customized, which should facilitate the identification of novel systems.", u'Integrons recombine gene arrays and favor the spread of antibiotic resistance. However, their broader roles in bacterial adaptation remain mysterious, partly due to lack of computational tools. We made a program - IntegronFinder - and used it to identify integrons in bacterial genomes with high accuracy and sensitivity. Some key taxa, such as \u03b1-Proteobacteria, lacked integrons suggesting they constitute deleterious genetic backgrounds for these elements. Integrons were much more frequent in intermediate size genomes, suggesting selection for compact gene acquisition. We used comparative genomics to quantify the differences between mobile and persistent integrons. The use of a covariance model to identify and align attC sites showed higher intrinsic variability in mobile integrons and a correlation between attC sites homogeneity and the number of integron cassettes. Surprisingly, numerous arrays of attC sites lacked nearby integrases (or pseudogenes of integrases), included many novel cassettes, and exhibited very diverse attC sites. These attC0 elements might provide incoming mobile integrons with a large unexplored pool of novel cassettes in genomes that currently lack integrons. They might also represent an intermediate step of the process of horizontal gene transfer following integron-capture and preceding definitive stabilization by loss of genetic mobility.', u'Background: The availability of whole-genome sequence data from key ancestors provides an exhaustive catalogue of polymorphic sites segregating within and across cattle breeds. Sequence variants from key ancestors can be imputed in animals that have been genotyped using medium- and high-density genotyping arrays. Association analysis with imputed sequences, particularly if applied to multiple traits simultaneously, is a very powerful approach to revealing candidate causal variants underlying complex phenotypes.\nResults: We used whole-genome sequence data from 157 key ancestors of the German Fleckvieh population to impute 20 561 798 sequence variants in 10 363 animals that had (partly imputed) array-derived genotypes at 634 109 SNP. The imputed sequence data were enriched for rare variants. Association studies with imputed sequence variants were performed using seven correlated udder conformation traits as response variables. The calculation of an approximate multi-trait test statistic enabled us to detect twelve major QTL (P<2.97 x 10-9) controlling different aspects of mammary gland morphology. Imputed sequence variants were the most significantly associated at eleven QTL, whereas the top association signal at a QTL on BTA14 resulted from an array-derived variant. Seven QTL were associated with multiple phenotypes. Most QTL were located in non-coding regions of the genome in close neighborhood, however, to plausible candidate genes for mammary gland morphology (SP5, GC, NPFFR2, CRIM1, RXFP2, TBX5, RBM19, ADAM12).\nConclusions: Association analysis with imputed sequence variants allows QTL characterization at maximum resolution. Multi-trait approaches can reveal QTL that are not detected in single-trait association studies. Most QTL for udder conformation traits were located in non-coding elements of the genome suggesting regulatory mutations to be the major determinants of variation in mammary gland morphology in cattle.', u'Type 1 interferons such as interferon-alpha (IFNa) inhibit replication of Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) by upregulating the expression of genes that interfere with specific steps in the viral life cycle. This pathway thus represents a potential target for immune-based therapies that can alter the dynamics of host- virus interactions to benefit the host. To obtain a deeper mechanistic understanding of how IFNa; impacts spreading HIV-1 infection, we modeled the interaction of HIV- 1 with CD4 T cells and IFNa; as a dynamical system. This model was then tested using experimental data from a cell culture model of spreading HIV-1 infection. We found that a model in which IFNa; induces reversible cellular states that block both early and late stages of HIV-1 infection, combined with a saturating rate of conversion to these states, was able to successfully fit the experimental dataset. Sensitivity analysis showed that the potency of inhibition by IFNa; was particularly dependent on specific network parameters and rate constants. This model will be useful for designing new therapies targeting the IFNa; network in HIV-1-infected individuals, as well as potentially serving as a template for understanding the interaction of IFNa; with other viruses.', u'Myriapods are one of the dominant terrestrial arthropod groups including the diverse and familiar centipedes and millipedes. Although molecular evidence has shown that Myriapoda is monophyletic, its internal phylogeny remains contentious and understudied, especially when compared to those of Chelicerata and Hexapoda. Until now, efforts have focused on taxon sampling (e.g., by including a handful of genes in many species) or on maximizing matrix occupancy (e.g., by including hundreds or thousands of genes in just a few species), but a phylogeny maximizing sampling at both levels remains elusive. In this study, we analyzed forty Illumina transcriptomes representing three myriapod classes (Diplopoda, Chilopoda and Symphyla); twenty-five transcriptomes were newly sequenced to maximize representation at the ordinal level in Diplopoda and at the family level in Chilopoda. Eight supermatrices were constructed to explore the effect of several potential phylogenetic biases (e.g., rate of evolution, heterotachy) at three levels of mean gene occupancy per taxon (50%, 75% and 90%). Analyses based on maximum likelihood and Bayesian mixture models retrieved monophyly of each myriapod class, and resulted in two alternative phylogenetic positions for Symphyla, as sister group to Diplopoda + Chilopoda, or closer to Diplopoda, the latter hypothesis having been traditionally supported by morphology. Within centipedes, all orders were well supported, but two nodes remained in conflict in the different analyses despite dense taxon sampling at the family level, situating the order Scolopendromorpha as sister group to a morphologically-anomalous grouping of Lithobiomorpha + Geophilomorpha in a subset of analyses. Interestingly, this anomalous result was obtained for all analyses conducted with the most complete matrix (90% of occupancy), being at odds not only with the sparser but more gene-rich supermatrices (75% and 50% supermatrices) or with the matrices optimizing phylogenegic informativeness and the most conserved genes, but also with previous hypotheses based on morphology, development or other molecular data sets. We discuss the implications of these findings in the context of the ever more prevalent quest for completeness in phylogenomic studies.', u'Many disease-related genotype variations (GVs) reside in non-gene coding regions and the mechanisms of their association with diseases are largely unknown. A possible impact of GVs on disease formation is to alter the spatial organization of chromosome. However, the relationship between GVs and 3D genome structure has not been studied at the chromosome scale. The kilobase resolution of chromosomal structures measured by Hi-C have provided an unprecedented opportunity to tackle this problem. Here we proposed a network-based method to capture global properties of the chromosomal structure. We uncovered that genome organization is scale free and the genomic loci interacting with many other loci in space, termed as hubs, are critical for stabilizing local chromosomal structure. Importantly, we found that cancer-specific GVs target hubs to drastically alter the local chromosomal interactions. These analyses revealed the general principles of 3D genome organization and provided a new direction to pinpoint genotype variations in non-coding regions that are critical for disease formation.', u'The joint and accurate inference of selection and demography from genetic data is considered a particularly challenging question in population genetics, since both process may lead to very similar patterns of genetic diversity. However, additional information for disentangling these effects may be obtained by observing changes in allele frequencies over multiple time points. Such data is common in experimental evolution studies, as well as in the comparison of ancient and contemporary samples. Leveraging this information, however, has been computationally challenging, particularly when considering multi-locus data sets. To overcome these issues, we introduce a novel, discrete approximation for diffusion processes, termed \\textit{mean transition time approximation}, which preserves the long-term behavior of the underlying continuous diffusion process. We then derive this approximation for the particular case of inferring selection and demography from time series data under the classic Wright-Fisher model and demonstrate that our approximation is well suited to describe allele trajectories through time, even when only a few states are used. We then develop a Bayesian inference approach to jointly infer the population size and locus-specific selection coefficients with high accuracy, and further extend this model to also infer the rates of sequencing errors and mutations. We finally apply our approach to recent experimental data on the evolution of drug resistance in Influenza virus, identifying likely targets of selection and finding evidence for much larger viral population sizes than previously reported.', u'IVF related intrauterus growth restriction or low birth weight (LBW) is very common in ART clinic. This study is focus on the aberrant lipid metabolism induced by in vitro fertilization and its mechanism. Firstly, we investigated the effect of IVF on fetal weight and placenta efficiency at E18.5 (at birth) and E14.5 (middle gestation). Data shows that IVF caused LBW and low placenta efficiency. Then we studied the lipidomics of E18.5 placenta and E14.5 placenta. The IVF group has an eccentric lipid content compared to in vivo group. All the 15 lipid classes are largely accumulated in E18.5 IVF placenta and are deficient in E14.5 IVF placenta. In detail, most of the 287 lipid species is accumulated at E18.5 and went short at E14.5. Using qRT-PCR we detected the expression level of genes related to lipid uptake, transport and metabolism. Most of these genes are down-regulated which indicated the metabolism function of placenta is disrupted seriously. To the imprinted genes for lipid metabolism regulation as GNAS and Grb10, IVF not only disrupt their imprinting status (methylation level) but also disrupt their gene expression. The expression of DNMTs and Tets are also disrupted in the placenta. These data demonstrate that IVF impaired the regulation network of lipid metabolism. These results prove the hypothesis: imperfect IVF condition of fertilization jeopardize the expression DNMTs, Tets and imprinting status of imprinted genes for lipid metabolism regulation. Then it causes to abnormal expression of genes for lipid metabolism and regulation. This leads to the significant differences in lipid species quantification and lipid metabolism. So it contributed to low lipid transport efficiency, restricted fetal growth and LBW. This study provides a renewed knowledge of lipid metabolism in placenta and its relation to imprinted genes and gave some clinical aware for optimizing the ART practice.', u'We present a dynamical model of drug accumulation in bacteria. The model captures key features in experimental time courses on ofloxacin accumulation: initial uptake; short-term response; and long-term adaptation. In combination with experimental data, the model provides estimates of import and export rates in each phase, the latency in the short-term response, and the rate of increase in efflux during adaptation. Global sensitivity analysis, local sensitivity analysis, and Bayesian sensitivity analysis of the model provide information about the robustness of these estimates, and about the relative importance of different features of the accumulation time courses in three different bacterial species: Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus aureus, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The results lead to experimentally testable predictions of membrane permeability and drug efflux and trapping, which influence drug resistance. A key prediction is that an increase in E. coli ofloxacin accumulation is accompanied by a decrease in membrane permeability, suggesting that, depending on changes in other factors, decreasing permeability is not always an effective drug resistance strategy.', u'The study of modularity in morphological systems has increased in the past twenty years, parallel to the popularization of geometric morphometrics, which has led to the emergence of different criteria for detecting modularity on landmark data. However, compared to usual covariance matrix estimators, Procrustes estimators have properties that hinder their use. Here, we compare different representations of form, focusing on detecting modularity patterns defined a priori; we also compare two metrics: one derived from traditional morphometrics (MHI) and another that emerged in the context of landmark data (RV). Using Anthropoid skulls, we compare these metrics over three representations of form: interlandmark distances, Procrustes residuals, and local shape variables. Over Procrustes residuals, both tests fail to detect modularity patterns, while in remaining representations they show the distinction between early and late development in skull ontogeny. To estimate type I and II error rates, we built covariance matrices of known structure; these tests indicate that, considering both effect and sample sizes, tests using MHI are more robust than those using RV. However, both metrics have low power when used on Procrustes residuals. Thus, we conclude that the influence of development and function is poorly represented on Procrustes estimators for covariance matrices.', u'As new proposals aim to sequence ever larger collection of humans, it is critical to have a quantitative framework to evaluate the statistical power of these projects. We developed a new algorithm, UnseenEst, and applied it to the exomes of 60,706 individuals to estimate the frequency distribution of all protein-coding variants, including rare variants that have not been observed yet in the current cohorts. Our results quantified the number of new variants that we expect to identify as sequencing cohorts reach hundreds of thousands of individuals. With 500K individuals, we find that we expect to capture 7.5% of all possible loss-of-function variants and 12% of all possible missense variants. We also estimate that 2,900 genes have loss-of-function frequency of less than 0.00001 in healthy humans, consistent with very strong intolerance to gene inactivation.', u'Agricultural management can have lasting impacts on microbial community structure and function through changes in biotic (i.e., plant inputs) and abiotic (i.e., soil fertility) soil properties. Enhancing biodiversity is expected to increase ecosystem functions, and in an agricultural context, such functions include enhanced plant production and pest suppression. For example, disease suppressive soils are characterized by the biocontrol properties provided by resident soil microorganisms capable of producing antifungal or antibacterial compounds known to suppress the growth of soil-borne pathogens. In this study, we investigated the impact of long-term crop diversity on microbial communities and disease suppressive functional potential in soils. In 2012, we collected soil samples from the Biodiversity Gradient Experiment (established in 2000) at the Kellogg Biological Station Long-Term Ecological Research (KBS-LTER) site. We sampled 7 treatments along the crop diversity gradient (monoculture to 5 crop species) and a spring fallow treatment to examine the influence of crop diversity on total bacterial community composition (16S rRNA amplicon sequencing) and a subset of microorganisms capable of producing antifungal compounds (2,4-diacetylphloroglucinol: phlD gene fingerprint analysis; pyrrolnitrin: prnD gene quantitative PCR). Our study revealed that crop diversity significantly influenced bacterial community composition and abundance of disease suppressive functional groups. Variation in plant inputs to soil organic matter pools may be a possible mechanism driving shifts in microbial community patterns and disease suppressive functional potential.', u'Across a species range, islands of stressful habitats impose similar selection pressures on isolated populations. It is as yet unclear, when populations respond to these selective pressures, the extent to which this results in convergent genetic evolution and whether convergence is due to independent mutations or shared ancestral variation. We address these questions investigating a classic example of adaptation by natural selection - the colonization of plant species to heavy metal contaminated soils.  We use field-based reciprocal transplant experiments to demonstrate that mine alleles at a major copper tolerance QTL, Tol1, are strongly selected in the mine environment, but are neutral, or nearly so, in the off-mine environment. We assemble the genome of a mine adapted genotype and identify regions of this genome in tight genetic linkage to Tol1. We discover Tol1 candidate genes that exhibit significantly large differences in expression between tolerant and non-tolerant genotypes or in allele frequency between mine/off-mine population pairs. We identify a single gene, a multicopper oxidase, which exhibits both large differences in expression and allele frequency. Furthermore, patterns of genetic variation at the five loci with the greatest difference in allele frequency between populations, including the multicopper oxidase, are consistent with selection acting upon beneficial haplotypes that predates the existence of the copper mine habitat. We estimate the age of selected Tol1 haplotype to be at least 1700 years old and was at a frequency of 0.4-0.6% in the ancestral population when mining was initiated 150 years ago. These results suggest that adaptation to the mine habitat routinely occurs via selection on ancestral variation, rather than independent de-novo mutations or migration between populations.', u'The Axon Initial Segment [AIS], located within the first 30 \u03bcm of the axon, has two essential roles in generating action potentials and maintaining axonal identity. AIS assembly depends on a \u03b2IV-spectrin / ankyrin G scaffold, but its macromolecular arrangement is not well understood. Here we quantitatively determined the AIS nanoscale architecture using STochastic Optical Reconstruction Microscopy [STORM]. First we directly demonstrate that the 190-nm periodicity of the AIS submembrane lattice results from longitudinal, head-to-head \u03b2IV-spectrin molecules connecting actin rings. Using multicolor 3D-STORM, we resolve the nanoscale organization of ankyrin G: its aminoterminus associates with the submembrane lattice, whereas the carboxyterminus radially extends (~32 nm on average) toward the cytosol. This AIS nano-architecture is highly resistant to cytoskeletal perturbations, advocating its role in structural stabilization. Our findings provide a comprehensive view of the AIS molecular architecture, and will help understanding the crucial physiological functions of this compartment.', u'In contrast to XX/XY species, Z-linked expression is overall reduced in female WZ/ZZ species compared to males or the autosomal expression. This pattern (Z<ZZ\u2248AA) has been consistently reported in all the WZ/ZZ taxa examined so far, with the singular exception of the insect order of Lepidoptera (moths and butterflies). However, conflicting results linger in this taxon due to discrepancies in data analyses and tissues sampled. To address this issue, we analyzed dosage compensation in the codling moth Cydia pomonella (Tortricidae) using tissues that represent different levels of sexual divergence. C. pomonella is the most basal lepidopteran species yet examined for dosage compensation and has a neo-Z chromosome resulting from an ancient Z:autosome translocation. We based our analyses on RNAseq and de novo transcriptome data from C. pomonella, as well as scrutiny into investigations of other lepidopteran species. Our evidence supports that the lepidopterans share a pattern (Z\u2248ZZ<AA) of dosage compensation that mirrors the eutherian mammals (X\u2248XX<AA). In particular, reproductive tissues appear to be exempt from dosage compensation, which helps explain the incongruence in prior reports. Furthermore, C. pomonella ancestral-Z segment exhibited a greater expression reduction than genes on the neo-Z segment, which intriguingly also reflects the differential up-regulation between the ancestral and newly-acquired X-linked genes in mammals. The insect order of Lepidoptera challenges both the classic theories regarding evolution of sex chromosome dosage compensation and the emerging view on association of dosage compensation with sexual heterogamety.', u'The Center for Disease Control estimates 128,000 people in the U.S. are hospitalized annually due to food borne illnesses. This has created a demand for food safety testing targeting the detection of pathogenic mold and bacteria on agricultural products. This risk extends to medical Cannabis and is of particular concern with inhaled, vaporized and even concentrated Cannabis products. As a result, third party microbial testing has become a regulatory requirement in the medical and recreational Cannabis markets, yet knowledge of the Cannabis microbiome is limited. Here we describe the first next generation sequencing survey of the microbial communities found in dispensary based Cannabis flowers and demonstrate the limitations in the culture based regulations that are being superimposed from the food industry.', u'ABSTRACT\nBackground\nEscherichia coli sequence type 131 (ST131) has emerged globally as the most predominant lineage within this clinically important species, and its association with fluoroquinolone and extended-spectrum cephalosporin resistance impacts significantly on treatment. The evolutionary histories of this lineage, and of important antimicrobial resistance elements within it, remain unclearly defined. \nResults\nThis study of the largest worldwide collection (n = 215) of sequenced ST131 E. coli isolates to date demonstrates that clonal expansion of two previously recognized antimicrobial-resistant clades, C1/H30R and C2/H30Rx, started around 25 years ago, consistent with the widespread introduction of fluoroquinolones and extended-spectrum cephalosporins in clinical medicine. These two clades appear to have emerged in the United States, with the expansion of the C2/H30Rx clade driven by the acquisition of a blaCTX-M-15-containing IncFII-like plasmid that has subsequently undergone extensive rearrangement. Several other evolutionary processes influencing the trajectory of this drug-resistant lineage are described, including sporadic acquisitions of CTX-M resistance plasmids, and chromosomal integration of blaCTX-M within sub-clusters followed by vertical evolution. These processes are also occurring for another family of CTX-M gene variants more recently observed amongst ST131, the blaCTX-M-14/14-like group. \nConclusions\nThe complexity of the evolutionary history of ST131 has important implications for antimicrobial resistance surveillance, epidemiological analysis, and control of emerging clinical lineages of E. coli. These data also highlight the global imperative to reduce specific antibiotic selection pressures, and demonstrate the important and varied roles played by plasmids and other mobile genetic elements in the perpetuation of antimicrobial resistance within lineages.', u'Locally adapted populations are often used as model systems for the early stages of ecological speciation, but most of these young divergent lineages will never become complete species. While the collapse of incipient species is theoretically common, very few examples have been documented in nature.  Here I show that soapberry bugs (Jadera haematoloma) have lost adaptations to their native host plant (Cardiospermum corindum) and are regionally specializing on an invasive host plant (Koelreuteria elegans), collapsing a classic and well-documented example of local adaptation. All populations that were adapted to the native host - including those still found on that host today - are now better adapted to the invasive in multiple phenotypes.  Weak differentiation remains in two traits, suggesting that homogenization across the region is incomplete.  This study highlights the potential for adaptation to invasive species to disrupt native communities by swamping adaptation to native conditions through maladaptive gene flow.', u'Although fitness costs of adaptation to herbicide are widely expected, they are not universally detected, calling into question their generality. This lack of identified costs could be due to experimental constraints such as a limited focus on measures of plant fecundity and low replication. Here we examine the potential for a cost of herbicide resistance on seed germination, root growth, and above-ground growth using 43 naturally occurring populations of Ipomoea purpurea that vary in their resistance to RoundUp, the most commonly used herbicide worldwide. We show substantial costs in all three traits. Highly resistant populations had lower germination rates, slower root growth and slower above-ground growth. A visual exploration of the data indicated that the type of cost may differ and even trade off among populations. We place our findings into a broad context using a simple model to show that the strength of the germination cost could act to slow the rate of resistance evolution in this species. Our results demonstrate that costs of adaptation may be present at stages other than the production of progeny. Additionally, the cumulative effect of costs at multiple life cycle stages can result in severe consequences to fitness when adapting to novel environments.', u'The active form of vitamin D, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25D), plays an important immunomodulatory role, regulating transcription of genes in the innate and adaptive immune system. The present study examines patterns of transcriptome-wide response to 1,25D and the bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in primary human monocytes, to better understand the pathways underlying the effects of 1,25D on the immune system. Monocytes obtained from healthy individuals of African-African and European-American ancestry were treated with 1,25D alone or in the presence of LPS, which induced significant up-regulation of genes in the antimicrobial and autophagy pathways, while pro-inflammatory response genes were significantly down-regulated. A joint Bayesian analysis enabled clustering of genes into patterns of shared transcriptional response across treatments. The biological pathways enriched within these expression patterns highlighted several mechanisms through which could 1,25D exert its immunomodulatory role. Pathways such as mTOR signaling, EIF2 signaling, IL-8 signaling and Tec Kinase signaling were enriched among genes with opposite transcription responses to 1,25D and LPS, highlighting the important roles of these pathways in mediating the immunomodulatory activity of 1,25D. Furthermore, a subset of genes with evidence of inter-ethnic differential expression patterns was also identified, indicating that in addition to the well established inter-ethnic variation in circulating levels of vitamin D, the intensity of transcriptional response to 1,25D and LPS also varies between ethnic groups. Dysregulation of the pathways identified in this study through variations in transcriptional response to 1,25D and LPS could contribute to disease risk.', u'Shared genetic architecture between phenotypes may be driven by a common genetic basis (pleiotropy) or a subset of genetically similar individuals (heterogeneity). We developed BUHMBOX, a well-powered statistical method to distinguish pleiotropy from heterogeneity using genotype data. We observed a shared genetic basis between 11 of 17 tested autoimmune diseases and type I diabetes (T1D, p<10 12) and 11 of 17 tested autoimmune diseases and rheumatoid arthritis (RA, p<10-7). This sharing could not be explained by heterogeneity (corrected pBUHMBOX>0.2 using 6,670 T1D cases and 7,279 RA cases), suggesting that shared genetic features in autoimmunity are due to pleiotropy. We observed a shared genetic basis between seronegative and seropostive RA (p<10-22), explained by heterogeneity (pBUHMBOX=0.008 in 2,406 seronegative RA cases). Consistent with previous observations, we observed genetic sharing between major depressive disorder (MDD) and schizophrenia (p<10 9). This sharing is not explained by heterogeneity (pBUHMBOX=0.28 in 9,238 MDD cases).', u'Whole genome sequencing on next-generation instruments provides an unbiased way to identify the organisms present in complex metagenomic samples. However, the time-to-result can be protracted because of fixed-time sequencing runs and cumbersome bioinformatics workflows. This limits the utility of the approach in settings where rapid species identification is crucial, such as in the quality control of food-chain components, or in during an outbreak of an infectious disease. Here we present What\u2032s in my Pot? (WIMP), a laboratory and analysis workflow in which, starting with an unprocessed sample, sequence data is generated and bacteria, viruses and fungi present in the sample are classified to subspecies and strain level in a quantitative manner, without prior knowledge of the sample composition, in approximately 3.5 hours. This workflow relies on the combination of Oxford Nanopore Technologies\u2032 MinION \u2122 sensing device with a real-time species identification bioinformatics application.', u'Flux balance analysis (FBA) is an increasingly useful approach for modeling the behavior of metabolic systems.  However, standard FBA modeling of genetic knockouts can not predict drug combination synergies observed between serial metabolic targets, even though such synergies give rise to some of the most widely used antibiotic treatments.  Here we extend FBA modeling to simulate responses to chemical inhibitors at varying concentrations, by diverting enzymatic flux to a waste reaction. This flux diversion yields very similar qualitative predictions to prior methods for single target activity.  However, we find very different predictions for combinations, where flux diversion, which mimics the kinetics of competitive metabolic inhibitors, can explain serial target synergies between metabolic enzyme inhibitors that we confirmed in Escherichia coli cultures.  FBA flux diversion opens the possibility for more accurate genome-scale predictions of drug synergies, which can be used to suggest treatments for infections and other diseases.', u'Summary: Advances in sequencing capacity have lead to the generation of unprecedented amounts of genomic data. The processing of this data frequently leads to I/O bottlenecks, e.g. when analyzing a small genomic region across a large number of samples. The largest I/O burden is, however, often not imposed by the amount of data needed for the analysis but rather by index files that help retrieving this data. We have developed chopBAI, a program that can chop a BAM index (BAI) file into small pieces. The program outputs a list of BAI files each indexing a specified genomic interval. The output files are much smaller in size but maintain compatibility with existing software tools. We show how preprocessing BAI files with chopBAI can lead to a reduction of I/O by more than 95 % during the analysis of 10 Kbp genomic regions, eventually enabling the joint analysis of more than 10,000 individuals.\nAvailability and Implementation: The software is implemented in C++, GPL licensed and available at http://github.com/DecodeGenetics/chopBAI\nContact: birte.kehr@decode.is', u'For the past 15 years, the UCSC Genome Browser (http://genome.ucsc.edu/) has served the international research community by offering an integrated platform for viewing and analyzing information from a large database of genome assemblies and their associated annotations. The UCSC Genome Browser has been under continuous development since its inception with new data sets and software features added frequently. Some release highlights of this year include new and updated genome browsers for various assemblies, including bonobo and zebrafish; new gene annotation sets; improvements to track and assembly hub support; and a new interactive tool, the "Data Integrator", for intersecting data from multiple tracks. We have greatly expanded the data sets available on the most recent human assembly, hg38/GRCh38, to include updated gene prediction sets from GENCODE, more phenotype- and disease-associated variants from ClinVar and ClinGen, more genomic regulatory data, and a new multiple genome alignment.', u'Spike patterns are among the most common electrophysiological descriptors of neuron types. Surprisingly, it is not clear how the diversity in firing patterns of the neurons in a network affects its activity dynamics. Here, we introduce the state-dependent stochastic bursting neuron model allowing for a change in its firing patterns independent of changes in its input-output firing rate relationship. Using this model, we show that the effect of single neuron spiking on the network dynamics is contingent on the network activity state. While spike bursting can both generate and disrupt oscillations, these patterns are ineffective in large regions of the network state space in changing the network activity qualitatively. Finally, we show that when single-neuron properties are made dependent on the population activity, a hysteresis like dynamics emerges. This novel phenomenon has important implications for determining the network response to time-varying inputs and for the network sensitivity at different operating points.', u'Metagenome shotgun sequence data offer the potential for large scale biogeographic analysis of microbial species.  In this project we developed a method for detecting 33 common subtypes of the pathogenic bacterium Staphylococcus aureus.  We used a binomial mixture model implemented in the binstrain software and the coverage counts at > 100,000 known S. aureus SNP (single nucleotide polymorphism) sites derived from prior comparative genomic analysis to estimate the proportion of each subtype in metagenome samples.  Using this pipeline we were able to obtain > 87% sensitivity and > 94% specificity when testing on low genome coverage samples of diverse S. aureus strains (0.025X).  We found that 321 and 149 metagenome samples from the Human Microbiome Project and metaSUB analysis of the New York City subway, respectively, contained S. aureus at genome coverage > 0.025.  In both projects, CC8 and CC30 were the most common S. aureus subtypes encountered.  We found evidence that the subtype composition at different body sites of the same individual were more similar than random sampling and more limited evidence that certain body sites were enriched for particular subtypes.  One surprising finding was the apparent high frequency of CC398, a lineage associated with livestock, in samples from the  tongue dorsum.  Epidemiologic analysis of the HMP subject population suggested that high BMI (body mass index) and health insurance are risk factors for S. aureus but there was limited power to find factors linked to carriage of even the most common subtype. In the NYC subway data, we found a small signal of geographic distance affecting subtype clustering but other unknown factors influence taxonomic distribution of the species around the city.  We argue that pathogen detection in metagenome samples requires the use of subtypes based on whole species population genomic analysis rather than using ad hoc collections of reference strains.', u'The circadian clock is a fundamental feature of gene regulation and cell physiology in eukaryotes and some prokaryotes, and an exemplar gene regulatory network in Systems Biology. The circadian system in Arabidopsis thaliana is complex in part due to its photo-transduction pathways. Analysis of natural genetic variation between Arabidopsis accessions Cape Verde Islands (Cvi-0) and Landsberg erecta (Ler) identified a major, temperature-specific Quantitative Trait Locus (QTL) on chromosome V that altered the circadian period of leaf movement (Edwards et al., Genetics, 2005). We tested Near-Isogenic Lines (NILs) to confirm that Ler alleles at this PerCv5c QTL lengthened the circadian period at 12\xb0C, with little effect at higher temperatures. The PHYTOCHROME C gene lies within the QTL interval, and contains multiple sequence variants. Plants carrying either a T-DNA-insertion into PHYC or a deletion of PHYC also lengthened circadian period under white light, except at 27\xb0C. phyB and phyABE mutants lengthened period only at 12\xb0C. These results extend recent data showing PhyC effects in red light, confirming the number of photoreceptor proteins implicated in the plant circadian system at eleven. The connection between light input mechanisms and temperature effects on the clock is reinforced. Natural genetic variation within PHYC is likely to underlie the PerCv5c QTL. Our results suggest that functional variation within the PHYC-Ler haplotype group might contribute to the evolution of the circadian system and possibly to clock-related phenotypes such as flowering time. These results have previously passed peer-review, so we provide them in this citable preprint.', u'The growth in genome-scale assays of gene expression for different species in publicly available databases presents new opportunities for computational methods that aid in hypothesis generation and biological interpretation of these data. Here, we present an unsupervised machine-learning approach, ADAGE (Analysis using Denoising Autoencoders of Gene Expression) and apply it to the interpretation of all of the publicly available gene expression data for Pseudomonas aeruginosa, an important opportunistic bacterial pathogen. In post-hoc positive control analyses using curated knowledge, the P. aeruginosa ADAGE model found that co-operonic genes often participated in similar processes and accurately predicted which genes had similar functions. By analyzing newly generated data and previously published microarray and RNA-seq data, the ADAGE model identified gene expression differences between strains, modeled the cellular response to low oxygen, and predicted the involvement of biological processes despite low level expression differences in directly involved genes. Comparison of ADAGE with PCA and ICA revealed that ADAGE extracts distinct signals. We provide the ADAGE model with analysis of all publicly available P. aeruginosa GeneChip experiments, and we provide open source code for use in other species and settings.', u'While eukaryotic noncoding RNAs have recently received intense scrutiny, it is becoming clear that bacterial transcription is at least as pervasive. Bacterial small RNAs and antisense RNAs (sRNAs) are often assumed to be noncoding, due to their lack of long open reading frames (ORFs). However, there are numerous examples of sRNAs encoding for small proteins, whether or not they also have a regulatory role at the RNA level. Here, we apply flexible machine learning techniques based on sequence features and comparative genomics to quantify the prevalence of sRNA ORFs under natural selection to maintain protein-coding function in phylogenetically diverse bacteria. A majority of annotated sRNAs have at least one ORF between 10 and 50 amino acids long, and we conservatively predict that 188 \xb1 25.5 unannotated sRNA ORFs are under selection to maintain coding, an average of 13 per species considered here. This implies that overall at least 7.5 \xb1 0.3% of sRNAs have a coding ORF, and in some species at least 20% do. 84 \xb1 9.8 of these novel coding ORFs have some antisense overlap to annotated ORFs. As experimental validation, many of our predictions are translated according to ribosome profiling data and are identified via mass spectrometry shotgun proteomics. B. subtilis sRNAs with coding ORFs are enriched for high expression in biofilms and confluent growth, and two S. pneumoniae sRNAs with coding ORFs are involved in virulence. sRNA coding ORFs are enriched for transmembrane domains and many are novel components of type I toxin/antitoxin systems. Our predictions for sRNA coding ORFs, including novel type I toxins, are freely available in a user-friendly format at http://disco-bac.web.pasteur.fr.', u'The flagellum is a large proteinaceous organelle found at the surface of many bacteria, whose primary role is to allow motility through the rotation of a long extracellular filament. It is an essential virulence factor in many pathogenic species, and is also a priming component in the formation of antibiotic-resistant biofilms. The flagellum consists of the export apparatus and stator in the cytosol; the basal body, spanning the bacterial membrane(s) and periplasm; and the hook-filament, that protrudes away from the bacterial surface. Assembly of the bacterial flagellum is initiated by the formation of the basal body MS ring region, constituted of multiple copies of the protein FliF. Here, I report an analysis of the FliF sequence from various bacterial species, demonstrating that its periplasmic region is composed of a domain homologuous to that of the type III secretion system proteins PrgK, and of a second globular domain that possesses a similar fold to that of the sporulation complex component SpoIIIAG. I also report a structural model for the FliF oligomer, based on knowledge of the PrgK oligomer. These results further emphasize the similarity between the flagellum, T3SS and sporulation complex, and will facilitate further structural studies.', u'Deer farming is a significant international industry. For genetic improvement, using genomic tools, an ordered array of DNA variants and associated flanking sequence across the genome is required. This work reports a comparative assembly of the deer genome and subsequent DNA variant identification. Next generation sequencing combined with an existing bovine reference genome enabled the deer genome to be assembled sufficiently for large-scale SNP discovery.  In total, 28 Gbp of sequence data were generated from seven Cervus elaphus (European red deer and Canadian elk) individuals.  After aligning sequence to the bovine reference genome build UMD 3.0 and binning reads into one Mbp groups; reads were assembled and analyzed for SNPs. Greater than 99% of the non-repetitive fraction of the bovine genome was covered by deer chromosomal scaffolds. We identified 1.8 million SNPs meeting Illumina InfiniumII SNP chip technical threshold. Markers on the published Red x Pere David deer linkage map were aligned to both UMD3.0 and the new deer chromosomal scaffolds.  This enabled deer linkage groups to be assigned to deer chromosomal scaffolds, although the mapping locations remain based on bovine order.  Genotyping of 270 SNPs on a Sequenom MS system showed that 88% of SNPs identified could be amplified.  Also, inheritance patterns showed no evidence of departure from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. A comparative assembly of the deer genome, alignment with existing deer genetic linkage groups and SNP discovery has been successfully completed and validated facilitating application of genomic technologies for subsequent deer genetic improvement.', u'Electron cryo-tomography (cryo-ET) and sub-tomogram averaging allow structure determination of macromolecules in situ, and are gaining in popularity for initial model generation for single- particle analysis. We describe herein, a protocol for sub-tomogram averaging from cryo-ET data using the RELION software. We describe how to calculate newly developed three-dimensional models for the contrast transfer function and the missing wedge of each sub-tomogram, and how to use these models for regularized-likelihood refinement. This approach has been implemented in the existing workflow for single-particle analysis, so that users may conveniently tap into existing capabilities of the RELION software. As example applications, we present analyses of purified hepatitis B capsid particles and S. cerevisiae 80S ribosomes. In both cases, we show that following initial classification, sub-tomogram averaging in RELION allows de novo generation of initial models, and provides high-resolution maps where secondary structure elements are resolved.', u"Measures of similarity between diseases have been used for applications from discovering drug-target interactions to identifying disease-gene relationships.  It is challenging to quantitatively compare diseases because much of what we know about them is captured in free text descriptions. Here we present an application of Latent Dirichlet Allocation as a way to measure similarity between diseases using textual descriptions. We learn latent topic representations of text from Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man records and use them to compute similarity.  We assess the performance of this approach by comparing our results to manually curated relationships from the Disease Ontology.   Despite being unsupervised, our model recovers a record's curated Disease Ontology relations  with a mean Receiver Operating Characteristic Area Under the Curve of 0.80.  With low dimensional models, topics tend to represent higher level information about affected organ systems, while higher dimensional models capture more granular genetic and phenotypic information.  We examine topic representations of diseases for mapping concepts between ontologies and for tagging existing text with concepts.  We conclude topic modeling on disease text leads to a robust approach to computing similarity that does not depend on keywords or ontology.", u'Whereas polyploidy is common and an important evolutionary factor in most land plant lineages it is a real rarity in gymnosperms. Coast redwood (Sequoia sempervirens) is the only hexaploid conifer and one of just two naturally polyploid conifer species. Numerous hypotheses about the mechanism of polyploidy in Sequoia and parental genome donors have been proffered over the years, primarily based on morphological and cytological data, but it remains unclear how Sequoia became polyploid and why this lineage overcame an apparent gymnosperm barrier to whole-genome duplication (WGD). We sequenced transcriptomes and used phylogenetic inference, Bayesian concordance analysis, and paralog age distributions to resolve relationships among gene copies in hexaploid coast redwood and its close relatives. Our data show that hexaploidy in the coast redwood lineage is best explained by autopolyploidy or, if there was allopolyploidy, this was restricted to within the Californian redwood clade. We found that duplicate genes have more similar sequences than would be expected given evidence from fossil guard cell size which suggest that polyploidy dates to the Eocene. Conflict between molecular and fossil estimates of WGD can be explained if diploidization occurred very slowly following whole genome duplication. We extrapolate from this to suggest that the rarity of polyploidy in conifers may be due to slow rates of diploidization in this clade.', u'Background: Microvillus inclusion disease (MVID) is a life threatening enteropathy characterised by perpetual diarrhoea. Recent analysis has revealed that enterocytes in MVID patients exhibit reduction of microvilli, presence of microvillus inclusion bodies and intestinal villus atrophy. Genetic linkage analysis has identified mutations in myosin Vb gene as the main cause of MVID. An animal model that develops ex-utero and is tractable genetically as well as by microscopy would be highly useful to study the cellular basis of the formation of inclusion bodies.\nResults: Here we report that the intestine of the zebrafish goosepimples (gsp)/myosin Vb (myoVb) mutant show severe reduction in the intestinal folds- structures similar to mammalian villi. The loss of folds is further correlated with changes in the shape of enterocytes. In a striking similarity with MVID patients, zebrafish gsp/myoVb mutant larvae exhibit microvillus atrophy, microvillus inclusions and accumulation of secretory material in enterocytes. \nConclusion: We propose that the zebrafish gsp/myoVb mutant is a valuable model to study the pathophysiology of MVID. Owing to the advantages of zebrafish in screening libraries of small molecules, the gsp mutant will be an appropriate tool to identify compounds that would alleviate the formation of microvillus inclusions and have therapeutic value.', u'Background: High throughput sequencing (HTS) has become one of the primary experimental tools used to extract genomic information from biological samples. Bioinformatics tools are continuously being developed for the analysis of HTS data. Beyond some well-defined core analyses, such as quality control or genomic alignment, the consistent development of custom tools and the representation of sequencing data in organized computational structures and entities remains a challenging effort for bioinformaticians.\n\nResults: In this work, we present GenOO [jee-noo], an open-source; object-oriented (OO) Perl framework specifically developed for the design and implementation of HTS analysis tools. GenOO models biological entities such as genes and transcripts as Perl objects, and includes relevant modules, attributes and methods that allow for the manipulation of high throughput sequencing data. GenOO integrates these elements in a simple and transparent way which allows for the creation of complex analysis pipelines minimizing the overhead for the researcher. GenOO has been designed with flexibility in mind, and has an easily extendable modular structure with minimal requirements for external tools and libraries. As an example of the framework\u2019s capabilities and usability, we present a short and simple walkthrough of a custom use case in HTS analysis.\n\nConclusions: GenOO is a tool of high software quality which can be efficiently used for advanced HTS analyses. It has been used to develop several custom analysis tools, leading to a number of published works. Using GenOO as a core development module can greatly benefit users, by reducing the overhead and complexity of managing HTS data and biological entities at hand.', u'Here, we predict gene expression from epigenetic features based on public data available through the Epigenome Roadmap Project.  This rich new dataset includes samples from primary tissues, which to our knowledge have not previously been studied in this context.  Specifically, we used computational machine learning algorithms on five histone modifications to predict gene expression in a variety of samples.  Our models reveal a high predictive accuracy, especially in cell cultures, with predictive ability dependent on sample type and anatomy.  The relative importance of each histone mark feature varied across samples.  We localized each histone mark signal to its relevant region, revealing that chromatin state enrichment varies greatly between histone marks.  Our results provide several novel insights into epigenetic regulation of transcription in new contexts.', u'Transcriptome-wide maps of RNA binding protein (RBP)-RNA interactions by immunoprecipitation (IP)-based methods such as RNA IP (RIP) and crosslinking and IP (CLIP) are key starting points for evaluating the molecular roles of the thousands of human RBPs. A significant bottleneck to the application of these methods in diverse cell-lines, tissues and developmental stages, is the availability of validated IP-quality antibodies. Using IP followed by immunoblot assays, we have developed a validated repository of 438 commercially available antibodies that interrogate 365 unique RBPs. In parallel, 362 short-hairpin RNA (shRNA) constructs against 276 unique RBPs were also used to confirm specificity of these antibodies. These antibodies can characterize subcellular RBP localization. With the burgeoning interest in the roles of RBPs in cancer, neurobiology and development, these resources are invaluable to the broad scientific community. Detailed information about these resources is publicly available at the ENCODE portal (https://www.encodeproject.org/).', u'Reduced representation sequencing methods such as genotyping-by-sequencing (GBS) enable low-cost measurement of genetic variation without the need for a reference genome assembly. These methods are widely used in genetic mapping and population genetics studies, especially with non-model organisms. Variant calling error rates, however, are higher in GBS than in standard sequencing, in particular due to restriction site polymorphisms, and few computational tools exist that specifically model and correct these errors. We developed a statistical method to remove errors caused by restriction site polymorphisms, implemented in the software package GBStools. We evaluated it in several simulated data sets, varying in number of samples, mean coverage and population mutation rate, and in two empirical human data sets (N = 8 and N = 63 samples). In our simulations, GBStools improved genotype accuracy more than commonly used filters such as Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium p-values.  GBStools is most effective at removing genotype errors in data sets over 100 samples when coverage is 40X or higher, and the improvement is most pronounced in species with high genomic diversity. We also demonstrate the utility of GBS and GBStools for human population genetic inference in Argentine populations and reveal widely varying individual ancestry proportions and an excess of singletons, consistent with recent population growth.', u'Migraine is a debilitating neurological disorder affecting around 1 in 7 people worldwide, but its molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. Some debate exists over whether migraine is a disease of vascular dysfunction, or a result of neuronal dysfunction with secondary vascular changes. Genome-wide association (GWA) studies have thus far identified 13 independent loci associated with migraine. To identify new susceptibility loci, we performed the largest genetic study of migraine to date, comprising 59,674 cases and 316,078 controls from 22 GWA studies. We identified 45 independent single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) significantly associated with migraine risk (P < 5 x 10-8) that map to 38 distinct genomic loci, including 28 loci not previously reported and the first locus identified on chromosome X. Furthermore, a subset analysis for migraine without aura (MO) identified seven of the same loci as from the full sample, whereas no loci reached genome-wide significance in the migraine with aura (MA) subset. In subsequent computational analyzes, the identified loci showed enrichment for genes expressed in vascular and smooth muscle tissues, consistent with a predominant theory of migraine that highlights vascular etiologies.', u'Successful segregation of chromosomes during mitosis requires that each sister chromatid is captured by microtubules emanating from opposite spindle poles. A multiprotein complex called the kinetochore provides an attachment site on chromosomes for microtubules. We have found that the prolylhydroxylase PHD2 is a critical regulator of the assembly of the kinetochore. PHD2 hydroxylates the kinetochore component CENP-N on P311 and is essential for CENP-N localization to kinetochores. Either depletion of PHD2, or expression of a hydroxylation-deficient mutant, results in loss of the histone H3 variant CENP-A from centromeres. Loss of CENP-N from chromatin bound protein complexes is not due to decreased protein stability but is a consequence of lowered affinity of CENP-N for binding CENP-L. Loss of hydroxylation also results in increased targeting of CENP-L to chromatin. Hydroxylation by PHD2 thus plays an important role in controlling the stoichiometry of mitotic kinetochore components.', u'Divergence of developmental mechanisms within populations may lead to hybrid developmental failure, and may be a factor driving speciation in angiosperms.\n\nWe investigate patterns of endosperm and embryo development in Mimulus guttatus and the closely related, serpentine endemic M. nudatus, and compare them to those of reciprocal hybrid seed. We address whether disruption in hybrid seed development is the primary source of reproductive isolation between these sympatric taxa.\n\nM. guttatus and M. nudatus differ in the pattern and timing of endosperm and embryo development. Some hybrid seed exhibit early disruption of endosperm development and are completely inviable, while others develop relatively normally at first, but later exhibit impaired endosperm proliferation and low germination success. These developmental patterns are reflected in mature hybrid seed, which are either small and flat (indicating little to no endosperm), or shriveled (indicating reduced endosperm volume). Hybrid seed inviability forms a potent reproductive barrier between M. guttatus and M. nudatus. \n\nWe shed light on the extent of developmental variation between closely related species within the M. guttatus species complex, an important ecological model system, and provide a partial mechanism for the hybrid barrier between M. guttatus and M. nudatus.', u'The hollow curve species abundance distribution describes the pattern of large numbers of rare\nspecies and a small number of common species in a community. The species abundance distribution\nis one of the most ubiquitous patterns in nature and many models have been proposed to explain the\nmechanisms that generate this pattern. While there have been numerous comparisons of species\nabundance distribution models, most of these comparisons only use only a small subset of available\nmodels, focus on a single ecosystem or taxonomic group, and fail to use the most appropriate\nstatistical methods. This makes it difficult to draw general conclusions about which, if any, models\nprovide the best empirical fit to species abundance distributions. We compiled data from the literature\nto significantly expand the available data for under-represented taxonomic groups, and combined this\nwith other macroecological datasets to perform comprehensive model comparisons for the species\nabundance distribution. A multiple model comparison showed that most available models for the\nspecies abundance distribution fit the data equivalently well across a diverse array of ecosystems\nand taxonomic groups.', u'Abstract\nThe availability of genomes across the tree of life is highly biased toward vertebrates, pathogens, human disease models, and organisms with small and streamlined genomes. Recent progress in genomics has enabled the de novo decoding of the genome of virtually any organism, greatly expanding its potential for understanding the biology and evolution of the full spectrum of biodiversity. The increasing diversity of sequencing technologies, assays, and de novo assembly algorithms have augmented the complexity of de novo genome sequencing projects in non-model organisms. To reduce the costs and challenges in de novo genome sequencing projects and streamline their experimental design and analysis, we developed iWGS (in silico Whole Genome Sequencer and Analyzer), an automated pipeline for guiding the choice of appropriate sequencing strategy and assembly protocols. iWGS seamlessly integrates the four key steps of a de novo genome sequencing project: data generation (through simulation), data quality control, de novo assembly, and assembly evaluation and validation. The last three steps can also be applied to the analysis of real data. iWGS is designed to enable the user to have great flexibility in testing the range of experimental designs available for genome sequencing projects, and supports all major sequencing technologies and popular assembly tools. Three case studies illustrate how iWGS can guide the design of de novo genome sequencing projects and evaluate the performance of a wide variety of user-specified sequencing strategies and assembly protocols on genomes of differing architectures. iWGS, along with a detailed documentation, is freely available at http://as.vanderbilt.edu/rokaslab/tools.html.', u'The diversity of the immune repertoire is initially generated by random rearrangements of the receptor gene during early T and B cell development. Rearrangement scenarios are composed of random events -- choices of gene templates, base pair deletions and insertions -- described by probability distributions. Not all scenarios are equally likely, and the same receptor sequence may be obtained in several different ways. Quantifying the distribution of these rearrangements is an essential baseline for studying the immune system diversity. Inferring the properties of the distributions from receptor sequences is a computationally hard problem, requiring enumerating every possible scenario for every sampled receptor sequence. We present a Hidden Markov model, which accounts for all plausible scenarios that can generate the receptor sequences. We developed and implemented a method based on the Baum-Welch algorithm that can efficiently infer the parameters for the different events of the rearrangement process. We tested our software tool on sequence data for both the alpha and beta chains of the T cell receptor. To test the validity of our algorithm, we also generated synthetic sequences produced by a known model, and confirmed that its parameters could be accurately inferred back from the sequences. The inferred model can be used to generate synthetic sequences, to calculate the probability of generation of any receptor sequence, as well as the theoretical diversity of the repertoire. We estimate this diversity to be \u22481023 for human T cells. The model gives a baseline to investigate the selection and dynamics of immune repertoires.', u"All animals are able to rapidly change their behavior. The neural basis of such flexibility requires that groups of distant neural ensembles rapidly alter communications with selectivity and fidelity. Low frequency oscillations are a strong candidate for how neurons coordinate communication via the dynamic instantiation of functional networks. These dynamic networks are argued to rapidly guide the flow of information, with the presumption that stronger oscillations more strongly influence information flow. Surprisingly, there is scant evidence or theoretical support for how oscillatory activity might enhance information flow. Here we introduce a novel computational model for oscillatory neural communication and show that, rather than the strength of the oscillation, it is the balance between excitatory and inhibitory neuronal activity that has the largest effect on information flow. When coupling an oscillation and spiking has balanced excitatory-inhibitory inputs, information flow is enhanced via improved discriminability between signal and noise. In contrast, when coupling is unbalanced, driven either by excessive excitation or inhibition, information flow is obstructed, regardless of the strength of the oscillation. A multitude of neuropathologies, including Parkinson's disease, schizophrenia, and autism, are associated with oscillatory disruptions and excitation-inhibition imbalances. Our results show that understanding the distinction between balanced and unbalanced oscillatory coupling offers a unifying mechanistic framework for understanding effective neural communication and its disruption in neuropathology.", u'Prostate cancer metastasis to the bone is predominantly lethal and results from the ability of successful metastatic prostate cancer cells to co-opt microenvironmental cells and processes involved in bone remodelling. Understanding how the interactions between tumour and stromal cells determine successful metastases and how metastatic tumours respond to treatment is an emergent process that is hard to asses biologically and thus can benefit from mathematical models. In this work we describe a mathematical model of bone remodelling and the establishment of a prostate cancer metastasis in the bone using evolutionary game theory. We have mathematically recapitulated the current paradigm of a vicious cycle driving the tumor growth and we have used this tool to investigate the key interactions between the tumour and the bone stroma. Crucially, the model sheds light on the role that the interactions of heterogeneous tumor cells with the bone microenvironment have in the treatment of cancer. Our results show that resistant populations naturally become dominant in the metastases under a number treatment schemes and that schedules designed by an evolutionary game theory approach could be used to better control the tumour and the associated bone growth than the current standard of care.', u'The classical class I HLA loci of humans show an excess of nonsynonymous with\nrespect to synonymous substitutions at codons of the antigen recognition site (ARS), a\nhallmark of adaptive evolution. Additionally, high polymporphism, linkage disequilibrium\nand disease associations suggest that one or more balancing selection regimes have\nacted upon these genes. However, several questions about these selective regimes\nremain open. First, it is unclear if stronger evidence for selection on deep timescales is\ndue to changes in the intensity of selection over time or to a lack of power of most\nmethods to detect selection on recent timescales. Another question concerns the\nfunctional entities which define the selected phenotype. While most analysis focus on\nselection acting on individual alleles, it is also plausible that phylogenetically defined\ngroups of alleles (\u201clineages\u201d) are targets of selection. To address these questions we\nanalyzed how dN/dS (\u03c9) varies\nwith respect to divergence times between alleles and phylogenetic placement (position\nof branches). We find that \u03c9 for ARS codons of class I HLA genes increases with\ndivergence time and is higher for inter-lineage\nbranches. Throughout our analyses, we used non-selected codons to control for\npossible effects of inflation of \u03c9 associated to intra-specific analysis, and showed that\nour results are not artifactual. Our findings indicate the importance of considering the\ntimescale effect when analysing \u03c9 over a wide spectrum of divergences. Finally, our\nresults support the divergent allele advantage model, whereby heterozygotes with\nmore divergent alleles have higher fitness than those carrying similar alleles.', u'Genetic studies of Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) have established that de novo duplications and deletions contribute to risk. However, ascertainment of structural variation (SV) has been restricted by the coarse resolution of current approaches. By applying a custom pipeline for SV discovery, genotyping and de novo assembly to genome sequencing of 235 subjects, 71 cases, 26 sibling controls and their parents, we present an atlas of 1.2 million SVs (5,213/genome), comprising 11 different classes. We demonstrate a high diversity of de novo mutations, a majority of which were undetectable by previous methods. In addition, we observe complex mutation clusters where combinations of de novo SVs, nucleotide substitutions and indels occurred as a single event. We estimate a high rate of structural mutation in humans (20%). Genetic risk for ASD is attributable to an elevated frequency of gene-disrupting de novo SVs but not an elevated rate of genome rearrangement.', u'Here we present the first dataset based on human microbiota samples of an urban middle-income population in South America. We characterized the microbiota of six different body habitats: palatine tonsils, saliva, buccal mucosa, throat, anterior nares and gut from samples of healthy individual living in a metropolitan area in Argentina. Our initial findings\nrevealed differences in the structure and composition of the microbial communities compared to the US urban population. By sharing our data, we want to actively encourage its reuse for comparison purposes. This\n will hopefully result in novel biological insights on the variability of the microbiota of healthy individuals across populations worldwide. Moreover, the understanding of the human microbiota ecosystem in a health-associated state will help to answer questions related to the role of the microbiota in disease.', u'Computer simulations are routinely conducted to evaluate new statistical methods, to compare the properties among different methods, and to mimic the real data in genetic epidemiology studies. Conducting simulation studies can become a complicated task as several challenges can occur, such as the selection of an appropriate simulation tool and the specification of parameters in the simulation model. Although abundant simulated data have been generated for human genetic research, currently there is no public database designed specifically as a repository for these simulated data. With the lack of such database, for similar studies, similar simulations may have been repeated, which resulted in redundant works. We created an online platform, DBSIM, for simulation data sharing and discussion of simulation techniques for human genetic studies. DBSIM has a database containing simulation scripts, simulated data, and documentations from published manuscripts, as well as a discussion forum, which provides a platform for discussion of the simulated data and exchanging simulation ideas. DBSIM will be useful in three aspects. Moreover, summary statistics such as the simulation tools that are most commonly used and datasets that are most frequently downloaded are provided. The statistics will be very informative for researchers to choose an appropriate simulation tool or select a common dataset for method comparisons. DBSIM can be accessed at http://dbsim.nhri.org.tw.', u'Summary: In this technical report we describe a simple extension to python-libSBML that allows users of Python to more easily construct SBML based models. The most commonly used package for constructing SBML models in Python is python-libSBML based on the C/C++ library libSBML. python-libSBML supports a comprehensive set of model types, but is difficult for new users to learn and requires long scripts to create even the simplest models.  We present SimpleSBML, a package that allows users to add species, parameters, reactions, events, and rules to a libSBML model with only one command for each.  Models can be exported to SBML format, and SBML files can be imported and converted to SimpleSBML commands that creates each element in a new model.  This allows users to create new models and edit existing models for use with other software.\n\nAccessibility and Implementation: SimpleSBML is publicly available and licensed under the liberal Apache 2.0 open source license.  It supports SBML levels 2 and 3.  Its only dependency is libSBML.  It is supported on Windows and Mac OS X. All code has been deposited at the GitHub site: https://github.com/sys-bio/simplesbml\n\nContact: carolc24@u.washington.edu or hsauro@u.washington.edu\n\nSupplementary information: Documentation and download is available at sys-bio.github.io/simplesbml.', u'One important outcome of biological introductions is to bring into contact species that diverged in allopatry. For interfertile taxa, the evolutionary outcomes of such secondary contacts may be diverse (e.g. adaptive introgression from or into the introduced species) but are not yet well examined in the wild. In this context, the recent secondary contact between the non-native species Ciona robusta and the native species C.intestinalis, in the English Channel, provides an excellent case study to examine. By means of a population genomic approach, using 310 SNPs developed from full transcriptomes, the genetic diversity at population and species level was examined by studying 449 individuals (NC.robusta = 213, NC. intestinalis = 236) sampled in 12 sites from the English Channel, North Sea, NW Atlantic and SE Pacific where they are found either alone or living in the same locality and habitat (syntopy). As expected from previous analyses, C. robusta showed less polymorphism than C. intestinalis, a pattern that may partly be explained by its non-native status in most of the study localities. The results clearly showed an almost complete absence of contemporary gene flow between the two species in syntopic localities, with only one first generation hybrid and none other genotype compatible with recent backcrosses. Interestingly, introgression was also observed in allopatric populations of both species (i.e. where no contemporary hybridization can occur). Furthermore, one allopatric population sampled in SE Pacific exhibited a much higher introgression rate compared to all others C. robusta populations. Altogether, these results indicate that the observed inter-specific gene flow is the outcome of historical introgression, spread afterward at a worldwide scale. They also point out that efficient barriers are preventing hybridization in the wild between the introduced and native species in the English Channel, thus making adaptive introgression of the introduced species unlikely to favor the sustainable establishment of the study non-native species.', u'Large-scale reference data sets of human genetic variation are critical for the medical and functional interpretation of DNA sequence changes. Here we describe the aggregation and analysis of high-quality exome (protein-coding region) sequence data for 60,706 individuals of diverse ethnicities. The resulting catalogue of human genetic diversity has unprecedented resolution, with an average of one variant every eight bases of coding sequence and the presence of widespread mutational recurrence. The deep catalogue of variation provided by the Exome Aggregation Consortium (ExAC) can be used to calculate objective metrics of pathogenicity for sequence variants, and to identify genes subject to strong selection against various classes of mutation; we identify 3,230 genes with near-complete depletion of truncating variants, 79% of which have no currently established human disease phenotype. Finally, we show that these data can be used for the efficient filtering of candidate disease-causing variants, and for the discovery of human knockout variants in protein-coding genes.', u'Summary: Targeted enrichment of conserved and ultraconserved genomic elements allows universal collection of phylogenomic data from hundreds of species at multiple time scales (< 5 Ma to > 300 Ma).  Prior to downstream inference, data from these types of targeted enrichment studies must undergo pre-processing to assemble contigs from sequence data; identify targeted, enriched loci from the off-target background data; align enriched contigs representing conserved loci to one another; and prepare and manipulate these alignments for subsequent phylogenomic inference.  PHYLUCE is an efficient and easy-to-install software package that accomplishes these tasks across hundreds of taxa and thousands of enriched loci.\n\nAvailability and Implementation: PHYLUCE is written for Python 2.7.  PHYLUCE is supported on OSX and Linux (RedHat/CentOS) operating systems. PHYLUCE source code is distributed under a BSD-style license from https://www.github.com/faircloth-lab/phyluce/. PHYLUCE is also available as a package (https://binstar.org/faircloth-lab/phyluce) for the Anaconda Python distribution that installs all dependencies, and users can request a PHYLUCE instance on iPlant Atmosphere (tag: phyluce). The software manual and a tutorial are available from http://phyluce.readthedocs.org/en/latest/ and test data are available from doi: 10.6084/m9.figshare.1284521.', u'Demographic, genetic, or stochastic factors can lead to perfect linkage disequilibrium (LD) between alleles at two loci without respect to the extent of their physical distance, a phenomenon that Lawrence et al. (2005a) refer to as "genetic indistinguishability". This phenomenon can complicate genotype-phenotype association testing by hindering the ability to localize causal alleles, but has not been thoroughly explored from a theoretical perspective or using large, dense whole-genome polymorphism datasets. We derive a simple theoretical model of the prevalence of genetic indistinguishability between unlinked loci, and verify its accuracy via simulation. We show that sample size and minor allele frequency are the major determinants of the prevalence of perfect LD between unlinked loci but that demographic factors, such as deviations from random mating, can produce significant effects as well. Finally, we quantify this phenomenon in three model organisms and find thousands of pairs of moderate-frequency (>5%) genetically indistinguishable variants in relatively large datasets. These results clarify a previously underexplored population genetic phenomenon with important implications for association studies, and define conditions under which it is likely to manifest.', u'Plasmodium vivax is the most prevalent malarial species in South America and exerts a\nsubstantial burden on the populations is affects. Its control and eventual elimination are\na global health priority. Genomic research contributes to this objective by improving\nour understanding of the biology of P. vivax and through the development of new\ngenetic markers that can be used to monitor efforts to reduce malaria transmission.\nHere we analyze whole genome data from eight field samples from a region in\nCord \u0301\noba, Colombia where malaria is endemic. We find considerable genetic diversity\nwithin this population, a result that contrasts with earlier studies suggesting that P.\nvivax had limited diversity in the Americas. We also identify a selective sweep around a\nsubstitution known to confer resistance to sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP). This is\nthe first observation of a selective sweep for SP resistance in this parasite. These results\nindicate that P. vivax has been exposed to SP pressure even when the drug is not in use\nas a first line treatment for patients afflicted by this parasite. We identify multiple\nnon-synonymous substitutions in three other genes known to be involved with drug\nresistance in Plasmodium species. Finally, we found extensive microsatellite\npolymorphisms. Using this information we developed 18 microsatellite loci that are\npolymorphic and easy to score and can thus be used in epidemiological investigations in\nSouth America.', u'The Chlamydomonas genome has been sequenced, assembled and annotated to produce a rich resource for genetics and molecular biology in this well-studied model organism. However, the current reference genome contains ~1000 blocks of unknown sequence (\u2018N-islands\u2019), which are frequently placed in introns of annotated gene models. We developed a strategy, using careful bioinformatics analysis of short-sequence cDNA and genomic DNA reads, to search for previously unknown exons hidden within such blocks, and determine the sequence and exon/intron boundaries of such exons. These methods are based on assembly and alignment completely independent of prior reference assembly or reference annotation. Our evidence indicates that ~one-quarter of the annotated intronic N-islands actually contain hidden exons. For most of these our algorithm recovers full exonic sequence with associated splice junctions and exon-adjacent intron sequence, that can be joined to the reference genome assembly and annotated transcript models. These new exons represent de novo sequence generally present nowhere in the assembled genome, and the added sequence can be shown in many cases to greatly improve evolutionary conservation of the predicted encoded peptides. At the same time, our results confirm the purely intronic status for a substantial majority of N-islands annotated as intronic in the reference annotated genome, increasing confidence in this valuable resource.', u'Thymic epithelial cells (TECs) are required for the development and differentiation of T cells\nand are sufficient for the positive and negative selection of developing T cells. Although TECs play a critical role in T cell biology, simple, efficient and readily scalable methods for the transfection of TEC lines and primary TECs have not been described. We tested the efficiency of Nucleofection for the transfection of 4 different mouse thymic epithelial cell lines that had been derived from cortical or medullary epithelium. We also tested primary mouse thymic epithelial cells isolated from fetal and postnatal stages. We found that Nucleofection was highly efficient for the transfection of thymic epithelial cells, with transfection efficiencies of 30-70% for the cell lines and 15-35% for primary TECs with low amounts of cell death. Efficient transfection by Nucleofection can be performed with\nestablished cortical and medullary thymic epithelial cell lines as well as primary TECs isolated from E15.5 day fetal thymus or postnatal day 3 or 30 thymus tissue. The high efficiency of Nucleofection for TEC transfection will enable the use of TEC lines in high throughput transfection studies and\nsimplifies the transfection of primary TECs for in vitro or in vivo analysis.', u'Starch synthesis requires several enzymatic activities including branching enzymes (BEs) responsible for the formation of \u03b1(1\u21926) linkages. Distribution and number of these linkages are further controlled by debranching enzymes (DBEs) that cleave some of them, rendering the polyglucan water-insoluble and semi-crystalline. Although the activity of BEs and DBEs is mandatory to sustain normal starch synthesis, the relative importance of each in the establishment of the plant storage polyglucan (i.e. water-insolubility, crystallinity, presence of amylose) is still debated. Here, we have substituted the activity of BEs in Arabidopsis with that of the Escherichia coli glycogen branching enzyme (GlgB). The latter is the BE counterpart in the metabolism of glycogen, a highly branched water-soluble and amorphous storage polyglucan. GlgB was expressed in the be2 be3 double mutant of Arabidopsis that is devoid of BE activity and consequently free of starch. The synthesis of a water-insoluble, partly crystalline, amylose-containing starch-like polyglucan was restored in GlgB-expressing plants, suggesting that BEs origin only have a limited impact on establishing essential characteristics of starch. Moreover, the balance between branching and debranching is crucial for the synthesis of starch, as an excess of branching activity results in the formation of highly branched, water-soluble, poorly crystalline polyglucan.', u'There is a growing interest in developing novel brain stimulation methods to control disease-related aberrant neural activity and to address basic neuroscience questions. Conventional methods for manipulating brain activity rely on open-loop approaches that usually lead to excessive stimulation and, crucially, do not restore the original computations performed by the network. Thus, they are often accompanied by undesired side-effects. Here, we introduce delayed feedback control (DFC), a conceptually simple but effective method, to control pathological oscillations in spiking neural networks. Using mathematical analysis and numerical simulations we show that DFC can restore a wide range of aberrant network dynamics either by suppressing or enhancing synchronous irregular activity. Importantly, DFC besides steering the system back to a healthy state, it also recovers the computations performed by the underlying network. Finally, using our theory we isolate the role of single neuron and synapse properties in determining the stability of the closed-loop system.', u"Background:  Gene expression is known to be an intrinsically stochastic process which can involve single-digit numbers of mRNA molecules in a cell at any given time.  The modelling of such processes calls for the use of exact stochastic simulation methods, most notably the Gillespie algorithm.  However, this stochasticity, also termed \u201cintrinsic noise\u201d, does not account for all the variability between genetically identical cells growing in a homogeneous environment.  Despite substantial experimental efforts, determining appropriate model parameters continues to be a challenge.  Methods based on approximate Bayesian computation can be used to obtain posterior parameter distributions given the observed data.  However, such inference procedures require large numbers of simulations of the model and exact stochastic simulation is computationally costly.  In this work we focus on the specific case of trying to infer model parameters describing reaction rates and extrinsic noise on the basis of measurements of molecule numbers in individual cells at a given time point.\n\nResults:  To make the problem computationally tractable we develop an exact, model-specific, stochastic simulation algorithm for the commonly used two-state model of gene expression.  This algorithm relies on certain assumptions and favourable properties of the model to forgo the simulation of the whole temporal trajectory of protein numbers in the system, instead returning only the number of protein and mRNA molecules present in the system at a specified time point.  The computational gain is proportional to the number of protein molecules created in the system and becomes significant for systems involving hundreds or thousands of protein molecules.  We employ this algorithm, approximate Bayesian computation, and published gene expression data for Escherichia coli to simultaneously infer the model's rate parameters and parameters describing extrinsic noise for 86 genes.", u'The advent of high throughput RNA-seq at the single-cell level has opened up new opportunities to elucidate the heterogeneity of gene expression. One of the most widespread applications of RNA-seq is to identify genes which are differentially expressed (DE) between two experimental conditions. Here, we present a discrete, distributional method for differential gene expression (D3E), a novel algorithm specifically designed for single-cell RNA-seq data. We use synthetic data to evaluate D3E, demonstrating that it can detect changes in expression, even when the mean level remains unchanged. D3E is based on an analytically tractable stochastic model, and thus it provides additional biological insights by quantifying biologically meaningful properties, such as the average burst size and frequency. We use D3E to investigate experimental data, and with the help of the underlying model, we directly test hypotheses about the driving mechanism behind changes in gene expression.', u'RNA surveillance by the Nonsense Mediated Decay (NMD) pathway eliminates potentially deleterious transcripts containing Premature Termination Codons (PTCs). The transition from a pioneering round of translation to steady state translation is hypothesized to be a major checkpoint in this process. One hallmark of mRNAs licensed for translation is the exchange of 7-methylguanosine cap binding proteins. However, mRNAs undergoing steady state translation are also NMD substrates, raising mechanistic questions about the NMD checkpoint. To test the role of cap binding proteins in NMD, we modulated the protein composition of cytoplasmic messenger ribonucleoprotein particles (mRNPs) with the naturally occurring macrolide rapamycin. We demonstrate that despite well-documented attenuation of cap-dependent mRNA translation, rapamycin can augment NMD. Rapamycin-treatment significantly reduces the levels of endogenous and exogenous PTC-containing mRNA isoforms in a dose- and UPF1- dependent manner. PTC-containing transcripts exhibit a shorter half-life upon rapamacyin-treatment as compared to non-PTC isoforms. Rapamycin also causes depletion of PTC-containing mRNA isoforms from polyribosomes, suggesting that actively translating ribosomes can transition between low and high NMD states. Importantly, mRNPs show depletion of eIF4E and retention of the nuclear Cap Binding Complex (CBC) in rapamycin-treated cells. Our data demonstrate that rapamycin potentiates pioneer-like mRNP context thereby decreasing NMD evasion.', u'Abstract\nKey Message   Agrobacterium tumefaciens was used to transform radiata pine shoots and to efficiently produce stable genetically modified pine plants.\n\nAbstract  Micropropagated shoot explants from Pinus radiata D. Don were used to produce stable transgenic plants by Agrobacterium tumefaciens mediated transformation.  Using this method any genotype that can be micropropagated could produce stable transgenic lines. As over 80% of P. radiata genotypes tested can be micropropagated, this effectively means that any line chosen for superior characteristics could be transformed. There are well established protocols for progressing such germplasm to field deployment.  Here we used open and control pollinated seed lines and embryogenic clones. The method developed was faster than other methods previously developed using mature cotyledons. PCR positive shoots could be obtain within 6 months of Agrobacterium cocultivation compared with 12 months for cotyledon methods. Transformed shoots were obtained using either kanamycin or geneticin as the selectable marker gene. Shoots were recovered from selection, were tested and were not chimeric, indicating that the selection pressure was optimal for this explant type. GFP was used as a vital marker, and the bar gene, (for resistance to the herbicide Buster\xae/Basta\xae) was used to produce lines that could potentially be used in commercial application. As expected, a range of expression phenotypes were identified for both these reporter genes and the analyses for expression were relatively easy.', u'Ancient origins, profound ecological divergence and extensive hybridization make the fire-bellied toads Bombina bombina and B. variegata (Anura: Bombinatoridae) an intriguing test case of ecological speciation. Narrow Bombina hybrid zones erect barriers to neutral introgression whose strength has been estimated previously. We test this prediction by inferring the rate of gene exchange between pure populations on either side of the intensively studied Krakow transect. We developed a software pipeline to extract high confidence sets of orthologous genes from de novo transcriptome assemblies, fitted a range of divergence models to these data and assessed their relative support with analytic likelihoods calculations. There was clear evidence for post-divergence gene flow, but, as expected, no perceptible signal of recent introgression via the nearby hybrid zone. The analysis of two additional Bombina taxa (B. v. scabra and B. orientalis) validated our parameter estimates against a larger set of prior expectations. Despite substantial cumulative introgression over millions of years, adaptive divergence of the hybridizing taxa is essentially unaffected by their lack of reproductive isolation. Extended distribution ranges also buffer them against small-scale environmental perturbations that have been shown to reverse the speciation process in other, more recent ecotypes.', u'Here, we describe the implementation of three techniques for capturing and killing Staphylococcus aureus in blood in vitro inside a medical tube. The first technique involves capturing and removing pathogens using antibodies that are coated, via a simple chemical process, on the inner walls of a modified medical tube (tube capturing technique). In the second technique, a photosensitizer-antibody conjugate adheres to the pathogens while in circulation. When blood flows through the same kind of tube, the conjugate is activated by near-infrared (NIR) light  to kill pathogens (photodynamic therapy technique). For the third technique, pathogens are exposed to light in the ultraviolet (UV) range while circulating through a similar tube (UV technique), which kills the pathogens. \nWe spiked blood with S. aureus, starting with about 107 CFU/mL and ending at 108 CFU/mL after 5 hours. While the spiked bacteria rapidly grew in nutrition-rich whole blood, each of the three techniques were able to independently remove between 61% and 84% more S. aureus in the experimental blood sample compared to the controls groups. When combined, these techniques demonstrated a removal rate between 87% and 92%.', u'Metagenome studies are becoming increasingly widespread, yielding important insights into microbial communities covering diverse environments from terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems to human skin and gut. With the advent of high-throughput sequencing platforms, the use of large scale shotgun sequencing approaches is now commonplace. However, a thorough independent benchmark comparing state-of-the-art metagenome analysis tools is lacking. Here, we present a benchmark where the most widely used tools are tested on complex, realistic data sets. Our results clearly show that the most widely used tools are not necessarily the most accurate, that the most accurate tool is not necessarily the most time consuming, and that there is a high degree of variability between available tools. These findings are important as the conclusions of any metagenomics study are affected by errors in the predicted community composition. Data sets and results are freely available from http://www.ucbioinformatics.org/metabenchmark.html', u'Several deep-sea marine invertebrates were collected from hydrothermal vents, seamounts and cold coral assemblages in the North Atlantic Ocean, near the Azores islands. The effect of their lipid crude extracts against two strains of malaria parasite P. falciparum (Dd2 and 3D7) was measured in vitro in order to establish the potential of these invertebrates as new sources for antimalarial compounds. Extracts that presented higher antimalarial activity potential were gorgonian Callogorgia verticillata and the hydrothermal vent shrimp Mirocaris fortunata, presenting the lowest value of IC50 and the highest selectivity index for both evaluated stains. To our knowledge this is the first report on the antimalarial activity of crude lipid extracts considering species collected at depths higher then 100 m.', u'The quantitative prediction of transcriptional activity of genes using promoter sequence is fundamental to the engineering of biological systems for industrial purposes and understanding the natural variation in gene expression. To catalyze the development of new algorithms for this purpose, the Dialogue on Reverse Engineering Assessment and Methods (DREAM) organized a community challenge seeking predictive models of promoter activity given normalized promoter activity data for 90 ribosomal protein promoters driving expression of a fluorescent reporter gene. By developing an unbiased modeling approach that performs an iterative search for predictive DNA sequence features using the frequencies of various k-mers, inferred DNA mechanical properties and spatial positions of promoter sequences, we achieved the best performer status in this challenge. The specific predictive features used in the model included the frequency of the nucleotide G, the length of polymeric tracts of T and TA, the frequencies of 6 distinct trinucleotides and 12 tetranucleotides, and the predicted protein deformability of the DNA sequence. Our method accurately predicted the activity of 20 natural variants of ribosomal protein promoters (Spearman correlation r = 0.73) as compared to 33 laboratory-mutated variants of the promoters (r = 0.57) in a test set that was hidden from participants. Notably, our model differed substantially from the rest in 2 main ways: i) it did not explicitly utilize transcription factor binding information implying that subtle DNA sequence features are highly associated with gene expression, and ii) it was entirely based on features extracted exclusively from the 100 bp region upstream from the translational start site demonstrating that this region encodes much of the overall promoter activity. The findings from this study have important implications for the engineering of predictable gene expression systems and the evolution of gene expression in naturally occurring biological systems.', u'Human microbiota plays an important role in determining changes from health to disease. Increasing research activity is dedicated to understand its diversity and variability. \nWe analyse 16S rRNA and whole genome sequencing (WGS) data from the gut microbiota of 97 individuals monitored in time. Temporal fluctuations in the microbiome reveal significant differences due to factors that affect the microbiota such as dietary changes, antibiotic intake, early gut development or disease. Here we show that a fluctuation scaling law describes the temporal variability of the system and that a noise-induced phase transition is central in the route to disease. The universal law distinguishes healthy from sick microbiota and quantitatively characterizes the path in the phase space, which opens up its potential clinical use and, more generally, other technological applications where microbiota plays an important role.', u'Defoliation outbreaks are biological disturbances that alter tree growth and mortality in temperate forests. Trees respond to defoliation in many ways; some recover rapidly, while others decline gradually or die. These differences may arise from species functional traits that constrain growth such as xylem anatomy, growth phenology or non-structural carbohydrate (NSC) storage, but this has not been shown. Although many studies address these phenomena, varied and idiosyncratic measures limit our ability to generalize and predict defoliation responses across species. I synthesized and translated published growth and mortality data into consistent standardized variables suitable for numerical models. I analyzed data from 32 studies, including 16 tree species and 10 defoliator systems from North America and Eurasia, and quantitatively compared responses to defoliation among species and tree functional groups using linear mixed-effects models.\n\nRelative growth decreased linearly or curvilinearly as defoliation stress accumulated across species. Growth decreased by only 5-20% following 100% defoliation in ring-porous Quercus, whereas growth of diffuse-porous hardwoods and conifers declined by 50-100%. Mortality increased exponentially with defoliation, more rapidly for Pinus and diffuse-porous species than for Quercus and Abies. Species-specific mixed models were best (R2c = 0.83-0.94), yet functional-group models lost little in terms of goodness-of-fit (R2c = 0.72-0.92), providing useful alternatives when species data is lacking. These responses are consistent with functional differences in wood growth phenology and NSC storage. Ring-porous spring xylem growth precedes budburst. Defoliators whose damage follows foliar development can only affect development of later wood. Growth of diffuse-porous and coniferous species responds more drastically, yet differences in NSC storage make them more vulnerable to mortality as stress accumulates. Ring-porous species resist defoliation-related changes in growth and mortality more than diffuse-porous and coniferous species. These findings apply in general to disturbances that cause spring defoliation and should be incorporated into forest vegetation models.', u'Although diet is believed to be a major factor underlying the evolution of venom, few comparative studies examine both venom composition and diet across a radiation of venomous species. Cone snails within the family, Conidae, comprise more than 700 species of carnivorous marine snails that capture their prey by using a cocktail of venomous neurotoxins (conotoxins or conopeptides). Venom composition across species has been previously hypothesized to be shaped by (a) prey taxonomic class (i.e., worms, molluscs, or fish) and (b) dietary breadth. We tested these hypotheses under a comparative phylogenetic framework using ecological data in conjunction with venom duct transcriptomes sequenced from 12 phylogenetically disparate cone snail species, including 10 vermivores (worm-eating), one molluscivore, and one generalist. We discovered 2223 unique conotoxin precursor peptides that encoded 1864 unique mature toxins across all species, >90% of which are new to this study. In addition, we identified two novel gene superfamilies and 16 novel cysteine frameworks. Each species exhibited unique venom profiles, with venom composition and expression patterns among species dominated by a restricted set of gene superfamilies and mature toxins. In contrast with the dominant paradigm for interpreting Conidae venom evolution, prey taxonomic class did not predict venom composition patterns among species. Our results suggests that cone snails have either evolved species-specific expression patterns likely as a consequence of the rapid evolution of conotoxin genes, or that traditional means of categorizing prey type (i.e., worms, mollusc, or fish) and conotoxins (i.e., by gene superfamily) do not accurately encapsulate evolutionary dynamics between diet and venom composition. We also found a significant positive relationship between dietary breadth and measures of conotoxin complexity. These results indicate that species with more generalized diets tend to have more complex venoms and utilize a greater number of venom genes for prey capture. Whether this increased gene diversity confers an increased capacity for evolutionary change remains to be tested. Overall, our results corroborate the key role of diet in influencing patterns of venom evolution in cone snails and other venomous radiations.', u'Annual and summertime trends towards increasingly variable values of the Palmer Drought Severity Index (PDSI) over a sub-decadal period (five years) were investigated within the contiguous United States between 1895 and the present. For the contiguous U.S. as a whole, there is a significant  increasing trend in the five-year running minimum-maximum ranges for the annual PDSI (aPDSI5yr(min|max range)). During this time frame, the average aPDSI5yr(min|max range) has increased by about one full unit, indicating a substantial increase is drought variability over short time scales across the United States. The end members of the running aPDSI5yr(min|max range) highlight even more rapid changes in the drought index variability within the past 120 years. This increasing variability in the aPDSI5yr(min|max range) is driven primarily by changes taking place in the Pacific and Atlantic Ocean coastal climate regions, climate regions which collectively comprise one-third the area of the contiguous U.S. Overall, interannual drought patterns are becoming more extreme and difficult to predict, posing a challenge to agricultural and other water-resource related planning efforts.', u'The extent to which selection and demography impact patterns of genetic diversity in natural populations of Drosophila melanogaster is yet to be fully understood. We previously observed that the pattern of LD at scales of ~10 kb in the Drosophila Genetic Reference Panel (DGRP), consisting of 145 inbred strains from Raleigh, North Carolina, measured both between pairs of sites and as haplotype homozygosity, is elevated above neutral demographic expectations. Further, we demonstrated that signatures of strong and recent soft sweeps are abundant. However, the extent to which this pattern is specific to this derived and admixed population is unknown. Neither is it clear whether such a pattern may have arisen as a consequence of the extensive inbreeding performed to generate the DGRP data. Here we analyze > 100 fully sequenced strains from Zambia, an ancestral population to the Raleigh population, that has experienced little to no admixture and was generated by sequencing haploid embryos rather than inbred strains. This data set allows us to determine whether patterns of elevated LD and signatures of abundant soft sweeps are generic to multiple populations of D. melanogaster or whether they are generated either by inbreeding, bottlenecks or admixture in the DGRP dataset. We find an elevation in long-range LD and haplotype homozygosity in the Zambian dataset, confirming the result from the DGRP data set. This elevation in LD and haplotype structure remains even after controlling for many sources of LD in the data including genomic inversions, admixture, population substructure, close relatedness of individual strains, and recombination rate variation. Furthermore, signatures of partial soft sweeps similar to those found in the DGRP are common in Zambia. These results suggest that while the selective forces and sources of adaptive mutations may differ in Zambia and Raleigh, elevated long-range LD and signatures of soft sweeps are generic in D. melanogaster.', u'Thousands of candidate human-specific regulatory sequences (HSRS) have been identified, supporting the idea that unique to human phenotypes result from human-specific alterations of genomic regulatory networks. Here, conservation patterns analysis of 18,364 regulatory DNA segments comprising candidate HSRS was carried out using the most recent releases of the reference genomes\u2019 databases of humans and nonhuman primates (NHP) and defining the sequence conservation threshold as the minimum ratio of bases that must remap of 1.00. Present analyses identified 5,535 candidate HSRS defined by either the acceleration of mutation rates on the human lineage or the functional divergence from chimpanzee that are highly conserved in NHP and appear to evolve by the exaptation of ancestral DNA pathway. This pathway seems mechanistically distinct from the evolution of regulatory DNA driven by the species-specific expansion of transposable elements. It is proposed that phenotypic divergence of Homo sapiens is driven by the evolution of human-specific genomic regulatory networks via at least two mechanistically distinct pathways of creation of divergent sequences of regulatory DNA: i) exaptation of the highly conserved ancestral regulatory DNA segments; ii) human-specific insertions of transposable elements.', u'Single-cell bacterial sensors have numerous applications in human health monitoring, environmental chemical detection, and materials biosynthesis. Such bacterial devices need not only the capability to differentiate between combinations of inputs, but also the ability to process signal timing and duration. In this work, we present a two-input temporal logic gate that can sense and record the order of the inputs, the timing between inputs, and the duration of input pulses. The temporal logic gate design relies on unidirectional DNA recombination with bacteriophage integrases to detect and encode sequences of input events. When implemented in a chromosomally-modified E. coli strain, we can utilize stochastic single cell responses to predict overall heterogeneous population behavior. We show that a stochastic model can be used to predict final population distributions of this E. coli strain, and thus that final differentiated sub populations can be used to deduce the timing and duration of transient chemical events.', u'The inference of demographic history from genome data is hindered by a lack of efficient computational approaches. In particular, it has proven difficult to exploit the information contained in the distribution of genealogies across the genome. We have previously shown that the generating function (GF) of genealogies can be used to analytically compute likelihoods of demographic models from configurations of mutations in short sequence blocks (Lohse et al., 2011). Although the GF has a simple, recursive form, the size of such likelihood computations explodes quickly with the number of individuals and applications of this framework have so far been limited to small samples (pairs and triplets) for which the GF can be written down by hand. Here we investigate several strategies for exploiting the inherent symmetries of the coalescent. In particular, we show that the GF of genealogies can be decomposed into a set of equivalence classes which allows likelihood calculations from non-trivial samples. Using this strategy, we used Mathematica to automate block-wise likelihood calculations based on the GF for a very general set of demographic scenarios that may involve population size changes, continuous migration, discrete divergence and admixture between multiple populations. To give a concrete example, we calculate the likelihood for a model of isolation with migration (IM), assuming two diploid samples without phase and outgroup information, and compare the power of our approach to that of minimal pairwise samples. We demonstrate\nthe new inference scheme with an analysis of two individual butterfly genomes from the sister species\nHeliconius melpomene rosina and Heliconius cyndo.', u'In the Wright-Fisher diffusion, the transition density function (TDF) describes the time-evolution of the population-wide frequency of an allele.  This function has several practical applications in population genetics, and computing it for biologically realistic scenarios with selection and demography is an important problem. We develop an efficient method for finding a spectral representation of the TDF for a general model where the effective population size, selection coefficients, and mutation parameters vary over time in a piecewise constant manner. The method, called SpectralTDF, is available at https://sourceforge.net/projects/spectraltdf/.', u'Halite endoliths in the Atacama Desert represent one of the most extreme microbial ecosystems on Earth. Here we sequenced and characterized a shotgun metagenome from halite nodules collected in Salar Grande, Chile. The community is dominated by archaea and functional analysis attributed most of the autotrophic CO2 fixation to a unique cyanobacterium. The assembled 1.1 Mbp genome of a novel nanohaloarchaeon, Candidatus Nanopetramus SG9, revealed a photoheterotrophic life style and a low median isoelectric point (pI) for all predicted proteins, suggesting a "salt-in" strategy for osmotic balance. Predicted proteins of the algae identified in the community also had pI distributions similar to "salt-in" strategists. The Nanopetramus genome contained a unique CRISPR/Cas system with a spacer that matched a partial viral genome from the metagenome. A combination of reference-independent methods identified over 30 complete or near complete viral or proviral genomes with diverse genome structure, genome size, gene content, and hosts. Putative hosts included Halobacteriaceae, Nanohaloarchaea, and Cyanobacteria. Despite the dependence of the halite community on deliquescence for liquid water availability, this study exposed an ecosystem spanning three phylogenetic domains, containing a large diversity of viruses, and a predominant salt-in strategy to balance the high osmotic pressure of the environment.', u'Recent experiments evolving de novo multicellularity in yeast have found that large-cluster forming genotypes also exhibit higher rates of programmed cell death (apoptosis). This was previously interpreted as the evolution of a simple form of cellular division of labor: apoptosis results in the scission of cell-cell connections, allowing snowflake yeast to produce proportionally smaller, faster-growing propagules. Through spatial simulations, Duran-Nebreda and Sol\xe9 (2015) develop the novel null hypothesis that apoptosis is not an adaptation, per se, but is instead caused by the accumulation of toxic metabolites in large clusters. Here we test this hypothesis by synthetically creating unicellular derivatives of snowflake yeast through functional complementation with the ancestral ACE2 allele. We find that multicellular snowflake yeast with elevated apoptosis exhibit a similar rate of apoptosis when cultured as single cells. We also show that larger snowflake yeast clusters tend to contain a greater fraction of older, senescent cells, which may explain why larger clusters of a given genotype are more apoptotic. Our results show that apoptosis is not caused by side effects of spatial structure, such as starvation or waste product accumulation, and are consistent with the hypothesis that elevated apoptosis is a trait which co-evolves with large cluster size.', u"Intratumoural heterogeneity is known to contribute to heterogeneity in therapeutic response. Variations in oxygen tension in particular have been correlated with changes in radiation response in vitro and at the clinical scale with overall survival.  Heterogeneity at the microscopic scale in tumour blood vessel architecture has been described,  and is one source of the underlying variations in oxygen tension. We endeavour to determine whether histologic scale measures of the erratic distribution of blood vessels within a tumour can be used to predict differing radiation response.  Using a two-dimensional hybrid cellular automaton model of tumour growth, we evaluate the effect of vessel distribution on cell survival outcomes of simulated radiation therapy.  Using the standard equations for the oxygen enhancement ratio for cell survival probability under differing oxygen tensions, we calculate average radiation effect in simulated, random, vessel organizations.  We go on to quantify the vessel distribution heterogeneity and measure spatial organization using Ripley's L function, a measure designed to detect deviations from spatial homogeneity.  We find that under differing regimes of vessel density the correlation coefficient between the measure of spatial organization and radiation effect changes sign.  This provides not only a useful way to understand the differences seen in radiation effect for tissues based on vessel architecture, but also an alternate explanation for the vessel normalization hypothesis.", u'We previously proposed a simple regression-based method to map quantitative trait loci underlying function-valued phenotypes. In order to better handle the case of noisy phenotype measurements and accommodate the correlation structure among time points, we propose an alternative approach that maintains much of the simplicity and speed of the regression-based method.  We overcome noisy measurements by replacing the observed data with a smooth approximation. We then apply functional principal component analysis, replacing the smoothed phenotype data with a small number of principal components. Quantitative trait locus mapping is applied to these dimension-reduced data, either with a multi-trait method or by considering the traits individually and then taking the average or maximum LOD score across traits. We apply these approaches to root gravitropism data on Arabidopsis recombinant inbred lines and further investigate their performance in computer simulations.  Our methods have been implemented in the R package, funqtl.', u'Errors during transcription may play an important role in determining cellular phenotypes: the RNA polymerase error rate is >4 orders of magnitude higher than that of DNA polymerase and errors are amplified >1000-fold due to translation. However, current methods to measure RNA polymerase fidelity are low-throughout, technically challenging, and organism specific. Here we show that changes in RNA polymerase fidelity can be measured using standard RNA sequencing protocols. We find that RNA polymerase is error-prone, and these errors can result in splicing defects. Furthermore, we find that differential expression of RNA polymerase subunits causes changes in RNA polymerase fidelity, and that coding sequences may have evolved to minimize the effect of these errors. These results suggest that errors cause by RNA polymerase may be a major source of stochastic variability at the level of single cells.', u"In spite of decades of linkage and association studies and its potential impact on human health, reliable prediction of an individual's risk for heritable disease remains difficult. Large numbers of mapped loci do not explain substantial fractions of the heritable variation, leaving an open question of whether accurate complex trait predictions can be achieved in practice. Here, we use a full genome sequenced population of 7396 yeast strains of varying relatedness, and predict growth traits from family information, effects of segregating genetic variants, and growth measurements in other environments with an average coefficient of determination R2 of 0.91. This accuracy exceeds narrow-sense heritability, approaches limits imposed by measurement repeatability, and is higher than achieved with a single replicate assay in the lab. We find that both relatedness and variant-based predictions are greatly aided by availability of closer relatives, while information from a large number of more distant relatives does not improve predictive performance when close relatives can be used. Our results prove that very accurate prediction of heritable traits is possible, and recommend prioritizing collection of deeper family-based data over large reference cohorts.", u'Recent advancements in sequencing technology have led to a drastic reduction in the cost of genome sequencing. This development has generated an unprecedented amount of genomic data that must be stored, processed, and communicated. To facilitate this effort, compression of genomic files has been proposed. Specifically, lossy compression of quality scores is emerging as a natural candidate for reducing the growing costs of storage. A main goal of performing DNA sequencing in population studies and clinical settings is to identify genetic variation. Though the field agrees that smaller files are advantageous, the cost of lossy compression, in terms of variant discovery, is unclear.\n \n\nBioinformatic algorithms to identify SNPs and INDELs from next-generation DNA sequencing data use base quality score information; here, we evaluate the effect of lossy compression of quality scores on SNP and INDEL detection. We analyze several lossy compressors introduced recently in the literature. Specifically, we investigate how the output of the variant caller when using the original data (uncompressed) differs from that obtained when quality scores are replaced by those generated by a lossy compressor. Using gold standard genomic datasets such as the GIAB (Genome In A Bottle) consensus sequence for NA12878 and simulated data, we are able to analyze how accurate the output of the variant calling is, both for the original data and that previously lossily compressed. We show that lossy compression can significantly alleviate the storage while maintaining variant calling performance comparable to that with the uncompressed data. Further, in some cases lossy compression can lead to variant calling performance which is superior to that using the uncompressed file. We envisage our findings and framework serving as a benchmark in future development and analyses of lossy genomic data compressors. \n\nThe \\emph{Supplementary Data} can be found at \\url{http://web.stanford.edu/~iochoa/supplementEffectLossy.zip}.', u'Given a massive collection of sequences, it is infeasible to perform pairwise alignment for basic tasks like sequence clustering and search. To address this problem, we demonstrate that the MinHash technique, first applied to clustering web pages, can be applied to biological sequences with similar effect, and extend this idea to include biologically relevant distance and significance measures. Our new tool, Mash, uses MinHash locality-sensitive hashing to reduce large sequences to a representative sketch and rapidly estimate pairwise distances between genomes or metagenomes. Using Mash, we explored several use cases, including a 5,000-fold size reduction and clustering of all ~55,000 NCBI RefSeq genomes in 46 CPU hours. The resulting 93 MB sketch database includes all RefSeq genomes, effectively delineates known species boundaries, reconstructs approximate phylogenies, and can be searched in seconds using assembled genomes or raw sequencing runs from Illumina, Pacific Biosciences, and Oxford Nanopore. For metagenomics, Mash scales to thousands of samples and can replicate Human Microbiome Project and Global Ocean Survey results in a fraction of the time. Other potential applications include any problem where an approximate, global sequence distance is acceptable, e.g. to triage and cluster sequence data, assign species labels to unknown genomes, quickly identify mis-tracked samples, and search massive genomic databases. In addition, the Mash distance metric is based on simple set intersections, which are compatible with homomorphic encryption schemes. To facilitate integration with other software, Mash is implemented as a lightweight C++ toolkit and freely released under a BSD license at https://github.com/marbl/mash.', u'Recent advances in neural network modelling have enabled major strides in computer vision and other artificial intelligence applications. Human-level visual recognition abilities are coming within reach of artificial systems. Artificial neural networks are inspired by the brain and their computations could be implemented in biological neurons. Convolutional feedforward networks, which now dominate computer vision, take further inspiration from the architecture of the primate visual hierarchy. However, the current models are designed with engineering goals and not to model brain computations. Nevertheless, initial studies comparing internal representations between these models and primate brains find surprisingly similar representational spaces. With human-level performance no longer out of reach, we are entering an exciting new era, in which we will be able to build neurobiologically faithful feedforward and recurrent computational models of how biological brains perform high-level feats of intelligence, including vision.', u'We present a mechanism by which organisms with only a single photoreceptor, that have a monochromatic view of the world, can achieve color discrimination. The combination of an off axis pupil and the principle of chromatic aberration (where light of different colors focus at different distances behind a lens) can combine to provide color-blind animals with a way to distinguish colors. As a specific example we constructed a computer model of the visual system of cephalopods, (octopus, squid, and cuttlefish) that have a single unfiltered photoreceptor type. Nevertheless, cephalopods dramatically change color both to produce chromatically matched camouflage and to signal conspecifics. This presents a paradox, an apparent ability to determine color in organisms with a monochromatic visual system that has been a long-standing puzzle. We demonstrate that chromatic blurring dominates the visual acuity in these animals, and we quantitatively show how chromatic aberration can be exploited, especially through non axial pupils that are characteristic of cephalopods, to obtain spectral information. This mechanism is consistent with the extensive suite of visual/behavioral and physiological data that have been obtained from cephalopod studies, and resolves the apparent paradox of vivid chromatic behaviors in color-blind animals. Moreover, this proposed mechanism has potential applicability in any organisms with limited photoreceptor complements, such as spiders and dolphins.', u'The addition of molecular biomarkers is needed to increase the accuracy of pathologic factors as prognosticators of outcome in penile squamous cell carcinomas (SCC). Evaluation of these biomarkers is usually carried out by immunohistochemistry. Herein we assess p53 immunohistochemical expression on tissue samples of penile SCC using freely-available, open-source software packages for digital image analysis. We also compared the results of digital analysis with standard visual estimation. Percentages of p53 positive cells were higher by visual estimation than by digital analysis. However, correlation was high between both methods. Our study shows that evaluation of p53 immunohistochemical expression is feasible using open-source software packages for digital image analysis. Although our analysis was limited to penile SCC, the rationale should also hold for other tumor types in which evaluation of p53 immunohistochemical expression is required. This approach would reduce interobserver variability, and would provide a standardized method for reporting the results of immunohistochemical stains. As these diagnostic tools are freely-available online, researchers and practicing pathologists could incorporate them in their daily practice without increasing diagnostic costs.', u'Brains and sensory systems evolved to guide motion. Central to this task is controlling the approach to stationary obstacles and detecting moving organisms. Looming has been proposed as the main monocular visual cue for detecting the approach of other animals and avoiding collisions with stationary obstacles. Elegant neural mechanisms for looming detection have been found in the brain of insects and vertebrates. However, looming has not been analyzed in the context of collisions between two moving animals. We propose an alternative strategy, Generalized Regressive Motion (GRM), which is consistent with recently observed behavior in fruit flies. Geometric analysis proves that GRM is a reliable cue to collision among conspecifics, whereas agent-based modeling suggests that GRM is a better cue than looming as a means to detect approach, prevent collisions and maintain mobility.', u'EuroAmerican land use and its legacies have transformed forest structure and composition across the United States (US). More accurate reconstructions of historical states are critical to understanding the processes governing past, current, and future forest dynamics. Gridded (8x8km) estimates of pre-settlement (1800s) forests from the upper Midwestern US (Minnesota, Wisconsin, and most of Michigan) using 19th Century Public Land Survey (PLS) records provide relative composition, biomass, stem density, and basal area for 26 tree genera. This mapping is more robust than past efforts, using spatially varying correction factors to accommodate sampling design, azimuthal censoring, and biases in tree selection.\nWe compare pre-settlement to modern forests using Forest Inventory and Analysis (FIA) data, with respect to structural changes and the prevalence of lost forests, pre-settlement forests with no current analogue, and novel forests, modern forests with no past analogs. Differences between PLSS and FIA forests are spatially structured as a result of differences in the underlying ecology and land use impacts in the Upper Midwestern United States. Modern biomass is higher than pre-settlement biomass in the northwest (Minnesota and north-eastern Wisconsin, including regions that were historically open savanna), and lower in the east (eastern Wisconsin and Michigan), due to shifts in species composition and, presumably, average stand age. Modern forests are more homogeneous, and ecotonal gradients are more diffuse today than in the past. Novel forest assemblages represent 29% of all FIA cells, while 25% of pre-settlement forests no longer exist in a modern context.\nLost forests are centered around the forests of the Tension Zone, particularly in hemlock dominated forests of north-central Wisconsin, and in oak-elm-basswood forests along the forest-prairie boundary in south central Minnesota and eastern Wisconsin. Novel FIA forest assemblages are distributed evenly across the region, but novelty shows a strong relationship to spatial distance from remnant forests in the upper Midwest, with novelty predicted at between 20 to 60km from remnants, depending on historical forest type.\nThe spatial relationships between remnant and novel forests, shifts in ecotone structure and the loss of historic forest types point to significant challenges to land managers if landscape restoration is a priority in the region. The spatial signals of novelty and ecological change also point to potential challenges in using modern spatial distributions of species and communities and their relationship to underlying geophysical and climatic attributes in understanding potential responses to changing climate. The signal of human settlement on modern forests is broad, spatially varying and acts to homogenize modern forests relative to their historic counterparts, with significant implications for future management.', u"QPot is an R package for analyzing two-dimensional systems of stochastic differential equations. It provides users with a wide range of tools to simulate, analyze, and visualize the dynamics of these systems. One of QPot's key features is the computation of the quasi-potential, an important tool for studying stochastic systems. Quasi-potentials are particularly useful for comparing the relative stabilities of equilibria in systems with alternative stable states. This paper describes QPot's primary functions, and explains how quasi-potentials can yield insights about the dynamics of stochastic systems. Three worked examples guide users through the application of QPot's functions.", u'Summary: How can I quickly find the key events in a pathway that I need to monitor to predict that a/an beneficial/adverse event/outcome will occur? This is a key question when using signaling pathways for drug/chemical screening in pharmacology, toxicology and risk assessment. By identifying these sufficient causal key events, we have fewer events to monitor for a pathway, thereby decreasing assay costs and time, while maximizing the value of the information. I have developed the "aop" package which uses back-door analysis of causal networks to identify these minimal sets of key events that are sufficient for making causal predictions. \nAvailability and Implementation: The source for the aop package is available online at Github at https://github.com/DataSciBurgoon/aop and can be installed using the R devtools package. The aop package runs within the R statistical environment. The package has functions that can take pathways (as directed graphs) formatted as a Cytoscape JSON file as input, or pathways can be represented as directed graphs using the R/Bioconductor "graph" package. The "aop" package has functions that can perform backdoor analysis to identify the minimal set of key events for making causal predictions.\nContact: lyle.d.burgoon@usace.army.mil', u"Two-photon calcium imaging of the brain allows the spatiotemporal activity of neuronal networks to be monitored at cellular resolution. In order to analyse this activity it must first be possible to detect, with high temporal resolution, spikes from the time series corresponding to single neurons. Previous work has shown that finite rate of innovation (FRI) theory can be used to reconstruct spike trains from noisy calcium imaging data. In this paper we extend the FRI framework for spike detection from calcium imaging data to encompass data generated by a larger class of calcium indicators, including the genetically encoded indicator GCaMP6s. Furthermore, we implement least squares model-order estimation and perform a noise reduction procedure ('pre-whitening') in order to increase the robustness of the algorithm. We demonstrate high spike detection performance on real data generated by GCaMP6s, detecting 90% of electrophysiologically-validated spikes.", u'With the rapid decline cost of sequencing, it is now clinically affordable to examine multiple genes in a single disease-targeted test using next generation sequencing. Current targeted sequencing methods require a separate step of targeted capture enrichment during sample preparation before sequencing, and the library preparation process is labor intensive and time consuming. Here, we introduced an amplification-free Single Molecule Targeted Sequencing (SMTS) technology, which combined targeted capture and sequencing in one step. We demonstrated that this technology can detect low-frequency mutations of cancer genes. SMTS has several advantages, namely that it requires little sample preparation and avoids biases and errors introduced by PCR reaction. This technology can be applied in cancer gene mutation detection, inherited condition screening and high-resolution human leukocyte antigen (HLA) typing.', u'One of the most important needs in the post-genome era is providing the researchers with reliable and efficient computational tools to extract and analyze this huge amount of biological data, in which DNA copy number variation (CNV) is a vitally important one. Array-based comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) is a common approach in order to detect CNVs. Most of methods for this purpose were proposed for one-dimensional profile. However, slightly this focus has moved from one- to multi-dimensional signals. In addition, since contamination of these profiles with noise is always an issue, it is highly important to have a robust method for analyzing multisample aCGH data. In this paper, we propose Robust Grouped Fused Lasso (RGFL) which utilizes the Robust Group Total Variations (RGTV). Instead of l2;1 norm, the l1-l2 M-estimator is used which is more robust in dealing with non-Gaussian noise and high corruption. More importantly, Correntropy (Welsch M-estimator) is also applied for fitting error. Extensive experiments indicate that the proposed method outperforms the state-of-the art algorithms and techniques under a wide range of scenarios with diverse noises.', u'The refractile (R) bodies found in Caedibacter taeniospiralis, a bacterial endosymbiont of Paramecium tetraurelia, are large, polymeric protein structures that can switch between two conformations. At cytoplasmic pH, they resemble coiled ribbons of protein 500nm in diameter. At low pH, they extend to form hollow needles up to 20 microns long. They can be expressed heterologously from an operon containing four short open reading frames and can function in vitro in diverse buffer conditions.\nIn this study, R bodies purified from Escherichia coli were found to be capable of undergoing many consecutive extension-contraction cycles. Furthermore, the solubility of R bodies, which can easily be interpreted by eye, was found to correlate with their extension state. This macroscopic phenotype was used to develop a quantitative, high-throughput assay for R body state, enabling a visual screen of R body mutants defective in extension. The role of specific amino acids in extension was determined, and this information was used to construct rationally-designed mutants tailored to extend at higher pH. Furthermore, R bodies were able to rupture E. coli spheroplasts to release soluble proteins across lipid bilayers. Taken together, these results show that R bodies act as tunable, pH-actuated pistons suitable for a variety of membrane-breaking applications.', u'The Out-of-Africa (OOA) dispersal ~50,000 years ago is characterized by a series of founder events as modern humans expanded into multiple continents. Population genetics theory predicts an increase of mutational load in populations undergoing serial founder effects during range expansions. To test this hypothesis, we have sequenced full genomes and high-coverage exomes from 7 geographically divergent human populations from Namibia, Congo, Algeria, Pakistan, Cambodia, Siberia and Mexico. We find that individual genomes vary modestly in the overall number of predicted deleterious alleles. We show via spatially explicit simulations that the observed distribution of deleterious allele frequencies is consistent with the OOA dispersal, particularly under a model where deleterious mutations are recessive. We conclude that there is a strong signal of purifying selection at conserved genomic positions within Africa, but that many predicted deleterious mutations have evolved as if they were neutral during the expansion out of Africa. Under a model where selection is inversely related to dominance, we show that OOA populations are likely to have a higher mutation load due to increased allele frequencies of nearly neutral variants that are recessive or partially recessive.', u'Motivation: Bioinformatics analyses have become increasingly intensive computing processes, with lowering costs and increasing numbers of samples. Each laboratory spends time creating and maintaining a set of pipelines, which may not be robust, scalable, or efficient. Further, the existence of different computing environments across institutions hinders both collabo-ration and the portability of analysis pipelines. \n\nResults: Flowr is a robust and scalable framework for designing and deploying computing pipelines in an easy-to-use fashion. It implements a scatter-gather approach using computing clusters, simplifying the concept to the use of five simple terms (in submission and dependency types). Most importantly, it is flexible, such that customizing existing pipelines is easy, and since it works across several computing environments (LSF, SGE, Torque, and SLURM), it is portable.\n\nAvailability: http://docs.flowr.space', u'DNA-binding proteins control many fundamental biological processes such as transcription, recombination and replication. A major goal is to decipher the role that DNA sequence plays in orchestrating the binding and activity of such regulatory proteins. To address this goal, it is useful to rationally design DNA sequences with desired numbers, affinities and arrangements of protein binding sites. However, removing binding sites from DNA is computationally non-trivial since one risks creating new sites in the process of deleting or moving others. Here we present an online binding site removal tool, SiteOut, that enables users to design arbitrary DNA sequences that entirely lack binding sites for factors of interest. SiteOut can also be used to delete sites from a specific sequence, or to introduce site-free spacers between functional sequences without creating new sites at the junctions. In combination with commercial DNA synthesis services, SiteOut provides a powerful and flexible platform for synthetic projects that interrogate regulatory DNA. Here we describe the algorithm and illustrate the ways in which SiteOut can be used; it is publicly available at https://depace.med.harvard.edu/siteout/', u'Due to the lack of recombination, the male-specific region of the Y chromosome (MSY) is a unique resource for tracking the genetic history of populations. The MSY is also enriched for large, nearly identical repetitive regions known as amplicons, which harbor many of the genes essential for spermatogenesis. In humans, sequence diversity on the unique segment of the MSY is greatly reduced compared to the autosomes, an observation consistent with the action of strong selection. Here, we analyze 9 chimpanzee (representing three subspecies: Pan troglodytes schweinfurthii, Pan troglodytes ellioti, and Pan troglodytes verus) and two Pan paniscus male whole-genome sequences to assess Y chromosome nucleotide and ampliconic copy-number diversity across the Pan genus. In total, we identified 23,946 Pan spp. SNVs across 4.2 million callable sites. Comparisons with autosomal, X chromosome, and mitochondrial sequences from the same samples indicate that nucleotide diversity on the chimpanzee MSY is reduced relative to neutral expectations with an equal sex ratio. Additionally, the estimated common chimpanzee Y chromosome TMRCA (0.44 mya [0.31-0.56]) is half the age of the mitochondria TMRCA (0.97 mya [0.65-1.35]), indicating an unequal sex ratio or Y chromosome selection in the common chimpanzee ancestral population. We observe that the copy-number of Y chromosome amplicons is variable amongst chimpanzees and bonobos, and identify several lineage-specific patterns, including variable copy-number of the testis-expressed genes RBMY and DAZ. We detect recurrent switchpoints of copy-number change along the ampliconic tracts across chimpanzee populations, which may be the result of localized genome instability or selective forces.', u'Forward and reverse genetic screens represent powerful methods to uncover new components for any biological process, but suffer from gene cloning or throughput bottleneck issues, respectively. Here, we employ an innovative approach to gene discovery: we screened a C. elegans whole-genome sequenced multi-mutation library for our phenotype of interest,\nnamely defective ciliated sensory neuron development, and performed the Sequence Kernel Association Test (SKAT) to rapidly identify genes exhibiting this phenotype. Our approach unveiled a novel gene, bgnt-1.1, that influences cilia length. Notably, the human orthologue B3GNT1/B4GAT1 is associated with Walker-Warburg syndrome, a suspected ciliary disorder.', u"Combining P-values from multiple statistical tests is a common exercise in bioinformatics. However, this procedure is non-trivial for dependent P-values. Here we discuss an empirical adaptation of Brown's Method (an extension of Fisher's Method) for combining dependent P-values which is appropriate for the correlated data sets found in high-throughput biological experiments.\nWe show that Fisher's Method is biased when used on dependent sets of P-values with both simulated data and gene expression data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). When applied on the same data sets, the Empirical Brown's Method provides a better null distribution and a more conservative result.\nThe Empirical Brown's Method is available in Python, R, and MATLAB and can be obtained from https://github.com/IlyaLab/CombiningDependentPvaluesUsingEBM.", u'Let a sensation magnitude \u03b3 be determined by a stimulus magnitude \u03b2. The Webers laws states that \u2206\u03b3 remains constant when the relative stimulus increment \u2206\u03b2 remains constant. It has been found that this law is actually a derivation of Bernoullis law were \u2206\u03b3 \u221d log \u2206\u03b2 . Recently, such psychophysical laws have been observed in the natural behaviour of certain intra/extracellular \u03b2 factors working in the Wnt pathway. This manuscript tests the veracity of the prevalence of such laws, albeit at a coarse level, using sensitivity analysis on biologically inspired computational causal models. Sensitivity analysis plays a crucial role in observing the behaviour of output of a variable given variations in the input. In this work, the variation in the effect of the predictive behaviour of the transcription complex (TRCMPLX) conditional on the evidences of gene expressions in normal and tumor samples is observed by varying the initially assigned values of conditional probability tables (cpt) for TRCMPLX. Preliminary analysis shows that the variation in predictive behaviour of TRCMPLX conditional on gene evidences follows power and logarithmic psychophysical law crudely. This implies deviations in output are proportional to increasing function of deviations in input and shows constant behaviour for recorded deviations in higher values of the input. This points towards stability in the behaviour of TRCMPLX and is reflected in the\tpreserved gene-gene interactions. These interactions are obtained by thresholding the inferred conditional probabilities of a gene activation given the status of another gene activation. The deviation in the interactions in normal and tumor samples was also observed by varying the initially assigned values of cpt for \u03b2-catenin based TRCMPLX. Analysis of deviation in interactions show prevalence of power-logarithmic psychophysical law. This prevalence is reported for interaction between elements of pairs (SFRP3, MYC), (SFRP2, CD44) and (DKK1, DACT2). Dynamic models of Bayesian networks might reveal the phenomena in a better way.', u'Rawcopy is an R package for processing of Affymetrix CytoScan HD, CytoScan 750k and SNP 6.0 microarray raw intensities (CEL files). It uses data from a large number of reference samples to produce log ratio for total copy number analysis and B-allele frequency for allele-specific copy number and heterozygosity analysis. Rawcopy achieves higher signal-to-noise ratio than commonly used free and proprietary alternatives, leading to improved identification of copy number alterations. In addition, Rawcopy visualises each microarray sample for assessment of technical quality, patient identity and genome-wide absolute copy number states.', u'Models of cancer progression provide insights on the order of accumulation of genetic alterations during cancer development. Algorithms to infer such models from the currently available mutational profiles collected from different cancer patiens (cross-sectional data) have been defined in the literature since late 90s. These algorithms differ in the way they extract a graphical model of the events modelling the progression, e.g., somatic mutations or copy-number alterations.\n\nTRONCO is an R package for TRanslational ONcology which provides a serie of functions to assist the user in the analysis of cross sectional genomic data and, in particular, it implements algorithms that aim to model cancer progression by means of the notion of selective advantage. These algorithms are proved to outperform the current state-of-the-art in the inference of cancer progression models. TRONCO also provides functionalities to load input cross-sectional data, set up the execution of the algorithms, assess the statistical confidence in the results and visualize the models.\n\nAvailability. Freely available at http://www.bioconductor.org/ under GPL license; project hosted at http://bimib.disco.unimib.it/ and https://github.com/BIMIB-DISCo/TRONCO.\n\nContact. tronco@disco.unimib.it', u'The distribution of mutation fitness effects is central to evolutionary genetics. Typical univariate distributions, however, cannot model the effects of multiple mutations at the same site, so we introduce a model in which mutations at the same site have correlated fitness effects. To infer the strength of that correlation, we developed a diffusion approximation to the triallelic frequency spectrum, which we applied to data from D. melanogaster. We found a moderate correlation between the fitness effects of nonsynonymous mutations at the same codon, suggesting that both mutation identity and location are important for determining fitness effects in proteins. We validated our approach by comparing with biochemical mutational scanning experiments, finding strong quantitative agreement, even between different organisms.\nWe also found that the correlation of mutation fitness effects was not affected by protein solvent exposure or structural disorder. Together, our results suggest that the correlation of fitness effects at the same site is a previously overlooked yet fundamental property of protein evolution.', u'Face space provides a popular metaphor for the representation of individual faces. Although computer-graphics models of face space have a long history, their relationship to the cortical code for individual faces remains unclear. We used such a model to generate animations of faces with realistic 3D shape and texture and analyzed fMRI responses to each individual face. We developed and evaluated multiple neurobiologically plausible computational models of face-space coding, each of which predicts a representational geometry and a regional-mean activation profile. A population code of units with sigmoidal ramp tuning over the face-space dimensions explained both pattern and regional-mean fMRI effects better than alternative models, but only in conjunction with a readout-level population averaging mechanism. This model also accounted for perceptual similarity judgments. Our study demonstrates the importance of modeling readout-level population averaging and provides a computational account of the cortical representation underlying human face processing.', u'One of the central challenges in cancer research is identifying significant genes among thousands of others on a microarray. Since preventing outbreak and progression of cancer is the ultimate goal in bioinformatics and computational biology, detection of genes that are most involved is vital and crucial. In this article, we propose a Maximum-Minimum Correntropy Criterion (MMCC) approach for selection of biologically meaningful genes from microarray data sets which is stable, fast and robust against diverse noise and outliers and competitively accurate in comparison with other algorithms. Moreover, via an evolutionary optimization process, the optimal number of features for each data set is determined. Through broad experimental evaluation, MMCC is proved to be significantly better compared to other well-known gene selection algorithms for 25 commonly used microarray data sets. Surprisingly, high accuracy in classification by Support Vector Machine (SVM) is achieved by less than 10 genes selected by MMCC in all of the cases.', u'Research on the genetics of natural populations was revolutionized in the 1990\u2032s by methods for genotyping non-invasively collected samples. However, these methods have remained largely unchanged for the past 20 years and lag far behind the genomics era. To close this gap, here we report an optimized laboratory protocol for genome-wide capture of endogenous DNA from non-invasively collected samples, coupled with a novel computational approach to reconstruct pedigree links from the resulting low-coverage data. We validated both methods using fecal samples from 62 wild baboons, including 48 from an independently constructed extended pedigree. We enriched fecal-derived DNA samples up to 40-fold for endogenous baboon DNA, and reconstructed near-perfect pedigree relationships even with extremely low-coverage sequencing. We anticipate that these methods will be broadly applicable to the many research systems for which only non-invasive samples are available. The lab protocol and software (\u2033WHODAD\u2033) are freely available at www.tung-lab.org/protocols and www.xzlab.org/software, respectively.', u'Gene coexpression network modules provide a framework for identifying shared biological functions. Analysis of topological preservation of modules across datasets is important for assessing reproducibility, and can reveal common function between tissues, cell types, and species. Although module preservation statistics have been developed, heuristics have been required for significance testing. However, the scale of current and future analyses requires accurate and unbiased p-values, particularly to address the challenge of multiple testing. Here, we developed a rapid and efficient approach (NetRep) for assessing module preservation and show that module preservation statistics are typically non-normal, necessitating a permutation approach. Quantification of module preservation across brain, liver, adipose, and muscle tissues in a BxH mouse cross revealed complex patterns of multi-tissue preservation with 52% of modules showing unambiguous preservation in one or more tissues and 25% showing preservation in all four tissues. Phenotype association analysis uncovered a liver-derived gene module which harboured housekeeping genes and which also displayed adipose and muscle tissue specific association with body weight. Taken together, our study presents a rapid unbiased approach for testing preservation of gene network topology, thus enabling rigorous assessment of potentially conserved function and phenotype association analysis.', u'Damage to the mitochondrial genome (mtDNA) can lead to diseases for which there are no clearly effective treatments. Since mitochondrial function and biogenesis are controlled by the nutrient environment of the cell, it is possible that perturbation of conserved, nutrient-sensing pathways may successfully treat mitochondrial disease. We found that restricting glucose or otherwise reducing the activity of the protein kinase A (PKA) pathway can lead to improved proliferation of Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells lacking mtDNA and that the transcriptional response to mtDNA loss is reduced in cells with diminished PKA activity. We have excluded many pathways and proteins from being individually responsible for the benefits provided to cells lacking mtDNA by PKA inhibition, and we found that robust import of mitochondrial polytopic membrane proteins may be required in order for cells without mtDNA to receive the full benefits of PKA reduction. Finally, we have discovered that the transcription of genes involved in arginine biosynthesis and aromatic amino acid catabolism is altered after mtDNA damage. Our results highlight the potential importance of nutrient detection and availability on the outcome of mitochondrial dysfunction.', u'Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a chronic gastrointestinal inflammatory disorder that affects millions worldwide. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified 200 IBD-associated loci, but few have been conclusively resolved to specific functional variants. Here we report fine-mapping of 94 IBD loci using high-density genotyping in 67,852 individuals. Of the 139 independent associations identified in these regions, 18 were pinpointed to a single causal variant with >95% certainty, and an additional 27 associations to a single variant with >50% certainty.  These 45 variants are significantly enriched for protein-coding changes (n=13), direct disruption of transcription factor binding sites (n=3) and tissue specific epigenetic marks (n=10), with the latter category showing enrichment in specific immune cells among associations stronger in CD and gut mucosa among associations stronger in UC.  The results of this study suggest that high-resolution, fine-mapping in large samples can convert many GWAS discoveries into statistically convincing causal variants, providing a powerful substrate for experimental elucidation of disease mechanisms.', u'The brain has an impressive ability to withstand neural damage. Diseases that kill neurons can go unnoticed for years, and incomplete brain lesions or silencing of neurons often fail to produce any effect. How does the brain compensate for such damage, and what are the limits of this compensation? We propose that neural circuits optimally compensate for neuron death, thereby preserving their function as much as possible. We show that this compensation can explain changes in tuning curves induced by neuron silencing across a variety of systems, including the primary visual cortex. We find that optimal compensation can be implemented through the dynamics of networks with a tight balance of excitation and inhibition, without requiring synaptic plasticity. The limits of this compensatory mechanism are reached when excitation and inhibition become unbalanced, thereby demarcating a recovery boundary, where signal representation fails and where diseases may become symptomatic.', u'We describe a suite of predictive models, coined FASTmC, for non-reference, cost-effective exploration and comparative analysis of context-specific DNA methylation levels. Accurate estimations of true DNA methylation levels can be obtained from as few as several thousand short-reads generated from whole genome bisulfite sequencing. These models make high-resolution time course or developmental, and large diversity studies practical regardless of species, genome size and availability of a reference genome.', u'Siberia and Western Russia are home to over 40 culturally and linguistically diverse indigenous ethnic groups. Yet, genetic variation of peoples from this region is largely uncharacterized. We present whole-genome sequencing data from 28 individuals belonging to 14 distinct indigenous populations from that region. We combine these datasets with additional 32 modern-day and 15 ancient human genomes to build and compare autosomal, Y-DNA and mtDNA trees. Our results provide new links between modern and ancient inhabitants of Eurasia. Siberians share 38% of ancestry with descendants of the 45,000-year-old Ust-Ishim people, who were previously believed to have no modern-day descendants. Western Siberians trace 57% of their ancestry to the Ancient North Eurasians, represented by the 24,000-year-old Siberian Malta boy. In addition, Siberians admixtures are present in lineages represented by Eastern European hunter-gatherers from Samara, Karelia, Hungary and Sweden (from 8,000-6,600 years ago), as well as Yamnaya culture people (5,300-4,700 years ago) and modern-day northeastern Europeans. These results provide new evidence of ancient gene flow from Siberia into Europe.', u'Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a complex neurodevelopmental condition characterized by substantial phenotypic and genetic heterogeneity. Analyzing gene expression may reveal specific patterns of gene activation and repression associated with the disorder. For this, we developed a new analysis method based on a multivariate distance measure commonly used for outlier detection. Our method detects the discrepancies in gene expression dispersion between populations and allows the identification of aberrantly expressed genes in a two-group setting. Using this method, we re-visited RNA sequencing data previously generated from post-mortem brain tissues of 47 autistic and 57 control samples and identified a number of sets of genes with increased expression variability in autistics. The expression dispersion of these genes is more pronounced in autistics than controls. Many of these genes are known to be implicated in ASD, including those expressed in the synapse and those with neuropeptide binding function. Furthermore, we detected co-expressed gene modules among non-autistic controls and found that many of these modules disappear among autistics, due to the aberrant gene expression exclusively affecting ASD subjects. For the diagnostic purposes, we developed a greedy algorithm to globally search for classifier gene sets, for which the expression in peripheral blood samples of autistics is maximally deviant from that of non-autistic controls. We identified three classifier gene sets producing prominent and specific signals, which allowed the distinguishing of ASD from non-ASD samples. In summary, we have developed the aberrant gene expression analysis based on the multivariate, dispersion-specific measure, which is powerful in detecting increased gene expression variability functionally associated with ASD. Detecting aberrant gene expression and identifying underlying genes and mutations represent a new discovery and diagnostic strategy for genetically heterogeneous disorders like ASD.', u'This article is a Letter to the Editor of PNAS (Response to Briley et al, Quantification and real time tracking of RNA in live cells using Sticky flares. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 112(31), 9591).', u'Regularities in animal behaviour offer insight into the underlying organizational and functional principles of nervous systems and automated tracking provides the opportunity to extract features of behaviour directly from large-scale video data. Yet how to effectively analyse such behavioural data remains an open question. Here we explore whether a minimum description length principle can be exploited to identify meaningful behaviours and phenotypes. We apply a dictionary compression algorithm to behavioural sequences from the nematode worm Caenorhabditis elegans freely crawling on an agar plate both with and without food and during chemotaxis. We find that the motifs identified by the compression algorithm are rare but relevant for comparisons between worms in different environments, suggesting that hierarchical compression can be a useful step in behaviour analysis. We also use compressibility as a new quantitative phenotype and find that the behaviour of wild-isolated strains of C. elegans is more compressible than that of the laboratory strain N2 as well as the majority of mutant strains examined. Importantly, in distinction to more conventional phenotypes such as overall motor activity or aggregation behaviour, the increased compressibility of wild isolates is not explained by the loss of function of the gene npr-1, which suggests that erratic locomotion is a laboratory-derived trait with a novel genetic basis. Because hierarchical compression can be applied to any sequence, we anticipate that compressibility can offer insight into the organization of behaviour in other animals including humans.', u'Haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) arise in the embryo in the aorta-gonad-mesonephros region and the placenta, afterwards colonise the liver (and spleen) and finally the bone marrow, which, from birth on, remains the sole site of haematopoiesis. In mouse, after the fetal phase of rapid HSCs expansion, the number of these stem cells continues to increase after birth in order to sustain the growing blood volume of the developing infant. The number of total circulating reticulocytes seems to indicate that this growth stops around the third week of murine life, well before the whole animal stops to grow. Around the same time, a period of abundant lymphopoiesis ends. Human HSCs seem to show similar patterns during post-natal growth and these could be useful to understand the peculiar features of paediatric leukaemogenesis', u'The evolution of cooperation in group-structured populations has received much attention, but little is known about the effects of different modes of migration of individuals between groups. Here, we have incorporated four different modes of migration that differ in the degree of coordination among the individuals. For each mode of migration, we identify the set of multiplayer games in which the cooperative strategy has higher fixation probability than defection. The comparison shows that the set of games under which cooperation may evolve generally expands depending upon the degree of coordination among the migrating individuals. Weak altruism can evolve under all modes of individual migration, provided that the benefit to cost ratio is high enough. Strong altruism, however, evolves only if the mode of migration involves coordination of individual actions. Depending upon the migration frequency and degree of coordination among individuals, conditions that allow selection to work at the level of groups can be established.', u'Study question: How does a genetic variant altering follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) levels, which we identified as associated with length of menstrual cycle, more widely impact reproductive health?\nSummary answer: The T allele of the FSHB promoter polymorphism (rs10835638) results in longer menstrual cycles and later menopause and, while having detrimental effects on fertility, is protective against endometriosis.\nWhat is known already: The FSHB promoter polymorphism (rs10835638) affects levels of FSHB transcription and, as a result, levels of FSH. FSH is required for normal fertility and genetic variants at the FSHB locus are associated with age at menopause and polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).\nStudy design, size, duration: We conducted a genetic association study using cross-sectional data from the UK Biobank.\nParticipants/materials, setting, methods: We included white British individuals aged 40-69 years in 2006-2010, included in the May 2015 release of genetic data from UK Biobank. We conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) in 9,534 individuals to identify genetic variants associated with length of menstrual cycle. We tested the FSH lowering T allele of the FSHB promoter polymorphism (rs10835638) for associations with 29 reproductive phenotypes in up to 63,350 individuals.\nMain results and the role of chance: In the GWAS for menstrual cycle length, only variants near the FSHB gene reached genome-wide significance (P<5\xd710-8). The FSH-lowering T allele of the FSHB promoter polymorphism (rs10835638G>T; MAF 0.16) was associated with longer menstrual cycles (0.16 s.d. (approx. 1 day) per minor allele; 95% CI 0.12-0.20; P=6\xd710-16), later age at menopause (0.13 years per minor allele; 95% CI 0.04-0.22; P=5.7\xd710-3), greater female nulliparity (OR=1.06; 95% CI 1.02-1.11; P=4.8\xd710-3) and lower risk of endometriosis (OR=0.79; 95% CI 0.69-0.90; P=4.1\xd710-4). The FSH-lowering T allele was not associated more generally with other reproductive illnesses or conditions and we did not replicate associations with male infertility or PCOS.\nLimitations, reasons for caution: The data included might be affected by recall bias. Women with a cycle length recorded were aged over 40 and were approaching menopause, however we did not find evidence that this affected the results. Many of the illnesses had relatively small sample sizes and so we may have been under-powered to detect an effect. \nWider implications of the findings: We found a strong novel association between a genetic variant that lowers FSH levels and longer menstrual cycles, at a locus previously robustly associated with age at menopause. The variant was also associated with nulliparity and endometriosis risk. We conclude that lifetime differences in circulating levels of FSH between individuals can influence menstrual cycle length and a range of reproductive outcomes, including menopause timing, infertility, endometriosis and PCOS.', u'We have shown earlier that the evolution of rapid development is accompanied by a correlated decrease in larval feeding rate and competitive ability in laboratory populations of Drosophila melanogaster (Prasad et al. 2001; Shakarad et al. 2005). Here, we show that our faster developing populations have evolved higher hemocyte density and phenol oxidase activity in the larval hemolymph. The increased hemocyte density could be responsible for the evolution of decreased feeding rate as hemocytes and the cephalopharyngeal musculature share common embryonic precursor cells (Kraajiveld et al. 2001). We also show that the bacterial load in larval food vials of the faster developing populations is substantially higher than in controls. Our results suggest that the evolution of reduced competitive ability in the faster developing populations is probably due to larval feeding rate trading off with enhanced larval immune system function. Enhanced larval immune function, in turn, is most likely selected for due to the role of hemocytes (Lanot et al. 2001, Wood and Jacinto 2007) and phenol oxidase (Pentz et al. 1986) in development, and perhaps also due to inadvertent selection on immune performance resulting from the higher bacterial load faced by larvae in the faster developing populations.', u'Substitution rates are known to be variable among genes, chromosomes, species, and lineages due to multifarious biological processes. Here we consider another source of substitution rate variation due to a technical bias associated with gene tree discordance, which has been found to be rampant in genome-wide datasets, often due to incomplete lineage sorting (ILS). This apparent substitution rate variation is caused when substitutions that occur on discordant gene trees are analyzed in the context of a single, fixed species tree. Such substitutions have to be resolved by proposing multiple substitutions on the species tree, and we therefore refer to this phenomenon as "SPILS" (Substitutions Produced by Incomplete Lineage Sorting). We use simulations to demonstrate that SPILS has a larger effect with increasing levels of ILS, and on trees with larger numbers of taxa. Specific branches of the species trees are consistently, but erroneously, inferred to be longer or shorter, and we show that these branches can be predicted based on discordant tree topologies. Moreover, we observe that fixing a species tree topology when performing tests of positive selection increases the false positive rate, particularly for genes whose discordant topologies are most affected by SPILS. Finally, we use data from multiple Drosophila species to show that SPILS can be detected in nature. While the effects of SPILS are modest per gene, it has the potential to affect substitution rate variation whenever high levels of ILS are present, particularly in rapid radiations. The problems outlined here have implications for character mapping of any type of trait, and for any biological process that causes discordance. We discuss possible solutions to these problems, and areas in which they are likely to have caused faulty inferences of convergence and accelerated evolution.', u'Viruses interact with hundreds to thousands of proteins in mammals, yet adaptation against viruses has only been studied in a few proteins specialized in antiviral defense. Whether adaptation to viruses typically involves only specialized antiviral proteins or affects a broad array of proteins is unknown. Here, we analyze adaptation in ~1,300 virus-interacting proteins manually curated from a set of 9,900 proteins conserved across mammals. We show that viruses (i) use the more evolutionarily constrained proteins from the cellular functions they hijack and that (ii) despite this high constraint, virus-interacting proteins account for a high proportion of all protein adaptation in humans and other mammals. Adaptation is elevated in virus-interacting proteins across all functional categories, including both immune and non-immune functions. Our results demonstrate that viruses are one of the most dominant drivers of evolutionary change across mammalian and human proteomes.', u"Abstract Flexible information routing fundamentally underlies the function of many biological and artificial networks. Yet, how such systems may specifically communicate and dynamically route information is not well understood. Here we identify a generic mechanism to route information on top of collective dynamical reference states in complex networks. Switching between collective dynamics induces flexible reorganization of information sharing and routing patterns, as quantified by delayed mutual information and transfer entropy measures between activities of a network's units. We demonstrate the power of this generic mechanism specifically for oscillatory dynamics and analyze how individual unit properties, the network topology and external inputs coact to systematically organize information routing. For multi-scale, modular architectures, we resolve routing patterns at all levels. Interestingly, local interventions within one sub-network may remotely determine non-local network-wide communication. These results help understanding and designing information routing patterns across systems where collective dynamics co-occurs with a communication function.", u"Object similarity, in brain representations and conscious perception, must reflect a combination of the visual appearance of the objects on the one hand and the categories the objects belong to on the other. Indeed, visual object features and category membership have each been shown to contribute to the object representation in human inferior temporal (IT) cortex, as well as to object-similarity judgments. However, the explanatory power of features and categories has not been directly compared. Here, we investigate whether the IT object representation and similarity judgments are best explained by a categorical or a feature-based model. We use rich models (> 100 dimensions) generated by human observers for a set of 96 real-world object images. The categorical model consists of a hierarchically nested set of category labels (such as 'human', 'mammal', 'animal'). The feature model includes both object parts (such as 'eye', 'tail', 'handle') and other descriptive features (such as 'circular', 'green', 'stubbly'). We used non-negative least squares to fit the models to the brain representations (estimated from functional magnetic resonance imaging data) and to similarity judgments. Model performance was estimated on held-out images not used in fitting. Both models explained significant variance in IT and the amounts explained were not significantly different. The combined model did not explain significant additional IT variance, suggesting that it is the shared model variance (features correlated with categories, categories correlated with features) that best explains IT. The similarity judgments were almost fully explained by the categorical model, which explained significantly more variance than the feature-based model. The combined model did not explain significant additional variance in the similarity judgments. Our findings suggest that IT uses features that help to distinguish categories as stepping stones toward a semantic representation. Similarity judgments contain additional categorical variance that is not explained by visual features, reflecting a higher-level more purely semantic representation.\n\nKeywords: object vision, categories, features, human inferior temporal cortex, fMRI, representational similarity analysis", u'Mechanics plays a key role in the development of higher organisms. For example, during fruit-fly gastrulation, local forces generated by the acto-myosin meshwork in the region of the future mesoderm lead to formation of a ventral tissue fold. The process is accompanied by substantial changes in cell shape and long-range cell movements whose origin is not understood.\nIt has proven difficult to model the link between local forces, generated at the subcellular level, and global tissue deformation. Here, we adopt an approach first developed for lipid bilayers and cell membranes, in which we model force-generation at the cytoskeletal level as resulting in local changes in preferred tissue curvature. The continuum mechanics problem can thus be completely formulated in terms of tissue strains, which is desirable since mechanical forces themselves are often unknown. The solution then yields global morphogenetic predictions that accommodate the tendency towards this local preferred curvature. Computer simulations, especially in three dimensions, face the additional challenge of high complexity of shapes, gene expression patterns, and mechanical constraints. Our computational framework, which we call SPHARM-MECH, extends a three-dimensional spherical harmonics parameterization known as SPHARM to address this challenge.\nUsing SPHARM-MECH in combination with whole-embryo light-sheet-based live imaging, we study mesoderm invagination in the fruit-fly embryo. Our analysis reveals a striking correlation between calculated and observed tissue movements, predicts the observed cell shape anisotropy on the ventral side of the embryo, and suggests an active mechanical role of the mesoderm invagination process in supporting the first phase of germ-band extension.', u"Genome assemblies that are accurate, complete, and contiguous are essential for identifying important structural and functional elements of genomes and for identifying genetic variation. Nevertheless, most recent genome assemblies remain incomplete and fragmented. While long molecule sequencing promises to deliver more complete genome assemblies with fewer gaps, concerns about error rates, low yields, stringent DNA requirements, and uncertainty about best practices may discourage many investigators from adopting this technology. Here, in conjunction with the gold standard Drosophila melanogaster reference genome, we analyze recently published long molecule sequencing data to identify what governs completeness and contiguity of genome assemblies. We also present a meta-assembly tool for improving contiguity of final assemblies constructed via different methods. Our results motivate a set of preliminary best practices for assembly, a 'missing manual' that guides key decisions in building high quality de novo genome assemblies, from DNA isolation to polishing the assembly.", u'Ursids (bears) in general, and giant pandas in particular, are highly altricial at birth. The components of bear milks and their changes with time may be uniquely adapted to nourish relatively immature neonates, protect them from pathogens, and support the maturation of neonatal digestive physiology. Serial milk samples collected from three giant pandas in early lactation were subjected to untargeted metabolite profiling and multivariate analysis. Changes in milk metabolites with time after birth were analysed by Principal Component Analysis, Hierarchical Cluster Analysis and further supported by Orthogonal Partial Least Square-Discriminant Analysis, revealing three phases of milk maturation: days 1-6 (Phase 1), days 7-20 (Phase 2), and beyond day 20 (Phase 3). While the compositions of Phase 1 milks were essentially indistinguishable among individuals, divergences emerged during the second week of lactation. OPLS regression analysis positioned against the growth rate of one cub tentatively inferred a correlation with changes in the abundance of a trisaccharide, isoglobotriose, previously observed to be a major oligosaccharide in ursid milks. Three artificial milk formulae used to feed giant panda cubs were also analysed, and were found to differ markedly in component content from natural panda milk. These findings have implications for the dependence of the ontogeny of all species of bears, and potentially other members of the Carnivora and beyond, on the complexity and sequential changes in maternal provision of micrometabolites in the immediate period after birth.', u"In this article I present a reproducible review of recent research to investigate the spatial positioning of neurons in the nervous system.  In particular, I focus on the relative spatial positioning of pairs of cell types within the retina.  I examine three different cases by which two types of neurons might be arranged relative to each other.  (1) Cells of different type might be effectively independent of each other. (2) Cells of one type are randomly assigned one of two labels to create two related populations. (3) Interactions between cells of different type generate functional dependencies.  I show briefly how spatial statistic techniques can be applied to investigate the nature of spatial interactions between two cell types.\n\nFinally, I have termed this article a `reproducible review' because all the data and computer code are integrated into the manuscript so that others can repeat the analysis presented here.  I close the review with a discussion of this concept.", u"Existing methods for interpreting protein variation focus on annotating mutation pathogenicity rather than detailed interpretation of variant deleteriousness and frequently use only sequence-based or structure-based information. We present VIPUR, a computational framework that seamlessly integrates sequence analysis and structural modeling (using the Rosetta protein modeling suite) to identify and interpret deleterious protein variants. To train VIPUR, we collected 9,477 protein variants with known effects on protein function from multiple organisms and curated structural models for each variant from crystal structures and homology models. VIPUR can be applied to mutations in any organism's proteome with improved generalized accuracy (AUROC .83) and interpretability (AUPR .87) compared to other methods. We demonstrate that VIPUR's predictions of deleteriousness match the biological phenotypes in ClinVar and provide a clear ranking of prediction confidence. We use VIPUR to interpret known mutations associated with inflammation and diabetes, demonstrating the structural diversity of disrupted functional sites and improved interpretation of mutations associated with human diseases. Lastly we demonstrate VIPUR's ability to highlight candidate genes associated with human diseases by applying VIPUR to de novo variants associated with autism spectrum disorders.", u'Abstract: The ascidian tunicate Corella inflata is relatively transparent compared to other solitary tunicates and the circulatory system can be visualized by injecting high molecular weight fluorescein labeled dextran into the beating heart or the large vessels at the ends of the heart. In addition, after staining with neutral red the movement of blood cells can be followed to further define and characterize the circulatory system. The heart is a gently curved tube with a constriction in the middle and extends across the width of the animal. As in other tunicates, pumping is peristaltic and periodically reverses direction. During the abvisceral directional phase blood leaves the anterior end of the heart in two asymmetric vessels that connect to the two sides of the branchial basket (or pharynx), in contrast to the direct connection between the heart and the endostyle seen in the commonly studied tunicate Ciona intestinalis. In Corella inflata blood then flows in both transverse directions through a complex system of ducts in the branchial basket into large ventral and dorsal vessels and then to the visceral organs in the posterior of the animal. During the advisceral phase blood leaves the posterior end of the heart in vessels that repeatedly bifurcate to fan into the stomach and gonads. Blood speed, determined by following individual cells, is high and pulsatory near the heart, but decreases and becomes more constant in peripheral regions. Estimated blood flow volume during one directional phase is greater than the total volume of the animal. Circulating blood cells are confined to vessels or ducts in the visible parts of the animal and retention of high molecular weight dextran in the vessels is comparable to that seen in vertebrates. These flow patterns are consistent with a closed circulatory network.\nAdditional key words: heart, pharynx, branchial basket, blood circulation, blood velocity', u'Insight, Innovation and Integration\nSimulation study involving computational experiments dealing with Wnt signaling pathways abound in literature but often lack a pedagogical perspective that might ease the understanding of beginner students and researchers in transition who intend to work on modeling of the pathway. This paucity might happen due to restrictive policies which enforce an unwanted embargo on the sharing of important scientific knowledge. The manuscript elucidates embedding of prior biological knowledge, integration of heterogeneous information, transformation of biological hypothesis into computational framework and design of experiments in a simple manner interleaved with aspects of Bayesian Network toolbox and Matlab code so as to help readers get a feel of a project related to modeling of the pathway.\nAbstract\nA tutorial introduction to computational modeling of Wnt signaling pathway in a human colorectal cancer dataset using static Bayesian network models is provided. The walkthrough might aid bio-logists/informaticians in understanding the design of computational experiments that is interleaved with exposition of the Matlab code and causal models from Bayesian Network toolbox. This is done in order to ease the understanding of beginner students and researchers in transition to computational signaling biology, who intend to work in the field of modeling of signaling pathways. The manuscript expounds the computational flow of the contents in advance article 1 via code development and takes the reader in a step by step process of how (1) the collection and the transformation of the available biological information from literature is done, (2) the integration of the heterogeneous data and prior biological knowledge in the network is achieved, (3) conditional probability tables for nodes in biologically inspired tables are estimated, (4) the simulation study is designed, (5) the hypothesis regarding a biological phenomena is transformed into computational framework, and (6) results and inferences drawn using d-connectivity/separability are reported. The manuscript finally ends with a programming assignment to help the readers get hands on experience of a perturbation project. Matlab code with dataset is made available under GNU GPL v3 license at google code project on https://code.google.com/p/ static-bn-for-wnt-signaling-pathway', u"1.  Matrix models or integral projection models (IPMs) are commonly used to study the dynamics of structured populations, where discrete or continuous traits influence survival, growth, or reproduction. When a population's size is small, as is often the case for threatened species or potentially invasive species arriving in novel habitats, extinction risk may be substantial due to demographic stochasticity.\n2. Branching processes, which are individual-based counterparts to matrix models and IPMs, allow one to quantify these risks of extinction. For discretely structured populations, the theory of multi-type branching processes provides analytic methods to compute how extinction risk changes over time and how it depends on the size and composition of the population. Building on prior work on continuous-state branching processes, we extend these analytic methods to individual-based models accounting for any mixture of discrete and continuous population structure.\n3. The individual-based IPMs are defined by probabilistic update rules at the level of the individual which determine how each individual with a given trait value dies, changes trait value (e.g. grows in size), or produces individuals with the same or other trait values.  Probabilities of extinction are shown to be analytically determined by probability generating functionals associated with the individual-based IPMs. In particular, we present analytical expressions for how extinction probabilities change over time and depend on the initial abundance and trait distribution of the population.   We illustrate how to numerically implement these methods using data from the short-lived desert shrub species \\emph{Cryptantha flava}, and provide a more general discussion of how to implement these methods to other data sets including those involving fluctuating environmental conditions.\n4. As most IPM studies have the necessary data to parameterize individual-based IPMs, these methods provide a computationally efficient means to explore how continuously structured populations differing in their evolutionary history and environmental context may differ in their vulnerability to extinction or ability to colonize new habitats.", u'Genetic studies of African-Americans identify functional variants, elucidate historical and genealogical mysteries, and reveal basic biology. However, African-Americans have been under-represented in genetic studies, and little is known about nation-wide patterns of genomic diversity in the population. Here, we present a comprehensive assessment of African-American genomic diversity using genotype data from nationally and regionally representative cohorts. We find higher African ancestry in southern United States compared to the North and West. We show that relatedness patterns track north- and west-bound routes followed during the Great Migration, suggesting that admixture occurred predominantly in the South prior to the Civil War and that ancestry-biased migration is responsible for regional differences in ancestry. Rare genetic traits among African-Americans can therefore be shared over long geographic distances along the Great Migration routes, yet their distribution over short distances remains highly structured. This study clarifies the role of re- cent demography in shaping African-American genomic diversity.', u'The Heliconius butterflies are a widely studied adaptive radiation of 46 species spread across Central and South America, several of which are known to hybridise in the wild. Here, we present a substantially improved assembly of the Heliconius melpomene genome, developed using novel methods that should be applicable to improving other genome assemblies produced using short read sequencing. Firstly, we whole genome sequenced a pedigree to produce a linkage map incorporating 99% of the genome. Secondly, we incorporated haplotype scaffolds extensively to produce a more complete haploid version of the draft genome. Thirdly, we incorporated ~20x coverage of Pacific Biosciences sequencing and scaffolded the haploid genome using an assembly of this long read sequence. These improvements result in a genome of 795 scaffolds, 275 Mb in length, with an L50 of 2.1 Mb, an N50 of 34 and with 99% of the genome placed and 84% anchored on chromosomes. We use the new genome assembly to confirm that the Heliconius genome underwent 10 chromosome fusions since the split with its sister genus Eueides, over a period of about 6 million years.', u'Although single genes underlying several evolutionary adaptations have been identified, the genetic basis of complex, polygenic adaptations has been far more challenging to pinpoint. Here we report that the budding yeast Saccharomyces paradoxus has recently evolved resistance to citrinin, a naturally occurring mycotoxin. Applying a genome-wide test for selection on cis-regulation, we identified five genes involved in the citrinin response that are constitutively up-regulated in S. paradoxus. Four of these genes are necessary for resistance, and are also sufficient to increase the resistance of a sensitive strain when over-expressed. Moreover, cis-regulatory divergence in the promoters of these genes contributes to resistance, while exacting a cost in the absence of citrinin. Our results demonstrate how the subtle effects of individual regulatory elements can be combined, via natural selection, into a complex adaptation. Our approach can be applied to dissect the genetic basis of polygenic adaptations in a wide range of species.', u'Multiple experimental evolution studies on D. melanogaster in the 1980s and 1990s indicated that enhanced competitive ability evolved primarily through increased larval tolerance to nitrogenous wastes and increased larval feeding and foraging rate, at the cost of efficiency of food conversion to biomass, and this became the widely accepted view of how adaptation to larval crowding evolves in fruitflies. We recently showed that populations of D. ananassae and D. n. nasuta subjected to extreme larval crowding evolved greater competitive ability without evolving higher feeding rates, primarily through a combination of reduced larval duration, faster attainment of minimum critical size for pupation, greater efficiency of food conversion to biomass, increased pupation height and, perhaps, greater urea/ammonia tolerance. This was a very different suite of traits than that seen to evolve under similar selection in D. melanogaster and was closer to the expectations from the theory of K-selection. At that time, we suggested two possible reasons for the differences in the phenotypic correlates of greater competitive ability seen in the studies with D. melanogaster and the other two species. First, that D. ananassae and D. n. nasuta had a very different genetic architecture of traits affecting competitive ability compared to the long-term, laboratory populations of D. melanogaster used in the earlier studies, either because the populations of the former two species were relatively recently wild-caught, or by virtue of being different species. Second, that the different evolutionary trajectories in D. ananassae and D. n. nasuta versus D. melanogaster were a reflection of differences in the manner in which larval crowding was imposed in the two sets of selection experiments. The D. melanogaster studies used a higher absolute density of eggs per unit volume of food, and a substantially larger total volume of food, than the studies on D. ananassae and D. n. nasuta. Here, we show that long-term laboratory populations of D. melanogaster, descended from some of the populations used in the earlier studies, evolve essentially the same set of traits as the D. ananassae and D. n. nasuta crowding-adapted populations when subjected to a similar larval density at low absolute volumes of food. As in the case of D. ananassae and D. n. nasuta, and in stark contrast to earlier studies with D. melanogaster, these crowding-adapted populations of D. melanogaster did not evolve greater larval feeding rates as a correlate of increased competitive ability. The present results clearly suggest that the suite of phenotypes through which the evolution of greater competitive ability is achieved in fruitflies depends critically not just on larval density per unit volume of food, but also on the total amount of food available in the culture vials. We discuss these results in the context of an hypothesis about how larval density and the height of the food column in culture vials might interact to alter the fitness costs and benefits of increased larval feeding rates, thus resulting in different routes to the evolution of greater competitive ability, depending on the details of exactly how the larval crowding was implemented.', u'Drugs of abuse implicate both reward learning and homeostatic regulation mechanisms of the brain. Theories of addiction, thus, have mostly depicted this phenomenon as pathology in either habit-based learning system or homeostatic mechanisms. Showing the limits of those accounts, we hypothesize that compulsive drug seeking arises from drugs hijacking a system that integrates homeostatic regulation mechanism with goal-directed action/behavior. Building upon a recently developed homeostatic reinforcement learning theory, we present a computational theory proposing that cocaine reinforces goal-directed drug-seeking due to its rapid homeostatic corrective effect, whereas its chronic use induces slow and long-lasting changes in homeostatic setpoint. Our theory accounts for key behavioral and neurobiological features of addiction, most notably, escalation of cocaine use, drug-primed craving and relapse, and individual differences underlying susceptibility to addiction. The theory also generates unique predictions about the mechanisms of cocaine-intake regulation and about\ncocaine-primed craving and relapse that are confirmed by new experiments.', u'I use a set of machines based on the concept of nested rule systems built on the a modified version of the Wolfram elemental cellular automata to investigate the role of recombination in providing resistance to ageing. Class III and class IV machines are observed to respond differently to recombination. Class IV machines show recombinational centring in their neutral networks whereas class III machines respond negatively to recombination. Rule 110 shows a unusual response to recombination.\nRecombination selects for resistance to recombination, the population moves to regions of genome space with high redundancy, this results in organisms with highly robust genomes, more likely to complete development and to be long lived. The increase in longevity may be sufficient to compensate for the costs of sex, including the two fold cost of sex, through increased reproductive potential in long lived organisms requiring long maturation times. Large complex species should therefore be resistant to invasion by asexual mutants whereas small simple organisms with early maturation should be vulnerable to invasion by asexual forms.', u'Fast and accurate detection of action potentials from neurophysiological data is key to the study of information processing in the nervous system. Previous work has shown that finite rate of innovation (FRI) theory can be used to successfully reconstruct spike trains from noisy calcium imaging data. This is due to the fact that calcium imaging data can be modeled as streams of decaying exponentials which are a subclass of FRI signals. Recent progress in the development of genetically encoded calcium indicators (GECIs) has produced protein calcium sensors that exceed the sensitivity of the synthetic dyes traditionally used in calcium imaging experiments. In this paper, we compare the suitability for spike detection of the kinetics of a new family of GECIs (the GCaMP6 family) with the synthetic dye Oregon Green BAPTA-1. We demonstrate the high performance of the FRI algorithm on surrogate data for each calcium indicator and we calculate the Crame \u0301r-Rao lower bound on the uncertainty of the position of a detected spike in calcium imaging data for each calcium indicator.', u'In planarian flatworms, the mechanisms underlying the   activity of collectively pluripotent adult stem cells (neoblasts) and their descendants can now be studied from the level of the individual gene to the entire animal.  Flatworms maintain startling developmental plasticity and regenerative capacity in response to variable  nutrient conditions or injury. We develop a model for cell dynamics in such animals, using methods of nonlinear dynamics, assuming that fully differentiated cells exert feedback control on neoblast activity.   Our model predicts a number of whole organism level and general cell biological and behaviours, some of which have been empirically observed or inferred in planarians and others  that have not. As previously observed empirically we find: 1) a curvilinear relationship between external food and planarian steady state size; 2) the fraction of neoblasts in the steady state is constant regardless of planarian size; 3) a burst of controlled apoptosis during regeneration after amputation as the number of differentiated cells are adjusted towards their correct homeostatic/steady state level.\nIn addition our model  describes the following properties that can inform and be tested by future experiments: 4) the strength of feedback control from differentiated cells to neoblasts (i.e. the activity of the signalling system) and from neoblasts on themselves in relation to absolute number depends upon the level of food in the environment; 5) planarians adjust size when food level reduces initially through increased apoptosis and then through a reduction in neoblast self-renewal  activity; 6) following wounding or excision of differentiated cells,  different time scales characterize  both recovery of size and the two feedback functions; 7) the temporal pattern of feedback controls differs noticeably during recovery from a removal or neoblasts or a removal of differentiated cells; and 8)  the signaling strength for apoptosis of differentiated cells depends upon both the absolute and relative deviations of the number of differentiated cells from their homeostatic level.  We  offer the first analytical framework for organizing experiments on planarian flatworm  stem cell dynamics in a form that allows models to be compared with quantitative cell data based on underlying molecular mechanisms and thus facilitates the interplay between empirical studies and modeling. This framework is the foundation for studying cell migration during wound repair, the determination of homeostatic levels of differentiated cells by natural selection, and stochastic effects.', u'Cancer arises from accumulation of somatic mutations and accompanying evolutionary selection for growth advantage. During the evolutionary process, an ancestor clone branches into multiple clones, yielding intratumor heterogeneity. However, principles underlying intratumor heterogeneity have been poorly understood. Here, to explore the principles, we built a cellular automaton model, termed the BEP model, which can reproduce the branching cancer evolution in silico.  We then extensively searched for conditions leading to high intratumor heterogeneity by performing simulations with various parameter settings on a supercomputer. Our result suggests that multiple driver genes of moderate strength can shape subclonal structures by positive natural selection. Moreover, we found that high mutation rate and a stem cell hierarchy can contribute to extremely high intratumor heterogeneity, which is characterized by fractal patterns, through neutral evolution. Collectively, This study identified the possible principles underlying intratumor heterogeneity, which provide novel insights into the origin of cancer robustness and evolvability.', u'Identifying sources of variation in DNA methylation levels is important for understanding gene regulation. Recently, bisulfite sequencing has become a popular tool for investigating DNA methylation levels. However, modeling bisulfite sequencing data is complicated by dramatic variation in coverage across sites and individual samples, and because of the computational challenges of controlling for genetic covariance in count data. To address these challenges, we present a binomial mixed model and an efficient, sampling-based algorithm (MACAU: Mixed model association for count data via data augmentation) for approximate parameter estimation and p-value computation. This framework allows us to simultaneously account for both the over-dispersed, count-based nature of bisulfite sequencing data, as well as genetic relatedness among individuals. Using simulations and two real data sets (whole genome bisulfite sequencing (WGBS) data from Arabidopsis thaliana and reduced representation bisulfite sequencing (RRBS) data from baboons), we show that our method provides well-calibrated test statistics in the presence of population structure. Further, it improves power to detect differentially methylated sites: in the RRBS data set, MACAU detected 1.6-fold more age-associated CpG sites than a beta-binomial model (the next best approach). Changes in these sites are consistent with known age-related shifts in DNA methylation levels, and are enriched near genes that are differentially expressed with age in the same population. Taken together, our results indicate that MACAU is an efficient, effective tool for analyzing bisulfite sequencing data, with particular salience to analyses of structured populations. MACAU is freely available at www.xzlab.org/software.html.', u'Recording the activity of neural populations at high sampling rates is a fundamental requirement for understanding computation in neural circuits. Two photon microscopy provides one promising approach towards this. However, neural circuits are three dimensional, and functional imaging in two dimensions fails to capture the 3D nature of neural dynamics. Electrically tunable lenses (ETLs) provide a simple and cheap method to extend laser scanning microscopy into the relatively unexploited third dimension. We have therefore incorporated them into our Adaptive Spiral Scanning (SSA) algorithm, which calculates kinematically efficient scanning strategies using radially modulated spiral paths. We characterised the response of the ETL, incorporated its dynamics using MATLAB models of the SSA algorithm and tested the models on populations of Izhikevich neurons of varying size and density. From this, we show that our algorithms can theoretically at least achieve sampling rates of 36.2 Hz compared to 21.6 Hz previously reported for 3D scanning techniques.', u'This study investigates the spatial and directional tuning of Multi-Unit Activity (MUA) in mouse primary visual cortex and how MUA can reflect spatiotemporal structures contained in moving gratings. Analysis of multi-shank laminar electrophysiological recordings from mouse primary visual cortex indicates a directional preference for moving gratings around 180\u25e6, while preferred spatial frequency peaks around 0.02 cycles per degree, which is similar as reported in single-unit studies. Using only features from MUA, we further achieved a significant performance in decoding spatial frequency or direc- tion of moving gratings, with average decoding performances of up to 58.54% for 8 directions, and 44% correctly identified spatial frequencies against chance level of 16.7%.', u'Over the last decade tremendous progress has been made towards a comparative understanding of gene regulatory evolution. However, we know little about how gene regulation evolves in birds, and how divergent genomes interact in their hybrids. Because of unique features of birds - female heterogamety, a highly conserved karyotype, and the slow evolution of reproductive incompatibilities - an understanding of regulatory evolution in birds is critical to a comprehensive understanding of regulatory evolution and its implications for speciation. Using a novel complement of analyses of replicated RNA-seq libraries, we demonstrate abundant divergence in gene expression between subspecies of zebra finches Taeniopygia guttata. By comparing parental populations and their F1 hybrids, we also show that gene misexpression is relatively rare, a pattern that may partially explain the slow buildup of postzygotic reproductive isolation observed in birds relative to other taxa. Although we expected that the action of genetic drift on the island-dwelling zebra finch subspecies would be manifested in a high rate of trans regulatory divergence, we found that most divergence was in cis regulation, following a pattern commonly observed in other taxa. Thus our study highlights both unique and shared features of avian regulatory evolution.', u'We evaluated the fraction of variation in HIV-1 set point viral load attributable to viral or human genetic factors by using joint host/pathogen genetic data from 541 HIV infected individuals. We show that viral genetic diversity explains 29% of the variation in viral load while host factors explain 8.4%. Using a joint model including both host and viral effects, we estimate a total of 30% heritability, indicating that most of the host effects are reflected in viral sequence variation.', u'Auto regulatory feedback loops occur in the regulation of molecules ranging from ATP to MAP kinases to zinc. Negative feedback loops can increase a system\u2032s robustness, while positive feedback loops can mediate transitions between cell states. Recent genome-wide experimental and computational studies predict hundreds of novel feedback loops. However, not all physical interactions are regulatory, and many experimental methods cannot detect self-interactions. Our understanding of regulatory feedback loops is therefore hampered by the lack of high-throughput methods to experimentally quantify the presence, strength, and temporal dynamics of auto regulatory feedback loops. Here we present a mathematical and experimental framework for high-throughput quantification of feedback regulation, and apply it to RNA binding proteins (RBPs) in yeast. Our method is able to determine the existence of both direct and indirect positive and negative feedback loops, and to quantify the strength of these loops. We experimentally validate our model using two RBPs which lack native feedback loops, and by the introduction of synthetic feedback loops. We find that the the RBP Puf3 does not natively participate in any direct or indirect feedback regulation, but that replacing the native 3\u2032UTR with that of COX17 generates an auto-regulatory negative feedback loop which reduces gene expression noise. Likewise, the RBP Pub1 does not natively participate in any feedback loops, but a synthetic positive feedback loop involving Pub1 results in increased expression noise. Our results demonstrate a synthetic experimental system for quantifying the existence and strength of feedback loops using a combination of high-throughput experiments and mathematical modeling. This system will be of great use in measuring auto-regulatory feedback by RNA binding proteins, a regulatory motif that is difficult to quantify using existing high-throughput methods.', u'We present an effective model All-Trans Retinoic Acid (ATRA)-induced differentiation of HL-60 cells. The model describes a key architectural feature of ATRA-induced differen- tiation, positive feedback between an ATRA-inducible signalsome complex involving many proteins including Vav1, a guanine nucleotide exchange factor, and the activation of the mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascade. The model, which was developed by integrating logical rules with kinetic model- ing, was significantly smaller than previous models. However, despite its simplicity, it captured key features of ATRA induced differentiation of HL-60 cells. We identified an ensemble of effec- tive model parameters using measurements taken from ATRA- induced HL-60 cells. Using these parameters, model analysis predicted that MAPK activation was bistable as a function of ATRA exposure. Conformational experiments supported ATRA- induced bistability. These findings, combined with other literature evidence, suggest that positive feedback is central to a diversity of cell fate programs.', u'Recently, a new Chlamydia-related organism, Protochlamydia naegleriophila KNic, was discovered within a Naegleria amoeba. To decipher the mechanisms at play in the modeling of genomes from the Protochlamydia genus, we sequenced de novo the full genome of Pr. naegleriophila combining the advantages of two second-generation sequencing technologies. The assembled complete genome comprises a 2,885,111 bp chromosome and a 145,285 bp megaplasmid. For the first time within the Chlamydiales order, a CRISPR system, the immune system of bacteria, was discovered on the chromosome. It is composed of a small CRISPR locus comprising eight repeats and the associated cas and cse genes of the subtype I-E. A CRISPR locus was also found within Chlamydia sp. Diamant, another Pr. naegleriophila strain whose genome was recently released, suggesting that the CRISPR system was acquired by a common ancestor of these two members of Pr. naegleriophila, after the divergence from Pr. amoebophila. The plasmid encodes an F-type conjugative system similar to that found in the Pam100G genomic island of Pr. amoebophila suggesting an acquisition of this conjugative system before the divergence of both Protochlamydia species and the integration of a putative Pr. amoebophila plasmid into its main chromosome giving rise to the Pam100G genomic island. Overall, this new Pr. naegleriophila genome sequence enables to investigate further the dynamic processes shaping the genomes of Chlamydia-related bacteria.', u"Inverse statistical approaches to determine protein structure and function from Multiple Sequence Alignments (MSA) are emerging as powerful tools in computational biology. However the underlying assumptions of the relationship between the inferred effective Potts Hamiltonian and real protein structure and energetics remain untested so far. Here we use lattice protein model (LP) to benchmark those inverse statistical approaches. We build MSA of highly stable sequences in target LP structures, and infer the effective pairwise Potts Hamiltonians from those MSA. We find that inferred Potts Hamiltonians reproduce many important aspects of `true' LP structures and energetics. Careful analysis reveals that effective pairwise couplings in inferred Potts Hamiltonians depend not only on the energetics of the native structure but also on competing folds; in particular, the coupling values reflect both positive design (stabilization of native conformation) and negative design (destabilization of competing folds). In addition to providing detailed structural information, the inferred Potts models used as protein Hamiltonian for design of new sequences are able to generate with high probability completely new sequences with the desired folds, which is not possible using independent-site models. Those are remarkable results as the effective LP Hamiltonians used to generate MSA are not simple pairwise models due to the competition between the folds. Our findings elucidate the reasons of the power of inverse approaches to the modelling of proteins from sequence data, and their limitations; we show, in particular, that their success crucially depend on the accurate inference of the Potts pairwise couplings.", u'Leishmania, a genus of parasites transmitted to human hosts and mammalian/reptilian reservoirs by an insect vector, is the causative agent of the human disease complex leishmaniasis. The evolutionary relationships within the genus Leishmania and its origins are the source of ongoing debate, reflected in conflicting phylogenetic and biogeographic reconstructions. This study employs a recently described bioinformatics method, SISRS, to identify over 200,000 informative sites across the genome from newly sequenced and publicly available Leishmania data. This dataset is used to reconstruct the evolutionary relationships of this genus. Additionally, we constructed a large multi-gene dataset; we used this dataset to reconstruct the phylogeny and estimate divergence dates for species. We conclude that the genus Leishmania evolved at least 90-100 million years ago. Our results support the hypothesis that Leishmania clades separated prior to, and during, the breakup of Gondwana. Additionally, we confirm that reptile-infecting Leishmania are derived from mammalian forms, and that the species that infect porcupines and sloths form a clade long separated from other species. We also firmly place the guinea-pig infecting species, L. enrietti, the globally dispersed L. siamensis, and the newly identified Australia species from kangaroos as sibling species whose distribution arises from the ancient connection between Australia, Antarctica, and South America.', u'Epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT) is an essential differentiation program during tissue morphogenesis and remodeling. EMT is induced by soluble transforming growth factor \u03b2 (TGF-\u03b2) family members, and restricted by vascular endothelial growth factor family members. While many downstream molecular regulators of EMT have been identified, these have been largely evaluated individually without considering potential crosstalk. In this study, we created an ensemble of dynamic mathematical models describing TGF-\u03b2 induced EMT to better understand the operational hierarchy of this complex molecular program. These models incorporate mass action kinetics within an ordinary differential equation (ODE) framework to describe the transcriptional and post-translational regulatory events driving EMT. Model parameters were estimated from multiple data sets using multiobjective optimization, in combination with cross-validation. TGF-\u03b2 exposure drove the model population toward a mesenchymal phenotype, while an epithelial phenotype was maintained following vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A) exposure. Simulations predicted that the transcription factors phosphorylated SP1 and NFAT were master regulators promoting or inhibiting EMT, respectively. Surprisingly, simulations also predicted that a cellular population could exhibit phenotypic heterogeneity (characterized by a significant fraction of the population with both high epithelial and mesenchymal marker expression) if treated simultaneously with TGF-\u03b2 and VEGF-A. We tested this prediction experimentally in both MCF10A and DLD1 cells and found that upwards of 45% of the cellular population acquired this hybrid state in the presence of both TGF-\u03b2 and VEGF-A. We experimentally validated the predicted NFAT/Sp1 signaling axis for each phenotype response. Lastly, we found that cells in the hybrid state had significantly different functional behavior when compared to VEGF-A or TGF-\u03b2 treatment alone. Together, these results establish a predictive mechanistic model of EMT susceptibility, and potentially reveal a novel signaling axis which regulates carcinoma progression through an EMT versus tubulogenesis response.', u'Somatic mutations are the driving force of cancer genome evolution. The rate of somatic mutations appears in great variability across the genome due to chromatin organization, DNA accessibility and replication timing. However, other variables that may influence the mutation rate locally, such as DNA-binding proteins, are unknown. Here we demonstrate that the rate of somatic mutations in melanoma tumors is highly increased at active Transcription Factor binding sites (TFBS) and nucleosome embedded DNA, compared to their flanking regions. Using recently available excision-repair sequencing (XR-seq) data, we show that the higher mutation rate at these sites is caused by a decrease of the levels of nucleotide excision repair (NER) activity. Therefore, our work demonstrates that DNA-bound proteins interfere with the NER machinery, which results in an increased rate of mutations at their binding sites. This finding has important implications in our understanding of mutational and DNA repair processes and in the identification of cancer driver mutations.', u'The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is the site of folding for membrane and secreted proteins. Accumulation of unfolded or misfolded proteins in the ER triggers the unfolded protein response (UPR). The UPR can promote survival by reducing the load of unfolded proteins through upregulation of chaperones and global attenuation of protein synthesis. However, when ER stress is acute or prolonged cells undergo apoptosis. In this study we sought to determine the effect of globally compromised microRNA biogenesis on the UPR and ER stress-induced apoptosis. Here we report the role of Dicer-dependent miRNA biogenesis during the UPR and ER stress-induced apoptosis. We show that ER stress-induced caspase activation and apoptosis is attenuated in Dicer deficient fibroblasts. ER stress-mediated induction of GRP78, the key ER resident chaperone, and also HERP, an important component of ER-associated degradation, are significantly increased in Dicer deficient cells. Expression of the BCL-2 family members BIM and MCL1 were significantly higher in Dicer-null fibroblasts. However, ER stress-mediated induction of pro-apoptotic BH3 only protein BIM was compromised in Dicer mutant cells.These observations demonstrate key roles for Dicer in the UPR and implicate miRNAs as critical components of UPR.', u"Large-scale sequencing of cDNA (RNA-seq) has been a boon to the quantitative analysis of transcriptomes. A notable application is the detection of changes in transcript usage between experimental conditions. For example, discovery of pathological alternative splicing may allow the development of new treatments or better management of patients. From an analysis perspective, there are several ways to approach RNA-seq data to unravel differential transcript usage, such as annotation-based exon-level counting, differential analysis of the `percent spliced in' measure or quantitative analysis of assembled transcripts. The goal of this research is to compare and contrast current state-of-the-art methods, as well as to suggest improvements to commonly used workflows.\n\nWe assess the performance of representative workflows using synthetic data and explore the effect of using non-standard counting bin definitions as input to a state-of-the-art inference engine (DEXSeq). Although the canonical counting provided the best results overall, several non-canonical approaches were as good or better in specific aspects and most counting approaches outperformed the evaluated event- and assembly-based methods. We show that an incomplete annotation catalog can have a detrimental effect on the ability to detect differential transcript usage in transcriptomes with few isoforms per gene and that isoform-level pre-filtering can considerably improve false discovery rate (FDR) control.\n\nCount-based methods generally perform well in detection of differential transcript usage. Controlling the FDR at the imposed threshold is difficult, mainly in complex organisms, but can be improved by pre-filtering of the annotation catalog.", u"INTRODUCTION: Ebbert et al. reported gene-gene interactions between rs11136000-rs670139 (CLU-MS4A4E) and\nrs3865444-rs670139 (CD33-MS4A4E). We evaluate these interactions in the largest dataset for an epistasis study.\nMETHODS: We tested interactions using 3837 cases and 4145 controls from ADGC using meta- and permutation analyses. We repeated meta-analyses stratified by APOE\u03f54 status, estimated combined OR and population attributable fraction (cPAF), and explored causal variants.\nRESULTS: Results support the CLU-MS4A4E interaction and a dominant effect. An association between CLU-MS4A4E and APOE\u03f54 negative status exists. The estimated synergy factor, OR, and cPAF for rs11136000-rs670139 are 2.23, 2.45 and 8.0, respectively. We identified potential causal variants.\nDISCUSSION: We replicated the CLU-MS4A4E interaction in a large case-control series, with APOE\u03f54 and possible dominant effect. The CLU-MS4A4E OR is higher than any Alzheimer's disease locus except APOE\u03f54, APP, and TREM2. We estimated an 8% decrease in Alzheimer's disease incidence without CLU-MS4A4E risk alleles and identified potential causal variants.", u'Potential time trends in relative humidity (RH) were investigated for the Kamloops climate station in a semi-arid region of south-central British Columbia, Canada, between 1990 and 2012. Mean monthly 6 am and 3 pm RH at Kamloops achieve annual minima during the March to September period with substantially higher early morning RH compared to the mid-afternoon period. Significant temporal declines in RH throughout the year are evident ranging from 1.5 to 5.7%/decade. No significantly increasing temporal trends in RH were found. The findings indicate that a continuation of declining trends in RH for the study area may increase the quantity of dust and other atmospheric particulate generation from both natural and anthropogenic sources, possibly resulting in additional threats to local and regional air quality, thereby necessitating inclusion in air quality management planning and modeling efforts.', u'The quantitative characterization of mutational landscapes is a task of outstanding importance in\nevolutionary and medical biology: It is, e.g., of central importance for our understanding of the phenotypic effect of mutations related to disease and antibiotic drug resistance. Here we develop a novel inference scheme for mutational landscapes, which is based on the statistical analysis of large alignments of homologs of the protein of interest. Our method is able to capture epistatic couplings between residues, and therefore to assess the dependence of mutational effects on the sequence context where they appear. Compared recent large-scale mutagenesis data of the beta-lactamase TEM-1, a protein providing resistance against to beta-lactam antibiotics, our method leads to an increase of about 40% in explicative power as compared to approaches neglecting epistasis. We find that the informative sequence context extends to residues at native distances of about 20 Angstrom from the mutated site, reaching thus far beyond residues in direct physical contact.', u'Purging through inbreeding occurs when consanguineous marriages increases the rate at which deleterious alleles are present in a homozygous state. In this study we carried out low-read depth (4-10x) whole-genome sequencing in 568 individuals from three Italian founder populations, and compared it to data from other Italian and European populations from the 1000 Genomes Project. We show extended consanguinity and depletion of homozygous genotypes at potentially detrimental sites in the founder populations compared to outbred populations. However these patterns are not compatible with the hypothesis of consanguinity driving the purging of highly deleterious mutations according to simulations. Therefore we conclude that genetic drift and the founder effect should be responsible for the observed purging of deleterious variants.', u'Use of low resolution single cell DNA FISH and population based high resolution chromosome conformation capture techniques have highlighted the importance of pairwise chromatin interactions in gene regulation. However, it is unlikely that these associations act in isolation of other interacting partners within the genome. Indeed, the influence of multi-loci interactions in gene control remains something of an enigma as beyond low-resolution DNA FISH we do not have the appropriate tools to analyze these. Here we present a method that uses standard 4C-seq data to identify multi-loci interactions from the same cell. We demonstrate the feasibility of our method using 4C-seq data sets that identify known pairwise interactions involving the Tcrb and Igk antigen receptor enhancers, in addition to novel tri-loci associations. We further show that enhancer deletions not only interfere with tri-loci interactions in which they participate, but they also disrupt pairwise interactions between other partner enhancers and this disruption is linked to a reduction in their transcriptional output. These findings underscore the functional importance of hubs and provide new insight into chromatin organization as a whole. Our method opens the door for studying multi-loci interactions and their impact on gene regulation in other biological settings.', u'The standard view of adaptation to larval crowding in fruitflies, built on results from 25 years of multiple experimental evolution studies on D. melanogaster, is that enhanced competitive ability evolves primarily through increased larval feeding and foraging rate, at the cost of efficiency of food conversion to biomass, and increased larval tolerance to nitrogenous wastes. These results, moreover, were at odds from the predictions of classical K-selection theory, notably the expectation that selection at high density should result in the increase of efficiency of conversion of food to biomass, and were better interpreted through the lens of alpha-selection. We show here that populations of D. ananassae and D. n. nasuta subjected to extreme larval crowding evolve greater competitive ability and pre-adult survivorship at high density primarily through a combination of reduced larval duration, faster attainment of minimum critical size for pupation, greater time efficiency of food conversion to biomass, increased pupation height with a relatively small role of increased urea/ammonia tolerance, if at all. This is a very different suite of traits than that seen to evolve under similar selection in D. melanogaster and seems to be closer to the expectations from the canonical theory of K-selection. We discuss possible reasons for these differences in results across the three species. Overall, the results reinforce the view that our understanding of the evolution of competitive ability in fruitflies needs to be more nuanced than before, with an appreciation that there may be multiple evolutionary routes through which higher competitive ability can be attained.', u'Expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) analysis relates genetic variation to gene expression, and it has been shown that power to detect eQTLs is substantially increased by adjustment for measures of expression variability derived from singular value decomposition-based procedures (referred to as expression factors, or EFs). A potential downside to this approach is that power will be reduced for eQTL that are correlated with one or more EFs, but these approaches are commonly used in human eQTL studies on the assumption that this risk is low for cis (i.e. local) eQTL associations.  Using two independent blood eQTL datasets, we show that this assumption is incorrect and that, in fact, 10-25% of eQTL that are significant without adjustment for EFs are no longer detected after EF adjustment. In addition, the majority of these lost eQTLs replicate in independent data, indicating that they are not spurious associations. Thus, in the ideal case, EFs would be re-estimated for each eQTL association test, as has been suggested by others; however, this is computationally infeasible for large datasets with densely imputed genotype data. We propose an alternative, buffet-style approach in which a series of EF and non-EF eQTL analyses are performed and significant eQTL discoveries are collected across these analyses. We demonstrate that standard methods to control the false discovery rate perform similarly between the single EF and buffet-style approaches, and we provide biological support for eQTL discovered by this approach in terms of immune cell-type specific enhancer enrichment in Roadmap Epigenomics and ENCODE cell lines.', u'Oral tongue squamous cell carcinomas (OTSCC) are a homogenous group of tumors characterized by aggressive behavior, early spread to lymph nodes and a higher rate of regional failure. Additionally, the incidence of OTSCC among younger population (<50yrs) is on a rise; many of who lack the typical associated risk factors of alcohol and/or tobacco exposure. We present data on SNVs, indels, regions with LOH, and CNVs from fifty-paired oral tongue primary tumors and link the significant somatic variants with clinical parameters, epidemiological factors including HPV infection and tumor recurrence. Apart from the frequent somatic variants harbored in TP53, CASP8, RASA1, NOTCH and CDKN2A genes, significant amplifications and/or deletions were detected in chromosomes 6-9, and 11 in the tumors. Variants in CASP8 and CDKN2A were mutually exclusive. CDKN2A, PIK3CA, RASA1 and DMD variants were exclusively linked to smoking, chewing, HPV infection and tumor stage. We also performed whole-genome gene expression study that identified matrix metalloproteases to be highly expressed in tumors and linked pathways involving arachidonic acid and NF-\u03ba-B to habits  and distant metastasis, respectively. Functional knockdown studies in cell lines demonstrated the role of CASP8 in HPV-negative OTSCC cell line. Finally, we identified a 38-gene minimal signature that predicts tumor recurrence using an ensemble machine learning method. Taken together, this study is unique in linking genetic signatures to various clinical and epidemiological factors in a homogeneous tumor population with a relatively high HPV prevalence.', u"The arrival of farming in Europe around 8,500 years ago necessitated adaptation to new environments, pathogens, diets, and social organizations. While indirect evidence of adaptation can be detected in patterns of genetic variation in present-day people, ancient DNA makes it possible to witness selection directly by analyzing samples from populations before, during and after adaptation events. Here we report the first genome-wide scan for selection using ancient DNA, capitalizing on the largest genome-wide dataset yet assembled: 230 West Eurasians dating to between 6500 and 1000 BCE, including 163 with newly reported data. The new samples include the first genome-wide data from the Anatolian Neolithic culture, who we show were members of the population that was the source of Europe's first farmers, and whose genetic material we extracted by focusing on the DNA-rich petrous bone. We identify genome-wide significant signatures of selection at loci associated with diet, pigmentation and immunity, and two independent episodes of selection on height.", u'The amount of nanoparticles (NPs) in human environment is increasing. The main sources are the increased introduction in consumer products and air pollution (diesel exhaust). It is meanwhile common knowledge that NPs behave differently as bulk material because of their nano-size. This leads in general to a higher reactivity and some other changed properties, e.g. solubility, surface potential, conductivity, and, to different effects on biological systems. The main impacts of NPs on a cellular and organism level are meanwhile well known: release of toxic ions, increased oxidative stress, and inflammation. Beside these, there is increasing evidence that NPs, especially in low dose/long exposure scenarios, affect biological systems in a broader way, interact with drugs, and exacerbate the effects of diseases. To investigate these effects systems biology approaches are the method of choice. This review summarizes the state of the art of nanoparticle effects on cells and organisms and demonstrate the add value of systems biology investigations to NP hazard assessment.', u"Phenotypic plasticity is an evolutionary driving force in diverse biological processes, including the adaptive immune system, the development of neoplasms, and the bacterial acquisition of drug resistance.  It is essential, therefore, to understand the evolutionary advantage of an allele that confers cells the ability to express a range of phenotypes. Of particular importance is to understand how this advantage of phenotypic plasticity depends on the degree of heritability of non-genetically encoded phenotypes between generations, which can induce irreversible evolutionary changes in the population. Here, we study the fate of a new mutation that allows the expression of multiple phenotypic states, introduced into a finite population otherwise composed of individuals who can express only a single phenotype.  We analyze the fixation probability of such an allele as a function of the strength of inter-generational phenotypic heritability, called memory, the variance of expressible phenotypes, the rate of environmental changes, and the population size.  We find that the fate of a phenotypically plastic allele depends fundamentally on the environmental regime.  In a constant environment, the fixation probability of a plastic allele always increases with the degree of phenotypic memory.  In periodically fluctuating environments, by contrast, there is an optimum phenotypic memory that maximizes the probability of the plastic allele's fixation.  This same optimum value of phenotypic memory also maximizes geometric mean fitness, in steady state. We interpret these results in the context of previous studies in an infinite-population framework. We also discuss the implications of our results for the design of therapies that can overcome resistance, in a variety of diseases.", u'Mat-aCGH is an application toolbox for analysis and visualization of microarray-comparative genomic hybridization (array-CGH or aCGH) data which is based on Matlab. Full process of aCGH analysis, from denoising of the raw data to the visualization of the desired results, can be obtained via Mat-aCGH straight-forwardly. The main advantage of this toolbox is that it is collection of recent well-known statistical and information theoretic methods and algorithms for analyzing aCGH data. More importantly, the proposed toolbox is developed for multisample analysis which is one of the current challenges in this area. Mat-aCGH is convenient to apply for any format of data, robust against diverse noise and provides the users with valuable information in the form of diagrams and metrics. Therefore, it eliminates the needs of another software or package for multisample aCGH analysis.', u'Cancers arise from genetic abberations but also consistently display high levels of intra-tumor heterogeneity and evolve according to Darwinian dynamics. This makes evolutionary game theory an ideal tool in which to mathematically capture these cell-cell interactions and in which to investigate how they impact evolutionary dynamics. In this chapter we present some examples of how evolutionary game theory can elucidate cancer evolution.', u'The chromatin interaction assays 5C and HiC have advanced our understanding of genomic spatial organization but analysis approaches for these data are limited by usability and flexibility. The HiFive tool suite provides efficient data handling and a variety of normalization approaches for easy, fast analysis and method comparison. Integration of MPI-based parallelization allows scalability and rapid processing time. In addition to single-command analysis of an entire experiment from mapped reads to interaction values, HiFive has been integrated into the open-source, web-based platform Galaxy to connect users with computational resources and a graphical interface. HiFive is open-source software available from http://taylorlab.org/software/hifive/ and https://github.com/bxlab/hifive.', u'Tuberculosis (TB) is a global public health emergency. Increasingly drug resistant strains of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M.tb) continue to emerge and spread, highlighting adaptability of this pathogen. Most studies of M.tb evolution have relied on \u2018between-host\u2019 samples, in which each person with TB is represented by a single M.tb isolate. However, individuals with TB commonly harbor populations of M.tb numbering in the billions. Here, we use analyses of M.tb diversity found within and between hosts to gain insight into influences shaping genetic diversity of this pathogen. We find that the amount of M.tb genetic diversity harbored by individuals with TB can vary dramatically, likely as a function of disease severity. Surprisingly, we did not find an appreciable impact of TB treatment on M.tb diversity. In examining genomic data from M.tb samples within and between hosts with TB, we find that genes involved in the regulation, synthesis, and transportation of immunomodulatory cell envelope lipids appear repeatedly in the extremes of various statistical measures of diversity. Many of these genes have been identified as possible targets of selection in other studies employing different methods and data sets. Taken together, these observations suggest that M.tb cell envelope lipids are targets of selection within hosts. Many of these lipids are specific to pathogenic mycobacteria and, in some cases, human-pathogenic mycobacteria. We speculate that rapid adaptation of cell envelope lipids is facilitated by functional redundancy, flexibility in their metabolism, and their roles mediating interactions with the host.', u'Many questions about human genetic history can be addressed by examining the patterns of shared genetic variation between sets of populations. A useful methodological framework for this purpose are F-statistics, that measure shared genetic drift between sets of two, three and four populations, and can be used to test simple and complex hypotheses about admixture between populations. Here, we put these statistics in context of phylogenetic and population genetic theory. We show how measures of genetic drift can be interpreted as branch lengths, paths through an admixture graph or in terms of the internal branches in coalescent trees. We show that the admixture tests can be interpreted as testing general properties of phylogenies, allowing us to generalize applications for arbitrary phylogenetic trees. Furthermore, we derive novel expressions for the F-statistics, which enables us to explore the behavior of F-statistic under population structure models. In particular, we show that population substructure may complicate inference.', u'Background. Large mega base-pair genomic regions show robust alterations in DNA methylation levels in multiple cancers, a vast majority of which are hypo-methylated in cancers. These regions are generally bounded by CpG islands, overlap with Lamin Associated Domains and Large organized chromatin lysine modifications, and are associated with stochastic variability in gene expression. Given the size and consistency of hypo-methylated blocks (HMB) across cancer types, their immediate causes are likely to be encoded in the genomic region near HMB boundaries, in terms of specific genomic or epigenomic signatures. However, a detailed characterization of the HMB boundaries has not been reported.\nMethod. Here, we focused on ~13k HMBs, encompassing approximately half the genome, identified in colon cancer. We analyzed a number of distinguishing features at the HMB boundaries including transcription factor (TF) binding motifs, various epigenomic marks, and chromatin structural features.\nResult.  We found that the classical promoter epigenomic mark, H3K4me3, is highly enriched at HMB boundaries, as are CTCF bound sites. HMB boundaries harbor distinct combinations of TF motifs. Our Random Forest model based on TF motifs can accurately distinguish boundaries not only from regions inside and outside HMBs, but surprisingly, from active promoters as well. Interestingly, the distinguishing TFs and their interacting proteins are involved in chromatin modification. Finally, HMB boundaries significantly coincide with the boundaries of Topologically Associating Domains of the chromatin. \nConclusion. Our analyses suggest that the overall architecture of HMBs is guided by pre-existing chromatin architecture, and are associated with aberrant activity of promoter-like sequences at the boundary.', u"Event Related Potentials (ERPs) are widely used in Brain-Computer Interface applications and in neuroscience.\nNormal EEG activity is rich in background noise and therefore, in order to detect ERPs, it is usually necessary to take the average from multiple trials to reduce the effects of this noise.\nThe noise produced by EEG activity itself is not correlated with the ERP waveform and so, by calculating the average, the noise is decreased by a factor inversely proportional to the square root of N, where N is the number of averaged epochs.\nThis is the easiest strategy currently used to detect ERPs, which is based on calculating the average of each ERPs waveform, these waveforms being time-and phase-locked.\nIn this paper a new method called GW6 is proposed, which calculates the ERP using a mathematical method based only on Pearson's Correlation.\nThis results in a graph with the same time resolution as the classical ERP and which contains only positive peaks representing the increase, in consonance to the stimuli, in EEG signal correlation over all channels.\nThis new method is also useful for selectively identifying and highlighting any hidden components of the ERP response that are not phase-locked, and that are usually hidden in the standard and simple method based on the averaging of all the epochs.\nThese hidden components seem to be caused by variations (between each successive stimulus) of the ERPs inherent phase latency period (jitter), although the same stimulus across all EEG channels produces a reasonably constant phase.\nFor this reason, this new method could be very helpful to investigate these hidden components of the ERP response and to develop applications for scientific and medical purposes.\nMoreover, this new method is more resistant to EEG artifacts than the standard calculations of the average.\nThe method we are proposing can be directly used in the form of a process written in the well known Matlab programming language and can be easily and quickly written in any other software language.", u'Complex gene expression patterns are mediated by binding of transcription factors (TF) to specific genomic loci. The in vivo occupancy of a TF is, in large part, determined by the TFs DNA binding interaction partners, motivating genomic context based models of TF occupancy. However, the approaches thus far have assumed a uniform binding model to explain genome wide bound sites for a TF in a cell-type and as such heterogeneity of TF occupancy models, and the extent to which binding rules underlying a TFs occupancy are shared across cell types, has not been investigated. Here, we develop an ensemble based approach (TRISECT) to identify heterogeneous binding rules of cell-type specific TF occupancy and analyze the inter-cell-type sharing of such rules. Comprehensive analysis of 23 TFs, each with ChIP-Seq data in 4-12 cell-types, shows that by explicitly capturing the heterogeneity of binding rules, TRISECT accurately identifies in vivo TF occupancy (93%) substantially improving upon previous methods. Importantly, many of the binding rules derived from individual cell-types are shared across cell-types and reveal distinct yet functionally coherent putative target genes in different cell-types. Closer inspection of the predicted cell-type-specific interaction partners provides insights into context-specific functional landscape of a TF. Together, our novel ensemble-based approach reveals, for the first time, a widespread heterogeneity of binding rules, comprising interaction partners within a cell-type, many of which nevertheless transcend cell-types. Notably, the putative targets of shared binding rules in different cell-types, while distinct, exhibit significant functional coherence.', u'The increased availability of both open ecological data, and software to interact with it, allows to rapidly collect and integrate data over large spatial and taxonomic scales. This offers the opportunity to address macroecological questions in a cost-effective way. In this contribution, we illustrate this approach by forecasting the structure of a stream food web at the global scale. In so doing, we highlight the most salient issues needing to be addressed before this approach can be used with a high degree of confidence.', u'Diffusion maps are a spectral method for non-linear dimension reduction and have recently been adapted for the visualization of single cell expression data. Here we present destiny, an efficient R implementation of the diffusion map algorithm. Our package includes a single-cell specific noise model allowing for missing and censored values. In contrast to previous implementations, we further present an efficient nearest-neighbour approximation that allows for the processing of hundreds of thousands of cells and a functionality for projecting new data on existing diffusion maps. We exemplarily apply destiny to a recent time-resolved mass cytometry dataset of cellular reprogramming.', u'The persistence and dynamics of populations largely depends on the way they are configured and integrated into space and the ensuing eco-evolutionary dynamics. We manipulated spatial and temporal variation in patch size in replicated experimental metapopulations of the herbivore mite Tetranychus urticae. Evolution over approximately 30 generations in the spatially and spatiotemporally variable metapopulations induced a significant divergence in life history traits, physiological endpoints and gene expression, but also a remarkable convergence relative to the stable reference patchy metapopulation in traits related to size and fecundity and in its transcriptional regulation. The observed evolutionary dynamics are tightly linked to demographic changes, more specifically frequent episodes of resource shortage, and increased the reproductive performance of mites on tomato, a challenging host plant. This points towards a general, adaptive stress response in stable spatial variable and spatiotemporal variable metapopulations that pre-adapts a herbivore arthropod to novel environmental stressors.', u"Standard models of molecular evolution cannot estimate absolute speciation times alone, and require external calibrations to do so. Because fossil calibration methods rely on the unreliable fossil record, most nodes in the tree of life are dated with poor accuracy. However, many major paleogeographical events are dated, and since biogeographic processes depend on paleogeographical conditions, biogeographic dating may be used as an alternative or complementary method to fossil dating. I demonstrate how a time-stratified biogeographic stochastic process may be used to estimate absolute divergence times by conditioning on dated paleogeographical events. Informed by the current paleogeographical literature, I construct an empirical dispersal graph using 25 areas and 26 epochs for the past 540 Ma of Earth's history. Simulations indicate biogeographic dating performs well so long as paleogeography imposes constraint on biogeographic character evolution. To gauge whether biogeographic dating may have any practical use, I analyze the well-studied turtle clade (Testudines) then assess how well biogeographic dating fares compared to heavily fossil-calibrated dating results as reported in the literature. Fossil-free biogeographic dating estimated the age of the most recent common ancestor of extant turtles to be approximately 201 Ma, which is consistent with fossil-based estimates. Accuracy improves further when including a root node fossil calibration. The described model, paleogeographical dispersal graph, and analysis scripts are available for use with RevBayes.", u'Individuals are different, but they can work together to perform adaptive collective behaviours. Despite emerging evidence that individual variation strongly affects group performance, it is less clear to what extent individual variation is modulated by participation in collective behaviour. We examined light avoidance (negative phototaxis) in the gregarious cockroach Blaberus discoidalis, in both solitary and group contexts. Cockroaches in groups exhibit idiosyncratic light-avoidance performance that persists across days, with some individual cockroaches avoiding a light stimulus 75% of the time, and others avoiding the light just above chance (i.e. ~50% of the time). These individual differences are robust to group composition. Surprisingly, these differences do not persist when individuals are tested in isolation, but return when testing is once again done with groups. During the solo testing phase cockroaches exhibited individually consistent light-avoidance tendencies, but these differences were uncorrelated with performance in any group context. Therefore, we have observed not only that individual variation affects group-level performance, but also that whether or not a task is performed collectively can have a significant, predictable effect on how an individual behaves. That individual behavioural variation is modulated by whether a task is performed collectively has major implications for understanding variation in behaviours that are facultatively social, and it is essential that ethologists consider social context when evaluating individual behavioural differences.', u'Cannabinoid expression is an important genetically determined feature of cannabis that presents clinical and legal implications for patients seeking cannabinoid specific therapies like Cannabidiol (CBD). Cannabinoid, terpenoid, and flavonoid marker assisted selection can accelerate breeding efforts by offering genetic tools to select for desired traits at an early stage in growth. To this end, multiple models for chemotype inheritance have been described suggesting a complex picture for chemical phenotype determination. Here we explore the potential role of copy number variation of THCA Synthase using phased single molecule sequencing and demonstrate that copy number and sequence variation of this gene is common and suggests a more nuanced view of chemotype prediction.', u'Genetic mapping studies of quantitative traits typically focus on detecting loci that contribute additively to trait variation.  Genetic interactions are often proposed as a contributing factor to trait variation, but the relative contribution of interactions to trait variation is a subject of debate. Here, we use a very large cross between two yeast strains to accurately estimate the fraction of phenotypic variance due to pairwise QTL-QTL interactions for 20 quantitative traits. We find that this fraction is 9% on average, substantially less than the contribution of additive QTL (43%). Statistically significant QTL-QTL pairs typically have small individual effect sizes, but collectively explain 40% of the pairwise interaction variance. We show that pairwise interaction variance is largely explained by pairs of loci at least one of which has a significant additive effect. These results refine our understanding of the genetic architecture of quantitative traits and help guide future mapping studies.', u"Alu insertions have contributed to >11% of the human genome and ~30-35 Alu subfamilies remain actively mobile, yet the characterization of polymorphic Alu insertions from short-read data remains a challenge. We build on existing computational methods to combine Alu detection and de novo assembly of WGS data as a means to reconstruct the full sequence of insertion events from Illumina paired end reads. Comparison with published calls obtained using PacBio long-reads indicates a false discovery rate below 5%, at the cost of reduced sensitivity due to the colocation of reference and non-reference repeats. We generate a highly accurate call set of 1,614 completely assembled Alu variants from 53 samples from the Human Genome Diversity Project panel. We utilize the reconstructed alternative insertion haplotypes to genotype 1,010 fully assembled insertions, obtaining >99% agreement with genotypes obtained by PCR. In our assembled sequences, we find evidence of premature insertion mechanisms and observe 5' truncation in 16% of AluYa5 and AluYb8 insertions. The sites of truncation coincide with stem-loop structures and SRP9/14 binding sites in the Alu RNA, implicating L1 ORF2p pausing in the generation of 5' truncations. Additionally, we identified variable AluJ and AluS elements that likely arose due to non-retrotransposition mechanisms.", u'The process of migration stems from an adaptation of climatic seasonality and animals have developed various strategies to complete the journey between a wintering and breeding ground. Understanding the migratory behavior and determining when and where mortality occurs during the annual cycle is fundamental to understand population dynamics and implement appropriate conservation measures. Based on a big data set and advanced statistical methods, we inspected the phenology of migration of a polygynous land bird, the Macqueen s bustard, Chlamydotis macqueenii. We explored its migration strategies between sex, age, season and geographical origin. We show that departure for migration depended on age in the fall with juveniles being the first to leave and on age and sex in the spring with juveniles departing later and males induced to arrive early in spring to secure high-quality territories. Birds breeding at higher latitudes were the first to leave in the fall and more likely to perform longer stopovers. Bustards exhibited different strategies for spring and fall migrations: spring migration was significantly longer than fall migration with more but shorter stopovers. Survival was lower for juveniles experiencing their first migration and for all birds during fall migration and on their wintering ground. Experience linked to social hierarchical pressures and environmental conditions might be the key drivers of migration strategies and survival in long-distance polygynous migrants.', u'Motivation\n\nThe T cell receptors are expressed as millions of different rearrangements. Amplified as a complex mixture of PCR products, they can be sequenced directly on next-generation instruments without the need for cloning. This method is increasingly used to characterize, quantify and study these highly diverse receptors.\n\nResults\n\nWe present here clonotypeR, a software package to identify and analyze antigen receptors from high-throughput sequence libraries. ClonotypeR is designed to process, organize and analyze very large numbers of sequences, in the order of millions, typically produced by Roche 454 or Illumina instruments, and is made of two parts. The first contains shell scripts and reference segment sequences to produce a data file where each line represents a the detection of a clonotype in a sequence read. The second part is a R module available from Bioconductor, to load and filter the data, and prepare clonotype abundance tables ready for analysis with third-party tools for differential representation analysis, sample clustering, etc. To analyze clonotype data at the nucleotide level, we introduce unique clonotype identifiers based on those developed by Yassai et al. (2009), that we corrected to avoid identifier collisions.\n\nAvailability\n\nhttp://clonotyper.branchable.com (CC0 license).', u'Polymorphic chromosomal rearrangements, which can bind together hundreds of genes into single genetic loci with diverse effects, are increasingly associated with local adaptation and speciation. They may also be an important component of genetic variation within populations. We genetically and phenotypically characterized a novel segregating inversion (inv6) in the Iron Mountain (IM) population of Mimulus guttatus (yellow monkeyflower). We first identified a region of recombination suppression in three F2 mapping populations resulting from crosses among IM plants; in each case, the F1 hybrid parent was heterozygous for a homogenous derived haplotype (inv6) across markers spanning over 4.2 Mb of Linkage Group 6. Genotype-phenotype associations in the three F2 populations demonstrated negative inv6 effects on male and female fitness components.  In addition, inv6 carriers suffered a ~30% loss of pollen viability in the field. Despite these costs, inv6 exists at moderate and apparently stable frequency (~7%) in the natural population, suggesting counter-balancing fitness benefits that maintain the polymorphism. Across four years of monitoring in the field, inv6 had an overall significant positive effect on the seed production (lifetime female fitness) of carriers. This benefit was particularly strong in harsh years and may be mediated (in part) by strong positive inv6 effects on flower production. These data suggest that opposing fitness effects maintain an intermediate frequency, and as a consequence, inv6 generates inbreeding depression and high genetic variance. We discuss these findings in the context of theory about the genetic basis of inbreeding depression and the role for chromosomal rearrangements in population divergence with gene flow.', u'Understanding the causes of within- and among-population differences in vital rates, life histories, and population dynamics is a central topic in ecology. To understand how within- and among-population variation emerges, we need long-term studies that include episodic events and contrasting environmental conditions, data to characterize individual and shared variation, and statistical models that can tease apart population-, shared-, and individual contribution to the observed variation.\nWe used long-term tag-recapture data and novel statistical and modeling techniques to investigate and estimate within- and among-population differences in vital rates, life histories and population dynamics of marble trout Salmo marmoratus, a endemic freshwater salmonid with a narrow range. Only ten populations of pure marble trout persist in headwaters of Alpine rivers in western Slovenia. Marble trout populations are also threatened by floods and landslides, which have caused the extinction of two populations in recent years. We estimated and determined causes of variation in growth, survival, and recruitment both within and among populations, and evaluated trade-offs between them. Specifically, we estimated the responses of these traits to variation in water temperature, density, sex, early life conditions, and the occurrence of extreme climatic events (e.g., flash floods and debris flows). \nWe found that the effects of population density on traits were mostly limited to the early stages of life and that individual growth trajectories were established early in life. We found no clear effects of water temperature on survival and recruitment. Population density varied over time, with flash floods and debris flows causing massive mortalities and threatening population persistence. Apart from flood events, variation in population density within streams was largely determined by variation in recruitment, with survival of older fish being relatively constant over time within populations, but substantially different among populations. Marble trout show a fast to slow continuum of life histories, with slow growth associated with higher survival at the population level, possibly determined by food conditions and age at maturity.\nOur work provides unprecedented insight into the causes of variation in vital rates, life histories, and population dynamics in an endemic species that is teetering on the edge of extinction.', u'Selective breeding of dogs has resulted in repeated artificial selection on breed-specific morphological phenotypes. A number of quantitative trait loci associated with these phenotypes have been identified in genetic mapping studies. We analyzed the population genomic signatures observed around the causal mutations for 12 of these loci in 25 dog breeds, for which we genotyped 25 individuals in each breed. By measuring the population frequencies of the causal mutations in each breed, we identified those breeds in which specific mutations most likely experienced positive selection. These instances were then used as positive controls for assessing the performance of popular statistics to detect selection from population genomic data. We found that artificial selection during dog domestication has left characteristic signatures in the haplotype and nucleotide polymorphism patterns around selected loci that can be detected in the genotype data from a single population sample. However, the sensitivity and accuracy at which such signatures were detected varied widely between loci, the particular statistic used, and the choice of analysis parameters. We observed examples of both hard and soft selective sweeps and detected strong selective events that removed genetic diversity almost entirely over regions >10 Mbp. Our study demonstrates the power and limitations of selection scans in populations with high levels of linkage disequilibrium due to severe founder effects and recent population bottlenecks.', u'The stingless bee Tetragonisca angustula Latreille 1811 is one of the most widespread bee species in the Neotropics, distributed from Mexico to Argentina. However, this wide distribution contrasts with the low distance that females travel to build new nests whereas nothing is known about male dispersion. Previous studies of T. angustula were ambiguous concerning its genetic structure and were based only on nuclear markers and on small and/or limited sample size. Here we evaluate the genetic structure of several populations of T. angustula by using mitochondrial DNA and microsatellites. These markers can help us to detect differences in the migratory behavior between males and females. Our results showed that the populations were highly differentiated suggesting that both females and males are low dispersers. Therefore, its continental distribution might consist of several different taxa.', u'There is a gradual change towards explicitly considering landscapes in regulatory risk assessment. To realise the objective of developing representative scenarios for risk assessment it is necessary to know how detailed a landscape representation is needed to generate a realistic risk assessment, and indeed how to generate such landscapes. This paper evaluates the contribution of landscape and farming components to a model based risk assessment of a fictitious endocrine disruptor on hares. In addition, we present methods and code examples for generation of landscape structures and farming simulation from data collected primarily for EU agricultural subsidy support and GIS map data.\nTen different Danish landscapes were generated and the ERA carried out for each landscape using two different assumed toxicities. The results showed negative impacts in all cases, but the extent and form in terms of impacts on abundance or occupancy differed greatly between landscapes.  A meta-model was created, predicting impact from landscape and farming characteristics. Scenarios based on all combinations of farming and landscape for five landscapes representing extreme and middle impacts were created. The meta-models developed from the 10 real landscapes failed to predict impacts for these 25 scenarios. Landscape, farming, and the emergent density of hares all influenced the results of the risk assessment considerably.\nThe study indicates that prediction of a reasonable worst case scenario is difficult from structural, farming or population metrics; rather the emergent properties generated from interactions between landscape, management and ecology are needed. Meta-modelling may also fail to predict impacts, even when restricting inputs to combinations of those used to create the model. Future ERA may therefore need to make use of multiple scenarios representing a wide range of conditions to avoid locally unacceptable risks. This approach could now be feasible Europe wide given the landscape generation methods presented.', u'We explored the dynamics of microbial contributions to decomposition in soil by coupling DNA Stable Isotope Probing (SIP) and high throughput DNA sequencing. Our experiment evaluated the degradative succession hypothesis, described dynamics of carbon (C) metabolism during organic matter degradation, and characterized bacteria that metabolize labile and structural C in soils. We added a complex amendment representing plant derived organic matter to soil substituting 13C-xylose or 13C-cellulose for unlabeled equivalents in two experimental treatments which were monitored for 30 days. Xylose and cellulose are abundant components in plant biomass and represent labile and structural C pools, respectively. We characterized 5,940 SSU rRNA gene operational taxonomic units (OTUs) finding evidence for 13C-incorporation into DNA from 13C-xylose and 13C-cellulose in 49 and 63 OTUs, respectively. In the 13C-xylose treatment the types of microorganisms that incorporated 13C into DNA changed over time dominated by Firmicutes at day 1 followed by Bacteroidetes at day 3 and then Actinobacteria at day 7. These dynamics of 13C-labeling suggest labile C traveled through different trophic levels within the soil bacterial community. The microorganisms that metabolized cellulose-C increased in relative abundance over the course of the experiment with the highest number of OTUs exhibiting evidence for 13C-assimilation after 14 days. Microbes that metabolized cellulose-C belonged to cosmopolitan soil lineages that remain uncharacterized including Spartobacteria, Chloroflexi, and Planctomycetes. Using an approach that reveals the C assimilation dynamics of specific microbial lineages we describe the ecological properties of functionally defined microbial groups that contribute to decomposition in soil.', u'This reports the results of an attempt by Haruko Obokata to replicate the phenomenon of stimulus-triggered acquisition of pluripotency (STAP), which was first reported in a pair of papers authored by Obokata and colleagues in 2014. The most conclusive evidence for the pluripotency of so-called STAP cells was their purported ability to contribute to chimera formation. In the follow-up trial presented here, putative STAP cells prepared by Obokata were injected into 1154 embryos, of which 671 were recovered. However, the injected cells made no significant contribution in any tissue in any of the embryos developed.', u'Models of the evolution of collective action typically assume that interactions occur in groups of identical size. In contrast, social interactions between animals occur in groups of widely dispersed size.\nThis article models collective action problems as two-strategy multiplayer games and studies the effect of variability in group size on the evolution of cooperative behavior under the replicator dynamics. The analysis identifies elementary conditions on the payoff structure of the game implying that the evolution of cooperative behavior is promoted or inhibited when the group size experienced by a focal player is more or less variable. Similar but more stringent conditions are applicable when the confounding effect of size-biased sampling, which causes the group-size distribution experienced by a focal player to differ from the statistical distribution of group sizes, is taken into account.', u"The human gut microbiota is impacted by host nutrition and health status and therefore represents a potentially adaptive phenotype influenced by metabolic and immune constraints. Previous studies contrasting rural populations in developing countries to urban industrialized ones have shown that industrialization is strongly correlated with patterns in human gut microbiota; however, we know little about the relative contribution of factors such as climate, diet, medicine, hygiene practices, host genetics, and parasitism. Here, we focus on fine-scale comparisons of African rural populations in order to (i) contrast the gut microbiota of populations inhabiting similar environments but having different traditional subsistence modes and either shared or distinct genetic ancestry, and (ii) examine the relationship between gut parasites and bacterial communities. Characterizing the fecal microbiota of Pygmy hunter-gatherers as well as Bantu individuals from both farming and fishing populations in Southwest Cameroon, we found that the gut parasite Entamoeba is significantly correlated with microbiome composition and diversity. We show that across populations, colonization by this protozoa can be predicted with 79% accuracy based on the composition of an individual's gut microbiota, and that several of the taxa most important for distinguishing Entamoeba absence or presence are signature taxa for autoimmune disorders. We also found gut communities to vary significantly with subsistence mode, notably with some taxa previously shown to be enriched in other hunter-gatherers groups (in Tanzania and Peru) also discriminating hunter-gatherers from neighboring farming or fishing populations in Cameroon.", u'Quantitative systems pharmacology models mechanistically describe a biological system and the effect of drug treatment on system behavior. Because these models rarely are identifiable from the available data, the uncertainty in physiological parameters may be sampled to create alternative parameterizations of the model, sometimes termed "Virtual Patients". In order to reproduce the statistics of a clinical population, Virtual Patients are often weighted to form a Virtual Population that reflects the baseline characteristics of the clinical cohort. Here we introduce a novel technique to efficiently generate Virtual Patients and, from this ensemble, demonstrate how to select a Virtual Population that matches the observed data without the need for weighting. This approach improves confidence in model predictions by mitigating the risk that spurious Virtual Patients become over-represented in Virtual Populations.', u'Extensive efforts have been made to understand genomic function through both experimental and computational approaches, yet proper annotation still remains challenging, especially in non-coding regions. In this manuscript, we introduce GenoSkyline, an unsupervised learning framework to predict tissue-specific functional regions through integrating high-throughput epigenetic annotations. GenoSkyline successfully identified a variety of non-coding regulatory machinery including enhancers, regulatory miRNA, and hypomethylated transposable elements in extensive case studies. Integrative analysis of GenoSkyline annotations and results from genome-wide association studies (GWAS) led to novel biological insights on the etiologies of a number of human complex traits. We also explored using tissue-specific functional annotations to prioritize GWAS signals and predict relevant tissue types for each risk locus. Brain and blood-specific annotations led to better prioritization performance for schizophrenia than standard GWAS p-values and non-tissue-specific annotations. As for coronary artery disease, heart-specific functional regions was highly enriched of GWAS signals, but previously identified risk loci were found to be most functional in other tissues, suggesting a substantial proportion of still undetected heart-related loci. In summary, GenoSkyline annotations can guide genetic studies at multiple resolutions and provide valuable insights in understanding complex diseases. GenoSkyline is available at http://genocanyon.med.yale.edu/GenoSkyline.', u'Horizontal Gene Transfer (HGT) in eukaryotic plastids and mitochondrial genomes is frequently observed, and plays an important role in organism evolution. In yeasts, recent mitochondrial HGT has been suggested between S. cerevisiae and S. paradoxus. However, few strains have been explored due to the lack of accurate mitochondrial genome annotations. Mitochondrial genome sequences are important to understand how frequent these introgressions occur and their role in cytonuclear incompatibilities. In fact, most of the Bateson-Dobzhansky-Muller genetic incompatibilities described in yeasts are driven by these cytonuclear incompatibilities. In this study, we have explored the mitochondrial inheritance of several worldwide distributed Saccharomyces species isolated from different sources and geographic origins. We demonstrated the existence of recombination hotspots in the mitochondrial region COX2-ORF1, likely mediated by the transfer of two different types of ORF1, encoding a free-standing homing endonuclease, or facilitated by AT tandem repeats and GC clusters. These introgressions were shown to occur both at intra- and interspecific levels. Based on our results we proposed a model which involve several ancestral hybridization events among Saccharomyces strains in wild environments.', u'It has been shown that resting state brain dynamics can be characterized by looking at sparse blood-oxygen-level dependent (BOLD) events, which can be retrieved by point process analysis. Cardiac activity can also induce changes in the BOLD signal, thus affect both the number of these events and the mapping between neural events and BOLD signal, namely the hemodynamic response. To isolate neural activity and autonomic effects, we compare the resting state hemodynamic response retrieved by means of a point process analysis with and without deconvolving the cardiac fluctuations. Brainstem and the surrounding cortical area (such as precuneus, insula etc.) are found to be significantly affected by cardiac pulses. Methodological and physiological implications are then discussed.', u'Non-protein-coding RNAs are ubiquitous in cell physiology, with a diverse repertoire of known functions. In fact, the majority of the eukaryotic genome does not code for proteins, and thousands of conserved long non-protein-coding RNAs of currently unkown function have been identified. When available, knowledge of their 3D structure is very helpful in elucidating the function of these RNAs. However, despite some outstanding structure elucidation of RNAs using X-ray crystallography, NMR and cryoEM, learning RNA 3D structures remains low-throughput. RNA structure prediction in silico is a promising alternative approach and works well for double-helical stems, but full 3D structure determination requires tertiary contacts outside of secondary structures that are difficult to infer from sequence information. Here, based only on information from RNA multiple sequence alignments, we use a global statistical sequence probability model of co-variation in a pairs of nucleotide positions to detect 3D contacts, in analogy to recently developed breakthrough methods for computational protein folding. In blinded tests on 22 known RNA structures ranging in size from 65 to 1800 nucleotides, the predicted contacts matched physical nucleotide interactions with 65-95% true positive prediction accuracy. Importantly, we infer many long-range tertiary contacts, including non-Watson-Crick interactions, where secondary structure elements assemble in 3D. When used as restraints in molecular dynamics simulations, the inferred contacts improve RNA 3D structure prediction to a coordinate error as low as 6 to 10 angstrom rmsd deviation in atom positions, with potential for further refinement by molecular dynamics. These contacts include functionally important interactions, such as those that distinguish the active and inactive conformations of four riboswitches. In blind prediction mode, we present evolutionary couplings suitable for folding simulations for 180 RNAs of unknown structure, available at https://marks.hms.harvard.edu/ev_rna/. We anticipate that this approach can help shed light on the structure and function of non-protein-coding RNAs as well as 3D-structured mRNAs.', u'Gonorrhea is a sexually transmitted infection caused by the Gram-negative bacterium Neisseria gonorrhoeae. Resistance to first-line empirical monotherapy has emerged, so robust methods are needed to appropriately evaluate the activity of existing and novel antimicrobials against the bacterium. Pharmacodynamic functions, which describe the relationship between the concentration of antimicrobials and the bacterial net growth rate, provide more detailed information than the MIC only. In this study, a novel standardized in vitro time-kill curve assay was developed. The assay was validated using five World Health Organization N. gonorrhoeae reference strains and various concentrations of ciprofloxacin, and then the activity of nine antimicrobials with different target mechanisms were examined against a highly susceptible clinical wild type isolate (cultured in 1964). From the time-kill curves, the bacterial net growth rates at each antimicrobial concentration were estimated. Finally, a pharmacodynamic function was fitted to the data, resulting in four parameters that describe the pharmacodynamic properties of each antimicrobial. Ciprofloxacin resistance determinants shifted the pharmacodynamic MIC (zMIC) and attenuated the bactericidal effect at antimicrobial concentrations above the zMIC. Ciprofloxacin, spectinomycin and gentamicin had the strongest bactericidal effect during the first six hours of the assay. Only tetracycline and chloramphenicol showed a purely bacteriostatic effect. The pharmacodynamic functions differed between antimicrobials, showing that the effect of the drugs at concentrations below and above the MIC vary widely. In conclusion, N. gonorrhoeae time-kill curve experiments analyzed with pharmacodynamic functions have potential for in vitro evaluation of new and existing antimicrobials and dosing strategies to treat gonorrhea.', u"The evolutionary nature of cancer relates directly to a renewed focus on the voluminous NGS (next generation sequencing) data, aiming at the identification of explanatory models of how the (epi)genomic events are choreographed in cancer initiation and development. However, despite the increasing availability of multiple additional -omics data, this quest has been frustrated by various theoretical and technical hurdles, mostly related to the dramatic heterogeneity and temporality of the disease. In this paper, we build on our recent works on selectivity relation among driver mutations in cancer progression and investigate their applicability to the modeling problem - both at the population and individual levels. On one hand, we devise an optimal, versatile and modular pipeline to extract ensemble-level progression models from cross sectional sequenced cancer genomes. The pipeline combines state-of-the-art techniques for sample stratification, driver selection, identification of fitness-equivalent exclusive alterations and progression model inference. We demonstrate this pipeline's ability to reproduce much of the current knowledge on colorectal cancer progression, as well as to suggest novel experimentally verifiable hypotheses. On the other hand, we prove that our framework can be applied, mutatis mutandis, in reconstructing the evolutionary history of cancer clones in single patients, as illustrated by an example with multiple biopsy data from clear cell renal carcinomas.", u'Characterization of genetic variations in maize has been challenging, mainly due to deterioration of collinearity between individual genomes in the species and the fact the B73 genome used as the reference only represents a fraction of all haplotypes. An international consortium of maize research groups combined resources to develop the maize haplotype version 3 (HapMap3), built from whole genome sequencing data from 916 maize lines, covering pre-domestication and domesticated Zea mays varieties across the world. A new computational pipeline was set up to process over 7 trillion bp of sequencing data, and a set of population genetics filters were applied to identify over 60 million variant sites in regions where collinearity is largely preserved in the maize species.', u'Most proteins show changes in level across growth conditions. Many of these changes seem to be coordinated with the specific growth rate rather than the growth environment or the protein function. Although cellular growth rates, gene expression levels and gene regulation have been at the center of biological research for decades, there are only a few models giving a base line prediction of the dependence of the proteome fraction occupied by a gene with the specific growth rate.\n\nWe present a simple model that predicts a widely coordinated increase in the fraction of many proteins out of the proteome, proportionally with the growth rate. The model reveals how passive redistribution of resources, due to active regulation of only a few proteins, can have proteome wide effects that are quantitatively predictable. Our model provides a potential explanation for why and how such a coordinated response of a large fraction of the proteome to the specific growth rate arises under different environmental conditions. The simplicity of our model can also be useful by serving as a baseline null hypothesis in the search for active regulation. We exemplify the usage of the model by analyzing the relationship between growth rate and proteome composition for the model microorganism E.coli as reflected in two recent proteomics data sets spanning various growth conditions. We find that the fraction out of the proteome of a large number of proteins, and from different cellular processes, increases proportionally with the growth rate. Notably, ribosomal proteins, which have been previously reported to increase in fraction with growth rate, are only a small part of this group of proteins. We suggest that, although the fractions of many proteins change with the growth rate, such changes could be part of a global effect, not requiring specific cellular control mechanisms.', u'The relationship between enzyme-catalysed reactions and the Enzyme Commission (EC) number, the widely accepted classification scheme used to characterise enzyme activity, is complex and with the rapid increase in our knowledge of the reactions catalysed by enzymes needs revisiting. We present a manual and computational analysis to investigate this complexity and found that almost one-third of all known EC numbers are linked to more than one reaction in the secondary reaction databases (e.g. KEGG). Although this complexity is often resolved by defining generic, alternative and partial reactions, we have also found individual EC numbers with more than one reaction catalysing different types of bond changes. This analysis adds a new dimension to our understanding of enzyme function and might be useful for the accurate annotation of the function of enzymes and to study the changes in enzyme function during evolution.', u'Papua New Guinea is one of the most valuable tropical regions but ecological research of its freshwater invertebrates has been lacking. The goal of this paper is to evaluate the species richness, diversity and structure of aquatic insect assemblages in different habitats in the Wanang River catchment in a well-preserved lowland rainforest. Assemblage structure was studied on two spatial scales - in different habitats (river, streams and stagnant pools) and in three mesohabitats in the river (slow and fast sections and submerged wood). The results show that headwater streams had the highest morphospecies diversity, while the river had the highest insect abundance. Slow and fast sections of the river differed both in terms of insect abundance and diversity. Furthermore, a number of unique wood-associated species was found on submerged wood. The most notable feature of the assemblage structure was scarcity of shredders and dominance of predators. However, predatory beetles, bugs and dragonfly larvae exhibited contrasting habitat preferences. This study shows that Papua New Guinean lowland rainforests host diverse and distinctly structured freshwater insect assemblages.', u'Despite large-scale efforts to systematically map the cancer genome, little is known about how the interplay of genetic and epigenetic alternations shapes the architecture of the transcriptome of human cancer. With the goal of constructing a system-level view of the deregulated pathways in cancer cells, we systematically investigated the functional organization of the transcriptomes of 10 tumor types using data sets generated by The Cancer Genome Atlas project (TCGA). Our analysis indicates that the human cancer transcriptome is organized into well-conserved modules of co-expressed genes. In particular, our analysis identified a set of conserved gene modules with distinct cancer hallmark themes involving cell cycle regulation, angiogenesis, innate and adaptive immune response, differentiation, metabolism and regulation of protein phosphorylation. Our analysis provided global views of convergent transcriptome architecture of human cancer. The result of our analysis can serve as a foundation to link diverse genomic alternations to common transcriptomic features in human cancer.', u'There is growing use of ontologies for the measurement of cross-species phenotype similarity. Such similarity measurements contribute to diverse applications, such as identifying genetic models for human diseases, transferring knowledge among model organisms, and studying the genetic basis of evolutionary innovations. Two organismal features, whether genes, anatomical parts, or any other inherited feature, are considered to be homologous when they are evolutionarily derived from a single feature in a common ancestor. A classic example is the homology between the paired fins of fishes and vertebrate limbs. Anatomical ontologies that model the structural relations among parts may fail to include some known anatomical homologies unless they are deliberately added as separate axioms. The consequences of neglecting known homologies for applications that rely on such ontologies has not been well studied. Here, we examine how semantic similarity is affected when external homology knowledge is included. We measure phenotypic similarity between orthologous and non-orthologous gene pairs between humans and either mouse or zebrafish, and compare the inclusion of real with faux homology axioms. Semantic similarity was preferentially increased for orthologs when using real homology axioms, but only in the more divergent of the two species comparisons (human to zebrafish, not human to mouse), and the relative increase was less than 1% to non-orthologs. By contrast, inclusion of both real and faux random homology axioms preferentially increased similarities between genes that were initially more dissimilar in the other comparisons. Biologically meaningful increases in semantic similarity were seen for a select subset of gene pairs. Overall, the effect of including homology axioms on cross-species semantic similarity was modest at the levels of divergence examined here, but our results hint that it may be greater for more distant species comparisons.', u'Intracellular transcriptional regulators and extracellular signaling pathways together regulate the allocation of cell fates during development, but how their molecular activities are integrated to establish the correct proportions of cells with particular fates is not known. Here we study this question in the context of the decision between the epiblast (Epi) and the primitive endoderm (PrE) fate that occurs in the mammalian preimplantation embryo. Using an embryonic stem (ES) cell model, we discover two successive functions of FGF/MAPK signaling in this decision. First, the pathway needs to be inhibited to make the PrE-like gene expression program accessible for activation by GATA transcription factors in ES cells. In a second step, MAPK signaling levels determine the threshold concentration of GATA factors required for PrE-like differentiation, and thereby control the proportion of cells differentiating along this lineage. Our findings can be explained by a simple mutual repression circuit modulated by FGF/MAPK signaling. This may be a general network architecture to integrate the activity of signal transduction pathways and transcriptional regulators, and serve to balance proportions of cell fates in several contexts.', u'The outcome of a major evolutionary transition is the aggregation of independent entities into a new synergetic level of organisation. Classical models involve either pairwise interactions between individuals or a linear superposition of these interactions. However, major evolutionary transitions display synergetic effects: their outcome is not just the sum of its parts. Multiplayer games can display such synergies, as their payoff can be different from the sum of any collection of two-player interactions. Assuming that all interactions start from pairs, how can synergetic multiplayer games emerge from simpler pairwise interaction? Here, we present a mathematical model that captures the transition from pairwise interactions to synergetic multiplayer ones. We assume that different social groups have different breaking rates. We show that non-uniform breaking rates do foster the emergence of synergy, even though individuals always interact in pairs. Our work sheds new light on the mechanisms underlying a major evolutionary transition.', u'While most ectotherms thermotax only to regulate their temperature, female mosquitoes are attracted to human body heat during pursuit of a blood meal. Here we elucidate the basic rules of Aedes aegypti thermotaxis and test the function of candidate thermoreceptors in this important behavior. We show that host-seeking mosquitoes are maximally attracted to thermal stimuli approximating host body temperatures, seeking relative warmth while avoiding both relative cooling and stimuli exceeding host body temperature. We found that the cation channel TRPA1, in addition to playing a conserved role in thermoregulation and chemosensation, is required for this specialized host-selective thermotaxis in mosquitoes. During host-seeking, AaegTRPA1-/- mutants failed to avoid stimuli exceeding host temperature, and were unable to discriminate between host-temperature and high-temperature stimuli. TRPA1-dependent tuning of thermotaxis is likely critical for mosquitoes host-seeking in a complex thermal environment in which humans are warmer than ambient air, but cooler than surrounding sun-warmed surfaces.', u'Capra hircus, an economically important livestock, plays an indispensable role in the world animal fiber industry. To identify additional genes that may play important roles in coat color regulation, Illumina/Solexa high throughput sequencing technology was used to catalog the global gene expression profiles in the skin of three different coat colors goat (Lubei white goat (white), Jining gray goat (gray) and Jianyang big ear goat (brown)). The RNA-Seq analysis generated 83174342, 70222592 and 52091212 clean reads in white skin, gray skin and brown skin, respectively, which provided abundant data for further analysis. A total of 91 genes were differentially expressed between the gray skin and white skin libraries, with 74 upregulated and 17 genes downregulated. Between the brown skin and white skin libraries, there were 23 upregulated genes and 44 downregulated genes, while there were 33 upregulated genes and 121 downregulated genes between the brown skin and gray skin libraries. To our surprise, MC1R, MITF, TYR, KIT and KITLG showed no significant difference in the skin of three different coat colors and the expression of ASIP was only detected in white skin and not in gray and brown skins. The expression of PMEL,TRPM1, DCT, TYRP1 and ELOVL3 was validated by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) and the results of the qPCR were consistent with the RNA-seq except the expression of TYRP1 between the gray skin and white skin libraries. This study provides several candidate genes that may be associated with the development of diferent coat colors goat skin. More importantly, the fact that the ASIP gene was only detected in the white skin and not in the other dark skins and the MC1R gene showed no significant difference in expression between the three different coat colors goat is of particular interest for future studies that aim to elucidate theirs functional role in the regulation of skin color. These results will expand our understanding of the complex molecular mechanisms of skin physiology and melanogenesis in goat and provide a foundation for future studies.', u'Effective conservation of a species requires an understanding of how human activities influence population abundance. The greater sage grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) is a large tetraonid that is endemic to the sagebrush (Artemisia spp) habitat of western North America. A host of studies have documented the local effects of oil and gas development on greater sage grouse densities, movement, stress-levels and fitness components. However, to the best of our knowledge no one has tested whether greater sage grouse population level responses to oil and gas are consistent with the outcomes predicted by extrapolation of the results of the local studies. To test whether oil and gas results in a population-level response, hierarchical Bayesian state-space models were fitted to lek count data from Wyoming from the mid 1990s to 2012. The models indicate that climate, as indexed by the Pacific Decadal Oscillation, is the primary driver of sage grouse population dynamics across the state, explaining between 63% and 77% of the variance. Oil and gas development was not a significant driver, explaining 3% or less of the variance. Large-scale, open, collaborative, reproducible research is needed to ensure future decisions regarding oil and gas development have the intended consequences for sage grouse populations.', u'The Drosophila genome contains >13,000 protein coding genes, the majority of which remain poorly investigated. Important reasons include the lack of antibodies or reporter constructs to visualise these proteins. Here we present a genome-wide fosmid library of \u224810,000 GFP-tagged clones, comprising tagged genes and most of their regulatory information. For 880 tagged proteins we have created transgenic lines and for a total of 207 lines we have assessed protein expression and localisation in ovaries, embryos, pupae or adults by stainings and live imaging approaches. Importantly, we can visualise many proteins at endogenous expression levels and find a large fraction of them localising to subcellular compartments. Using complementation tests we demonstrate that two-thirds of the tagged proteins are fully functional. Moreover, our clones enable interaction proteomics from developing pupae and adult flies. Taken together, this resource will enable systematic analysis of protein expression and localisation in various cellular and developmental contexts.', u'Despite advances in sequencing, structural variants (SVs) remain difficult to reliably detect due to the short read length (<300bp) of 2nd generation sequencing.  Not only do the reads (or paired-end reads) need to straddle a breakpoint, but repetitive elements often lead to ambiguities in the alignment of short reads. We propose to use the long-reads (up to 20kb) possible with 3rd generation sequencing, specifically nanopore sequencing on the MinION. Nanopore sequencing relies on a similar concept to a Coulter counter, reading the DNA sequence from the change in electrical current resulting from a DNA strand being forced through a nanometer-sized pore embedded in a membrane.  Though nanopore sequencing currently has a relatively high mismatch rate that precludes base substitution and small frameshift mutation detection, its accuracy is sufficient for SV detection because of its long reads. In fact, long reads in some cases may improve SV detection efficiency.\nWe have tested nanopore sequencing to detect a series of well-characterized SVs, including large deletions, inversions, and translocations that inactivate the CDKN2A/p16 and SMAD4/DPC4 tumor suppressor genes in pancreatic cancer.  Using PCR amplicon mixes, we have demonstrated that nanopore sequencing can detect large deletions, translocations and inversions at dilutions as low as 1:100, with as few as 500 reads per sample.  Given the speed, small footprint, and low capital cost, nanopore sequencing could become the ideal tool for the low-level detection of cancer-associated SVs needed for molecular relapse, early detection, or therapeutic monitoring.', u'Complex chromosomal rearrangements consist of structural genomic alterations involving multiple instances of deletions, duplications, inversions, or translocations that co-occur either on the same chromosome or represent different overlapping events on homologous chromosomes. We present SVelter, an algorithm that first identifies regions of the genome suspected to harbor a complex event and then iteratively rearranges the local genome structure, in a randomized fashion, with each structure scored against characteristics of the observed sequencing data. We show that SVelter is able to accurately reconstruct these regions when compared to well-characterized genomes that have been deep sequenced with both short and long read technologies.', u'Cell assemblies are thought to be the units of information representation in the brain, yet their detection from experimental data is arduous. Here, we propose to infer effective coupling networks and model distributions for the activity of simultaneously recorded neurons in prefrontal cortex, during the performance of a decision-making task, and during preceding and following sleep epochs. Our approach, inspired from statistical physics, allows us to define putative cell assemblies as the groups of co-activated neurons in the models of the three recorded epochs. It reveals the existence of task-related changes of the effective couplings between the sleep epochs. The assemblies which strongly coactivate during the task epoch are found to replay during subsequent sleep, in correspondence to the changes of the inferred network. Across sessions, a variety of different network scenarios is observed, providing insight in cell assembly formation and replay.', u'Existing methods for quantifying transcript abundance require a fundamental compromise: either use high quality read alignments and experiment-specific models or sacrifice them for speed. We introduce Salmon, a quantification method that overcomes this restriction by combining a novel "lightweight" alignment procedure with a streaming parallel inference algorithm and a feature-rich model. These innovations yield both exceptional accuracy and order-of-magnitude speed benefits over traditional alignment-based methods.', u"In the past decade, researchers have been able to obtain pluripotent stem cells directly from an organism's differentiated cells through a process called cell reprogramming. This opens the way to potentially groundbreaking applications in regenerative and personalized medicine, in which ill patients could use self-derived induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells where needed. While the process of reprogramming has been shown to be possible, its efficiency remains so low after almost ten years since its conception as to render its applicability limited to laboratory research. In this paper, we study a mathematical model of the core transcriptional circuitry among a set of key transcription factors, which is thought to determine the switch among pluripotent and differentiated cell types. By employing standard tools from dynamical systems theory, we analyze the effects on the system's dynamics of overexpressing the core factors, which is what is performed during the reprogramming process. We demonstrate that the structure of the system is such that it can render the switch from an initial stable steady state (differentiated cell type) to the desired stable steady state (pluripotent cell type) highly unlikely. This finding provides insights into a possible reason for the low efficiency of current reprogramming approaches.", u'Inside individual cells, expression of genes is inherently stochastic and manifests as cell-to-cell variability or noise in protein copy numbers. Since proteins half-lives can be comparable to the cell-cycle length, randomness in cell-division times generates additional intercellular variability in protein levels. Moreover, as many mRNA/protein species are expressed at low-copy numbers, errors incurred in partitioning of molecules between the mother and daughter cells are significant. We derive analytical formulas for the total noise in protein levels for a general class of cell-division time and partitioning error distributions. Using a novel hybrid approach the total noise is decomposed into components arising from i) stochastic expression; ii) partitioning errors at the time of cell-division and iii) random cell-division events. These formulas reveal that random cell-division times not only generate additional extrinsic noise but also critically affect the mean protein copy numbers and intrinsic noise components. Counter intuitively, in some parameter regimes noise in protein levels can decrease as cell-division times become more stochastic. Computations are extended to consider genome duplication, where the gene dosage is increased by two-fold at a random point in the cell-cycle. We systematically investigate how the timing of genome duplication influences different protein noise components. \nIntriguingly, results show that noise contribution from stochastic expression is minimized at an optimal genome duplication time. Our theoretical results motivate new experimental methods for decomposing protein noise levels from single-cell expression data. Characterizing the contributions of individual noise mechanisms will lead to precise estimates of gene expression parameters and techniques for altering stochasticity to change phenotype of individual cells.', u"Gene products (RNAs, proteins) often occur at low molecular counts inside individual cells, and hence are subject to considerable random fluctuations (noise) in copy number over time.  Not surprisingly, cells encode diverse regulatory mechanisms to buffer noise. One such mechanism is the incoherent feedforward circuit. We analyze a simplistic version of this circuit, where an upstream regulator X affects both the production and degradation of a protein Y. Thus, any random increase in X's copy numbers would increase both production and degradation, keeping Y levels unchanged. To study its stochastic dynamics, we formulate this network into a mathematical model using the Chemical Master Equation formulation. We prove that if the functional dependence of Y's production and degradation on X is similar, then the steady-distribution of Y's copy numbers is independent of X. To investigate how fluctuations in Y propagate downstream, a protein Z whose production rate only depend on Y is introduced. Intriguingly, results show that the extent of noise in Z increases with noise in X, in spite of the fact that the magnitude of noise in Y is invariant of X. Such counter intuitive results arise because X enhances the time-scale of fluctuations in Y, which amplifies fluctuations in downstream processes. In summary, while feedforward systems can buffer a protein from noise in its upstream regulators, noise can propagate downstream due to changes in the time-scale of fluctuations.", u'How a potentially diverse population of hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) differentiates and proliferates to supply more than 1011 mature blood cells every day in humans remains a key biological question. We investigated this process by quantitatively analyzing the clonal structure of peripheral blood that is generated by a population of transplanted lentivirus-marked HSCs in myeloablated rhesus macaques.  Each transplanted HSC generates a clonal lineage of cells in the peripheral blood that is then detected and quantified through deep sequencing of the viral vector integration sites (VIS) common within each lineage.  This approach allowed us to observe, over a period of 4-12 years, hundreds of distinct clonal lineages. Surprisingly, while the distinct clone sizes varied by three orders of magnitude, we found that collectively, they form a steady-state clone size-distribution with a distinctive shape. Our concise model shows that slow HSC differentiation followed by fast progenitor growth is responsible for the observed broad clone size distribution. Although all cells are assumed to be statistically identical, analogous to a neutral theory for the different clone lineages, our mathematical approach captures the intrinsic variability in the times to HSC differentiation after transplantation. Steady-state solutions of our model show that the predicted clone size-distribution is sensitive to only two combinations of parameters. By fitting the measured clone size-distributions to our mechanistic model, we estimate both the effective HSC differentiation rate and the number of active HSCs.', u'Aging s most obvious characteristic is the time dependent increase of an individual s probability to die. This lifelong process is accompanied by a large number of molecular and physiological changes. Although numerous genes involved in aging have been identified in the past decades its leading factors have yet to be determined. To identify the very processes driving aging we have developed in the past years an assay to identify physiologically old individuals in a synchronized population of Drosophila melanogaster. Those individuals show an age-dependent increase of intestinal permeability followed by a high risk of death. Here we show that this physiological marker of aging is conserved in 3 invertebrate species Drosophila mojavensis, Drosophila virilis, Caenorhabditis elegans and 1 vertebrate specie Danio rerio. Our findings suggest that intestinal barrier dysfunction may be an important event in the aging process conserved across a broad range of species, thus raising the possibility that it may also be the case in Homo sapiens.', u'Recent developments in data driven science, in particular computational biology, have led scientists to integrate data from several sources, over diverse experimental procedures, or databases. This alone poses a major challenge in truthfully visualising data, especially when the amount of data points varies between classes.\nTo aid the presentation of datasets with differing sample size we have developed a new type of plot overcoming limitations of current standard visualization charts. Plots like bar charts, violin plots, strip charts or box-and-whiskers plots may provide visual information about mean/median, variance of the data, number of data points or density distribution of data; still, only a combination of these plots may provide all relevant information.\nWe have designed a new and simple plot inspired by the strip chart and the violin plot that operates by letting the normalized density of points restrict the jitter along the x-axis. \u03a4he plot displays the same contour as a violin plot, but resembles a simple strip chart for small number of data points. In this way the plot conveys information of both the number of data points, the density distribution, outliers and data spread in a very simple, comprehensible and condensed format. The package for producing the plots is available for R through the CRAN network (https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/sinaplot/index.html). In order to aid users without experience in R we also provide access to a  web-server accepting excel sheets to produce the plots (http://servers.binf.ku.dk:8890/sinaplot/) .', u'QuicK-mer is a unified pipeline for estimating genome copy-number from high-throughput Illumina sequencing data. QuicK-mer utilizes the Jellyfish application to efficiently tabulate counts of predefined sets of k-mers. The program performs GC-normalization using defined control regions and reports paralog-specific estimates of copy-number suitable for downstream analysis. The package is freely available at https://github.com/KiddLab/QuicK-mer', u'Purpose: The pace of Mendelian gene discovery is slowed by the "n-of-1 problem" - the difficulty of establishing causality of a putatively pathogenic variant in a single person or family. Identification of an unrelated person with an overlapping phenotype and suspected pathogenic variant in the same gene can overcome this barrier but is often impeded by lack of a convenient or widely-available way to share data on candidate variants / genes among families, clinicians and researchers.\nMethods: Social networking among families, clinicians and researchers was used to identify three children with variants of unknown significance in KDM1A and similar phenotypes. Results: De novo variants in KDM1A underlie a new syndrome characterized by developmental delay and distinctive facial features.\nConclusion: Social networking is a potentially powerful strategy to discover genes for rare Mendelian conditions, particularly those with non-specific phenotypic features. To facilitate the efforts of families to share phenotypic and genomic information with each other, clinicians, and researchers, we developed the Repository for Mendelian Genomics Family Portal (RMD-FP). Design and development of a web-based tool, MyGene2, that enables families, clinicians and researchers to search for gene matches based on analysis of phenotype and exome data deposited into the RMD-FP is underway.', u'Genetic switches based on the NF\u03baB/I\u03baB/DNA system  are master regulators  of an array of cellular responses. Recent kinetic experiments have shown that I\u03baB can actively remove NF\u03baB bound to its genetic sites via a process called "molecular stripping". This allows the NF\u03baB/I\u03baB/DNA switch to function under kinetic control rather than the thermodynamic control contemplated in the traditional models of gene switches. Using molecular dynamics simulations of coarse grained predictive energy landscape models for the constituent proteins by themselves and interacting  with the DNA we explore the functional motions of the  transcription factor NF\u03baB and its various binary and ternary complexes with DNA and the inhibitor I\u03baB. These studies show that the function of the NF\u03baB/I\u03baB/DNA genetic switch is realized via an allosteric mechanism. Molecular stripping occurs through the activation of a domain twist mode by the binding of IkB which occurs through conformational selection. Free energy calculations for DNA binding show that the binding of  I\u03baB not only results in a  significant decrease of the affinity of the  transcription factor for the DNA but also kinetically speeds DNA release.  Projections of the free energy onto various reaction coordinates reveal the structural details of the stripping pathways.', u'Cancer cell lines are often used in laboratory experiments as models of\ntumors, although they can have substantially different genetic and epigenetic profiles compared to tumors. We have developed a general computational method, TumorComparer,  to systematically quantify similarities and differences between tumor material when detailed genetic and molecular profiles are available. The comparisons can be flexibly tailored to a particular biological question by placing a higher weight on functional alterations of interest (weighted similarity). In a first pan-cancer application, we have compared 260 cell lines from the Cancer Cell Line Encyclopaedia (CCLE) and 1914 tumors of six different cancer types from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), using weights to emphasize genomic alterations that frequently recur in tumors. We report the potential suitability of particular cell lines as tumor models and identify apparently unsuitable outlier cell lines, some of which are in wide use, for each of the six cancer types. In future, this weighted similarity method may be generalized for use in a clinical setting to compare patient profiles consisting of genomic patterns combined with clinical attributes, such as diagnosis, treatment and response to therapy.', u'Maternal effects are widely documented in animals and plants, but not in fungi or other eukaryotes. A principal cause of maternal effects is asymmetrical parental investment in a zygote, creating greater maternal versus paternal influence on offspring phenotypes. Asymmetrical investments are not limited to animals and plants, but are also prevalent in fungi and groups including apicocomplexans, dinoflagellates, and red algae. Evidence suggesting maternal effects among fungi is sparse and anecdotal. In an experiment designed to test for maternal effects across sexual reproduction in the model fungus Neurospora crassa, we measured offspring phenotypes from crosses of all possible pairs of 22 individuals. Crosses encompassed reciprocals of 11 mating-type "A" and 11 mating-type "a" wild strains. After controlling for the genetic and geographic distances between strains in any individual cross, we found strong evidence for maternal control of sporocarp production, as well as maternal effects on spore numbers and spore germination. However, both parents exert equal influence on the percentage of spores that are pigmented, and size of pigmented spores. We propose a model linking the stage-specific presence or absence of maternal effects to cellular developmental processes: effects appear to be mediated primarily through the maternal cytoplasm, and, after spore cell walls form, maternal influence on spore development is limited. Maternal effects in fungi, thus far largely ignored, are likely to shape species\' evolution and ecology. The association of anisogamy and maternal effects in a fungus suggests maternal effects may also influence the biology of other anisogamous eukaryotes.', u'Given genomic variation data from multiple individuals, computing the likelihood of complex population genetic models is often infeasible.  To circumvent this problem, we introduce here a novel likelihood-free inference framework by applying deep learning, a powerful modern technique in machine learning.  In contrast to Approximate Bayesian Computation, another likelihood-free approach widely used in population genetics and other fields, deep learning does not require a distance function on summary statistics or a rejection step, and it is robust to the addition of uninformative statistics.  To demonstrate that deep learning can be effectively employed to estimate population genetic parameters and learn informative features of data, we focus on the challenging problem of jointly inferring natural selection and demography (in the form of a population size change history). Our method is able to separate the global nature of demography from the local nature of selection, without sequential steps for these two factors. Studying demography and selection jointly is motivated by Drosophila, where pervasive selection confounds demographic analysis.  We apply our method to 197 African Drosophila melanogaster genomes from Zambia to infer both their overall demography, and regions of their genome under selection.   We find many regions of the genome that have experienced hard sweeps, and fewer under selection on standing variation (soft sweep) or balancing selection.  Interestingly, we find that soft sweeps and balancing selection occur more frequently closer to the centromere of each chromosome.  In addition, our demographic inference suggests that previously estimated bottlenecks for African  Drosophila  melanogaster are too extreme, likely due in part to the unaccounted impact of selection.', u"The response of a neuronal population over a space of inputs depends on the intrinsic properties of its constituent neurons. Two main modes of single neuron\ndynamics integration and resonance have been distinguished. While resonator cell types exist in a variety of brain areas, few models incorporate this feature and fewer have investigated its effects. To understand better how a resonator's frequency preference emerges from its intrinsic dynamics and contributes to its local area's population firing rate dynamics, we analyze the dynamic gain of an analytically solvable two-degree of freedom neuron model. In the Fokker-Planck approach, the dynamic gain is intractable. The alternative Gauss-Rice approach lifts the resetting of the voltage after a spike. This allows us to derive a complete expression for the dynamic gain of a resonator neuron model in terms of a cascade of filters on the input. We find six distinct response types and use them to fully characterize the routes to resonance across all values of the relevant timescales. We find that resonance arises primarily due to slow\nadaptation with an intrinsic frequency acting to sharpen and adjust the location of the resonant peak. We determine the parameter regions for the existence of an intrinsic frequency and for subthreshold and spiking resonance, finding all possible intersections of the three. The expressions and analysis presented here provide an account of how intrinsic neuron dynamics shape dynamic population response properties and can facilitate the construction of an exact theory of correlations and stability of population activity in networks containing populations of resonator neurons.", u'Two species with similar resource requirements respond in a characteristic way to variations in their habitat -- their abundances rise and fall in concert. We use this idea to learn how bacterial populations in the microbiota respond to habitat conditions that vary from person-to-person across the human population. Our mathematical framework shows that habitat fluctuations are sufficient for explaining intra-bodysite correlations in relative species abundances from the Human Microbiome Project. We explicitly show that the relative abundances of phylogenetically related species are positively correlated and can be predicted from taxonomic relationships. We identify a small set of functional pathways related to metabolism and maintenance of the cell wall that form the basis of a common resource sharing niche space of the human microbiota.', u'In population genomics studies, accounting for the neutral covariance structure across population allele frequencies is critical to improve the robustness of genome-wide scan approaches. Elaborating on the BAYENV model, this study investigates several modeling extensions i) to improve the estimation accuracy of the population covariance matrix and all the related measures; ii) to identify significantly overly differentiated SNPs based on a calibration procedure of the XtX statistics; and iii) to consider alternative covariate models for analyses of association with population-specific\ncovariables. In particular, the auxiliary variable model allows to deal with multiple testing issues and, providing the relative marker positions are available, to capture some Linkage Disequilibrium information. A comprehensive simulation study was carried out to evaluate the performances of these different models. Also, when compared in terms of power, robustness and computational efficiency, to five other state-of-the-art genome scan methods (BAYENV2, BAYSCENV, BAYSCAN, FLK and LFMM) the proposed approaches proved highly effective. For illustration purpose, genotyping data on 18 French cattle breeds were analyzed leading to the identification of thirteen strong signatures of selection. Among these, four (surrounding the KITLG, KIT, EDN3 and ALB genes) contained SNPs strongly associated with\nthe piebald coloration pattern while a fifth (surrounding PLAG1) could be associated to morphological differences across the populations. Finally, analysis of Pool-Seq data from 12 populations of Littorina saxatilis living in two different ecotypes illustrates how the proposed framework might help addressing relevant ecological issue in non-model species. Overall, the proposed methods define a robust Bayesian framework to characterize adaptive genetic differentiation across populations. The BAYPASS program implementing the different models is available at http://www1.montpellier.inra.fr/CBGP/software/baypass/.', u'Feral livestock may harbor genetic variation of commercial, scientific, historical or esthetic value. Origins and uniqueness of feral cattle on Chirikof Island, Alaska are uncertain. The island is now part of the Alaska Maritime Wildlife Refuge and Federal wildlife managers want grazing to cease, presumably leading to demise of the cattle. Here we characterize the Chirikof Island cattle relative to extant breeds and discern their origins. Our analyses support the inference that Russian cattle arrived first on Chirikof Island, then approximately 120 years ago the first European taurine cattle were introduced to the island, and finally a large wave of Hereford cattle were introduced on average 40 years ago.  While clearly Bos taurus taurus, the Chirikof Island cattle appear at least as distinct as other recognized breeds. Further, this mixture of European and East-Asian cattle is unique compared to other North American breeds and we find evidence that natural selection in the relatively harsh environment of Chirikof Island has further impacted their genetic architecture. These results provide an objective basis for decisions regarding conservation of the Chirikof Island cattle.', u'As the second most common type of variations in the human genome, insertions and deletions (indels) have been linked to many diseases, but indels of more than a few bases are still challenging to discover from short-read sequencing data. Scalpel (http://scalpel.sourceforge.net) is open-source software for reliable indel detection based on the micro-assembly technique. To date, it has been successfully used to discover mutations in novel candidate genes for autism, and is extensively used in other large-scale studies of human diseases. This protocol gives an overview of the algorithm and describes how to use Scalpel to perform highly accurate indel calling from whole genome and exome sequencing data. We provide detailed instructions for an exemplary family-based de novo study, but we also characterize the other two supported modes of operation for single sample and somatic analysis. Indel normalization, visualization, and annotation of the mutations are also illustrated. Using a standard server, indel discovery and characterization in the exonic regions of the example sequencing data can be finished in ~6 hours after read mapping.', u'Recombination has essential roles in increasing genetic variability within a population and in ensuring successful meiotic events.  The objective of this study is to (i) infer the population scaled recombination rate (\u03c1), and (ii) identify and characterize localities of increased recombination rate for the domestic cat, Felis silvestris catus.  SNPs (n = 701) were genotyped in twenty-two cats of Eastern random bred origin.  The SNPs covered ten different chromosomal regions (A1, A2, B3, C2, D1, D2, D4, E2, F2, X) with an average region size of 850 Kb and an average SNP density of 70 SNPs/region.  The Bayesian method in the program inferRho was used to infer regional population recombination rates and hotspots localities.  The regions exhibited variable population recombination rates and four decisive recombination hotspots were identified on cat chromosome A2, D1, and E2 regions.  No correlation was detected between the GC content and the locality of recombination spots.  The hotspots enclosed L2 LINE elements and MIR and tRNA-Lys SINE elements in agreement with hotspots found in other mammals.', u'Mathematical modeling has become a valuable tool in the continued effort to understand, predict and ultimately treat a wide range of cancers in recent years. By describing biological phenomena in the concise and formal language of mathematics, it is possible to elucidate key components of complex systems and ultimately develop tools capable of quantifying and predicting system behavior under given conditions. When these tools are applied as a complement to the detailed understanding of cancer biology provided by biological scientists and clinicians, new insights can be gained into the mechanisms and first-order principles of cancer development and control.\n\nTo date, although mathematical tools have been applied extensively in understanding tumor growth and dynamic interactions between cancer and host, studies involving the theoretical modeling of patient response to treatment and the contribution of such findings to the development of clinically-actionable therapeutic protocols remain strikingly limited. In particular, despite the rising emergence of immunotherapy as a promising cancer treatment, knowledge gained from mathematical modeling of tumor-immune interactions often still eludes application to the clinic. The currently underutilized potential of such techniques to forecast response to treatment, aid the development of immunotherapeutic regimes and ultimately streamline the transition from innovative concept to clinical practice is hence the focus of this review.', u'Recent studies have described the potential for \u2033collider bias\u2033 to modify the magnitude of genotype-phenotype associations, however the extent to which this effect can induce a completely false-positive association remains unclear. In a sample of 142,630 individuals from the UK Biobank study, inclusion of height (a \u2033collider\u2033) as a covariate induces biologically spurious, but genome-wide significant, associations between autosomal genetic variants and sex. These associations are non-significant in models unadjusted for height. Our study underpins the importance of causal inference modeling in the design and interpretation of genetic (and non-genetic) association studies.', u'Adenosine triphosphate (ATP), the chemical energy currency of biology, is synthesized in eukaryotic cells primarily by the mitochondrial ATP synthase. ATP synthases operate by a rotary catalytic mechanism where proton translocation through the membrane-inserted FO region is coupled to ATP synthesis in the catalytic F1 region via rotation of a central rotor subcomplex. We report here single particle electron cryomicroscopy (cryo-EM) analysis of the bovine mitochondrial ATP synthase. Combining cryo-EM data with bioinformatic analysis allowed us to determine the fold of the a subunit, suggesting a proton translocation path through the FO region that involves both the a and b subunits. 3D classification of images revealed seven distinct states of the enzyme that show different modes of bending and twisting in the intact ATP synthase. Rotational fluctuations of the c8-ring within the FO region support a Brownian ratchet mechanism for proton-translocation driven rotation in ATP synthases.', u"Multi-electrode arrays (MEAs) allow non-invasive multi-unit recording in-vitro from cultured neuronal networks. For sufficient neuronal growth and adhesion on such MEAs, substrate preparation is required. Plating of dissociated neurons on a uniformly prepared MEA's surface results in the formation of spatially extended random networks with substantial inter-sample variability. Such cultures are not optimally suited to study the relationship between defined structure and dynamics in neuronal networks. To overcome these shortcomings, neurons can be cultured with pre-defined topology by spatially structured surface modification. Spatially structuring a MEA surface accurately and reproducibly with the equipment of a typical cell-culture laboratory is challenging.\n\nIn this paper, we present a novel approach utilizing micro-contact printing (\u03bcCP) combined with a custom-made device to accurately position patterns on MEAs with high precision. We call this technique AP-\u03bcCP (accurate positioning micro-contact printing).\n\nOther approaches presented in the literature using \u03bcCP for patterning either relied on facilities or techniques not readily available in a standard cell culture laboratory, or they did not specify means of precise pattern positioning.\n\nHere we present a relatively simple device for reproducible and precise patterning in a standard cell-culture laboratory setting. The patterned neuronal islands on MEAs provide a basis for high throughput electrophysiology to study the dynamics of single neurons and neuronal networks.", u'During his well-known debate with Fisher regarding the phenotypic dataset of Panaxia dominula, Wright (1948) suggested fluctuating selection as a potential explanation for the observed change in frequency. This model has since been invoked in a number of analyses, with the focus of discussion centering mainly on random or oscillatory fluctuations of selection intensities. Here, we present a novel method to consider non-random changes in selection intensities using Wright-Fisher approximate Bayesian (ABC)-based approaches, in order to detect and evaluate a change in selection strength from time-sampled data. This novel method jointly estimates the position of a change point as well as the strength of both corresponding selection coefficients (and dominance for diploid cases) from the allele trajectory. The simulation studies of CP-WFABC reveal the combinations of parameter ranges and input values that optimize performance, thus indicating optimal experimental design strategies. We apply this approach to both the historical dataset of Panaxia dominula in order to shed light on this historical debate, as well as to whole-genome time-serial data from influenza virus in order to identify sites with changing selection intensities in response to drug treatment.', u'Actin remodeling is indispensable for dendritic spine development, morphology and density which signify learning, memory and motor skills. CAP2 is a regulator of actin dynamics through sequestering G-actin and severing F-actin. In a mouse model, ablation of CAP2 leads to cardiovascular defects and delayed wound healing. This report investigates the role of CAP2 in the brain using Cap2gt/gt mice. Dendritic spine density and neuronal dendritic length were altered in Cap2gt/gt. This was accompanied by increased F-actin content and F-actin accumulation in cultured Cap2gt/gt neurons. In membrane depolarization assays, Cap2gt/gt synaptosomes exhibit an impaired F/G actin ratio, indicating altered actin dynamics. We show an interaction between CAP2 and n-cofilin, presumably mediated through the C-terminal domain of CAP2 and is cofilin ser3 phosphorylation dependent. In vivo, the consequences of this interaction were altered phosphorylated cofilin levels and formation of cofilin aggregates in the neurons. Thus, our studies identify a novel role of CAP2 in neuronal development and neuronal actin dynamics.', u'The significance of single cell transcription resides not only in the cumulative expression strength of the cell population but also in its heterogeneity. We propose a new model that improves the detection of changes in the transcriptional heterogeneity pattern of RNAseq data using two heterogeneity parameters: "burst proportion" and "burst magnitude", whose changes are validated using RNA FISH. Transcriptional "cobursting" governed by distinct mechanisms during myoblast proliferation and differentiation, is described here.', u'Odors elicit complex patterns of activated olfactory sensory neurons. Knowing the complete olfactome, i.e.\nresponses in all sensory neurons for all odorants, is desirable to understand olfactory coding. The DoOR project\ncombines all available Drosophila odorant response data into a single consensus response matrix. Since its first\nrelease many studies were published: receptors were deorphanized and several response profiles were expanded.\nIn this study, we add to the odor-response profiles for four odorant receptors (Or10a, Or42b, Or47b, Or56a).\nWe deorphanize Or69a, showing a broad response spectrum with the best ligands including 3-hydroxyhexanoate,\nalpha-terpineol, 3-octanol and linalool. We include these datasets into DoOR, and provide a comprehensive update\nof both code and data. The DoOR project has a web interface for quick queries (http://neuro.uni.kn/DoOR), and a\ndownloadable, open source toolbox written in R, including all processed and original datasets. DoOR now gives\nreliable odorant-responses for nearly all Drosophila olfactory responding units, listing 693 odorants, for a total of\n7381 data points.', u'The combinatorial binding of trans-acting factors (TFs) to regulatory genomic regions is an important basis for the spatial and temporal specificity of gene regulation.  We present a new computational approach that reveals how TFs are organized into combinatorial regulatory programs.  We define a regulatory program to be a set of TFs that bind together at a regulatory region.  Unlike other approaches to characterizing TF binding, we permit a regulatory region to be bound by one or more regulatory programs.  We have developed a method called regulatory program discovery (RPD) that produces compact and coherent regulatory programs from in vivo binding data using a topic model.  Using RPD we find that the binding of 115 TFs in K562 cells can be organized into 49 interpretable regulatory programs that bind ~140,000 distinct regulatory regions in a modular manner.  The discovered regulatory programs recapitulate many published protein-protein physical interactions and have consistent functional annotations of chromatin states.  We found that, for certain TFs, direct (motif present) and indirect (motif absent) binding is characterized by distinct sets of binding partners and that the binding of other TFs can predict whether the TF binds directly or indirectly with high accuracy.  Joint analysis across two cell types reveals both cell-type-specific and shared regulatory programs and that thousands of regulatory regions use different programs in different cell types.  Overall, our results provide comprehensive cell-type-specific combinatorial binding maps and suggest a modular organization of binding programs in regulatory regions.', u'Recent insights into the human microbiome offer the hope of manipulating its composition to help fight infectious diseases. While this strategy has shown huge potential, its consequences for pathogen evolution have not been explored. Here we show that manipulating the microbiome to increase the competition that pathogens face could lead to the evolution of increased production of virulence factors that pathogens use to combat commensals, an evolutionary response that can increase total disease induced mortality in the long-term. However, if treatment with microbiome engineering is sufficiently aggressive this evolutionary response can be avoided and the pathogen eradicated. Furthermore, we show that using damage limitation therapies (e.g. anti-virulence and anti-inflammatory drugs) in combination with microbiome manipulation increases the potential for pathogen eradication. While manipulating our microbiota offers a promising alternative to antibiotics, our results show that these treatments must be designed with careful consideration of the potential evolutionary responses of target pathogens.', u'Antigenic sites in viral pathogens exhibit distinctive evolutionary dynamics due to their role in evading recognition by host immunity. Antigenic selection is known to drive higher rates of non-synonymous substitution; less well understood is why differences are observed between viruses in their propensity to mutate to a novel or previously encountered amino acid. Here, we present a model to explain patterns of antigenic reversion and forward substitution in terms of the epidemiological and molecular processes of the viral population. We develop an analytical three-strain model and extend the analysis to a multi-site model to predict characteristics of observed sequence samples. Our model provides insight into how the balance between selection to escape immunity and to maintain viability is affected by the rate of mutational input. We also show that while low probabilities of reversion may be due to either a low cost of immune escape or slowly decaying host immunity, these two scenarios can be differentiated by the frequency patterns at antigenic sites. Comparison between frequency patterns of human influenza A (H3N2) and human RSV-A suggests that the increased rates of antigenic reversion in RSV-A is due to faster decaying immunity and not higher costs of escape.', u'Ecological systems are the quintessential complex systems, involving numerous high-order\ninteractions and non-linear relationships. The most commonly used statistical modelling techniques\ncan hardly reflect the complexity of ecological patterns and processes. Finding hidden relationships\nin complex data is now possible through the use of massive computational power, particularly by\nmeans of Artificial Intelligence (AI) methods, such as evolutionary computation.\nHere we use symbolic regression (SR), which searches for both the formal structure of equations and\nthe fitting parameters simultaneously, hence providing the required flexibility to characterize\ncomplex ecological systems. First, we demonstrate how SR can deal with complex datasets for: 1)\nmodelling species richness; and 2) modelling species spatial distributions. Second, we illustrate how\nSR can be used to find general models in ecology, by using it to: 3) develop new models for the\ninterspecific abundance-occupancy relationship; 4) develop species richness estimators; and 5)\ndevelop the species-area relationship and the general dynamic model of oceanic island biogeography.\nAll the examples suggest that evolving free-form equations purely from data, often without prior\nhuman inference or hypotheses, may represent a very powerful tool for ecologists and biogeographers\nto become aware of hidden relationships and suggest general theoretical principles.', u'Transcriptome studies based on quantitative sequencing estimate gene expression levels by measuring the abundance of target RNAs in libraries of sequence reads. The sequencing cost is proportional to the total number of sequenced reads. Therefore, in order to cover rare RNAs, considerable quantities of abundant and identical reads have to be sequenced. This major limitation can be lifted by strategies used to deplete the library from some of the most abundant sequences. However, these strategies involve either an extra handling of the input RNA sample, or the use of a large number of reverse-transcription primers (termed "not-so-random primers"), which are costly to synthetize and customize. Here, we demonstrate that with a precise selection of only 40 "pseudo-random" reverse-transcription primers, it is possible to decrease the rate of undesirable abundant sequences within a library without affecting the transcriptome diversity. "Pseudo-random" primers are simple to design, and therefore are a flexible tool for enriching transcriptome libraries in rare transcripts sequences.', u'The Chlamydomonas genome has been sequenced, assembled and annotated to produce a rich resource for genetics and molecular biology in this well-studied model organism. The annotated genome is very rich in open reading frames upstream of the annotated coding sequence (\u2018uORFs\u2019): almost three quarters of the assigned transcripts have at least one uORF, and frequently more than one. This is problematic with respect to the standard \u2018scanning\u2019 model for eukaryotic translation initiation. These uORFs can be grouped into three classes: class 1, initiating in-frame with the coding sequence (cds) (thus providing a potential in-frame N-terminal extension); class 2, initiating in the 5UT and terminating out-of-frame in the cds; and class 3, initiating and terminating within the 5UT.  Multiple bioinformatics criteria (including analysis of Kozak consensus sequence agreement and BLASTP comparisons to the closely related Volvox genome, and statistical comparison to cds and to random-sequence controls) indicate that of ~4000 class 1 uORFs, approximately half are likely in vivo translation initiation sites. The proposed resulting N-terminal extensions in many cases will sharply alter the predicted biochemical properties of the encoded proteins. These results suggest significant modifications in ~2000 of the ~20,000 transcript models with respect to translation initiation and encoded peptides. In contrast, class 2 uORFs may be subject to purifying selection, and the existent ones (surviving selection) are likely inefficiently translated. Class 3 uORFs are remarkably similar to random sequence expectations with respect to size, number and composition and therefore may be largely selectively neutral; their very high abundance (found in more than half of transcripts, frequently with multiple uORFs per transcript) nevertheless suggests the possibility of translational regulation on a wide scale.', u'Biodiversity loss is a global problem and island species/populations are particularly vulnerable to such loss. Low genetic diversity is one of the factors that can lead a population to extinction. Loss of bee populations is of particular concern because of the knock-on consequences for the pollination guilds that the lost bees once serviced. Here we evaluate the genetic structure of the bumble bee Bombus morio populations on the mainland of South East Brazil and on nearby islands. We analyzed a total of 659 individuals from 24 populations by sequencing two mitochondrial genes (COI and Cytb) and using 14 microsatellite loci. Levels of diversity were high in most of populations and were similar on islands and the mainland. Furthermore, genetic diversity was not significantly correlated with island area, although it was lower in populations from distant islands. Our data suggest that long-term isolation on islands is not affecting the population viability of this species. This may be attributed to the high dispersal ability of B. morio, its capacity to suvive in urban environments, and the characteristics of the studied islands.', u'Almost all genetic risk factors for autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) can be found in the general population, but the effects of that risk are unclear in people not ascertained for neuropsychiatric symptoms. Using several large ASD consortia and population based resources, we find genetic links between ASDs and typical variation in social behavior and adaptive functioning. This finding is evidenced through both inherited and de novo variation, indicating that multiple types of genetic risk for ASDs influence a continuum of behavioral and developmental traits, the severe tail of which can result in an ASD or other neuropsychiatric disorder diagnosis. A continuum model should inform the design and interpretation of studies of neuropsychiatric disease biology.', u'1.\tThe open-access scientific philosophy has been widely adopted and proven to promote considerable progress in the fields of ecology and evolution. Open-access global databases now exist on animal migration, the distribution of species, and conservation status, to mention a few. However, a gap exists for databases on population dynamics spanning the rich diversity of the animal kingdom. This information is fundamental to our understanding of the conditions that have shaped variation in animal life histories and their relationships with the environment. Furthermore, an animal population schedules of reproduction and mortality determine its invasive potential, and its risk of local extinction, which are at the core of conservation biology.\n2.\tMatrix population models (MPMs) are among the most widely used demographic tools by animal ecologists. MPMs project population dynamics in terms of reproduction, mortality, and development over the entire life cycle. The results of MPMs have direct biological interpretations, facilitating comparisons among animal species as different as Caenorhabditis elegans, Loxodonta africana and Homo sapiens.\n3.\tThousand of animal demographic records exist in the form of MPMs, but they are dispersed throughout the literature, rendering comparative analyses difficult. Here, we introduce the COMADRE Animal Matrix Database version 1.0.0, an open-source online repository containing data on 402 species worldwide, from 272 studies, with a total of 1,575 population projection matrices. COMADRE also contains ancillary information (e.g. ecoregion, taxonomy, biogeography, etc.) that facilitates interpretation of the numerous demographic metrics that can be derived from its MPMs.\n4.\tSynthesis: We introduce the COMADRE Animal Matrix Database, a resource for animal demography. The open access nature of this database, together with its ancillary information will facilitate comparative analysis, as will the growing availability of databases focusing on other traits, and tools to query and combine them. Through future frequent updates of COMADRE, and its integration with other online resources, we encourage animal ecologists to tackle global ecological and evolutionary questions with unprecedented statistical power.', u'A pattern in which nucleotide transitions are favored several-fold over transversions is common in molecular evolution.  When this pattern occurs among amino acid replacements, explanations often invoke an effect of selection, on the grounds that transitions are more conservative in their effects on proteins.  However, the underlying hypothesis of conservative transitions has never been tested directly.  Here we assess support for this hypothesis using direct evidence: the fitness effects of mutations in actual proteins, measured via individual or paired growth experiments.  We assembled data from 8 published studies, ranging in size from 24 to 757 single-nucleotide mutations that change an amino acid.  Every study has the statistical power to reveal significant effects of amino acid exchangeability, and most studies have the power to discern a binary conservative-vs-radical distinction.  However, only one study suggests that transitions are significantly more conservative than transversions.  In the combined set of 1239 replacements, the chance that a transition is more conservative than a transversion is 53 % (95 % confidence interval, 50 % to 56 %), compared to the null expectation of 50 %.  We show that this effect is not large compared to that of most biochemical factors, and is not large enough to explain the several-fold bias observed in evolution.  In short, available data have the power to verify the "conservative transitions" hypothesis if true, but suggest instead that selection on proteins plays at best a minor role in the observed bias.', u'Conserved, ultraconserved and other classes of constrained non-coding elements (referred as CNEs) represent one of the mysteries of current comparative genomics. These elements are defined using various degrees of sequence similarity between organisms and several thresholds of minimal length and are often marked by extreme conservation that frequently exceeds the one observed for protein-coding sequences. We here explore the distribution of different classes of CNEs in entire chromosomes, in the human genome. We employ two complementary methodologies, the scaling of block entropy and box-counting, with the aim to assess fractal characteristics of different CNE datasets. Both approaches converge to the conclusion that well-developed fractality is characteristic of elements that are either marked by extreme conservation between two or more organisms or are of ancient origin, i.e. conserved between distant organisms across evolution. Given that CNEs are often clustered around genes, especially those that regulate developmental processes, we verify by appropriate gene masking that fractal-like patterns emerge irrespectively of whether elements found in proximity or inside genes are excluded or not. An evolutionary scenario is proposed, involving genomic events, that might account for fractal distribution of CNEs in the human genome as indicated through numerical simulations.', u"In January 2014, it was reported that strong external stimuli, such as a transient low-pH stressor, was capable of inducing the reprogramming of mammalian somatic cells, resulting in the generation of pluripotent cells (Obokata et al. 2014a, b). This cellular reprograming event was designated 'stimulus-triggered acquisition of pluripotency' (STAP) by the authors of these reports. However, after multiple instances of scientific misconduct in the handling and presentation of the data were brought to light, both reports were retracted. To investigate the actual scientific significance of the purported STAP phenomenon, we sought to repeat the original experiments based on the methods presented in the retracted manuscripts and other relevant information. As a result, we have concluded that the STAP phenomenon as described in the original studies is not reproducible.", u'Sirtuin enzymes are NAD+-dependent protein deacylases that play a central role in the regulation of healthspan and lifespan in organisms ranging from yeast to mammals. There is intense interest in the activation of the seven mammalian sirtuins (SIRT1-7) in order to extend mammalian healthspan and lifespan. However, there is currently no understanding of how to design sirtuin-activating compounds beyond allosteric activators of SIRT1-catalyzed reactions that are limited to particular substrates. Moreover, across all families of enzymes, only a dozen or so distinct classes of non-natural small molecule activators have been characterized, with only four known modes of activation among them. None of these modes of activation exploit the unique catalytic reaction mechanisms of the target enzymes. Here, we report a general mode of sirtuin activation that is distinct from any of the known modes of enzyme activation. Based on the conserved mechanism of sirtuin-catalyzed deacylation reactions, we establish biophysical properties of small molecule modulators that can result in enzyme activation for any sirtuin and any substrate. Building upon this framework, we propose mechanism-based workflows for the design of new sirtuin-activating compounds. We demonstrate experimentally the existence of small molecule modulators that activate multiple sirtuins through the proposed mode of action.', u'Murraya   paniculata  is   a   potent   ethno medicinally   important plant used both in traditional medicine as an analgesic and for wood and its activity against S. aureus established its traditional uses too. Selaginella is also used traditionally in wounds, postpartum, menstrual disease against microbes Lycopodium is used in Rheumatism and disease of lungs and kidneys and our study also revealed the scientific base behind its uses. The result of our experiments showed that in vitro antimicrobial screening of extracts and pure compounds of Murraya paniculata   indicated positive activity against Staphylococcus aureus. They showed acetone extracts of the plants showed in inhibition zone of 13mm, methanol extract showed in inhibition zone of 9mm and ethanol extract showed in inhibition zone of 7mm but the distilled water extract  showed no inhibition zone. We also performed work on selaginella and lycopodium but got no inhibition zone.', u'High-throughput sequencing (HTS) is increasingly being used for broad applications of microbial characterization, such as microbial ecology, clinical diagnosis, and outbreak epidemiology. However, the analytical task of comparing short sequence reads against the known diversity of microbial life has proved to be computationally challenging. The One Codex data platform was created with the dual goals of analyzing microbial data against the largest possible collection of microbial reference genomes, as well as presenting those results in a format that is consumable by applied end-users. One Codex identifies microbial sequences using a "k-mer based" taxonomic classification algorithm through a web-based data platform, using a reference database that currently includes approximately 40,000 bacterial, viral, fungal, and protozoan genomes. In order to evaluate whether this classification method and associated database provided quantitatively different performance for microbial identification, we created a large and diverse evaluation dataset containing 50 million reads from 10,639 genomes, as well as sequences from six organisms novel species not be included in the reference databases of any of the tested classifiers. Quantitative evaluation of several published microbial detection methods shows that One Codex has the highest degree of sensitivity and specificity (AUC = 0.97, compared to 0.82-0.88 for other methods), both when detecting well-characterized species as well as newly sequenced, "taxonomically novel" organisms.', u'Classification is an everyday instinct as well as a full-fledged scientific discipline.  Throughout the history of medicine, disease classification is central to how we develop knowledge, make diagnosis, and assign treatment.  Here we discuss the classification of cancer, the process of categorizing cancer subtypes based on their observed clinical and biological features.  Traditionally, cancer nomenclature is primarily based on organ location, e.g., "lung cancer" designates a tumor originating in lung structures.  Within each organ-specific major type, finer subgroups can be defined based on patient age, cell type, histological grades, and sometimes molecular markers, e.g., hormonal receptor status in breast cancer, or microsatellite instability in colorectal cancer.  In the past 15+ years, high-throughput technologies have generated rich new data regarding somatic variations in DNA, RNA, protein, or epigenomic features for many cancers.  These data, collected for increasingly large tumor collections, have provided not only new insights into the biological diversity of human cancers, but also exciting opportunities to discover previously unrecognized cancer subtypes.  Meanwhile, the unprecedented volume and complexity of these data pose significant challenges for biostatisticians, cancer biologists, and clinicians alike.  Here we review five related issues that represent contemporary problems in cancer taxonomy and interpretation.  1. How many cancer subtypes are there? 2. How can we evaluate the robustness of a new classification system? 3. How are classification systems affected by intratumor heterogeneity and tumor evolution? 4. How should we interpret cancer subtypes? 5. Can multiple classification systems coexist?  While related issues have existed for a long time, we will focus on those aspects that have been magnified by the recent influx of complex multi-omics data.   Ongoing exploration of these problems is essential for data-driven refinement of cancer classification and the successful application of these concepts in precision medicine.', u'Code is increasingly central to research in ecology. From running statistical analyses for field and lab projects to developing software intended to be used broadly for modeling and data analysis, most ecologists now commonly write code as part of their research. It is important that the communication of research results addresses the fact that code is now a key component of most ecological studies.', u'As part of the Cambrian explosion of omics data, metagenomics brings to the table a specific, defining trait: its social essence. The *meta* prefix exerts its influence, with multitudes manifesting themselves everywhere; from samples to data analysis, from actors involved to (present and future) applications. Of these dimensions, data analysis is where needs lay further from what current tools provide. Key features are, among others, scalability, reproducibility, data provenance and distribution, process identity and versioning. These are the goals guiding our work in MG7, a 16S metagenomics data analysis system. The basic principle is a new approach to data analysis, where configuration, processes, or data locations are static, type-checked and subject to the standard evolution of a well-maintained software project. Cloud computing, in its Amazon Web Services incarnation, when coupled with these ideas, produces a robust, safely configurable, scalable tool. Processes, data, machine behaviors and their dependencies are expressed using a set of libraries which bring as much as possible checking and validation to the type level, without sacrificing expressiveness. Together they form a toolkit for defining scalable cloud-based workflows composed of stateless computations, with a static reproducible specification of dependencies, behavior and wiring of all steps. The modeling of taxonomy data is done using Bio4j, where the new paradigm of graph databases allows for both a simple expression of taxonomic assignment tasks and the calculation of taxa abundance values considering the hierarchic structure of the taxonomy tree. MG7 includes a new 16S reference database, *16S-DB7*, built with a flexible and sustainable update system, and the possibility of project-driven personalization.\n\nThe first and second authors contributed equally to this work.', u'The origin of nervous systems has traditionally been discussed within two conceptual frameworks. Input-output models stress the sensory-motor aspects of nervous systems, while internal coordination models emphasize the role of nervous systems in coordinating multicellular activity, especially muscle-based motility. Here we consider both frameworks and apply them to describe aspects of each of three main groups of phenomena that nervous systems control: behavior, physiology and development. We argue that both frameworks and all three aspects of nervous system function need to be considered for a comprehensive discussion of nervous system origins. This broad mapping of the option space enables an overview of the many influences and constraints that may have played a role in the evolution of the first nervous systems.', u"Current strategies to improve graft outcome following kidney transplantation consider information at the HLA loci. Here, we used exome sequencing of DNA from ABO compatible kidney graft recipients and their living donors to determine recipient and donor mismatches at the amino acid level over entire exomes. We estimated the number of amino acid mismatches in transmembrane proteins, more likely to be seen as foreign by the recipient's immune system, and designated this tally as the allogenomics mismatch score (AMS). The AMS can be measured prior to transplantation with DNA for potential donor and recipient pairs. We examined the degree of relationship between the AMS and post-transplantation kidney allograft function by linear regression. In a discovery cohort, we found a significant inverse correlation between the AMS and kidney graft function at 36 months post-transplantation (n=10 recipient/donor pairs; 20 exomes) (r2>=0.57, P<0.05). The predictive ability of the AMS persists when the score is restricted to regions outside of the HLA loci. This relationship was validated using an independent cohort of 24 recipient donor pairs (n=48 exomes) (r2>=0.39, P<0.005). In an additional cohort of living and mostly intra-familial recipient/donor pairs (n=19, 38 exomes), we validated the association after controlling for donor age at time of transplantation. Finally, a model that controls for donor age, HLA mismatches and time post-transplantation yields a consistent AMS effect across these three independent cohorts (P<0.05). Taken together, these results show that the AMS is a strong predictor of long-term graft function in kidney transplant recipients.", u'The CRISPR/Cas9 system has revolutionized genome editing by providing unprecedented DNA-targeting specificity. Here we demonstrate that this system can be applied to facilitate efficient plasmid selection for transformation as well as selective gene insertion into plasmid vectors by cleaving unwanted plasmid byproducts after restriction enzyme digestion and ligation. Using fluorescent and chromogenic proteins as reporters, we demonstrate that CRISPR/Cas9 cleavage excludes unwanted ligation byproducts and increases transformation efficiency of desired inserts from 20% up to 97% \xb1 3%. This CRISPR/Cas9-Assisted Transformation-Efficient Reaction (CRATER) protocol is a novel, inexpensive, and convenient method for obtaining specific cloning products.', u'Studies of a cell rely on either observational approaches or perturbational/genetic approaches to define the contribution of a gene to specific cellular traits.  It is unclear, however, under what circumstances each of the two approaches can be most successful and when they are doomed to fail.  By analyzing over 500 complex traits of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae we show that the trait relatedness to fitness determines the performance of observational approaches.  Specifically, in traits subject to strong natural selection, genes identified using observational approaches are often highly coordinated in expression, such that the gene-trait associations are readily recognizable; in sharp contrast, the lack of such coordination in traits subject to weak selection leads to no detectable activity-trait associations for any individual genes and thus the failure of observational approaches.  We further show that genetic approaches can be successful when the genes responsible for coordinating the target genes of observational approaches are perturbed.  However, because the system-level cellular responses to a random mutation affect more or less every gene and consequently every trait, most genetic effects convey no trait-specific functional information for understanding the traits, which is particularly true for traits subject to weak selection.', u'Background\nSeveral R packages exist for the detection of differentially expressed genes from RNA-Seq data. The analysis process includes three main steps, namely normalization, dispersion estimation and test for differential expression. Quality control steps along this process are recommended but not mandatory, and failing to check the characteristics of the dataset may lead to spurious results. In addition, normalization methods and statistical models are not exchangeable across the packages without adequate transformations the users are often not aware of. Thus, dedicated analysis pipelines are needed to include systematic quality control steps and prevent errors from misusing the proposed methods.\n\nResults\nSARTools is an R pipeline for differential analysis of RNA-Seq count data. It can handle designs involving two or more conditions of a single biological factor with or without a blocking factor (such as a batch effect or a sample pairing). It is based on DESeq2 and edgeR and is composed of an R package and two R script templates (for DESeq2 and edgeR respectively). Tuning a small number of parameters and executing one of the R scripts, users have access to the full results of the analysis, including lists of differentially expressed genes and a HTML report that (i) displays diagnostic plots for quality control and model hypotheses checking and (ii) keeps track of the whole analysis process, parameter values and versions of the R packages used.\n\nConclusions\nSARTools provides systematic quality controls of the dataset as well as diagnostic plots that help to tune the model parameters. It gives access to the main parameters of DESeq2 and edgeR and prevents untrained users from misusing some functionalities of both packages. By keeping track of all the parameters of the analysis process it fits the requirements of reproducible research.', u"Post-translational modifications (PTMs) of \u03b1\u03b2tubulin are believed to regulate interactions with microtubule binding proteins. A well-characterized PTM involves the removal and re-ligation of the C-terminal tyrosine on \u03b1-tubulin, but the purpose of this tyrosination-detyrosination cycle remains elusive. Here, we examined the processive motility of mammalian dynein complexed with dynactin and BicD2 (DDB) on tyrosinated versus detyrosinated microtubules. Motility was decreased ~4-fold on detyrosinated microtubules, constituting the largest effect of a tubulin PTM on motor function observed to date. This preference is mediated by dynactin's microtubule binding p150 subunit rather than dynein itself. Interestingly, on chimeric microtubules, DDB molecules that initiated movement on tyrosinated tubulin continued moving into a region of detyrosinated tubulin. This result indicates that the \u03b1-tubulin tyrosine facilitates initial motor-tubulin encounters, but is not needed for subsequent motility. Our results reveal a strong effect of the C-terminal \u03b1-tubulin tyrosine on dynein-dynactin motility and suggest that the tubulin tyrosination cycle could modulate the initiation of dynein-driven motility in cells.", u'The present work demonstrates the antimicrobial potential of Psidium guajava leaves extract by using\nvarious solvents. The results indicate that water and acetone are better than methanol and ether for the\nextraction of the antibacterial properties of guava. The results also indicate that the plant extracts have\nantibacterial effect on both Gram positive and Gram-negative bacteria, that is, can be used as broad\nspectrum antibacterial compounds. The observed inhibition of Gram-positive bacteria Staphylococcus\naureus and Gram negative bacteria E.coli suggests that guava possesses compounds containing\nantibacterial properties that can effectively suppress the growth when extracted using acetone and water\nas solvent. Comparisons with related data from the literature indicate that according to the different\nmethodologies of studies on antibacterial activity, the most diverse outcomes can be obtained. This study\nprovides scientific insight to further determine the antimicrobial principles and investigate other\npharmacological properties of guava. On the basis of the present finding, P. guajava leaves possess\ncapabilities of being a good candidate in the search for a natural antimicrobial agent against infections\nand/or diseases caused by S. aureus and E.coli.', u'Diversification rates are estimated from phylogenies, typically without fossils, except in paleontological studies. By  nature, rate estimations depend heavily on the time data provided in phylogenies, which are  divergence times and (when used) fossil ages. \n Among these temporal data,  fossil ages are by far the most precisely known (divergence times are inferences calibrated with fossils). We propose a method to compute the likelihood of a phylogenetic tree with fossils in which the only known time information is the fossil ages. \n\nTesting our approach on simulated data shows that the maximum likelihood rate estimates from the phylogenetic tree shape and the fossil dates are almost as accurate as the ones obtained by taking into account all the data, including the divergence times. Moreover they are substantially more accurate than the estimates obtained only from the exact divergence times (without taking into account the fossil record).', u'Many key bacterial pathogens are frequently carried asymptomatically, and the emergence and spread of these opportunistic pathogens can be driven, or mitigated, via demographic changes within the host population. These inter-host transmission dynamics combine with basic evolutionary parameters such as rates of mutation and recombination, population size and selection, to shape the genetic diversity within bacterial populations. Whilst many studies have focused on how molecular processes underpin bacterial population structure, the impact of host migration and the connectivity of the local populations has received far less attention. A stochastic neutral model incorporating heightened local transmission has been previously shown to fit closely with genetic data for several bacterial species. However, this model did not incorporate transmission limiting population stratification, nor the possibility of migration of strains between subpopulations, which we address here by presenting an extended model. The model captures the observed population patterns for the common nosocomial pathogens Staphylococcus epidermidis and Enterococcus faecalis, while Staphylococcus aureus and Enterococcus faecium display deviations attributable to adaptation. It is demonstrated analytically and numerically that expected strain relatedness may either increase or decrease as a function of increasing migration rate between subpopulations, being a complex function of the rate at which microepidemics occur in the metapopulation. Moreover, it is shown that in a structured population markedly different rates of evolution may lead to indistinguishable patterns of relatedness among bacterial strains; caution is thus required when drawing evolution inference in these cases.', u'Metagenomic studies are leading to the discovery of a hidden diversity of RNA viruses. These new viruses are poorly characterised and new approaches are needed predict the host species these viruses pose a risk to. The rhabdoviruses are a diverse family of RNA viruses that includes important pathogens of humans, animals and plants. We have discovered 32 new rhabdoviruses through a combination of our own RNA sequencing of insects and searching public sequence databases. Combining these with previously known sequences we reconstructed the phylogeny of 195 rhabdovirus sequences, and produced the most in depth analysis of the family to date. In most cases we know nothing about the biology of the viruses beyond the host they were identified from, but our dataset provides a powerful phylogenetic approach to predict which are vector-borne viruses and which are specific to vertebrates or arthropods.  By reconstructing ancestral and present host states we found that switches between major groups of hosts have occurred rarely during rhabdovirus evolution. This allowed us to propose 76 new likely vector-borne vertebrate viruses among viruses identified from vertebrates or biting insects. Based on currently available data, our analysis suggests it is likely there was a single origin of the known plant viruses and arthropod-borne vertebrate viruses, while vertebrate-specific and arthropod-specific viruses arose at least twice. There are also few transitions between aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems. Viruses also cluster together at a finer scale, with closely related viruses tending to be found in closely related hosts. Our data therefore suggest that throughout their evolution, rhabdoviruses have occasionally jumped between distantly related host species before spreading through related hosts in the same environment. This approach offers a way to predict the most probable biology and key traits of newly discovered viruses.', u'Selection of oviposition sites by gravid females is a critical behavioural preference in the reproductive cycle of Anopheles gambiae, the principal Afrotropical malaria vector mosquito. Several studies suggest this decision is mediated by semiochemicals associated with potential oviposition sites. To better understand the chemosensory basis of this behaviour and identify compounds that can modulate oviposition, we examined the generally held hypothesis that suboptimal larval habitats give rise to semiochemicals that negatively influence the oviposition preference of gravid females. Dual-choice bioassays indicated that oviposition sites conditioned in this manner do indeed foster significant and concentration dependent aversive effects on the oviposition site selection of gravid females. Headspace analyses derived from aversive habitats consistently noted the presence of dimethyl disulphide (DMDS), dimethyl trisulphide (DMTS) and 6-methyl-5-hepten-2-one (sulcatone) each of which unitarily affected An. gambiae oviposition preference.  Electrophysiological assays across the antennae, maxillary palp, and labellum of gravid An. gambiae revealed differential responses to these semiochemicals.  Taken together, these findings validate the hypothesis in question and suggest that suboptimal environments for An. gambiae larval development results in the release of DMDS, DMTS and sulcatone that impact the response valence of gravid females to directly modulate the chemical ecology of oviposition site selection.', u"Motivation: High-throughput data are now commonplace in biological research. Rapidly changing technologies and application mean that novel methods for detecting differential behaviour that account for a 'large P , small n' setting are required at an increasing rate. The development of such methods is, in general, being done on an ad hoc basis, requiring further development cycles and a lack of standardization between analyses.\nResults: We present here a generalised method for identifying differential behaviour within high-throughput biological data through empirical Bayesian methods. This approach is based on our baySeq algorithm for identification of differential expression in RNA-seq data based on a negative binomial distribution, and in paired data based on a beta-binomial distribution. Here we show how the same empirical Bayesian approach can be applied to any parametric distribution, removing the need for lengthy development of novel methods for differently distributed data. Comparisons with existing methods developed to address specific problems in high-throughput biological data show that these generic methods can achieve equivalent or better performance. A number of enhancements to the basic algorithm are also presented to increase flexibility and reduce computational costs.\nAvailability: The methods are implemented in the R baySeq (v2) package, available on Bioconductor http://www.bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/html/baySeq.html.", u'Genome-wide association studies have identified hundreds of common genetic variants associated with obesity and Type 2 diabetes. These studies have focused on additive association tests. Identifying deviations from additivity may provide new biological insights and explain some of the missing heritability for these diseases.\n\nTo identify non-additive associations we performed a genome-wide association study using a dominance deviation model for BMI, obesity and Type 2 diabetes (4,040 cases) in 120,286 individuals of British ancestry from the UK Biobank study.\n\nKnown obesity-associated variants in FTO showed strong evidence for deviation from additivity (P=3x10-5) through a recessive effect of the BMI-increasing allele. The average BMI of individuals carrying 0, 1 or 2 BMI-raising alleles was 27.27kg/m2 (95% CI:27.22-27.31), 27.54kg/m2 (95% CI:27.50-27.58), and 28.07kg/m2 (95% CI:28.0-28.14), respectively. A similar effect was observed in 105,643 individuals from the GIANT consortium (P=0.003; Pmeta-analysis=1x10-7). We also detected a recessive effect (Pdomdev=5x10-4) at CDKAL1 for Type 2 diabetes risk. Homozygous risk allele carriers had an OR=1.48 (95% CI:1.32-1.65) in comparison to the heterozygous group that had an OR=1.06 (95% CI:0.99-1.14), a result consistent with a previous study. We did not identify any novel genome-wide associations.\n\nIn conclusion, although we find no evidence for widespread non-additive effects contributing to the genetic risk of obesity and Type 2 diabetes, we find robust examples of recessive effects at the FTO and CDKAL1 loci.', u"Motivation: Cytosine methylation is widespread in most eukaryotic genomes and is known to play a substantial role in various regulatory pathways. Unmethylated cytosines may be converted to uracil through the addition of sodium bisulphite, allowing genome-wide quantification of cytosine methylation via high-throughput sequencing. The data thus acquired allows the discovery of methylation 'loci', contiguous regions of methylation consistently methylated across biological replicates. The mapping of these loci allows for associations with other genomic factors to be identified, and for analyses of differential methylation to take place.\n\nResults: The segmentSeq R package has been extended to identify methylation loci from high-throughput sequencing data from multiple conditions. A statistical model is then developed that accounts for biological replication and variable rates of non-conversion of cytosines in each sample to compute posterior likelihoods of methylation at each locus within an empirical Bayesian framework. The same model is used as a basis for analysis of differential methylation between multiple experimental conditions with the baySeq R package. These analyses are demonstrated on a set of data derived from Dicer-like mutants in Arabidopsis to reveal complex interactions between the different Dicer-like mutants and their methylation pathways.\n\nAvailability: The segmentSeq and baySeq packages are available on the Bioconductor (http://www.bioconductor.org).", u'Antimetabolite chemotherapies increase uracil levels in DNA, and thus identification of factors that influence the uracil content in DNA may have implications for understanding uracil-mediated chromosomal instability. We previously showed in the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae that uracil content in DNA correlates with replication timing, where the earliest and latest replicating regions are depleted in uracil. Here, we manipulated nucleotide biosynthesis enzymes in budding yeast to determine whether the pattern of uracil incorporation could be altered. In strains with high levels of uracil incorporation, deletion of dCMP deaminase (Dcd1) accelerated uracil incorporation at early-firing origins, likely due to rapid dTTP pool depletion. In contrast, increasing the activity of ribonucleotide reductase, which is required for the synthesis of all dNTPs via ribonucleotide diphosphates, lead to dUTP and dTTP pool equilibration and a concomitant increase in uracil content throughout the genome. These data suggest that uracil availability and the dUTP:dTTP ratio are temporally regulated during S phase and govern uracil incorporation into the genome. Therapeutic manipulation of nucleotide biosynthesis in human cells to either increase the dUTP pool or deplete the dTTP pool in early S phase may therefore improve the efficacy of antimetabolite chemotherapies.', u'The Atlantic Canary (Serinus canaria) is the most common caged bird with extensive carotenoid plumage coloration. Domestic strains of canaries have been bred for a range of colors and patterns, making them a valuable model for studies of the genetic bases for feather pigmentation. However, no detailed account has been published on the feather pigments of the various strains of this species, particularly in relation to dietary pigments available during molt. Moreover, in the twentieth century, aviculturists created a red canary by crossing Atlantic Canaries with Red Siskins (Carduelis cucullata). This red-factor canary is reputed to metabolically transform yellow dietary pigments into red ketocarotenoids, but such metabolic capacity has yet to be documented in controlled experiments. We fed molting yellow and red-factor canaries seed diets supplemented with either B-carotene, lutein/zeaxanthin, or B-cryptoxanthin/B-carotene and measured the coloration and carotenoid content of newly grown feathers. On all diets, yellow canaries grew yellow feathers and red canaries grew red feathers. Yellow canaries deposited dietary pigments and metabolically derived canary xanthophylls into feathers. Red-factor canaries deposited the same plumage carotenoids as yellow canaries, but also deposited red ketocarotenoids. Red-factor canaries deposited higher total amounts of carotenoids than yellow canaries, but otherwise there was little effect of diet treatment on feather hue or chroma. These observations indicate that canaries can use a variety of dietary precursors to produce plumage coloration and that red canaries can metabolically convert yellow dietary carotenoids into red ketocarotenoids.', u'Delays in gene networks result from the sequential nature of protein assembly. However, it is unclear\nhow models of gene networks that use delays should be modified when considering time-dependent\nchanges in temperature. This is important, as delay is often used in models of genetic oscillators\nthat can be entrained by periodic fluctuations in temperature. Here, we analytically derive the time\ndependence of delay distributions in response to time-varying temperature changes. We find that the\nresulting time-varying delay is nonlinearly dependent on parameters of the time-varying temperature\nsuch as amplitude and frequency, therefore, applying an Arrhenius scaling may result in erroneous\nconclusions. We use these results to examine a model of a synthetic gene oscillator with temperature\ncompensation. We show that temperature entrainment follows from the same mechanism that\nresults in temperature compensation. Under a common Arrhenius scaling alone, the frequency of\nthe oscillator is sensitive to changes in the mean temperature but robust to changes in the frequency\nof a periodically time-varying temperature. When a mechanism for temperature compensation is\nincluded in the model, however, we show that the oscillator is entrained by periodically varying\ntemperature even when maintaining insensitivity to the mean temperature.', u'The development of next-generation sequencing (NGS) technologies for HLA and KIR genotyping is rapidly advancing knowledge of genetic variation of these highly polymorphic loci. NGS genotyping is poised to replace older methods for clinical use, but standard methods for reporting and exchanging these new, high quality genotype data are needed. The Immunogenomic NGS Consortium, a broad collaboration of histocompatibility and immunogenetics clinicians, researchers, instrument manufacturers and software developers, has developed the Minimum Information for Reporting Immunogenomic NGS Genotyping (MIRING) reporting guidelines. MIRING is a checklist that specifies the content of NGS genotyping results as well as a set of messaging guidelines for reporting the results. A MIRING message includes five categories of structured information \u2013 message annotation, reference context, full genotype, consensus sequence and novel polymorphism \u2013 and references to three categories of accessory information \u2013 NGS platform documentation, read processing documentation and primary data. These eight categories of information ensure the long-term portability and broad application of this NGS data for all current histocompatibility and immunogenetics use cases. In addition, MIRING can be extended to allow the reporting of genotype data generated using pre-NGS technologies. Because genotyping results reported using MIRING are easily updated in accordance with reference and nomenclature databases, MIRING represents a bold departure from previous methods of reporting HLA and KIR genotyping results, which have provided static and less-portable data. More information about MIRING can be found online at miring.immunogenomics.org.', u'One of the unaddressed challenges in drug discovery is that drug potency determined in vitro is not a reliable indicator of drug efficacy and toxicity in humans. Accumulated evidences suggest that the in vivo activity is more strongly correlated with the binding/unbinding kinetics than the equilibrium thermodynamics of protein-ligand interactions (PLI) in many cases. However, existing experimental and computational techniques are both insufficient in studying the molecular details of kinetics process of PLI. Consequently, we not only have limited mechanistic understanding of the kinetic process but also lack a practical platform for the high-throughput screening and optimization of drug leads based on their kinetic properties. Here we address this unmet need by integrating energetic and conformational dynamic features derived from molecular modeling with multi-task learning. To test our method, HIV-1 protease drug complexes are used as a model system. Our integrated model provides us with new insights into the molecular determinants of the kinetics of PLI. We find that the coherent coupling of conformational dynamics between protein and ligand may play a critical role in determining the kinetic rate constants of PLI. Furthermore, we demonstrated that Normal Mode Analysis (NMA) is an efficient method to capture conformational dynamics of the binding/unbinding kinetics. Coupled with the multi-task learning, we can predict combined kon and koff accurately with an accuracy of 74.35%. Thus, it is possible to screen and optimize compounds based on their kinetic property. Further development of such computational tools will bridge one of the critical missing links between in vitro drug screening and in vivo drug efficacy and toxicity.', u'Motoneurons developmentally acquire appropriate cellular architectures that ensure connections with postsynaptic muscles and presynaptic neurons. In Drosophila, leg motoneurons are organized as a myotopic map, where their dendritic domains represent the muscle field. Here we investigate mechanisms underlying development of aspects of this myotopic map, required for walking. A behavioral screen identified roles for Semaphorins (Sema) and Plexins (Plex) in walking behavior. Deciphering this phenotype, we show that PlexA/Sema1a mediates motoneuron axon branching in ways that differ in the proximal femur and distal tibia, based on motoneuronal birth order. Importantly, we show a novel role for glia in positioning dendrites of specific motoneurons; PlexB/Sema2a is required for dendritic positioning of late-born motoneurons but not early-born motoneurons. These findings indicate that communication within motoneurons and between glia and motoneurons, mediated by the combined action of different Plexin/Semaphorin signaling systems, are required for the formation of a functional myotopic map.', u'The extent of range overlap of incipient and recent species depends on the type and magnitude of phenotypic divergence that separates them. Trait divergence by social selection likely initiates many speciation events, but may yield niche-conserved lineages predisposed to limit each others ranges via ecological competition. Here we examine this neglected aspect of social selection speciation theory in relation to the discovery of a non-ecotonal species border between sunbirds. We find that Nectarinia moreaui and N. fuelleborni meet in a ~6 km wide contact zone, as estimated by molecular cline analysis. These species exploit similar bioclimatic niches, but sing highly divergent learned songs, consistent with divergence by social selection. Cline analyses suggest that within-species stabilizing social selection on song-learning predispositions maintains species differences in song despite both hybridization and cultural transmission in the contact zone. We conclude that ecological competition between moreaui and fuelleborni contributes to the stabilization of the species border, but that ecological competition acts in conjunction with reproductive interference. The evolutionary maintenance of learned song differences in a hybrid zone recommend this study system for future studies on the mechanisms of learned song divergence and its role in speciation.', u'Vision allows animals to detect spatial differences in environmental light levels. High-resolution image-forming eyes evolved from low-resolution eyes via increases in photoreceptor cell number, improvements in optics and changes in the neural circuits that process spatially resolved photoreceptor input. However, the evolutionary origins of the first low-resolution visual systems have been unclear. We propose that the lowest-resolving (two-pixel) visual systems could initially have functioned in visual phototaxis. During visual phototaxis, such elementary visual systems compare light on either side of the body to regulate phototactic turns. Another, even simpler and non-visual strategy is characteristic of helical phototaxis, mediated by sensory-motor eyespots. The recent mapping of the complete neural circuitry (connectome) of an elementary visual system in the larva of the annelid Platynereis dumerilii sheds new light on the possible paths from non-visual to visual phototaxis and to image-forming vision. We outline an evolutionary scenario focusing on the neuronal circuitry to account for these transitions. We also present a comprehensive review of the structure of phototactic eyes in invertebrate larvae and assign them to the non-visual and visual categories. We propose that non-visual systems may have preceded visual phototactic systems in evolution that in turn may have repeatedly served as intermediates during the evolution of image-forming eyes.', u'The wine yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, is the best understood microbial eukaryote at the molecular and cellular level, yet its natural geographic distribution is unknown. Here we report the results of a field survey for S. cerevisiae, S. paradoxus and other budding yeast on oak trees in Europe. We show that yeast species differ in their geographic distributions, and investigated which ecological variables can predict the isolation rate of S. paradoxus, the most abundant species. We find a positive association between trunk girth and S. paradoxus abundance suggesting that older trees harbour more yeast.  S. paradoxus isolation frequency is also associated with summer temperature, showing highest isolation rates at intermediate temperatures. Using our statistical model, we estimated a range of summer temperatures at which we expect high S. paradoxus isolation rates, and show that the geographic distribution predicted by this optimum temperature range is consistent with the worldwide distribution of sites where  S. paradoxus has been isolated. Using laboratory estimates of optimal growth temperatures for  S. cerevisiae relative to  S. paradoxus, we also estimated an optimum range of summer temperatures for S. cerevisiae. The geographical distribution of these optimum temperatures are consistent with the locations where wild S. cerevisiae have been reported, and can explain why only human-associated S. cerevisiae strains are isolated at northernmost latitudes. Our results provide a starting point for targeted isolation of S. cerevisiae from natural habitats, which could lead to a better understanding of climate associations and natural history in this important model microbe.', u'Abstract Despite growing evidence for nongenetic inheritance, the ecological conditions that favor the evolution of heritable parental or grandparental effects remain poorly understood. Here, we systematically explore the evolution of parental effects in a patch-structured population with locally changing environments. When selection favors the production of a mix of offspring types, this mix differs according to the parental phenotype, implying that parental effects are favored over selection for bet-hedging in which the mixture of offspring phenotypes produced does not depend on the parental phenotype. Positive parental effects (generating a positive correlation between parental and offspring phenotype) are favored in relatively stable habitats and when different types of local environment are roughly equally abundant, and can give rise to long-term parental inheritance of phenotypes. By contrast, unstable habitats can favor negative parental effects (generating a negative correlation between parental and offspring phenotype), and under these circumstances even slight asymmetries in the abundance of local environmental states select for marked asymmetries in transmission fidelity.', u"Despite the increasing opportunity to collect large-scale data sets for population genomic analyses, the use of high throughput sequencing to study populations of polyploids has seen little application. This is due in large part to problems associated with determining allele copy number in the genotypes of polyploid individuals (allelic dosage uncertainty--ADU), which complicates the calculation of important quantities such as allele frequencies. Here we describe a statistical model to estimate biallelic SNP frequencies in a population of autopolyploids using high throughput sequencing data in the form of read counts.We bridge the gap from data collection (using restriction enzyme based techniques [e.g., GBS, RADseq]) to allele frequency estimation in a unified inferential framework using a hierarchical Bayesian model to sum over genotype uncertainty. Simulated data sets were generated under various conditions for tetraploid, hexaploid and octoploid populations to evaluate the model's performance and to help guide the collection of empirical data. We also provide an implementation of our model in the R package POLYFREQS and demonstrate its use with two example analyses that investigate (i) levels of expected and observed heterozygosity and (ii) model adequacy. Our simulations show that the number of individuals sampled from a population has a greater impact on estimation error than sequencing coverage. The example analyses also show that our model and software can be used to make inferences beyond the estimation of allele frequencies for autopolyploids by providing assessments of model adequacy and estimates of heterozygosity.", u'Hi-C is one of the main methods for investigating spatial co-localisation of DNA in the nucleus. However, the raw sequencing data obtained from Hi-C experiments suffer from large biases and spurious contacts, making it difficult to identify true interactions. Existing methods use complex models to account for biases and do not provide a significance threshold for detecting interactions. Here we introduce a simple binomial probabilistic model that resolves complex biases and distinguishes between true and false interactions. The model corrects biases of known and unknown origin and yields a p-value for each interaction, providing a reliable threshold based on significance. We demonstrate this experimentally by testing the method against a random ligation dataset. Our method outperforms previous methods and provides a statistical framework for further data analysis, such as comparisons of Hi-C interactions between different conditions. GOTHiC is available as a user-friendly BioConductor package (http://www.bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/html/GOTHiC.html).', u'Hybridization is recognized as a powerful mechanism of speciation and a driving force in generating biodiversity. However, only few multicellular species, limited to a handful of plants and animals, have been shown to fulfill all the criteria of homoploid hybrid speciation. This lack of evidence could lead to the misconception that speciation by hybridization has a limited role in eukaryotes, particularly in single-celled organisms. Laboratory experiments have revealed that fungi such as budding yeasts can rapidly develop reproductive isolation and novel phenotypes through hybridization, showing that in principle homoploid speciation could occur in nature. Here we report a case of homoploid hybrid speciation in natural populations of the budding yeast Saccharomyces paradoxus inhabiting the North American forests. We show that the rapid evolution of chromosome architecture and an ecological context that led to secondary contact between nascent species drove the formation of an incipient hybrid species with a potentially unique ecological niche.', u'Motivation:\nThe goal of fine-mapping in genomic regions associated with complex diseases and traits is to identify causal variants that point to molecular mechanisms behind the associations. Recent fine-mapping methods using summary data from genome-wide association studies rely on exhaustive search through all possible causal configurations, which is computationally expensive. \nResults:\nWe introduce FINEMAP, a software package to efficiently explore a set of the most important causal configurations of the region via a shotgun stochastic search algorithm. We show that FINEMAP produces accurate results in a fraction of processing time of existing approaches and is therefore a promising tool for analyzing growing amounts of data produced in genome-wide association studies.\nAvailability:\nFINEMAP v1.0 is freely available for Mac OS X and Linux at http://www.christianbenner.com.', u"Many populations live in environments subject to frequent biotic and abiotic changes.  Nonetheless, it is interesting to ask whether an evolving population's mean fitness can increase indefinitely, and potentially without any limit, even in a constant environment.  A recent study showed that fitness trajectories of Escherichia coli populations over 50,000 generations were better described by a power-law model than by a hyperbolic model.  According to the power-law model, the rate of fitness gain declines over time but fitness has no upper limit, whereas the hyperbolic model implies a hard limit.  Here, we examine whether the previously estimated power-law model predicts the fitness trajectory for an additional 10,000 generations. To that end, we conducted more than 1100 new competitive fitness assays.  Consistent with the previous study, the power-law model fits the new data better than the hyperbolic model. We also analysed the variability in fitness among populations, finding subtle, but significant, heterogeneity in mean fitness. Some, but not all, of this variation reflects differences in mutation rate that evolved over time. Taken together, our results imply that both adaptation and divergence can continue indefinitely-or at least for a long time-even in a constant environment.", u'The acquisition of nutrients is essential for maintenance of metabolic processes in all organisms. Nutritional imbalance contributes to myriad metabolic disorders that include malnutrition, diabetes, and even cancer. Recently, the importance of macronutrient ratio of food has emerged as a critical factor to determine health outcomes. Here we show that individual modifications to a completely defined diet markedly impact multiple aspects of organism wellbeing in Drosophila melanogaster. Through a longitudinal survey of several diets we demonstrate that increased levels of dietary glucose significantly improve longevity and immunity in adult Drosophila. Our metagenomic studies, show that relative macronutrient levels not only influence the host, but also have a profound impact on microbiota composition. However, we found that elevated dietary glucose extended the lifespan of adult flies even when raised in a germ-free environment. Furthermore, when challenged with a chronic enteric infection, flies fed a diet with added glucose had increased survival times even in the absence of an intact microbiota. Thus, in contrast to known links between the microbiota and animal health, our findings uncover a novel microbiota-independent response to diet that impacts host wellbeing. As dietary responses are highly conserved in animals, we believe our results offer a general understanding of the association between glucose metabolism and animal health.', u'Chromatin endogenous cleavage (ChEC) uses fusion of a protein of interest to micrococcal nuclease (MNase) to target calcium-dependent cleavage to specific genomic loci in vivo. Here we report the combination of ChEC with high-throughput sequencing (ChEC-seq) to map budding yeast transcription factor (TF) binding.  Temporal analysis of ChEC-seq data reveals two classes of sites for TFs, one displaying rapid cleavage at sites with robust consensus motifs and the second showing slow cleavage at largely unique sites with low-scoring motifs.  Sites with high-scoring motifs also display asymmetric cleavage, indicating that ChEC-seq provides information on the directionality of TF-DNA interactions.  Strikingly, similar DNA shape patterns are observed regardless of motif strength, indicating that the kinetics of ChEC-seq discriminates DNA recognition through sequence and/or shape.  We propose that time-resolved ChEC-seq detects both high-affinity interactions of TFs with consensus motifs and sites preferentially sampled by TFs during diffusion and sliding.', u'Adult zebrafish are robustly social animals whereas larva is not. We designed an assay to determine at what stage of development zebrafish begin to interact with and prefer other fish. One week old zebrafish do not show significant social preference whereas most 3 weeks old zebrafish strongly prefer to remain in a compartment where they can view conspecifics. However, for some individuals, the presence of conspecifics drives avoidance instead of attraction. Social preference is dependent on vision and requires viewing fish of a similar age/size. In addition, over the same 1-3 weeks period larval zebrafish increasingly tend to coordinate their movements, a simple form of social interaction. Finally, social preference and coupled interactions are differentially modified by an NMDAR antagonist and acute exposure to ethanol, both of which are known to alter social behavior in adult zebrafish.', u"The functional mechanisms underlying disease association identified by Genome-wide Association Studies remain unknown for susceptibility loci located outside gene coding regions. In addition to the regulation of gene expression, synthesis of effects from multiple surrounding functional variants has been suggested as an explanation of hard-to-interpret associations.\n\nHere, we define filter criteria based on linkage disequilibrium measures and allele frequencies which reflect expected properties of synthesizing variant sets. For eligible candidate sets we search for those haplotypes that are highly correlated with the risk alleles of a genome-wide associated variant.\n\nWe applied our methods to 1,000 Genomes reference data and confirmed Crohn's Disease and Type 2 Diabetes susceptibility loci. Of these, a proportion of 32% allowed explanation by three-variant-haplotypes carrying at least two functional variants, as compared to a proportion of 16% for random variants (P=2.9 x t10^-6). More importantly, we detected examples of known loci whose association can fully be explained by surrounding missense variants: three missense variants from MUC19 synthesize rs11564258 (LOC105369736/MUC19, intron; Crohn's Disease). Next, rs2797685 (PER3, intron; Crohn's Disease) is synthesized by a 57 kilobase haplotype defined by five missense variants from PER3 and three missense variants from UTS2. Finally, the association of rs7178572 (HMG20A, intron; Type 2 Diabetes) can be explained by the synthesis of eight haplotypes, each carrying at least one missense variant in either PEAK1, TBC1D2B, CHRNA5 or ADAMTS7.\n\nIn summary, application of our new methods highlights the potential of synthesis analysis to guide functional follow-up investigation of findings from association studies.", u"Decline in pollinator abundance and diversity is not only a conservation issue but also a threat to crop pollination. Maintained infrastructure corridors, including electricity transmission lines, are potentially valuable wild pollinator habitat. However, this potential is hindered by a lack of evidence comparing wild pollinator's abundance and diversity on transmission corridors with other recognized wild pollinator habitats. We study the influence of transmission corridors on a key pollinator group, bumblebees, in Sweden's Uppland region by comparing bumblebee abundance and diversity in transmission corridors with that in other habitats. Our results show that a transmission corridor's presence has no impact on the surrounding area's bumblebee diversity. However, transmission corridors and other maintained habitats have an abundance and diversity of bumblebees as high as semi-natural grasslands and do sustain species important both from a conservation and an ecosystem service provision perspective. Under their current management regime transmission corridors already provide valuable bumblebee habitat, but given that forage plant density is the main determinant of bumblebee abundance, they could be further enhanced by establishing and maintaining key forage plants. We show that in northern temperate regions habitats like those within maintained transmission corridors can complement agri-environmental schemes (AES) to assist in both bumblebee conservation and securing the ongoing provision of the ecosystem service they provide.", u'The evolutionary forces that maintain genetic variation for quantitative traits within populations remain poorly understood. One hypothesis suggests that variation is maintained by a balance between new mutations and their removal by selection and drift. Theory predicts that this mutation-selection balance will result in an excess of low-frequency variants and a negative correlation between minor allele frequency and selection coefficients. Here, we test these predictions using the genetic loci associated with total expression variation (eQTLs) and allele-specific expression variation (aseQTLs) mapped within a single population of the plant Capsella grandiflora. In addition to finding eQTLs and aseQTLs for a large fraction of genes, we show that alleles at these loci are rarer than expected and exhibit a negative correlation between phenotypic effect size and frequency. Overall, our results show that the distribution of frequencies and effect sizes of the loci responsible for local expression variation within a single, outcrossing population are consistent with mutation-selection balance.', u'Scientists have access to artifacts of evolutionary history (namely, the fossil record and genomic sequences of living organisms) but they have limited means with which to infer the exact evolutionary events that occurred to produce today s living world. An intriguing question to arise from this historical limitation is whether the evolutionary paths of organisms are dominated by internal or external controlled processes (i.e., Life as a factory) or whether they are inherently random and subject to completely different outcomes if repeated under identical conditions (i.e., Life as a casino parlor). Two experimental approaches, ancestral sequence reconstruction and experimental evolution with microorganisms, can be used to recapitulate ancient adaptive pathways and provide valuable insights into the mutational steps that constitute an organism s genetic heritage. Ancestral sequence reconstruction follows a backwards-from-present-day strategy in which various ancestral forms of a modern gene or protein are reconstructed and then studied mechanistically. Experimental evolution, by contrast, follows a forward-from-present day strategy in which microbial populations are evolved in the laboratory under defined conditions in which their evolutionary paths may be closely monitored. Here I describe a novel hybrid of these two methods, in which synthetic components constructed from inferred ancestral gene or protein sequences are placed into the genomes of modern organisms that are then experimentally evolved. Through this system, we aim to establish the comparative study of ancient phenotypes as a novel, statistically rigorous methodology with which to explore the respective impacts of biophysics and chance in evolution within the scope of the Extended Synthesis.', u'The modular organization of the phenotype is an emergent property that derives from a semi-independent relation of body parts in their inheritance, development, function, and evolution. Understanding the modular organization of living beings is essential to understand the evolvability and plasticity of organismal form, and how morphological variation is structured during evolution and development. For this reason, delimiting morphological modules and establishing the factors originating them is a lively field of inquiry in biology today. However, unifying the results of the available body of knowledge is a challenge because of the large number of species studied and the disparity of morphological system, from the flower of angiosperms to the wing of insects and the head of primates (to name a few). The specific factors behind each pattern of modularity and the methods used to identify vary widely as well. This review summarizes more than 190 original research articles since 1958, in order to get a quantitative appraisal on what is studied, how is studied, and how results are explained. The results reveal an heterogeneous picture, where some taxa, systems, and approaches are over-studied, while others receive minor attention; other major trends and gaps in the study of morphological modularity through time are also discussed. In sum, this systematic review seeks to offer an objective view of this research field and highlight future research niches.', u'Understanding the regulation and structure of ribosomes is essential to understanding protein synthesis and its dysregulation in disease.  While ribosomes are believed to have a fixed stoichiometry among their core ribosomal proteins (RPs), some experiments suggest a more variable composition. Testing such variability requires direct and precise quantification of RPs. We used mass-spectrometry  to  directly quantify RPs across monosomes and polysomes of mouse embryonic stem cells (ESC) and budding yeast. Our data show that the stoichiometry among core RPs in wild-type yeast cells and ESC depends both on the growth conditions and on the number of ribosomes bound per mRNA. Furthermore, we find that the fitness of cells with a deleted RP-gene is inversely proportional to the enrichment of the corresponding RP in polysomes. Together, our findings support the existence of ribosomes with distinct protein composition and physiological function.', u'In this study, we adapt a protocol for the growth of previously uncultured environmental bacterial isolates, to make it compatible with whole genome sequencing. We demonstrate that in combination with the MinION sequencing device, complete assemblies can be derived, allowing genomic comparisons to be made. This approach allows rapid, inexpensive and straightforward discovery, and genomic analysis, of previously uncultured prokaryotic genomes, and brings greater ownership of all parts of the sequencing process back to individual researchers.', u'The CRISPR/Cas9 system has been rapidly adopted for genome editing. However, one major issue with this system is the lack of robust bioinformatics tools for design of single guide RNA (sgRNA), which determines the efficacy and specificity of genome editing. To address this pressing need, we analyze CRISPR RNA-seq data and identify many novel features that are characteristic of highly potent sgRNAs. These features are used to develop a bioinformatics tool for genome-wide design of sgRNAs with improved efficiency. These sgRNAs as well as the design tool are freely accessible via a web server, WU-CRISPR (http://crispr.wustl.edu).', u'The accurate identification of low-frequency variants in tumors    \n  remains an unsolved problem.  To support characterization of the\n  issues in a realistic setting, we have developed software tools and\n  a reference dataset for diagnosing variant calling pipelines.  The\n  dataset contains millions of variants at frequencies ranging from\n  0.05 to 1.0. To generate the dataset, we performed whole-genome\n  sequencing of a mixture of two Corriel cell lines, NA19240 and\n  NA12878, the mothers of YRI (Y) and CEU (C) HapMap trios,\n  respectively. The cells were mixed in three different proportions,\n  10Y/90C, 50Y/50C and 90Y/10C, in an effort to simulate the\n  heterogeneity found in tumor samples. We sequenced three biological\n  replicates for each mixture, yielding approximately 1.4 billion\n  reads per mixture for an average of 64X coverage. Using the\n  published genotypes as our reference, we evaluate the performance of\n  a general variant calling algorithm, constructed as a demonstration\n  of our flexible toolset, and make comparisons to a standard GATK\n  pipeline.  We estimate the overall FDR to be 0.028 and the FNR (when\n  coverage exceeds 20X) to be 0.019 in the 50Y/50C mixture.\n  Interestingly, even with these relatively well studied individuals,\n  we predict over 475,000 new variants, validating in well-behaved\n  coding regions at a rate of 0.97, that were not included in the\n  published genotypes.', u'Background: Technological advances in DNA sequencing have made gene testing fast and more affordable. Evidence of cost-effectiveness of genetic service models is essential for successful translation, but remain sparse in the literature. In particular there is a lack of cost data related to genetic services. \n\nMethods: A detailed micro-costing of 28 pathways relating to breast and/or ovarian cancer and gene testing for the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes (termed \u2032BRCA testing\u2032) was carried out. These data were combined with patient-level data from a Royal Marsden Cancer Genetics Service audit during which BRCA testing was offered to individuals at \u226510% risk of having a mutation.  \n\nResults: The average cost across all pathways was &pound2,222.68 (range &pound376.47- &pound13,531.24). The average pathway cost for a person with cancer was &pound1897.71 compared to &pound2,403.22 for a person without cancer. Of the women seen during audit period, 38% were affected with breast and/or ovarian cancer and 62% were unaffected but concerned about their family history. \n\nConclusion: There is considerable variation in the costs of different gene testing pathways. Improved cost-efficiency could be achieved by increasing the proportion of cancer patients tested, because the pathway cost of an unaffected individual in whom testing has already been performed in a relative with cancer is considerably less.', u'Although a large number of methods have been proposed to control the non-linear dynamics of unstable populations, very few have been actually adopted for application. One reason for this gap is the fact that few control methods have been empirically verified using biological populations. To address this issue, we investigated the effects of two well-studied control methods (Both Limiter Control and Target-Oriented Control) on the dynamics of unstable populations of Drosophila melanogaster. We show that both methods can significantly reduce population fluctuations, decrease extinction probability and increase effective population size simultaneously. This is in contrast with single parameter control methods that are not able to achieve multiple aspects of stability at the same time. We use the distribution of population sizes to derive biologically intuitive explanations for the mechanisms of how these two control methods attain stability. Finally, we show that non-Drosophila specific biologically realistic simulations are able to capture almost all the trends of our data. This shows that our results are likely generalizable over a wide range of taxa. The primary insight of our study is that control methods that incorporate both culling and restocking have better all-round performance in terms of stabilizing populations.', u'Advances in RNA-seq technologies provide unprecedented insight into the variability and heterogeneity of gene expression at the single-cell level. However, such data offers only a snapshot of the transcriptome, whereas it is often the progression of cells through dynamic biological processes that is of interest. As a result, one outstanding challenge is to infer such progressions by ordering gene expression from single cell data alone, known as the cell ordering problem. Here, we introduce a new method that constructs a low-dimensional non-linear embedding of the data using laplacian eigenmaps before assigning each cell a pseudotime using principal curves. We characterise why on a theoretical level our method is more robust to the high levels of noise typical of single-cell RNA-seq data before demonstrating its utility on two existing datasets of differentiating cells.', u'Animals and plants have evolved a range of mechanisms for recognizing noxious substances and organisms. A particular challenge, most successfully met by the adaptive immune system in vertebrates, is the specific recognition of potential pathogens, which themselves evolve to escape recognition. A variety of genomic and evolutionary mechanisms shape large families of proteins dedicated to detecting pathogens and create the diversity of binding sites needed for epitope recognition. One family involved in innate immunity are the NACHT-domain-and Leucine-Rich-Repeat-containing (NLR) proteins. Mammals have a small number of NLR proteins, which are involved in first-line immune defense and recognize several conserved molecular patterns. However, there is no evidence that they cover a wider spectrum of differential pathogenic epitopes. In other species, mostly those without adaptive immune systems, NLRs have expanded into very large families. A family of nearly 400 NLR proteins is encoded in the zebrafish genome. They are subdivided into four groups defined by their NACHT and effector domains, with a characteristic overall structure that arose in fishes from a fusion of the NLR domains with a domain used for immune recognition, the B30.2 domain. The majority of the genes are located on one chromosome arm, interspersed with other large multi-gene families, including a new family encoding proteins with multiple tandem arrays of Zinc fingers. This chromosome arm may be a hot spot for evolutionary change in the zebrafish genome. NLR genes not on this chromosome tend to be located near chromosomal ends.\nExtensive duplication, loss of genes and domains, exon shuffling and gene conversion acting differentially on the NACHT and B30.2 domains have shaped the family. Its four groups, which are conserved across the fishes, are homogenised within each group by gene conversion, while the B30.2 domain is subject to gene conversion across the groups. Evidence of positive selection on diversifying mutations in the B30.2 domain, probably driven by pathogen interactions, indicates that this domain rather than the LRRs acts as a recognition domain. The NLR-B30.2 proteins represent a new family with diversity in the specific recognition module that is present in fishes in spite of the parallel existence of an adaptive immune system.', u'Spontaneous bursting activity in cultured neuronal networks is initiated by leader neurons, which constitute a small subset of first-to-fire neurons forming a sub-network that recruits follower neurons into the burst. While the existence and stability of leader neurons is well established, the influence of stimulation on the leader-follower dynamics is not sufficiently understood. By combining multi-electrode array recordings with whole field optical stimulation of cultured Channelrhodopsin-2 transduced hippocampal neurons, we show that fade-in photo-stimulation induces a significant shortening of intra-burst firing rate peak delay of fol-lower electrodes after offset of the stimulation compared to unperturbed spontaneous activity. Our study shows that optogenetic stimulation can be used to change the dynamical fine structure of self-organized network bursts.', u'Searching targets for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) treatment, we identified zinc finger protein 191 (ZNF191) as a suppressor against HCC metastasis. Over-expressing ZNF191 in HCC cells impaired cell motility, while ZNF191 depletion promoted HCC cell migration in vitro and metastasis in vivo through triggering yes-associated protein 1 (YAP1) signaling. Chromatin immunoprecipitation-sequencing (ChIP-seq) revealed that ZNF191 specifically bound to the promoter of Discs, Large homolog 1 (DLG1), a cell polarity maintainer and a negative regulator of YAP1. Double-knockdown experiments showed that DLG1 was not only the mediator of ZNF191 s function to suppress migration but also a link between ZNF191 and YAP1 signaling. ZNF191 was down-regulated in metastatic HCCs, correlating positively with DLG1 levels and inversely with YAP1 activation. Our findings indicate ZNF191 functions as a metastasis suppressor via DLG1-mediated YAP1 signaling inactivation.', u'Beneficial mutations fuel adaptation by altering phenotypes that enhance the fit of organisms to their environment. However, the phenotypic effects of mutations often depend on ecological context, making the distribution of effects across multiple environments essential to understanding the true nature of beneficial mutations. Studies that address both the genetic basis and ecological consequences of adaptive mutations remain rare. Here, we characterize the direct and pleiotropic fitness effects of a collection of 21 first-step beneficial mutants derived from naive and adapted genotypes used in a long-term experimental evolution of Escherichia coli. Whole-genome sequencing was used to identify most beneficial mutations. In contrast to previous studies, we find diverse fitness effects of mutations selected in a simple environment and few cases of genetic parallelism. The pleiotropic effects of these mutations were predominantly positive but some mutants were highly antagonistic in alternative environments. Further, the fitness effects of mutations derived from the adapted genotypes were dramatically reduced in nearly all environments. These findings suggest that many beneficial variants are accessible from a single point on the fitness landscape, and the fixation of alternative beneficial mutations may have dramatic consequences for niche breadth reduction via metabolic erosion.', u"Spatial organization of the genome is critical for condition-specific gene expression. Previous studies have shown that functionally related genes tend to be spatially proximal. However, these studies have not been extended to multiple human cell types, and the extent to which context-specific spatial proximity of a pathway is related to its context-specific activity is not known. We report the first pathway-centric analyses of spatial proximity in six human cell lines.  We find that spatial proximity of genes in a pathway tends to be context-specific, in a manner consistent with the pathway's context-specific expression and function; housekeeping genes are ubiquitously proximal to each other, and cancer-related pathways such as p53 signaling are uniquely proximal in hESC. Intriguingly, we find a correlation between the spatial proximity of genes and interactions of their protein products, even after accounting for the propensity of co-pathway proteins to interact. Related pathways are also often spatially proximal to one another, and housekeeping genes tend to be proximal to several other pathways suggesting their coordinating role. Further, the spatially proximal genes in a pathway tend to be the drivers of the pathway activity and are enriched for transcription, splicing and transport functions. Overall, our analyses reveal a pathway-centric organization of the 3D nucleome whereby functionally related and interacting genes, particularly the initial drivers of pathway activity, but also genes across multiple related pathways, are in spatial proximity in a context-specific way. Our results provide further insights into the role of differential spatial organization in cell type-specific pathway activity.", u'Cultural transmission of reproductive success states that successful men have more children and pass this raised fecundity to their offspring. Balaresque and colleagues found high frequency haplotypes in a Central Asian Y chromosome dataset, which they attribute to cultural transmission of reproductive success by prominent historical men, including Genghis Khan. Using coalescent simulation, we show that these high frequency haplotypes are consistent with a neutral model, where they commonly appear simply by chance. Hence, explanations invoking cultural transmission of reproductive success are statistically unnecessary.', u'Historical biogeography seeks to understand the distribution of biodiversity in space and time. The dispersal-extinction-cladogenesis (DEC) model, a likelihood-based model of geographic range evolution, is widely used in assessing the biogeography of clades. Robust inference of dispersal and local extinction parameters is crucial for biogeographic inference, and yet a major caveat to its use is that the DEC model severely underestimates local extinction. We suggest that this is mainly due to the way in which the model is constructed to allow observed species to transition into being present in no areas (i.e., null range). By prohibiting transitions into the null range in the transition rate matrix, we were able to better infer local extinction and support this with simulations. This modified model, DEC*, has higher model fit and model adequacy than DEC, suggesting this modification should be considered for DEC and other models of geographic range evolution.', u'DNA assembly is a core methodological step in metagenomic pipelines used to study the structure and function within microbial communities. Here we investigate the utility of Pacific Biosciences long and high accuracy circular consensus sequencing (CCS) reads for metagenomics projects. We compared the application and performance of both PacBio CCS and Illumina HiSeq data with assembly and taxonomic binning algorithms using metagenomic samples representing a complex microbial community. Eight SMRT cells produced approximately 94 Mb of CCS reads from a biogas reactor microbiome sample, which averaged 1319 nt in length and 99.7 % accuracy. CCS data assembly generated a comparative number of large contigs greater than 1 kb, to those assembled from a ~190x larger HiSeq dataset (~18 Gb) produced from the same sample (i.e approximately 62 % of total contigs). Hybrid assemblies using PacBio CCS and HiSeq contigs produced improvements in assembly statistics, including an increase in the average contig length and number of large contigs. The incorporation of CCS data produced significant enhancements in taxonomic binning and genome reconstruction of two dominant phylotypes, which assembled and binned poorly using HiSeq data alone. Collectively these results illustrate the value of PacBio CCS reads in certain metagenomics applications.', u'Single-cell phenotyping promises to yield insights into biological responses in heterogeneous cell populations.  We developed a method based on single-cell analysis to phenotype human induced pluripotent stem cells (hIPSC) by high-throughput imaging. Our method uses markers for morphology and pluripotency as well as social features to characterize perturbations using a meta-phenotype based on mapping single cells to distinct phenotypic classes. Analysis of perturbations on a single cell level enhances the applicability of human induced pluripotent stem cells (hIPSC) for screening experiments taking the inherently increased phenotypic variability of these cells into account. We adapted miniaturized culture conditions to allow for the utilization of hIPSC in RNA interference (RNAi) high-throughput screens and single cell phenotyping by image analysis. We identified key regulators of pluripotency in hIPSC masked in a population-averaged analysis and we confirmed several candidate genes (SMG1, TAF1) and assessed their effect on pluripotency.', u'There has been much interest in analyzing genome-scale DNA sequence data to infer population histories, but the inference methods developed hitherto are limited in model complexity and computational scalability.  Here, we present an efficient, flexible statistical method that can utilize whole-genome sequence data from multiple populations to infer complex demographic models involving population size changes, population splits, admixture, and migration.   We demonstrate through an extensive simulation study that our method can accurately and efficiently infer demographic parameters in realistic biological scenarios. The algorithms described here are implemented in a new version of the software package diCal, which is available for download at https://sourceforge.net/projects/dical2.', u'Single-cell transcriptome measurements are being applied at rapidly increasing scales to study cellular repertoires underpinning functions of complex tissues and organs, including mammalian brains. The transcriptional state of each cell, however, reflects a variety of biological factors, including persistent cell-type specific regulatory configurations, transient processes such as cell cycle, local metabolic demands, and extracellular signals. Depending on the biological setting, all such aspects of transcriptional heterogeneity can be of potential interest, but detecting complex heterogeneity structure from inherently uncertain single-cell data presents analytical challenges. We developed PAGODA to resolve multiple, potentially overlapping aspects of transcriptional heterogeneity by identifying known pathways or novel gene sets that show significant excess of coordinated variability among the measured cells. We demonstrate that PAGODA effectively recovers the subpopulations and their corresponding functional characteristics in a variety of single-cell samples, and use it to characterize transcriptional diversity of neuronal progenitors in the developing mouse cortex', u'We present a method to identify approximately independent blocks of linkage disequilibrium (LD) in the human genome. These blocks enable automated analysis of multiple genome-wide association studies.', u'Mutation is the ultimate source of all genetic variation and is, therefore, central to evolutionary change.  Previous work on the ciliate Paramecium tetraurelia concluded that the presence of a transcriptionally silent germline genome has caused the evolution of a low base-substitution mutation rate in the germline genome of that ciliate. Here, we use mutation accumulation (MA) lines of the ciliate Tetrahymena thermophila to test the generality of this result. We find that both ciliates have similar base-substitution mutation rates in their germline genomes. The estimated base-substitution mutation rate cannot account for the observed fitness decline of the MA lines of T. thermophila, suggesting that it may have been caused other types of mutations.', u'Across plants, leaves exhibit profound diversity in shape. As a single leaf expands, its shape is in constant flux. Plants may also produce leaves with different shapes at successive nodes. Additionally, leaf shape varies among individuals, populations, and species due to evolutionary processes and environmental influences. \n\nBecause leaf shape can vary in many different ways, theoretically the effects of distinct developmental and evolutionary processes are separable, even within the shape of a single leaf.  Here, we measure the shapes of >3,200 leaves representing >270 vines from wild relatives of domesticated grape (Vitis spp.) to determine if leaf shapes attributable to genetics and development are separable from each other.\n\nWe isolate latent shapes (multivariate signatures that vary independently from each other) embedded within the overall shape of leaves. These latent shapes can predict developmental stages independent from species identity and vice versa. Shapes predictive of development are then used to stage leaves from 1,200 varieties of domesticated grape (Vitis vinifera), revealing that changes in timing underlie leaf shape diversity. \n\nOur results indicate distinct latent shapes combine to produce a composite morphology in leaves, and that developmental and evolutionary contributions to shape vary independently from each other.', u'Diffantom is a whole-brain digital phantom generated from a dataset from the Human Connectome Project. Diffantom is presented here to be openly and freely distributed along with the diffantomizer workflow to generate new diffantoms. We encourage the neuroimage community to contribute with their own diffantoms and share them openly.', u'Whole genome sequencing using high-throughput sequencing (HTS) technologies offers powerful opportunities to study genetic variation. Mapping the mutations responsible for different phenotypes is generally an involved and time-consuming process so researchers have developed user-friendly tools for mapping-by-sequencing, yet they are not applica- ble to organisms with non-sequenced genomes. We introduce SDM (SNP Distribution Method), a reference independent method for rapid discovery of mutagen-induced muta- tions in typical forward genetic screens. SDM aims to order a disordered collection of HTS reads or contigs such that the fragment carrying the causative mutation can be identified. SDM uses typical distributions of homozygous SNPs that are linked to a phenotype-altering SNP in a non-recombinant region as a model to order the fragments. To implement and test SDM, we created model genomes with an idealised SNP density based on Arabidop- sis thaliana chromosome 1 and analysed fragments with size distribution similar to reads or contigs assembled from HTS sequencing experiments. SDM groups the contigs by their normalised SNP density and arranges them to maximise the fit to the expected SNP distribution. We tested the procedure in existing datasets by examining SNP distributions in recent out-cross and back-cross experiments in Arabidopsis thaliana backgrounds. In all the examples we analysed, homozygous SNPs were normally distributed around the causal mutation. We used the real SNP densities obtained from these experiments to prove the efficiency and accuracy of SDM. The algorithm was able to successfully identify small sized (10-100 kb) genomic regions containing the causative mutation.', u'Single-cell genomics has revolutionised modern biology while requiring the development of advanced computational and statistical methods. Advances have been made in uncovering gene expression heterogeneity, discovering new cell types and novel identification of genes and transcription factors involved in cellular processes. One such approach to the analysis is to construct pseudotime orderings of cells as they progress through a particular biological process, such as cell-cycle or differentiation. These methods assign a score - known as the pseudotime - to each cell  as a surrogate measure of progression. However, all published methods to date are purely algorithmic and lack any way to give uncertainty to the pseudotime assigned to a cell. Here we present a method that combines Gaussian Process Latent Variable Models (GP-LVM) with a recently published electroGP prior  to perform Bayesian inference on the pseudotimes. We go on to show that the posterior variability in these pseudotimes leads to nontrivial uncertainty in the pseudo-temporal ordering of the cells and that pseudotimes should not be thought of as point estimates.', u"Changes in gene regulation have long been known to play important roles in both innate and adaptive immune responses. However, post-transcriptional mechanisms involved in mRNA processing have been poorly studied despite emerging examples of their role as regulators of immune defenses. We sought to investigate the role of mRNA processing in the cellular responses of human macrophages to live bacterial infections. We used mRNA-sequencing to quantify gene expression and isoform abundances in primary macrophages from 60 individuals, before and after infection with Listeria monocytogenes and Salmonella typhimurium. We show that immune responses to infection are accompanied by pervasive changes in isoform usage that lead to an overall increase in isoform diversity after infection. In response to both bacteria, we see global shifts towards (i) the inclusion of cassette exons and (ii) shorter 3' UTRs, with near-universal shifts towards usage of more upstream polyadenylation sites. Using individual-specific variation in RNA processing, we identify candidate splicing factors putatively regulating these post-infection patterns in trans. Finally, by profiling microRNA levels, we further show that 3' UTR regions with reduced abundance after infection are significantly enriched for target sites for specific miRNAs - including miR-146b, miR-3661, miR-151b, and miR-125a - that are up-regulated following infection. These results suggest that the prominent shift towards shorter 3' UTRs might be a cellular control mechanism to escape repression by immune-activated miRNAs. Overall, our results support concerted regulation of transcription and RNA processing in the control of gene regulatory programs engaged in the response to immune stressors.", u'Background\nA complete genome sequence and the advent of genome editing open up non-traditional model organisms to mechanistic genetic studies. The mosquito Aedes aegypti is an important vector of infectious diseases such as dengue, chikungunya, and yellow fever, and has a large and complex genome, which has slowed annotation efforts. We used comprehensive transcriptomic analysis of adult gene expression to improve the genome annotation and to provide a detailed tissue-specific catalogue of neural gene expression at different adult behavioral states.\n\nResults\nWe carried out deep RNA sequencing across all major peripheral male and female sensory tissues, the brain, and (female) ovary. Furthermore, we examined gene expression across three important phases of the female reproductive cycle, a remarkable example of behavioral switching in which a female mosquito alternates between obtaining blood-meals from humans and laying eggs. Using genome-guided alignments and de novo transcriptome assembly, our re-annotation includes 572 new putative protein-coding genes and updates to 13.5% and 50.3% of existing transcripts within coding sequences and untranslated regions, respectively. Using this updated annotation, we detail gene expression in each tissue, identifying large numbers of transcripts regulated by blood-feeding and sexually dimorphic transcripts that may provide clues to the biology of male- and female-specific behaviors, such as mating and blood-feeding, which are areas of intensive study for those interested in vector control.\n\nConclusions\nThis neurotranscriptome forms a strong foundation for the study of genes in the mosquito nervous system and investigation of sensory-driven behaviors and their regulation. Furthermore, understanding the molecular genetic basis of mosquito chemosensory behavior has important implications for vector control.', u'Survival in aquatic environments requires organisms to have effective means of collecting information from their surroundings through various sensing strategies. In this study, we explore how sensing mode and range depend on body size. We find a hierarchy of sensing modes  determined by body size. With increasing body size, a larger battery of modes becomes available (chemosensing, mechanosensing, vision, hearing, and echolocation, in that order) while the sensing range also increases.\nThis size-dependent hierarchy and the transitions between primary sensory modes are explained on the grounds of limiting factors set by physiology and the physical laws governing signal generation, transmission and reception. We theoretically predict the body size limits for various sensory modes, which align well with size ranges found in literature. The treatise of all ocean life, from unicellular organisms to whales, demonstrates how body size determines available sensing modes, and thereby acts as a major structuring factor of aquatic life.', u"Motivation: Genome browsers that support fast navigation and interactive visual analytics can help scientists achieve deeper insight into large-scale genomic data sets more quickly, thus accelerating the discovery process. Toward this end, we developed Integrated Genome Browser (IGB), a highly configurable, interactive and fast open source desktop genome browser. \nResults: Here we describe multiple updates to IGB, including all-new capability to display and interact with data from high-throughput sequencing experiments. To demonstrate, we describe example visualizations and analyses of data sets from RNA-Seq, ChIP-Seq, and bisulfite sequencing experiments. Understanding results from genome-scale experiments requires viewing the data in the context of reference genome annotations and other related data sets. To facilitate this, we enhanced IGB's ability to consume data from diverse sources, including Galaxy, Distributed Annotation, and IGB-specific Quickload servers. To support future visualization needs as new genome-scale assays enter wide use, we transformed the IGB codebase into a modular, extensible platform for developers to create and deploy all-new visualizations of genomic data.  \nAvailability: IGB is open source and is freely available from http://bioviz.org/igb.", u'Recent advances in high-throughput technologies have facilitated the profiling of large panels of cancer cell lines with responses measured for thousands of drugs. The computational challenge is now to realize the potential of these data in predicting patients responses to these drugs in the clinic. We address this issue by examining the spectrum of prediction models of patient response: models predicting directly from cell lines, those predicting directly from patients, and those trained on cell lines and patients at the same time. We tested 21 classification models on four drugs (bortezomib, erlotinib, docetaxel and epirubicin) for which clinical trial data were available. Our integrative models consistently outperform cell line-based predictors, indicating that there are limitations to the predictive potential of in vitro data alone. Furthermore, these integrative models achieve better predictive accuracy and require substantially fewer patients than would be the case if only patient data were available. Altogether our results support the relevance of preclinical data for therapy prediction in clinical trials, enabling more efficient and cost-effective trial design.', u'Admixture-introduced linkage disequilibrium (LD) has recently been introduced into the inference of the histories of complex admixtures. However, the influence of ancestral source populations on the LD pattern in admixed populations is not properly taken into consideration by currently available methods, which affects the estimation of several gene flow parameters from empirical data. We first illustrated the dynamic changes of LD in admixed populations and mathematically formulated the LD under a generalized admixture model with finite population size. We next developed a new method, MALDmef, by fitting LD with multiple exponential functions for inferring and dating multiple-wave admixtures. MALDmef takes into account the effects of source populations which substantially affect modeling LD in admixed population, which renders it capable of efficiently detecting and dating multiple-wave admixture events. The performance of MALDmef was evaluated by simulation and it was shown to be more accurate than MALDER, a state-of-the-art method that was recently developed for similar purposes, under various admixture models. We further applied MALDmef to analyzing genome-wide data from the Human Genome Diversity Project (HGDP) and the HapMap Project. Interestingly, we were able to identify more than one admixture events in several populations, which have yet to be reported. For example, two major admixture events were identified in the Xinjiang Uyghur, occurring around 27???30 generations ago and 182???195 generations ago, respectively. In an African population (MKK), three recent major admixtures occurring 13???16, 50???67, and 107???139 generations ago were detected. Our method is a considerable improvement over other current methods and further facilitates the inference of the histories of complex population admixtures.', u"Changes in community composition resulting from climate change entail modifications of biotic interactions and reshape local species distributions. Such changes are currently occurring in nettle-feeding butterflies in Sweden where Araschnia levana has recently expanded its range northward and is now likely to interact with the resident species (Aglais urticae and Aglais io). Butterfly occurrence data collected over years and across regions enabled us to investigate how a recent range expansion of A. levana may have affected the environmental niche of resident species.\n\nWe focused on two regions of Sweden (Sk\xe5ne and Norrstr\xf6m) where A. levana has and has not established, and two time-periods (2001-2006, 2009-2012) corresponding to before and after its establishment.\n \nWe performed two distinct analyses in each region using the PCA-env and the framework described in Broennimann et al. (2012). We first described the main sources of variation in the environment. Second, we characterized, in each time-period and region, the realized niches of our focal species across topographic and land use gradients. Third, we quantified overlaps and differences in realized niches between and within species over time.\n\nWe found indications of niche partitioning between native species, although niche differentiation was not clearly associated to specific environmental factors. Looking over time, we found a larger shift in species distributions of the resident species in Sk\xe5ne than in Norrstr\xf6m. These shifts showed a consistent pattern of avoiding overlap with the environmental space occupied by A. levana, and it was stronger for A. urticae than for A. io.\n\nInterspecific interactions play a role in shaping species distributions. It seemed clear that the range expansion of A. levana modified local biotic interactions, and potentially induced shifts in resident species' distribution. We suggest that parasite-driven apparent competition may mediate niche partitioning in this community.", u'Hybridization is known to occur in a wide range of avian species, yet the rate and persistence of hybridization on populations is often hard to assess. Genotyping using variable genetic marker sets has become a common tool to identify hybrid individuals, however assignment outputs can differ depending on the marker set used. Here, we study hybrid assignment in two sibling Hippolais warblers, where hybrid assignment has shown to differ between SSR and AFLP markers. Simulation of heterospecific individuals as well as backcrosses (typed using SSR markers) reveals a rapid loss of assignment probability in higher backcross generations. However, the characterization of F1 hybrids was clearly distinguished from both parental taxa. The differences in marker sets are not contradictory but complementary. The rate of hybridization is lower than previously expected with AFLP markers but introgression might be long-lasting. This could be either due to differences in power of the marker systems used or due to non-neutral variation covered by AFLP but not SSR markers. We call for more attention to be paid regarding the potential limits of classical marker systems to investigate hybridization and its persistence in natural systems.', u'Determining the methylation state of regions with high copy numbers is challenging for second-generation sequencing, because the read length is insufficient to map reads uniquely, especially when repetitive regions are long and nearly identical to each other. Single-molecule real-time (SMRT) sequencing is a promising method for observing such regions, because it is not vulnerable to GC bias, it performs long read lengths, and its kinetic information is sensitive to DNA modifications. We propose a novel algorithm that combines the kinetic information for neighboring CpG sites and increases the confidence in identifying the methylation states of those sites. Both the sensitivity and precision of our algorithm were \u223c93.7% on CpG site basis for the genome of an inbred medaka (Oryzias latipes) strain within a practical read coverage of \u223c30-fold. The method is quantitatively accurate because we observed a high correlation coefficient (R = 0.884) between our method and bisulfite sequencing, and 92.0% of CpG sites were in concordance within 0.25. Using this method, we characterized the landscape of the methylation status of repetitive elements, such as LINEs, in the human genome, thereby revealing the strong correlation between CpG density and unmethylation and detecting unmethylation hot spots of LTRs and LINEs. We could uncover the methylation states for nearly identical active transposons, two novel LINE insertions of identity \u223c99% and length 6050 base pairs (bp) in the human genome, and sixteen Tol2 elements of identity >99.8% and length 4682 bp in the medaka genome.', u'For several species, refuges (such as burrows, dens, roosts, nests) are an essential\nresource for protection from predators and extreme environmental conditions. Refuges also serve as focal sites of social interactions including mating, courtship and aggression. Knowledge of refuge use patterns can therefore provide information about social structure as well mating and foraging success of wildlife populations, especially for species considered to be relatively solitary. In this study, we sought to (a) infer social associations of the desert tortoise through their asynchronous burrow associations, and (b) provide mechanisms behind individual-level variation in burrow use networks using a model of burrow switching (to describe variation in tortoise behavior) and\nburrow popularity (to describe variation from the perspective of burrows). Although considered to be relatively solitary, we found tortoise social networks to be significantly different than null networks of random associations, with geographical locations having a moderate influence on tortoises associations. Seasonal variation and local tortoise/burrow density had a strong impact on individual\u2032s burrow switching behavior. Among the three population stressors included in the model (translocation, drought, disease), translocation had the largest effect on burrow switching. Analysis of variation in burrow popularity revealed older burrows and burrows at rough higher elevation\nsites are more popular than other burrows in desert tortoise habitat. Our study emphasizes the role of combining graph theoretic and statistical approaches to examine the social structure of (relatively) solitary species to design effective conservation and management strategies including control of future infection spread.', u'Abstract Existing models of parental investment have mainly focused on interactions at the level of the family, and have paid much less attention to the impact of population-level processes. Here we extend classical models of parental care to assess the impact of population structure and limited dispersal. We find that sex-differences in dispersal substantially affect the amount of care provided by each parent, with the more philopatric sex providing the majority of the care to young. This effect is most pronounced in highly viscous populations: in such cases, when classical models would predict stable biparental care, inclusion of a modest sex difference in dispersal leads to uniparental care by the philopatric sex. In addition, mating skew also affects sex-differences in parental investment, with the more numerous sex providing most of the care. However, the effect of mating skew only holds when parents care for their own offspring. When individuals breed communally, we recover the previous finding that the more philopatric sex provides most of the care, even when it is the rare sex. Finally, we show that sex-differences in dispersal can mask the existence of sex-specific costs of care, because the philopatric sex may provide most of the care even in the face of far higher mortality costs relative to the dispersing sex. We conclude that sex-biased dispersal is likely to be an important, yet currently overlooked driver of sex-differences in parental care.', u'Various initiatives to identify global priority areas for conservation have been developed over the last 20 years (e.g. Biodiversity Hotspots). However, translating this information to actionable local scales has proven to be a major task, highlighting the necessity of efforts to bridge the global-scale priority areas with local-based conservation actions. Furthermore, as these global priority areas are increasingly threatened by climate change and by the loss and alteration of their natural habitats, developing additional efforts to identify priority areas for restoration activities is becoming an urgent task. In this study we used a Spatial Multi-Criteria Decision Analysis (SMCDA) approach to help optimize the selection of sites for restoration initiatives of two endemic threatened flora species of the \u2033Chilean Winter Rainfall-Valdivian Forest\u2033 Hotspot. Our approach takes advantage of freely GIS software, niche modeling tools, and available geospatial databases, in an effort to provide an affordable methodology to bridge global-scale priority areas with local actionable restoration scales. We used a set of weighting scenarios to evaluate the potential effects of short-term vs long-term planning perspective in prioritization results. The generated SMCDA was helpful for evaluating, identifying and prioritizing best suitable areas for restoration of the assessed species. The method proved to be simple, transparent, cost effective and flexible enough to be easily replicable on different ecosystems. This approach could be useful for prioritizing regional-scale areas for species restoration in Chile, as well as in other countries with restricted budgets for conservation efforts.', u'The present study was carried out to assess the distribution and current status of the West-Indian manatee Trichechus manatus, in Lake Gatun, the main body of water in the Panama Canal. We used four different methodologies: interviews, revision review of documents, aquatic and aerial surveys. Forty-four interviews carried out between March and July 2007 revealed 59 manatee sightings. Official documents revealed 19 manatee deaths between 1995 and 2008, while three aerial surveys yielded a total of 28 manatee sightings, including four calves . Mortality was not uncommon but the main causes remain speculative. Underwater detonations and collisions with transoceanic vessels could have a large impact on this small, closed population. Our results show that the manatee population in the Panama Canal is larger than previously considered, and that a combination of methodologies is best when assessing cryptic species over a large area with variable depth and turbidity. We recommend further studies use a combination of similar techniques in order to make sound management decisions about this unique manatee population.', u"The impact of environment on human health is dramatic, with major risk factors including substance use, diet and exercise. However, identifying interactions between the environment and an individual's genetic background (GxE) has been hampered by statistical and computational challenges. By combining RNA sequencing of whole blood and extensive environmental annotations collected from 922 individuals, we have evaluated GxE interactions at a cellular level. We have developed EAGLE, a hierarchical Bayesian model for identifying GxE interactions based on association between environment and allele-specific expression (ASE). EAGLE increases power by leveraging the controlled, within-sample comparison of environmental impact on different genetic backgrounds provided by ASE, while also taking into account technical covariates and over-dispersion of sequencing read counts.  EAGLE identifies 35 GxE interactions, a substantial increase over standard GxE testing.  Among EAGLE hits are variants that modulate response to smoking, exercise and blood pressure medication. Further, application of EAGLE identifies GxE interactions to infection response that replicate results reported in vitro, demonstrating the power of EAGLE to accurately identify GxE candidates from large RNA sequencing studies.", u'The role played by interlayer connections in shaping local responses and their\nlong-range coupling has not yet been fully elucidated. Here, we analyze a rate model of\na canonic local circuit with realistic anatomy. We find that this circuit generates a rich\nrepertoire of possible dynamical states, including an oscillatory regime in which gammaand\nbeta-oscillations dominate in superficial and deep layers, respectively, in agreement\nwith experimental observations. This regime stems from non-linear inter-layer\ninteractions, independently from intrinsic resonance properties of distinct layers.\nMoreover, by connecting two local circuits via cortico-cortical projections, the emergent\nphase differences define a flexible and frequency-dependent inter-areal hierarchy. Such\ndynamic patterns generally do not arise in randomized circuits, and the compatible\nconnectomes are rare, although not unique. Altogether, these results suggest that\ninter-layer connectivity is homeostatically regulated to make local circuits fit to\nintegrate and multiplex signals from several sources in multiple frequency bands.', u'Tuning curves are the functions that relate the responses of sensory neurons to various\nvalues within one continuous stimulus dimension (such as the orientation of a bar in the\nvisual domain or the frequency of a tone in the auditory domain). They are commonly\ndetermined by fitting a model e.g. a Gaussian or other bell-shaped curves to the\nmeasured responses to a small subset of discrete stimuli in the relevant dimension.\nHowever, as neuronal responses are irregular and experimental measurements noisy, it is\noften difficult to determine reliably the appropriate model from the data. We illustrate\nthis general problem by fitting diverse models to representative recordings from area\nMT in rhesus monkey visual cortex during multiple attentional tasks involving complex\ncomposite stimuli. We find that all models can be well-fitted, that the best model\ngenerally varies between neurons and that statistical comparisons between neuronal\nresponses across different experimental conditions are affected quantitatively and\nqualitatively by specific model choices. As a robust alternative to an often arbitrary\nmodel selection, we introduce a model-free approach, in which features of interest are\nextracted directly from the measured response data without the need of fitting any\nmodel. In our attentional datasets, we demonstrate that data-driven methods provide\ndescriptions of tuning curve features such as preferred stimulus direction or attentional\ngain modulations which are in agreement with fit-based approaches when a good fit\nexists. Furthermore, these methods naturally extend to the frequent cases of uncertain\nmodel selection. We show that model-free approaches can identify attentional\nmodulation patterns, such as general alterations of the irregular shape of tuning curves,\nwhich cannot be captured by fitting stereotyped conventional models. Finally, by\ncomparing datasets across different conditions, we demonstrate effects of attention that\nare cell- and even stimulus-specific. Based on these proofs-of-concept, we conclude that\nour data-driven methods can reliably extract relevant tuning information from neuronal\nrecordings, including cells whose seemingly haphazard response curves defy conventional\nfitting approaches.', u'Scientific publications enable results and ideas to be transmitted throughout the scientific community. The number and type of journal publications also have become the primary criteria used in evaluating career advancement. Our analysis suggests that publication practices have changed considerably in the life sciences over the past thirty years. More experimental data is now required for publication, and the average time required for graduate students to publish their first paper has increased and is approaching the desirable duration of Ph.D. training. Since publication is generally a requirement for career progression, schemes to reduce the time of graduate student and postdoctoral training may be difficult to implement without also considering new mechanisms for accelerating communication of their work. The increasing time to publication also delays potential catalytic effects that ensue when many scientists have access to new information. The time has come for life scientists, funding agencies, and publishers to discuss how to communicate new findings in a way that best serves the interests of the public and the scientific community.', u'Background: In 2012, two large pharmacogenomic studies, the Genomics of Drug Sensitivity in Cancer (GDSC) and Cancer Cell Line Encyclopedia (CCLE), were published, each reported gene expression data and measures of drug response for a large number of drugs and hundreds of cell lines. In 2013, we published a comparative analysis that reported gene expression profiles for the 471 cell lines profiled in both studies and dose response measurements for the 15 drugs characterized in the  common cell lines by both studies. While we found good concordance in gene expression profiles, there was substantial inconsistency in the drug responses reported by the GDSC and CCLE projects. Our paper was widely discussed and we received extensive feedback on the comparisons that we performed. This feedback, along with the release of new data, prompted us to revisit our initial analysis. Here we present a new analysis using these expanded data in which we address the most significant suggestions for improvements on our published analysis: that drugs with different response characteristics should have been treated differently, that targeted therapies and broad cytotoxic drugs should have been treated differently in assessing consistency, that consistency of both molecular profiles and drug sensitivity measurements should both be compared across cell lines to accurately assess differences in the studies, that we missed some biomarkers that are consistent between studies, and that the software analysis tools we provided with our analysis should have been easier to run, particularly as the GDSC and CCLE released additional data.\n\nMethods: For each drug, we used published sensitivity data from the GDSC and CCLE to separately estimate drug dose-response curves. We then used two statistics, the area between drug dose-response curves (ABC) and the Matthews correlation coefficient (MCC), to robustly estimate the consistency of continuous and discrete drug sensitivity measures, respectively. We also used recently released RNA-seq data together with previously published gene expression microarray data to assess inter-platform reproducibility of cell line gene expression profiles. \n\nResults: This re-analysis supports our previous finding that gene expression data are significantly more consistent than drug sensitivity measurements. The use of new statistics to assess data consistency allowed us to identify two broad effect drugs -- 17-AAG and PD-0332901 -- and three targeted drugs -- PLX4720, nilotinib and crizotinib -- with moderate to good consistency in drug sensitivity data between GDSC and CCLE. Not enough sensitive cell lines were screened in both studies to robustly assess consistency for three other targeted drugs, PHA-665752, erlotinib, and sorafenib. Concurring with our published results, we found evidence of inconsistencies in pharmacological phenotypes for the remaining eight drugs. Further, to discover "consistency" between studies required the use of multiple statistics and the selection of specific measures on a case-by-case basis.\n\nConclusion: Our results reaffirm our initial findings of an inconsistency in drug sensitivity measures for eight of fifteen drugs screened both in GDSC and CCLE, irrespective of which statistical metric was used to assess correlation. Taken together, our findings suggest that the phenotypic data on drug response in the GDSC and CCLE continue to present challenges for robust biomarker discovery. This re-analysis provides additional support for the argument that experimental standardization and validation of pharmacogenomic response will be necessary to advance the broad use of large pharmacogenomic screens.', u'Barley was introduced to North America ~400 years ago but adaptation to modern production environments is more recent. Comparisons of allele frequencies among different growth habits and inflorescence types in North America indicate significant genetic differentiation has accumulated in a relatively short evolutionary time span. Allele frequency differentiation is greatest among barley with two-row versus six-row inflorescences, and then by spring versus winter growth habit. Large changes in allele frequency among breeding programs suggest a major contribution of genetic drift and linked selection on genetic variation. Despite this, comparisons of 3,613 modern North American cultivated breeding lines that differ for row type and growth habit permit the discovery of 183 SNP outliers putatively linked to targets of selection. For example, SNPs within the Cbf4, Ppd-H1, and Vrn-H1 loci which have previously been associated with agronomically-adaptive phenotypes, are identified as outliers. Analysis of extended haplotype-sharing identifies genomic regions shared within and among breeding programs, suggestive of a number of genomic regions subject to recent selection. Finally, we are able to identify recent bouts of gene flow between breeding programs that could point to the sharing of agronomically-adaptive variation. These results are supported by pedigrees and breeders understanding of germplasm sharing.', u"The long-held principle that functionally important proteins evolve slowly has recently been challenged by studies in mice and yeast showing that the severity of a protein knockout only weakly predicts that protein's rate of evolution. However, the relevance of these studies to evolutionary changes within proteins is unknown, because amino acid substitutions, unlike knockouts, often only slightly perturb protein activity. To quantify the phenotypic effect of small biochemical perturbations, we developed an approach to use computational systems biology models to measure the influence of individual reaction rate constants on network dynamics. We show that this dynamical influence is predictive of protein domain evolutionary rate in vertebrates and yeast, even after controlling for expression level and breadth, network topology, and knockout effect. Thus, our results not only demonstrate the importance of protein domain function in determining evolutionary rate, but also the power of systems biology modeling to uncover unanticipated evolutionary forces.", u"B and T cells expand clonally in response to pathogenic infection, and their descendants, which share the same receptor sequence, can persist for years, forming the basis of immunological memory. While most T cell receptor (TCR) sequences are seen very rarely, 'public' TCRs are present in many individuals. \nUsing a combination of high throughput immunosequencing, statistical association of particular TCRs with disease status, and machine learning, we identified of a set of public TCRs that discriminates cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection status with high accuracy. This pathogen-specific diagnostic tool uses a very general assay that relies only on a training cohort coupled with immunosequencing and sophisticated data analysis. Since all memory T cell responses are encoded in the common format of somatic TCR rearrangements, a key advantage of reading T cell memory to predict disease status is that this approach should apply to a wide variety of diseases. The underlying dataset is the largest collection of TCRs ever published, including ~300 gigabases of sequencing data and ~85 million unique TCRs across 640 HLA-typed individuals, which constitutes by far the largest such collection ever published. We expect these data to be a valuable public resource for researchers studying the TCR repertoire.", u'We present an open source package for performing evolutionary quantitative genetics analyses in the R environment for statistical computing. Evolutionary theory shows that evolution depends critically on the available variation in a given population. When dealing with many quantitative traits this variation is expressed in the form of a covariance matrix, particularly the additive genetic covariance matrix or sometimes the phenotypic matrix, when the genetic matrix is unavailable. Given this mathematical representation of available variation, the EvolQG package provides functions for calculation of relevant evolutionary statistics, estimation of sampling error, corrections for this error, matrix comparison via correlations and distances, and functions for testing evolutionary hypotheses on taxa diversification.', u'Evolutionary relationships are described by phylogenetic trees, but a central barrier in many fields is the difficulty of interpreting data containing conflicting phylogenetic signals. Obtaining credible trees that capture the relationships present in complex data is one of the fundamental challenges in evolution today. We present a way to map trees which extracts distinct alternative evolutionary relationships embedded in data and resolves phylogenetic uncertainty. Our method reveals a remarkably distinct phylogenetic signature in the VP30 gene of Ebolavirus, indicating possible recombination with significant implications for vaccine development. Moving to higher organisms, we use our approach to detect alternative histories of the evolution of anole lizards. Our approach has the capacity to resolve key areas of uncertainty in the study of evolution, and to broaden the credibility and appeal of phylogenetic methods.', u'Sea lice (Lepeophtheirus salmonis) are a significant source of monetary losses on salmon farms. Sea lice exhibit temperature-dependent development rates and salinity-dependent mortality, but to date no deterministic models have incorporated these seasonally varying factors. To understand how environmental variation and life history characteristics affect sea lice abundance, we derive a delay differential equation model and parameterize the model with environmental data from British Columbia and southern Newfoundland. We calculate the lifetime reproductive output for female sea lice maturing to adulthood at different times of the year and find differences in the timing of peak reproduction between the two regions. Using a sensitivity analysis, we find that sea lice abundance is more sensitive to variation in mean annual water temperature and mean annual salinity than to variation in life history parameters. Our results suggest that effective sea lice management requires consideration of site-specific temperature and salinity patterns and, in particular, that the optimal timing of production cycles and sea lice treatments might vary between regions.', u"The striatum is an input structure of the basal ganglia implicated in several time-dependent functions including reinforcement learning, decision making, and interval timing. To determine whether striatal ensembles drive subjects' judgments of duration, we manipulated and recorded from striatal neurons in rats performing a duration categorization psychophysical task. We found that the dynamics of striatal neurons predicted duration judgments, and that simultaneously recorded ensembles could judge duration as well as the animal. Furthermore, striatal neurons were necessary for duration judgments, as muscimol infusions produced a specific impairment in animals' duration sensitivity. Lastly, we show that time as encoded by striatal populations ran faster or slower when rats judged a duration as longer or shorter, respectively. These results demonstrate that the speed with which striatal population state changes supports the fundamental ability of animals to judge the passage of time.", u'We introduce Pyvolve, a flexible Python module for simulating genetic data along a phylogeny using continuous-time Markov models of sequence evolution. Easily incorporated into Python bioinformatics pipelines, Pyvolve can simulate sequences according to most standard models of nucleotide, amino-acid, and codon sequence evolution. All model parameters are fully customizable. Users can additionally specify custom evolutionary models, with custom rate matrices and/or states to evolve. This flexibility makes Pyvolve a convenient framework not only for simulating sequences under a wide variety of conditions, but also for developing and testing new evolutionary models. Pyvolve is an open-source project under a FreeBSD license, and it is available for download, along with a detailed user-manual and example scripts, from http://github.com/sjspielman/pyvolve.', u'The cardinal feature of conditioned taste aversion (CTA) learning is the ability of animals to associate the taste or flavor of a food (the conditioned stimulus; CS) with a subsequent toxic effect (unconditioned stimulus; US), even if the toxicity occurs hours later, i.e. after a long delay.   Two experiments were conducted which took advantage of the stimulus control afforded by intraoral catheterization to establish the parameters of long-delay learning in intraoral CTA. First, to determine the range of CS-US intervals which supports intraoral conditioning, rats received infusions of 5% sucrose paired with LiCl (76 mg/kg, ip) across a range of delays (0-6 h). Second, to determine the interaction of US dose and delay, rats were conditioned with sucrose paired with different doses of LiCl (19, 38 or 76 mg/kg) at several CS-US intervals (0, 10, or 60 min).  Conditioning, assessed during a second infusion of sucrose at 48 h post-conditioning, was optimal at 10 min (although not significantly different at intervals between 0 and 60 min). Effectiveness declined at longer delays, such that CTA was not supported at intervals of 3h or greater. The dose-interval function suggested that an increased US can compensate for a longer CS-US interval.  Low doses of LiCl induced a long-term CTA  at 0-min  (19 and 38 mg/kg) or 10-min delays (38 mg/kg), but were not sufficient to induce CTA at longer delays, which required the highest dose (76 mg/kg).', u'The realisation that heterozygosity can be heritable has recently generated some elegant research. However, none of this work has discussed the fact that when heterozygote advantage occurs, heterozygosity can be heritable, yet allele frequencies remain at equilibrium and do not evolve with time. From a quantitative genetic perspective this means the character is heritable, is under selection, yet no response to selection is observed. We explain why this is the case, and discuss potential implications for the study of evolution in the wild.', u'Phylogenetic trees are central to many areas of biology, ranging from population genetics and epidemiology to microbiology, ecology, and macroevolution. The ability to summarize properties of trees, compare different trees, and identify distinct modes of division within trees is essential to all these research areas. But despite wide-ranging applications, there currently exists no common, comprehensive framework for such analyses. Here we present a graph-theoretical approach that provides such a framework. We show how to construct the spectral density profiles of phylogenetic trees from their Laplacian graphs. Using ultrametric simulated trees as well as non-ultrametric empirical trees, we demonstrate that the spectral density successfully identifies various properties of the trees and clusters them into meaningful groups. Finally, we illustrate how the eigengap can identify modes of division within a given tree. As phylogenetic data continue to accumulate and to be integrated into various areas of the life sciences, we expect that this spectral graph-theoretical framework to phylogenetics will have powerful and long-lasting applications.', u'Cnidaria, the sister group to Bilateria, is a highly diverse group of animals in terms of morphology, lifecycles, ecology, and development. How this diversity originated and evolved is not well understood because phylogenetic relationships among major cnidarian lineages are unclear, and recent studies present contrasting phylogenetic hypotheses. Here, we use transcriptome data from 15 newly-sequenced species in combination with 26 publicly available genomes and transcriptomes to assess phylogenetic relationships among major cnidarian lineages. Phylogenetic analyses using different partition schemes and models of molecular evolution, as well as topology tests for alternative phylogenetic relationships, support the monophyly of Medusozoa, Anthozoa, Octocorallia, Hydrozoa, and a clade consisting of Staurozoa, Cubozoa, and Scyphozoa. Support for the monophyly of Hexacorallia is weak due to the equivocal position of Ceriantharia. Taken together, these results further resolve deep cnidarian relationships, largely support traditional phylogenetic views on relationships, and provide a historical framework for studying the evolutionary processes involved in one of the most ancient animal radiations.', u'Species often encounter, and adapt to, many patches of locally similar environmental conditions across their range.  Such adaptation can occur through convergent evolution if different alleles arise and spread in different patches, or through the spread of shared alleles by migration acting to synchronize adaptation across the species.  The tension between the two reflects the degree of constraint imposed on evolution by the underlying genetic architecture versus how effectively selection and geographic isolation act to inhibit the geographic spread of locally adapted alleles.  This paper studies a model of the balance between these two routes to adaptation in continuous environments with patchy selection pressures.  We address the following questions: How long does it take for a novel, locally adapted allele to appear in a patch of habitat where it is favored through mutation?  Or, through migration from another, already adapted patch?  Which is more likely to occur, as a function of distance between the patches?  How can we tell which has occurred, i.e., what population genetic signal is left by the spread of migrant alleles?  To answer these questions we examine the family structure underlying migration--selection equilibrium surrounding an already adapted patch, in particular treating those rare families that reach new patches as spatial branching processes.  This provides a way to understand the role of geographic separation between patches in promoting convergent adaptation and the genomic signals it leaves behind.  We illustrate these ideas using the convergent evolution of cryptic coloration in the rock pocket mouse, Chaetodipus intermedius, as an empirical example.', u"Thousands of candidate human-specific regulatory sequences (HSRS) have been identified, supporting the idea that unique to human phenotypes result from human-specific changes to genomic regulatory networks (GRNs). The sequence quality of reference genome databases is essential for the accurate definition of regulatory DNA segments as candidate HSRS. It is unclear how database improvements would affect the validity of the HSRS' definition. Sequence conservation analysis of 15,371 candidate HSRS was carried out using the most recent releases of reference genomes' databases of humans and nonhuman primates (NHP) defining the conservation threshold as the minimum ratio of bases that must remap of 1.00. This analysis identifies 3,793 regulatory DNA segments that lack evidence of human-specific mutations and represent regulatory sequences highly conserved in humans, Bonobo, and Chimpanzee. Present analysis revealed a major database refinement's effect on the validity of HSRS' definition and suggests that human-specific phenotypes may evolve as a results of integration into human-specific GRNs of both conserved in NHP and human-specific genomic regulatory elements.", u'Qualitative patterns of gene activation and repression are often conserved despite an abundance of quantitative variation in expression levels within and between species. A major challenge to interpreting patterns of expression divergence is knowing which changes in gene expression affect fitness. To characterize the fitness effects of gene expression divergence we placed orthologous promoters from eight yeast species upstream of malate synthase (MLS1) in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. As expected, we found these promoters varied in their expression level under activated and repressed conditions as well as in their dynamic response following loss of glucose repression. Despite these differences, only a single promoter driving near basal levels of expression caused a detectable loss of fitness. We conclude that the MLS1 promoter lies on a fitness plateau whereby even large changes in gene expression can be tolerated without a substantial loss of fitness.', u'Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) has been used for more than 20 years to investigate brain function by perturbing and observing the consequent behavioral, pathophysiological and electrophysiological modulations. These latter, mainly measured by high-density electroencephalography (hd-EEG), revealed signatures of the functional organization in a brain network. In order to unveil the nature and the underlying mechanism of these signatures, we here mapped TMS-induced hd-EEG changes onto changes in information flow and brain structural architecture, using multimodal modeling of source reconstructed TMS/hd-EEG recordings and diffusion magnetic resonance imaging (dMRI) tractography in a cohort of awake healthy volunteers. We observed that the relationship between information flow and structural connections depend on the stimulation site and on the frequency of the TMS-induced brain rhythms. These findings highlight the importance of taking into account the dynamics of different local oscillations when investigating the mechanisms for integration and segregation of information in the human brain. Our whole-brain analysis sheds light on the function-structure organization of the brain network after TMS, and on the huge variety of information contained in it.', u'Advances in single cell genomics provides a way of routinely generating transcriptomics data at the single cell level. A frequent requirement of single cell expression experiments is the identification of novel patterns of heterogeneity across single cells that might explain complex cellular states or tissue composition. To date, classical statistical analysis tools have being routinely applied to single cell data, but there is considerable scope for the development of novel statistical approaches that are better adapted to the challenges of inferring cellular hierarchies.\n\nHere, we present a novel integration of principal components analysis and hierarchi- cal clustering to create a framework for characterising cell state identity. Our methodology uses agglomerative clustering to generate a cell state hierarchy where each cluster branch is associated with a principal component of variation that can be used to differentiate two cellular states. We demonstrate that using real single cell datasets this approach allows for consistent clustering of single cell transcriptional profiles across multiple scales of interpretation.\n\nAn R implementation of pcaReduce algorithm is available from https://github. com/JustinaZ/pcaReduce', u'Our method for \u201cTime to most recent common ancestor\u201d TMRCA of genetic trees for the first time deals with natural selection by apriori mathematics and not as a random factor. Bioprocesses such as \u201ckin selection\u201d generate a few overrepresented \u201csingular lineages\u201d while almost all other lineages terminate. This non-uniform branching gives greatly exaggerated TMRCA with current methods. Thus we introduce an inhomogenous stochastic process which will detect singular lineages by asymmetries, whose \u201creduction\u201d then gives true TMRCA. This gives a new phylogenetic method for computing mutation rates, with results similar to \u201cpedigree\u201d (meiosis) data. Despite these low rates, reduction implies younger TMRCA, with smaller errors. We establish accuracy by a comparison across a wide range of time, indeed this is only y-clock giving consistent results for 500-15,000 ybp. In particular we show that the dominant European Y-haplotypes  R1a1a & R1b1a2, expand from c4000BC, not reaching Anatolia before c3800BC. This contradicts previous clocks dating\nR1b1a2 to either the Neolithic Near East or Paleo-Europe. However our dates match R1a1a & R1b1a2 found in Yamnaya cemetaries of c3300BC by Nielsen et al (2015), P\xe4\xe4bo et al(2015), together proving R1a1a & R1b1a2 originates in the Russian Steppes.', u'Olive tree (Olea europaea L.) is one of the most important oil producing crops in the world and the genetic identification of several genotypes by using molecular markers is the first step in its breeding programs. A set of 1,801 well-informative EST-SSR primers targeting specific Olive genes included in different biological processes and pathways were generated using 11,215 Olive EST sequences acquired from the NCBI database. Our bioinformatics analytical procedure showed that 8295 SSR motifs were detected which belonged to different motif types with occurrences of 77.6%, 11.84%, 8.62%, 0.84%, 0.77% and 0.29% for Mononucleotide, trinucleotide, dinucleotide, hexanucleotide, pentanucleotide and tetranucleotide respectively. The appearance of the AAG/CTT repeat was highly represented in trinucleotide and the representation of AG/CT was high in dinucleotide repeats. Results obtained from functional annotation of olives EST sequences targeted with our primers set indicated that 78.5% of these sequences having homology with known proteins, while 4.2% was homologous to hypothetical, predicted, unnamed or uncharacterized proteins and the 17.3% sequences did not possess homology with any known proteins. Our EST-SSR primer set cover a total of 92 biological pathways such as carbohydrate metabolism pathway, energy metabolism & carbon fixation in photosynthetic organism pathway including 11 pathways associated with lipid metabolism .A twenty five randomly selected primers were applied to 9 Egyptian cultivated olive accessions to test its amplification and polymorphism detection efficacy. All tested primers were successfully amplified and only 10 exhibited detectable polymorphism.', u'Human migration and human isolation serve as the driving forces of modern human civilization. Recent migrations of long isolated populations has resulted in genetically admixed populations. The history of population admixture is generally complex; however, understanding the admixture process is critical to both evolutionary and medical studies. Here, we utilized admixture induced linkage disequilibrium (LD) to infer occurrence of continuous admixture events, which is common for most existing admixed populations. Unlike previous studies, we expanded the typical continuous admixture model to a more general admixture scenario with isolation after a certain duration of continuous gene flow, and we demonstrated that such treatment significantly improved the accuracy of inference under complex admixture scenarios. Based on the extended models, we developed a method based on weighted LD to infer the admixture history considering continuous and complex demographic process of gene flow between populations. We evaluated the performance of the method by computer simulation and applied our method to real data analysis of a few well-known admixed populations.', u'Context: The reconstruction of evolutionary scenarios for whole genomes in terms of genome rearrangements is a fundamental problem in evolutionary and comparative genomics. The DeCo algorithm, recently introduced by B erard et al., computes parsimonious evolutionary scenarios for gene adjacencies, from pairs of reconciled gene trees. However, as for many combinatorial optimization algorithms, there can exist many co-optimal, or slightly sub-optimal, evolutionary scenarios that deserve to be considered.\nContribution: We extend the DeCo algorithm to sample evolutionary scenarios from the whole solution space under the Boltzmann distribution, and also to compute Boltzmann probabilities for specific ancestral adjacencies.\nResults: We apply our algorithms to a dataset of mammalian gene trees and adjacencies, and observe a significant reduction of the number of syntenic conflicts observed in the resulting ancestral gene adjacencies.', u'Background: Pouteria splendens (l\xfacumo chileno) is an endemic shrub to the coastal areas of Central Chile classified as Endangered and Rare by the Chilean threatened species list, but as Lower Risk (LR) by IUCN. Based in historical records some authors have hypothesized that P. splendens originally formed a large metapopulation, but due to habitat loss and fragmentation these populations have been reduced to two main areas separated by 100 km, neither of both currently protected by the Chilean system of protected areas. Knowledge about this species is scarce and no studies have provided evidence to support the large metapopulation hypothesis. This gap of knowledge limits our availability to gauge the real urgency to conserve remaining P. splendens populations, which can generate tragic consequences in light of the increasing land-use change and climatic change that are facing these populations. In this study we combined niche modelling, land-use information, future climatic scenarios, and conservation genetics techniques, to test the hypothesis of a potential original large metapopulation, evaluate the role of land-use change in population decline, assess the threats this species may face in the future, and combine the generated information to re-assess its conservation status using the IUCN criteria.\nResults: Our results show that locations with P. splendens are fewer than described in the literature. Results from the niche modelling and genetic analyses support the hypothesis of an originally large metapopulation that was recently reduced and fragmented by anthropogenic land-use change. Future climate change could increase the range of suitable habitats for P. splendens towards inland areas; however the high level of fragmentation of these new areas is expected to preclude colonization processes. \nConclusions: Based on our results we recommend urgent actions towards the conservation of this species, including (1) re-evaluating its current IUCN conservation status and reclassifying it as Endangered (EN), and (2) take immediate actions to develop strategies that effectively protect the remaining populations.', u"Genomic instability causes cancers to acquire hundreds to thousands of mutations and chromosomal alterations during their somatic evolution. Most of these mutations and alterations are termed passengers because they do not confer cancer phenotypes. Evolutionary simulations and cancer genomic studies suggested that mildly-deleterious passengers accumulate, collectively slow cancer progression, reduce the fitness of cancer cells and enhance the effects of therapeutics. However, these effects of passengers and their impact on clinical variables remain limited to genomic analysis. Here, to assess passengers' effect on cell fitness and cancer, we specifically introduced increasing passenger loads into human cell lines and mouse models. We found that passenger load dramatically reduced cancer cell's fitness in every model investigated. Passengers' average fitness cost of ~3% per MB, indicates that genomic instability in cancer in patients can slow tumor growth and prevent metastatic progression. We conclude that genomic instability in cancer is a double-edged sword: it accelerates the accumulation of adaptive drivers, yet incurs a harmful passenger load that can outweigh drivers' benefit. Passenger load could be a useful biomarker for tumor aggressiveness and response to mutagenic or passenger-exacerbating therapies, including anti-tumor immunity.", u"A digital approach to protein identification and quantity estimation using electrical measurements and database search is proposed. It is based on an electrolytic cell with two (three) nanopores and one (two) peptidase(s) covalently attached to the trans side of a pore. An unknown protein is digested by a reagent or peptidase into peptides ending in a known amino acid; the peptides enter the cell, pass through the first pore, and are fragmented by a high-specificity endopeptidase. The second enzyme, if present, is an exopeptidase that cleaves the fragments into single residues after the second pore. Level transitions in an ionic blockade or transverse current pulse due to residues in a fragment or individual pulses due to single residues are counted. This yields the positions of the endopeptidase's target in the peptide, and, together with the peptide's terminal residue, a partial sequence. Search through the Uniprot database for such sequences identifies over 90% of the proteins in the human proteome. The percentage can be increased by repeating the procedure with other reagents and cells specific to other residues, close to 100% may be possible. Sample purification to homogeneity is not required as the method applies to an arbitrary mixture of proteins; the quantity of a protein in the sample can be estimated from the number of identifying peptides sensed over a long run. A Fokker-Planck model gives minimum enzyme turnover intervals required for ordered sensing of peptide fragments. With thick (80-100 nm) pores, required pulse resolution times are within the capability of CMOS detectors. The method can be implemented with existing technology; several related issues are discussed.", u'1) Micro-evolutionary predictions are complicated by ecological feedbacks like density dependence, while ecological predictions can be complicated by evolutionary change. A widely used approach in micro-evolution, quantitative genetics, struggles to incorporate ecological processes into predictive models, while structured population modelling, a tool widely used in ecology, rarely incorporates evolution explicitly.\n2) In this paper we develop a flexible, general framework that links quantitative genetics and structured population models. We use the quantitative genetic approach to write down the phenotype as an additive map. We then construct integral projection models for each component of the phenotype. The dynamics of the distribution of the phenotype are generated by combining distributions of each of its components. Population projection models can be formulated on per generation or on shorter time steps.\n3) We introduce the framework before developing example models with parameters chosen to exhibit specific dynamics. These models reveal (i) how evolution of a phenotype can cause populations to move from one dynamical regime to another (e.g. from stationarity to cycles), (ii) how additive genetic variances and covariances (the G matrix) are expected to evolve over multiple generations, (iii) how changing heritability with age can maintain additive genetic variation in the face of selection and (iii) life history, population dynamics, phenotypic characters and parameters in ecological models will change as adaptation occurs.\n4) Our approach unifies population ecology and evolutionary biology providing a framework allowing a very wide range of questions to be addressed. The next step is to apply the approach to a variety of laboratory and field systems. Once this is done we will have a much deeper understanding of eco-evolutionary dynamics and feedbacks.', u'Embryonic development involves diffusion and proliferation of cells, as well as diffusion\nand reaction of molecules, within growing tissues. Mathematical models of these\nprocesses often involve reaction-diffusion equations on growing domains that have\nbeen primarily studied using approximate numerical solutions. Recently, we have\nshown how to obtain an exact solution to a single, uncoupled, linear reaction-diffusion\nequation on a growing domain, 0 < x < L(t), where L(t) is the domain length. The\npresent work is an extension of our previous study, and we illustrate how to solve a\nsystem of coupled reaction-diffusion equations on a growing domain. This system of\nequations can be used to study the spatial and temporal distributions of different\ngenerations of cells within a population that diffuses and proliferates within a growing\ntissue. The exact solution is obtained by applying an uncoupling transformation, and\nthe uncoupled equations are solved separately before applying the inverse uncoupling\ntransformation to give the coupled solution. We present several example calculations\nto illustrate different types of behaviour. The frst example calculation corresponds to\na situation where the initially-confned population diffuses suffciently slowly that it isunable to reach the moving boundary at x=L(t). In contrast, the second example\ncalculation corresponds to a situation where the initially-confned population is able\nto overcome the domain growth and reach the moving boundary at x=L(t). In its\nbasic format, the uncoupling transformation at first appears to be restricted to deal\nonly with the case where each generation of cells has a distinct proliferation rate.\nHowever, we also demonstrate how the uncoupling transformation can be used when\neach generation has the same proliferation rate by evaluating the exact solutions as an\nappropriate limit.', u'The origin of the germline-soma distinction in metazoans is a fundamental unsolved question. Somatic gametogenesis in sessile sponges and corals contrasts starkly with early germline sequestration in bilaterians with higher energy requirements, elaborate body plans and fast evolution of small mitochondrial genomes. We develop an evolutionary model to investigate whether selection for mitochondrial quality can drive germline evolution. In basal metazoans with low mutation rates, somatic gametogenesis optimizes gamete quality through segregation of mitochondrial mutations in multiple cell divisions. The need to maintain mitochondrial quality in somatic tissues explains the evolution of oogamy and male-female gamete specialization. Higher mitochondrial mutation rates promote early sequestration of a dedicated germline, permitting complex developmental processes. Rising oxygen drove germline evolution in motile bilaterians, igniting the Cambrian explosion.', u'Wild and domesticated Atlantic salmon males display large variation for sea age at sexual\nmaturation, which varies between 1-5 years. Previous studies have uncovered a genetic\npredisposition for age at maturity with moderate heritability, thus suggesting a polygenic or\ncomplex nature of this trait. The aim of this study was to identify associated genetic loci,\ngenes and ultimately specific sequence variants conferring sea age at maturity in salmon. We\nperformed a GWAS using a pool sequencing approach (20 individuals per river and trait) of\nsalmon returning to rivers as sexually mature either after one sea winter (2009) or three sea\nwinters (2011) in six rivers in Norway. The study revealed one major selective sweep, which\ncovered 76 significant SNP in which 74 were found in a 370 kb region of chromosome 25.\nGenotyping other smolt year classes of wild salmon and domesticated salmon confirmed this\nfinding. Genotyping domesticated fish narrowed the haplotype region to four SNPs covering\n2386 bp, containing the vgll3 gene, including two missense mutations explaining 33-36%\nphenotypic variation. This study demonstrates a single locus playing a highly significant role\nin governing sea age at maturation in this species. The SNPs identified may be both used as\nmarkers to guide breeding for late maturity in salmon aquaculture and in monitoring programs\nof wild salmon. Interestingly, a SNP in proximity of the VGLL3 gene in human (Homo\nsapiens), has previously been linked to age at puberty suggesting a conserved mechanism for\ntiming of puberty in vertebrates.', u'Despite decades of research assessing the genetic structure of natural populations, the biological meaning of low yet significant genetic divergence often remains unclear due to a lack of associated phenotypic and ecological information. At the same time, structured populations with low genetic divergence and overlapping boundaries can potentially provide excellent models to study adaptation and reproductive isolation in cases where high resolution genetic markers and relevant phenotypic and life history information are available. Here, we combined SNP-based population inference with extensive phenotypic and life history data to identify potential biological mechanisms driving fine scale sub-population differentiation in Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) from the Teno River, a major salmon river in Europe. Two sympatrically occurring sub-populations had low but significant genetic differentiation (FST = 0.018) and displayed marked differences in the distribution of life history strategies, including variation in juvenile growth rate, age at maturity and size within age classes. Large, late-maturing individuals were virtually absent from one of the two sub-populations and there were significant differences in juvenile growth rates and size-at-age after oceanic migration between individuals in the respective sub-populations. Our findings suggest that different evolutionary processes affect each sub-population and that hybridization and subsequent selection may maintain low genetic differentiation without hindering adaptive divergence.', u'Viruses are the simplest replicating units, characterized by a limited number of coding genes and an exceptionally high rate of overlapping genes. We sought a unified explanation for the evolutionary constraints that govern genome sizes, gene overlapping and capsid properties. We performed an unbiased statistical analysis over the ~100 known viral families, and came to refute widespread assumptions regarding viral evolution. We found that the volume utilization of viral capsids is often low, and greatly varies among families. Most notably, we show that the total amount of gene overlapping is tightly bounded. Although viruses expand three orders of magnitude in genome length, their absolute amount of gene overlapping almost never exceeds 1500 nucleotides, and mostly confined to <4 significant overlapping instances. Our results argue against the common theory by which gene overlapping is driven by a necessity of viruses to compress their genome. Instead, we support the notion that overlapping has a role in gene novelty and evolution exploration.', u'1. Sampling ecological interactions presents similar challenges, problems, potential biases, and constraints as sampling individuals and species in biodiversity inventories. Interactions are just pairwise relationships among individuals of two different species, such as those among plants and their seed dispersers in frugivory interactions or those among plants and their pollinators. Sampling interactions is a fundamental step to build robustly estimated interaction networks, yet few analyses have attempted a formal approach to their sampling protocols.\n\n2. Robust estimates of the actual number of interactions (links) within diversified ecological networks require adequate sampling effort that needs to be explicitly gauged. Yet we still lack a sampling theory explicitly focusing on ecological interactions.\n\n3. While the complete inventory of interactions is likely impossible, a robust characterization of its main patterns and metrics is probably realistic. We must acknowledge that a sizable fraction of the maximum number of interactions I_{max among, say, A animal species and P plant species (i.e., I_max= AP) is impossible to record due to forbidden links, i.e., life-history restrictions. Thus, the number of observed interactions I in robustly sampled networks is typically I<<I_{max}, resulting in extremely sparse interaction matrices with low connectance.\n\n4. Reasons for forbidden links are multiple but mainly stem from spatial and temporal uncoupling, size mismatches, and intrinsically low probabilities of interspecific encounter for most potential interactions of partner species. Adequately assessing the completeness of a network of ecological interactions thus needs knowledge of the natural history details embedded, so that forbidden links can be "discounted\'\' when addressing sampling effort.\n\n5. Here I provide a review and outline a conceptual framework for interaction sampling by building an explicit analogue to individuals and species sampling, thus extending diversity-monitoring approaches to the characterization of complex networks of ecological interactions. This is crucial to assess the fast-paced and devastating effects of defaunation-driven loss of key ecological interactions and the services they provide and the analogous losses related to interaction gains due to invasive species and biotic homogenization.', u'Free iron is highly toxic and the blood-derived iron initiates early motor-neuron degeneration upon breakdown of blood-spinal cord barrier. Iron is currently known to trigger oxidative stress by Fenton chemistry but no report implies that iron manifests its toxicity through CuZn-superoxide dismutase (SOD1), the central antioxidant enzyme in all human tissues that carries >180 ALS-causing mutations. Here, by NMR we show that Zn2+ play an irreplaceable role in the maturation of the nascent hSOD1, and further decipher for the first time that out of 11 other cations only Fe2+ has the Zn2+-like capacity to induce folding to form the Fe2+-bound hSOD1. This acts to reduce or even block the maturation of wild-type and ALS-causing mutant hSOD1, consequently trapping SOD1 in toxic forms and provoking oxidative stress. Our study establishes a novel SOD1-dependent mechanism for iron to manifest cellular toxicity that contributes to pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases, aging and even more.', u'The polarity and organization of radial glial cells (RGCs), which serve as both stem cells and scaffolds for neuronal migration, are crucial for cortical development. However, the cytoskeletal mechanisms that drive radial glial outgrowth and maintain RGC polarity remain poorly understood.  Here, we show that the Arp2/3 complex, the unique actin nucleator that produces branched actin networks, plays essential roles in RGC polarity and morphogenesis.  Disruption of the Arp2/3 complex in RGCs retards process outgrowth toward the basal surface and impairs apical polarity and adherens junctions.  Whereas the former is correlated with abnormal actin-based leading edge, the latter is consistent with blockage in membrane trafficking.  These defects result in altered cell fate, disrupted cortical lamination and abnormal angiogenesis. In addition, we present evidence that the Arp2/3 complex is a cell-autonomous regulator of neuronal migration.  Our data suggest that Arp2/3-mediated actin assembly may be particularly important for neuronal cell motility in soft or poorly adhesive matrix environment.', u'Hfq is the bacterial orthologue of the eukaryotic (L)Sm family of proteins found across all domains of life and potentially an ancient protein, but it has not been found in all phyletic lines. A careful search successfully identified a distant hfq orthologue in the cyanobacteria leaving the actinobacteria as the major phylum with no known hfq orthologue. A search for hfq in actinobacteria, using domain enhanced searching (DELTA-BLAST) with cyanobacterial hfq, identified a conserved actinobacterial specific protein as remotely homologous. Structural homology modelling using profile matching to fold libraries and ab initio 3D structure determination supports this prediction and suggests module shuffling in the evolution of the actinobacterial hfq. Our results provide the basis to explore this prediction, and exploit it, across diverse taxa with potentially important post-transcriptional regulatory effects in virulence, antibiotic production and interactions in human microbiomes. However, the role of hfq in gram positive bacteria has remained elusive and experimental verification will be challenging.', u'Many long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) can regulate chromatin states, but the evolutionary origin and dynamics driving lncRNA-genome interactions are unclear. We developed an integrative strategy that identifies lncRNA orthologs in different species despite limited sequence similarity that is applicable to fly and mammalian lncRNAs. Analysis of the roX lncRNAs, which are essential for dosage compensation of the single X-chromosome in Drosophila males, revealed 47 new roX orthologs in diverse Drosophilid species across ~40 million years of evolution. Genetic rescue by roX orthologs and engineered synthetic lncRNAs showed that evolutionary maintenance of focal structural repeats mediates roX function. Genomic occupancy maps of roX RNAs in four species revealed rapid turnover of individual binding sites but conservation within nearby chromosomal neighborhoods. Many new roX binding sites evolved from DNA encoding a pre-existing RNA splicing signal, effectively linking dosage compensation to transcribed genes. Thus, evolutionary analysis illuminates the principles for the birth and death of lncRNAs and their genomic targets.', u'Forest trees generally show high levels of local adaptation and efforts focusing on understanding adaptation to climate will be crucial for species survival and management. Merging quantitative genetics and population genomics, we studied the molecular basis of climate adaptation in 433 Populus trichocarpa (black cottonwood) genotypes originating across western North America. Variation in 74 field-assessed traits (growth, ecophysiology, phenology, leaf stomata, wood, and disease resistance) was investigated for signatures of selection (comparing QST -FST) using clustering of individuals by climate of origin. 29,354 SNPs were investigated employing three different outlier detection methods. Narrow-sense QST for 53% of distinct field traits was significantly divergent from expectations of neutrality (indicating adaptive trait variation); 2,855 SNPs showed signals of diversifying selection, and of these, 118 SNPs (within 81 genes) were associated with adaptive traits (based on significant QST). Many SNPs were putatively pleiotropic for functionally uncorrelated adaptive traits, such as autumn phenology, height, and disease resistance. Evolutionary quantitative genomics in P. trichocarpa provides an enhanced understanding regarding the molecular basis of climate-driven selection in forest trees. We highlight that important loci underlying adaptive trait variation also show relationship to climate of origin.', u"Motivation: Developing targeted therapeutics and identifying biomarkers \nrelies on large amounts of patient data. Beyond human\nDNA, researchers now investigate the DNA of micro-organisms inhabiting the\nhuman body.  An individual's collection of microbial DNA consistently identifies that \nperson and could be used to link a real-world identity to a sensitive attribute in a research dataset. Unfortunately, the current suite of\nDNA-specific privacy-preserving analysis tools does not meet the requirements for\nmicrobiome sequencing studies. \n\nResults: We augment an existing categorization of genomic-privacy attacks to incorporate\nmicrobiome sequencing and provide an implementation of metagenomic analyses\nusing secure computation. Our implementation allows researchers to perform analysis over combined data without revealing\nindividual patient attributes. We implement three metagenomic analyses and\nperform an evaluation on real datasets for comparative analysis. We use our\nimplementation to simulate sharing data between four policy-domains and measure\nthe increase in significant discoveries. Additionally, we describe an\napplication of our implementation to form patient pools of data to allow drug\ncompanies to query against and compensate patients for the analysis.\n\nAvailability: The software is freely available for download at: http://cbcb.umd.edu/\\textapprox{}hcorrada/projects/secureseq.html", u'A fundamental consideration for the conservation of a species is the extent of its native range, however defining a native range is often challenging as changing environments drive shifts in species distributions over time. The crucian carp, Carassius carassius (L.) is a threatened freshwater fish native to much of Europe, however the extent of this range is ambiguous. One particularly contentious region is England, in which C. carassius is currently considered native on the basis of anecdotal evidence. Here, we use 13 microsatellite loci, population structure analyses and approximate bayesian computation (ABC), to empirically test the native status of C. carassius in England. Contrary to the current consensus, ABC yields strong support for introduced origins of C. carassius in England, with posterior distribution estimates placing their introduction in the 15th century, well after the loss of the doggerland landbridge. This result brings to light an interesting and timely debate surrounding our motivations for the conservation of species. We discuss this topic, and make arguments for the continued conservation of C. carassius in England, despite its non-native origins.', u'As RNA-Seq and other high-throughput sequencing grow in use and remain critical for gene expression studies, technical variability in counts data impedes studies of differential expression studies, data across samples and experiments, or reproducing results. Studies like Dillies et al. (2013) compare several between-lane normalization methods involving scaling factors, while Hansen et al. (2012) and Risso et al. (2014) propose methods that correct for sample-specific bias or use sets of control genes to isolate and remove technical variability. This paper evaluates four normalization methods in terms of reducing intra-group, technical variability and facilitating differential expression analysis or other research where the biological, inter-group variability is of interest. To this end, the four methods were evaluated in differential expression analysis between data from Pickrell et al. (2010) and Montgomery et al. (2010) and between simulated data modeled on these two datasets. Though the between-lane scaling factor methods perform worse on real data sets, they are much stronger for simulated data. We cannot reject the recommendation of Dillies et al. to use TMM and DESeq normalization, but further study of power to detect effects of different size under each normalization method is merited.', u'Pseudomonas aeruginosa is the causative agent of chronic respiratory infections and\nis an important pathogen of cystic fibrosis patients. Adaptive mutations play an\nessential role for antimicrobial resistance and persistence. The factors that contribute\nto bacterial mutagenesis in this environment are not clear. Recently it has been\nproposed that cationic antimicrobial peptides such as LL-37 could act as a mutagen in\nP. aeruginosa. Here we provide experimental evidence that mutagenesis is the product\nof a joint action of LL-37 and free iron. By estimating mutation rate, mutant frequencies\nand assessing mutational spectra in P. aeruginosa treated either with LL-37, iron or a\ncombination of both we demonstrate that mutation rate and mutant frequency were\nincreased only when free iron and LL-37 were present simultaneously. The addition of\nan iron chelator completely abolished this mutagenic effect, suggesting that LL-37\nenables iron to enter the cells resulting in DNA damage by Fenton reactions. This was\nalso supported by the observation that the mutational spectrum of the bacteria under\nLL-37-iron regime showed one of the characteristic Fenton reaction fingerprints: C to T\ntransitions. Free iron concentration in nature and within hosts is kept at a very low\nlevel, but the situation in infected lungs of cystic fibrosis patients is different.\nIntermittent bleeding and damage to the epithelial cells in lungs may contribute to the\nrelease of free iron that in turn leads to generation of reactive oxygen species and\ndeterioration of the respiratory tract, making it more susceptible to the infection.', u'MicroRNAs are a wide class of ~22 nt non-coding RNAs of metazoans capable of inhibiting target mRNAs translation by binding to partially complementary sites in their 3\u2032UTRs. Due to their regulatory potential, miRNAs are implicated in functioning of a broad range of biological pathways and processes. Here we investigate the functions of the miR-959-964 cluster expressed predominantly in testes of Drosophila melanogaster. The deletion of miR-959-964 resulted in male sterility due to the disturbance of the spermatid individualization process. Analysis of the transcriptome by microarray followed by luciferase reporter assay revealed didum, for, fdl and CG10512 as the targets of miR-959-964. Moreover, the deletion of miR-959-964 is accompanied by a decreased the expression of genes responsible for microtubule-based movement and spermatid differentiation. Thus, we suggest that miR-959-964 can control the process of spermatid individualization by direct and indirect modulating the expression of different components of the individualization process. In addition, we have shown that in comparison to other miRNAs, the rate of evolution of the testis-specific miR-959-964 cluster is unusually high, indicating its possible involvement in speciation via reproductive isolation.', u'After heat shock injury, a group of proteins that regulate protein-folding processes are synthesised to prevent damage. Caspase is an enzyme responsible for the execution ostress-induced apoptosis. Heat shock proteins (Hsp) are capable of modulating caspase activity. In addition to changes in protein synthesis, heat shock causes the release of arachidonic acid (AA) from plasma membranes and the subsequent synthesis of eicosanoids, i.e., activation of the AA pathways. The development of cytoprotective strategies might depend on whether caspase-1 activity is affected by heat shock preconditioning and the associated pharmacological modulations after heat shock injury. Therefore, we studied the effects of heat shock preconditioning and modulations of the eicosanoid pathways on Ap-sHSP20.8 and on the final apoptotic effector enzyme caspase-1 to clarify whether these effects were modulated in the fat bodies of Antheraea pernyi injured by heat shock. We concluded that eicosanoid biosynthesis inhibitors might be utilised to simultaneously decrease Hsp 20.8 synthesis and to increase caspase-1 activity. Modifications of the eicosanoid pathways might also be used to mediate caspase-1 activity under hyperthermic conditions, suggesting a novel mechanism for regulation of caspase-1 in the fat bodies of A. pernyi', u'Experimental measurements require calibration to transform measured signals into physically meaningful values. The conventional approach has two steps: the experimenter deduces a conversion function using measurements on standards and then calibrates (or normalizes) measurements on unknown samples with this function. The deduction of the conversion function from only the standard measurements causes the results to be quite sensitive to experimental noise. It also implies that any data collected without reliable standards must be discarded. Here we show that a new "1-step calibration method" reduces these problems for the common situation in which samples are measured in batches, where a batch could be an immunoblot (Western blot), an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), a sequence of spectra, or a microarray, provided that some sample measurements are replicated across multiple batches. The 1- step method computes all calibration results iteratively from all measurements. It returns the most probable values for the sample compositions under the assumptions of a statistical model, making them the maximum likelihood predictors. It is less sensitive to measurement error on standards and enables use of some batches that do not include standards. In direct comparison of both real and simulated immunoblot data, the 1-step method consistently exhibited smaller errors than the conventional "2-step" method. These results suggest that the 1-step method is likely to be most useful for cases where experimenters want to analyze existing data that are missing some standard measurements and where experimenters want to extract the best results possible from their data. Simple open source software for both methods is available for download or on-line use.', u'The extent of within-species genetic variation across the diversity of animal life is a fundamental but largely unexplored problem in ecology and evolution. The neutral theory of molecular evolution predicts that genetic variation scales positively with population size. However, the genetic diversity of mitochondrial DNA, a prominent marker used in DNA barcoding studies, shows very little variation across animal species. Here, we report an unprecedented case of extreme mitochondrial variation within natural populations of two species of chaetognaths (arrow worms). We determined that this diversity is composed of deep intraspecific mitochondrial lineages within single populations that could be as divergent as human and newt. This mitochondrial diversity is the highest ever reported in animals without evidence of cryptic speciation or allopatric divergence as supported by nuclear evidence. We sequenced 54 complete mitogenomes revealing gene order rearrangements between these intraspecific lineages. Such structural differences have never previously been reported within single species. We confirm that this divergence was not driven by positive selection, and conversely show that these lineages evolved under purifying selection, consistently with neutral expectations. Our findings question the generally accepted narrow range of genetic variation in animal mitochondria and argue for a reappraisal of DNA barcoding techniques. Furthermore, extreme levels of mitogenomic variation in chaetognaths challenge classical views regarding mitochondrial evolution and cyto-nuclear co-evolution.', u'The conservation of threatened species must be underpinned by phylogeographic knowledge in order to be effective. This need is epitomised by the freshwater fish Carassius carassius, which has recently undergone drastic declines across much of its European range. Restriction Site Associated DNA sequencing (RADseq) is being increasingly used for such phylogeographic questions, however RADseq is expensive, and limitations on sample number must be weighed against the benefit of large numbers of markers. Such tradeoffs have predominantly been addressed using simulated data. Here we compare the results generated from microsatellites and RADseq to the phylogeography of C. carassius, to add real-data-informed perspectives to this important debate. These datasets, along with data from the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene, agree on broad phylogeographic patterns; showing the existence of two previously unidentified C. carassius lineages in Europe. These lineages have been isolated for approximately 2.2-2.3 M years, and should arguably be considered as separate conservation units. RADseq recovered finer population structure and stronger patterns of IBD than microsatellites, despite including only 17.6% of samples (38% of populations and 52% of samples per population). RADseq was also used along with Approximate Bayesian Computation to show that the postglacial colonisation routes of C. carassius differ from the general patterns of freshwater fish in Europe, likely as a result of their distinctive ecology.', u'Behavioral and sensory adaptations are often based in the differential expansion of brain components. These volumetric differences represent changes in investment, processing capacity and/or connectivity, and can be used to investigate functional and evolutionary relationships between different brain regions, and between brain composition and behavioral ecology. Here, we describe the brain composition of two species of Heliconius butterflies, a long-standing study system for investigating ecological adaptation and speciation. We confirm a previous report of striking mushroom body expansion, and explore patterns of post-eclosion growth and experience-dependent plasticity in neural development. This analysis uncovers age- and experience-dependent post-emergence mushroom body growth comparable to that in foraging hymenoptera, but also identifies plasticity in several other neuropil. An interspecific analysis indicates that Heliconius display remarkable levels of investment in mushroom bodies for a lepidopteran, and indeed rank highly compared to other insects. Our analyses lay the foundation for future comparative and experimental analyses that will establish Heliconius as a useful case study in evolutionary neurobiology.', u'Bluegill sunfish are one of the classic systems for studying male alternative reproductive tactics (ARTs) in teleost fishes. In this species, there are two distinct life histories: parental and cuckolder, encompassing three reproductive tactics, parental, satellite, and sneaker. The parental tactic is fixed, whereas individuals who enter the cuckolder life history transition from the sneaker to the satellite tactic as they grow. For this study, we used RNAseq to characterize the brain transcriptome of the three male tactics during spawning to identify gene categories associated with each tactic and identify potential candidate genes influencing their different spawning behaviors. We found that sneaker males had higher levels of gene differentiation compared to the other two tactics, suggesting that life history does not exclusively drive differential gene expression. Sneaker males had high expression in ionotropic glutamate receptor genes, specifically AMPA receptors, which may be important for increased working spatial memory while attempting to cuckold nests in bluegill colonies. We also found significant expression differences in several candidate genes involved in ARTs that were previously identified in other species and suggest a previously undescribed role for cytosolic 5-nucleotidase II (nt5c2) in influencing parental male behavior during spawning.', u'Infiltrating T cells in the tumor microenvironment have crucial roles in the competing processes of pro-tumor and anti-tumor immune response. However, the infiltration level of distinct T cell subsets and the signals that draw them into a tumor, such as the expression of antigen presenting machinery (APM) genes, remain poorly characterized across human cancers.  Here, we define a novel mRNA-based T cell infiltration score (TIS) and profile infiltration levels in 19 tumor types. We find that clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is the highest for TIS and among the highest for the correlation between TIS and APM expression, despite a modest mutation burden. This finding is contrary to the expectation that immune infiltration and mutation burden are linked. To further characterize the immune infiltration in ccRCC, we use RNA-seq data to computationally infer the infiltration levels of 24 immune cell types in a discovery cohort of 415 ccRCC patients and validate our findings in an independent cohort of 101 ccRCC patients. We find three clusters of tumors that are primarily separated by levels of T cell infiltration and APM gene expression. In ccRCC, the levels of Th17 cells and the ratio of CD8+ T/Treg levels are associated with improved survival whereas the levels of Th2 cells and Tregs are associated with negative clinical outcome. Our analysis illustrates the utility of computational immune cell decomposition for solid tumors, and the potential of this method to guide clinical decision-making.', u'Grain amaranth is a pseudo-cereal and an ancient crop of Central and South America.  Of the three species of grain amaranth, Amaranthus caudatus is mainly grown in the Andean region. Several models of domestication were proposed including a domestication from the wild relatives A. hybridus or A. quitensis. To investigate the domestication history of A. caudatus and its relationship to the two wild relatives, we used genotyping-by-sequencing (GBS) to genotype 119 amaranth accessions from the Andean region. We determined the genome sizes of the three species and compared phenotypic variation in two domestication-related traits, seed size and seed color. We show that the population genetic analysis based on 9,485 SNPs revealed very little genetic differentiation between the two wild species, suggesting they are the same species, but a strong differentiation between wild and domesticated amaranths. A. caudatus has a higher genetic diversity than its wild relatives and about 10% of accessions showed a strong admixture between the wild and cultivated species suggesting recent gene flow. Genome sizes and seed sizes were not significantly different between wild and domesticated amaranths, although a genetically distinct cluster of Bolivian accessions had significantly larger seeds.', u'Mapping reads to a genome remains challenging, especially for non-model organisms with poorer quality assemblies, or for organisms with higher rates of mutations. While most research has focused on speeding up the mapping process, little attention has been paid to optimize the choice of mapper and parameters for a user\u2019s dataset. Here we present Teaser, which assists in these choices through rapid automated benchmarking of different mappers and parameter settings for individualized data. Within minutes, Teaser completes a quantitative evaluation of an ensemble of mapping algorithms and parameters. Using Teaser, we demonstrate how Bowtie2 can be optimized for different data.', u'During the last 50 years, comparative cognition and neurosciences have improved our understanding of animal minds while evolutionary ecology has revealed how selection acts on traits through evolutionary time. We describe how this evolutionary approach can be used to understand the evolution of animal cognition. We recount how comparative and fitness methods have been used to understand the evolution of cognition and outline how these methods could be extended to gain new insights into cognitive evolution. The fitness approach, in particular, offers unprecedented opportunities to study the evolutionary mechanisms responsible for variation in cognition within species and could allow us to investigate both proximate (ie: neural and developmental) and ultimate (ie: ecological and evolutionary) underpinnings of animal cognition together. Our goal in this review is to build a bridge between cognitive neuroscientist and evolutionary biologists, illustrate how their research could be complementary, and encourage evolutionary ecologists to include explicit attention to cognitive processes in their studies of behaviour. We believe that in doing so, we can break new ground in our understanding of the evolution of cognition as well as gain a much better understanding of animal behaviour.', u"Human \u03b3-secretase is an intra-membrane protease that cleaves many different substrates. Aberrant cleavage of Notch is implicated in cancer, while abnormalities in cutting amyloid precursor protein lead to Alzheimer's disease. Our previous cryo-EM structure of \u03b3-secretase revealed considerable disorder in its catalytic subunit presenilin. Here, we introduce an image classification procedure that characterizes molecular plasticity at the secondary structure level, and apply this method to identify three distinct conformations in our previous sample. In one of these conformations, an additional transmembrane helix is visible that cannot be attributed to the known components of \u03b3-secretase. In addition, we present a \u03b3-secretase structure in complex with the dipeptidic inhibitor N-[N-(3,5-difluorophenacetyl)-L-alanyl]-S-phenylglycine t-butyl ester (DAPT). Our results reveal how conformational mobility in the second and sixth transmembrane helices of presenilin is greatly reduced upon binding of DAPT or the additional helix, and form the basis for a new model of how substrate enters the transmembrane domain.", u'Axial elongation is a widespread mechanism propelling the generation of the metazoan body plan. A widely accepted model is that of posterior growth, where new tissue is continually added from the posterior unsegmented tip of the body axis. A key question is whether or not such a posterior growth zone generates sufficient additional tissue volume to generate elongation of the body axis, and the degree to which this is balanced with tissue convergence and/or growth in already segmented regions of the body axis. We applied a multi-scalar morphometric analysis during posterior axis elongation in zebrafish. Importantly, by labelling of specific regions/tissues and tracking their deformation, we observed that the unsegmented region does not generate additional tissue volume at the caudal tip. Instead, it contributes to axis elongation by extensive tissue deformation at constant volume. We show that volumetric growth occurs in the segmented portion of the axis and can be attributed to an increase in the size and length of the spinal cord and notochord. FGF inhibition blocks tissue convergence within the tailbud and unsegmented region rather than affecting volumetric growth, showing that a conserved molecular mechanism can control convergent morphogenesis, even if by different cell behaviours. Finally, a comparative morphometric analysis in lamprey, dogfish, zebrafish and mouse reveal a differential contribution of volumetric growth that is linked to a switch between external and internal modes of development. We propose that posterior growth is not a conserved mechanism to drive axis elongation in vertebrates. It is instead associated with an overall increase in growth characteristic of internally developing embryos that undergo embryonic development concomitantly with an increase in energy supply from the female parent.', u'Horizontal gene transfer (HGT) plays a central role in bacterial evolution, yet the molecular and cellular constraints on functional integration of the foreign genes are poorly understood. Here we performed inter-species replacement of the chromosomal folA gene, encoding an essential metabolic enzyme dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR), with orthologs from 35 other mesophilic bacteria. The orthologous inter-species replacements caused a marked drop (in the range 10-90%) in bacterial growth rate despite the fact that most orthologous DHFRs are as stable as E.coli DHFR at 370C and are more catalytically active than E. coli DHFR. Although phylogenetic distance between E. coli and orthologous DHFRs as well as their individual molecular properties correlate poorly with growth rates, the product of the intracellular DHFR abundance and catalytic activity (kcat/KM), correlates strongly with growth rates, indicating that the drop in DHFR abundance constitutes the major fitness barrier to HGT. Serial propagation of the orthologous strains for ~600 generations dramatically improved growth rates by largely alleviating the fitness barriers. Whole genome sequencing and global proteome quantification revealed that the evolved strains with the largest fitness improvements have accumulated mutations that inactivated the ATP-dependent Lon protease, causing an increase in the intracellular DHFR abundance. In one case DHFR abundance increased further due to mutations accumulated in folA promoter, but only after the lon inactivating mutations were fixed in the population.  Thus, by apparently distinguishing between self and non-self proteins, protein homeostasis imposes an immediate and global barrier to the functional integration of foreign genes by decreasing the intracellular abundance of their products. Once this barrier is alleviated, more fine-tuned evolution occurs to adjust the function/expression of the transferred proteins to the constraints imposed by the intracellular environment of the host organism.', u'In cognitive neuroscience, electrical brain activity is most commonly recorded at the scalp. In order to infer the contributions and connectivity of underlying neuronal sources within the brain, it is necessary to reconstruct sensor data at the source level. Several approaches to this reconstruction have been developed, thereby solving the so-called implicit inverse problem (Michel et al. 2004). However, a unifying premise against which to validate these source reconstructions is seldom available. The dataset provided in this work, in which brain activity is simultaneously recorded on the scalp (non-invasively) by electroencephalography (EEG) and on the cortex (invasively) by electrocorticography (ECoG), can be of a great help in this direction. These multimodal recordings were obtained from a macaque monkey under in wakefulness and sedation. Our primary goal was to establish the connectivity architecture between two sources of interest (frontal and parietal), and to assess how their coupling changes over the conditions. We chose these sources because previous studies have shown that the connections between them are modified by anaesthesia (Boly et al. 2012). Our secondary goal was to evaluate the consistency of the connectivity results when analyzing sources recorded from invasive data (128 implanted ECoG sources) and source activity reconstructed from scalp recordings (19 EEG sensors) at the same locations as the ECoG sources. We conclude that the directed connectivity in the frequency domain between cortical sources reconstructed from scalp EEG is qualitatively similar to the connectivity inferred directly from cortical recordings, using both data-driven (directed transfer function; DTF) and biologically grounded (dynamic causal modelling; DCM) methods. Furthermore, the connectivity changes identified were consistent with previous findings (Boly et al. 2012). Our findings suggest that inferences about directed connectivity based upon non-invasive electrophysiological data have construct validity in relation to invasive recordings.', u'Aging is commonly described as being a continuous process affecting progressively organisms as time passes. This process results in a progressive decrease in individuals fitness through a wide range of both organismal \u2013 decreased motor activity, fertility, resistance to stress \u2013 and molecular phenotypes \u2013 decreased protein and energy homeostasis, impairment of insulin signaling. In the past 20 years, numerous genes have been identified as playing a major role in the aging process, yet little is known about the events leading to that loss of fitness. We recently described an event characterized by a dramatic increase of intestinal permeability to a blue food dye in aging flies committed to die within a few days. Importantly, flies showing this so called \u2018Smurf\u2019 phenotype are the only ones, among a population, to show various age-related changes and exhibit a high-risk of impending death whatever their chronological age. Thus, these observations suggest that instead of being one continuous phenomenon, aging may be a discontinuous process well described by at least two distinguishable phases. In this paper we addressed this hypothesis by implementing a new 2-Phases of Aging mathematiCal model (2PAC model) to simulate longevity curves based on the simple hypothesis of two consecutive phases of lifetime presenting different properties. We first present a unique equation for each phase and discuss the biological significance of the 3 associated parameters. Then we evaluate the influence of each parameter on the shape of survival curves. Overall, this new mathematical model, based on simple biological observations, is able to reproduce many experimental longevity curves, supporting the existence of 2-phases of aging exhibiting specific properties and separated by a dramatic transition that remains to be characterized. Moreover, it indicates that Smurf survival can be approximated by one single constant parameter for a broad range of genotypes that we have tested under our environmental conditions.', u'We identified and characterized a free PRE-1 element inserted into the promoter region of the porcine IGFBP7 gene whose integration mechanisms into the genome, including copy number, distribution preferences, capacity to exonize and phyloclustering pattern are similar to that of the primate Alu element. 98% of these PRE-1 elements also contain two conserved internal AluI restriction enzyme recognition sites, and the RNA structure of PRE1 can be folded into a two arms model like the Alu RNA structure. It is more surprising that the length of the PRE-1 fragments is nearly the same in 20 chromosomes and positively correlated to its fracture site frequency. All of these fracture sites are close to the mutation hot spots of PRE-1 families, and most of these hot spots are located in the non-complementary fragile regions of the PRE-1 RNA structure. Sequence homology analysis showed that the PRE-1 element seemed to share a common ancestor 7SL RNA with primates but was generated by different evolutionary model, which suggests that the suidae may be the closest relatives to primates in laurasiatheria.', u"In the present change blindness study subjects explored stereoscopic three dimensional (3D) environments through a virtual reality (VR) headset. A novel method that tracked the subjects' head movements was used for inducing changes in the scene whenever the changing object was out of the field of view. The effect of change location (foreground or background in 3D depth) on change blindness was investigated. Two experiments were conducted, one in the lab (n = 50) and the other online (n = 25). Up to 25% of the changes were undetected and the mean overall search time was 27 seconds in the lab study. Results indicated significantly lower change detection success and more change cycles if the changes occurred in the background, with no differences in overall search times. The results confirm findings from previous studies and extend them to 3D environments. The study also demonstrates the feasibility of online VR experiments.", u'Rapid climate change has generated growing interest in forecasts of future population trajectories. Traditional population models, typically built using detailed demographic observations from one study site, can address climate change impacts at one location, but are difficult to scale up to the landscape and regional scales relevant to management decisions. An alternative is to build models using population-level data that is much easier to collect over broad spatial scales than individual-level data. However, such models ignore the fact that climate drives population growth through its influence on individual performance. Here, we test the consequences of aggregating individual responses when forecasting climate change impacts on four perennial grass species in a semi-arid grassland in Montana, USA. We parameterized two population models based on the same dataset, one based on individual-level data (survival, growth and recruitment) and one on population-level data (percent cover), and compared their accuracy, precision, and sensitivity to climate variables. The individual-level model was more accurate and precise than the aggregated model when predicting out-of-sample observations. When comparing climate effects from both models, the population-level model missed important climate effects from at least one vital rate for each species. Increasing the sample size at the population-level would not necessarily reduce forecast uncertainty; the way to reduce uncertainty is to capture unique climate dependence of individual vital rates. Our analysis indicates that there is no shortcut to forecasting climate change impacts on plant populations \u2014 detailed demographic data is essential. Despite the superiority of the individual-level model, the forecasts it generated still were too uncertain to be useful for decision-makers. We need new methods to collect demographic data efficiently across environmental gradients in space and time.', u'Competitive exclusion and habitat filtering are believed to have an important influence on the assembly of ecological communities, but ecologists and evolutionary biologists have not reached a consensus on how to quantify patterns that would reveal the action of these processes. No fewer than 22 phylogenetic community structure metrics and nine null models can be combined, providing 198 approaches to test for such patterns. Choosing statistically appropriate approaches is currently a daunting task. First, given random community assembly, we assessed similarities among metrics and among null models in their behavior across communities varying in species richness. Second, we developed spatially explicit, individual-based simulations where communities were assembled either at random, by competitive exclusion or by habitat filtering. Third, we quantified the performance (type I and II error rates) of all 198 approaches against each of the three assembly processes. Many metrics and null models are functionally equivalent, more than halving the number of unique approaches. Moreover, an even smaller subset of metric and null model combinations is suitable for testing community assembly patterns. Metrics like mean pairwise phylogenetic distance and phylogenetic diversity were better able to detect simulated community assembly patterns than metrics like phylogenetic abundance evenness. A null model that simulates regional dispersal pressure on the community of interest outperformed all others. We introduce a flexible new R package, metricTester, to facilitate robust analyses of method performance. The package is programmed in parallel to readily accommodate integration of new row-wise matrix calculations (metrics) and matrix-wise randomizations (null models) to generate expectations and quantify error rates of proposed methods.', u'Determining the interconverting conformations of dynamic proteins in atomic detail is a major challenge for structural biology. Conformational heterogeneity in the active site of the dynamic enzyme cyclophilin A (CypA) has been previously linked to its catalytic function. Here we compare the conformational ensembles of CypA by fixed-target X-ray free electron laser (XFEL) crystallography and multitemperature synchrotron crystallography. The \u201cdiffraction-before-destruction\u201d nature of XFEL experiments provides a radiation-damage-free view of the functionally important alternative conformations of CypA. We monitored the temperature dependences of these alternative conformations with eight synchrotron datasets spanning 100-310 K. Multiconformer models show that many alternative conformations in CypA are populated above, but not below, the glass transition temperature (~200 K) and reveal abrupt changes in protein flexibility that provide all-atom insight into conformational coupling. Together, our XFEL data and multitemperature analyses motivate a new generation of time-resolved experiments to structurally characterize the dynamic underpinnings of protein function.', u'Scaffolding is often an essential step in a genome assembly process,in which contigs are ordered and oriented using read pairs from a combination of paired-ends libraries and longer-range mate-pair libraries. Although a simple idea, scaffolding is unfortunately hard to get right in practice. One source of problem is so-called PE-contamination in mate-pair libraries, in which a non-negligible fraction of the read pairs get the wrong orientation and a much smaller insert size than what is expected. This contamination has been discussed in previous work on integrated scaffolders in end-to-end assemblers such as Allpaths-LG and MaSuRCA but the methods relies on the fact that the orientation is observable, \\emph{e.g.}, by finding the junction adapter sequence in the reads. This is not always the case, making orientation and insert size of a read pair stochastic. Furthermore, work on modeling PE-contamination has so far been disregarded in stand-alone scaffolders and the effect that PE-contamination has on scaffolding quality has not been examined before.\n\nWe have addressed PE-contamination in an update of our scaffolder BESST. We formulate the problem as an Integer Linear Program (ILP) and use characteristics of the problem, such as contig lengths and insert size, to efficiently solve the ILP using a linear amount (with respect to the number of contigs) of Linear Programs. Our results show significant improvement over both integrated and standalone scaffolders. The impact of modeling PE-contamination is quantified by comparison with the previous BESST model. We also show how other scaffolders are vulnerable to PE-contaminated libraries, resulting in increased number of misassemblies, more conservative scaffolding, and inflated assembly sizes. \n\n\nThe model is implemented in BESST. Source code and usage\ninstructions are found at https://github.com/ksahlin/BESST. BESST can also be downloaded using PyPI.', u'Background: The length of a protein sequence is largely determined by its function, i.e. each functional group is associated with an optimal size. However, comparative genomics revealed that proteins\u2019 length may be affected by additional factors. In 2002 it was shown that in bacterium Escherichia coli and the archaeon Archaeoglobus fulgidus, protein sequences with no homologs are, on average, shorter than those with homologs [1]. Most experts now agree that the length distributions are distinctly different between protein sequences with and without homologs in bacterial and archaeal genomes. In this study, we examine this postulate by a comprehensive analysis of all annotated prokaryotic genomes and focusing on certain exceptions. \nResults: We compared lengths\u2019 distributions of "having homologs proteins" (HHPs) and "non-having homologs proteins" (orphans or ORFans) in all currently annotated completely sequenced prokaryotic genomes. As expected, the HHPs and ORFans have strikingly different length distributions in almost all genomes. As previously established, the HHPs, indeed, are, on average, longer than the ORFans, and the length distributions for the ORFans have a relatively narrow peak, in contrast to the HHPs, whose lengths spread over a wider range of values. However, about thirty genomes do not obey these rules. Practically all genomes of Mycoplasma and Ureaplasma have atypical ORFans distributions, with the mean lengths of ORFan larger than the mean lengths of HHPs. These genera constitute over 80% of atypical genomes.\nConclusions: We confirmed on a ubiquitous set of genomes the previous observation that HHPs and ORFans have different gene length distributions. We also showed that Mycoplasmataceae genomes have very distinctive distributions of ORFans lengths. We offer several possible biological explanations of this phenomenon.', u'RNA-seq technology is widely used in biomedical and basic science research. These studies rely on complex computational methods that quantify expression levels for observed transcripts. We find that current computational methods can lead to hundreds of false positive results related to alternative isoform usage.  This flaw in the current methodology stems from a lack of modeling sample-specific bias that leads to drops in coverage and is related to sequence features like fragment GC content and GC stretches. By incorporating features that explain this bias into transcript expression models, we greatly increase the specificity of transcript expression estimates, with more than a four-fold reduction in the number of false positives for reported changes in expression.  We introduce alpine, a method for estimation of bias-corrected transcript abundance. The method is available as a Bioconductor package that includes data visualization tools useful for bias discovery.', u'Fluorescent protein tags have revolutionized cell and developmental biology, and in combination with binary expression systems they enable diverse tissue-specific studies of protein function. However these binary expression systems often do not recapitulate endogenous protein expression levels, localization, binding partners, and developmental windows of gene expression. To address these limitations, we have developed a method called T-STEP (Tissue-Specific Tagging of Endogenous Proteins) that allows endogenous loci to be tagged in a tissue specific manner. T-STEP uses a combination of efficient gene targeting and tissue-specific recombinase-mediated tag swapping to temporally and spatially label endogenous proteins. We have employed this method to GFP tag OCRL (a phosphoinositide-5-phosphatase in the endocytic pathway) and Vps35 (a Parkinson\u2019s disease-implicated component of the endosomal retromer complex) in diverse Drosophila tissues including neurons, glia, muscles, and hemocytes. Selective tagging of endogenous proteins allows for the first time cell type-specific live imaging and proteomics in complex tissues.', u'The heterodimeric T cell receptor (TCR) comprises two protein chains that pair to determine the antigen specificity of each T lymphocyte. The enormous sequence diversity within TCR repertoires allows specific TCR sequences to be used as lineage markers for T cells that derive from a common progenitor. We have developed a computational method, called TraCeR, to reconstruct full\xadlength, paired TCR sequences from T lymphocyte single\xadcell RNA\xadseq by combining existing assembly and alignment programs with a \u201csynthetic genome\u201d library comprising all possible TCR sequences. We validate this method with PCR to quantify its accuracy and sensitivity, and compare to other TCR sequencing methods. Our inferred TCR sequences reveal clonal relationships between T cells, which we put into the context of each cell\u2019s functional state from the complete transcriptional landscape quantified from the remaining RNA\xadseq data. This provides a powerful tool to link T cell specificity with functional response in a variety of normal and pathological conditions. We demonstrate this by determining the distribution of members of expanded T cell clonotypes in response to Salmonella\u200b infection in the mouse. We show that members of the same clonotype span early activated CD4+ T cells, as well as mature effector and memory cells.', u'We surveyed gene expression in six tissues in an F2 intercross between mouse strains C57BL/6J (abbreviated B6) and BTBR T+ tf /J (abbreviated BTBR) made genetically obese with the Leptin(ob) mutation. We identified a number of expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) affecting the expression of numerous genes distal to the locus, called trans-eQTL hotspots. Some of these trans-eQTL hotspots showed effects in multiple tissues, whereas some were specific to a single tissue. An unusually large number of transcripts (7% of genes) mapped in trans to a hotspot on chromosome 6, specifically in pancreatic islets. By considering the first two principal components of the expression of genes mapping to this region, we were able to convert the multivariate phenotype into a simple Mendelian trait. Fine-mapping the locus by traditional methods reduced the QTL interval to a 298 kb region containing only three genes, including Slco1a6, one member of a large family of organic anion transporters. Direct genomic sequencing of all Slco1a6 exons identified a non-synonymous coding SNP that converts a highly conserved proline residue at amino acid position 564 to serine. Molecular modeling suggests that Pro564 faces an aqueous pore within this 12-transmembrane domain-spanning protein. When transiently overexpressed in HEK293 cells, BTBR OATP1A6-mediated cellular uptake of the bile acid taurocholic acid (TCA) was enhanced compared to B6 OATP1A6. Our results suggest that genetic variation in Slco1a6 leads to altered transport of TCA (and potentially other bile acids) by pancreatic islets, resulting in broad gene regulation.', u'Entomophilous exotic plant species not only compete directly for space and light with other plants, but also offer resource opportunities for the native pollinator community. Most research on this topic to date has taken the plant perspective, focusing on how successful plant invaders integrate into the native plant-pollinator interaction networks. However, species specific responses of pollinators to the addition of exotic plants are rarely taken into account. We show here that while some bumble bees and other trophic generalist bees can benefit from exotic plant invasions, other species can be negatively affected. Behavioral flexibility may be the key to persist in a changing world.', u'In a recent paper published in PNAS (Golan et al. 2014), residual maximum\nlikelihood (REML) seriously underestimated genetic variance explained by genomewide\nsingle nucleotide polymorphism when using a case-control design. It was\nconcluded that Haseman\u2013Elston regression (denoted as PCGC in their paper) should\nbe used instead of REML. Their conclusions were based on results from simplified\nlinkage equilibrium SNP simulation (SLES), which the authors acknowledged may be\nunrealistic. We found that their simulation, SLES, unrealistically inflated the\ncorrelation between the eigenvectors of the genomic relationship matrix and disease\nstatus to values that are rarely observed in real data analyses. With a more realistic\nsimulation that the authors failed to carry out (as they noted in their paper), we\nshowed that there was no such inflated correlation between the eigenvectors of the\ngenomic relationship matrix and disease status. Because REML uses the eigensystem\nof covariance structure, the inflated correlation artefactually constrained its estimates.\nWe compared SNP-heritabilities from SLES and a more realistic simulation, showing\nthat there was a substantial difference between the REML estimates from the two\nsimulation strategies. Finally, we presented that there was no difference between\nREML and PCGC in real data analyses. This pattern from real data results differed\nstrikingly from the pattern in the simulation study of Golan et al. One needs to be\ncautious of results drawn from SLES.', u'Islands are or have been occupied by unusual species, such as dwarf proboscideans and giant rodents. The discussion of the classical but controversial \u201cisland rule,\u201d which states that mammalian body sizes converge on intermediate sizes on islands, has been stimulated by these unusual species. In this paper, we use an unprecedented global data set of the distributions and the body sizes of mammals and a novel analytical method to analyze body size evolution on islands; the analyses produced strong support for the island rule. Islands have suffered massive human-driven losses of species, and we found that the support for the island rule was substantially stronger when the many late-Quaternary extinct species were also considered (particularly, the tendency for dwarfing in large taxa). In this study, the decisive support generated for the island rule confirmed that evolution is markedly different on islands and that human impact may obscure even fundamental evolutionary patterns.', u'We accumulated mutations for 1952 generations in 79 initially identical, haploid lines of the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe and then performed whole-genome sequencing to determine the mutation rates and spectrum. We captured 696 spontaneous mutations across the 79 mutation accumulation lines. We compared the mutation spectrum and rate to another model ascomycetous yeast, the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. While the two organisms are approximately 600 million years diverged from each other, they share similar life histories, genome size and genomic G/C content. We found that Sc. pombe and S. cerevisiae have similar mutation rates, contrary to what was expected given Sc. pombe\u2019s smaller reported effective population size. Sc. pombe\u2019s also exhibits a strong insertion bias in comparison to S. cerevisiae,. Intriguingly, we observed an increased mutation rate at cytosine nucleotides, specifically CpG nucleotides, which is also seen in S. cerevisiae. However, the absence of methylation in Sc. pombe and the pattern of mutation at these sites, primarily C\u2192 A as opposed to C\u2192T, strongly suggest that the increased mutation rate is not caused by deamination of methylated cytosines. This result implies that the high mutability of CpG dinucleotides in other species may be caused in part by an additional mechanism than methylation.', u'To decrypt the regulatory code of the genome, sequence elements must be defined that determine the kinetics of RNA metabolism and thus gene expression. Here we attempt such decryption in an eukaryotic model organism, the fission yeast S. pombe. We first derive an improved genome annotation that redefines borders of 36% of expressed mRNAs and adds 487 non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs). We then combine RNA labeling in vivo with mathematical modeling to obtain rates of RNA synthesis and degradation for 5,484 expressed RNAs and splicing rates for 4,958 introns. We identify functional sequence elements in DNA and RNA that control RNA metabolic rates, and quantify the contributions of individual nucleotides to RNA synthesis, splicing, and degradation. Our approach reveals distinct kinetics of mRNA and ncRNA metabolism, separates antisense regulation by transcription interference from RNA interference, and provides a general tool for studying the regulatory code of genomes.', u'Marine viruses are critical drivers of ocean biogeochemistry and their abundances vary spatiotem-\nporally in the global oceans, with upper estimates exceeding 10 8 per ml. Over many years, a con-\nsensus has emerged that virus abundances are typically 10-fold higher than prokaryote abundances.\nThe use of a fixed-ratio suggests that the relationship between virus and prokaryote abundances is\nboth predictable and linear. However, the true explanatory power of a linear relationship and its\nrobustness across diverse ocean environments is unclear. Here, we compile 5671 prokaryote and virus\nabundance estimates from 25 distinct marine surveys to characterize the relationship between virus\nand prokaryote abundances. We find that the median virus-to-prokaryote ratio (VPR) is 10:1 and\n16:1 in the near- and sub-surface oceans, respectively. Nonetheless, we observe substantial variation\nin the VPR and find either no or limited explanatory power using fixed-ratio models. Instead, virus\nabundances are better described as nonlinear, power-law functions of prokaryote abundances - par-\nticularly when considering relationships within distinct marine surveys. Estimated power-laws have\nscaling exponents that are typically less than 1, signifying that the VPR decreases with prokaryote\ndensity, rather than remaining fixed. The emergence of power-law scaling presents a challenge for\nmechanistic models seeking to understand the ecological causes and consequences of marine virus-\nmicrobe interactions. Such power-law scaling also implies that efforts to average viral effects on\nmicrobial mortality and biogeochemical cycles using \u201crepresentative\u201d abundances or abundance-\nratios need to be refined if they are to be utilized to make quantitative predictions at regional or\nglobal ocean scales.', u'Simple and ubiquitous gene interactions create rugged fitness landscapes composed of coadapted gene complexes separated by \u201cvalleys\u201d of low fitness. Crossing such fitness valleys allows a population to escape suboptimal local fitness peaks to become better adapted. This is the premise of Sewall Wright\u2019s shifting balance process. Here we generalize the theory of fitness-valley crossing in the two-locus, biallelic case by allowing bias in parent-offspring transmission. This generalization extends the existing mathematical framework to genetic systems with segregation distortion and uniparental inheritance. Our results are also flexible enough to provide insight into shifts between alternate stable states in cultural systems with \u201ctransmission valleys\u201d. Using a semi-deterministic analysis and a stochastic diffusion approximation, we focus on the limiting step in valley crossing: the first appearance of the genotype on the new fitness peak whose lineage will eventually fix. We then apply our results to specific cases of segregation distortion, uniparental inheritance, and cultural transmission. Segregation distortion favouring mutant alleles facilitates crossing most when recombination and mutation are rare, i.e., scenarios where crossing is otherwise unlikely. Interactions with more mutable genes (e.g., uniparental inherited cytoplasmic elements) substantially reduce crossing times. Despite component traits being passed on poorly in the previous cultural background, small advantages in the transmission of a new combination of cultural traits can greatly facilitate a cultural transition. While peak shifts are unlikely under many of the common assumptions of population genetic theory, relaxing some of these assumptions can promote fitness-valley crossing.', u'Heterogeneity across cancer makes it difficult to find driver genes with intermediate (2-20%) and low frequency (<2%) mutations, and we are potentially missing entire classes of networks (or pathways) of biological and therapeutic value. Here, we quantify the extent to which cancer genes across 21 tumor types have an increased burden of mutations in their immediate gene network derived from functional genomics data. We formalize a classifier that accurately calculates the significance level of a gene\u2019s network mutation burden (NMB) and show it can accurately predict known cancer genes and recently proposed driver genes in the majority of tested tumours. Our approach predicts 62 putative cancer genes, including 35 with clear connection to cancer and 27 genes, which point to new cancer biology. NMB identifies proportionally more (4x) low-frequency mutated genes as putative cancer genes than gene-based tests, and provides molecular clues in patients without established driver mutations. Our quantitative and comparative analysis of pan-cancer networks across 21 tumour types gives new insights into the biological and genetic architecture of cancers and enables additional discovery from existing cancer genomes. The framework we present here should become increasingly useful with more sequencing data in the future.', u"Due to recent advances in reprogramming cell phenotypes, many efforts have been dedicated to developing reverse engineering procedures for the identification of gene regulatory networks that emulate dynamical properties associated with the cell fates of a given biological system. In this work, we propose a systems biology approach for the reconstruction of the gene regulatory network underlying the dynamics of the Trypanosoma cruzi's life cycle. By means of an optimisation procedure, we embedded the steady state maintenance, and the known phenotypic transitions between these steady states in response to environmental cues, into the dynamics of a gene network model. In the resulting network architecture we identified a small subnetwork, formed by seven interconnected nodes, that controls the parasite's life cycle. The present approach could be useful for better understanding other single cell organisms with multiple developmental stages.", u'The genetic diversity within a single tumor can be extremely large, possibly with mutations at all coding sites (Ling et al. 2015). In this study, we analyzed 12 cases of multiple hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) tumors by sequencing and genotyping several samples from each case. In 10 cases, tumors are clonally related by a process of cell migration and colonization. They permit a detailed analysis of the evolutionary forces (mutation, migration, drift and natural selection) that influence the genetic diversity both within and between tumors. In 23 inter-tumor comparisons, the descendant tumor usually shows a higher growth rate than the parent tumor. In contrast, neutral diversity dominates within-tumor observations such that adaptively growing clones are rarely found. The apparent adaptive evolution between tumors can be explained by the inherent bias for detecting larger tumors that have a growth advantage. Beyond these tumors are a far larger number of clones which, growing at a neutral rate and too small to see, can nevertheless be verified by molecular means. Given that the estimated genetic diversity is often very large, therapeutic strategies need to take into account the pre-existence of many drug-resistance mutations. Importantly, these mutations are expected to be in the very low frequency range in the primary tumors (and become frequent in the relapses, as is indeed reported (1-3). In conclusion, tumors may often harbor a very large number of mutations in the very low frequency range. This duality provides both a challenge and an opportunity for designing strategies against drug resistance (4-8).', u'1. The partitioning of biomass into leaves and stems is one of the most uncertain  and influential components of  global vegetation models (GVMs). Although GVMs typically assume that the major woody plant functional types (PFTs) differ in biomass partitioning, empirical studies have not been able to justify these differences. Here we test for differences between PFTs in partitioning of biomass between leaves and stems.\n2. We use the recently published Biomass And Allometry Database (BAAD), a large database including observations for individual plants. The database covers the global climate space, allowing us to test for direct climate effects in addition to PFT. \n3. The leaf mass fraction (LMF, leaf / total aboveground biomass) varied strongly between PFTs (as defined by deciduous vs. evergreen and gymnosperm vs. angiosperm). We found that LMF, once corrected for plant height, was proportional to leaf mass per area across PFTs. As a result, the PFTs did not differ in the amount of leaf area supported per unit above ground biomass. We found only weak and inconsistent effects of climate on biomass partitioning.\n4. Combined, these results uncover fundamental rules in how plants are constructed and allow for systematic benchmarking of biomass partitioning routines in GVMs.', u'Ubiquitination is an essential post-translational regulatory process that can control protein stability, localization, and activity. Ubiquitin is essential for eukaryotic life and is highly conserved, varying in only 3 amino acid positions between yeast and humans. However, recent deep sequencing studies in S. cerevisiae indicate that ubiquitin is highly tolerant to single amino acid mutations. To resolve this paradox, we hypothesized that the set of tolerated substitutions would be reduced when the cultures are not grown in rich media conditions and that chemically induced physiologic perturbations might unmask constraints on the ubiquitin sequence. To test this hypothesis, a class of first year UCSF graduate students employed a deep mutational scanning procedure to determine the fitness landscape of a library of all possible single amino acid mutations of ubiquitin in the presence of one of five small molecule perturbations: MG132, Dithiothreitol (DTT), Hydroxyurea (HU), Caffeine, and DMSO. Our data reveal that the number of tolerated substitutions is greatly reduced by DTT, HU, or Caffeine, and that these perturbations uncover \u201cshared sensitized positions\u201d localized to areas around the hydrophobic patch and to the C-terminus. We also show perturbation specific effects including the sensitization of His68 in HU and tolerance to mutation at Lys63 in DTT. Taken together, our data suggest that chemical stress reduces buffering effects in the ubiquitin proteasome system, revealing previously hidden fitness defects. By expanding the set of chemical perturbations assayed, potentially by other classroom-based experiences, we will be able to further address the apparent dichotomy between the extreme sequence conservation and the experimentally observed mutational tolerance of ubiquitin. Finally, this study demonstrates the realized potential of a project lab-based interdisciplinary graduate curriculum.', u'A recent paper identified an artifact in multiple single-cell RNA-seq (scRNA-seq) data sets generated by the Fluidigm C1 platform. Specifically, Leng* et al. showed significantly increased gene expression in cells captured from sites with small or large plate output IDs. We refer to this artifact as an ordering effect (OE). Including OE genes in downstream analyses could lead to biased results. To address this problem, we developed a statistical method and software called OEFinder to identify a sorted list of OE genes. OEFinder is available as an R package along with user-friendly graphical interface implementations that allows users to check for potential artifacts in scRNA-seq data generated by the Fluidigm C1 platform.', u'Differentiating pluripotent cells from fibroblast progenitors is a potentially transformative tool in personalized medicine. We previously identified relatively greater success culturing dura-derived fibroblasts than scalp-derived fibroblasts from postmortem tissue. We hypothesized that these differences in culture success were related to epigenetic differences between the cultured fibroblasts by sampling location, and therefore generated genome-wide DNA methylation and transcriptome data on 11 intrinsically matched pairs of dural and scalp fibroblasts from donors across the lifespan (infant to 85 years). While these cultured fibroblasts were several generations removed from the primary tissue and morphologically indistinguishable, we found widespread epigenetic differences by sampling location at the single CpG (N=101,989), region (N=697), \u201cblock\u201d (N=243), and global spatial scales suggesting a strong epigenetic memory of original fibroblast location. Furthermore, many of these epigenetic differences manifested in the transcriptome, particularly at the region-level. We further identified 7,265 CpGs and 11 regions showing significant epigenetic memory related to the age of the donor, as well as an overall increased epigenetic variability, preferentially in scalp-derived fibroblasts -83% of loci were more variable in scalp, hypothesized to result from cumulative exposure to environmental stimuli in the primary tissue. By integrating publicly available DNA methylation datasets on individual cell populations in blood and brain, we identified significantly increased inter-individual variability in our scalp- and other skin-derived fibroblasts on a similar scale as epigenetic differences between different lineages of blood cells. Lastly, these epigenetic differences did not appear to be driven by somatic mutation - while we identified 64 probable de-novo variants across the 11 subjects, there was no association between mutation burden and age of the donor (p=0.71). These results depict a strong component of epigenetic memory in cell culture from primary tissue, even after several generations of daughter cells, related to cell state and donor age.', u"Geographic patterns of genetic variation within modern populations, \nproduced by complex histories of migration, \ncan be difficult to infer and visually summarize. \nA general consequence of geographically limited dispersal \nis that samples from nearby locations tend to be more closely related than samples from distant locations, \nand so genetic covariance often recapitulates geographic proximity.  \nWe use genome-wide polymorphism data to build ``geogenetic maps,'' \nwhich, when applied to stationary populations, \nproduces a map of the geographic positions of the populations, \nbut with distances distorted to reflect historical rates of gene flow.  \nIn the underlying model, allele frequency covariance is a decreasing function of geogenetic distance, \nand nonlocal gene flow such as admixture can be identified as anomalously strong covariance over long distances.  \nThis admixture is explicitly co-estimated and depicted as arrows, \nfrom the source of admixture to the recipient, on the geogenetic map.  \nWe demonstrate the utility of this method on a circum-Tibetan sampling of the greenish warbler (Phylloscopus trochiloides), \nin which we find evidence for gene flow between the adjacent, terminal populations of the ring species. \nWe also analyze a global sampling of human populations, for which we largely recover the geography of the sampling, \nwith support for significant histories of admixture in many samples.  \nThis new tool for understanding and visualizing patterns of population structure \nis implemented in a Bayesian framework in the program SpaceMix.", u'Descending pathways are important modulators of motor networks and allow the dynamic adjustment of behaviors to changing internal and external conditions. Central pattern generating networks (CPG) have been particularly amenable to study the modulation of motor networks and demonstrated that virtually all levels of information processing are controlled by descending projections. CPGs receive sensory feedback and while it is known that sensory activity can be gated by central pathways, we here present for the first time that descending projection neurons modulate action potential initiation in sensory neurons.\nWe used the fact that the anterior gastric receptor neuron (AGR), a single-cell bipolar muscle tendon organ in the crustacean stomatogastric nervous system, generates spontaneous ectopic action potentials in its axon. We found that axonal spike initiation is under direct neuromodulatory control by a pair of descending projection neurons. These IV (inferior ventricular) neurons descend from the brain and are known to control CPGs in the stomatogastric ganglion (STG). Activation of the IV neurons elicited a long-lasting decrease in AGR ectopic spike activity. This decrease was only observed when spikes were generated ectopically in the central portion of the axon, i.e. the modulation was specific to the site of spontaneous spike initiation. The decrease could be mimicked by focal application of the IV neuron co-transmitter histamine and IV neuron actions were diminished after blocking H2 receptors, indicating a direct descending modulation of the axonal spike initiation site. In contrast, the propagation dynamics of en-passant action potentials were not affected. Descending modulatory projection neurons therefore control axonal spike initiation in sensory neurons without affecting afferent spike propagation to increase the physiological activity repertoire of sensory pathways.', u'Unlike passive rupture of the human chorioamnion at birth, the insect extraembryonic (EE) tissues \u2013 the amnion and serosa \u2013 actively rupture and withdraw in late embryogenesis.  Despite its importance for successful development, EE morphogenesis remains poorly understood.  Contradicting the hypothesis of a single, fused EE membrane, we show that both tissues persist as discrete epithelia within a bilayer, using new tissue-specific EGFP transgenic lines in the beetle Tribolium castaneum.  Quantitative live imaging analyses show that the amnion initiates EE rupture in a specialized anterior-ventral cap, while RNAi manipulation of EE tissue complement and function reveals that the serosa is autonomously contractile.  Thus the bilayer efficiently coordinates the amnion as initiator and serosa as driver to achieve withdrawal.  The novel bilayer architecture may reflect evolutionary changes in the EE tissues specific to holometabolous insects.  More generally, tissue apposition in a bilayer exemplifies a high degree of functional interaction between developing epithelia.', u'Background\nGenotyping-by-sequencing (GBS) is becoming an attractive alternative to array-based methods for genotyping individuals for a large number of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). Costs can be lowered by reducing the mean sequencing depth, but this results in genotype calls of lower quality. A common analysis strategy is to filter SNPs to just those with sufficient depth, thereby greatly reducing the number of SNPs available. We investigate methods for estimating relatedness using GBS data, including results of low depth, using theoretical calculation, simulation and application to a real data set.\n\nResults\nWe show that unbiased estimates of relatedness can be obtained by using only those SNPs with genotype calls in both individuals. The expected value of this estimator is independent of the SNP depth in each individual, under a model of genotype calling that includes the special case of the two alleles being read at random. In contrast, the estimator of self-relatedness does depend on the SNP depth, and we provide a modification to provide unbiased estimates of self-relatedness. We refer to these methods of estimation as kinship using GBS with depth adjustment (KGD). The estimators can be calculated using matrix methods, which allow efficient computation. Simulation results were consistent with the methods being unbiased, and suggest that the optimal sequencing depth is around 2-4 for relatedness between individuals and 5-10 for self-relatedness. Application to a real data set revealed that some SNP filtering may still be necessary, for the exclusion of SNPs which did not behave in a Mendelian fashion. A simple graphical method (a \u2018fin plot\u2019) is given to illustrate this issue and to guide filtering parameters.\n\nConclusion\nWe provide a method which gives unbiased estimates of relatedness, based on SNPs assayed by GBS, which accounts for the depth (including zero depth) of the genotype calls. This allows GBS to be applied at read depths which can be chosen to optimise the information obtained. SNPs with excess heterozygosity, often due to (partial) polyploidy or other duplications can be filtered based on a simple graphical method.', u'The demographic history of most species is complex, with multiple evolutionary processes combining to shape the observed patterns of genetic diversity. To infer this history, the discipline of phylogeography has (to date) used models that simplify the historical demography of the focal organism, for example by assuming or ignoring ongoing gene flow between populations or by requiring a priori specification of divergence history. Since no single model incorporates every possible evolutionary process, researchers rely on intuition to choose the models that they use to analyze their data. Here, we develop an approach to circumvent this reliance on intuition. PHRAPL allows users to calculate the probability of a large number of demographic histories given their data, enabling them to identify the optimal model and produce accurate parameter estimates for a given system. Using PHRAPL, we reanalyze data from 19 recent phylogeographic investigations. Results indicate that the optimal models for most datasets parameterize both gene flow and population divergence, and suggest that species tree methods (which do not consider gene flow) are overly simplistic for most phylogeographic systems. These results highlight the importance of phylogeographic model selection, and reinforce the role of phylogeography as a bridge between population genetics and phylogenetics.', u'In animals, before the zygotic genome is expressed, the egg already contains gene products deposited by the mother. These maternal products are crucial during the initial steps of development. In Drosophila melanogaster a large number of maternal products are found in the oocyte, some of which are indispensable. Many of these products are RNA molecules, such as gene transcripts and ribosomal RNAs. Recently, microRNAs ? small RNA gene regulators ? have been detected early during development and are important in these initial steps. The presence of some microRNAs in unfertilized eggs has been reported, but whether they have a functional impact in the egg or early embryo has not being explored. I have extracted and sequenced small RNAs from Drosophila unfertilized eggs. The unfertilized egg is rich in small RNAs and contains multiple microRNA products. Maternal microRNAs are often encoded within the intron of maternal genes, suggesting that many maternal microRNAs are the product of transcriptional hitch-hiking. Comparative genomics analyses suggest that maternal transcripts tend to avoid target sites for maternal microRNAs. I also developed a microRNA target mutation model to study the functional impact of polymorphisms at microRNA target sites. The analysis of Drosophila populations suggests that there is selection against maternal microRNA target sites in maternal transcripts. A potential role of the maternal microRNA mir-9c in maternal-to-zygotic transition is also discussed. In conclusion, maternal microRNAs in Drosophila have a functional impact in maternal protein-coding transcripts.', u'Collective cell responses to exogenous cues depend on cell-cell interactions. In principle, these can result in enhanced sensitivity to weak and noisy stimuli. However, this has not yet been shown experimentally, and, little is known about how multicellular signal processing modulates single cell sensitivity to extracellular signaling inputs, including those guiding complex changes in the tissue form and function. Here we explored if cell-cell communication can enhance the ability of cell ensembles to sense and respond to weak gradients of chemotactic cues. Using a combination of experiments with mammary epithelial cells and mathematical modeling, we find that multicellular sensing enables detection of and response to shallow Epidermal Growth Factor (EGF) gradients that are undetectable by single cells. However, the advantage of this type of gradient sensing is limited by the noisiness of the signaling relay, necessary to integrate spatially distributed ligand concentration information. We calculate the fundamental sensory limits imposed by this communication noise and combine them with the experimental data to estimate the effective size of multicellular sensory groups involved in gradient sensing. Functional experiments strongly implicated intercellular communication through gap junctions and calcium release from intracellular stores as mediators of collective gradient sensing. The resulting integrative analysis provides a framework for understanding the advantages and limitations of sensory information processing by relays of chemically coupled cells.', u'The numerical model of one-loop circulation exploits viscous deformation as mechanism of ventricular filling. Mathematical advantage of viscous deforming is a possibility to present the ventricular filling as the function of two independent variables (stress and time); two-dimensional argument frames a table which permits to calculate end-diastolic ventricular volume due to information about measured venous pressure and duration of ventricular diastole. The equation was deduced which balances the system while varying of such parameters as arterial resistance, the value of normal rhythm and volume flow rate. The model explains the phenomenon of asymmetrical position of normal value of rhythm, i.e. the model explains why the range of working brady-rhythms is much narrower than the range of working tachy-rhythms.', u'The parthenogenetic all-female marbled crayfish is a novel research model and potent invader of freshwater ecosystems. It is a triploid descendant of the sexually reproducing slough crayfish, Procambarus fallax, but its taxonomic status has remained unsettled. By cross-breeding experiments and parentage analysis we show here that marbled crayfish and P. fallax are reproductively separated. Both crayfish copulate readily, suggesting that the reproductive barrier is set at the cytogenetic rather than the behavioural level. Analysis of complete mitochondrial genomes of marbled crayfish from laboratory lineages and wild populations demonstrates genetic identity and indicates a single origin. Flow cytometric comparison of DNA contents of haemocytes and analysis of nuclear microsatellite loci confirm triploidy and suggest autopolyploidization as its cause. Global DNA methylation is significantly reduced in marbled crayfish implying the involvement of molecular epigenetic mechanisms in its origination. Morphologically, both crayfish are very similar but growth and fecundity are considerably larger in marbled crayfish, making it a different animal with superior fitness. These data and the high probability of a divergent future evolution of the marbled crayfish and P. fallax clusters suggest that marbled crayfish should be considered as an independent asexual species. Our findings also establish the P. fallax-marbled crayfish pair as a novel paradigm for rare chromosomal speciation by autopolyploidy and parthenogenesis in animals and for saltational evolution in general.', u'Super-enhancers are the clusters of transcriptional enhancers that can drive cell-type-specific gene expression and also crucial in cell identity. Many disease-associated sequence variations are enriched in super-enhancer regions of disease-relevant cell types. Thus, super-enhancers can be used as potential biomarkers for disease diagnosis and therapeutics. Current studies have identified super-enhancers in more than 100 cell types and demonstrated their functional importance. However, no centralized resource to integrate all these findings is available yet. We developed dbSUPER (http://bioinfo.au.tsinghua.edu.cn/dbsuper/), the first integrated and interactive database of super-enhancers, with the primary goal of providing a resource for assistance in further studies related to transcriptional control of cell identity and disease. dbSUPER provides a responsive and user-friendly web interface to facilitate efficient and comprehensive search and browsing. The data can be easily sent to Galaxy instances, GREAT and Cistrome web servers for downstream analysis, and can be visualized in UCSC genome browser while custom tracks added automatically. The data can be downloaded and exported in variety of formats. Further, dbSUPER lists genes associated with the super-enhancers and links to various other databases such as GeneCards, UniProt and Entrez. dbSUPER also provides an overlap analysis tool, to annotate user defined regions. We believe dbSUPER is a valuable resource for the biologists and genetic research communities.', u"Portable DNA sequencers such as the Oxford Nanopore MinION device have the potential to be truly disruptive technologies, facilitating new approaches and analyses and, in some cases, taking sequencing out of the lab and into the field. However, the capabilities of these technologies are still being revealed. Here we show that single-molecule cDNA sequencing using the MinION accurately characterises venom toxin-encoding genes in the painted saw-scaled viper, Echis coloratus. We find the raw sequencing error rate to be around 12%, improved to 0-2% with hybrid error correction and 3% with de novo error correction. Our corrected data provides full coding sequences and 5' and 3' UTRs for 29 of 33 candidate venom toxins detected, far superior to Illumina data (13/40 complete) and Sanger-based ESTs (15/29). We suggest that, should the current pace of improvement continue, the MinION will become the default approach for cDNA sequencing in a variety of species.", u'As the shear volume of bioinformatic sequence data increases the only way to take advantage of this content is to more completely automate robust analysis workflows. Analysis bottlenecks are often mundane and overlooked processing steps. Idiosyncrasies in reading and/or writing bioinformatics file formats can halt or impair analysis workflows by interfering with the transfer of data from one informatics tools to another. Fasta-O-Matic automates handling of common but minor format issues that otherwise may halt pipelines. The need for automation must be balanced by the need for manual confirmation that any formatting error is actually minor rather than indicative of a corrupt data file. To that end Fasta-O-Matic reports any issues detected to the user with optionally color coded and quiet or verbose logs.\n\nFasta-O-Matic can be used as a general pre-processing tool in bioinformatics workflows (e.g. to automatically wrap FASTA files so that they can be read by BioPerl). It was also developed as a sanity check for bioinformatic core facilities that tend to repeat common analysis steps on FASTA files received from disparate sources. Fasta-O-Matic can be set with format requirements specific to downstream tools as a first step in a larger analysis workflow.\n\nFasta-O-Matic is available free of charge to academic and non-profit institutions at https://github.com/i5K-KINBRE-script-share/read-cleaning-format-conversion/tree/master/KSU_bioinfo_lab/fasta-o-matic.', u'The environmental effects of ischemia on chromatin nanostructure were evaluated using single\nmolecule localisation microscopy (SMLM) of DNA binding dyes. Short-term oxygen and nutrient\ndeprivation (OND) of the cardiomyocyte cell-line HL-1induces a previously undescribed chromatin\narchitecture, consisting of large, chromatin sparse voids interspersed between DNA-dense hollow\nhelicoid structures of the order of 40 to 700 nm in dimension. OND induced chromatin compaction is\nreversible, and upon restitution of normoxia and nutrients, chromatin transiently adopts a significantly\nmore open structure than in untreated cells. We show that this compacted state of chromatin reduces\ntranscription, while the open chromatin structure following recovery has a higher transcriptional rate\nthan in untreated cells. Digestion of chromatin with DNAseI and DNA binding dye loading assays\nconfirm that OND induces compaction of chromatin and a general redistribution of chromatin to the\nnuclear periphery. Mechanistically, chromatin compaction is associated with a depletion of\nintracellular ATP and a redistribution of the cellular polyamine pool into the nucleus. Additionally,\nFluorescence Recovery After Photobleaching (FRAP) shows that core histones are not displaced from\ncompacted chromatin and that the mobility of linker histone H1 is considerably reduced by OND\ntreatment, to an extent that far exceeds the difference in histone H1 mobility between heterochromatin\nand euchromatin. These studies exemplify the dynamic capacity of chromatin architecture to\nphysically respond to environmental conditions, directly link cellular energy status to chromatin\ncompaction and provide insight into the effect ischemia has on the nuclear architecture of cells.', u'The capability to rapidly design proteins with novel functions will have a significant impact on medicine, biotechnology, and synthetic biology. Synthetic genes are becoming a commodity, but integrated approaches have yet to be developed that take full advantage of gene synthesis. We developed a solid-phase gene synthesis method based on asymmetric primer extension (APE) and coupled this process directly to high-throughput, on-chip protein expression, purification, and characterization (mechanically induced trapping of molecular interactions, MITOMI). By completely circumventing molecular cloning and cell-based steps, APE-MITOMI reduces the time between protein design and quantitative characterization to 3-4 days. With APE- MITOMI we synthesized and characterized over 440 zinc-finger (ZF) transcription factors (TF), showing that although ZF TFs can be readily engineered to recognize a particular DNA sequence, engineering the precise binding energy landscape remains challenging. We also found that it is possible to engineer ZF \u2013 DNA affinity precisely and independently of sequence specificity and that in silico modeling can explain some of the observed affinity differences. APE-MITOMI is a generic approach that should facilitate fundamental studies in protein biophysics, and protein design/engineering.', u'The rapid development of high throughput experimental techniques has resulted in a growing diversity of genomic datasets being produced and requiring analysis. A variety of computational techniques allow us to analyse such data and to model the biological processes behind them.  However, it is increasingly being recognised that we can gain deeper understanding by combining the insights obtained from multiple, diverse datasets.  We therefore require scalable computational approaches for data fusion.   \n\nWe propose a novel methodology for scalable unsupervised data fusion. Our technique exploits network representations of the data in order to identify (and quantify) similarities  among the datasets.  We may work within the Bayesian formalism, using Bayesian nonparametric approaches to model each dataset; or (for fast, approximate, and massive scale data fusion) can naturally switch to more heuristic modelling techniques.    \nAn advantage of the proposed approach is that each dataset can initially be modelled independently (and therefore in parallel), before applying a fast post-processing step in order to perform data fusion.  This allows us to incorporate new experimental data in an online fashion, without having to rerun all of the analysis.  The methodology can be applied to genomic scale datasets and we demonstrate its applicability on examples from the literature, using a broad range of genomic datasets, and also on a recent gene expression dataset from Sporadic inclusion body myositis.', u'Cancer cells have a more hyperpolarised mitochondrial membrane potential (\u03a8) than normal cells. \u03a8 = ~-220 mV in cancer cells as compared to ~-140 mV in normal cells. Until now it has not been known why. This paper explains this disparity, in a mathematical framework, and identifies molecular targets and operations unique to cancer cells. These are thence prospective cancer drug targets. BMS-199264 is proposed as an anti-cancer drug. It inhibits the reverse, proton-pumping mode of ATP synthase, which this paper identifies as crucial to cancer cells but not to healthy, normal adult cells. In the cancer cell model, the adenine nucleotide exchanger (ANT) is inversely orientated in the mitochondrial inner membrane as compared to normal cells. This predicts it to have a different drug interaction profile, which can be leveraged for cancer therapy. Uncouplers, which dissipate the proton motive force, are proposed as anti-cancer medicines e.g. 2,4-dinitrophenol.', u'Isolation of endogenous proteins from Saccharomyces cerevisiae has been facilitated by inserting encoding polypeptide affinity tags at the C-termini of chromosomal open reading frames (ORFs) using homologous recombination of DNA fragments.  The tagged protein isolation is limited by a number of factors, including high cost of affinity resins for bulk isolation and low concentration of ligands on the resin surface, leading to low isolation efficiencies and trapping of contaminants.  To address this we have created a recombinant \u201cCelTag\u201d DNA construct from which PCR fragments can be created to easily tag C-termini of S. cerevisiae ORFs using selection for a nat1 marker.  The tag has a C-terminal cellulose binding module to be used in the first affinity step.  Microgranular cellulose is very inexpensive and has an effectively continuous ligand on its surface, allowing rapid, highly efficient purification with minimal background in a single step. Cellulose-bound proteins are released by specific cleavage of an included site for TEV protease, giving nearly pure product. The tag can be lifted from the recombinant DNA construct either with or without a 13x myc epitope tag between the target ORF and the TEV protease site. Binding of CelTag protein fusions to cellulose is stable to high salt, nonionic detergents, and 1 M urea, allowing stringent washing conditions to remove loosely associated components, as needed, before specific elution.  It is anticipated that this reagent will allow isolation of rare or unstable protein complexes from large quantities of yeast extract, including soluble, membrane-bound, or chromatin-associated assemblies.', u'Honey bees are exposed to a variety of environmental stressors that impact their health, including nutritional stress, pathogens, and chemicals in the environment. In particular, there has been increasing evidence that sublethal exposure to pesticides can cause subtle, yet important effects on honey bee health and behavior. Here, we add to this body of knowledge by presenting data on bee-collected pollen containing sublethal levels of cyhalothrin, a pyrethroid insecticide, which, when fed to young honey bees, results in significant changes in lifespan, nutritional physiology, and behavior. For the first time, we show that when young, nest-aged bees are presented with pollen containing field-relevant levels of cyhalothrin, they reduce their consumption of contaminated pollen. This indicates that, at least for some chemicals, young bees are able to detect contamination in pollen and change their behavioral response, even if the contamination levels do not prevent foraging honey bees from collecting the contaminated pollen.', u'SUMMARY: Modern implementations of forward population genetic simulations are efficient and flexible, enabling the exploration of complex models that may otherwise be intractable. Here we describe an updated version of SFS_CODE, which has increased efficiency and includes many novel features.  Among these features is an arbitrary model of dominance, the ability to simulate partial and soft selective sweeps, as well as track the trajectories of mutations and/or ancestries across multiple populations under complex models that are not possible under a coalescent framework. We also release sfs_coder, a Python wrapper to SFS_CODE allowing the user to easily generate command lines for common models of demography, selection, and human genome structure, as well as parse and simulate phenotypes from SFS_CODE output.\nAvailability and Implementation: Our open source software is written in C and Python, and are available under the GNU General Public License at http://sfscode.sourceforge.net.\nContact: ryan.hernandez@ucsf.edu\nSupplementary information: Detailed usage information is available from the project website at http://sfscode.sourceforge.net.', u'Background:\nVaccines dramatically affect an individual\u2019s adaptive immune system, and thus provide an excellent means to study human immunity. Upon vaccination, the B cells that express antibodies (Abs) that happen to bind the vaccine are stimulated to proliferate and undergo mutagenesis at their Ab locus. This process may alter the composition of B cell lineages within an individual, which are known collectively as the antibody repertoire (AbR). Antibodies are also highly expressed in whole blood, potentially enabling unbiased RNA sequencing technologies to query this diversity. Less is known about the diversity of AbR responses across individuals to a given vaccine and if individuals tend to yield a similar response to the same antigenic stimulus.\n\nMethods:\nHere we implement a bioinformatic pipeline that extracts the AbR information from a time-series RNA-seq dataset of 5 patients who were administered a seasonal trivalent influenza vaccine (TIV). We harness the detailed time-series nature of this dataset and use methods based in functional data analysis (FDA) to identify the B cell lineages that respond to the vaccine. We then design and implement rigorous statistical tests in order to ask whether or not these patients exhibit a convergent AbR response to the same TIV. \n\nResults:\nWe find that high-resolution time-series data can be used to help identify the Ab lineages that respond to an antigenic stimulus, and that this response can exhibit a convergent nature across patients inoculated with the same vaccine. However, correlations in AbR diversity among individuals prior to inoculation can confound inference of a convergent signal unless it is taken into account.\n\nConclusions:\nWe developed a framework to identify the elements of an AbR that respond to an antigen. This information could be used to understand the diversity of different immune responses in different individuals, as well as to gauge the effectiveness of the immune response to a given stimulus within an individual.  We also present a framework for testing a convergent hypothesis between AbRs; a hypothesis that is more difficult to test than previously appreciated. Our discovery of a convergent signal suggests that similar epitopes do select for antibodies with similar sequence characteristics.', u'Variation is the spice of life or, in the case of evolution, variation is the necessary material on which selection can act to enable adaptation. Karyotypic variation in ploidy (the number of homologous chromosome sets) and aneuploidy (imbalance in the number of chromosomes) are fundamentally different than other types of genomic variants. Karyotypic variation emerges through different molecular mechanisms than other mutational events, and unlike mutations that alter the genome at the base pair level, rapid reversion to the wild type chromosome number is often possible. Although karyotypic variation has long been noted and discussed by biologists, interest in the importance of karyotypic variants in evolutionary processes has spiked in recent years, and much remains to be discovered about how karyotypic variants are produced and subsequently selected.', u'Annelida represents a large and morphologically diverse group of bilaterian organisms. The recently published polychaete and leech genome sequences revealed an equally dynamic range of diversity at the genomic level. The availability of more annelid genomes will allow for the identification of evolutionary genomic events that helped shape the annelid lineage and better understand the diversity within the group. We sequenced and assembled the genome of the common earthworm, Eisenia fetida. As a first pass at understanding the diversity within the group, we classified 440 earthworm homeoboxes and compared them to those of the leech Helobdella robusta and the polychaete Capitella teleta. We inferred many gene expansions occurring in the lineage connecting the most recent common ancestor (MRCA) of Capitella and Eisenia to the Eisenia/Helobdella MRCA. Likewise, the lineage leading from the Eisenia/Helobdella MRCA to the leech Helobdella robusta has experienced substantial gains and losses. However, the lineage leading from Eisenia/Helobdella MRCA to E. fetida is characterized by extraordinary levels of homeobox gain. The evolutionary dynamics observed in the homeoboxes of these lineages are very likely to be generalizable to all genes. These genome expansions and losses have likely contributed to the remarkable biology exhibited in this group. These results provide a new perspective from which to understand the diversity within these lineages, show the utility of sub-draft genome assemblies for understanding genomic evolution, and provide a critical resource from which the biology of these animals can be studied. The genome data can be accessed through the Eisenia fetida Genome Portal: http://ryanlab.whitney.ufl.edu/genomes/Efet/', u'Pseudomonas syringae pv. phaseolicola (Pph) is a significant bacterial pathogen of agricultural crops, and phage \u03c66 and other members of the dsRNA virus family Cystoviridae undergo lytic (virulent) infection of Pph, using the type IV pilus as the initial site of cellular attachment. Despite the popularity of Pph/phage \u03c66 as a model system in evolutionary biology, Pph resistance to phage \u03c66 remains poorly characterized. To investigate differences between phage \u03c66 resistant Pph strains, we examined genomic and gene expression variation among three bacterial genotypes that differ in the number of type IV pili expressed per cell: ordinary (wild-type), non-piliated, and super-piliated. Genome sequencing of non-piliated and super-piliated Pph identified few mutations that separate these genotypes from wild type Pph \u2013 and none present in genes known to be directly involved in type IV pilus expression. Expression analysis revealed that 81.1% of GO terms up-regulated in the non-piliated strain were down-regulated in the super-piliated strain. This differential expression is particularly prevalent in genes associated with respiration \u2014 specifically genes in the tricarboxylic acid cycle (TCA) cycle, aerobic respiration, and acetyl-CoA metabolism. The expression patterns of the TCA pathway appear to be generally up and down-regulated, in non-piliated and super-piliated Pph respectively. As pilus retraction is mediated by an ATP motor, loss of retraction ability might lead to a lower energy draw on the bacterial cell, leading to a different energy balance than wild type. The lower metabolic rate of the super-piliated strain is potentially a result of its loss of ability to retract.', u'1. There is a growing realization among community ecologists that interactions\nbetween species vary in space and time. Yet, our current numerical framework to\nanalyze the structure of interactions, largely based on graph-theoretical\napproaches, is unsuited to this type of data. Since the variation of species\ninteractions holds much information, there is a need to develop new metrics to\nexploit it.\n2. We present analytical expressions of key network metrics, using a\nprobabilistic framework. Our approach is based on modeling each interaction as a\nBernoulli event, and using basic calculus to express the expected value, and\nwhen mathematically tractable, its variance. We provide a free and open-source\nimplementation of these measures.\n3. We show that our approach allows to overcome limitations of both neglecting\nthe variation of interactions (over-estimation of rare events) and using\nsimulations (extremely high computational demand). We present a few case studies\nthat highlight how these measures can be used.\n4. We conclude this contribution by discussing how the sampling and data\nrepresentation of ecological network can be adapted to better allow the\napplication of a fully probabilistic numerical framework.', u'During meiosis, homologous chromosomes associate to form a unique structure called synaptonemal complex (SC) whose disruption leads to infertility. Information about the epigenetic features of chromatin within this structure at the level of super-resolution microscopy is largely lacking. We combined single molecule localization microscopy with quantitative analytical methods to describe the epigenetic landscape of meiotic chromosomes at the pachytene stage in mouse oocytes. DNA is found to be non-randomly distributed along the length of the SC in condensed clusters. Periodic clusters of repressive chromatin (trimethylation of histone H3 at lysine 27, H3K27me3) are found at 500 nm intervals along the SC, while one of the ends of SC displays a large and dense cluster of centromeric histone mark (trimethylation of histone H3 at lysine 9, H3K9me3). Chromatin associated with active transcription (trimethylation of histone H3 at lysine 4, H3K4me3) is arranged in a radial hair-like loop pattern emerging laterally from the SC. These loops seem to be punctuated with small clusters of H3K4me3 mark with an average spread larger than their spacing. Our findings indicate that the nanoscale structure of the pachytene chromosomes is constrained by periodic patterns of chromatin marks, whose function  in recombination and higher-order genome organisation is yet to be elucidated.', u'Biologists are increasingly using curated, public data sets to conduct phylogenetic comparative analyses. Unfortunately, there is often a mismatch between species for which there is phylogenetic data and those for which other data is available. As a result, researchers are commonly forced to either drop species from analyses entirely or else impute the missing data. Here we outline a simple solution to increase the overlap while avoiding potential the biases introduced by imputing data.  If some external topological or taxonomic information is available, this can be used to maximize the overlap between the data and the phylogeny. We develop an algorithm that replaces a species lacking data with a species  that has data. This swap can be made because for those two species, all phylogenetic relationships are exactly equivalent. We have implemented our method in a new R package phyndr, which will allow researchers to apply our algorithm to empirical data sets. It is relatively efficient such that taxon swaps can be quickly computed, even for large trees. To facilitate the use of taxonomic knowledge we created a separate data package taxonlookup; it contains a curated, versioned taxonomic lookup for land plants and is interoperable with phyndr. Emerging online databases and statistical advances are making it possible for researchers to investigate evolutionary questions at unprecedented scales. However, in this effort species mismatch among data sources will increasingly be a problem; evolutionary informatics tools, such as phyndr and taxonlookup, can help alleviate this issue.', u"Projection analysis is a useful tool for understanding the relationship of two populations. It compares a test genome to a set of genomes from a reference population. The projection's shape depends on the historical relationship of the test genome's population to the reference population. Here, we explore the effects on the projection when ancient samples are included in the analysis. First, we conduct a series of simulations in which the ancient sample is directly ancestral to a present-day population (one-population model) or the ancient sample is ancestral to a sister population that diverged before the time of sampling (two-population model). We find that there are characteristic differences between the projections for the one-population and two-population models, which indicate that the projection can be used to determine whether a test genome is directly ancestral to a present day population or not. Second, we compute projections for several published ancient genomes. We compare three Neanderthals, the Denisovan and three ancient human genomes to European, Han Chinese and Yoruba reference panels. We use a previously constructed demographic model and insert these seven ancient genomes and assess how well the observed projections are recovered.", u'Males and females share many traits that have a common genetic basis, however selection on these traits often differs between the sexes leading to sexual conflict. Under such sexual antagonism, theory predicts the evolution of genetic architectures that resolve this sexual conflict. Yet, despite intense theoretical and empirical interest, the specific genetic loci behind sexually antagonistic phenotypes have rarely been identified, limiting our understanding of how sexual conflict impacts genome evolution and the maintenance of genetic diversity. Here, we identify a large effect locus controlling age at maturity in 57 salmon populations, an important fitness trait in which selection favours earlier maturation in males than females, and show it is a clear example of sex dependent dominance reducing intralocus sexual conflict and maintaining adaptive variation in wild populations. Using high density SNP data and whole genome re-sequencing, we found that vestigial-like family member 3 (VGLL3) exhibits sex-dependent dominance in salmon, promoting earlier and later maturation in males and females, respectively. VGLL3, an adiposity regulator associated with size and age at maturity in humans, explained 39.4% of phenotypic variation, an unexpectedly high effect size for what is usually considered a highly polygenic trait. Such large effects are predicted under balancing selection from either sexually antagonistic or spatially varying selection. Our results provide the first empirical example of dominance reversal permitting greater optimisation of phenotypes within each sex, contributing to the resolution of sexual conflict in a major and widespread evolutionary trade-off between age and size at maturity. They also provide key empirical evidence for how variation in reproductive strategies can be maintained over large geographical scales. We further anticipate these findings will have a substantial impact on population management in a range of harvested species where trends towards earlier maturation have been observed', u'Legumes interact with rhizobium convert N2 into ammonia for plant use. To investigate the plant basal nitrogen fixation mechanisms induced in response to Bradyrhizobium, differential gene expression in root of inoculated and mock-inoculated soybean was analysed by RNA-Seq. A total of 55787 transcripts were aligned to soybean genome reference sequences, 280 and 316 transcripts were found to be up- and down-regulated, respectively, in inoculated relative to mock-inoculated soybean???s root at V1 stage. Gene ontology (GO) analyses detected 104, 182 and 178 genes associated with cell component category, molecular function category and biological process category, respectively. Pathway analysis revealed that 98 differentiallly expressed genes (115 transcripts) involved in 169 biological pathways. We selected 19 differentially expressed genes and analyzed their expressions in mock-inoculated, inoculated USDA110 and CCBAU45436 using qRT-PCR. The results were consistent with those obtained from rhizobia infected RNA-Seq data. These showed that the results of RNA-Seq have reliability and universality. Additionally, this study showed some novel genes associated with nitrogen fixation process comparison with the previously identified QTLs.', u'Background: Most species of owls (Strigidae) represent cryptic species and their taxonomic study is in flux. In recent years, two new species of owls of the genus Strix have been described from the Arabian peninsula by different research teams. It has been suggested that one of these species, S. omanensis, is not a valid species but taxonomic comparisons have been hampered by the lack of specimens of S. omanensis, and the poor state of the holotype of S. butleri. \nMethods: Here we use new DNA sequence data to clarify the taxonomy and nomenclature of the S. butleri complex. We also report the capture of a single S. butleri in Mashhad, Iran.\nResults: A cytochrome b sequence of S. omanensis was found to be identical to that of the holotype of S. butleri, indicating that the name S. omanensis is best regarded as a junior synonym of S. butleri. The identity of the S. butleri captured in Mashhad, Iran, was confirmed using DNA sequence data. This represents a major (1,400 km) range extension of this species. \nConclusions: The population discovered in Oman in 2013 and originally named \u2018S. omanensis\u2019 actually represents the rediscovery of S. butleri, which was known from a single specimen and had not been recorded since 1878. The range of S. butleri extends into northeast Iran. Our study augments the body of evidence for the recognition of S. butleri and S. hadorami as separate species and highlights the importance of using multiple evidence to study cryptic owl species.', u'Phytophthora sojae is a pathogenic oomycete that infects soybean seedlings as well as stems and roots of established plants, costing growers $1\u20132 billion per year. Due to its economic importance, P. sojae has become a model for the study of oomycete genetics, physiology and pathology. Despite the availability of several genome sequences, the lack of efficient techniques for targeted mutagenesis and gene replacement have long hampered genetic studies of pathogenicity in Phytophthora species. Here, we describe a CRISPR/Cas9 system enabling rapid and efficient genome editing in P. sojae. Using the RXLR effector gene Avr4/6 as target, we observed that in the absence of a homologous template, the repair of Cas9-induced double-strand breaks (DSBs) in P. sojae was mediated by non-homologous end joining (NHEJ), primarily resulting in short indels. Most mutants were homozygous, presumably due to gene conversion triggered by Cas9-mediated cleavage of non-mutant alleles. When donor DNA was present, homology directed repair (HDR) was observed, which resulted in the replacement of the target gene with the donor DNA.  By testing the specific virulence of several NHEJ mutants and HDR -mediated gene replacements on soybeans, we have validated the contribution of Avr4/6 to recognition by soybean R gene loci, Rps4 and Rps6, but also uncovered additional contributions to resistance by these two loci. Our results establish a powerful tool for studying functional genomics in Phytophthora, which provides new avenues for better control of this pathogen.', u'Motivation: We propose a method for estimating lipidome homologies analogous to the ones used in sequence analysis and phylogenetics. Results: Algorithms were developed to quantify the structural similarity between lipids and to compute chemical space models of sets of lipid structures and lipidomes. When all lipid molecules of the LIPIDMAPS structure database were mapped in such a chemical space, they automatically formed clusters corresponding to conventional chemical families. Homologies between the lipidomes of four yeast strains based on our LUX score reflected the genetic relationship, although the score is based solely on lipid structures. Source code availability: www.lux.fz-borstel.de', u'Errors segregating homologous chromosomes during meiosis result in the formation of aneuploid gametes and are the largest contributing factor to birth defects and spontaneous abortions in humans. Saccharomyces cerevisiae has long served as a model organism for studying the gene network supporting normal chromosome segregation. Current methods of measuring homolog nondisjunction frequencies are laborious and involve dissecting thousands of tetrads to detect missegregation of individually marked chromosomes. Here we describe a holistic computational approach to determine the relative contributions of meiosis I nondisjunction and random spore death in mutants with reduced spore viability. These values are based on best-fit distributions of 4, 3, 2, 1, and 0 viable-spore tetrads to observed distributions in mutant and wild-type strains. We show proof-of-principle using published data sets that the calculated average meiosis I nondisjunction frequency closely matches empirically determined values. This analysis also points to meiosis I nondisjunction as an intrinsic component of spore inviability in wild-type strains. We uncover two classes of mutants that show distinct relationships between nondisjunction death and random spore death. Class I mutants, including those with known defects in establishing and maintaining the physical engagement of homologous chromosomes display a 4-fold greater ratio of nondisjunction death to random spore death compared to Class II mutants, which include those with defects in sister chromatid cohesion. Low numbers of required tetrads facilitates epistasis analysis to probe genetic interactions. Finally the application of the R-Scripts does not require any special strain construction and can be applied to previously observed tetrad distributions.', u'Several strategies have been proposed to assign substitution models in phylogenomic datasets, or\npartitioning. The accuracy of these methods, and most importantly, their impact on phylogenetic\nestimation has not been thoroughly assessed using computer simulations. We simulated multiple\npartitioning scenarios to benchmark two a priori partitioning schemes (one model for the whole\nalignment, one model for each data block), and two statistical approaches (hierarchical clustering and\ngreedy) implemented in PartitionFinder and in our new program, PartitionTest. Most methods were\nable to identify optimal partitioning schemes closely related to the true one. Greedy algorithms identified\nthe true partitioning scheme more frequently than the clustering algorithms, but selected slightly less\naccurate partitioning schemes and tended to underestimate the number of partitions. PartitionTest\nwas several times faster than PartitionFinder, with equal or better accuracy. Importantly, maximum\nlikelihood phylogenetic inference was very robust to the partitioning scheme. Best-fit partitioning schemes\nresulted in optimal phylogenetic performance, without appreciable differences compared to the use\nof the true partitioning scheme. However, accurate trees were also obtained by a ?simple? strategy\nconsisting of assigning independent GTR+G models to each data block. On the contrary, leaving the\ndata unpartitioned always diminished the quality of the trees inferred, to a greater or lesser extent\ndepending on the simulated scenario. The analysis of empirical data confirmed these trends, although\nsuggesting a stronger influence of the partitioning scheme. Overall, our results suggests that statistical\npartitioning, but also the a priori assignment of independent GTR+G models, maximize phylogenomic\nperformance.', u'Background: Genome assembly remains an unsolved problem. Assembly projects face a range of hurdles that confound assembly. Thus a variety of tools and approaches are needed to improve draft genomes.\nResults: We used a custom assembly workflow to optimize consensus genome map assembly, resulting in an assembly equal to the estimated length of the Tribolium castaneum genome and with an N50 of more than 1 Mb. We used this map for super scaffolding the T. castaneum sequence assembly, more than tripling its N50 with the program Stitch.\nConclusions: In this article we present software that leverages consensus genome maps assembled from extremely long single molecule maps to increase the contiguity of sequence assemblies. We report the results of applying these tools to validate and improve a 7x Sanger draft of the T. castaneum genome.', u'Eukaryotic chromosomes initiate DNA synthesis from multiple replication origins in a\ntemporally specific manner during S phase. The replicative helicase Mcm2-7 functions in both\ninitiation and fork progression and thus is an important target of regulation. Mcm4, a helicase\nsubunit, possesses an unstructured regulatory domain that mediates control from multiple kinase\nsignaling pathways, including the Dbf4-dependent Cdc7 kinase (DDK). Following replication\nstress in S phase, Dbf4 and Sld3, an initiation factor and essential target of Cyclin-Dependent\nKinase (CDK), are targets of the checkpoint kinase Rad53 for inhibition of initiation from\norigins that have yet to be activated, so-called late origins. Here, whole genome DNA replication\nprofile analysis is employed to access under various conditions the effect of mutations that alter the Mcm4 helicase regulatory domain and the Rad53 targets, Sld3 and Dbf4. Late origin firing occurs under genotoxic stress when the controls on Mcm4, Sld3 and Dbf4 are simultaneously eliminated. The regulatory domain of Mcm4 plays an important role in the timing of late origin firing, both in an unperturbed S phase and dNTP limitation. Furthermore, checkpoint control of Sld3 impacts fork progression under replication stress. This effect is parallel to the role of the\nMcm4 regulatory domain in monitoring fork progression. Hypomorph mutations in sld3 are\nsuppressed by a mcm4 regulatory domain mutation. Thus, in response cellular conditions, the\nfunctions executed by Sld3, Dbf4 and the regulatory domain of Mcm4 intersect to control origin firing and replication fork progression, thereby ensuring genome stability.', u'A critical topic of insertional mutagenesis experiments performed on model organisms is mapping the hits of artificial transposons (ATs) at nucleotide level accuracy. Obviously, mapping errors may occur when sequencing artifacts or mutations as SNPs and small indels are present very close to the junction between a genomic sequence and a transposon inverted repeat (TIR). Another particular item of insertional mutagenesis is mapping of the transposon self-insertions and, to our best knowledge, there is no publicly available mapping tool designed to analyze such molecular events. We developed Genome ARTIST, a pairwise gapped aligner tool which works out both issues by means of an original, robust mapping strategy. Genome ARTIST is not designed to use NGS data but to analyze ATs insertions obtained in small to medium-scale mutagenesis experiments. Genome ARTIST employs a heuristic approach to find DNA sequence similarities and harnesses a multi-step implementation of a Smith-Waterman adapted algorithm to compute the mapping alignments. The experience is enhanced by easily customizable parameters and a user-friendly interface that describes the genomic landscape surrounding the insertion. Genome ARTIST deals with many genomes of bacteria and eukaryotes available in Ensembl and GenBank repositories. Our tool specifically harnesses/exploits the sequence annotation data provided by FlyBase for Drosophila melanogaster (the fruit fly), which enables mapping of insertions relative to various genomic features such as natural transposons. Genome ARTIST was tested against other alignment tools using relevant query sequences derived from the D. melanogaster and Mus musculus (mouse) genomes. Real and simulated query sequences were also comparatively inquired, revealing that Genome ARTIST is a very robust solution for mapping transposon insertions. \n\tGenome ARTIST is a stand-alone user-friendly application, designed for high-accuracy mapping of transposon insertions and self-insertions. The tool is also useful for routine aligning assessments like detection of SNPs or checking the specificity of primers and probes. Genome ARTIST is an open source software and is available for download at www.genomeartist.ro and at www.bioinformatics.org.', u'MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are emerging as important post-transcriptional regulators that may regulate key plant genes responsible for agronomic traits such as grain yield and stress tolerance. Several studies identified species and clades specific miRNA families associated with plant stress regulated genes. Here, we propose a novel resource that provides data related to the expression of abiotic stress responsive miRNAs in wheat, one of the most important staple food crops. This database allows the query of small RNA libraries, including in silico predicted wheat miRNA sequences and the expression profiles of small RNAs identified from those libraries. Our database also provides a direct access to online miRNA prediction software tuned to de novo miRNA detection in wheat, in monocotyledon clades, as well as in other plant species. These data and software will facilitate multiple comparative analyses and reproducible studies on small RNAs and miRNA families in plants. Our web-portal is available at: http://wheat.bioinfo.uqam.ca.', u'Objective: To compile a comprehensive summary of published human experience with levodopa given intravenously, with a focus on information required by regulatory agencies.\nBackground: While safe intravenous use of levodopa has been documented for over 50 years, regulatory supervision for pharmaceuticals given by a route other than that approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has become increasingly cautious. If delivering a drug by an alternate route raises the risk of adverse events, an investigational new drug (IND) application is required, including a comprehensive review of toxicity data.\nMethods: Over 200 articles referring to intravenous levodopa (IVLD) were examined for details of administration, pharmacokinetics, benefit and side effects.\nResults: We identified 142 original reports describing IVLD use in humans, beginning with psychiatric research in 1959-1960 before the development of peripheral decarboxylase inhibitors. At least 2781 subjects have received IVLD, and reported outcomes include parkinsonian signs, sleep variables, hormones, hemodynamics, CSF amino acid composition, regional cerebral blood flow, cognition, perception and complex behavior. Mean pharmacokinetic variables were summarized for 49 healthy subjects and 190 with Parkinson\u2019s disease. Side effects were those expected from clinical experience with oral levodopa and dopamine agonists. No articles reported deaths or induction of psychosis.\nConclusion: At least 2781 patients have received i.v. levodopa with a safety profile comparable to that seen with oral administration.', u'Aging is a complex continuous multifactorial process leading to loss of function and crystalizing into the many age-related diseases. Here, we explore the arguments for classifying aging as a disease in the context of the upcoming World Health Organization\u2019s 11th International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems (ICD-11), expected to be finalized in 2018. We hypothesize that classifying aging as a disease will result in new approaches and business models for addressing aging as a treatable condition, which will lead to both economic and healthcare benefits for all stakeholders. Classification of aging as a disease may lead to more efficient allocation of resources by enabling funding bodies and other stakeholders to use quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and healthy-years equivalent (HYE) as metrics when evaluating both research and clinical programs. We propose forming a Task Force to interface the WHO in order to develop a multidisciplinary framework for classifying aging as a disease.', u'DNA methylation has the potential to influence plant growth and development through its influence on gene expression.  To date, however, the evidence from plant systems is mixed as to whether patterns of DNA methylation vary significantly among tissues and, if so, whether these differences affect tissue-specific gene expression.  To address these questions, we analyzed both bisulfite sequence (BSseq) and transcriptomic sequence data from three biological replicates of two tissues (leaf and floral bud) from the model grass species Brachypodium distachyon.  Our first goal was to determine whether tissues were more differentiated in DNA methylation than explained by variation among biological replicates.  Tissues were more differentiated than biological replicates, but the analysis of replicated data revealed high (>50%) false positive rates for the inference of differentially methylated sites (DMSs) and differentially methylated regions (DMRs).  Comparing methylation to gene expression, we found that differential CG methylation consistently covaried negatively with gene expression, regardless as to whether methylation was within genes, within their promoters or even within their closest transposable element.  The relationship between gene expression and either CHG or CHH methylation was less consistent.  In total, CG methylation in promoters explained 9% of the variation in tissue-specific expression across genes, suggesting that CG methylation is a minor but appreciable factor in tissue differentiation.', u'One of the foundational results of molecular evolution is that the rate at which neutral substitutions accumulate on a lineage equals the rate at which mutations arise. Traits that affect rates of mutation therefore also affect the phylogenetic ?molecular clock?. We consider the effects of sex-specific generation times and mutation rates in species with two sexes. In particular, we focus on the effects that the age of onset of male puberty and rates of spermatogenesis have likely had in extant hominines (i.e., human, chimpanzee and gorilla), considering a model that approximates features of the mutational process in most mammals and birds and some other vertebrates. As we show, this model helps explain and reconcile a number of seemingly puzzling observations. In hominines, it can explain the puzzlingly low X-to-autosome ratios of substitution rates and how the ratios and rates of autosomal substitutions differ among lineages. Importantly, it suggests how to translate pedigree-based estimates of human mutation rates into split times among apes, given sex-specific life histories. In so doing, it helps bridge the gap between estimates of split times of apes based on fossil and molecular evidence. Finally, considering these effects can help to reconcile recent evidence that changes in generation times should have small effects on mutation rates in humans with classic studies suggesting that they have had major effects on rates of evolution in the mammalian phylogeny.', u'The Ten Eleven Translocation 1 (TET1) protein is a DNA demethylase that regulates gene expression through alteration of DNA methylation. Recent studies have demonstrated that TET1 could modulate transcriptional expression independent of its DNA demethylation activity; however, the detailed mechanisms underlying TET1\u2019s role in such transcriptional regulation remain not well understood. Here, we uncovered that Tet1 formed a chromatin complex with histone acetyltransferase Mof and scaffold protein Sin3a in mouse embryonic stem cells by integrative genomic analysis using publicly available ChIP-seq data sets. Specifically, the TET1/SIN3A/hMOF complex mediates acetylation of histone H4 at lysine 16, via facilitating the binding of hMOF on chromatin, to regulate expression of important DNA repair genes in DNA double strand breaks, including TP53BP1, RAD50, RAD51, and BRCA1, for homologous recombination and non-homologous end joining repairs. Under hydrogen peroxide-induced DNA damage, dissociation of TET1 and hMOF from chromatin, concurrent with increased binding of SIRT1 on chromatin, led to hypo-acetylation of H4K16, reduced expression of these DNA repair genes, and DNA repair defects in a DNA methylation independent manner. A similar epigenetic dynamic alteration was also observed in H-RASV12 oncogenic-transformed cells, supporting the notion that suppression of TET1 downregulates DNA repair genes through modifying H4K16ac, instead of its demethylation function, and therefore contribute to tumorigenesis. Taken together, our results suggested a mechanistic link between a novel TET1 complex and H4K16ac, DNA repair genes expression, and genomic instability.', u'Drug-induced prolongation of the QT interval on the electrocardiogram (long QT syndrome, LQTS) can lead to a potentially fatal ventricular arrhythmia called Torsades de Pointes (TdP). 180 drugs with both cardiac and non-cardiac indications have been found to increase risk for TdP, but drug-drug interactions contributing to LQTS (QT-DDIs) remain poorly characterized. Traditional methods for mining observational healthcare data are poorly equipped to detect QT-DDI signals due to low reporting numbers and a lack of direct evidence for LQTS. In this study we present an integrative data science pipeline that effectively circumvents these limitations by identifying latent signals for QT-DDIs in the FDA?s Adverse Event Reporting System and retrospectively validating these predictions using electrocardiogram data in electronic health records. We present 26 novel QT-DDIs flagged using this method that warrant further investigation.', u'Immune reconstitution kinetics and subsequent clinical outcomes in HLA matched recipients of allogeneic stem cell transplantation (SCT) are variable and difficult to predict. Considering SCT as a dynamical system, may allow sequence differences across the exomes of the transplant donors and recipients to be used to simulate an alloreactive T cell response, which may allow better clinical outcome prediction. To accomplish this, whole exome sequencing was performed on 34 HLA matched SCT donor-recipient pairs (DRP), and the nucleotide sequence differences translated to peptides. The binding affinity of the peptides to the relevant HLA in each DRP was determined. The resulting array of peptide-HLA binding affinity values in each patient was considered as an operator modifying a hypothetical T cell repertoire vector, in which each T cell clone proliferates in accordance to the logistic equation of growth. Using an iterating system of matrices, each simulated T cell clone\u2019s growth was calculated with the steady state population being proportional to the magnitude of the binding affinity of the driving HLA-peptide complex. Incorporating competition between T cell clones responding to different HLA-peptide complexes reproduces a number of features of clinically observed T cell clonal repertoire in the simulated repertoire. These include, sigmoidal growth kinetics of individual T cell clones and overall repertoire, Power Law clonal frequency distribution, increase in repertoire complexity over time with increasing clonal diversity and finally, alteration of clonal dominance when a different antigen array is encountered, such as in stem cell transplantation. The simulated, alloreactive T cell repertoire was markedly different in HLA matched DRP. The patterns were differentiated by rate of growth, and steady state magnitude of the simulated T cell repertoire and demonstrate a possible correlation with survival. In conclusion, exome wide sequence differences in DRP may allow simulation of donor alloreactive T cell response to recipient antigens and may provide a quantitative basis for refining donor selection and titration of immunosuppression following SCT.', u'Synthetic constructs in biotechnology, biocomputing, and modern gene therapy interventions are often based on plasmids or transfected circuits which implement some form of "on-off" switch.  For example, the expression of a protein used for therapeutic purposes might be triggered by the recognition of a specific combination of inducers (e.g., antigens), and memory of this event should be maintained across a cell population until a specific stimulus commands a coordinated shut-off.  The robustness of such a design is hampered by molecular ("intrinsic") or environmental ("extrinsic") noise, which may lead to spontaneous changes of state in a subset of the population and is reflected in the bimodality of protein expression, as measured for example using flow cytometry.  In this context, a "majority-vote" correction circuit, which brings deviant cells back into the desired state, is highly desirable, and quorum-sensing has been suggested as a way for cells to broadcast their states to the population as a whole so as to facilitate consensus.\n\nIn this paper, we propose what we believe is the first such design that has mathematically guaranteed properties of stability and auto-correction.  Our approach is guided by concepts and theory from the field of "monotone" dynamical systems developed by M.\\ Hirsch, H.\\ Smith, and others.  We benchmark our design by comparing it to an existing design which has been the subject of experimental and theoretical studies, illustrating its superiority in stability and self-correction of synchronization errors.  Our stability analysis, based on dynamical systems theory, guarantees global convergence to steady states, ruling out unpredictable ("chaotic") behaviors and even sustained oscillations.  These results are valid no matter what are the values of parameters, and are based only on the wiring diagram.  The theory is complemented by extensive computational bifurcation analysis, performed for a biochemically-detailed and biologically-relevant model that we developed.  Another novel feature of our approach is that our theorems on stability of steady states for homogeneous or mixed populations are valid independently of the number of cells in the population, and depend only on the relative proportions of each type of state.\n\nWhile monotone systems theory has been used previously for systems biology analysis, the current work illustrates its power for synthetic biology design, and thus has wider significance well beyond the application to the important problem of coordination of toggle switches.', u'Premise of the study: Clade specific bursts in diversification are often associated with the evolution of key innovations. However, in groups with no obvious morphological innovations, observed upticks in diversification rates have also been attributed to the colonization of a new geographic environment. In this study, we explore the systematics, diversification dynamics, and historical biogeography of the plant clade Rhinantheae in the Orobanchaceae, with a special focus on the Andean clade of the genus Bartsia L..\nMethods: We sampled taxa from across Rhinantheae, including a representative sample of Andean Bartsia species. Using standard phylogenetic methods, we reconstructed evolutionary relationships, inferred divergence times among the clades of Rhinantheae, elucidated their biogeographic history, and investigated diversification dynamics.\nKey results: We confirmed that the South American Bartsia species form a highly supported monophyletic group. The median crown age of Rhinantheae was determined to be ca. 30 Ma, and Europe played an important role in the biogeographic history of the lineages. South America was first reconstructed in the biogeographic analyses around 9 Ma, and with a median age of 2.59 Ma, this clade shows a significant uptick in diversification.\nConclusions: Increased net diversification of the South American clade corresponds with biogeographic movement into the New World. This happened at a time when the Andes were reaching the necessary elevation to host an alpine environment. Although a specific route could not be identified with certainty, we provide plausible hypotheses to how the group colonized the New World.', u'Motivation: Kmer-based analysis is a powerful method used\nin read error correction and implemented in various genome assembly\ntools. A number of read processing routines include extracting\nor removing sequence reads from the results of highthroughput\nsequencing experiments prior to further analysis. Here\nwe present a new approach to sorting or filtering of raw reads\nbased on a provided list of kmers.\nResults: We developed Cookiecutter \u2014 a computational tool\nfor rapid read extraction or removing according to a provided list\nof k-mers generated from a FASTA file. Cookiecutter is based on\nthe implementation of the Aho-Corasik algorithm and is useful in\nroutine processing of high-throughput sequencing datasets. Cookiecutter\ncan be used for both removing undesirable reads and read\nextraction from a user-defined region of interest.\nAvailability: The open-source implementation with user instructions\ncan be obtained from GitHub: https://github.com/\nad3002/Cookiecutter', u'This manuscript explores the viability of using optimal point process (Snyder) filters in order to estimate the underlying parameters of the variable population size coalescent process. Estimating these population parameters is an important area of research in phylodynamics, especially given the widespread use of the coalescent in modelling the relationship between the genetic diversity and epidemiological dynamics of human pathogens. A variety of coalescent estimators based on a diverse set of techniques, such as skyline plots, Bayesian and Markov Monte Carlo approaches, already exist. However, at times these methods are inflexible, or difficult to use and there is a need to explore new estimation techniques.\n\nThis Snyder filter is proposed here as a new alternative for optimal coalescent inference and parameter estimation. Through its application, first to a canonical set of demographic models and then to empirical data from the Hepatitis C epidemic in Egypt, the filter is shown both useful and capable. The Snyder filter is exact (makes no process approximations) and is optimal in mean square error. Since its implementation is simple and it was originally developed to estimate stochastic parameters, Snyder filtering holds much potential for coalescent estimation.', u'The fruit fly Drosophila simulans and its sister species D. mauritiana are a model system for studying the genetic basis of reproductive isolation, primarily because interspecific crosses produce sterile hybrid males and their phylogenetic proximity to D. melanogaster. We present an analysis of whole-genome patterns of polymorphism and divergence that shows, on average, the genomes of the two species differ at slightly more than 1% of nucleotide positions and an estimated 40% of autosomal and 60% of X linked loci are reciprocally monophyletic. However, the analysis also identifies 21 major genomic regions, comprising ~1% of the genome, in which one species is segregating for haplotypes that are more similar to haplotypes from the other species than expected, given the levels of sequence divergence in that genomic region. This disjoint distribution of interspecific coalescence times is consistent with recent introgression between the cosmopolitan D. simulans and the island endemic D. mauritiana. We find that the putatively introgressed regions are more likely to have significantly higher rates of crossing-over and are enriched for genes with significantly slower rates of protein evolution. We also uncover instances in which genes experiencing lineage-specific positive selection closely interact with genes experiencing introgression. Finally, we find that a large introgressing region on the X chromosome has experienced a strong selective sweep in D. mauritiana and also has high levels of homozygosity in D. simulans. A detailed analysis reveals that the introgressing X chromosome haplotypes are closely associated with the presence of the MDox locus, which is the progenitor of the Winters sex-ratio meiotic drive genes. These results highlight how genetic systems that evolve rapidly in allopatry, including selfish meiotic drive elements, remain robust in natural hybrid genotypes and do not systematically promote reproductive isolation.', u'A well-known DNA-damaging agent and carcinogen, ionizing radiation (IR) can also exert detrimental effects in cells not directly exposed to it, through "non-targeted effects" (NTE). Whilst NTE are known to contribute to radiation-induced damage, their mechanism of induction and propagation remains incompletely understood. To investigate the possible role of lysosomes, key subcellular organelles, in NTE we used acridine orange uptake and relocation methods to monitor lysosomal permeability in irradiated and bystander human fibroblasts. As a potential mediator of lysosomal changes, oxidative stress was measured using the H2DCFDA assay for total reactive oxygen species (ROS). IR was found to induce significant lysosomal permeability in the first hour post irradiation, with reduced permeability persisting up to 24 hours. This occurred in conjunction with an increase in ROS in directly irradiated cells, in contrast with a decrease in ROS in bystander cells. Based on these observations we constructed a simple mathematical model of ROS-induced lysosomal damage, based on a bistable mechanism where a sufficiently strong IR insult can shift a cell from a \'low ROS, high lysosome\' to a \'high ROS, low lysosome\' state. This has profound cellular implications in radiation response and advances our understanding for the sub-cellular involvement in non-targeted effects.', u'Background\nThe implantation of mechanical circulatory support (MCS) devices in heart failure patients is associated with a systemic inflammatory response, potentially leading to death from multiple organ dysfunction syndrome. Previous studies point to the involvement of many mechanisms, but an integrative hypothesis does not yet exist. Using time-dependent whole-genome mRNA expression in circulating leukocytes, we constructed a systems-model to improve mechanistic understanding and prediction of adverse outcomes.\n\nMethods\nWe sampled peripheral blood mononuclear cells from 22 consecutive patients undergoing MCS surgery, at 5 timepoints: day -1 preoperative, and days 1, 3, 5, and 8 postoperative. Phenotyping was performed using 12 clinical parameters, 2 organ dysfunction scoring systems, and survival outcomes. We constructed a systems-representation using weighted gene co-expression network analysis, and annotated eigengenes using gene ontology, pathway, and transcription factor binding site enrichment analyses. Genes and eigengenes were mapped to the clinical phenotype using a linear mixed-effect model, with Cox models also fit at each timepoint to survival outcomes. Finally, we selected top genes associated with survival across all timepoints, and trained a penalized Cox model, based on day -1 data, to predict mortality risk thereafter.\n\nResults\nWe inferred a 19-module network, in which most module eigengenes correlated with at least one aspect of the clinical phenotype. We observed a response to surgery orchestrated into stages: first, activation of the innate immune response, followed by anti-inflammation, and finally reparative processes such as mitosis, coagulation, and apoptosis. Eigengenes related to red blood cell production and extracellular matrix degradation became predictors of survival late in the timecourse, consistent with organ failure due to disseminated coagulopathy. Our final predictive model consisted of 10 genes: IL2RA, HSPA7, AFAP1, SYNJ2, LOC653406, GAPDHP35, MGC12916, ZRSR2, and two currently unidentified genes, warranting further investigation.\n\nConclusion\nOur model provides an integrative representation of leukocyte biology during the systemic inflammatory response following MCS device implantation. It demonstrates consistency with previous hypotheses, identifying a number of known mechanisms. At the same time, it suggests novel hypotheses about time-specific targets.', u'Dopaminergic (DA) neurons display two modes of firing: low-frequency tonic\nand high-frequency bursts. The high frequency firing within the bursts is attributed\nto NMDA, but not AMPA receptor activation. In our models of the DA neuron,\nboth biophysical and abstract, the NMDA receptor current can significantly increase\ntheir firing frequency, whereas the AMPA receptor current is not able to evoke\nhigh-frequency activity and usually suppresses firing. However, both currents are\nproduced by glutamate receptors and, consequently, are often co-activated. Here\nwe consider combined influence of AMPA and NMDA synaptic input in the models\nof the DA neuron. Different types of neuronal activity (resting state, low frequency,\nor high frequency firing) are observed depending on the conductance of the AMPAR\nand NMDAR currents. In two models, biophysical and reduced, we show that\nthe firing frequency increases more effectively if both receptors are co-activated for\ncertain parameter values. In particular, in the more quantitative biophysical model,\nthe maximal frequency is 40% greater than that with NMDAR alone. The dynamical\nmechanism of such frequency growth is explained in the framework of phase\nspace evolution using the reduced model. In short, both the AMPAR and NMDAR\ncurrents flatten the voltage nullcline, providing the frequency increase, whereas\nonly NMDA prevents complete unfolding of the nullcline, providing robust firing.\nThus, we confirm a major role of the NMDAR in generating high-frequency firing\nand conclude that AMPAR activation further significantly increases the frequency.', u'Mindfulness meditation has been practiced in the East for more than two millennia, but in last\nyears also Western neurscientists drown their attention to it. Mindfulness basically refers to\nmoment to moment awareness. In this review we summarize different hypotheses concerning\neffects of mindfulness meditation practice and cerebral correlates accounting for these;\nfurthermore we expose some of the most relevant theories dealing with different aspects of\nconsciousness. Finally we propose an integration of mindfulness meditation with\nconsciousness, supported by the identification of brain areas involved in both of them,\nnamely Anterior Cingular Cortex (ACC), Posterior Cingular Cortex (PCC), Insula and\nThalamus.', u'CTFFIND is a widely-used program for the estimation of objective lens defocus parameters from transmission electron micrographs. Defocus parameters are estimated by fitting a model of the microscope?s contrast transfer function (CTF) to an image?s amplitude spectrum. Here we describe modifications to the algorithm which make it significantly faster and more suitable for use with images collected using modern technologies such as dose fractionation and phase plates. We show that this new version preserves the accuracy of the original algorithm while allowing for higher throughput. We also describe a measure of the quality of the fit as a function of spatial frequency and suggest this can be used to define the highest resolution at which CTF oscillations were successfully modeled.', u'Yeast-based biosynthesis of medicinal compounds traditionally derived from plant materials is improving. Both concerns and hopes exist for the possibility that individual small volume batch fermentations could provide distributed and independent access to a diversity of compounds some of which are now abused, illegal, or unavailable to many who need for genuine medical purposes. However, there are differences between industrial bioreactors and \u2018home-brew\u2019 fermentation. We used engineered yeast that make thebaine, a morphinan opiate, to quantify if differences in fermentation conditions impact biosynthesis yields. We used yeast that make an English ale as a positive fermentation control. We observed no production of thebaine and miniscule amounts of reticuline, an upstream biosynthetic intermediate, in home-brew fermentations; the positive control was palatable. We suggest that additional technical challenges, some of which are unknown and likely unrelated to optimized production in large-volume bioreactors, would need to be addressed for engineered yeast to ever realize home-brew biosynthesis of medicinal opiates at meaningful yields.', u'This review is devoted to a consideration of the way in which the NADPH oxidase of neutrophils, NOX2, functions to enable the efficient killing of bacteria and fungi. It includes a critical examination of the current dogma that its primary purpose is the generation of hydrogen peroxide as substrate for myeloperoxide catalysed generation of hypochlorite. Instead it is demonstrated that NADPH oxidase functions to optimise the ionic and pH conditions within the vacuole for the solubilisation and optimal activity of the proteins released into this compartment from the cytoplasmic granules, which kill and digest the microbes. The general role of other NOX systems as electrochemical generators to alter the pH and ionic composition in compartments on either side of a membrane in plants and animals will also be examined.', u'Genetic differences in gene expression contribute significantly to phenotypic diversity and differences in disease susceptibility. In fact, the great majority of causal variants highlighted by genome-wide association are in non-coding regions that modulate expression. In order to quantify the extent of allelic differences in expression, we analyzed liver transcriptomes of isogenic F1 hybrid mice. Allele-specific expression (ASE) effects are pervasive and are detected in over 50% of assayed genes. Genes with strong ASE do not differ from those with no ASE with respect to their length or promoter complexity. However, they have a higher density of sequence variants, higher functional redundancy, and lower evolutionary conservation compared to genes with no ASE. Fifty percent of genes with no ASE are categorized as house-keeping genes. In contrast, the high ASE set may be critical in phenotype canalization. There is significant overlap between genes that exhibit ASE and those that exhibit strong cis expression quantitative trait loci (cis eQTLs) identified using large genetic expression data sets. Eighty percent of genes with cis eQTLs also have strong ASE effects. Conversely, 40% of genes with ASE effects are associated with strong cis eQTLs. Cis-acting variation detected at the protein level is also detected at the transcript level, but the converse is not true. ASE is a highly sensitive and direct method to quantify cis-acting variation in gene expression and complements and extends classic cis eQTL analysis. ASE differences can be combined with coding variants to produce a key resource of functional variants for precision medicine and genome-to-phenome mapping.', u'The oomycete Phytophthora infestans was the causal agent of the Irish Great Famine and is a recurring threat to global food security. The pathogen can reproduce both sexually and asexually and has a potential to adapt both abiotic and biotic environment. Although in many regions the A1 and A2 mating types coexist, the far majority of isolates belong to few clonal, asexual lineages. As other oomycetes, P. infestans is thought to be diploid during the vegetative phase of its life cycle, but it was observed that trisomy correlated with virulence and mating type locus and that polyploidy can occur in some isolates. It remains unknown about the frequency of polyploidy occurrence in nature and the relationship between ploidy level and sexuality. Here we discovered that the sexuality of P. infestans isolates correlates with ploidy by comparison of microsatellite fingerprinting, genome-wide polymorphism, DNA quantity, and chromosome numbers. The sexual progeny of P. infestans in nature are diploid, whereas the asexual lineages are mostly triploids, including successful clonal lineages US-1 and 13_A2. This study reveals polyploidization as an extra evolutionary risk to this notorious plant destroyer.', u'Neuroscience is entering the era of `extreme data` with little experience and few plans for the associated volume, velocity, variety, and veracity challenges. This is a serious impediment for both the sharing of data across labs, as well as the utilization of modern and high-performance computing capabilities to enable data driven discovery. Here, we introduce BRAINformat, a novel file format and model for management and storage of neuroscience data. The BRAINformat library defines application-independent design concepts and modules that together create a general framework for standardization of scientific data. \n\nWe describe the formal specification of scientific data standards, which facilitates sharing and verification of data and formats. We introduce the concept of Managed Objects, enabling semantic components of data formats to be specified as self-contained units, supporting modular and reusable design of data format components and file storage. The BRAINformat is built off of HDF5, enabling portable, scalable, and self-describing data storage. We introduce the novel concept of Relationship Attributes for modeling and use of semantic relationships between data objects, and discuss the annotation of data using dedicated data annotation modules provided by the BRAINformat library. Based on these concepts we implement dedicated, application-oriented modules and design a data standard for neuroscience data.The BRAINformat software library is open source, easy-to-use, and provides detailed user and developer documentation and is freely available at: https://bitbucket.org/oruebel/brainformat.', u'Tomasetti and Vogelstein (Science 347, 78\u201381, 2015) claimed that \u201cprimary prevention measures are not likely to be very effective\u201d for many cancers because they arise mostly from random mutations fixed during stem cell division, independently of specific genetic or environmental factors. We demonstrate that their calculation for hepatocellular carcinomas overlooked a major subset of tumors proven to be preventable through vaccination. The problem, which is not limited to hepatocellular carcinoma, arises from the general reliance of their analysis on average USA incidences and the omission of incidences in specific risk groups.', u'RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) experiments now span hundreds to thousands of samples. Current spliced alignment software is designed to analyze each sample separately. Consequently, no information is gained from analyzing multiple samples together, and it is difficult to reproduce the exact analysis without access to original computing resources. We describe Rail-RNA, a cloud-enabled spliced aligner that analyzes many samples at once. Rail-RNA eliminates redundant work across samples, making it more efficient as samples are added. For many samples, Rail-RNA is more accurate than annotation-assisted aligners. We use Rail-RNA to align 667 RNA-seq samples from the GEUVADIS project on Amazon Web Services in under 16 hours for US$0.91 per sample. Rail-RNA produces alignments and base-resolution bigWig coverage files, ready for use with downstream packages for reproducible statistical analysis. We identify expressed regions in the GEUVADIS samples and show that both annotated and unannotated (novel) expressed regions exhibit consistent patterns of variation across populations and with respect to known confounders. Rail-RNA is open-source software available at http://rail.bio.', u'Network-based analysis methods can help resolve coverage and inconsistency issues in proteomics data. Previously, it was demonstrated that a suite of rank-based network approaches (RBNAs) provides unparalleled consistency and reliable feature selection. However, reliance on the t-statistic/t-distribution and hypersensitivity (coupled to a relatively flat p-value distribution) makes feature prioritization for validation difficult. To address these concerns, a refinement based on the fuzzified Fisher exact test, Fuzzy-FishNet was developed. Fuzzy-FishNet is highly precise (providing probability values that allows exact ranking of features). Furthermore, feature ranks are stable, even in small sample size scenario. Comparison of features selected by genomics and proteomics data respectively revealed that in spite of relative feature stability, cross-platform overlaps are extremely limited, suggesting that networks may not be the answer towards bridging the proteomics-genomics divide.', u'Developmental gene networks implement the dynamic regulatory mechanisms that pattern and shape the organism. Over evolutionary time, the wiring of these networks changes, yet the patterning outcome is often preserved, a phenomenon known as \u201csystem drift\u201d. System drift is illustrated by the gap gene network\u2014involved in segmental patterning\u2014in dipteran insects. In the classic model organism Drosophila melanogaster and the non-model scuttle fly Megaselia abdita, early activation and placement of gap gene expression domains show significant quantitative differences, yet the final patterning output of the system is essentially identical in both species. In this detailed modeling analysis of system drift, we use gene circuits which are fit to quantitative gap gene expression data in M. abdita and compare them to an equivalent set of models from D. melanogaster. The results of this comparative analysis show precisely how compensatory regulatory mechanisms achieve equivalent final patterns in both species. We discuss the larger implications of the work in terms of \u201cgenotype networks\u201d and the ways in which the structure of regulatory networks can influence patterns of evolutionary change (evolvability).', u"In Drosophila embryogenesis, increasing either oxygen concentration or temperature accelerates development. Having investigated temperature's impact on embryogenesis, here we characterize the fundamentally different developmental response to oxygen levels. The reactions to temperature and oxygen are not independent, but operate primarily through different mechanisms, with developmental time being inversely proportional to oxygen concentration but logarithmically related to temperature. Changing oxygen concentrations greatly impact survival with developmental rate changes that are dwarfed by those induced by temperature. While extreme temperatures increase early embryo mortality, mild hypoxia increases arrest and death during mid-embryogenesis and mild hyperoxia increases survival over normoxia. Most notably, while development scales uniformly with temperature, modifying oxygen levels drives heterochronic changes. Morphological processes all change with oxygen concentration, but at different rates. Gut formation is more severely slowed by decreases in oxygen, while head involution and syncytial development are less impacted than the rest of development.  These data reveal that uniform scaling, seen with changes in temperature, is not the default result of adjusting developmental rate.", u'Organismal size depends on the interplay between genetic and environmental factors. Genome-wide association (GWA) analyses in humans have implied many genes in the control of height but suffer from the inability to control the environment. Genetic analyses in Drosophila have identified conserved signaling pathways controlling size; however, how these pathways control phenotypic diversity is unclear. We performed GWA of size traits using the Drosophila Genetic Reference Panel of inbred, sequenced lines. We find that the top associated variants differ between traits and sexes; do not map to canonical growth pathway genes, but can be linked to these by epistasis analysis; and are enriched for genes and putative enhancers. Performing GWA on well-studied developmental traits under controlled conditions expands our understanding of developmental processes underlying phenotypic diversity.', u'Primary amoebic meningoencephalitis (PAM) is a rare, often lethal cause of encephalitis, for which early diagnosis and prompt initiation of combination antimicrobials may improve clinical outcomes. In this study, we present the first draft assembly of the Balamuthia mandrillaris genome recovered from a rare survivor of PAM, in total comprising 49 Mb of sequence. Comparative analysis of the mitochondrial genome and high-copy number genes from 6 additional Balamuthia mandrillaris strains demonstrated remarkable sequence variation, with the closest homologs corresponding to other amoebae, hydroids, algae, slime molds, and peat moss,. We also describe the use of unbiased metagenomic next-generation sequencing (NGS) and SURPI bioinformatics analysis to diagnose an ultimately fatal case of Balamuthia mandrillaris encephalitis in a 15-year old girl. Real-time NGS testing of a hospital day 6 CSF sample detected Balamuthia on the basis of high-quality hits to 16S and 18S ribosomal RNA sequences present in the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) nt reference database. Retrospective analysis of a day 1 CSF sample revealed that more timely identification of Balamuthia by metagenomic NGS, potentially resulting in a better outcome, would have required availability of the complete genome sequence. These results underscore the diverse evolutionary origins underpinning this eukaryotic pathogen, and the critical importance of whole-genome reference sequences for microbial detection by NGS.', u'The first introns in eukaryotes are much longer than downstream introns. While the functional roles of large first introns have been studied extensively, investigations into the mechanisms leading up to extreme lengths are limited. Prominently, Hong et al. noted that the first introns are predominantly in 5\u2032 UTR and suggested that its lengthening may have resulted from a 5\u2032-ward shifting of donor site due to a lower selection on splice site, as well as a selection to occlude upstream cryptic translation start sites. Here we suggest exon skipping as an alternative mechanism for first intron lengthening. Exon skipping results in consecutive introns becoming part of a single longer intron. We reasoned that a 5\u2032-biased exon skipping rate could lead to longer introns toward the 5\u2032-end of the gene, especially the first intron. Based on multiple datasets in human and mouse, we indeed found that internal exons toward the 5\u2032-end of the gene are skipped significantly more frequently than the downstream exons. Importantly, we show that 5\u2032-biased exon skipping is supported by consistent 5\u2032-bias in several genomic, epigenomic, contextual, and evolutionary features that can be functionally linked to exon skipping. Interestingly, we found that first introns are enriched for relics of, now defunct, exons, some of which may have been recruited for regulatory functions; a significantly greater-than-expected fraction of such exons are included in cDNAs in other mammals. Overall, our results offer 5\u2032-biased exon skipping as a novel, and arguably more potent, alternative explanation for substantially lengthening of first introns.', u'To predict in vivo occupancy of a transcription factor (TF), current models consider only the immediate genomic context of a putative binding site (BS) \u2013 impact of the site\u2019s spatial chromatin context is not known. Using clusters of spatially proximal enhancers, or archipelagos, and DNase footprints to quantify TF occupancy, we report for the first time an emergent group-level effect on occupancy, whereby BS within an archipelago experience greater in vivo occupancy than comparable BS outside archipelagos, i.e. BS not in spatial proximity with other homotypic BS. This occupancy boost is tissue-specific and scales robustly with the total number of BS, or enhancers, for the TF in the archipelago. Interestingly, enhancers within an archipelago are non-uniformly impacted by the occupancy boost; specifically, archipelago enhancers that are enriched for BS corresponding to degenerate motifs exhibit the greatest occupancy boost, as well as the highest overall accessibility, evolutionary selection, and expression at neighboring gene loci. Strikingly, archipelago-wide activity scales with expression of TFs with degenerate, but not specific, motifs. We explain these results through biophysical modelling, which suggests that spatially proximal homotypic BS facilitate TF diffusion, and induce boosts in local TF concentration and occupancy. Together, we demonstrate for the first time cooperativity among genomically distal homotypic BS that is contingent upon their spatial proximity, consistent with a TF diffusion model. Through leveraging of three-dimensional chromatin structure and TF availability, weak archipelago binding sites crowdsource their occupancy as well as context specificity, with coordinated switch-like effect on overall archipelago activity.', u"Epistasis has long been thought to contribute to the genetic aetiology of complex diseases, yet few robust epistatic interactions in humans have been detected. We have conducted exhaustive genome-wide scans for pairwise epistasis in five independent celiac disease (CD) case-control studies, using a rapid model-free approach to examine over 500 billion SNP pairs in total. We found 20 significant epistatic signals within the HLA region which achieved stringent replication criteria across multiple studies and were independent of known CD risk HLA haplotypes. The strongest independent CD epistatic signal corresponded to genes in the HLA class III region, in particular PRRC2A and GPANK1/C6orf47, which are known to contain variants for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and early menopause, co-morbidities of celiac disease. Replicable evidence for epistatic variants outside the MHC was not observed. Both within and between European populations, we observed striking consistency of epistatic models and epistatic model distribution. Within the UK population, models of CD based on both epistatic and additive single-SNP effects increased explained CD variance by approximately 1% over those of single SNPs. Models of only epistatic pairs or additive single-SNPs showed similar levels of CD variance explained, indicating the existence of a substantial overlap of additive and epistatic components. Our findings have implications for the determination of genetic architecture and, by extension, the use of human genetics for validation of therapeutic targets.", u'Mesenchymal stromal cells (MSC) are widely used, isolated from a variety of tissues and increasingly adopted for cell therapy, but the identity of these cells is poorly defined and commonalities between MSC from different tissues sources is controversial. Here we undertook a comprehensive review of all public MSC expression studies to assess whether cells derived from different sources shared any common molecular attributes. In doing so, we discovered an over-arching transcriptional phenotype shared by a wide variety of MSC, freshly isolated or cultured cells, and under a variety of growth conditions. We developed a modified variable selection protocol that included cross platform normalisation, and assessment of the selected gene stability and informativeness. A 16-gene signature classified MSC with >97% accuracy, discriminating these from fibroblasts, other adult stem/progenitor cell types and differentiated cells. The genes form part of a protein-interaction network, and mutations in more than 65% of this network were associated with Mendelian disorders of skeletal growth or metabolism. The signature and accompanying datasets are provided as a community resource at www.stemformatics.org resource, and the method is available from the CRAN repository.', u'Background\nSecond and third generation sequencing technologies have revolutionised bacterial genomics. Short-read Illumina reads result in cheap but fragmented assemblies, whereas longer reads are more expensive but result in more complete genomes. The Oxford Nanopore MinION device is a revolutionary mobile sequencer that can produce thousands of long, single molecule reads.\nResults\nWe sequenced Bacteroides fragilis strain BE1 using both the Illumina MiSeq and Oxford Nanopore MinION platforms. We were able to assemble a single chromosome of 5.18 Mb, with no gaps, using publicly available software and commodity computing hardware. We identified gene rearrangements and the state of invertible promoters in the strain.\nConclusions\nThe single chromosome assembly of Bacteroides fragilis strain BE1 was achieved using only modest amounts of data, publicly available software and commodity computing hardware. This combination of technologies offers the possibility of ultra-cheap, high quality, finished bacterial genomes.', u'Species interactions, ranging from antagonisms to mutualisms, form the architecture of biodiversity and determine ecosystem functioning. Understanding the rules responsible for who interacts with whom, as well as the functional consequences of these interspecific interactions, is central to predicting community dynamics and stability. Species traits sensu lato may affect different ecological processes determining species interactions through a two-step process. First, ecological and life-history traits govern species distributions and abundance, and hence determine species co-occurrence, which is a prerequisite for them to interact. Second, morphological traits between co-occurring potential interaction partners should match for the realization of an interaction. Moreover, inferring functioning from a network of interactions may require the incorporation of interaction efficiency. This efficiency may be also trait-mediated, and can depend on the extent of matching, or on morphological, physiological or behavioural traits. It has been shown that both neutral and trait-based models can predict the general structure of networks, but they rarely accurately predict individual interactions, suggesting that these models may be predicting the right structure for the wrong reason. We propose to move away from testing null models with a framework that explicitly models the probability of interaction among individuals given their traits. The proposed models integrate both neutral and trait-matching constraints while using only information about known interactions, thereby overcoming problems originating from under-sampling of rare interactions (i.e. missing links). They can easily accommodate qualitative or quantitative data, and can incorporate trait variation within species, such as values that vary along developmental stages or environmental gradients. We use three case studies to show that they can detect strong trait matching (e.g. predator-prey system), relaxed trait matching (e.g. herbivore-plant system) and barrier trait matching (e.g. plant-pollinator systems). Only by elucidating which species traits are important in each process, i.e. in determining interaction establishment, frequency, and efficiency, can we advance in explaining how species interact and the consequences for ecosystem functioning.', u'Translation initiation is a critical early step in the replication cycle of the positive-sense, single-stranded RNA genome of noroviruses, a major cause of gastroenteritis in humans. Norovirus RNA, which has neither a 5 \u0301 m7G cap nor an internal ribosome entry site (IRES), adopts an unusual mechanism to initiate protein synthesis that relies on interactions between the VPg protein covalently attached to the 5 \u0301-end of the viral RNA and eukaryotic initiation factors (eIFs) in the host cell.\nFor murine norovirus (MNV) we previously showed that VPg binds to the middle fragment of eIF4G (4GM; residues 652-1132). Here we have used pull-down assays, fluorescence anisotropy, and isothermal titration calorimetry (ITC) to demonstrate that a stretch of ~20 amino acids at the C terminus of MNV VPg mediates direct and specific binding to the HEAT-1 domain within the 4GM fragment of eIF4G. Our analysis further reveals that the MNV C-terminus binds to eIF4G HEAT-1 via a motif that is conserved in all known noroviruses. Fine mutagenic mapping suggests that the MNV VPg C terminus may interact with eIF4G in a helical conformation. NMR spectroscopy was used to define the VPg binding site on eIF4G HEAT-1, which was confirmed by mutagenesis and binding assays. We have found that this site is non-overlapping with the binding site for eIF4A on eIF4G HEAT-1 by demonstrating that norovirus VPg can form ternary VPg-eIF4G-eIF4A complexes. The functional significance of the VPg-eIF4G interaction was shown by the ability of fusion proteins containing the C- terminal peptide of MNV VPg to inhibit translation of norovirus RNA but not cap- or IRES-dependent translation. These observations define important structural details of a functional interaction between norovirus VPg and eIF4G and reveal a binding interface that might be exploited as a target for antiviral therapy.', u'Recent discoveries of endogenous human stem cell-associated retroviruses (SCARs) revealed consistent activation of specific endogenous retroviral elements in human preimplantation embryos and documented the essential role of the sustained retroviral activities in the maintenance of pluripotency, functional identity and integrity of na\xefve-state embryonic stem cells, and anti-viral resistance of the early-stage human embryos. SCARs activity have been implicated in seeding thousands\u2019 human-specific regulatory sequences in the hESC genome. Activation of specific SCARs, namely LTR7/HERVH and LTR5_Hs/HERVK, has been demonstrated in patients diagnosed with multiple types of cancer, autoimmune diseases, neurodegenerative disorders and it is likely associated with the emergence of clinically lethal therapy resistant death-from-cancer phenotypes in a sub-set of cancer patients diagnosed with different types of malignant tumors.', u'Many genetic variants influence complex traits by modulating gene expression, thus altering the abundance levels of one or multiple proteins. In this work we introduce a powerful strategy that integrates gene expression measurements with large-scale genome-wide association data to identify genes whose cis-regulated expression is associated to complex traits. We use a relatively small reference panel of individuals for which both genetic variation and gene expression have been measured to impute gene expression into large cohorts of individuals and identify expression-trait associations. We extend our methods to allow for indirect imputation of the expression-trait association from summary association statistics of large-scale GWAS1-3. We applied our approaches to expression data from blood and adipose tissue measured in ~3,000 individuals overall. We then imputed gene expression into GWAS data from over 900,000 phenotype measurements4-6 to identify 69 novel genes significantly associated to obesity-related traits (BMI, lipids, and height). Many of the novel genes were associated with relevant phenotypes in the Hybrid Mouse Diversity Panel. Overall our results showcase the power of integrating genotype, gene expression and phenotype to gain insights into the genetic basis of complex traits.', u'Summary: We describe Manta, a method to discover structural variants and indels from next generation sequencing data. Manta is optimized for rapid clinical analysis, calling structural variants, medium-sized indels and large insertions on standard compute hardware in less than a tenth of the time that comparable methods require to identify only subsets of these variant types: for example NA12878 at 50x genomic coverage is analyzed in less than 20 minutes. Manta can discover and score variants based on supporting paired and split-read evidence, with scoring models optimized for germline analysis of diploid individuals and somatic analysis of tumor-normal sample pairs. Call quality is similar to or better than comparable methods, as determined by pedigree consistency of germline calls and comparison of somatic calls to COSMIC database variants. Manta consistently assembles a higher fraction of its calls to basepair resolution, allowing for improved downstream annotation and analysis of clinical significance. We provide Manta as a community resource to facilitate practical and routine structural variant analysis in clinical and research sequencing scenarios.\nAvailability: Manta source code and Linux binaries are available from http://github.com/Illumina/manta.\nContact: csaunders@illumina.com', u'The lack of a comprehensive map of transcription start sites (TSS) across the highly AT-rich genome of P. falciparum has hindered progress towards deciphering the molecular mechanisms that underly the timely regulation of gene expression in this malaria parasite. Using high-throughput sequencing technologies, we generated a comprehensive atlas of transcription initiation events at single nucleotide-resolution during the parasite intra-erythrocytic developmental cycle. This detailed analysis of TSS usage enabled us to define architectural features of plasmodial promoters. We demonstrate that TSS selection and strength are constrained by local nucleotide composition. Furthermore, we provide evidence for coordinate and stage-specific TSS usage from distinct sites within the same transcriptional unit, thereby producing transcript isoforms, a subset of which are developmentally regulated. This work offers a framework for further investigations into the interactions between genomic sequences and regulatory factors governing the complex transcriptional program of this major human pathogen.', u'Ecosystems provide multiple ecosystem services to society. Ignoring the multi-functionality of land systems in natural resource management generates potentially trade-offs with respect to the provisioning of ecosystem services. Understanding relationships between ecosystem services can therefore help to minimize undesired trade-offs and enhance synergies. The research on relationships between ecosystem services has recently gained increasing attention\nin the scientific community. However, a synthesis on existing knowledge and knowledge gaps is missing so far. We analyzed 67 case studies that studied 476 pairwise combinations of ecosystem services. The relationships between\nthese pairs of ecosystem services were classified into three categories: "tradeo\nff", "synergy" or "no-effect". Most pairs of ecosystem services (74%) had a clear association with one category: the majority of case studies reported similar relationships for pairs of ecosystem services. A synergistic relationship\nwas dominant between different regulating services and between different cultural services, whereas the relationship between regulating and provisioning services was trade-off dominated. Increases in cultural services did not influence provisioning services ("no-effect"). We further analyzed the pattern\nof relationships between ecosystem services across scales, land system archetypes and methods used to determine the relationship. Our analysis showed that the overall pattern of relationships between ecosystem services\ndid not change significantly with scale and land system archetypes. However, some pairs of ecosystem services showed changes in relationships with scale. The choice of methods used to determine the relationship had an effect on the direction of the relationship: studies that employed correlation coefficients\nshowed an increased probability to identify no-effect relationships, whereas descriptive methods had a higher probability of identifying trade-offs. The regional scale was the most commonly considered, and case studies were biased\namong different land system archetypes which might affect our ability to find the effect of scale or land system archetypes on the pattern of relationships. Our results provide helpful information of which services to include in ecosystem services assessments for the scientific community as well as for practitioners. Furthermore, they allow a first check if critical trade-offs have\nbeen considered in an analysis.', u'Endogenous retroviruses (ERVs) arise from retroviruses chromosomally integrated in the host germline. ERVs are common in vertebrate genomes and provide a valuable fossil record of past retroviral infections to investigate the biology and evolution of retroviruses over a deep time scale, including cross-species transmission events. Here we took advantage of a catalog of ERVs we recently produced for the bat Myotis lucifugus to seek evidence for infiltration of these retroviruses in other mammalian species (>100) currently represented in the genome sequence database. We provide multiple lines of evidence for the cross-ordinal transmission of a gammaretrovirus endogenized independently in the lineages of vespertilionid bats, felid cats and pangolin ~13-25 million years ago. Following its initial introduction, the ERV amplified extensively in parallel in both bat and cat lineages, generating hundreds of species-specific insertions throughout evolution. However, despite being derived from the same viral species, phylogenetic and selection analyses suggest that the ERV experienced different amplification dynamics in the two mammalian lineages. In the cat lineage, the ERV appears to have expanded primarily by retrotransposition of a single proviral progenitor that lost infectious capacity shortly after endogenization. In the bat lineage, the ERV followed a more complex path of germline invasion characterized by both retrotransposition and multiple infection events. The results also suggest that some of the bat ERVs have maintained infectious capacity for extended period of time and may be still infectious today. This study provides one of the most rigorously documented cases of cross-ordinal transmission of a mammalian retrovirus. It also illustrates how the same retrovirus species has transitioned multiple times from an infectious pathogen to a genomic parasite (i.e. retrotransposon), yet experiencing different invasion dynamics in different mammalian hosts.', u'Background: The ATP6V1B2 gene plays a critical role in the auditory system, and a mutation in this gene is one genetic cause of DDOD syndrome (Dominant deafness-onychodystrophy syndrome, MIM 124480) and ZLS (Zimmermann-Laband syndrome, MIM 135500). However, whether and how ATP6V1B2 is involved in the development of other organs remains unknown. In the present study, we explored the effect of atp6v1b2 knockdown on early zebrafish development and verified that this gene plays a role in syndromic hearing loss.\nMethods: Three morpholinos (two splice-blocking, one translation-blocking) and the atp6v1b2 c.1516 C>T plasmid were used to knockdown or overexpress atp6v1b2 in zebrafish after microinjection of fertilised embryos. Control and atp6v1b2 embryo morphants were evaluated 6 days post-fertilisation in terms of motility, apoptosis, pectoral fin development, and hair cell number.\nResults: Atp6v1b2-knockdown zebrafish exhibited decreased body length, pericardial oedema, hair cell loss, a non-inflated swim bladder, and shorter pectoral fins; the first three phenotypes were also evident in fish overexpressing the gene.\nConclusions: Atp6v1b2 plays important roles in the development of hearing, the pectoral fin, the cardiovascular system, and the swim bladder, thereby supporting a role for this gene in syndromic hearing loss.', u'We propose a coalescent model for three species that allows gene flow between both pairs of sister populations. The model is designed to analyze multilocus genomic sequence alignments, with one sequence sampled from each of the three species. The model is formulated using a Markov chain representation, which allows use of matrix exponentiation to compute analytical expressions for the probability density of gene tree genealogies. The gene tree history distribution as well as the gene tree topology distribution under this coalescent model with gene flow are then calculated via numerical integration. We analyze the model to compare the distributions of gene tree topologies and gene tree histories for species trees with differing effective population sizes and gene flow rates. Our results suggest conditions under which the species tree and associated parameters are not identifiable from the gene tree topology distribution when gene flow is present, but indicate that the gene tree history distribution may identify the species tree and associated parameters. Thus, the gene tree history distribution can be used to infer parameters such as the ancestral effective population sizes and the rates of gene flow in a maximum likelihood (ML) framework. We conduct computer simulations to evaluate the performance of our method in estimating these parameters, and we apply our method to an Afrotropical mosquito data set (Fontaine et al., 2015) to demonstrate the usefulness of our method for the analysis of empirical data. \n\nKey words: coalescent, gene flow, migration, hybridization, gene tree, topology, history, maximum likelihood, speciation.', u'We describe an adaptation of \u03c6C31 integrase-mediated targeted cassette exchange for use in Drosophila cell lines. Single copies of an attP-bounded docking platform carrying a GFP-expression marker, with and without insulator elements flanking the attP sites, were inserted by P-element transformation into the Kc167 and Sg4 cell lines; each of the resulting docking site lines carries a single mapped copy of one of the docking platforms.  Vectors for targeted substitution contain a cloning cassette flanked by attB sites.  Targeted substitution occurs by integrase-mediated substitution between the attP sites (integrated) and the attB sites (vector). We describe procedures for isolating cells carrying the substitutions and for eliminating the products of secondary off-target events.    We demonstrated the technology by integrating a cassette containing a Cu++-inducible mCherry marker, and we report the expression properties of those lines.  When compared with clonal lines made by traditional transformation methods, which lead to the illegitimate insertion of tandem arrays, targeted insertion lines give more uniform expression, lower basal expression and higher induction ratios.  Targeted substitution, though intricate, affords results that should greatly improve comparative expression assays ??? a major emphasis of cell-based studies.', u'In the early days of HIV treatment, drug resistance occurred rapidly and predictably in all patients, but under modern treatments, resistance arises slowly, if at all. The probability of resistance should be controlled by the rate of generation of resistant mutations. If many adaptive mutations arise simultaneously, then adaptation proceeds by soft selective sweeps in which multiple adaptive mutations spread concomitantly, but if adaptive mutations occur rarely in the population, then a single adaptive mutation should spread alone in a hard selective sweep. Here we use 6,717 HIV-1 consensus sequences from patients treated with first-line therapies between 1989 and 2013 to confirm that the transition from fast to slow evolution of drug resistance was indeed accompanied with the expected transition from soft to hard selective sweeps. This suggests more generally that evolution proceeds via hard sweeps if resistance is unlikely and via soft sweeps if it is likely.', u'Motivation: In order to discover quantitative trait loci (QTLs), multi-dimensional genomic data sets combining DNA-seq and ChiP-/RNA-seq require methods that rapidly correlate tens of thousands of molecular phenotypes with millions of genetic variants while appropriately controlling for multiple testing. \nResults: We have developed FastQTL, a method that implements a popular cis-QTL mapping strategy in a user- and cluster-friendly tool. FastQTL also proposes an efficient permutation procedure to control for multiple testing. The outcome of permutations is modeled using beta distributions trained from a few permutations and from which adjusted p-values can be estimated at any level of significance with little computational cost. The Geuvadis & GTEx pilot data sets can be now easily analyzed an order of magnitude faster than previous approaches.\nAvailability: Source code, binaries and comprehensive documentation of FastQTL are freely available to download at http://fastqtl.sourceforge.net/', u'The tympanic ring, malleus and incus of the mammalian middle ear (MME) derive from the ancestral primary jaw joint of land vertebrates. In Mesozoic mammals, evolutionary detachment of the MME from the lower jaw occurred when Meckel\u2019s cartilage - the last connection between MME and dentary \u2013 disappeared. This disappearance is famously recapitulated in early mammalian development. Further developmental recapitulation of Mesozoic MME detachment is thought to occur in the form of negative allometry and posterior/medial replacement of MME bones relative to the jaw joint. However, despite being widely accepted, such detailed recapitulation scenarios have never been quantified. Here we show, based on \xb5CT scans of developmental series of several marsupials and monotremes, that negative allometry of MME bones relative to the skull occurs only after MME detachment, ruling it out as a developmental detachment trigger; additionally, there is no positional change of ectotympanic or malleus relative to the dentary. Differential positioning of MME bones in the two monotreme species is also not developmentally recapitulated. Our results challenge the developmental prerequisites of widely accepted evolutionary scenarios regarding MME detachment. Rather, we observe an association of MME detachment and dental eruption, suggesting a detachment trigger relating to the onset of dentary function.', u'With the great advances in ancient DNA extraction, population genetics data are now made of geographically separated individuals from both present and ancient times. However, population genetics theory about the joint effect of space and time has not been thoroughly studied. Based on the classical stepping--stone model, we develop the theory of Isolation by Distance and Time. We derive the correlation of allele frequencies between demes in the case where ancient samples are present in the data, and investigate the impact of edge effects with forward-in-time simulations. We also derive results about coalescent times in circular/toroidal models. As one of the most common way to investigate population structure is to apply principal component analysis, we evaluate the impact of this theory on plots of principal components. Our results demonstrate that time between samples is a non-negligible factor that requires new attention in population genetics.', u'The X chromosome, with its unique mode of inheritance, contributes to differences between the sexes at a molecular level, including sex-specific gene expression and sex-specific impact of genetic variation. We have conducted an analysis of the impact of both sex and the X chromosome on patterns of gene expression identified through transcriptome sequencing of whole blood from 922 individuals. We identified that genes on the X chromosome are more likely to have sex-specific expression compared to the autosomal genes. Furthermore, we identified a depletion of regulatory variants on the X chromosome, especially among genes under high selective constraint. In contrast, we discovered an enrichment of sex-specific regulatory variants on the X chromosome. To resolve the molecular mechanisms underlying such effects, we generated and connected sex-specific chromatin accessibility to sex-specific expression and regulatory variation. As sex-specific regulatory variants can inform sex differences in genetic disease prevalence, we have integrated our data with genome-wide association study data for multiple immune traits and to identify traits with significant sex biases. Together, our study provides genome-wide insight into how the X chromosome and sex shape human gene regulation and disease.', u'Characteristics of pseudogene degeneration at the coding level are well-known, such as a shift towards neutral rates of nonsynonymous substitutions and gain of frameshift mutations. In contrast, degeneration of pseudogene transcriptional regulation is not well understood. Here, we test two predictions of regulatory degeneration along the pseudogenized lineage: (1) decreased transcription factor binding and (2) accelerated evolution in putative cis-regulatory regions.\n\nWe find evidence for decreased TF binding levels nearby two primate pseudogenes compared to functional liver genes. We also find evidence for pseudogene-lineage-specific relaxation of sequence constraint on a fragment of the promoter of the primate pseudogene urate oxidase (Uox) and a nearby cis-regulatory module (CRM). However, the majority of TF-bound sequences nearby pseudogenes do not show evidence for lineage-specific accelerated rates of evolution. We conclude that decreases in TF binding level could be a marker for regulatory degeneration, while sequence degeneration in most CRMs may be obscured by background rates of TF binding site turnover.', u'Microbial communities are commonly characterized by amplifying and sequencing target genes, but errors limit the precision of amplicon sequencing. We present DADA2, a software package that models and corrects amplicon errors. DADA2 identified more real variants than other methods in Illumina-sequenced mock communities, some differing by a single nucleotide, while outputting fewer spurious sequences. DADA2 analysis of vaginal samples revealed a diversity of Lactobacillus crispatus strains undetected by OTU methods.', u'High throughput molecular profiling and integrated data analysis with tumor tissues require overcoming challenges like tumor heterogeneity and tissue paucity. This study is an attempt to understand and optimize various steps during tissue processing and in establishing pipelines essential for integrated analysis. Towards this effort, we subjected laryngo-pharyngeal primary tumors and the corresponding adjacent normal tissues (n=2) to two RNA and protein isolation methods, one wherein RNA and protein were isolated from the same tissue sequentially (Method 1) and second, wherein the extraction was carried out using two independent methods (Method 2). RNA and protein from both methods were subjected to RNA-seq and iTRAQ based LC-MS/MS analysis. Transcript and peptide identification and quantification was followed by both individual -ome and integrated data analysis. As a result of this analysis, we identified a higher number of total, as well as differentially expressed (DE) transcripts (1329 vs 1134) and proteins (799 vs 408) with fold change \u2265 2.0, in Method 1. Among these, 173 and 86 entities were identified by both transcriptome and proteome analysis in Method 1 and 2, respectively, with higher concordance in the regulation trends observed in the former. The significant cancer related pathways enriched with the individual DE transcript or protein data were similar in both the methods. However, the entities mapping to them were different, allowing enhanced view of the pathways identified after integration of the data and subsequent mapping. The concordant DE transcripts and proteins also revealed key molecules of the pathways with important roles in cancer development. This study thus demonstrates that sequential extraction of the RNA and proteins from the same tissue allows for better profiling of differentially expressed entities and a more accurate integrated data analysis.', u"Like a moth into the flame - phototaxis is commonly thought of as the iconic example of hard-wired input-output relationships in insect brains. Perhaps therefore, the century-old discovery of flexibility in Drosophila phototaxis has received little attention. Here we report that across several different behavioural tests, light/dark preference is dependent on the flies' ability to fly. If we temporarily compromise flying ability, phototaxis reverses concomitantly. Neuronal activity in circuits expressing dopamine and octopamine, respectively, plays a differential role in this case of behavioral flexibility. We conclude that flies constantly monitor their ability to fly, and that flying ability exerts a fundamental effect on action selection in Drosophila. This work suggests that even behaviours which appear simple and hard-wired comprise a value-driven decision-making stage, negotiating external stimuli with the animal's internal state, before an action is selected.", u'In addition to coding for proteins, exons can also impact transcription by encoding regulatory elements such as enhancers. It has been debated whether such features confer heightened selective constraint, or evolve neutrally. We have addressed this question by developing a new approach to disentangle the sources of selection acting on exonic enhancers, in which we model the evolutionary rates of every possible substitution as a function of their effects on both protein sequence and enhancer activity. In three exonic enhancers, we found no significant association between evolutionary rates and effects on enhancer activity. This suggests that despite having biochemical activity, these exonic enhancers have no detectable selective constraint, and thus are unlikely to play a major role in protein evolution.', u'Plants sense foliar shade of competitors and alter their developmental programs through the shade avoidance response. Internode and petiole elongation, and changes in overall leaf area and leaf mass per area, are the stereotypical architectural responses to foliar shade in the shoot. However, changes in leaf shape and complexity in response to shade remain incompletely, and qualitatively, described. Using a meta-analysis of >18,000 previously published leaflet outlines, we demonstrate that shade avoidance alters leaf shape in domesticated tomato and wild relatives. The effects of shade avoidance on leaf shape are subtle with respect to individual traits, but are combinatorially strong. We then seek to describe the developmental origins of shade-induced changes in leaf shape by swapping plants between light treatments. Leaf size is light-responsive late into development, but patterning events, such as stomatal index, are irrevocably specified earlier. Observing that shade induces increases in shoot apical meristem size, we then describe gene expression changes in early leaf primordia and the meristem using laser microdissection. We find that in leaf primordia shade avoidance is not mediated through canonical pathways described in mature organs, but rather the expression of KNOX and other indeterminacy genes, altering known developmental pathways responsible for patterning leaf shape. We also demonstrate that shade-induced changes in leaf primordium gene expression largely do not overlap with those found in successively initiated leaf primordia, providing evidence against classic hypotheses that shaded leaf morphology results from prolonged production of juvenile leaf types.', u"Protein secondary and tertiary structure is modeled as a linear passive analog lumped electrical circuit. Modeling is based on the structural similarity between helix, sheet, turn/loop, and helix pair in proteins and inductor, capacitor, resistor, and transformer in electrical circuits; it includes methods from circuit analysis and synthesis. A 'protein circuit' is a one-port with a restrictive circuit topology (for example, the circuit for a secondary structure cannot be a Foster II ladder or a Wheatstone-like bridge). It has a rational positive real impedance function whose pole-zero distribution serves as a compact descriptor of secondary and tertiary structure, which is reminiscent of the Ramachandran plot. Standard circuit analysis methods such as node/loop equations and pole-zero maps may be used to study differences at the secondary and tertiary levels within and across proteins. Pairs of interacting proteins can be modeled as two-ports and studied via transfer\nfunctions. Similarly circuit synthesis methods can be used to construct 'protein circuits' whose real counterparts may or may not exist. An analysis example shows how a 'protein circuit' is constructed for thioredoxin and its pole-zero map obtained. A synthesis example shows how an electrical circuit with a single Brune section is obtained from a specified set of poles and zeros and then mapped to an artificial protein with a helix pair (corresponding to the transformer in the Brune section). Possible applications to folding, drug design, and visualization are indicated.", u'Science outreach has become increasingly important for researchers and needs to be of ever improving quality, although the time available aside our science, teaching and administration activities is steadily decreasing. To square this circle, effective strategies are required. Here we argue that this can be achieved by setting simple but ambitious overarching objectives for comprehensive outreach initiatives which target multiple audiences, supported by cumulative build-up of shared high-quality resources, as well as the exchange and collaboration amongst scientists with a common outreach aim. To exemplify this strategy, we explain the low-budget, yet high-quality outreach initiative of the Manchester Fly Facility which aims to promote public awareness of the importance of the model organism Drosophila for biomedical research. (1) This initiative targets the general public at science fairs, through public videos, or through extracurricular activities in schools as well as the development of curriculum-relevant sample lessons for teachers - all supported by a dedicated website. (2) The initiative targets university students: by adapting the public outreach resources for their teaching, and through newly developed advanced training strategies that amalgamate the outreach objectives. (3) It targets fellow scientists through blogs, conference presentations and a second website that provides a one-stop-shop for resources, arguments and strategies. As will be explained, this multi-pronged approach is time-saving in the long run and it is powerful because it reaches a wide range of audiences, helps to gain momentum, to build resource, and to gradually improve quality through cross-fertilisation between different activities, and through exchange within the science community. This helps to build communities, and high-quality outreach will have further important added value: arguments that impress the public, tend to be most effective also with reviewers and grant panel members, and often help to readjust aspects of your own scientific work.', u'Species may evolve on a reticulate network due to hybridization or other gene flow rather than on a strictly bifurcating tree, but comparative methods to deal with trait evolution on a network are lacking. We create such a method, which uses a Brownian motion model. Our method seeks to separately or jointly detect a bias in trait value coming from hybridization (\u03b2) and a burst of variation at the time of hybridization (v_H) associated with the hybridization event, as well as traditional Brownian motion parameters of ancestral state (\u03bc) and rate of evolution (\u03c3^2) of Brownian motion, as well as measurement error of the tips (SE). We test the method with extensive simulations. We also apply the model to two empirical examples, cichlid body size and Nicotiana drought tolerance, and find substantial measurement error and a hint that hybrids have greater drought tolerance in the latter case. The new methods are available in CRAN R package BMhyd.', u'A novel crossmodal matching paradigm including vision, audition, and\nsomatosensation was developed in order to investigate the interaction between attention and crossmodal congruence in multisensory integration. To that end, all three modalities were stimulated concurrently while a bimodal focus was defined blockwise. Congruence between stimulus intensity changes in the attended modalities had to be evaluated. We found that crossmodal congruence improved performance if both, the attended modalities and the task irrelevant distractor were congruent. If the attended modalities were incongruent, the distractor impaired performance due to its congruence relation to one of the attended\nmodalities. Between attentional conditions, magnitudes of crossmodal enhancement or impairment differed. Largest crossmodal effects were seen in visual?tactile matching, intermediate effects for audio?visual and smallest effects for audio?tactile matching. We conclude that differences in crossmodal matching likely reflect characteristics of multisensory neural network architecture. We discuss our results with respect to the timing of perceptual processing and state hypotheses for future physiological studies. Finally, etiological questions are addressed.', u'Aberrant DNA methylation has long been implicated in cancers. In this work we present a highly discriminative DNA methylation biomarker for non-small cell lung cancers and fourteen other cancers. Based on 69 NSCLC cell lines and 257 cancer-free lung tissues we identified a CpG island in SCT gene promoter which was verified by qMSP experiment in 15 NSCLC cell lines and 3 immortalized human respiratory epithelium cells. In addition, we found that SCT promoter was methylated in 23 cancer cell lines involving >10 cancer types profiled by ENCODE. We found that SCT promoter is hyper-methylated in primary tumors from TCGA lung cancer cohort. Additionally, we found that SCT promoter is methylated at high frequencies in fifteen malignancies and is not methylated in ~1000 non-cancerous tissues across >30 organ types. Our study indicates that SCT promoter methylation is a highly discriminative biomarker for lung and many other cancers.', u'Insert size distributions from paired read protocols are used for inference in bioinformatic applications such as genome assembly and structural variation detection. However, many of the models that are being used are subject to bias. This bias arises when we assume that all insert sizes within a distribution are equally likely to be observed, when in fact, size matters. These systematic errors exist in popular software even when the assumptions made about data are true. We have previously shown that bias occurs for scaffolders in genome assembly. Here, we generalize the theory and demonstrate that it is applicable in other contexts. We provide examples of bias in state-of the-art software and improve them using our model. One key application of our theory is structural variation detection using read pairs. We show that an incorrect null-hypothesis is commonly used in popular tools and can be corrected using our theory. Furthermore, we approximate the smallest size of indels that are possible to discover given an insert size distribution. Two other applications are inference of insert size distribution on \\emph{de novo} genome assemblies and error correction of genome assemblies using mated reads. Our theory is implemented in a tool called GetDistr (\\url{https://github.com/ksahlin/GetDistr}).', u'Genetic data often exhibit patterns that are broadly consistent with "isolation by distance" - a phenomenon where genetic similarity tends to decay with geographic distance. In a heterogeneous habitat, decay may occur more quickly in some regions than others: for example, barriers to gene flow can accelerate the genetic differentiation between groups located close in space. We use the concept of "effective migration" to model the relationship between genetics and geography: in this paradigm, effective migration is low in regions where genetic similarity decays quickly. We present a method to quantify and visualize variation in effective migration across the habitat, which can be used to identify potential barriers to gene flow, from geographically indexed large-scale genetic data. Our approach uses a population genetic model to relate underlying migration rates to expected pairwise genetic dissimilarities, and estimates migration rates by matching these expectations to the observed dissimilarities. We illustrate the potential and limitations of our method using simulations and data from elephant, human, and Arabidopsis thaliana populations.  The resulting visualizations highlight important features of the spatial population structure that are difficult to discern using existing methods for summarizing genetic variation such as principal components analysis.', u'By transiently expressing viral suppressors of RNA silencing (VSRs) in combination with GFP silencing-inducing constructs in leaves of Nicotiana benthamiana line 16c, Hamilton et al. (2002) could establish a positive correlation between the production of 24nt GFP small interfering (si)RNAs in infiltrated leaves and the systemic onset of GFP silencing in remote tissues. In the context of GFP silencing inducers based on replicating Potato virus X (PVX), the P25 protein of PVX was found to specifically inhibit the local accumulation of 24nt GFP siRNAs. In the original paper, there were background pixel pattern duplications in the figure reporting the P25 experiments. We have now repeated these experiments with the original clones and the results presented here confirm those reported in the original paper.', u'The evidence for universal common ancestry (UCA) is vast and persuasive, and a phylogenetic test was proposed for quantifying its odds against independently originated sequences based on the comparison between one and several trees. This test was successfully applied to a well-supported homologous sequence alignment, being however criticized once simulations showed that even alignments without any phylogenetic structure could mislead its conclusions. Despite claims to the contrary, we believe that the counterexample successfully showed a drawback of the test, of relying on good alignments. \n\nHere we present a simplified version of this counterexample, which can be interpreted as a tree with arbitrarily long branches, and where the test again fails. We also present another simulation showing circumstances whereby any sufficiently similar alignment will favor UCA irrespective of the true independent origins for the sequences. We therefore conclude that the test should not be trusted unless convergence has already been ruled out a priori. Finally, we present a class of frequentist tests that perform better than the purportedly formal UCA test.', u'Social insects are emerging models for epigenetics. Here we examine a link between monoallelic methylation and monoallelic expression in the bumblebee Bombus terrestris using whole methylome and transcriptome analysis. In mammals and flowering plants, genomic imprinting (parent of origin allele specific expression) often involves monoallelic expression and methylation.  We found nineteen genes displaying monoallelic methylation and expression. They were enriched for functions to do with social organisation in the social insects. Evolutionary theory predicts that social organisation in the hymenoptera invovles genomic imprinting.', u'Werner syndrome (WS) is a prototypic heritable adult human progeroid syndrome in which signs of premature aging are associated with genetic instability and an elevated risk of specific types of cancer. We have quantified mRNA and microRNA (miRNA) expression in WS patient fibroblasts, and in WRN-depleted fibroblasts. Genes down-regulated in WS patient fibroblasts were highly enriched in G-quadruplex (G4) DNA motifs. The strength, location and strand specificity of this association provide strong experimental evidence that G4 motifs or motif-dependent G-quadruplexes are bound by WRN in human cells to modulate gene expression. The expression of many miRNAs was perturbed by loss of WRN function. WRN depletion altered the expression of >500 miRNAs. miRNAs linked to cell signaling, genome stability assurance and tumorigenesis were among the small number of these miRNAs that were persistently altered in WS patient fibroblasts. An unexpected and highly distinct finding in WS cells was the coordinate over-expression of nearly all cytoplasmic tRNA synthetases and their associated AIMP proteins. Our results provide new insight into WS pathogenesis, and identify therapeutically accessible mechanisms that may drive disease pathogenesis in WS and in the general population.', u'Background\nInsertions and deletions (indels) account for more nucleotide differences between two related DNA sequences than substitutions do, and thus it is imperative to develop a stochastic evolutionary model that enables us to reliably calculate the probability of the sequence evolution through indel processes. In a separate paper (Ezawa, Graur and Landan 2015a), we established the theoretical basis of our ab initio perturbative formulation of a continuous-time Markov model of the evolution of an entire sequence via insertions and deletions along time axis. In other separate papers (Ezawa, Graur and Landan 2015b,c), we also developed various analytical and computational methods to concretely calculate alignment probabilities via our formulation. In terms of frequencies, however, substitutions are usually more common than indels. Moreover, many experiments suggest that other mutations, such as genomic rearrangements and recombination, also play some important roles in sequence evolution.\nResults\nHere, we extend our ab initio perturbative formulation of a genuine evolutionary model so that it can incorporate other mutations. We give a sufficient set of conditions that the probability of evolution via both indels and substitutions is factorable into the product of an overall factor and local contributions. We also show that, under a set of conditions, the probability can be factorized into two sub-probabilities, one via indels alone and the other via substitutions alone. Moreover, we show that our formulation can be extended so that it can also incorporate genomic rearrangements, such as inversions and duplications. We also discuss how to accommodate some other types of mutations within our formulation.\nConclusions\nOur ab initio perturbative formulation thus extended could in principle describe the stochastic evolution of an entire sequence along time axis via major types of mutations.\n\n[This paper and three other papers (Ezawa, Graur and Landan 2015a,b,c) describe a series of our efforts to develop, apply, and extend the ab initio perturbative formulation of a general continuous-time Markov model of indels.]', u'Background\nInsertions and deletions (indels) account for more nucleotide differences between two related DNA sequences than substitutions do, and thus it is imperative to develop a stochastic evolutionary model that enables us to reliably calculate the probability of the sequence evolution through indel processes. In a separate paper (Ezawa, Graur and Landan 2015a), we established a theoretical basis of our ab initio perturbative formulation of a genuine evolutionary model, more specifically, a continuous-time Markov model of the evolution of an entire sequence via insertions and deletions. And we showed that, under some conditions, the ab initio probability of an alignment can be factorized into the product of an overall factor and contributions from regions (or local alignments) separated by gapless columns. \nResults\nThis paper describes how our ab initio perturbative formulation can be concretely used to approximately calculate the probabilities of all types of local pairwise alignments (PWAs) and some typical types of local multiple sequence alignments (MSAs). For each local alignment type, we calculated the fewest-indel contribution and the next-fewest-indel contribution to its probability, and we compared them under various conditions. We also derived a system of integral equations that can be numerically solved to give ?exact solutions? for some common types of local PWAs.  And we compared the obtained ?exact solutions? with the fewest-indel contributions. The results indicated that even the fewest-indel terms alone can quite accurately approximate the probabilities of local alignments, as long as the segments and the branches in the tree are of modest lengths. Moreover, in the light of our formulation, we examined parameter regions where other indel models can safely approximate the correct evolutionary probabilities. The analyses also suggested some modifications necessary for these models to improve the accuracy of their probability estimations.\nConclusions\nAt least under modest conditions, our ab initio perturbative formulation can quite accurately calculate alignment probabilities under biologically realistic indel models. It also provides a sound reference point that other indel models can be compared to.\n\n[This paper and three other papers (Ezawa, Graur and Landan 2015a,b,c) describe a series of our efforts to develop, apply, and extend the ab initio perturbative formulation of a general continuous-time Markov model of indels.]', u'Background\nInsertions and deletions (indels) account for more nucleotide differences between two related DNA sequences than substitutions do, and thus it is imperative to develop a stochastic evolutionary model that enables us to reliably calculate the probability of the sequence evolution through indel processes. In a separate paper (Ezawa, Graur and Landan 2015a), we established an ab initio perturbative formulation of a continuous-time Markov model of the evolution of an entire sequence via insertions and deletions. And we showed that, under a certain set of conditions, the ab initio probability of an alignment can be factorized into the product of an overall factor and contributions from regions (or local alignments) separated by gapless columns.  Moreover, in another separate paper (Ezawa, Graur and Landan 2015b), we performed concrete perturbation analyses on all types of local pairwise alignments (PWAs) and some typical types of local multiple sequence alignments (MSAs). The analyses indicated that even the fewest-indel terms alone can quite accurately approximate the probabilities of local alignments, as long as the segments and the branches in the tree are of modest lengths. \n\nResults\nTo examine whether or not the fewest-indel terms alone can well approximate the alignment probabilities of more general types of local MSAs as well, and as a first step toward the automatic application of our ab initio perturbative formulation, we developed an algorithm that calculates the first approximation of the probability of a given MSA under a given parameter setting including a phylogenetic tree. The algorithm first chops the MSA into gapped and gapless segments, second enumerates all parsimonious indel histories potentially responsible for each gapped segment, and finally calculates their contributions to the MSA probability. We performed validation analyses using more than ten million local MSAs. The results indicated that even the first approximation can quite accurately estimate the probability of each local MSA, as long as the gaps and tree branches are at most moderately long.\nConclusions\nThe newly developed algorithm, called LOLIPOG, brought our ab initio perturbation formulation at least one step closer to a practically useful method to quite accurately calculate the probability of a MSA under a given biologically realistic parameter setting.\n\n[This paper and three other papers (Ezawa, Graur and Landan 2015a,b,c) describe a series of our efforts to develop, apply, and extend the ab initio perturbative formulation of a general continuous-time Markov model of indels.]', u'Root systems develop different root types that individually sense cues from their local environment and integrate this information with systemic signals. This complex multi-dimensional amalgam of inputs enables continuous adjustment of root growth rates, direction and metabolic activity that define a dynamic physical network. Current methods for analyzing root biology balance physiological relevance with imaging capability. To bridge this divide, we developed an integrated imaging system called Growth and Luminescence Observatory for Roots (GLO-Roots) that uses luminescence-based reporters to enable studies of root architecture and gene expression patterns in soil-grown, light-shielded roots. We have developed image analysis algorithms that allow the spatial integration of soil properties such as soil moisture with root traits. We propose GLO-Roots as a system that has great utility in presenting environmental stimuli to roots in ways that evoke natural adaptive responses and in providing tools for studying the multi-dimensional nature of such processes.', u'To the Editor ? Fern?ndez-Mart?nez et al. 1 show a chief determinant of nutrient availability on net ecosystem production (NEP) and ecosystem carbon-use efficiency (CUEe, the ratio of NEP to gross primary production i.e. GPP) in global forests. However, their conclusions depend on an improper treatment of differences in the GPP range of nutrient-rich and nutrient-poor forests (uneven sampling effect) and outliers. A statistical re-analysis of their datasets, while simultaneously excluding the uneven sampling effect and outliers, indicates no significant control of nutrient availability on carbon (C) balance.', u'Detection of genomic variants is commonly conducted by aligning a set of reads sequenced from an individual to the reference genome of the species and analyzing the resulting read pileup. Typically, this process finds a subset of variants already reported in  databases and additional novel variants characteristic to the sequenced individual. Most of the effort in the literature has been put to the alignment problem on a single reference sequence, although our gathered knowledge on species such as human is pan-genomic: We know most of the common variation in addition to the reference sequence. There have been some efforts to exploit pan-genome indexing, where the most widely adopted approach is to build an index structure on a set of reference sequences containing observed variation combinations.\n\nThe enhancement in alignment accuracy when using pan-genome indexing has been demonstrated in experiments, but so far the above multiple references pan-genome indexing approach has not been tested on its final goal, that is, in enhancing variation detection. This is the focus of this article: We study a generic approach to add variation detection support on top of the multiple references pan-genomic indexing approach. Namely, we study the read pileup on a multiple alignment of reference genomes, and propose a heaviest path algorithm to extract a new recombined reference sequence. This recombined reference sequence can then be utilized in any standard read alignment and variation detection workflow. We demonstrate that the approach enhances variation detection on realistic data sets.', u'To evaluate and compare the performance of variant calling methods and their confidence scores, comparisons between a test call set and a ?gold standard? need to be carried out. Unfortunately, these comparisons are not straightforward with the current Variant Call Files (VCF), which are the standard output of most variant calling algorithms for high-throughput sequencing data. Comparisons of VCFs are often confounded by the different representations of indels, MNPs, and combinations thereof with SNVs in complex regions of the genome, resulting in misleading results. A variant caller is inherently a classification method designed to score putative variants with confidence scores that could permit controlling the rate of false positives (FP) or false negatives (FN) for a given application. Receiver operator curves (ROC) and the area under the ROC (AUC) are efficient metrics to evaluate a test call set versus a gold standard. However, in the case of VCF data this also requires a special accounting to deal with discrepant representations. We developed a novel algorithm for comparing variant call sets that deals with complex call representation discrepancies and through a dynamic programing method that minimizes false positives and negatives globally across the entire call sets for accurate performance evaluation of VCFs.', u'A long-standing question in evolutionary biology is whether the evolution of convergent phenotypes results from selection on the same heritable genetic components. Using whole genome sequencing and genome scans, we tested whether the evolution of parallel longitudinal flowering time clines in the native and introduced ranges of Arabidopsis thaliana has a similar genetic basis. We found that common variants of large effect on flowering time in the native range do not appear to have been under recent strong selection in the introduced range. Genes in regions of the genome that are under selection for flowering time are also not enriched for functions related to development or environmental sensing. We instead identified a set of 53 new candidate genes putatively linked to the evolution of flowering time in the species introduced range. A high degree of conditional neutrality of flowering time variants between the native and introduced range may preclude parallel evolution at the level of genes. Overall, neither gene pleiotropy nor available standing genetic variation appears to have restricted the evolution of flowering time in the introduced range to high frequency variants from the native range or to known flowering time pathway genes.', u'Transposons are mobile genetic elements that are found in nearly all organisms, including humans. Mobilization of DNA transposons by transposase enzymes can cause genomic rearrangements, but our knowledge of human genes derived from transposases is limited. Here, we find that the protein encoded by human PGBD5, the most evolutionarily conserved transposable element-derived gene in chordates, can induce stereotypical cut-and-paste DNA transposition in human cells. Genomic integration activity of PGBD5 requires distinct aspartic acid residues in its transposase domain, and specific DNA sequences with inverted terminal repeats with similarity to piggyBac transposons. DNA transposition catalyzed by PGBD5 in human cells occurs genome-wide, with precise transposon excision and preference for insertion at TTAA sites. The apparent conservation of DNA transposition activity by PGBD5 raises the possibility that genomic remodeling may contribute to its biological function.', u'The   history   of   particular   genes   and   that   of   the   species   that   carry   them   can   be   different   due   to   different reasons.   In   particular,   gene   trees   and   species   trees   can   truly   differ   due   to   well-known   evolutionary  processes   like   gene   duplication   and   loss,   lateral   gene   transfer   or   incomplete   lineage   sorting.   Different  species   tree   reconstruction   methods   have   been   developed   to   take   this   incongruence   into   account,   which  can   be   divided   grossly   into   supertree   and   supermatrix   approaches.   Here,   we   introduce   a   new   Bayesian  hierarchical   model   that   we   have   recently   developed   and implemented   in   the   program   Guenomu,   that  considers   multiple   sources   of   gene   tree/species   tree   disagreement.   Guenomu   takes   as   input   the   posterior  distributions   of   unrooted   gene   tree topologies   for   multiple   gene   families,   in   order   to   estimate   the   posterior  distribution of rooted species tree topologies.', u'A fundamental challenge in calcium imaging has been to infer spike rates of neurons from the measured noisy calcium fluorescence traces. We systematically evaluate a range of spike inference algorithms on a large benchmark dataset (>100.000 spikes) recorded from varying neural tissue (V1 and retina) using different calcium indicators (OGB-1 and GCaMP6). We introduce a new algorithm based on supervised learning in flexible probabilistic models and show that it outperforms all previously published techniques. Importantly, it even performs better than other algorithms when applied to entirely new datasets for which no simultaneously recorded data is available. Future data acquired in new experimental conditions can easily be used to further improve its spike prediction accuracy and generalization performance. Finally, we show that comparing algorithms on artificial data is not informative about performance on real data, suggesting that benchmark datasets such as the one we provide may greatly facilitate future algorithmic developments', u'Isothermal titration calorimetry (ITC) can yield precise (\xb13%) estimates of the thermodynamic parameters describing biomolecular association (affinity, enthalpy, and entropy), making it an indispensable tool for biochemistry and drug discovery. Surprisingly, interlaboratory comparisons suggest that errors of \u223c20% are common and widely underreported. Here, we show how to reduce precision- and accuracy-limiting errors while obtaining good estimates and minimizing material and time consumed by an experiment. We provide a simple spreadsheet that allows practitioners to identify precision-limiting operations during protocol design, track precision during the experiment, and propagate error to yield realistic final uncertainties.', u'Gynodioecy, the coexistence of females and hermaphrodites, occurs in 20% of angiosperm families and often enables transitions between hermaphroditism and dioecy. Clarifying mechanisms of sex determination in gynodioecious species can thus illuminate sexual system evolution. Genetic determination of gynodioecy, however, can be complex and is not fully characterized in any wild species. We used targeted sequence capture to genetically map a novel nuclear contributor to male sterility in a self-pollinated hermaphrodite of Fragaria vesca subsp. bracteata from the southern portion of its range. To understand its interaction with another identified locus and possibly additional loci, we performed crosses within and between two populations separated by 2000 km, phenotyped the progeny and sequenced candidate markers at both sex-determining loci. The newly mapped locus contains a high density of pentatricopeptide repeat genes, a class commonly involved in restoration of fertility caused by cytoplasmic male sterility. Examination of all crosses revealed three unlinked epistatically interacting loci that determine sexual phenotype and vary in frequency between populations. Fragaria vesca subsp. bracteata represents the first wild gynodioecious species with genomic evidence of both cytoplasmic and nuclear genes in sex determination. We propose a model for the interactions between these loci and new hypotheses for the evolution of sex determining chromosomes in the subdioecious and dioecious Fragaria.', u'Brain-machine interfaces rely on extracting motor control signals from brain activity in real time to actuate external devices such as robotic limbs. Whereas biomimetic approaches to neural decoding use motor imagery/observation signals, non-biomimetic approaches assign an arbitrary transformation that maps neural activity to motor control signals. In this work, we present a unified framework for the design of both biomimetic and non-biomimetic decoders based on kernel-based system identification. This framework seamlessly incorporates the neural population dynamics in the decoder design, is particularly robust even with short training data records, and results in decoders with small filter delays. The theory and results presented here provide a new formulation of optimal linear decoding, a formal method for designing non-biomimetic decoders, and a set of proposed metrics for assessing decoding performance from an online control perspective. The theoretical framework is also applicable to the design of closed-loop neural control schemes.', u'Life history invariants play a pivotal role in the study of social adaptation: they provide theoretical hypotheses that can be empirically tested, and benchmark frameworks against which new theoretical developments can be understood. Here we derive a novel invariant for dispersal evolution: the \u201cconstant philopater hypothesis\u201d (CPH). Specifically, we find that, irrespective of variation in maternal fecundity, all mothers are favoured to produce exactly the same number of philopatric offspring, with high-fecundity mothers investing proportionally more, and low-fecundity mothers investing proportionally less, into dispersing offspring. This result holds for female and male dispersal, under haploid, diploid and haplodiploid modes of inheritance, irrespective of the sex ratio, local resource availability, and whether mother or offspring controls the latter\u2019s dispersal propensity. We explore the implications of this result for evolutionary conflicts of interest \u2013 and the exchange and withholding of contextual information \u2013 both within and between families, and we show that the CPH is the fundamental invariant that underpins and explains a wider family of invariance relationships that emerge from the study of social evolution.', u'Examples of phenotypic convergence in plumage coloration have been reported in a wide diversity of avian taxonomic groups, yet the underlying evolutionary mechanisms driving this phenomenon have received little scientific inquiry. Herein, we document a striking new case of plumage convergence in the Helmeted Woodpecker (Dryocopus galeatus) and explore the possibility of visual mimicry among Atlantic Forest woodpeckers. Our multi-locus phylogenetic analyses unequivocally place D. galeatus within Celeus, indicating the former has subsequently converged in appearance upon the distantly related and syntopic Dryocopus lineatus, to which it bears a remarkable resemblance in plumage coloration and pattern. Although details of the Helmeted Woodpecker\u2019s ecology and natural history are only now beginning to emerge, its smaller size and submissive behavior are consistent with predictions derived from evolutionary game theory models and the interspecific social dominance mimicry hypothesis (ISDM). Moreover, estimates of avian visual acuity suggest that size-related mimetic deception is plausible at distances ecologically relevant to Celeus and Dryocopus foraging behavior. In light of our results, we recommend taxonomic transfer of D. galeatus to Celeus and emphasize the need for detailed behavioral studies that examine the social costs and benefits of plumage convergence to explicitly test for ISDM and other forms of mimicry in these Atlantic Forest woodpecker communities. Future field studies examining potential cases of competitive mimicry should also take into account the mimic\u2019s acoustic behavior, particularly in the presence of putative model species and other heterospecific competitors, as any discontinuity between morphological and behavioral mimicry would likely preclude the possibility of deception.', u'Although genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have found more than a hundred common \nsusceptibility alleles for prostate cancer, the GWAS reported variants jointly explain only 33% of\nrisk to siblings, leaving the majority of the familial risk unexplained. We use targeted sequencing\nof 63 known GWAS risk regions in 9,237 men from four ancestries (African, Latino, Japanese,\nand European) to explore the role of low-frequency variation in risk for prostate cancer. We find\nthat the sequenced variants explain significantly more of the variance in the trait than the known\nGWAS variants, thus showing that part of the missing familial risk lies in poorly tagged causal\nvariants at known risk regions. We report evidence for genetic heterogeneity in SNP effect sizes\nacross different ancestries. We also partition heritability by minor allele frequency (MAF)\nspectrum using variance components methods, and find that a large fraction of heritability (0.12,\ns.e. 0.05; 95% CI [0.03, 0.21]) is explained by rare variants (MAF<0.01) in men of African\nancestry. We use the heritability attributable to rare variants to estimate the coupling between\nselection and allelic effects at 0.48 (95% CI of [0.19, 0.78]) under the Eyre-Walker model. These\nresults imply that natural selection has driven down the frequency of many prostate cancer risk\nalleles over evolutionary history. Overall our results show that a substantial fraction of the risk for\nprostate cancer in men of African ancestry lies in rare variants at known risk loci and suggests\nthat rare variants make a significant contribution to heritability of common traits.', u'The improvement of preclinical cardiotoxicity testing, the discovery of new ion channel-targeted drugs, and the phenotyping and use of stem-cell-derived cardiomyocytes and other biologics all necessitate high-throughput (HT), cellular level electrophysiological interrogation tools. Optical techniques for actuation and sensing provide instant parallelism, enabling contactless dynamic HT testing of cells and small-tissue constructs, not affordable by other means. Here, we consider, computationally and experimentally, the limits of all-optical electrophysiology when applied to drug testing, then implement and validate OptoDyCE, a fully automated system for all-optical cardiac electrophysiology. We validate optical actuation by virally introducing optogenetic drivers in (rat and human) cardiomyocytes or through the modular use of dedicated light-sensitive somatic "spark" cells. We show that this automated all-optical approach provides high-throughput means of cellular interrogation, i.e. allows for dynamic testing of >600 multicellular samples or compounds per hour, and yields high-content information about the action of a drug over time, space and doses.', u'The time-response, dynamics, classification power and relationship with survival of three muscle-based condition indices were analysed in pre-flexion sea bass (Dicentrarchus labrax L.) larvae in response to three feeding treatments: fed, non-fed and late-feeding. Larvae were reared at 19 \xb1 0.8\xb0C and analysed from the second day of feeding (6 days after hatching (DAH)) to just prior the flexion stage (21 DAH). The indices were analysed in trunk muscle at biochemical (RNA/DNA, R/D), histological (percentage of muscle fibre separation, MFS) and morphometric (size-standardised body depth at the anus level, DAZ) level. No index was correlated with muscle length in the fed treatment regardless the period analysed (before or after full external feeding). The R/D was the only index that could detect past feeding differences in larvae \u2264 13 DAH. For larvae > 13 DAH, MFS, R/D and DAZ in that order, yielded the best discrimination among treatments. For late-feeding larvae, latency was two days (R/D) and two-four days (MFS). Dynamics of recovery after food addition was also similar for R/D and MFS. Significant relationships between muscle growth and R/D or MFS were only found in larvae > 13 DAH. Both R/D and MFS encompassed the mass mortality event observed in non-fed larvae at 17 DAH. The DAZ largely failed to give information on the feeding status.', u"Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have proven a valuable tool to explore the genetic basis of many traits. However, many GWAS lack statistical power and the commonly used single-point analysis method needs to be complemented to enhance power and interpretation. Multivariate region or gene-wide association are an alternative, allowing for identification of disease genes in a manner more robust to allelic heterogeneity. Gene-based association also facilitates systems biology analyses by generating a single p-value per gene. We have designed and implemented FORGE, a software suite which implements a range of methods for the combination of p-values for the individual genetic variants within a gene or genomic region. The software can be used with summary statistics (marker ids and p-values) and accepts as input the result file formats of commonly used genetic association software. When applied to a study of Crohn's disease susceptibility, it identified all genes found by single SNP analysis and additional genes identified by large independent meta-analysis. FORGE p-values on gene-set analyses highlighted association with the Jak-STAT and cytokine signalling pathways, both previously associated with CD. We highlight the software's main features, its future development directions and provide a comparison with alternative available software tools. FORGE can be freely accessed at https://github.com/inti/FORGE.", u'Biological organisms rely on their ability to sense and respond appropriately to their environment. The molecular mechanisms that facilitate these essential processes are however subject to a range of random effects and stochastic processes, which jointly affect the reliability of information transmission between receptors and e.g. the physiological downstream response. Information is mathematically defined in terms of the entropy; and the extent of information flowing across an information channel or signalling system is typically measured by the ``mutual information", or the reduction in the uncertainty about the output once the input signal is known. Here we quantify how extrinsic and intrinsic noise affect the transmission of simple signals along simple motifs of molecular interaction networks. Even for very simple systems the effects of the different sources of variability alone and in combination can give rise to bewildering complexity. In particular extrinsic variability is apt to generate ``apparent" information that can in extreme cases mask the actual information that for a single system would flow between the different molecular components making up cellular signalling pathways. We show how this artificial inflation in apparent information  arises and how the effects of different types of noise alone and in combination can be understood.\n\n(Accepted for Publication in Journal of the Royal Society Interface)', u'In proteomics, a large proportion of mass spectrometry (MS) data is ignored due to the lack of, or insufficient statistical evidence for mappable peptides. In reality, only a small fraction of features are expected to be differentially relevant anyway. Mapping spectra to peptides and subsequently, proteins, produces uncertainty at several levels. We propose it is better to analyze proteomic profiling data directly at MS level, and then relate these features to peptides/proteins. In a renal cancer data comprising 12 normal and 12 cancer subjects, we demonstrate that a simple rule-based binning approach can give rise to informative features. We note that the peptides associated with significant spectral bins gave rise to better class separation than the corresponding proteins, suggesting a loss of signal in the peptide-to-protein transition. Additionally, the binning approach sharpens focus on relevant protein splice forms rather than just canonical sequences. Taken together, the inverted raw spectra analysis paradigm, which is realised by the MZ-Bin method described in this article, provides new possibilities and insights, in how MS-data can be interpreted.', u'Although a large number of methods exist to control the dynamics of populations to a desired state, few of them have been empirically validated. This limits the scope of using these methods in real-life scenarios. To address this issue, we tested the efficacy of two well-known control methods in enhancing different kinds of stability in highly fluctuating, extinction-prone populations of Drosophila melanogaster. The Upper Limiter Control (ULC) method was able to reduce the fluctuations in population sizes as well as the extinction probability of the populations. On the negative side, it had no effect on the effective population size and required a large amount of effort. On the other hand, Lower Limiter Control (LLC) enhanced effective population size and reduced extinction probability at a relatively low amount of effort. However, its effects on population fluctuations were equivocal. We examined the population size distributions with and without the control methods, to derive biologically intuitive explanations for how these control methods work. We also show that biologically-realistic simulations, using a very general population dynamics model, are able to capture most of the trends of our data. This suggests that our results are likely to be generalizable to a wide range of scenarios.', u'Reducing insulin-like growth factor I receptor (IGF-IR) levels or administration of IGF-I show beneficial effects in the brain. We now provide evidence to help resolve this paradox. The unliganded IGF-IR inhibits glucose uptake by astrocytes while its stimulation with IGF-I, in concert with insulin activation of the insulin receptor, produces the opposite effect. In vivo imaging showed that shRNA interference of brain IGF-IR increased glucose uptake by astrocytes while pharmacological blockade of IGF-IR reduced it. Brain 18FGlucose-PET of IGF-IR shRNA injected mice confirmed an inhibitory role of unliganded IGF-IR on glucose uptake, whereas glucose-dependent recovery of neuronal activity in brain slices was blunted by pharmacological blockade of IGF-IR. Mechanistically, we found that the unliganded IGF-IR retains glucose transporter 1 (GLUT1), the main glucose transporter in astrocytes, inside the cell while IGF-I, in cooperation with insulin, synergistically stimulates MAPK/PKD to promote association of IGF-IR with GLUT 1 via Rac1/GIPC1 and increases GLUT1 availability at the cell membrane. These findings identify IGF-I and its receptor as antagonistic modulators of brain glucose uptake.', u'Objectives: The evolution of resistance against antimicrobial peptides has long been considered unlikely due to their mechanism of action, yet experimental selection with AMPs results in rapid evolution of resistance in several species of bacteria. Although numerous studies have utilized mutant screens to identify loci that determine AMP susceptibility, there is a dearth of data concerning the genomic changes which accompany experimental evolution of AMP resistance.\nMethods: Using genome re-sequencing we analysed the mutations which arise during experimental evolution of resistance to the cationic AMPs iseganan, melittin and pexiganan, as well as to a combination of melittin and pexiganan, or to the aminoglycoside antibiotic streptomycin.\nResults: Analysis of 17 independently replicated Staphylococcus aureus selection lines, including unselected controls, showed that each AMP selected for mutations at distinct loci. We identify mutations in genes involved in the synthesis and maintenance of the cell envelope. This includes genes previously identified from mutant screens for AMP resistance, and genes involved in the response to AMPs and cell-wall-active antibiotics. Furthermore, transposon insertion mutants were used to verify that a number of the identified genes are directly involved in determining AMP susceptibility.\nConclusions: Strains selected for AMP resistance under controlled experimental evolution  displayed consistent AMP-specific mutations in genes which determine AMP susceptibility. This suggests that different routes to evolve resistance are favored within a controlled genetic background.', u'Children with systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis (SJIA) are affected by a wide-range of complications. Partially arising from the difficulty of diagnosis due to the idiopathic nature of the indication. There may be a genetic basis for SJIA, which could help in both diagnosis, and treatment.\nTwo mutations in the Fc epsilon RI pathway, including PIK3CD, were detected in low-coverage Ion Torrent data. Variants of unknown significance were detected within HLA regions on standard Illumina exomes. CSF2RA, which could account for pulmonary observations, had insignificant coverage on both datasets.', u'What are the structural determinants of protein sequence evolution? A number of site-specific structural characteristics have been proposed, most of which are broadly related to either the density of contacts or the solvent accessibility of individual residues. Most importantly, there has been disagreement in the literature over the relative importance of solvent accessibility and local packing density for explaining site-specific sequence variability in proteins. We show here that this discussion has been confounded by the definition of local packing density. The most commonly used measures of local packing, such as the contact number and the weighted contact number, represent by definition the combined effects of local packing density and longer-range effects. As an alternative, we here propose a truly local measure of packing density around a single residue, based on the Voronoi cell volume. We show that the Voronoi cell volume, when calculated relative to the geometric center of amino-acid side chains, behaves nearly identically to the relative solvent accessibility, and both can explain, on average, approximately 34\\% of the site-specific variation in evolutionary rate in a data set of 209 enzymes. An additional 10\\% of variation can be explained by non-local effects that are captured in the weighted contact number. Consequently, evolutionary variation at a site is determined by the combined action of the immediate amino-acid neighbors of that site and of effects mediated by more distant amino acids. We conclude that instead of contrasting solvent accessibility and local packing density, future research should emphasize the relative importance of immediate contacts and longer-range effects on evolutionary variation.', u'Recurrent (e.g. parallel or convergent) evolution is widely cited as evidence for natural selection\u2019s central role in evolution but can also highlight constraints affecting evolution. Here we describe the evolution of green and melanistic color phenotypes in two species of stick insect: Timema podura and T. cristinae. We show that similar color phenotypes of these species (1) cluster in phenotypic space and (2) confer crypsis on different plant microhabitats. We then use genome-wide association mapping to determine the genetic architecture of color in T. podura, and compare this to previous results in T. cristinae. In both species, color is under simple genetic control, dominance relationships of melanistic and green alleles are the same, and SNPs associated with color phenotypes colocalize to the same genomic region. These results differ from those of \u2018typical\u2019 parallel phenotypes because the form of selection acting on color differs between species: a balance of multiple sources of selection acting within host species maintains the color polymorphism in T. cristinae whereas T. podura color phenotypes are under divergent selection between hosts. Our results highlight how different adaptive landscapes can result in the evolution of similar phenotypic variation, and suggest the same genomic region is involved.', u'The assembly of DNA sequence data into finished genomes is undergoing a renaissance thanks to emerging technologies producing reads of tens of kilobases. Assembling complete bacterial and small eukaryotic genomes is now possible, but the final step of circularizing sequences remains unsolved. Here we present Circlator, the first tool to automate assembly circularization and produce accurate linear representations of circular sequences. Using Pacific Biosciences and Oxford Nanopore data, Circlator correctly circularized 26 of 27 circularizable sequences, comprising 11 chromosomes and 12 plasmids from bacteria, the apicoplast and mitochondrion of Plasmodium falciparum and a human mitochondrion. Circlator is available at http://sanger-pathogens.github.io/circlator/.', u'The inference of biological relatedness from DNA sequence data has a wide array of applications, such as in the study of human disease, anthropology and ecology. One of the most common analytical frameworks for performing this inference is to genotype individuals for large numbers of independent genomewide markers and use population allele frequencies to infer the probability of identity-by-descent (IBD) given observed genotypes. Current implementations of this class of methods assume genotypes are known without error. However, with the advent of second generation sequencing data there are now an increasing number of situations where the confidence attached to a particular genotype may be poor because of low coverage. Such scenarios may lead to biased estimates of the kinship coefficient, \u03a6. We describe an approach that utilizes genotype likelihoods rather than a single observed best genotype to estimate \u03a6 and demonstrate that we can accurately infer relatedness in both simulated and real second generation sequencing data from a wide variety of human populations down to at least the third degree when coverage is as low as 2x for both individuals, while other commonly used methods such as PLINK exhibit large biases in such situations. In addition the method appears to be robust when the assumed population allele frequencies are diverged from the true frequencies for realistic levels of genetic drift. This approach has been implemented in the C++ software lcmlkin.', u'Reconstructing the phylogenetic relationships that unite all lineages (the tree of life) is a grand challenge. The paucity of homologous character data across disparately related lineages currently renders direct phylogenetic inference untenable. To reconstruct a comprehensive tree of life we therefore synthesized published phylogenies, together with taxonomic classifications for taxa never incorporated into a phylogeny.  We present a draft tree containing 2.3 million tips -- the Open Tree of Life. Realization of this tree required the assembly of two additional community resources: 1) a novel comprehensive global reference taxonomy; and 2) a database of published phylogenetic trees mapped to this taxonomy. Our open source framework facilitates community comment and contribution, enabling the tree to be continuously updated when new phylogenetic and taxonomic data become digitally available. While data coverage and phylogenetic conflict across the Open Tree of Life illuminate gaps in both the underlying data available for phylogenetic reconstruction and the publication of trees as digital objects, the tree provides a compelling starting point for community contribution. This comprehensive tree will fuel fundamental research on the nature of biological diversity, ultimately providing up-to-date phylogenies for downstream applications in comparative biology, ecology, conservation biology, climate change, agriculture, and genomics.', u'Large magnetic nanoparticles (over 25 nm diameter) are a valuable commodity but remain difficult to synthesize using traditional chemical synthesis methods. Magnetotactic bacteria (MTBs) have evolved mechanisms to produce monodisperse, protected magnetic nanostructures within organelles (magnetosomes). Genomic diversity of MTB species result in unique particle properties that vary in shape and size ranging from 30 nm to 150 nm based on the genetic background. Culturing and engineering MTBs for the production of magnetic nanoparticles carries tremendous potential but is underdeveloped. This primarily because MTBs are difficult to culture and genetically manipulate, limitations that could be alleviated with adaptive evolution. We propose the magnetotrophic reactor, a novel bioreactor system for adaptively evolving MTBs for better growth and magnetosome production. This platform is projected to be superior to the traditional evolution methods since robust growth phenotypes can be selected for while maintaining selective pressure for magnetotaxis. We provide, herein, a quantitative basis for our platform including considerations of continuous evolution, sizing, and magnetic field pulsing. Our proposed fermentation process anticipates scalable production of 1 g/L per day of monodisperse magnetic nanoparticles to enable industrial applications.', u"Background: There has been increasing interest in coalescent models which\nadmit multiple mergers of ancestral lineages; and to model hybridization and\ncoalescence simultaneously.\nResults: Hybrid-Lambda is a software package that simulates gene genealogies\nunder multiple merger and Kingman's coalescent processes within species\nnetworks or species trees. Hybrid-Lambda allows different coalescent processes\nto be specified for different populations, and allows for time to be converted\nbetween generations and coalescent units, by specifying a population size for\neach population. In addition, Hybrid-Lambda can generate simulated datasets,\nassuming the infinitely many sites mutation model, and compute the Fst\nstatistic. As an illustration, we apply Hybrid-Lambda to infer the time of\nsubdivision of certain marine invertebrates under different coalescent processes.\nConclusions: Hybrid-Lambda makes it possible to investigate biogeographic\nconcordance among high fecundity species exhibiting skewed offspring\ndistribution.\nKeywords: hybridization; multiple merger; gene tree; coalescent; FST ; infinite\nsites model; hybrid-lambda; skewed offspring distribution", u'1. Advances in genomics and informatics have enabled the production of large phylogenetic trees. However, the ability to collect large phenotypic datasets has not kept pace. \n\n2. Here, we present a method to quickly and accurately gather morphometric data using crowdsourced image-based landmarking. \n\n3. We find that crowdsourced workers perform similarly to experienced morphologists on the same digitization tasks. We also demonstrate the speed and accuracy of our method on seven families of ray-finned fishes (Actinopterygii).\n\n4. Crowdsourcing will enable the collection of morphological data across vast radiations of organisms, and can facilitate richer inference on the macroevolutionary processes that shape phenotypic diversity across the tree of life.', u'As a chromosome is sliced into pieces by recombination after entering an admixed population, ancestral tracks of chromosomes are shortened with the pasting of generations. The length distribution of ancestral tracks reflects information of recombination and thus can be used to infer the histories of admixed populations. Previous studies have shown that inference based on ancestral tracks is powerful in recovering the histories of admixed populations. However, population histories are always complex, and previous studies only deduced the length distribution of ancestral tracks under very simple admixture models. The deduction of length distribution of ancestral tracks under a more general model will greatly elevate the power in inferring population histories. Here we first deduced the length distribution of ancestral tracks under a general model in an admixed population, and proposed general principles in parameter estimation and model selection with the length distribution. Next, we focused on studying the length distribution of ancestral tracks and its applications under three typical admixture models, which were all special cases of our general model. Extensive simulations showed that the length distribution of ancestral tracks was well predicted by our theoretical models. We further developed a new method based on the length distribution of ancestral tracks and good performance was observed when it was applied in inferring population histories under the three typical models. Notably, our method was insensitive to demographic history, sample size and threshold to discard short tracks. Finally, we applied our method in African Americans and Mexicans from the HapMap dataset, and several South Asian populations from the Human Genome Diversity Project dataset. The results showed that the histories of African Americans and Mexicans matched the historical records well, and the population admixture history of South Asians was very complex and could be traced back to around 100 generations ago.', u"Several recent experimental studies assessed the likelihood of all possible evolutionary paths between ancestral and evolved sequences. All of these studies measured the fitness of the intermediate genotypes and assumed that the advantageous genotypes fix in the population before acquiring the next adaptive mutation along the path. Unfortunately, the successive fixation assumption used by these studies is typically invalid, given that natural selection often maintain alleles at intermediate frequency by a variety of mechanisms such as frequency-dependent selection, local adaptation, clonal interference, and fitness overdominance. Here we simulate adaptive walks using Fisher's geometric model in diploid populations where previous work has shown that adaptation commonly generates balanced polymorphisms through overdominant mutations. We use these simulations to show that the use of the successive fixation assumption in this simple model is largely justified if the goal is to separate viable and inviable paths from each other. However, the estimates of the relative likelihoods of the viable paths become unreliable. We also show that the presence of balanced states along the true path significantly affects the number and likelihood distribution of viable paths when compared to walks without balanced states. These simple simulations highlight the importance of considering the effect of polymorphisms during adaptation especially given the prevalence of functional polymorphisms in natural populations.", u'Analyses of living and fossil taxa are crucial for understanding changes in biodiversity through time.\nThe Total Evidence method allows living and fossil taxa to be combined in phylogenies, by using molecular data for living taxa and morphological data for both living and fossil taxa.\nWith this method, substantial overlap of morphological data among living and fossil taxa is crucial for accurately inferring topology.\nHowever, although molecular data for living species is widely available, scientists using and generating morphological data mainly focus on fossils.\nTherefore, there is a gap in our knowledge of neontological morphological data even in well-studied groups such as mammals.\n\nWe investigated the amount of morphological (cladistic) data available for living mammals and how this data was phylogenetically distributed across orders.\n22 of 28 mammalian orders have < 25% species with available morphological data; this has implications for the accurate placement of fossil taxa, although the issue is less pronounced at higher taxonomic levels. \nIn most orders, species with available data are randomly distributed across the phylogeny, which may reduce the impact of the problem.\nWe suggest that increased morphological data collection efforts for living taxa are needed to produce accurate Total Evidence phylogenies.', u'The Cas9/CRISPR system is a powerful tool for studying gene function. Here we describe a method that allows temporal control of Cas9/CRISPER activity based on conditional CAS9 destabilization. We demonstrate that fusing an FKBP12-derived destabilizing domain to Cas9 enables conditional rapid and reversible Cas9 expression in vitro and efficient gene-editing in the presence of a guide RNA. Further, we show that this strategy can be easily adapted to co-express, from the same promoter, DD-Cas9 with any other gene of interest, without the latter being co-modulated. In particular, when co-expressed with inducible Cre-ERT2, our system enables parallel, independent manipulation of alleles targeted by Cas9 and traditional recombinase with single-cell specificity. We anticipate this platform will be used for the systematic identification of essential genes and the interrogation of genes functional interactions.', u'This laboratory has previously shown that nuclear import of CaMV P6 is required for infection and suppression of the RNA silencing factor DRB4. EMBO J., 27:2102 - 2112.  In the original paper, there were inadvertent errors in the mounting of a figure.  We have now repeated the experiments concerned, using the seed stock of the corresponding transgenic plants.  The results presented here confirm those reported in the original paper. The plants expressing P6 are strongly stunted with chlorotic and serrated leaves. Conversely, the transgenic expression of various P6 mutant alleles do not induce this phenotype.', u'We propose a new numerical model to describe thrombus formation in cerebral aneurysms. This model combines CFD simulations with a set of bio-mechanical processes identified as being the most important to describe the phenomena at a large space and time scales. The hypotheses of the model are based on in vitro experiments and clinical observations. We document that we can reproduce very well the shape and volume of patient specific thrombus segmented in giant aneurysms.', u'Second-generation sequencers (SGS) have been game-changing, achieving cost-effective whole genome sequencing in many non-model organisms. However, a large portion of the genomes still remains unassembled. We reconstructed azuki bean (Vigna angularis) genome using single molecule real-time (SMRT) sequencing technology and achieved the best contiguity and coverage among currently assembled legume crops. The SMRT-based assembly produced 100 times longer contigs with 100 times smaller amount of gaps compared to the SGS-based assemblies. A detailed comparison between the assemblies revealed that the SMRT-based assembly enabled a more comprehensive gene annotation than the SGS-based assemblies where thousands of genes were missing or fragmented. A chromosome-scale assembly was generated based on the high-density genetic map, covering 86% of the azuki bean genome. We demonstrated that SMRT technology, though still needed to be assisted by SGS data, can achieve a near-complete assembly of a eukaryotic genome.', u'Abstract\nA number of universals can be observed in the developing embryos of all phyla. An attempt is made here to describe some of these with a simple model, one consisting of two mutually repelling regions of gene patterning produced by signaling pathways, two acting at each growth phase. The diffusion of ligands is short range, nearest or near neighbors, but the transcription patterns extend over many cellular diameters. The universals discussed are: gastrulation, formation of a blastopore, patterning of stem cells as surrounding compartments (propagating anew with each growth phase, to the adult), the origin of bilaterality, the prevalence of segmentation, and the general ability to regenerate and duplicate. The origin of organ sizes are determined by the parameters of the signaling pathways involved, independent of cell sizes or numbers. The important fiber mesh, or fiber network that can also extend over many cell diameters is also briefly discussed, and is seen as a partner with the signaling pathways in the overall patterning.', u'Natural selection reduces neutral population genetic diversity near coding regions of the genome because recombination has not had time to unlink selected alleles from nearby neutral regions. For ten sub-species of great apes, including human, we show that long-term selection affects estimates of divergence on the X differently from the autosomes. Divergence increases with increasing distance from genes on both the X chromosome and autosomes, but increases faster on the X chromosome than autosomes, resulting in increasing ratios of X/A divergence in putatively neutral regions. Similarly, divergence is reduced more on the X chromosome in neutral regions near conserved regulatory elements than on the autosomes. Consequently estimates of male mutation bias, which rely on comparing neutral divergence between the X and autosomes, are twice as high in neutral regions near genes versus far from genes. Our results suggest filters for putatively neutral genomic regions differ between the X and autosomes.', u"The structure of environmentally induced phenotypic covariation can influence the effective strength and magnitude of natural selection. Yet our understanding of the factors that contribute to and influence the evolutionary lability of such covariation is poor. Most studies have examined either environmental variation, without accounting for covariation, or examined phenotypic and genetic covariation, without distinguishing the environmental component. In this study we examined the effect of mutational perturbations on different properties of environmental covariation, as well as mean shape. We use strains of Drosophila melanogaster bearing well-characterized mutations known to influence wing shape, as well as naturally-derived strains, all reared under carefully-controlled conditions and with the same genetic background. We find that mean shape changes more freely than the covariance structure, and that different properties of the covariance matrix change independently from each other. The perturbations affect matrix orientation more than they affect matrix size or eccentricity. Yet, mutational effects on matrix orientation do not cluster according to the developmental pathway that they target. These results suggest that it might be useful to consider a more general concept of 'decanalization', involving all aspects of variation and covariation.", u'In this paper I address the question - how large is a phylogenetic sample? I propose a definition of a phylogenetic effective sample size for Brownian motion and Ornstein-Uhlenbeck processes - the regression effective sample size. I discuss how mutual information can be used to define an effective sample size in the non-normal process case and compare these two definitions to an already present concept of effective sample size (the mean effective sample size). Through a simulation study I find that the AICc is robust if one corrects for the number of species or effective number of species. Lastly I discuss how the concept of the phylogenetic effective sample size can be useful for biodiversity quantification, identification of interesting clades and deciding on the importance of phylogenetic correlations', u'The relationships between the core-periphery architecture of the species interaction network and the mechanisms ensuring the stability in mutualistic ecological communities are still unclear. In particular, most studies have focused their attention on asymptotic resilience or persistence, neglecting how perturbations propagate through the system. Here we develop a theoretical framework to evaluate the relationship between architecture of the interaction networks and the impact of perturbations by studying localization, a measure describing the ability of the perturbation to propagate through the network. We show that mutualistic ecological communities are localized, and localization reduces perturbation propagation and attenuates its impact on species abundance. Localization depends on the topology of the interaction networks, and it positively correlates with the variance of the weighted degree distribution, a signature of the network topological hetereogenity. Our results provide a different perspective on the interplay between the architecture of interaction networks in mutualistic communities and their stability.', u'The study of human evolution has been revolutionized by inferences from ancient DNA analyses. Key to these is the reliable estimation of the age of ancient specimens. The current best practice is radiocarbon dating, which relies on characterizing the decay of radioactive carbon isotope (14C), and is applicable for dating up to 50,000-year-old samples. Here, we introduce a new genetic method that uses recombination clock for dating. The key idea is that an ancient genome has evolved less than the genomes of extant individuals. Thus, given a molecular clock provided by the steady accumulation of recombination events, one can infer the age of the ancient genome based on the number of missing years of evolution. To implement this idea, we take advantage of the shared history of Neanderthal gene flow into non-Africans that occurred around 50,000 years ago. Using the Neanderthal ancestry decay patterns, we estimate the Neanderthal admixture time for both ancient and extant samples. The difference in these admixture dates then provides an estimate of the age of the ancient genome. We show that our method provides reliable results in simulations. We apply our method to date five ancient Eurasian genomes with radiocarbon dates ranging between 12,000 to 45,000 years and recover consistent age estimates. Our method provides a complementary approach for dating ancient human samples and is applicable to ancient non-African genomes with Neanderthal ancestry. Extensions of this methodology that use older shared events may be able to date ancient genomes that fall beyond the radiocarbon frontier.', u'Wildfires and mountain pine beetle (MPB) attacks are important contributors to the development of stand structure in lodgepole pine, and major drivers of its evolution. The historical pattern of these events have been correlated with variation in cone serotiny (possessing cones that remain closed and retain seeds until opened by fire) across the Rocky Mountain region of Western North America. As climate change brings about a marked increase in the size, intensity, and severity of our wildfires, it is becoming increasingly important to study the genetic basis of serotiny as an adaptation to wildfire. Knowledge gleaned from these studies would have direct implications for forest management in the future, and for the future. In this study, we collected physical data and DNA samples from 122 trees of two different areas in the IDF-dk of British Columbia; multi-cohort stands (Cariboo-Chilcotin) with a history of mixed-severity fire and frequent MPB disturbances, and single-cohort stands (Logan Lake) with a history of stand replacing (crown) fire and infrequent MPB disturbances. We used QuantiNemo to construct simulated populations of lodgepole pine at five different growth rates, and compared the statistical outputs to physical data, then ran a random forest analysis to shed light on sources of variation in serotiny. We also sequenced 39 SNPs, of which 23 failed or were monomorphic. The 16 informative SNPs were used to calculate HO and HE, which were included alongside genotypes for a second random forest analysis. Our best random forest model explained 33% of variation in serotiny, using simulation and physical variables. Our results highlight the need for more investigation into this matter, using more extensive approaches, and also consideration of alternative methods of heredity such as epigenetics.', u"In many eusocial species, queens use pheromones to influence offspring to express worker phenotypes. While evidence suggests that queen pheromones are honest signals of the queen's reproductive health, here I show that queen's honest signaling can result from ancestral maternal manipulation. I develop a mathematical model to study the coevolution of maternal manipulation, offspring resistance to manipulation, and maternal resource allocation. I assume that (1) maternal manipulation causes offspring to be workers against offspring's interests; (2) offspring can resist at no direct cost, as is thought to be the case with pheromonal manipulation; and (3) the mother chooses how much resource to allocate to fertility and maternal care. In the coevolution of these traits, I find that maternal care decreases, thereby increasing the benefit that offspring obtain from help, which in the long run eliminates selection for resistance. Consequently, ancestral maternal manipulation yields stable eusociality despite costless resistance. Additionally, ancestral manipulation in the long run becomes honest signaling that induces offspring to help. These results indicate that both eusociality and its commonly associated queen honest signaling can be likely to originate from ancestral manipulation.", u'Detailed, precise, three-dimensional (3D) representations of individual trees are a prerequisite for an accurate assessment of tree competition, growth, and morphological plasticity. Until recently, our ability to measure the dimensionality, spatial arrangement, shape of trees, and shape of tree components with precision  has been constrained by technological and logistical limitations and cost. Traditional methods of forest biometrics provide only partial measurements and are labor intensive. Active remote technologies such as LiDAR operated from airborne platforms provide only partial crown reconstructions. The use of terrestrial LiDAR is laborious, has portability limitations and high cost. In this work we capitalized on recent improvements in the capabilities and availability of small unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), light and inexpensive cameras, and developed an affordable method for obtaining precise and comprehensive 3D models of trees and small groups of trees. The method employs slow-moving UAVs that acquire images along predefined trajectories near and around targeted trees, and computer vision-based approaches that process the images to obtain detailed tree reconstructions. After we confirmed the potential of the methodology via simulation we evaluated several UAV platforms, strategies for image acquisition, and image processing algorithms. We present an original, step-by-step workflow which utilizes open source programs and original software. We anticipate that future development and applications of our method will improve our understanding of forest self-organization emerging from the competition among trees, and will lead to a refined generation of individual-tree-based forest models.', u'Herbaria archive a record of changes of worldwide plant biodiversity harboring millions of specimens that contain DNA suitable for genome sequencing. To profit from this resource, it is fundamental to understand in detail the process of DNA degradation in herbarium specimens.  We investigated patterns of DNA fragmentation -length and base composition at breaking points-, and nucleotide misincorporation by analyzing 86 herbarium samples spanning the last 300 years using Illumina shot-gun sequencing. We found an exponential decay relationship between DNA fragmentation and time, and estimated a per nucleotide fragmentation rate of 1.66 x 10-4 per year, which is ten times faster than the rate estimated for fossilized bones. Additionally, we found that strand breaks occur specially before purines, and that depurination-driven DNA breakage occurs constantly through time and can to a great extent explain decreasing fragment length over time. Similar of what has been found analyzing ancient DNA from bones, we found a strong correlation between the deamination-driven accumulation of cytosine (C) to thymine (T) substitutions and time, which reinforces the importance of substitution patterns to authenticate the ancient/historical nature of DNA fragments. Accurate estimations of DNA degradation through time will allow informed decisions about laboratory and computational procedures to take advantage of the vast collection of worldwide herbarium specimens.', u'Background: Species tree estimation is challenged by gene tree heterogeneity resulting from biological processes such as duplication and loss, hybridization, incomplete lineage sorting (ILS), and horizontal gene transfer (HGT). Mathematical theory about reconstructing species trees in the presence of HGT alone or ILS alone suggests that quartet-based species tree methods (known to be statistically consistent under ILS, or under bounded amounts of HGT) might be effective techniques for estimating species trees when both HGT and ILS are present.\n\nResults: We evaluated several publicly available coalescent-based methods and concatenation under maximum likelihood on simulated datasets with moderate ILS and varying levels of HGT. Our study shows that two quartet-based species tree estimation methods (ASTRAL-2 and weighted Quartets MaxCut) are both highly accurate, even on datasets with high rates of HGT. In contrast, although NJst and concatenation using maximum likelihood are highly accurate under low HGT, they are less robust to high HGT rates.\n\nConclusion: Our study shows that quartet-based species-tree estimation\nmethods can be highly accurate under the presence of both HGT and ILS. The study suggests the possibility that some quartet-based methods might be statistically consistent under phylogenomic models of gene tree heterogeneity with both HGT and ILS.\n\nKeywords: phylogenomics; HGT; ILS; summary methods; concatenation', u'The nonrandom distribution of meiotic recombination shapes heredity and genetic diversification. A widely held view is that individual hotspots \u2014 favored sites of recombination initiation \u2014 are always ephemeral because they evolve rapidly toward extinction. An alternative view, often ignored or dismissed as implausible, predicts conservation of the positions of hotspots if they are chromosomal features under selective constraint, such as gene promoters. Here we empirically test opposite predictions of these theories by comparing genome-wide maps of meiotic recombination initiation from widely divergent species in the Saccharomyces clade. We find that the frequent overlap of hotspots with promoters is true of the species tested and, consequently, hotspot positions are well conserved. Remarkably, however, the relative strength of individual hotspots is also highly conserved, as are larger-scale features of the distribution of recombination initiation. This stability, not predicted by prior models, suggests that the particular shape of the yeast recombination landscape is adaptive, and helps in understanding evolutionary dynamics of recombination in other species.', u'The complex eukaryotic cell is a result of an ancient endosymbiosis and one of the major evolutionary transitions. The timing of key eukaryotic innovations relative to the acquisition of mitochondria remains subject to considerable debate, yet the evolutionary process itself might constrain the order of these events. Endosymbiosis entailed levels-of-selection conflicts, and mechanisms of conflict mediation had to evolve for eukaryogenesis to proceed. The initial mechanisms of conflict mediation were based on the pathways inherited from prokaryotic symbionts and led to metabolic homeostasis in the eukaryotic cell, while later mechanisms (e.g., mitochondrial gene transfer) contributed to the expansion of the eukaryotic genome. Perhaps the greatest opportunity for conflict arose with the emergence of sex involving whole-cell fusion. While early evolution of cell fusion may have affected symbiont acquisition, sex together with the competitive symbiont behaviour would have destabilised the emerging higher-level unit. Cytoplasmic mixing, on the other hand, would have been beneficial for selfish endosymbionts, capable of using their own metabolism to manipulate the life history of the host. Given the results of our mathematical modelling, we argue that sex represents a rather late proto- eukaryotic innovation, allowing for the growth of the chimeric nucleus and contributing to the successful completion of the evolutionary transition.', u'Although the DNA-binding protein PRDM9 plays a critical role in the specification of meiotic recombination hotspots in mice and apes, it appears to be absent from many vertebrate species, including birds. To learn about the determinants of fine-scale recombination rates and their evolution in natural populations lacking PRDM9, we inferred fine-scale recombination maps from population resequencing data for two bird species, the zebra finch Taeniopygia guttata, and the long-tailed finch, Poephila acuticauda, whose divergence is on par with that between human and chimpanzee. We find that both bird species have hotspots, and these are enriched near CpG islands and transcription start sites. In sharp contrast to what is seen in mice and apes, the hotspots are largely shared between the two species, with indirect evidence of conservation extending across bird species tens of millions of years diverged. These observations link the evolution of hotspots to their genetic architecture, suggesting that in the absence of PRDM9 binding specificity, accessibility of the genome to the cellular recombination machinery, particularly around functional genomic elements, both enables increased recombination and constrains its evolution.', u'Measuring relative fitness by pairwise competition experiments is laborious and expensive. Accordingly, many investigators estimate fitness from the maximum growth rate during exponential growth. However, maximum growth rates have been shown to be an unreliable measure of fitness as indicated by discrepancies between these parameters and the outcomes of pairwise competition experiments. Here we propose a new method that estimates relative fitness by predicting the results of competition experiments from single strain growth curves.', u'We exploit the methodological similarity between ancestral genome reconstruction and extant genome scaffolding. We present a method, called \\decopp\\ that constructs neighborhood relationships between genes or contigs, in both ancestral and extant genomes, in a phylogenetic context. It is able to handle dozens of complete genomes, including genes with complex histories, by using gene phylogenies reconciled with a species tree, that is, annotated with speciation, duplication and loss events. Reconstructed ancestral or extant synteny comes with a support computed from an exhaustive exploration of the solution space.\nWe compare our method with a previously published one that follows the same goal on a small number of genomes with universal unicopy genes. Then we test it on the whole Ensembl database, by proposing partial ancestral genome structures, as well as a more complete scaffolding for many partially assembled genomes on 69 eukaryote species.\nWe carefully analyze a couple of extant adjacencies proposed by our method, and show that they are indeed real links in the extant genomes, that were missing in the current assembly.\nOn a reduced data set of 39 eutherian mammals, we estimate the precision and sensitivity of \\decopp\\ by simulating a fragmentation in some well assembled genomes, and measure how many adjacencies are recovered. We find a very high precision, while the sensitivity depends on the quality of the data and on the proximity of closely related genomes.', u'Testing for conserved and novel mechanisms underlying phenotypic evolution requires a diversity of genomes available for comparison spanning multiple independent lineages. For example, complex social behavior in insects has been investigated primarily with eusocial lineages, nearly all of which are Hymenoptera. If conserved genomic influences on sociality do exist, we need data from a wider range of taxa that also vary in their levels of sociality. Here we present information on the genome of the subsocial beetle Nicrophorus vespilloides, a species long used to investigate evolutionary questions of complex social behavior. We used this genome to address two questions. First, does life history predict overlap in gene models more strongly than phylogenetic groupings? Second, like other insects with highly developed social behavior but unlike other beetles, does N. vespilloides have DNA methylation? We found the overlap in gene models was similar between N. vespilloides and all other insect groups regardless of life history. Unlike previous studies of beetles, we found strong evidence of DNA methylation, which allows this species to be used to address questions about the potential role of methylation in social behavior. The addition of this genome adds a coleopteran resource to answer questions about the evolution and mechanistic basis of sociality.', u'Most organisms live in ever-challenging temporally fluctuating environments. Theory suggests that the evolution of anticipatory (or deterministic) maternal effects underlies adaptation to environments that regularly fluctuate every other generation because of selection for increased offspring performance. Evolution of maternal bet-hedging reproductive strategies that randomize offspring phenotypes is in turn expected to underlie adaptation to irregularly fluctuating environments. Although maternal effects are ubiquitous their adaptive significance is unknown since they can easily evolve as a correlated response to selection for increased maternal performance. Using the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, we show the experimental evolution of maternal provisioning of offspring with glycogen, in populations facing a novel anoxia hatching environment every other generation. As expected with the evolution of deterministic maternal effects, improved embryo hatching survival under anoxia evolved at the expense of fecundity and glycogen provisioning when mothers experienced anoxia early in life. Unexpectedly, populations facing an irregularly fluctuating anoxia hatching environment failed to evolve maternal bet-hedging reproductive strategies. Instead, adaptation in these populations should have occurred through the evolution of balancing trade-offs over multiple generations, since they evolved reduced fitness over successive generations in anoxia but did not go extinct during experimental evolution. Mathematical modelling confirms our conclusion that adaptation to a wide range of patterns of environmental fluctuations hinges on the existence of deterministic maternal effects, and that they are generally much more likely to contribute to adaptation than maternal bet-hedging reproductive strategies.', u'Background: Incomplete lineage sorting (ILS), modelled by the multi-species\ncoalescent (MSC), is known to create discordance between gene trees and species\ntrees, and lead to inaccurate species tree estimations unless appropriate methods\nare used to estimate the species tree. While many statistically consistent methods\nhave been developed to estimate the species tree in the presence of ILS, only\nASTRAL-2 and NJst have been shown to have good accuracy on large datasets.\nYet, NJst is generally slower and less accurate than ASTRAL-2, and cannot run\non some datasets.\nResults: We have redesigned NJst to enable it to run on all datasets, and we have\nexpanded its design space so that it can be used with different distance-based\ntree estimation methods. The resultant method, ASTRID, is statistically\nconsistent under the MSC model, and has accuracy that is competitive with\nASTRAL-2. Furthermore, ASTRID is much faster than ASTRAL-2, completing in\nminutes on some datasets for which ASTRAL-2 used hours.\nConclusions: ASTRID is a new coalescent-based method for species tree\nestimation that is competitive with the best current method in terms of accuracy,\nwhile being much faster. ASTRID is available in open source form on github.', u'Uniparental reproduction in diploids, via asexual reproduction or selfing, reduces the independence with which separate loci are transmitted across generations.  This is expected to increase the extent to which a neutral marker is affected by selection elsewhere in the genome.  Such effects have previously been quantified in coalescent models involving selfing.  Here we examine the effects of background selection and balancing selection in diploids capable of both sexual and asexual reproduction (i.e., partial asexuality). We find that the effect of background selection on reducing coalescent time (and effective population size) can be orders of magnitude greater when rates of sex are low than when sex is common.  This is because asexuality enhances the effects of background selection through both a recombination effect and a segregation effect.  We show that there are several reasons that the strength of background selection differs between systems with partial asexuality and those with comparable levels of uniparental reproduction via selfing. Expectations for reductions in Ne via background selection have been verified using stochastic simulations. In contrast to background selection, balancing selection increases the coalescent time for a linked neutral site.  With partial asexuality, the effect of balancing selection is somewhat dependent upon the mode of selection (e.g., heterozygote advantage vs. negative frequency dependent selection) in a manner that does not apply to selfing.  This is because the frequency of heterozygotes, which are required for recombination onto alternative genetic backgrounds, is more dependent on the pattern of selection with partial asexuality than with selfing.', u'A key quantity in the analysis of structured populations is the parameter K, which describes the number of subpopulations that make up the total population. Inference of K ideally proceeds via the model evidence, which is equivalent to the likelihood of the model. However, the evidence in favour of a particular value of K cannot usually be computed exactly, and instead programs such as STRUCTURE make use of simple heuristic estimators to approximate this quantity. We show - using simulated data sets small enough that the true evidence can be computed exactly - that these simple heuristics often fail to estimate the true evidence, and that this can lead to incorrect conclusions about K. Our proposed solution is to use thermodynamic integration (TI) to estimate the model evidence. After outlining the TI methodology we demonstrate the effectiveness of this approach using a range of simulated data sets. We find that TI can be used to obtain estimates of the model evidence that are orders of magnitude more accurate and precise than those based on simple heuristics. Furthermore, estimates of K based on these values are found to be more reliable than those based on a suite of model comparison statistics. Our solution is implemented for models both with and without admixture in the software TrueK.', u'Altitudinal gradients represent short-range clines of environmental parameters like temperature, radiation, seasonality and pathogen abundance, which allows to study the footprints of natural selection in geographically close populations. We investigated phenotypic variation for frost resistance and light response in five Arabidopsis thaliana populations ranging from 580 to 2,350 meters altitude at two different valleys in the North Italian Alps. All populations were resequenced as pools and we used a Bayesian method to detect correlations between allele frequencies and altitude while accounting for sampling, pooled sequencing and the expected amount of shared drift among populations. The among population variation to frost resistance was not correlated with altitude. An anthocyanin deficiency causing a high leaf mortality was present in the highest population, which may be non-adaptive and potentially deleterious phenotypic variation. The genomic analysis revealed that the two high-altitude populations are more closely related than the geographically close low-altitude populations. A correlation of genetic variation with altitude revealed an enrichment of highly differentiated SNPs located in genes that are associated with biological processes like response to stress and light. We further identified regions with long blocks of presence absence variation suggesting a sweep-like pattern across populations. Our analysis indicate a complex interplay of local adaptation and a demographic history that was influenced by glaciation cycles and/or rapid seed dispersal by animals or other forces.', u'Genomics has recently celebrated reaching the $1000 genome milestone, making affordable DNA sequencing a reality. With this goal successfully completed, the next goal of the sequencing revolution can be sequencing sensors - miniaturized sequencing devices that are manufactured for real time applications and deployed in large quantities at low costs. The first part of this manuscript envisions applications that will benefit from moving the sequencers to the samples in a range of domains. In the second part, the manuscript outlines the critical barriers that need to be addressed in order to reach the goal of ubiquitous sequencing sensors.', u'The precise interpretation of environmental sulfur isotope records requires a quantitative understanding of the biochemical controls on sulfur isotope fractionation by the principle isotope-fractionating process within the S cycle, microbial sulfate reduction (MSR). Here we provide the only direct observation of the major (34S/32S) and minor (33S/32S, 36S/32S) sulfur isotope fractionations imparted by a central enzyme in the energy metabolism of sulfate reducers, dissimilatory sulfite reductase (DsrAB). Results from in vitro sulfite reduction experiments allow us to calculate the in vitro DsrAB isotope effect in 34S/32S (hereafter, 34\u03f5DsrAB) to be 15.3\xb12\u2030, 2\u03c3. The accompanying minor isotope effect in 33S, described as 33\u03bbDsrAB, is calculated to be 0.5150\xb10.0012, 2\u03c3. These observations facilitate a rigorous evaluation of the isotopic fractionation associated with the dissimilatory MSR pathway, as well as of the environmental variables that govern the overall magnitude of fractionation by natural communities of sulfate reducers. The isotope effect induced by DsrAB upon sulfite reduction is a factor of 0.3 to 0.6 times prior indirect estimates, which have ranged from 25 to 53\u2030 in 34\u03f5DsrAB. The minor isotope fractionation observed from DsrAB is consistent with a kinetic or equilibrium effect. Our in vitro constraints on the magnitude of 34\u03f5DsrAB is similar to the median value of experimental observations compiled from all known published work, where 34\u03f5r-p  = 16.1\u2030 (r \u2013 p indicates reactant versus product, n = 648). This value closely matches those of MSR operating at high sulfate reduction rates in both laboratory chemostat experiments (34\u03f5SO4-H2S = 17.3\xb11.5\u2030) and in modern marine sediments (34\u03f5SO4-H2S = 17.3\xb13.8\u2030). Targeting the direct isotopic consequences of a specific enzymatic processes is a fundamental step toward a biochemical foundation for reinterpreting the biogeochemical and geobiological sulfur isotope records in modern and ancient environments.', u'The great density and structural complexity of pulmonary vessels and airways impose limitations on the generation of accurate reference standards, which are critical in training and in the validation of image processing methods for features such as pulmonary vessel segmentation or artery-vein (AV) separations. The design of synthetic computed tomography (CT) images of the lung could overcome these difficulties by providing a database of pseudorealistic cases in a constrained and controlled scenario where each part of the image is differentiated unequivocally. This work demonstrates a complete framework to generate computational anthropomorphic CT phantoms of the human lung automatically. Starting from biological and image-based knowledge about the topology and relationships between structures, the system is able to generate synthetic pulmonary arteries, veins, and airways using iterative growth methods that can be merged into a final simulated lung with realistic features. Visual examination and quantitative measurements of intensity distributions, dispersion of structures and relationships between pulmonary air and blood flow systems show good correspondence between real and synthetic lungs.', u'The selfing syndrome constitutes a suite of floral and reproductive trait changes that have evolved repeatedly across many evolutionary lineages in response to the shift to selfing.\nConvergent evolution of the selfing syndrome suggests that these changes are adaptive, yet our understanding of the detailed molecular genetic basis of the selfing syndrome remains limited. Here, we investigate the role of cis-regulatory changes during the recent evolution of the selfing syndrome in Capsella rubella, which split from the outcrosser Capsella grandiflora less than 200 kya. We assess allele-specific expression (ASE) in leaves and flower buds at a total of 18,452 genes in three interspecific F1 C. grandiflora x C. rubella hybrids. Using a hierarchical Bayesian approach that accounts for technical variation using genomic reads, we find evidence for extensive cis-regulatory changes. On average, 44% of the assayed genes show evidence of ASE, however only 6% show strong allelic expression biases. Flower buds, but not leaves, show an enrichment of cis-regulatory changes in genomic regions responsible for floral and reproductive trait divergence between C. rubella and C. grandiflora. We further detected an excess of heterozygous transposable element (TE) insertions near genes with ASE, and TE insertions targeted by uniquely mapping 24-nt small RNAs were associated with reduced expression of nearby genes. Our results suggest that cis-regulatory changes have been important during the recent adaptive floral evolution in Capsella and that differences in TE dynamics between selfing and outcrossing species could be important for rapid regulatory divergence in association with mating system shifts.', u'Next-generation DNA sequencing has revolutionized the study of biology. However, the short read lengths of the dominant instruments complicate assembly of complex genomes and haplotype phasing of mixtures of similar sequences. Here we demonstrate a method to reconstruct the sequences of individual nucleic acid molecules up to 11.6 kilobases in length from short (150-bp) reads. We show that our method can construct 99.97%-accurate synthetic reads from bacterial, plant, and animal genomic samples, full-length mRNA sequences from human cancer cell lines, and individual HIV env gene variants from a mixture. The preparation of multiple samples can be multiplexed into a single tube, further reducing effort and cost relative to competing approaches. Our approach generates sequencing libraries in three days from less than one microgram of DNA in a single-tube format without custom equipment or specialized expertise.', u'The temporal change of phenotypes during the adaptive process remain largely unexplored, as do the genetic changes that affect these phenotypic changes. Here we focused on three mutations that rose to high frequency in the early stages of adaptation within 12 Escherichia coli populations subjected to thermal stress (42\xb0C). All of the mutations were in the rpoB gene, which encodes the RNA polymerase beta subunit. For each mutation, we measured the growth curves and gene expression (mRNAseq) of clones at 42\xb0C. We also compared growth and gene expression to their ancestor under unstressed (37\xb0C) and stressed conditions (42\xb0C). Each of the three mutations changed the expression of hundreds of genes and conferred large fitness advantages, apparently through the restoration of global gene expression from the stressed towards the pre-stressed state. Finally, we compared the phenotypic characteristics of one mutant, I572L, to two high-temperature adapted clones that have this mutation plus additional background mutations. The background mutations increased fitness, but they did not substantially change gene expression. We conclude that early mutations in a global transcriptional regulator cause extensive changes in gene expression, many of which are likely under positive selection for their effect in restoring the pre-stress physiology.', u'Thousands of candidate human-specific genomic regulatory loci (HSGRL) have been identified, supporting the idea that unique to human phenotypes result from human-specific changes to genomic regulatory networks (GRNs). A notable common feature of HSGRL is a predominant location within non-protein coding sequences. A significant void is the lack of a genome-wide view on diverse families of HSGRL within the context of the principal regulatory structures of the interphase chromatin, namely topologically-associating domains (TADs) and specific sub-TAD structures termed super-enhancer domains (SEDs). Genome-wide proximity placement analysis of 10,598 HSGRL revealed that 0.8%-10.3% of TADs contain more than half of HSGRL. Of the 3,127 TADs in the hESC genome, 24 (0.8%); 53 (1.7%); 259 (8.3%); and 322 (10.3%) harbor 1,110 (52.4%); 1,936 (50.9%); 1,151 (59.6%); and 1,601 (58.3%) HSGRL sequences from four distinct families, respectively. TADs that are enriched for HSGRL and termed rapidly-evolving in humans TADs (revTADs) manifest distinct correlation patterns between HSGRL placements and recombination rates. There are significant enrichment within revTAD boundaries of hESC-enhancers, primate-specific CTCF-binding sites, human-specific RNAPII-binding sites, hCONDELs, and H3K4me3 peaks with human-specific enrichment at TSS in prefrontal cortex neurons (p < 0.0001 in all instances). In hESC genome, 331 of 504 (66%) of SE-harboring TADs contain HSGRL and 68% of SEs co-localize with HSGRL, suggesting that HSGRL rewired SE-driven GRNs within revTADs by inserting novel and/or erasing existing regulatory sequences. Consequently, markedly distinct features of chromatin structures evolved in hESC compared to mouse: the SE quantity is 3-fold higher and the median SE size is significantly larger; concomitantly, the TAD number is increased by 42% while the median TAD size is decreased (p=9.11E-37). Present analyses revealed a global role for HSGRL in increasing both quantity and size of SEs and increasing the number and size reduction of TADs, which may facilitate a convergence of TAD and SED architectures of interphase chromatin and define a trend of increasing regulatory complexity during evolution of GRNs.', u'Background: Species tree estimation is challenging in the presence of incomplete lineage sorting (ILS), which can make gene trees different from the species tree. Because ILS is expected to occur and the standard concatenation approach can return incorrect trees with high support in the presence of ILS, \u201ccoalescent-based\u201d summary methods (which first estimate gene trees and then combine gene trees into a species tree) have been developed that have theoretical guarantees of robustness to arbitrarily high amounts of ILS. Some studies have suggested that summary methods should only be used on \u201cc-genes\u201d (i.e., recombination-free loci) that can be extremely short (sometimes fewer than 100 sites). However, gene trees estimated on short alignments can have high estimation error, and summary methods tend to have high error on short c-genes. To address this problem, Chifman and Kubatko introduced SVDquartets, a new coalescent-based method. SVDquartets takes multi-locus unlinked single-site data, infers the quartet trees for all subsets of four species, and then combines the set of quartet trees into a species tree using a quartet amalgamation heuristic. Yet, the relative accuracy of SVDquartets to leading coalescent-based methods has not been assessed.\n\nResults: We compared SVDquartets to two leading coalescent-based methods (ASTRAL-2 and NJst), and to concatenation using maximum likelihood. We used a collection of simulated datasets, varying ILS levels, numbers of taxa, and number of sites per locus. Although SVDquartets was sometimes more accurate than ASTRAL-2 and NJst, most often the best results were obtained using ASTRAL-2, even on the shortest gene sequence alignments we explored (with only 10 sites per locus). Finally, concatenation was the most accurate of all methods under low ILS conditions.\n\nConclusions: ASTRAL-2 generally had the best accuracy under higher ILS conditions, and concatenation had the best accuracy under the lowest ILS conditions. However, SVDquartets was competitive with the best methods under conditions with low ILS and small numbers of sites per locus. The good performance under many conditions of ASTRAL-2 in comparison to SVDquartets is surprising given the known vulnerability of ASTRAL-2 and similar methods to short gene sequences.', u'Biological production of terminal alkenes has garnered a significant interest due to their industrial applications such as lubricants, detergents and fuels. Here, we engineered the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae to produce terminal alkenes via a one-step fatty acid decarboxylation pathway and improved the alkene production using combinatorial engineering strategies. In brief, we first characterized eight fatty acid decarboxylases to enable and enhance alkene production. We then increased the production titer 7-fold by improving the availability of the precursor fatty acids. We additionally increased the titer about 5-fold through genetic cofactor engineering and gene expression tuning in rich medium. Lastly, we further improved the titer 1.8-fold to 3.7 mg/L by optimizing the culturing conditions in bioreactors. This study represents the first report of terminal alkene biosynthesis in S. cerevisiae, and the abovementioned combinatorial engineering approaches collectively increased the titer 67.4-fold. We envision that these approaches could provide insights into devising engineering strategies to improve the production of fatty acid-derived biochemicals in S. cerevisiae.', u'Background.  Anthropological and genetic data agree in indicating the African continent as the main place of origin for modern human. However, it is unclear whether early modern humans left Africa through a single, major process, dispersing simultaneously over Asia and Europe, or in two main waves, first through the Arab peninsula into Southern Asia and Oceania, and later through a Northern route crossing the Levant. Results. Here we show that accurate genomic estimates of the divergence times between European and African populations are more recent than those between Australo-Melanesia and Africa, and incompatible with the effects of a single dispersal. This difference cannot possibly be accounted for by the effects of hybridization with archaic human forms in Australo-Melanesia. Furthermore, in several populations of Asia we found evidence for relatively recent genetic admixture events, which could have obscured the signatures of the earliest processes. Conclusions. We conclude that the hypothesis of a single major human dispersal from Africa appears hardly compatible with the observed historical and geographical patterns of genome diversity, and that Australo-Melanesian populations seem still to retain a genomic signature of a more ancient divergence from Africa', u'The classic finding in both flowering plants and mammals that hybrid lethality often depends on parent of origin effects suggests that divergence in the underlying loci might be an important source of hybrid incompatibilities between species. In flowering plants, there is now good evidence from diverse taxa that seed lethality arising from interploidy crosses is often caused by endosperm defects associated with deregulated imprinted genes. A similar seed lethality phenotype occurs in many crosses between closely related diploid species, but the genetic basis of this form of early-acting F1 postzygotic reproductive isolation is largely unknown. Here, we show that F1 hybrid seed lethality is an exceptionally strong isolating barrier between two closely related Mimulus species, M. guttatus and M. tilingii, with reciprocal crosses producing less than 1% viable seeds. Using a powerful crossing design and high-resolution genetic mapping, we identify both maternally- and paternally-derived loci that contribute to hybrid seed incompatibility. Strikingly, these two sets of loci are largely non-overlapping, providing strong evidence that genes with parent of origin effects are the primary driver of F1 hybrid seed lethality between M. guttatus and M. tilingii. We find a highly polygenic basis for both parental components of hybrid seed lethality suggesting that multiple incompatibility loci have accumulated to cause strong postzygotic isolation between these closely related species. Our genetic mapping experiment also reveals hybrid transmission ratio distortion and chromosomal differentiation, two additional correlates of functional and genomic divergence between species.', u'In a long-term evolution experiment with Escherichia coli, bacteria in one of twelve populations evolved the ability to consume citrate, a previously unexploited resource in a glucose-limited medium. This innovation led to the frequency-dependent coexistence of citrate-consuming (Cit+) and non-consuming (Cit\u2013) ecotypes, with Cit\u2013 bacteria persisting on the exogenously supplied glucose as well as other carbon molecules released by the Cit+ bacteria. After more than 10,000 generations of coexistence, however, the Cit\u2013 lineage went extinct; cells with the Cit\u2013 phenotype dropped to levels below detection, and the Cit\u2013 clade could not be detected by molecular assays based on its unique genotype. We hypothesized that this extinction event was a deterministic outcome of evolutionary change within the population, specifically the appearance of a more-fit Cit+ ecotype that competitively excluded the Cit\u2013 ecotype.  We tested this hypothesis by re-evolving the population from one frozen sample taken just prior to the extinction and from another sample taken several thousand generations earlier, in each case for 500 generations and with 20-fold replication. To our surprise, the Cit\u2013 type did not go extinct in any of these replays, and Cit\u2013 cells also persisted in a single replicate that was propagated for 3,000 generations. Even more unexpectedly, we showed that the Cit\u2013 ecotype could reinvade the Cit+ population after its extinction. Taken together, these results indicate that the extinction of the Cit\u2013 ecotype was not a deterministic outcome driven by competitive exclusion by the Cit+ ecotype.  The extinction also cannot be explained by demographic stochasticity, as the population size of the Cit\u2013 ecotype should have been many thousands of cells even during the daily transfer events. Instead, we infer that the extinction must have been caused by a rare chance event in which some aspect of the experimental conditions was inadvertently perturbed.', u'Engineered RNAs have become integral components of the synthetic biology and bioengineering toolbox for controlling gene expression. We recently expanded this toolbox by creating small transcription activating RNAs (STARs) that act by disrupting the formation of a target transcriptional terminator hairpin placed upstream of a gene. While STARs are a promising addition to the repertoire of RNA regulators, much work remains to be done to optimize the fold activation of these systems. Here we apply rational RNA engineering strategies to improve the fold activation of two STAR regulators. We demonstrate that a combination of promoter strength tuning and multiple RNA stabilization strategies can improve fold activation from 5.4-fold to 13.4-fold for a STAR regulator derived from the pbuE riboswitch terminator. We then validate the generality of our approach and show that these same strategies improve fold activation from 2.1-fold to 14.6-fold for an unrelated STAR regulator. We also establish that the optimizations preserve the orthogonality of these STARs between themselves and a set of antisense RNA transcriptional repressors, enabling these optimized STARs to be used in more sophisticated circuits. These optimization strategies open the door for creating a generation of additional STARs to use in a broad array of biotechnologies.', u'Codon usage bias (CUB) is pervasive in genomes. Studying its patterns and causes is fundamental for understanding genome evolution. Rapidly emerging large-scale RNA and DNA sequences make studying CUB in many species feasible. Existing software however is limited in incorporating the new data resources. Therefore, I release the software CUA which can compute all popular CUB metrics, including CAI, tAI, Fop, ENC. More importantly, CUA allows users to incorporate user-specific data, such as tRNA abundance and highly expressed genes from considered tissues; this flexibility enables computing CUB metrics for any species with improved accuracy. In sum, CUA eases codon usage studies and establishes a platform for incorporating new metrics in future. CUA is available at http://search.cpan.org/dist/Bio-CUA/ with help documentation and tutorial.', u'Motivation:\nThere are many tools for variant calling and effect prediction, but little to tie together large sample groups. Aggregating, sorting, and summarizing variants and effects across a cohort is often done with ad hoc scripts that must be re-written for every new project. In response, we have written MuCor, a tool to gather variants from a variety of input formats (including multiple files per sample), perform database lookups and frequency calculations, and write many report types. In addition to use in large studies with numerous samples, MuCor can also be employed to directly compare variant calls from the same sample across two or more platforms, parameters, or pipelines. A companion utility, DepthGauge, measures coverage at regions of interest to increase confidence in calls.\n\nAvailability: \nSource code is freely available at https://github.com/blachlylab\n\nContact: james.blachly@osumc.edu\n\nSupplementary data: Supplementary data, including detailed documentation, are available online.', u'Meiotic recombination initiated by programmed double-strand breaks (DSBs) yields two types of interhomolog recombination products, crossovers and noncrossovers, but what determines whether a DSB will yield a crossover or noncrossover is not understood. In this study we analyze the influence of sex and chromosomal location on mammalian recombination outcomes by constructing fine-scale recombination maps in both males and females at two mouse hotspots located in different regions of the same chromosome. These include the most comprehensive maps of recombination hotspots in oocytes to date. One hotspot, located centrally on chromosome 1, behaved similarly in male and female meiosis: crossovers and noncrossovers formed at comparable levels and ratios in both sexes. In contrast, at a distal hotspot crossovers were recovered only in males even though noncrossovers were obtained at similar frequencies in both sexes. These findings reveal an example of extreme sex-specific bias in recombination outcome. We further find that estimates of relative DSB levels are surprisingly poor predictors of relative crossover frequencies between hotspots in males. Our results demonstrate that the outcome of mammalian meiotic recombination can be biased, that this bias can vary depending on location and cellular context, and that DSB frequency is not the only determinant of crossover frequency.', u'Resting-state functional connectivity is a promising biomarker for Alzheimer\u2019s disease. However, previous resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging studies in Alzheimer\u2019s disease and mild cognitive impairment (MCI) have shown limited reproducibility as they have had small sample sizes and substantial variation in study protocol. We sought to identify functional brain networks and connections that could consistently discriminate normal aging from MCI despite variations in scanner manufacturer, imaging protocol, and diagnostic procedure. We therefore pooled four independent datasets, including 112 healthy controls and 143 patients with MCI, systematically testing multiple brain connections for consistent differences. The largest effects associated with MCI involved the ventromedial and dorsomedial prefrontal cortex, striatum, and middle temporal lobe. Compared with controls, patients with MCI exhibited significantly decreased connectivity within the frontal lobe, between frontal and temporal areas, and between regions of the cortico-striatal-thalamic loop. Despite the heterogeneity of methods among the four datasets, we identified robust MCI-related connectivity changes with small to medium effect sizes and sample size estimates recommending a minimum of 150 to 400 total subjects to achieve adequate statistical power. If our findings can be replicated and associated with other established biomarkers of Alzheimer\u2019s disease (e.g. amyloid and tau quantification), then these functional connections may be promising candidate biomarkers for Alzheimer\u2019s disease.', u'How different organs in the body sense growth perturbations in distant tissues to coordinate their size during development is poorly understood. Here, we mutated an invertebrate orphan relaxin receptor, the Drosophila Lgr3, and found body asymmetries similar to those found in insulin/relaxin-like peptide 8 (dilp8) mutants, which fail to coordinate growth with developmental timing. Indeed, mutation or RNAi against Lgr3 suppresses the delay in pupariation induced by imaginal disc growth perturbation or ectopic Dilp8 expression. By fluorescently-tagging the endogenous Lgr3 protein and performing CNS-specific RNAi, we find that Lgr3 is expressed and required in a novel subset of CNS neurons to transmit the peripheral tissue stress signal, Dilp8, to the neuroendocrine centers controlling developmental timing. Our work sheds new light on the function and evolution of relaxin receptors and reveals a novel neuroendocrine circuit responsive to growth aberrations.', u'The rapidly expanding body of available genomic and protein structural data provides a rich resource for understanding protein dynamics with biomolecular simulation. While computational infrastructure has grown rapidly, simulations on an omics scale are not yet widespread, primarily because software infrastructure to enable simulations at this scale has not kept pace. It should now be possible to study protein dynamics across entire (super)families, exploiting both available structural biology data and conformational similarities across homologous proteins. Here, we present a new tool for enabling high-throughput simulation in the genomics era. Ensembler takes any set of sequences - from a single sequence to an entire superfamily - and shepherds them through various stages of modeling and refinement to produce simulation-ready structures. This includes comparative modeling to all relevant PDB structures (which may span multiple conformational states of interest), reconstruction of missing loops, addition of missing atoms, culling of nearly identical structures, assignment of appropriate protonation states, solvation in explicit solvent, and refinement and filtering with molecular simulation to ensure stable simulation.  The output of this pipeline is an ensemble of structures ready for subsequent molecular simulations using computer clusters, supercomputers, or distributed computing projects like Folding@home. Ensembler thus automates much of the time-consuming process of preparing protein models suitable for simulation, while allowing scalability up to entire superfamilies. A particular advantage of this approach can be found in the construction of kinetic models of conformational dynamics - such as Markov state models (MSMs) - which benefit from a diverse array of initial configurations that span the accessible conformational states to aid sampling. We demonstrate the power of this approach by constructing models for all catalytic domains in the human tyrosine kinase family, using all available kinase catalytic domain structures from any organism as structural templates.\n\nEnsembler is free and open source software licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPL) v2. It is compatible with Linux and OS X. The latest release can be installed via the conda package manager, and the latest source can be downloaded from https://github.com/choderalab/ensembler.', u'Next-generation sequencing projects commonly commence by aligning reads to a reference genome assembly. While improvements in alignment algorithms and computational hardware have greatly enhanced the efficiency and accuracy of alignments, a significant percentage of reads often remain unmapped. We generated de novo assemblies of unmapped reads from the DNA and RNA sequencing of the Bos taurus reference individual and identified the closest matching sequence to each contig by alignment to the NCBI non-redundant nucleotide database using BLAST. As expected, many of these contigs represent vertebrate sequence that is absent, incomplete, or misassembled in the UMD3.1 reference assembly. However, numerous additional contigs represent invertebrate species. Most prominent were several species of Spirurid nematodes and a blood-borne parasite, Babesia bigemina. These species are not known to infect taurine cattle and the reference animal appears to have been host to unsequenced sister species. We demonstrate the importance of exploring unmapped reads to ascertain sequences that are either absent or misassembled in the reference assembly and for detecting sequences indicative of infectious or symbiotic organisms.', u'British population history has been shaped by a series of immigrations and internal movements, including the early Anglo-Saxon migrations following the breakdown of the Roman administration after 410CE. It remains an open question how these events affected the genetic composition of the current British population. Here, we present whole-genome sequences generated from ten ancient individuals found in archaeological excavations close to Cambridge in the East of England, ranging from 2,300 until 1,200 years before present (Iron Age to Anglo-Saxon period). We use present-day genetic data to characterize the relationship of these ancient individuals to contemporary British and other European populations. By analyzing the distribution of shared rare variants across ancient and modern individuals, we find that today\u2019s British are more similar to the Iron Age individuals than to most of the Anglo-Saxon individuals, and estimate that the contemporary East English population derives 30% of its ancestry from Anglo-Saxon migrations, with a lower fraction in Wales and Scotland. We gain further insight with a new method, rarecoal, which fits a demographic model to the distribution of shared rare variants across a large number of samples, enabling fine scale analysis of subtle genetic differences and yielding explicit estimates of population sizes and split times. Using rarecoal we find that the ancestors of the Anglo-Saxon samples are closest to modern Danish and Dutch populations, while the Iron Age samples share ancestors with multiple Northern European populations including Britain.', u'Genomic selection is an accurate and efficient method of estimating genetic merits by using high-density genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs).In this study, we investigate an approach to increase the efficiency of genomic prediction by using genome-wide markers. The approach is a feature selection based on genomic best linear unbiased prediction (GBLUP),which is a statistical method used to predict breeding values using SNPs for selection in animal and plant breeding. The objective of this study is the choice of kinship matrix for genomic best linear unbiased prediction (GBLUP).The G-matrix is using the information of genome-wide dense markers. We compare three kinds of kinships based on different combinations of centring and scaling of marker genotypes.And find a suitable kinship approach that adjusts for the resource population of Chinese Simmental beef cattle.Single nucleotide polymorphism (SNPs) can be used to estimate kinship matrix and individual inbreeding coefficients more accurately. So in our research a genomic relationship matrix was developed for 1059 Chinese Simmental beef cattle using 640000 single nucleotide polymorphisms and breeding values were estimated using phenotypes about Carcass weight and Sirloin weight. The number of SNPs needed to accurately estimate a genomic relationship matrix was evaluated in this population. Another aim of this study was to optimize the selection of markers and determine the required number of SNPs for estimation of kinship in the Chinese Simmental beef cattle.\nWe find that the feature selection of GBLUP using Xu\u2019s and the Astle and Balding\u2019s kinships model performed similarly well, and were the best-performing methods in our study. Inbreeding and kinship matrix can be estimated with high accuracy using \u226512,000s in Chinese Simmental beef cattle.', u'The emergence of third generation sequencing technologies has brought near perfect de-novo genome assembly within reach. This clears the way towards reference-free detection of genomic variations.\nIn this paper, we introduce a novel concept for aligning whole-genomes which allows the alignment of multiple genomes. Alignments are constructed in a recursive manner, in which alignment decisions are statistically supported. Computational performance is achieved by splitting an initial indexing data structure into a multitude of smaller indices. We show that our method can be used to detect high resolution structural variations between two human genomes, and that it can be used to obtain a high quality multiple genome alignment of at least nineteen Mycobacterium tuberculosis genomes. An implementation of the outlined algorithm called REVEAL is available on: https://github.com/jasperlinthorst/REVEAL', u'Cattle diverged during the Pleistocene into two subspecies, one in temperate and one in tropical environments. Here we have used next generation sequencing of the indicine subspecies of cattle and compared it to the taurine subspecies. Although 23.8 million single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) were found, the number of fixed amino acid substitutions between the taurine and indicine subspecies was low and consistent with the Haldane predictions for adaptive selection rather than with Neutral Theory. We noted 33 regions of enhanced divergence of nonsynonymous SNP between the subspecies, which included an increased rate of deleterious variants. Signals of positive selection were found for genes associated with immunity, including the Bovine Major Histocompatibility Complex, which also showed an increased rate of deleterious amino acid variants. The genes important in sensing the environment, especially the olfactory system, showed a network wide signal of positive selection.', u'The Eph receptors and their cognate ephrin ligands play key roles in many aspects of nervous system development. These interactions typically occur within an individual tissue type, serving either to guide axons to their terminal targets or to define boundaries between the rhombomeres of the hindbrain. We have identified a novel role for the Caenorhabditis elegans ephrin EFN-4 in promoting primary neurite outgrowth in AIY interneurons and D-class motor neurons. Rescue experiments reveal that EFN-4 functions non-cell autonomously in the epidermis to promote primary neurite outgrowth. We also find that EFN-4 plays a role in promoting ectopic axon branching in a C. elegans model of X-linked Kallmann syndrome. In this context, EFN-4 functions non-cell autonomously in the body wall muscle, and in parallel with HS biosynthesis genes and HSPG core proteins, which function cell autonomously in the AIY neurons. This is the first report of an epidermal ephrin providing a developmental cue to the nervous system.', u'Objective: To better characterize the genetic factors, implicated in oxidative pathway, determining susceptibility to inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), we assessed for the first time the potential role of NOS2A, HIF1A and NFKB1 polymorphisms on the risk of developing IBD in Moroccan population. \n Methods: The distribution of (TAAA)n_rs12720460 and (CCTTT)n_rs3833912 NOS2A microsatellite repeats, HIF-1A_rs11549467 and NFKB1\u201394ins/delATTG_rs28362491 was analyzed in 507 subjects grouped in 199 IBD and 308 healthy controls. Genotyping was performed with polymerase chain reaction-fluorescent method and the TaqMan\xae allelic discrimination technology.\nResults: The allele and genotype frequencies of HIF1A_rs11549467, NFKB1_rs28362491 and NOS2A_(TAAA)n did not differ significantly between patients and controls. Analysis of NOS2A_(CCTTT)n markers evidenced differences between patients and healthy controls. A preferential presence of the (CCTTT)8 (P=0.02; OR=1.71, 95%CI=1.07\u20132.74), (CCTTT)14 (P=0.02; OR=1.71, 95%CI=1.06\u20132.76) alleles in IBD, (CCTTT)8 (P=0.008; OR=1.95, 95%CI=1.17\u20133.23) in CD and (CCTTT)7 (P=0.009; OR = 7.61, 95%CI=1.25-46.08), (CCTTT)11 (P=0.05 ; OR= 0.51, 95%CI=0.25-1.01), (CCTTT)14 (P=0.02 ; OR= 2.05, 95%CI=1.07-3.94), (CCTTT)15 (P=0.01 ; OR= 2.25, 95%CI=1.16-4.35) repeats in UC patients indicated its possible association with higher disease risk which need to be confirmed in a larger sample size. \nConclusion: Our results suggest that the NOS2A_(CCTTT)n gene variations may influence IBD susceptibility in the Moroccan population.', u"Evolution drives changes in a protein's sequence over time. The extent to which these changes in sequence lead to shifts in the underlying preference for each amino acid at each site is an important question with implications for comparative sequence-analysis methods such as molecular phylogenetics. To quantify the extent that site-specific amino-acid preferences shift during evolution, we performed deep mutational scanning on two homologs of human influenza nucleoprotein with 94% amino-acid identity. We found that only a modest fraction of sites exhibited shifts in amino-acid preferences that exceeded the noise in our experiments. Furthermore, even among sites that did exhibit detectable shifts, the magnitude tended to be small relative to differences between non-homologous proteins. Given the limited change in amino-acid preferences between these close homologs, we tested whether our measurements could inform site-specific substitution models that describe the evolution of nucleoproteins from more diverse influenza viruses. We found that site-specific evolutionary models informed by our experiments greatly outperformed non-site-specific alternatives in fitting phylogenies of nucleoproteins from human, swine, equine, and avian influenza. Combining the experimental data from both homologs improved phylogenetic fit, partly because measurements in multiple genetic contexts better captured the evolutionary average of the amino-acid preferences for sites with shifting preferences. Our results show that site-specific amino-acid preferences are sufficiently conserved that measuring mutational effects in one protein provides information that can improve quantitative evolutionary modeling of nearby homologs.", u'Natural environments are never truly constant, but the evolutionary implications of temporally varying selection pressures remain poorly understood. Here we investigate how the fate of a new mutation in a variable environment depends on the dynamics of environmental fluctuations and on the selective pressures in each condition. We find that even when a mutation experiences many environmental epochs before fixing or going extinct, its fate is not necessarily determined by its time-averaged selective effect. Instead, environmental variability reduces the efficiency of selection across a broad parameter regime, rendering selection unable to distinguish between mutations that are substantially beneficial and substantially deleterious on average. Temporal fluctuations can also dramatically increase fixation probabilities, often making the details of these fluctuations more important than the average selection pressures acting on each new mutation. For example, mutations that result in a tradeoff between conditions but are strongly deleterious on average can nevertheless be more likely to fix than mutations that are always neutral or beneficial. These effects can have important implications for patterns of molecular evolution in variable environments, and they suggest that it may often be difficult for populations to maintain specialist traits, even when their loss leads to a decline in time-averaged fitness.', u'Pathogens and the diseases they cause have been among the most important selective forces experienced by humans during their evolutionary history. Although adaptive alleles generally arise by mutation, introgression can also be a valuable source of beneficial alleles. Archaic humans, who lived in Europe and Western Asia for over 200,000 years, were likely well-adapted to the environment and its local pathogens, and it is therefore conceivable that modern humans entering Europe and Western Asia who admixed with them obtained a substantial immune advantage from the introgression of archaic alleles.\nHere we document a cluster of three toll-like receptors (TLR6-TLR1-TLR10) in modern humans that carries three distinct archaic haplotypes, indicating repeated introgression from archaic humans. Two of these haplotypes are most similar to Neandertal genome, while the third haplotype is most similar to the Denisovan genome. The toll-like receptors are key components of innate immunity and provide an important first line of immune defense against bacteria, fungi and parasites. The unusually high allele frequencies and unexpected levels of population differentiation indicate that there has been local positive selection on multiple haplotypes at this locus. We show that the introgressed alleles have clear functional effects in modern humans; archaic-like alleles underlie differences in the expression of the TLR genes and are associated with reduced microbial resistance and increased allergic disease in large cohorts. This provides strong evidence for recurrent adaptive introgression at the TLR6-TLR1-TLR10 locus, resulting in differences in disease phenotypes in modern\nhumans.', u'A dominant approach to genetic association studies is to perform univariate tests between genotype-phenotype pairs. However, analysing related traits together increases statistical power, and certain complex associations become detectable only when several variants are tested jointly. Currently, modest sample sizes of individual cohorts and restricted availability of individual-level genotype-phenotype data across the cohorts limit conducting multivariate tests.\n\nWe introduce metaCCA, a computational framework for summary statistics-based analysis of a single or multiple studies that allows multivariate representation of both genotype and phenotype. It extends the statistical technique of canonical correlation analysis to the setting where original individual-level records are not available, and employs a covariance shrinkage algorithm to achieve robustness.\n\nMultivariate meta-analysis of two Finnish studies of nuclear magnetic resonance metabolomics by metaCCA, using standard univariate output from the program SNPTEST, shows an excellent agreement with the pooled individual-level analysis of original data. Motivated by strong multivariate signals in the lipid genes tested, we envision that multivariate association testing using metaCCA has a great potential to provide novel insights from already published summary statistics from high-throughput phenotyping technologies.', u'Advances in our ability to generate genome sequence data have increased the need for fast, effective approaches to assessing the functional significance of genetic variation. Traditionally, this has been done by identifying single nucleotide polymorphisms within populations, and calculating derived statistics to prioritize candidates, such as dN/dS. However, these methods commonly ignore the differential selective pressure acting at different positions within a given protein sequence and the effect of insertions and deletions (indels). We present a profile-based method for predicting whether a protein sequence variant is likely to have functionally diverged from close relatives, which takes into account differences in residue conservation and indel rates within a sequence. We assess the performance of the method, and apply it to the identification of functionally significant genetic variation between bacterial genomes. We demonstrate that this method is a highly sensitive measure of functional potential, which can improve our understanding of the evolution of proteins and organisms. An implementation can be found at https://github.com/UCanCompBio/deltaBS.', u'Plant communities provide floral resource-landscapes for pollinators. Yet, it is insufficiently understood how these landscapes shape pollinator-mediated interactions among multiple plant species. Here, we study how pollinators and the seed set of plants respond to the distribution of a floral resource (nectar sugar) in space and across plant species, inflorescences and flowering phenologies. In a global biodiversity hotspot, we quantified floral resource-landscapes on 27 sites of 4 ha comprising 127,993 shrubs of 19 species. Visitation rates of key bird pollinators strongly depended on the phenology of site-scale resource amounts. Seed set of focal plants increased with resources of conspecific neighbours and with site-scale resources, notably with heterospecific resources of lower quality (less sugar per inflorescence). Floral resources are thus a common currency determining how multiple plant species interact via pollinators. These interactions may alter conditions for species coexistence in plant communities and cause community-level Allee effects that promote extinction cascades.', u'The site frequency spectrum (SFS) and other genetic summary statistics are at the heart of many population genetics studies. Previous studies have shown that human populations had undergone a recent epoch of fast growth in effective population size. These studies assumed that growth is exponential, and the ensuing models leave unexplained excess amount of extremely rare variants. This suggests that human populations might have experienced a recent growth with speed faster than exponential. Recent studies have introduced a generalized growth model where the growth speed can be faster or slower than exponential. However, only simulation approaches were available for obtaining summary statistics under such models. In this study, we provide expressions to accurately and efficiently evaluate the SFS and other summary statistics under generalized models, which we further implement in a publicly available software. Investigating the power to infer deviation of growth from being exponential, we observed that decent sample sizes facilitate accurate inference, e.g. a sample of 3000 individuals with the amount of data expected from exome sequencing allows observing and accurately estimating growth with speed deviating by 10% or more from that of exponential. Applying our inference framework to data from the NHLBI Exome Sequencing Project, we found that a model with a generalized growth epoch fits the observed SFS significantly better than the equivalent model with exponential growth (p-value = 3.85 \xd7 10-6). The estimated growth speed significantly deviates from exponential (p-value << 10-12), with the best-fit estimate being of growth speed 12% faster than exponential.', u'The essential biological properties of proteins - folding, biochemical activities, and the capacity to adapt - arise from the global pattern of interactions between amino acid residues.  The statistical coupling analysis (SCA) is an approach to defining this pattern that involves the study of amino acid coevolution in an ensemble of sequences comprising a protein family.  This approach indicates a functional architecture within proteins in which the basic units are coupled networks of amino acids termed sectors.  This evolution-based decomposition has potential for new understandings of the structural basis for protein function, but requires broad further testing by the scientific community.  To facilitate this, we present here the principles and practice of the SCA and introduce new methods for sector analysis in a python-based software package.  We show that the pattern of amino acid interactions within sectors is linked to the divergence of functional lineages in a multiple sequence alignment - a model for how sector properties might be differentially tuned in members of a protein family.  This work provides new tools for understanding the structural basis for protein function and for generally testing the concept of sectors as the principal functional units of proteins.', u"Populations of species in ecosystems are often constrained by availability of resources within their environment. In effect this means that a growth of one population needs to be balanced by comparable reduction in populations of others. In neutral models of biodiversity all populations are assumed to change incrementally due to stochastic births and deaths of individuals. Here we propose and model another redistribution mechanism driven by abrupt and severe collapses of the entire population of a single species freeing up resources for the remaining ones.  This mechanism may be relevant e.g. for communities of bacteria, with strain-specific collapses caused e.g. by invading bacteriophages, or for other ecosystems where infectious diseases play an important role.   \n\n  The emergent dynamics of our system is cyclic ``diversity waves'' triggered by collapses of globally dominating populations. The population diversity peaks at the beginning of each wave and exponentially decreases afterwards.  Species abundances are characterized by a bimodal time-aggregated distribution with the lower peak formed by populations of recently collapsed or newly introduced species, while the upper peak  - species that has not yet collapsed in the current wave. In most waves both upper and lower peaks are composed of several smaller peaks.  This self-organized hierarchical peak structure has a long-term memory transmitted across several waves. It gives rise to a scale-free tail of the time-aggregated population distribution with a universal exponent of 1.7.   We show that diversity wave dynamics is robust with respect to variations in the rules of our model such as diffusion between multiple environments, species-specific growth and extinction rates,  and bet-hedging strategies.", u'Cell identity (or cell state) is established via gene expression programs, represented by ???associated genes??? with dynamic expression across cell identities. Here we integrate RNA-seq data from 40 tissues and cell types from human, chimpanzee, bonobo, and mouse to investigate the conservation and differentiation of cell states. We employ a statistical tool, ???Transcriptome Overlap Measure??? (TROM) to first identify cell-state-associated genes, both protein-coding and non-coding. Next, we use TROM to comprehensively map the cell states within each species and also between species based on the cell-state-associated genes. The within-species mapping measures which cell states are similar to each other, allowing us to construct a human cell differentiation tree that recovers both known and novel lineage relationships between cell states. Moreover, the between-species mapping summarizes the conservation of cell states across the four species. Based on these results, we identify conserved associated genes for different cell states and annotate their biological functions. Interestingly, we find that neural and testis tissues exhibit distinct evolutionary signatures in which neural tissues are much less enriched in conserved associated genes than testis. In addition, our mapping demonstrate that besides protein-coding genes, long non-coding RNAs serve well as associated genes to indicate cell states. We further infer the biological functions of those non-coding associated genes based on their co-expressed protein-coding associated genes. Overall, we provide a catalog of conserved and species-specific associated genes that identifies candidates for downstream experimental studies of the roles of these candidates in controlling cell identity.', u'Previous research reported that Papua New Guineans (PNG) and Australians contain introgressions from Denisovans. Here we present a genome-wide analysis of Denisovan introgressions in PNG and Australians. We firstly developed a two-phase method to detect Denisovan introgressions from whole-genome sequencing data. This method has relatively high detection power (79.74%) and low false positive rate (2.44%) based on simulations. Using this method, we identified 1.34 Gb of Denisovan introgressions from sixteen PNG and four Australian genomes, in which we identified 38,877 Denisovan introgressive alleles (DIAs). We found that 78 Denisovan introgressions were under positive selection. Genes located in the 78 introgressions are related to evolutionarily important functions, such as spermatogenesis, fertilization, cold acclimation, circadian rhythm, development of brain, neural tube, face, and olfactory pit, immunity, etc. We also found that 121 DIAs are missense. Genes harboring the 121 missense DIAs are also related to evolutionarily important functions, such as female pregnancy, development of face, lung, heart, skin, nervous system, and male gonad, visual and smell perception, response to heat, pain, hypoxia, and UV, lipid transport, metabolism, blood coagulation, wound healing, aging, etc. Taken together, this study suggests that Denisovan introgressions in PNG and Australians are evolutionarily important, and may help PNG and Australians in local adaptation. In this study, we also proposed a method that could efficiently identify archaic hominin introgressions in modern non-African genomes.', u'Background\nCopy number variation (CNV) is a common feature of eukaryotic genomes, and a growing body of evidence suggests that genes affected by CNV are enriched in processes that are associated with environmental responses. Here we use next generation sequence (NGS) data to detect copy-number variable regions (CNVRs) within the Malus x domestica genome, as well as to examine their distribution and impact.\nMethods\nCNVRs were detected using NGS data derived from 30 accessions of M. x domestica analysed using the read-depth method, as implemented in the CNVrd2 software. To improve the reliability of our results, we developed a quality control and analysis procedure that involved checking for organelle DNA, not repeat masking, and the determination of CNVR identity using a permutation testing procedure.\nResults\nOverall, we identified 876 CNVRs, which spanned 3.5% of the apple genome. To verify that detected CNVRs were not artefacts, we analysed the B- allele-frequencies (BAF) within a SNP array dataset derived from a screening of 185 individual apple accessions and found the CNVRs were enriched for SNPs having aberrant BAFs (P < 1e-13, Fisher?s Exact test). Putative CNVRs overlapped 845 gene models and were enriched for resistance (R) genes (P < 1e-22, Fisher?s exact test). Of note is a cluster of resistance genes on chromosome 2 near a region containing multiple major gene loci conferring resistance to apple scab.\nConclusion\nWe present the first analysis and catalogue of CNVRs in the M. x domestica genome. The enrichment of the CNVRs with R genes and their overlap with gene loci of agricultural significance draw attention to a form of unexplored genetic variation in apple. This research will underpin further investigation of the role that CNV plays within the apple genome.', u'Monitoring the progress of DNA molecules through a membrane pore has been postulated as a method for sequencing DNA for several decades. Recently, a nanopore-based sequencing instrument, the Oxford Nanopore MinION, has become available that we used for sequencing the S. cerevisiae genome. To make use of these data, we developed a novel open-source hybrid error correction algorithm Nanocorr (https://github.com/jgurtowski/nanocorr) specifically for Oxford Nanopore reads, as existing packages were incapable of assembling the long read lengths (5-50kbp) at such high error rate (between ~5 and 40% error). With this new method we were able to perform a hybrid error correction of the nanopore reads using complementary MiSeq data and produce a de novo assembly that is highly contiguous and accurate: the contig N50 length is more than ten-times greater than an Illumina-only assembly (678kb versus 59.9kbp), and has greater than 99.88% consensus identity when compared to the reference. Furthermore, the assembly with the long nanopore reads presents a much more complete representation of the features of the genome and correctly assembles gene cassettes, rRNAs, transposable elements, and other genomic features that were almost entirely absent in the Illumina-only assembly.', u'Accurate estimation of the contrast transfer function (CTF) is critical for a near-atomic resolution cryo electron microscopy (cryoEM) reconstruction. Here, I present a GPU-accelerated computer program, Gctf, for accurate and robust, real-time CTF determination. Similar to alternative programs, the main target of Gctf is to maximize the cross-correlation of a simulated CTF with the power spectra of observed micrographs after background reduction. However, novel approaches in Gctf improve both speed and accuracy. In addition to GPU acceleration, a fast ?1-dimensional search plus 2-dimensional refinement (1S2R)? procedure significantly speeds up Gctf. Based on the global CTF determination, the local defocus for each particle and for single frames of movies is accurately refined, which improves CTF parameters of all particles for subsequent image processing. Novel diagnosis method using equiphase averaging(EFA) and self-consistency verification procedures have also been implemented in the program for practical use, especially for aims of near-atomic reconstruction. Gctf is an independent program and the outputs can be easily imported into other cryoEM software such as Relion and Frealign. The results from several representative datasets are shown and discussed in this paper.', u'Exogenous cannabinoids can affect behaviorally relevant neuronal oscillations, but there is little evidence that endogenous cannabinoids (endocannabinoids, eCBs) can affect them, although it is unknown whether eCBs were generated during oscillations investigated in previous studies.  In rat hippocampal slices, muscarinic receptor (mAChR) agonists stimulate the occurrence of persistent, rhythmic inhibitory post-synaptic currents (IPSC) activity and mobilize eCBs.  We tested the hypothesis that mAChR-induced IPSCs would be modulated by concomitantly produced eCBs.  With ionotropic glutamate receptors inhibited, mAChR agonist application triggered eCB-sensitive IPSCs that were enhanced in amplitude and frequency when a cannabinoid receptor antagonist was also present.  There was also a highly significant increase in IPSC spectral power in the theta-frequency range.  The data show that eCBs released by mAChRs modulate rhythmic IPSCs, and suggest that eCBs are candidate regulators of neuronal oscillations associated with eCB production in vivo.', u'Neuronal encoding and collective network activity depend on the precise mechanism for generating action potentials. A dynamic switch in this mechanism could greatly expand the functional repertoire of neurons and circuits. Here we show that changes in neuronal biophysics control a complex, yet fundamental, sequence of dynamic transitions in neuronal excitability in which neurons switch from integrators to resonators near the spike threshold, from simple voltage dynamics to the bistable co-existence of action potentials and quiescence, and from continuous class-I to discontinuous class-II firing rate encoding. Using multiple bifurcation theory, we prove that this transition sequence is universal in conductance-based neurons. Using dynamic-clamp and pharmacology, we show experimentally that an increase in leak conductance or application of the inhibitory agonist GABA can dynamically induce these transitions in hippocampal and brainstem neurons. Our results imply that synaptic activity can flexibly control resonance, excitability and bistability of neurons. In simulated neuronal networks, we show that such synaptically induced transitions provide a mechanism for the dynamic gating of input signals and the targeted synchronization of sub-networks with a tunable number of neurons.', u'Osteosarcoma is the most common primary bone tumor in pediatric and young adult patients. Successful treatment of osteosarcomas requires a combination of surgical resection and systemic chemotherapy, both neoadjuvant (prior to surgery) and adjuvant (after surgery). The degree of necrosis following neoadjuvant chemotherapy correlates with the subsequent probability of disease-free survival. Tumors with less than 10% of viable cells after treatment represent patients with a more favorable prognosis. However, being able to predict early, such as at the time of the pre-treatment tumor biopsy, how the patient will respond to the standard chemotherapy would provide an opportunity for more personalized patient care. Patients with unfavorable predictions could be studied in a protocol, rather than a standard setting, towards improving therapeutic success. The onset of necrotic cells in osteosarcomas treated with chemotherapeutic agents is a measure of tumor sensitivity to the drugs. We hypothesize that the remaining viable cells, i.e., cells that have not responded to the treatment, are chemoresistant, and that the pathological characteristics of these chemoresistant tumor cells within the osteosarcoma pre-treatment biopsy can predict tumor response to the standard-of-care chemotherapeutic treatment. This hypothesis can be tested by comparing patient histopathology samples before, as well as after treatment to identify both morphological and immunochemical cellular features that are characteristic of chemoresistant cells, i.e., cells that survived treatment. Consequently, using computational simulations of dynamic changes in tumor pathology under the simulated standard of care chemotherapeutic treatment, one can couple the pre- and post-treatment morphological and spatial patterns of chemoresistant cells, and correlate them with patient clinical diagnoses. This procedure, that we named \u2018Virtual Clinical Trials\u2019, can serve as a potential predictive biomarker providing a novel value added decision support tool for oncologists.', u'Protein tertiary structure prediction (PSP) is one of the most challenging problems in bioinformatics. Different methods have been introduced to solve this problem so far, but PSP is computationally intensive and belongs to the NP-hard class. One of the best solutions to accelerate PSP is the use of a massively parallel processing architecture, such graphical processing unit (GPU), which is used to parallelize computational algorithms. In this paper, we have proposed a parallel architecture to accelerate PSP. A bio-inspired method, particle swarm optimization (PSO) has been used as the optimization method to solve PSP. We have also performed a comprehensive study on implementing different topologies of PSO on GPU to consider the acceleration rate. Our solution belongs to ab-initio category which is based on the dihedral angles and calculates the energy-levels to predict the tertiary structure. Indeed, we have studied the search space of a protein to find the best pair of angles that gives the minimum free energy. A profile-level knowledge-based force field based on PSI-BLAST multiple sequence alignment has been applied as a fitness function to calculate the energy values. Different topologies and variations of PSO are considered here and the experimental results show that the speedup gain using GPU is about 34 times faster than CPU implementation of the algorithm with an acceptable precision. The energy values of predicted structures confirm the robustness of the algorithm.', u'The sequential changes occurring with cancer progression are now being harnessed with therapeutic intent. Yet, there is no understanding of the chemical thermodynamics of proteomic changes associated with cancer progression/ cancer stage. This manuscript reveals a strong correlation of a chemical thermodynamic measure (known as Gibbs free energy) of protein-protein interaction networks for several cancer types and 5-year overall survival and stage in patients with cancer. Earlier studies have linked degree entropy of signaling networks to patient survival data, but not with stage. It appears that Gibbs free energy is a more general metric and accounts better for the underlying energetic landscape of protein expression in cells, thus correlating with stage as well as survival. \n\nThis is an especially timely finding because of improved ability to obtain and analyze genomic/ proteomic information from individual patients. Yet, at least at present, only candidate gene imaging (FISH or immunohistochemistry) can be used for entropy computations. With continually expanding use of genomic information in clinical medicine, there is an ever-increasing need to understand the thermodynamics of protein-protein interaction networks.', u'Motivation: Protein-RNA interactions (PRIs) are essential for many biological processes, so understanding aspects of the sequence and structure in PRIs is important for understanding those processes. Due to the expensive and time-consuming processes required for experimental determination of complex protein-RNA structures, various computational methods have been developed to predict PRIs. However, most of these methods focus on predicting only RNA-binding regions in proteins or only protein-binding motifs in RNA. Methods for predicting entire residue-base contacts in PRIs have not yet achieved sufficient accuracy. Furthermore, some of these methods require 3D structures or homologous sequences, which are not available for all protein and RNA sequences.\nResults: We propose a prediction method for residue-base contacts between proteins and RNAs using only sequence information and structural information predicted from only sequences. The method can be applied to any protein-RNA pair, even when rich information such as 3D structure is not available. Residue-base contact prediction is formalized as an integer programming problem. We predict a residue-base contact map that maximizes a scoring function based on sequence-based features such as k-mer of sequences and predicted secondary structure. The scoring function is trained by a max-margin framework from known PRIs with 3D structures. To verify our method, we conducted several computational experiments. The results suggest that our method, which is based on only sequence information, is comparable with  RNA-binding residue prediction methods based on known binding data.', u'Hybridization of distinct materials into a single nanoplatform is relevant to advance material\u2019s properties for functional application such as biosensor platform. We report the synthesis and characterization of nanosheets of graphene oxide decorated with hybrid nanoparticles of silver-ruthenium bipyridine complex (Ag@[Ru(bpy)3]2+) core and chitosan shell. Hybrid nanoparticles were first obtained through a sequential wet-chemical approach using in situ reduction, electrostatic and coordination reaction. Oxygenated functional groups of graphene oxide and abundant amine groups of chitosan layer on the surface of hybrid nanoparticles allowed the functionalization reaction. Changes in intrinsic optical, chemical and structural properties of graphene oxide due to hybrid nanoparticles were studied in depth using spectroscopic techniques and an electron microscope. Electrodes modified with nanosheets of graphene oxide-hybrid nanoparticles retain the biocompatibility and displayed an amplified redox property suitable for a broad range of sensing studies.', u'While genome-wide significant associations generally explain only a small proportion of the narrow-sense heritability of complex disease (h2), recent work has shown that more heritability is explained by all genotyped SNPs (hg2). However, much of the heritability is still missing (hg2 < h2). For example, for schizophrenia, h2 is estimated at 0.7-0.8 but hg2 is estimated at ~0.3. Efforts at increasing coverage through accurately imputed variants have yielded only small increases in the heritability explained, and poorly imputed variants can lead to assay artifacts for case-control traits. We propose to estimate the heritability explained by a set of haplotype variants (haploSNPs) constructed directly from the study sample (hhap2). Our method constructs a set of haplotypes from phased genotypes by extending shared haplotypes subject to the 4-gamete test.  In a large schizophrenia data set (PGC2-SCZ), haploSNPs with MAF > 0.1% explained substantially more phenotypic variance (hhap2 = 0.64 (S.E. 0.084)) than genotyped SNPs alone (hg2 = 0.32 (S.E. 0.029)). These estimates were based on cross-cohort comparisons, ensuring that cohort-specific assay artifacts did not contribute to our estimates. In a large multiple sclerosis data set (WTCCC2-MS), we observed an even larger difference between hhap2 and hg2, though data from other cohorts will be required to validate this result. Overall, our results suggest that haplotypes of common SNPs can explain a large fraction of missing heritability of complex disease, shedding light on genetic architecture and informing disease mapping strategies.', u'Variation in gene expression contributes to the diversity of phenotype. The construction of the pan-transcriptome is especially necessary for species with complex genomes, such as maize. However, knowledge of the regulation mechanisms and functional consequences of the pan-transcriptome is limited. In this study, we identified 13,382 nuclear expression presence and absence variation candidates (ePAVs, expressed in 5%~95% lines; based on the reference genome) by re-analyzing the RNA sequencing data from the kernels (15 days after pollination) of 368 maize diverse inbreds. It was estimated that only ~1% of the ePAVs are explained by DNA sequence presence and absence variations (PAV). The ePAV genes tend to be regulated by distant eQTLs when compared with non-ePAV genes (called here core expression genes, expressed in more than 95% lines). When the expression presence/absence status was used as the ???genotype??? to perform genome-wide association study, 56 (0.42%) ePAVs were significantly associated with 15 agronomic traits and 1,967 (14.74%) with 526 metabolic traits, measured from the mature kernels. While the above was majorly based on the reference genome, by using a modified ???assemble-then-align??? strategy, 2,355 high confidence novel sequences with a total length of 1.9Mb were found absent in the current B73 reference genome (v2). Ten randomly selected novel sequences were validated with genomic PCR. A simulation analysis suggested that the pan-transcriptome of the maize whole kernel is approaching a maximum value of 63,000 genes. Two novel validated sequences annotated as NBS_LRR like genes were found to associate with flavonoid content and their homologs in rice were also found to affect flavonoids and disease-resistance. Novel sequences absent in the present reference genome might be functionally important and deserve more attentions. This study provides novel perspectives and resources to discover maize quantitative trait variations and help us to better understand the kernel regulation networks, thus enhancing maize breeding.', u'We analyze a class of chemical reaction networks for which all moments can be computed by finite-dimensional linear differential equations.  This class allows second and higher order reactions, but only under special assumptions on structure and/or conservation laws.', u'We explore solutions for identifying and reconciling taxonomic concepts that take advantage of the powers of computational representation and reasoning without compromising the suitability of the Linnaean system of nomenclature for human communication. Using the model of the semiotic triangle, we show that taxonomic names must variously achieve reference to nomenclatural types, taxonomic concepts (human-created theories of taxonomic identities), and taxa (evolutionary entities in nature). Expansion of the reference models into temporally transitioning systems shows that the elements of each triangle, and provenance among elements across triangles, are only identifiable if taxonomic names and concepts are precisely contextualized. The Codes of nomenclature, by mandating identifier (name) reuse but not requiring concept-specific identifier granularity, leave the challenge of framing and aligning the symbol/reference instances to human communicators who have superior cognitive abilities in this regard. Computers, in turn, can process greater volumes of narrowly framed and logically aligned data. Comparative, taxonomically referenced biological data are becoming increasingly networked and reutilized in analyses that expand their original context of generation. If we expect our virtual comparative information environments to provide logically enabled taxonomic concept provenance services, then we must improve the syntax and semantics of human taxonomy making - for computers.', u"Shotgun metagenomic DNA sequencing is a widely applicable tool for characterizing the functions that are encoded by microbial communities. Several bioinformatic tools can be used to functionally annotate metagenomes, allowing researchers to draw inferences about the functional potential of the community and to identify putative functional biomarkers. However, little is known about how decisions made during annotation affect the reliability of the results. Here, we use statistical simulations to rigorously assess how to optimize annotation accuracy and speed, given parameters of the input data like read length and library size. We identify best practices in metagenome annotation and use them to guide the development of the Shotgun Metagenome Annotation Pipeline (ShotMAP). ShotMAP is an analytically flexible, end-to-end annotation pipeline that can be implemented either on a local computer or a cloud compute cluster. We use ShotMAP to assess how different annotation databases impact the interpretation of how marine metagenome and metatranscriptome functional capacity changes across seasons. We also apply ShotMAP to data obtained from a clinical microbiome investigation of inflammatory bowel disease. This analysis finds that gut microbiota collected from Crohn's disease patients are functionally distinct from gut microbiota collected from either ulcerative colitis patients or healthy controls, with differential abundance of metabolic pathways related to host-microbiome interactions that may serve as putative biomarkers of disease.", u'Abstract With the growing number of protein structures in the protein data bank (PDB), there is a need to annotate these structures at the domain level in order to relate protein structure to protein function. Thanks to the SIFTS database, many PDB chains are now cross-referenced with Pfam domains and enzyme commission (EC) numbers. However, these annotations do not include any explicit relationship between individual Pfam domains and EC numbers. This article presents a novel statistical training-based method called EC-PSI that can automatically infer high confidence associations between EC numbers and Pfam domains directly from EC-chain associations from SIFTS and from EC-sequence associations from the SwissProt, and TrEMBL databases. By collecting and integrating these existing EC-chain/sequence annotations, our approach is able to infer a total of 8,329 direct EC-Pfam associations with an overall F-measure of 0.819 with respect to the manually curated InterPro database, which we treat here as a \u201cgold standard\u201d reference dataset. Thus, compared to the 1,493 EC-Pfam associations in InterPro, our approach provides a way to find over six times as many high quality EC-Pfam associations completely automatically.', u'When the ranges of two hybridizing species overlap, individuals may \u2018waste\u2019 gametes on inviable or infertile hybrids. In these cases, selection against maladaptive hybridization can lead to the evolution of enhanced reproductive isolation in a process called reinforcement. On the slopes of the African island of S\xe3o Tom\xe9, Drosophila yakuba and its endemic sister species D. santomea have a well-defined hybrid zone. Drosophila yakuba females from within this zone show increased postmating-prezygotic isolation towards D. santomea males when compared with D. yakuba females from allopatric populations. To understand why reinforced gametic isolation is confined to areas of secondary contact and has not spread throughout the entire D. yakuba geographic range, we studied the costs of reinforcement in D. yakuba using a combination of natural collections and experimental evolution. We found that D. yakuba males from sympatric populations sire fewer progeny than allopatric males when mated to allopatric D. yakuba females. Our results suggest that the correlated evolution of male and female reproductive traits in sympatric D. yakuba have associated costs (i.e., reduced male fertility) that prevent the alleles responsible for enhanced isolation from spreading outside the hybrid zone.', u'The relationship between functional brain activity and gene expression has not been fully explored in the human brain. Here, we identify significant correlations between gene expression in the brain and functional activity by comparing fractional Amplitude of Low Frequency Fluctuations (fALFF) from two independent human fMRI resting state datasets to regional cortical gene expression from a newly generated RNA-seq dataset and two additional gene expression datasets to obtain robust and reproducible correlations. We find significantly more genes correlated with fALFF than expected by chance, and identify specific genes correlated with the imaging signals in multiple expression datasets in the default mode network. Together, these data support a population-level relationship between regional steady state brain gene expression and resting state brain activity.', u'Spinal interneurons are partially phase-locked to physiological tremor around 10Hz. The phase of spinal interneuron activity is approximately opposite to descending drive to motoneurons, leading to partial phase cancellation and tremor reduction. Pre-synaptic inhibition of afferent feedback modulates during voluntary movements, but it is not known whether it tracks more rapid fluctuations in motor output such as during tremor. \nIn this study, dorsal root potentials (DRPs) were recorded from the C8 and T1 roots in two macaque monkeys following intra-spinal micro-stimulation (random inter-stimulus interval 1.5-2.5 s, 30-100?A), whilst the animals performed an index finger flexion task which elicited peripheral oscillations around 10Hz. Forty one responses were identified with latency <5ms; these were narrow (mean width 0.59 ms), and likely resulted from antidromic activation of afferents following stimulation near terminals. Significant modulation during task performance occurred in 16/41 responses, reflecting terminal excitability changes generated by pre-synaptic inhibition (Wall?s excitability test). Stimuli falling during large-amplitude 8-12Hz oscillations in finger acceleration were extracted, and sub-averages of DRPs constructed for stimuli delivered at different oscillation phases. Although some apparent phase-dependent modulation was seen, this was not above the level expected by chance.\nWe conclude that although terminal excitability reflecting pre-synaptic inhibition of afferents modulates over the timescale of a voluntary movement, it does not follow more rapid changes in motor output. This suggests that pre-synaptic inhibition is not part of the spinal systems for tremor reduction described previously, and that it plays a role in overall ? but not moment-by-moment ? regulation of feedback gain.', u"Identifying the gene targets of distal regulatory sequences is a challenging problem with the potential to illuminate the causal underpinnings of complex diseases.  However, current experimental methods to map enhancer-promoter interactions genome-wide are limited by their cost and complexity.  We present TargetFinder, a computational method that reconstructs a cell's three-dimensional regulatory landscape from two-dimensional genomic features.  TargetFinder achieves outstanding predictive accuracy across diverse cell lines with a false discovery rate up to fifteen times smaller than common heuristics, and reveals that distal regulatory interactions are characterized by distinct signatures of protein interactions and epigenetic marks on the DNA loop between an active enhancer and targeted promoter. Much of this signature is shared across cell types, shedding light on the role of chromatin organization in gene regulation and establishing TargetFinder as a method to accurately map long-range regulatory interactions using a small number of easily acquired datasets.", u'Development is a process that needs to tightly coordinated in both space and time. Cell tracking and lineage tracing have become important experimental techniques in developmental biology and allow us to map the fate of cells and their progeny in both space and time. A generic feature of developing (as well as homeostatic) tissues that these analyses have revealed is that relatively few cells give rise to the bulk of the cells in a tissue; the lineages of most cells come to an end fairly quickly. This has spurned the interest also of computational and theoretical biologists/physicists who have developed a range of modelling -- perhaps most notably are the agent-based modelling (ABM) --- approaches. These can become computationally prohibitively expensive but seem to capture some of the features observed in experiments. Here we develop a complementary perspective that allows us to understand the dynamics leading to the formation of a tissue (or colony of cells). Borrowing from the rich population genetics literature we develop genealogical models of tissue development that trace the ancestry of cells in a tissue back to their most recent common ancestors. We apply this approach to tissues that grow under confined conditions --- as would, for example, be appropriate for the neural crest --- and unbounded growth --- illustrative of the behaviour of 2D tumours or bacterial colonies. The classical coalescent model from population genetics is readily adapted to capture tissue genealogies for different models of tissue growth and development. We show that simple but universal scaling relationships allow us to establish relationships between the coalescent and different fractal growth models that have been extensively studied in many different contexts, including developmental biology. Using our genealogical perspective we are able to study the statistical properties of the processes that give rise to tissues of cells, without the need for large-scale simulations.', u'We demonstrate a two-photon imaging system with corrected optics including a\ncustom objective that provides cellular resolution across a 3.5 mm field of view (9.6 mm^2). Temporally multiplexed excitation pathways can be independently repositioned in XY\nand Z to simultaneously image regions within the expanded field of view. We used this\nnew imaging system to measure activity correlations between neurons in different\ncortical areas in awake mice.', u'Anthropometric traits are of global clinical relevance as risk factors for a wide range of disease, including obesity. Yet despite many hundreds of genetic variants having been associated with anthropometric measurements, these variants still explain little variation of the traits. Joint-modeling of multiple anthropometric traits, has the potential to boost discovery power, but has not been applied to global-scale meta-analyses of genome-wide association studies (meta-GWAS). Here, we develop a simple method to perform multi-trait meta-GWAS using summary statistics reported in standard single-trait meta-GWAS and replicate the findings in an independent cohort. Using the summary statistics reported by the GIANT consortium meta-GWAS of 270,000 individuals, we discovered 359 novel loci significantly associated with six anthropometric traits. The \u201covereating gene\u201d GRM5 (P = 4.38E-54) was the strongest novel locus, and was independently replicated in the Generation Scotland cohort (n = 9,603, P = 4.42E-03). The novel variants had an enriched rediscovery rate in the replication cohort. Our results provide new important insights into the biological mechanisms underlying anthropometric traits and emphasize the value of combining multiple correlated phenotypes in genomic studies. Our method has general applicability and can be applied as a secondary analysis of any standard GWAS or meta-GWAS with multiple traits.', u'Recent technological advancements enable measuring the binding of a transcription factor to thousands of DNA sequences, in order to infer its binding preferences. High-throughput-SELEX measures protein-DNA binding by deep sequencing over several cycles of enrichment. We devised a new algorithm called HTS-IBIS for the inference task. HTS-IBIS corrects for technological biases, selects the cycle and k, and builds a motif starting from a consensus k-mer in that cycle. In large scale tests, HTS-IBIS outperformed the extant automatic algorithm for the motif finding task on both in vitro and in vivo binding prediction.', u'Populations facing novel environments can persist by adapting. In nature, the ability to adapt and persist will depend on interactions between coexisting individuals. Here we use an adaptive dynamic model to assess how the potential for evolutionary rescue is affected by intra- and interspecific competition. Intraspecific competition (negative density-dependence) lowers abundance, which decreases the supply rate of beneficial mutations, hindering evolutionary rescue. On the other hand, interspecific competition can aid evolutionary rescue when it speeds adaptation by increasing the strength of selection. Our results clarify this point and give an additional requirement: competition must increase selection pressure enough to overcome the negative effect of reduced abundance. We therefore expect evolutionary rescue to be most likely in communities which facilitate rapid niche displacement. Our model, which aligns to previous quantitative and population genetic models in the absence of competition, provides a first analysis of when competitors should help or hinder evolutionary rescue.', u'African Pygmies practicing a mobile hunter-gatherer lifestyle are phenotypically and genetically diverged from other anatomically modern humans, and they likely experienced strong selective pressures due to their unique lifestyle in the Central African rainforest. To identify genomic targets of adaptation, we sequenced the genomes of four Biaka Pygmies from the Central African Republic and jointly analyzed these data with the genome sequences of three Baka Pygmies from Cameroon and nine Yoruba famers. To account for the complex demographic history of these populations that includes both isolation and gene flow, we fit models using the joint allele frequency spectrum and validated them using independent approaches. Our two best-fit models both suggest ancient divergence between the ancestors of the farmers and Pygmies, 90,000 or 150,000 years ago. We also find that bi-directional asymmetric gene-flow is statistically better supported than a single pulse of unidirectional gene flow from farmers to Pygmies, as previously suggested. We then applied complementary statistics to scan the genome for evidence of selective sweeps and polygenic selection. We found that conventional statistical outlier approaches were biased toward identifying candidates in regions of high mutation or low recombination rate. To avoid this bias, we assigned P-values for candidates using whole-genome simulations incorporating demography and variation in both recombination and mutation rates. We found that genes and gene sets involved in muscle development, bone synthesis, immunity, reproduction, cell signaling and development, and energy metabolism are likely to be targets of positive natural selection in Western African Pygmies or their recent ancestors.', u'While eukaryotic and archaean genomes encode the histone fold domain, only eukaryotes encode the core histones H2A, H2B, H3, and H4. Core histones assemble into a hetero-octamer rather than the homo-tetramer of Archaea. Thus it was unexpected that core histone \u201cdoublets\u201d were identified in the cytoplasmic replication factories of the Marseilleviridae (MV), one family of Nucleo-Cytoplasmic Large DNA Viruses (NCLDV). Here we analyze the core histone doublet genes from all known Marseilleviridae genomes and show that they encode obligate H2B-H2A and H4-H3 dimers of likely proto-eukaryotic origin. Each MV core histone moiety forms a sister clade to a eukaryotic core histone clade inclusive of canonical core histone paralogs, suggesting that MV core histone moieties diverged prior to eukaryotic neofunctionalizations associated with paired linear chromosomes and variant histone octamer assembly. We also show that all MV genomes encode a eukaryote-like DNA topoisomerase II enzyme that forms a clade that is sister to the eukaryotic clade. As DNA topo II influences histone deposition and chromatin compaction and is the second most abundant nuclear protein after histones, we suggest MV genes underlie a proto-chromatinized replisome that diverged prior to diversification of eukaryotic core histone variants. Thus, combined domain architecture and phylogenomic analyses suggest that a primitive origin for MV chromatin genes is a more parsimonious explanation than horizontal gene transfers + gene fusions + long-branch attraction constrained to each core histone clade. These results imply that core histones were utilized ancestrally in viral DNA compaction, protection from host endonucleases, and/or other unknown processes associated with NCLDV-like progenitors.', u'Summary: SPARTA is a reference-based bacterial RNA-seq analysis workflow application for single-end Illumina reads. SPARTA is turnkey software that simplifies the process of analyzing RNA-seq data sets, making bacterial RNA-seq analysis a routine process that can be undertaken on a personal computer or in the classroom. The easy-to-install, complete workflow processes whole transcriptome shotgun sequencing data files by trimming reads and removing adapters, mapping reads to a reference, counting gene features, calculating differential gene expression, and, importantly, checking for potential batch effects within the data set. SPARTA outputs quality analysis reports, gene feature counts and differential gene expression tables and scatterplots. The workflow is implemented in Python for file management and sequential execution of each analysis step and is available for Mac OS X, Microsoft Windows, and Linux.  To promote the use of SPARTA as a teaching platform, a web-based tutorial is available explaining how RNA-seq data are processed and analyzed by the software.  \n\nAvailability and Implementation: Tutorial and workflow can be found at sparta.readthedocs.org. Teaching materials are located at sparta-teaching.readthedocs.org. Source code can be downloaded at www.github.com/abramovitchMSU/, implemented in Python and supported on Mac OS X, Linux, and MS Windows. \n\nContact: Robert B. Abramovitch (abramov5@msu.edu)\nSupplemental Information: Supplementary data are available online', u'Reflectance confocal microscopy (RCM) is a powerful tool for in-vivo examination of a variety of skin diseases. However, current use of RCM depends on qualitative examination by a human expert to look for specific features in the different strata of the skin. Developing approaches to quantify features in RCM imagery requires an automated understanding of what anatomical strata is present in a given en-face section. This work presents an automated approach using a bag of features approach to represent en-face sections and a logistic regression classifier to classify sections into one of four classes (stratum corneum, viable epidermis, dermal-epidermal junction and papillary dermis). This approach was developed and tested using a dataset of 308 depth stacks from 54 volunteers in two age groups (20-30 and 50-70 years of age). The classification accuracy on the test set was 85.6%. The mean absolute error in determining the interface depth for each of the stratum corneum/viable epidermis, viable epidermis/dermal-epidermal junction and dermal-epidermal junction/papillary dermis interfaces were 3.1 \u03bcm, 6.0 \u03bcm and 5.5 \u03bcm respectively. The probabilities predicted by the classifier in the test set showed that the classifier learned an effective model of the anatomy of human skin.', u'Plants and animals rely on immune receptors, known as nucleotide-binding domain and leucine-rich repeat containing proteins (NB-LRR or NLR), to defend against invading pathogens and activate immune responses. How NLR receptors respond to pathogens is inadequately understood. We previously reported single-residue mutations that expand the response of the potato immune receptor R3a to AVR3aEM, a stealthy effector from the late blight oomycete pathogen Phytophthora infestans. I2, another NLR that mediates resistance to the wilt causing fungus Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. lycopersici, is the tomato ortholog of R3a. We transferred previously identified R3a mutations to I2 to assess the degree to which the resulting I2 mutants have an altered response. We discovered that wild-type I2 protein responds weakly to AVR3a. One mutant in the N-terminal coiled-coil domain, I2I141N, appeared sensitized and displayed markedly increased response to AVR3a. Remarkably, I2I141N conferred partial resistance to P. infestans. Further, I2I141N has an expanded response spectrum to F. oxysporum f. sp. lycopersici effectors compared to the wild-type I2 protein. Our results suggest that synthetic immune receptors can be engineered to confer resistance to phylogenetically divergent pathogens and indicate that knowledge gathered for one NLR could be exploited to improve NLRs from other plant species.', u'Commonly used multiplicity adjustments fail to control the error rate for reported findings in many expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) studies. TreeQTL implements a stage-wise multiple testing procedure which allows control of appropriate error rates defined relative to a hierarchical grouping of the eQTL hypotheses.\nThe R package TreeQTL is available for download at http://bioinformatics.org/treeqtl.', u"Introduction. Following the investigation of the mother's preceding pregnancies on fetal development and postnatal survival of the neonate, we turned our attention to an earlier period, that is the interval separating the onset of the current pregnancy from the end of the preceding one. The objectives of this study is to investigate the variations of interpregnancy interval length associated to the mother's preceding pregnancies.\nMethods. A population of 7773 neonates, alive at the time of hospital discharge, were divided into cohorts according to the current neonate's sex and number and sex of the mother's preceding pregnancies. Interpregnancy interval average of each cohort of same neonate's sex and mother's parity, but different configuration of preceding pregnancies, were measured and compared.\nResults. A positive association was found between mother's preceding pregnancies and length of interpregnancy interval when current pregnancy and preceding pregnancy were of the same sex, and a negative association when they were of opposite sex. \nDiscussion. Interpregnancy interval length follows a pattern regarding the gravida's preceding pregnancy similar to the other early life indicators pattern, birth weight, placenta weight, gestation length and neonatal survival. Our results confirm and complete an immunological explanation of the indicators variations associated to the gravida's preceding pregnancy.", u'Intracellular protein copy numbers show significant cell-to-cell variability within an isogenic population due to the random nature of biological reactions. Here we show how the variability in copy number can be controlled by perturbing gene expression. Depending on the genetic network and host, different perturbations can be applied to control variability. To understand more fully how noise propagates and behaves in biochemical networks we developed stochastic control analysis (SCA) which is a sensitivity-based analysis framework for the study of noise control. Here we apply SCA to synthetic gene expression systems encoded on plasmids that are transformed into Escherichia coli. \nWe show that (1) dual control of transcription and translation efficiencies provides the most efficient way of noise-vs.-mean control. (2) The expressed proteins follow the gamma distribution function as found in chromosomal proteins. (3) One of the major sources of noise, leading to the cell-to-cell variability in protein copy numbers, is related to bursty translation. (4) By taking into account stochastic fluctuations in autofluorescence,  the correct scaling relationship between the noise and mean levels of the protein copy numbers was recovered for the case of weak fluorescence signals.', u'NACHT- and Leucine-Rich-Repeat-containing domain (NLR) proteins act as cytoplasmic sensors for pathogen- and danger-associated molecular patterns and are found throughout the plant and animal kingdoms. In addition to having a small set of conserved NLRs, the genomes in some animal lineages contain massive expansions of this gene family. One of these arose in fishes, after the creation of a gene fusion that combined the core NLR domains with another domain used for immune recognition, the PRY/SPRY or B30.2 domain. We have analysed the expanded NLR gene family in zebrafish, which contains 368 genes, and studied its evolutionary history. The encoded proteins share a defining overall structure, but individual domains show different evolutionary trajectories. Our results suggest gene conversion homogenizes NACHT and B30.2 domain sequences among different gene subfamilies, however, the functional implications of its action remains unclear. The majority of the genes are located on the long arm of chromosome 4, interspersed with several other large multi-gene families, including a new family encoding proteins with multiple tandem arrays of Zinc fingers. This suggests that chromosome 4 may be a hotspot for rapid evolutionary change in zebrafish.', u'The Dobzhansky-Muller model posits that incompatibilities between alleles at different loci cause speciation. However, it is known that if the alleles involved in a Dobzhansky-Muller incompatibility (DMI) between two loci are neutral, the resulting reproductive isolation cannot be maintained in the presence of either mutation or gene flow. Here we show that speciation can emerge through the collective effects of multiple neutral DMIs that cannot, individually, cause speciation-a mechanism we call emergent speciation. We investigate emergent speciation using models of haploid holey adaptive landscapes-neutral networks-with recombination. We find that certain combinations of multiple neutral DMIs can lead to speciation. Furthermore, emergent speciation is a robust mechanism that can occur in the presence of migration, and of deviations from the assumptions of the neutral network model. Strong recombination and complex interactions between the DMI loci facilitate emergent speciation. These conditions are likely to occur in nature. We conclude that the interaction between DMIs may cause speciation.', u'Sequencing projects have identified large numbers of rare stop-gain and frameshift variants in the human genome. As most of these are observed in the heterozygous state, they test a gene?s tolerance to haploinsufficiency and dominant loss of function. We analyzed the distribution of truncating variants across 16,260 protein coding autosomal genes in 11,546 individuals. We observed 39,893 truncating variants affecting 12,062 genes, which significantly differed from an expectation of 12,916 genes under a model of neutral de novo mutation (p<1E-4). Extrapolating this to increasing numbers of sequenced individuals, we estimate that 10.8% of human genes do not tolerate heterozygous truncating variants. An additional 10 to 15% of truncated genes may be rescued by incomplete penetrance or compensatory mutations, or because the truncating variants are of limited functional impact. The study of protein truncating variants delineates the essential genome and, more generally, identifies rare heterozygous variants as an unexplored source of diversity of phenotypic traits and diseases.', u'We recently presented an estimate of the number of mutually discriminable olfactory stimuli at one trillion (1). Subjects were asked to sniff mixtures of molecules with increasing component overlap selected from a panel of 128 isointense structurally and perceptually diverse monomolecular odorants (2). We considered stimulus pairs discriminable when the majority of subjects could significantly discriminate them at p=0.05, a conventional statistical threshold given our sample size. From these empirical data, we estimated that human discriminative capacity exceeds one trillion olfactory stimuli. Several readers have pointed out that such extrapolations are sensitive to underlying assumptions about the chosen significance threshold (3) and the dimensionality of olfaction (4). It is important to note that any exponential function will be sensitive in this way, and the goal of our model was not to identify the exact number of discriminable olfactory stimuli, or even the exact mathematical bounds, but an estimate of the order of magnitude of human discriminatory power across a population of human subjects. This was not clearly stated in our paper, and we agree that contradictory references to a \u201clower limit\u201d and an \u201cupper bound\u201d were confusing. The central argument in (4) is that our estimation method assumes that the dimensionality of olfactory space is large. We agree that the high-dimensional nature of olfaction is indeed an assumption, and we should have stated this explicitly in our paper (1). Even if we follow this logic of the models presented in (4), purely geometrical calculations show that our results hold if the dimensionality of olfactory representations is D\u226525. The dimensionality of olfaction is a question of interest to everyone, and while we do not know for sure, all available evidence suggests that olfaction is a high-dimensional sense. The olfactory system is wired to keep information from the ~400 odorant receptors strictly separated, so it is plausible that olfaction operates at least in 400-dimensional space. This is an important topic of discussion in olfaction, and we welcome continued debate of the dimensionality of smell and how this impacts human olfactory perception.', u"How likely is it that a population escapes extinction through adaptive evolution? The answer to this question is of great relevance in conservation biology, where we aim at species' rescue and the maintenance of biodiversity, and in agriculture and\nepidemiology, where we seek to hamper the emergence of pesticide or drug resistance. By reshuffling the genome, recombination has two antagonistic effects on the probability of evolutionary rescue: it generates and it breaks up favorable gene combinations. Which of the two effects prevails, depends on the fitness effects of mutations and on the impact of stochasticity on the allele frequencies. In this paper, we analyze a mathematical model for rescue after a sudden environmental change when adaptation is\ncontingent on mutations at two loci. The analysis reveals a complex nonlinear dependence of population survival on recombination. We moreover find that, counterintuitively, a fast eradication of the wildtype can promote rescue in the presence of recombination. The model also shows that two-step rescue is not unlikely to happen and can even be more likely than single-step rescue (where adaptation relies on a single mutation), depending on the circumstances.", u'Ribosome-footprint profiling provides genome-wide snapshots of translation, but technical challenges can confound its analysis. Here, we use improved methods to obtain ribosome-footprint profiles and mRNA abundances that more faithfully reflect gene expression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Our results support proposals that both the beginning of coding regions and codons matching rare tRNAs are more slowly translated. They also indicate that emergent polypeptides with as few as three basic residues within a 10-residue window tend to slow translation. With the improved mRNA measurements, the variation attributable to translational control in exponentially growing yeast was less than previously reported, and most of this variation could be predicted with a simple model that considered mRNA abundance, upstream open reading frames, cap-proximal structure and nucleotide composition, and lengths of the coding and 5\u2032- untranslated regions. Collectively, our results reveal key features of translational control in yeast and provide a framework for executing and interpreting ribosome- profiling studies.', u'Antibiotic drug resistance spreads through horizontal gene transfer (HGT) via bacterial conjugation in unicellular populations of bacteria. Consequently, the efficiency of antibiotics is limited and the expected \u201cgrace period\u201d of novel antibiotics is typically quite short. One of the mechanisms that allow the accelerated adaptation of bacteria to antibiotics is bacterial conjugation. However, bacterial conjugation is regulated by several biological factors, with one of the most important ones being repression and de-repression. \nIn recent work, we have studied the effects that repression and de-repression on the mutation-selection balance of an HGT-enabled bacterial population in a static environment.  Two of our main findings were that conjugation has a deleterious effect on the mean fitness of the population and that repression is expected to allow a restoration of the fitness cost due to plasmid hosting. \nHere, we consider the effect that conjugation-mediated HGT has on the speed of adaptation in a dynamic environment and the effect that repression will have on the dynamics of antibiotic drug resistance. We find that, the effect of repression is dynamic in its possible outcome, that a conjugators to non-conjugators phase transition exists in a dynamic landscape as we have previously found for a static landscape and we quantify the time required for a unicellular population to adapt to a new antibiotic in a periodically changing fitness landscape. Our results also confirmed that HGT accelerates adaptation for a population of prokaryotes which agrees with current knowledge, that HGT rates increase when a population is put under stress.', u'The growing burden of antimicrobial resistance is one of the most challenging problems facing public health today, and understanding how our approaches for using antimicrobial drugs shapes future levels of resistance is crucial. Recently there has been debate over whether an aggressive (i.e. high dose) or more moderate (i.e. lower dose) treatment of individuals will most limit the emergence and spread of resistant bacteria. Here we demonstrate how one can understand and resolve these apparently contradictory conclusions. We show that a key determinant of which treatment strategy will perform best at the individual level is the extent of effective competition between resistant and sensitive pathogens within a host. We extend our analysis to the community level, exploring the spectrum between strict inter-strain competition and strain independence. From this perspective as well, we find that the magnitude of effective competition between resistant and sensitive strains determines whether an aggressive approach or moderate approach minimizes the burden of resistance in the population.', u'The brain matures with large quantitative changes in anatomy and function. Graph analysis of EEG has previously revealed increased connectivity between distant brain areas and a decrease in randomness and increased integration in the brain network with concurrent increased modularity. Comparisons of graph parameters across age groups, however, may be confounded with network degree distributions. Here, we analyzed graph parameters from minimum spanning tree (MST) graphs. MST graphs are constructed by selecting only the strongest available connections avoiding loops resulting in a backbone graph that is thought reflect the major qualitative properties of connectivity while allowing a better comparison across age groups by avoiding the degree distribution confound. EEG was recorded in a large (N=1500) population-based sample aged 5 to 71 years. Connectivity was assessed using Phase Lag Index to reduce effects of volume conduction. As previously reported, connectivity increased from childhood to adolescence, continuing to grow nonsignificantly into adulthood decreasing only after ~30 years of age. Leaf number, degree, degree correlation, maximum centrality from the MST graph indicated a pattern of increased integration and decreased randomness from childhood into early adulthood. The observed development in network topology suggested that maturation at the neuronal level is aimed to increase connectivity as well as increase integration of the brain network. We confirm that brain network connectivity shows quantitative changes across the life span, and additionally demonstrate parallel qualitative changes in the connectivity pattern.', u'Convergently evolved mole-rats (Mammalia, Rodentia) provide a fascinating model for studying convergent molecular evolution. Three genome sequences have recently been made available for the blind mole-rat (Nannospalax galili; Spalacidae; Muroidea)1, and the convergently evolved naked mole-rat (Heterocephalus glaber; Heterocephalidae; Ctenohystrica)2 and its close relative the Damaraland mole-rat (Fukomys damarensis; Bathyergidae; Ctenohystrica)3. In their genome paper1, Fang et al. evaluated convergent molecular evolution related to the subterranean life-style between the naked mole-rat and the blind mole-rat. One particularly striking result was the strong signal for amino acid convergence detected in the circadian rhythm CLOCK gene. Here I show that this unexpected result is erroneous because it is based on the use of the wrong sequence for the naked mole-rat, which has been mistakenly replaced by a sequence from a blind mole-rat. When the correct sequence is used, the evidence for convergent molecular evolution in this gene appears very limited.', u'Genome organization is crucial for efficiently responding to DNA damage and regulating transcription.  In this study, we relate the genome organization of Saccharomyces cerevisiae (budding yeast) to its transcription activity by analyzing published circularized chromosome conformation capture (4C) data in conjunction with eight separate datasets describing genome-wide transcription rate or RNA polymerase II (Pol II) occupancy. We find that large chromosome segments are more likely to interact in areas that have high transcription rate or Pol II occupancy.  Additionally, we find that groups of genes with similar transcription rates or similar Pol II occupancy are more likely to have higher numbers of chromosomal interactions than groups of random genes.  We hypothesize that transcription localization occurs around sets of genes with similar transcription rates, and more often around genes that are highly transcribed, in order to produce more efficient transcription.  Our analysis cannot discern whether gene co-localization occurs because of similar transcription rates or whether similar transcription rates are a consequence of co-localization.', u'Background: Genomic prediction aims to leverage genome-wide genetic data towards better disease diagnostics and risk scores. We have previously published a genomic risk score (GRS) for celiac disease (CD), a common and highly heritable autoimmune disease, which differentiates between CD cases and population-based controls at a clinically-relevant predictive level, improving upon other gene-based approaches. HLA risk haplotypes, particularly HLA-DQ2.5, are necessary but not sufficient for CD, with at least one HLA risk haplotype present in up to half of most Caucasian populations. Here, we assess a genomic prediction strategy that specifically targets this common genetic susceptibility subtype, utilizing a supervised learning procedure for CD that leverages known HLA-DQ2.5 risk.\n\nMethods: Using L1/L2-regularized support-vector machines trained on large European case-control datasets, we constructed novel CD GRSs specific to individuals with HLA-DQ2.5 risk haplotypes (GRS-DQ2.5) and compared them with the predictive power of the existing CD GRS (GRS14) as well as two haplotype-based approaches, externally validating the results in a North American case-control study.\n\nResults: Consistent with previous observations, both the existing GRS14 and the GRS-DQ2.5 had better predictive performance than the HLA haplotype approaches. GRS-DQ2.5 models, based on directly genotyped or imputed markers, achieved similar levels of predictive performance (AUC = 0.718-0.73), which were substantially higher than those obtained from the DQ2.5 zygosity alone (AUC = 0.558), the HLA risk haplotype method (AUC = 0.634), or the generic GRS14 (AUC = 0.679). In a screening model of at-risk individuals, the GRS-DQ2.5 lowered the number of unnecessary follow-up tests for CD across most sensitivity levels. Relative to a baseline implicating all DQ2.5-positive individuals for follow-up, the GRS-DQ2.5 resulted in a net saving of 2.2 unnecessary follow-up tests for each justified test while still capturing 90% of DQ2.5-positive CD cases.\n\nConclusions: Genomic risk scores for CD that target genetically at-risk sub-groups improve predictive performance beyond traditional approaches and may represent a useful strategy for prioritizing individuals at increase risk of disease, thus potentially reducing unnecessary follow-up diagnostic tests.', u"As populations spread into new territory, environmental heterogeneities can shape the population front and genetic composition. We study here the effect of one important building block of inhomogeneous environments, compact obstacles. With a combination of experiments, theory, and simulation, we show how isolated obstacles both create long-lived distortions of the front shape and amplify the effect of genetic drift.\n\nA system of bacteriophage T7 spreading on a spatially heterogeneous Escherichia coli lawn serves as an experimental model system to study population expansions. Using an inkjet printer, we create well-defined replicates of the lawn and quantitatively study the population expansion manifested in plaque growth. The transient perturbations of the plaque boundary found in the experiments are well described by a model in which the front moves with constant speed. Independent of the precise details of the expansion, we show that obstacles create a kink in the front that persists over large distances and is insensitive to the details of the obstacle's shape. The small deviations between experimental findings and the predictions of the constant speed model can be understood with a more general reaction-diffusion model, which reduces to the constant speed model when the obstacle size is large compared to the front width. Using this framework, we demonstrate that frontier alleles that just graze the side of an isolated obstacle increase in abundance, a phenomenon we call 'geometry-enhanced genetic drift', complementary to the founder effect associated with spatial bottlenecks. Bacterial range expansions around nutrient-poor barriers and stochastic simulations confirm this prediction, the latter highlight as well the effect of the obstacle on the genealogy of individuals at the front.\n\nWe argue that related ideas and experimental techniques are applicable to a wide variety of more complex environments, leading to a better understanding of how environmental heterogeneities affect population range expansions.", u'The adaptive immune system relies on the diversity of receptors expressed on the surface of B and T-cells to protect the organism from a vast amount of pathogenic threats. The proliferation and degradation dynamics of different cell types  (B cells, T cells, naive, memory) is governed by a variety of antigenic and environmental signals, yet the observed clone sizes follow a universal power law distribution. Guided by this reproducibility we propose effective models of somatic evolution where cell fate depends on an effective fitness. This fitness is determined by growth factors acting either on clones of cells with the same receptor responding to specific antigens, or directly on single cells with no regards for clones. We identify fluctuations in the fitness acting specifically on clones as the essential ingredient leading to the observed distributions. Combining our models with experiments we characterize the scale of fluctuations in antigenic environments and we provide tools to identify the relevant growth signals in different tissues and organisms. Our results generalize to any evolving population in a fluctuating environment.', u'DNA methylation is an epigenetic modification, influenced by both genetic and environmental variation, that can affect transcription and many organismal phenotypes. Although patterns of DNA methylation have been shown to differ between human populations, it remains to be determined whether epigenetic diversity mirrors the patterns observed for DNA polymorphisms or gene expression levels. We measured DNA methylation at 480,000 sites in 34 individuals from five diverse human populations in the Human Genome Diversity Panel, and analyzed these together with single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and gene expression data. We found greater population-specificity of DNA methylation than of mRNA levels, which may be driven by the greater genetic control of methylation. This study provides insights into gene expression and its epigenetic regulation across populations and offers a deeper understanding of worldwide patterns of epigenetic diversity in humans.', u"The majority of disease-associated variants identified in genome-wide association studies (GWAS) reside in noncoding regions of the genome with regulatory roles. Thus being able to interpret the functional consequence of a variant is essential for identifying causal variants in the analysis of GWAS studies. We present GERV (Generative Evaluation of Regulatory Variants), a novel computational method for predicting regulatory variants that affect transcription factor binding. GERV learns a k-mer based generative model of transcription factor binding from ChIP-seq and DNase-seq data, and scores variants by computing the change of predicted ChIP-seq reads between the reference and alternate allele.  The k-mers learned by GERV capture more sequence determinants of transcription factor binding than a motif-based approach alone, including both a transcription factor's canonical motif as well as associated co-factor motifs. We show that GERV outperforms existing methods in predicting SNPs associated with allele-specific binding. GERV correctly predicts a validated causal variant among linked SNPs, and prioritizes the variants previously reported to modulate the binding of FOXA1 in breast cancer cell lines. Thus, GERV provides a powerful approach for functionally annotating and prioritizing causal variants for experimental follow-up analysis.", u'High-throughput sequencing of reduced representation libraries obtained through digestion with restriction enzymes ? generically known as restriction-site associated DNA sequencing (RAD-seq) ? is a common strategy to generate genome-wide genotypic and sequence data from eukaryotes. A critical design element of any RAD-seq study is a knowledge of the approximate number of genetic markers that can be obtained for a taxon using different restriction enzymes, as this number determines the scope of a project, and ultimately defines its success. This number can only be directly determined if a reference genome sequence is available, or it can be estimated if the genome size and restriction recognition sequence probabilities are known. However, both scenarios are uncommon for non-model species. Here, we performed systematic in silico surveys of recognition sequences, for diverse and commonly used type II restriction enzymes across the eukaryotic tree of life. Our observations reveal that recognition-sequence frequencies for a given restriction enzyme are strikingly variable among broad eukaryotic taxonomic groups, being largely determined by phylogenetic relatedness. We demonstrate that genome sizes can be predicted from cleavage frequency data obtained with restriction enzymes targeting ?neutral? elements. Models based on genomic compositions are also effective tools to accurately calculate probabilities of recognition sequences across taxa, and can be applied to species for which reduced-representation data is available (including transcriptomes and ?neutral? RAD-seq datasets). The analytical pipeline developed in this study, PredRAD (https://github.com/phrh/PredRAD), and the resulting databases constitute valuable resources that will help guide the design of any study using RAD-seq or related methods.', u'XWAS is a new software suite for the analysis of the X chromosome in association studies and similar studies. The X chromosome plays an important role in human disease, especially those with sexually dimorphic characteristics. Special attention needs to be given to its analysis due to the unique inheritance pattern, which leads to analytical complications that have resulted in the majority of genome-wide association studies (GWAS) either not considering X or mishandling it with toolsets that had been designed for non-sex chromosomes. We hence developed XWAS to fill the need for tools that are specially designed for analysis of X. Following extensive, stringent, and X-specific quality control, XWAS offers an array of statistical tests of association, including: (1) the standard test between a SNP (single nucleotide polymorphism) and disease risk, including after first stratifying individuals by sex, (2) a test for a differential effect of a SNP on disease between males and females, (3) motivated by X-inactivation, a test for higher variance of a trait in heterozygous females as compared to homozygous females, and (4) for all tests, a version that allows for combining evidence from all SNPs across a gene. We applied the toolset analysis pipeline to 16 GWAS datasets of immune-related disorders and 7 risk factors of coronary artery disease, and discovered several new X-linked genetic associations. XWAS will provide the tools and incentive for others to incorporate the X chromosome into GWAS, hence enabling discoveries of novel loci implicated in many diseases and in their sexual dimorphism.', u'Background: Evidence-based clinical practice relies on unbiased reporting of negative results. Meta-analysis of drug safety and efficacy across many clinical trials is difficult given the unconstrained nature of reasons that are provided to ClinicalTrials.gov to explain clinical trial terminations.\nMethods and Findings: We scanned all trials in ClinicalTrials.gov marked with the \u201cterminated\u201d status (N=3122), meaning the trial had been stopped before the scheduled end date. Under the current reporting framework, any number of reasons may be given for termination, and these need not conform to a controlled vocabulary. Here we develop a controlled vocabulary for trial termination, and map each terminated trial to as many as three vocabulary terms. Mapping to this \u201contology of termination\u201d allows further analysis and conclusions. First, we\nidentify the subset of terminated trials that ended citing safety concerns (6.2%) or failure to establish efficacy (10.8%), and were further able to stratify these rates across trials of different phases. Second, we examine termination reasons where a stricter data model could have preserved\nmore evidentiary value, either because the data model was misused (7.6%) or because the given reason left unclear whether the decision to terminate was based on analysis of the data (74.9%, with 20.4% mentioning a decision-maker that may have had access to the data). Third, we show that imposing a controlled vocabulary of reasons for termination would avoid\nambiguity and improve the evidentiary value of clinical trials. \nConclusions: We encourage wider use of an \u201contology of termination\u201d and propose four questions that should be posed on trial termination. These simple steps would promote transparency and enable ready access to negative trial results for meta-analysis.', u'Adult neurogenesis, generation of new functional cells in the mature central nervous system (CNS), has been documented in a number of diverse organisms, ranging from humans to invertebrates. However, the origin and evolution of this phenomenon is still poorly understood for many of the key phylogenetic groups. Echinoderms are one such phylum, positioned as a sister group to chordates within the monophyletic clade Deuterostomia. They are well known for the ability of their adult organs, including the CNS, to completely regenerate after injury. Nothing is known, however, about production of new cells in the nervous tissue under normal physiological conditions in these animals. In this study, we show that new cells are continuously generated in the mature radial nerve cord (RNC) of the sea cucumber Holothuria glaberrima. Importantly, this neurogenic activity is not evenly distributed, but is significantly more extensive in the lateral regions of the RNC than along the midline. Some of the new cells generated in the apical region of the ectoneural neuroepithelium leave their place of origin and migrate basally to populate the neural parenchyma. Gene expression analysis showed that generation of new cells in the adult sea cucumber CNS is associated with transcriptional activity of genes known to be involved in regulation of various aspects of neurogenesis in other animals. Further analysis of one of those genes, the transcription factor Myc showed that it is expressed, in some, but not all radial glial cells, suggesting heterogeneity of this CNS progenitor cell population in echinoderms', u'Within populations of cells, fate decisions are controlled by an indeterminate combination of cell-intrinsic and cell-extrinsic factors. In the case of stem cells, the stem cell niche is believed to maintain "stemness" through communication and interactions between the stem cells and one or more other cell-types that contribute to the niche conditions. To investigate the robustness of cell fate decisions in the stem cell hierarchy and the role that the niche plays, we introduce simple mathematical models of stem and progenitor cells, their progeny and their interplay in the niche. These models capture the fundamental processes of proliferation and differentiation and allow us to consider alternative possibilities regarding how niche-mediated signalling feedback regulates the niche dynamics. Generalised stability analysis of these stem cell niche systems enables us to describe the stability properties of each model. We find that although the number of feasible states depends on the model, their probabilities of stability in general do not: stem cell--niche models are stable across a wide range of parameters. We demonstrate that niche-mediated feedback increases the number of stable steady states, and show how distinct cell states have distinct branching characteristics. The ecological feedback and interactions mediated by the stem cell niche thus lend (surprisingly) high levels of robustness to the stem and progenitor cell population dynamics. Furthermore, cell--cell interactions are sufficient for populations of stem cells and their progeny to achieve stability and maintain homeostasis. We show that the robustness of the niche -- and hence of the stem cell pool in the niche -- depends only weakly, if at all, on the complexity of the niche make-up: simple as well as complicated niche systems are capable of supporting robust and stable stem cell dynamics.', u'Bacterial persistence is a phenomenon wherein small proportion of a bacterial population attains transient antibiotic tolerance likely by virtue of metabolic minimization. Type II Toxin\u2013Antitoxin systems (TAs), small overlapping bicistronic negative auto-regulons, were recently shown to induce the persistence state. Maisonneuve et al., 2013 reported that TAs are activated by a regulatory cascade consisting of stochastic accumulation of ppGpp leading to accumulation of inorganic polyphosphate (polyP). PolyP supposedly is essential for Lon protease-dependent-degradation of antitoxins resulting in activation of toxins and induction of persistence phenotype. In contrast, using semi-quantitative primer extension, we show that transcriptional up-regulation of yefM/yoeB loci, one of the well characterized TAs of Escherichia coli, is independent of ppGpp and polyP. Similarly, we show that chromosome-encoded YoeB-dependent target mRNA cleavage is independent of polyP. Our results and meta-analysis of literature we conclude that the regulation of yefM/yoeB TAs is independent of ppGpp and polyP.', u'Recently developed maximum entropy methods infer evolutionary constraints on protein function and structure from the millions of protein sequences available in genomic databases. The EVfold web server (at EVfold.org) makes these methods available to predict functional and structural interactions in proteins. The key algorithmic development has been to disentangle direct and indirect residue-residue correlations in large multiple sequence alignments and derive direct residue-residue evolutionary couplings (EVcouplings or ECs).  For proteins of unknown structure, distance constraints obtained from evolutionarily couplings between residue pairs are used to de novo predict all-atom 3D structures, often to good accuracy. Given sufficient sequence information in a protein family, this is a major advance toward solving the problem of computing the native 3D fold of proteins from sequence information alone.\nAvailability: EVfold server at http://evfold.org/\nContact: evfoldtest@gmail.com', u'The brain exhibits temporally complex patterns of activity with features similar to those of chaotic systems.   Theoretical studies  over the last twenty years have described various computational advantages for such regimes in neuronal systems. Nevertheless, it still remains unclear whether chaos requires specific cellular properties or network architectures, or whether it is a generic property of neuronal circuits.  We investigate the dynamics of networks of excitatory-inhibitory (EI) spiking neurons with random sparse connectivity operating in the regime of balance of excitation and inhibition. Combining Dynamical Mean-Field Theory with numerical simulations, we show that chaotic, asynchronous firing rate fluctuations emerge generically for sufficiently strong synapses. Two different mechanisms can lead to these chaotic fluctuations. One mechanism relies on slow I-I inhibition which gives rise to slow subthreshold voltage and rate fluctuations. The decorrelation time of these fluctuations is proportional to the time constant of the inhibition. The second mechanism relies on the recurrent E-I-E feedback loop. It requires slow excitation but the inhibition can be fast. In the corresponding dynamical regime all neurons exhibit rate fluctuations on the time scale of the excitation. Another feature of this regime is that the population-averaged firing rate is substantially smaller in the excitatory population than in the inhibitory population. This is not necessarily the case in the I-I mechanism. Finally, we discuss the neurophysiological and computational significance of our results.', u'Fungi and oomycetes include deep and diverse lineages of eukaryotic plant pathogens. The last 10 years have seen the sequencing of the genomes of a multitude of species of these so-called filamentous plant pathogens. Already, fundamental concepts have emerged. Filamentous plant pathogen genomes tend to harbor large repertoires of genes encoding virulence effectors that modulate host plant processes. Effector genes are not randomly distributed across the genomes but tend to be associated with compartments enriched in repetitive sequences and transposable elements. These findings have led to the \u201ctwo-speed genome\u201d model in which filamentous pathogen genomes have a bipartite architecture with gene sparse, repeat rich compartments serving as a cradle for adaptive evolution. Here, we review this concept and discuss how plant pathogens are great model systems to study evolutionary adaptations at multiple time scales. We will also introduce the next phase of research on this topic.', u'Cellular signalling processes can exhibit pronounced cell-to-cell variability in genetically identical cells. This affects how individual cells respond differentially to the same environmental stimulus. However, the origins of cell-to-cell variability in cellular signalling systems remain poorly understood. Here we measure the temporal evolution of phosphorylated MEK and ERK dynamics across populations of cells and quantify the levels of population heterogeneity over time using high-throughput image cytometry. We use a statistical modelling framework to show that upstream noise is the dominant factor  causing cell-to-cell variability in ERK phosphorylation, rather than stochasticity in the phosphorylation/dephosphorylation  of ERK. In particular, the cell-to-cell variability during sustained phosphorylation stems from random fluctuations in the background upstream signalling processes, while during transient phosphorylation, the heterogeneity is primarily due to noise in the intensity of the upstream signal(s). We show that the core MEK/ERK system uses kinetic proof-reading to faithfully and robustly transmits these variable inputs. The MAPK cascade thus propagates cell-to-cell variability at the population level, rather than attenuating or increasing it.', u'Deeper understanding of the anatomical intermediaries for disease and other complex genetic traits is essential to understanding mechanisms and developing new interventions. Existing ontology tools provide functional annotations for many genes in the genome and they are widely used to develop mechanistic hypotheses based on genetic and transcriptomic data. Yet, information about where a set of genes is expressed may be equally useful in interpreting results and forming novel mechanistic hypotheses for a trait. Therefore, we developed a framework for statistically testing the relationship between gene expression across the body and sets of candidate genes from across the genome. We validated this tool and tested its utility on three applications. First, using thousands of loci identified by GWA studies, our framework identifies the number of disease-associated genes that have enriched expression in the disease-affected tissue. Second, we experimentally confirmed an underappreciated prediction highlighted by our tool: variation in skin expressed genes are a major quantitative genetic modulator of white blood cell count - a trait considered to be a feature of the immune system. Finally, using gene lists derived from sequencing data, we show that human genes under constrained selective pressure are disproportionately expressed in nervous system tissues.', u'Recent improvements in deep next-generation sequencing of tumor samples and the ability to identify somatic mutations at low allelic fractions have opened the way for new approaches to model the evolution of individual cancers. The power and utility of these models is increased when tumor samples from multiple sites are sequenced. Temporal ordering of the samples may provide insight into the etiology of both primary and metastatic lesions and rationalizations for tumor recurrence and therapeutic failures. Additional insights may be provided by temporal ordering of evolving subclones ? cellular subpopulations with unique mutational profiles. Current methods for subclone hierarchy inference tightly couple the problem of temporal ordering with that of estimating the fraction of cancer cells harboring each mutation. Here, we present a new framework that includes a rigorous statistical hypothesis test and a collection of tools that make it possible to decouple these problems, which we believe will enable substantial progress in the field of subclone hierarchy inference. The methods presented here can be flexibly combined with methods developed by others addressing either of these problems. We provide tools to interpret hypothesis test results, which inform phylogenetic tree construction, and we introduce the first genetic algorithm designed for this purpose. The utility of our framework is systematically demonstrated in simulations. For most tested combinations of tumor purity, sequencing coverage, and tree complexity, good power (\u2265 0.8) can be achieved and Type 1 error is well controlled when at least three tumor samples are available from a patient. Using data from three published multi-region tumor sequencing studies of (murine) small cell lung cancer, acute myeloid leukemia, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia, in which the authors reconstructed subclonal phylogenetic trees by manual expert curation, we show how different configurations of our tools can identify either a single tree in agreement with the authors, or a small set of trees, which include the authors? preferred tree. Our results have implications for improved modeling of tumor evolution and the importance of multi-region tumor sequencing.', u'Mendelian randomization is a promising approach to help improve causal inference in observational studies, with widespread potential applications, including to prioritization of pharmacotherapeutic targets for evaluation in RCTs. From its initial proposal the limitations of Mendelian randomization approaches have been widely recognised and discussed, and recently Pickrell has reiterated these1. However this critique did not acknowledge recent developments in both methodological and empirical research, nor did it recognise many future opportunities for application of the Mendelian randomization approach. These issues are briefly reviewed here.', u'We report on an experiment and calculations that determine the thermal motion of a voltage-clamped ssDNA-NeutrAvidin complex in an MspA nanopore. The electric force and diffusion constant of DNA inside an MspA pore have been determined in order to evaluate DNA\u2019s thermal position fluctuations. We show that an out-of-equilibrium state returns to equilibrium so quickly that experiments usually measure a weighted average over the equilibrium position distribution. Averaging over the equilibrium position distribution is consistent with results of state-of-the-art nanopore sequencing experiments. It is shown that a reduction in thermal averaging can be achieved by increasing the electrophoretic force used in nanopore sequencing devices.', u'Current sequencing of mRNA can provide estimates of the levels of individual isoforms within the cell, where isoforms are the different distinct mRNA products or proteins created by a gene. It remains to adapt many standard statistical methods commonly used for analyzing gene expression levels to take advantage of this additional information. One novel question is whether we can find groupings or clusters of samples that are distinguished not by their gene expression but by their isoform usage. Such clusters in tumors, for example, could be the result of shared disruption to the splicing system that creates the different isoforms. We propose a novel approach to clustering mRNA-Seq data that identifies clusters of samples with common isoform usage. We show via simulation that our methods are more sensitive to finding clusters of similar alternative splicing patterns than standard clustering techniques applied directly to the estimates of isoform levels. We further demonstrate that clustering on isoform usage is more accurate than clustering directly on isoform levels by examining real data that contains a technical artifact that resulted in  different batches having different isoform usage patterns.', u'In the beginning of the last century immunologists discovered that increasing the concentration of antibody does not always increase the binding of antigen. On the contrary, at a high enough concentration range the amount of antibody-antigen complexes decreased. This phenomenon was later referred to as the "prozone effect" or the "high-dose hook effect" and seemed to exist in many multivalent proteins. In a later study it was discovered that allosterically regulated proteins are less susceptible to this effect. Our aim is to investigate the mathematical basis of how allostery mitigates the prozone effect.', u"We present here a fast and flexible software\u2013SimPhy\u2013for the simulation of multiple gene families evolving under incomplete lineage sorting, gene duplication and loss, horizontal gene transfer\u2014all three potentially leading to the species tree/gene tree discordance\u2014and gene conversion. SimPhy implements a hierarchical phylogenetic model in which the evolution of species, locus and gene trees is governed by global and local parameters (e.g., genome-wide, species-specific, locus-specific), that can be fixed or be sampled from a priori statistical distributions. SimPhy also incorporates comprehensive models of substitution rate variation among lineages (uncorrelated relaxed clocks) and the capability of simulating partitioned nucleotide, codon and protein multilocus sequence alignments under a plethora of substitution models using the program INDELible. We validate SimPhy's output using theoretical expectations and other programs, and show that it scales extremely well with complex models and/or large trees, being an order of magnitude faster than the most similar program (DLCoal-Sim). In addition, we demonstrate how SimPhy can be useful to understand interactions among different evolutionary processes, conducting a simulation study to characterize the systematic overestimation of the duplication time when using standard reconciliation methods. SimPhy is available at https://github.com/adamallo/SimPhy, where users can find the source code, pre-compiled executables, a detailed manual and example cases.", u'Organismal stoichiometry refers to the relative proportion of chemical elements in the biomass of organisms, and it can have important effects on ecological interactions from population to ecosystem scales. Although stoichiometry has been studied extensively from an ecological perspective, little is known about rates and directions of evolutionary changes in elemental composition in response to nutrient limitation. We measured carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus content of Escherichia coli evolved under controlled carbon-limited conditions for 50,000 generations. The bacteria evolved higher relative nitrogen and phosphorus content, consistent with selection for increased use of the more abundant elements. Total carbon assimilated also increased, indicating more efficient use of the limiting element. Altogether, our study shows that stoichiometry evolved over a relatively short time-period, and that it did so in a predictable direction given the carbon-limiting environment.', u'During cell division chromosomes are compacted in length by more than a hundred-fold. A wide range of experiments demonstrated that in their compacted state, mammalian chromosomes form arrays of closely stacked consecutive ~100Kb loops. The mechanism underlying the active process of chromosome compaction into a stack of loops is unknown. Here we test the hypothesis that chromosomes are compacted by enzymatic machines that actively extrude chromatin loops. When such loop-extruding factors (LEF) bind to chromosomes, they progressively bridge sites that are further away along the chromosome, thus extruding a loop. We demonstrate that collective action of LEFs leads to formation of a dynamic array of consecutive loops. Simulations and an analytically solved model identify two distinct steady states: a sparse state where loops are highly dynamic but provide little compaction, and a dense state with more stable loops and dramatic chromosome compaction. We find that human chromosomes operate at the border of the dense steady state. Our analysis also shows how the macroscopic characteristics of the loop array are determined by the microscopic properties of LEFs and their abundance. When number of LEFs are used that match experimentally based estimates, the model can quantitatively reproduce the average loop length, the degree of compaction, and the general loop-array morphology of compact human chromosomes. Our study demonstrates that efficient chromosome compaction can be achieved solely by an active loop-extrusion process.', u'The drug 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, ?ecstasy?, ?molly?) is a widely used illicit drug and experimental adjunct to psychotherapy.  MDMA has unusual, poorly understood socioemotional effects, including feelings of interpersonal closeness and sociability. To better understand these effects, we conducted a within-subjects double-blind placebo controlled study of the effects of 1.5 mg/kg oral MDMA on social emotions and autobiographical disclosure in a controlled setting. MDMA displayed both sedative- and stimulant-like effects, including increased self-report anxiety.  At the same time, MDMA positively altered evaluation of the self (i.e., increasing feelings of authenticity) while decreasing concerns about negative evaluation by others (i.e., decreasing social anxiety).  Consistent with these feelings, MDMA increased how comfortable participants felt describing emotional memories.  Overall, MDMA produced a prosocial syndrome that seemed to facilitate emotional disclosure and that appears consistent with the suggestion that it represents a novel pharmacological class.', u'A recent genomic characterization of more than $200$ Plasmodium falciparum samples isolated from the bloodstreams of clinical patients across three continents further supports the presence of significant strain mixture within infections. Consistent with previous studies, these data suggest that the degree of genetic strain admixture within infections varies significantly both within and across populations. The life cycle of the parasite implies that the mixture of multiple genotypes within an infected individual controls the outcrossing rate across populations, making methods for measuring this process in situ central to understanding the genetic epidemiology of the disease. Peculiar features of the P. falciparum genome mean that standard methods for assessing structure within a population -- inbreeding coefficients and related $F$-statistics -- cannot be used directly. Here we review an initial effort to estimate the degree of mixture within clinical isolates of P. falciparum using these statistics, and provide several generalizations using both frequentist and Bayesian approaches. Using the Bayesian approach, based on the Balding-Nichols model, we provide estimates of inbreeding coefficients for 168 samples from northern Ghana and find significant admixture in more than 70% of samples, and characterize the model fit using posterior predictive checks. We also compare this approach to a recently introduced mixture model and find that for a significant minority of samples the F-statistic-based approach provides a significantly better explanation for the data. We show how to extend this model to a multi-level testing framework that can integrate other data types and use it to demonstrate that transmission intensity significantly associates with degree of structure of within-sample mixture in northern Ghana.', u'TransRate is a tool for reference-free quality assessment of de novo transcriptome assemblies. Using only sequenced reads as the input, TransRate measures the quality of individual contigs and whole assemblies, enabling assembly optimization and comparison. TransRate can accurately evaluate assemblies of conserved and novel RNA molecules of any kind in any species. We show that it is more accurate than comparable methods and demonstrate its use on a variety of data.', u'In cancer, mitochondrial dysfunction, through mutations, deletions, and changes in copy number of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), contributes to the malignant transformation and progression of tumors. Here, we report the first large-scale survey of mtDNA copy number variation across 21 distinct solid tumor types, examining over 13,000 tissue samples profiled with next-generation sequencing methods. We find a tendency for cancers, especially of the bladder and kidney, to be significantly depleted of mtDNA, relative to matched normal tissue. We show that mtDNA copy number is correlated to the expression of mitochondrially-localized metabolic pathways, suggesting that mtDNA copy number variation reflect gross changes in mitochondrial metabolic activity. Finally, we identify a subset of tumor-type-specific somatic alterations, including IDH1 and NF1 mutations in gliomas, whose incidence is strongly correlated to mtDNA copy number. Our findings suggest that modulation of mtDNA copy number may play a role in the pathology of cancer.', u'Altered chromatin structure is a hallmark of cancer, and inappropriate regulation of chromatin structure may represent the origin of transformation. Important studies have mapped human nucleosome distributions genome wide, but the role of chromatin structure in cancer progression has not been addressed. We developed a MNase-Transcription Start Site Sequence Capture method (mTSS-seq) to map the nucleosome distribution at human transcription start sites genome-wide in primary human lung and colon adenocarcinoma tissue. Here, we confirm that nucleosome redistribution is an early, widespread event in lung (LAC) and colon (CRC) adenocarcinoma. These altered nucleosome architectures are consistent between LAC and CRC patient samples indicating that they may serve as important early adenocarcinoma markers. We demonstrate that the nucleosome alterations are driven by the underlying DNA sequence and potentiate transcription factor binding. We conclude that DNA-directed nucleosome redistributions are widespread early in cancer progression. We have proposed an entirely new hierarchical model for chromatin-mediated genome regulation.', u"It is known that rates of mutation and recombination vary across the genome in many species. Here we investigate whether these factors affect the rate at which genes undergo adaptive evolution both individually and in combination and quantify the degree to which Hill-Robertson interference (HRi) impedes the rate of adaptive evolution. To do this we compiled a dataset of 6,141 autosomal protein coding genes from Drosophila, for which we have polymorphism data from D. melanogaster and divergence out to D. yakuba. We estimated the rate of adaptive evolution using a derivative of the McDonald-Kreitman test that controls for the slightly deleterious mutations. We find that the rate of adaptive amino acid substitution is positively correlated to both the rates of recombination and mutation. We also find that these correlations are robust to controlling for each other, synonymous codon bias and gene functions related to immune response and testes. We estimate that HRi reduces the rate of adaptive evolution by ~27%. We also show that this fraction depends on a gene's mutation rate; genes with low mutation rates lose ~11% of their adaptive substitutions while genes with high mutation rates lose ~43%. In conclusion, we show that the mutation rate and the rate of recombination, are important modifiers of the rate of adaptive evolution in Drosophila.", u'Predictions from theory, field data, and experiments have shown that high landscape connectivity\npromotes higher species richness than low connectivity. However, examples demonstrating\nhigh diversity in low connected landscapes also exist. Here we describe the many factors that\ndrive landscape connectivity at different spatiotemporal scales by varying the amplitude and\nfrequency of changes in the dispersal radius of spatial networks. We found that the fluctuations\nof landscape connectivity support metacommunities with higher species richness than static\nlandscapes. Our results also show a dispersal radius threshold below which species richness\ndrops dramatically in static landscapes. Such a threshold is not observed in dynamic landscapes\nfor a broad range of amplitude and frequency values determining landscape connectivity. We\nconclude that merging amplitude and frequency as drivers of landscape connectivity together\nwith patch dynamics into metacommunity theory can provide new testable predictions about\nspecies diversity in rapidly changing landscapes.', u'Small RNAs have been determined to have an essential role in gene regulation. However, competition between small RNAs is a poorly understood aspect of small RNA dynamics. Recent evidence has suggested that competition between small RNA pathways arises from a scarcity of common resources essential for small RNA activity. In order to understand how competition affects small RNAs in C. elegans, a system of differential equations was used. The model recreates normal behavior of small RNAs and uses random sampling in order to determine the coefficients of competition for each small RNA class. The model includes endogenous small-interfering RNAs (endo-siRNA), exogenous small-interfering RNAs (exo-siRNA), and microRNAs (miRNA). The model predicts that exo-siRNAs is dominated by competition between endo-siRNAs and miRNAs. Furthermore, the model predicts that competition is required for normal levels of endogenous small RNAs to be maintained. Although the model makes several assumptions about cell dynamics, the model is still useful in order to understand competition between small RNA pathways.', u'Small RNAs have a wide range of functions and recent studies have found connections between these molecules and aging pathways. However, the process to systematically characterize this relationship is slow. Prediction tools can be used to expedite this process by finding new genes and pathways that cross talk with each other. Using phylogenetic and systems analysis, connections between small RNAs and aging were proven and new genes that may be related to aging were identified. This type of analysis can be applied to many different pathways in order to fully characterize the role of small RNAs.', u'The CRISPR/Cas9 system provides unprecedented genome editing capabilities; however, several facets of this system are under investigation for further characterization and optimization, including the choice of guide RNA that directs Cas9 to target DNA. In particular, given that one would like to target the protein-coding region of a gene, hundreds of guides satisfy the basic constraints of the CRISPR/Cas9 Protospacer Adjacent Motif sequence (PAM); however, not all of these guides actually generate gene knockouts with equal efficiency. Leveraging a broad set of experimental measurements of guide knockout efficiency, we introduce a state-of-the art in silico modeling approach to identify guides that will lead to more effective gene knockout. We first investigated which guide and gene features are critical for prediction (e.g., single- and di-nucleotide identity of the gene target), which are helpful (e.g., thermodynamics), and which are predictive but redundant (e.g., microhomology). We also investigated evaluation measures for comparing predictive models in the present context, suggesting that Area Under the Receiver Operating Curve is not ideal. Finally, we explored a variety of different model classes and found that use of gradient-boosted regression trees produced the best predictive performance. Pointers to our open-source software, code, and prediction server will be available at http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/projects/azimuth.', u"The advent of cost-effective DNA sequencing has provided clinics with high-resolution information about patients' genetic variants, which has resulted in the need for efficient interpretation of this genomic data. Traditionally, variant interpretation has been dominated by many manual, time-consuming processes due to the disparate forms of relevant information in clinical databases and literature. Computational techniques promise to automate much of this, and while they currently play only a supporting role, their continued improvement for variant interpretation is necessary to tackle the problem of scaling genetic sequencing to ever larger populations. Here, we present SSCM-Pathogenic, a genome-wide, allele-specific score for predicting variant pathogenicity. The score, generated by a semi-supervised clustering algorithm, shows predictive power on clinically relevant mutations, while also displaying predictive ability in noncoding regions of the genome.", u'We present a novel algorithm for the design of crossing experiments. The algorithm identifies a set of individuals (a ?crossing-set?) from a larger pool of potential crossing-sets by maximizing the diversity of traits of interest, for example, maximizing the range of genetic and geographic distances between individuals included in the crossing-set. To calculate diversity, we use the mean nearest neighbor distance of crosses plotted in trait space. We implement our algorithm on a real dataset of Neurospora crassa strains, using the genetic and geographic distances between potential crosses as a two-dimensional trait space. In simulated mating experiments, crossing-sets selected by our algorithm provide better estimates of underlying parameter values than randomly chosen crossing-sets.', u'Macrophages differentiated from human induced pluripotent stem cells (IPSDMs) are a potentially valuable new tool for linking genotype to phenotype in functional studies. However, at a genome-wide level these cells have remained largely uncharacterised. Here, we compared the transcriptomes of na\xefve and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulated monocyte-derived macrophages (MDMs) and IPSDMs using RNA-Seq. The IPSDM and MDM transcriptomes were broadly similar and exhibited a highly conserved response to LPS. However, there were also significant differences in the expression of genes associated with antigen presentation and tissue remodelling. Furthermore, genes coding for multiple chemokine involved in neutrophil recruitment were more highly expressed in IPSDMs upon LPS stimulation. Additionally, analysing individual transcript expression identified hundreds of genes undergoing alternative promoter and 3\u2032 untranslated region usage following LPS treatment representing a previously under-appreciated level of regulation in the LPS response.', u'Epistasis plays a significant role in the genetic architecture of many complex phenotypes in model organisms. To date, there have been very few interactions replicated in human studies due in part to the multiple hypothesis burden implicit in genome-wide tests of epistasis. Therefore, it is of paramount importance to develop the most powerful  tests possible for detecting interactions. In this work we develop a new gene-gene interaction test for use in trio studies called the trio correlation (TC) test. The TC test computes the expected joint distribution of marker pairs in offspring conditional on parental genotypes. This distribution is then incorporated into a standard one degree of freedom correlation test of interaction.  We show via extensive simulations that our test substantially outperforms existing tests of interaction in trio studies. The gain in power under standard models of phenotype is large, with previous tests requiring more than twice the number of trios to obtain the power of our test. We also demonstrate a bias in a previous trio interaction test and identify its origin. We conclude that the TC test shows improved power to identify interactions in existing, as well as emerging, trio association studies. The method is publicly available at www.github.com/BrunildaBalliu/TrioEpi.', u'The recently developed \u2018two-step\u2019 behavioural task promises to differentiate model-based or goal-directed from model-free or habitual reinforcement learning, while generating neurophysiologically-friendly decision datasets with parametric variation of decision variables. These desirable features have prompted widespread adoption of the task. However, the signatures of model-based control can be elusive \u2013 here, we investigate model-free learning methods that, depending on the analysis strategy, can masquerade as being model-based. We first show that unadorned model-free reinforcement learning can induce correlations between action values at the start of the trial and the subsequent trial events in such a way that analysis based on comparing successive trials can lead to erroneous conclusions. We also suggest a correction to the analysis that can alleviate this problem. We then consider model-free reinforcement learning strategies based on different state representations from those envisioned by the experimenter, which generate behaviour that appears model-based under these, and also more sophisticated, analyses. The existence of such strategies is of particular relevance to the design and interpretation of animal studies using the two-step task, as extended training and a sharp contrast between good and bad options are likely to promote their use.', u'The development and evolution of complex neocortical organisations is thought to result from the interaction of genetic and activity-dependent processes. Here we propose that a third type of process \u2013 mechanical morphogenesis \u2013 may also play an important role. We review recent theoretical and experimental results in non-linear physics showing how homogeneous growth can produce a rich variety of forms, in particular neocortical folding. The mechanical instabilities that produce these forms also induce heterogeneous patterns of stress at the scale of the organ. We review the evidence showing how these stresses can influence cell proliferation, migration and apoptosis, cell differentiation and shape, migration and axonal guidance, and could thus be able to influence regional neocortical identity and connectivity.', u'Frequency dependent selection and demographic fluctuations play important roles in evolutionary and ecological processes. Under frequency dependent selection, the average fitness of the population may increase or decrease based on interactions between individuals within the population. This should be reflected in fluctuations of the population size even in constant environments. Here, we propose a stochastic model, which naturally combines these two evolutionary ingredients by assuming frequency dependent competition between different types in an individual-based model. In contrast to previous game theoretic models, the carrying capacity of the population and thus the population size is determined by pairwise competition of individuals mediated by evolutionary games and demographic stochasticity. In the limit of infinite population size, the averaged stochastic dynamics is captured by the deterministic competitive Lotka-Volterra equations. In small populations, demographic stochasticity may instead lead to the extinction of the entire population. As the population size is driven by the fitness in evolutionary games, a population of cooperators is less prone to go extinct than a population of defectors, whereas in the usual systems of fixed size, the population would thrive regardless of its average payoff.', u'Transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulation shape tissue-type-specific proteomes, but their relative contributions remain contested. Estimates of the factors determining protein levels in human tissues do not distinguish between (i) the factors determining the variability between the abundances of different proteins and (ii) the factors determining the physiological variability of the same protein across different tissue types. We estimated the factors determining these two orthogonal sources of variability and found that mRNA levels can account for most of the variability between the levels of different proteins but not for the protein variability across tissue-types. After accounting for measurement noise, most of the across-tissue protein variability remains unexplained by mRNA levels, suggesting extensive post-transcriptional regulation. These results reconcile existing estimates in the literature, caution against estimating protein fold-changes from mRNA fold-changes between different cell-types, and highlight the contribution of post-transcriptional regulation in shaping tissue-type-specific proteomes.', u'The prevalence of sequencing experiments in genomics has led to an increased use of methods for count data in analyzing high-throughput genomic data to perform analyses. The importance of shrinkage methods in improving the performance of statistical methods remains. A common example is that of gene expression data, where the counts per gene are often modeled as some form of an over-dispersed Poisson. In this case, shrinkage estimates of the per-gene dispersion parameter have led to improved estimation of dispersion in the case of a small number of samples.\n\nWe address a different count setting introduced by the use of sequencing data: comparing differential proportional usage via an over-dispersed binomial model. This is motivated by our interest in testing for differential exon skipping in mRNA-Seq experiments. We introduce a novel method that is developed by modeling the dispersion based on the double binomial distribution proposed by Efron (1986). Our method (WEB-Seq) is an empirical bayes strategy for producing a shrunken estimate of dispersion and effectively detects differential proportional usage, and has close ties to the weighted-likelihood strategy of edgeR developed for gene expression data (Robinson and Smyth, 2007; Robinson et al., 2010). We analyze its behavior on simulated data sets as well as real data and show that our method is fast, powerful and gives accurate control of the FDR compared to alternative approaches. We provide implementation of our methods in the R package DoubleExpSeq available on CRAN.', u"Oxford Nanopore Technologies' nanopore sequencing device, the MinION, holds the promise of sequencing ultra-long DNA fragments >100kb. An obstacle to realizing this promise is delivering ultra-long DNA molecules to the nanopores. We present our progress in developing cost-effective ways to overcome this obstacle and our resulting MinION data, including multiple reads >100kb.", u'Current statistical biogeographical analysis methods are limited in the ways ecology can be related to the processes of diversification and geographical range evolution, requiring conflation of geography and ecology, and/or assuming ecologies that are uniform across all lineages and invariant in time. This precludes the possibility of studying a broad class of macro-evolutionary biogeographical theories that relate geographical and species histories through iineage-specific ecological and evolutionary dynamics, such as taxon cycle theory. Here we present a new model that generates phylogenies under a complex of superpositioned geographical range evolution, trait evolution, and diversification processes that can communicate with each other.This means that, under our model, the diversification and transition of the states of a lineage through geographical space is separate from, yet is conditional on, the state of the lineage in trait space (or vice versa). We present a likelihood-free method of inference under our model using discriminant analysis of principal components of summary statistics calculated on phylogenies, with the discriminant functions trained on data generated by simulations under our model. This approach of model classification is shown to be efficient, robust, and performant over a broad range of parameter space defined by the relative rates of dispersal, trait evolution, and diversification processes. We apply our method to a case study of the taxon cycle, i.e. testing for habitat and trophic-level constraints in the dispersal regimes of the Wallacean avifaunal radiation.', u'Many models proposed to study the evolution of collective action rely on a formalism that represents social interactions as n-player games between individuals adopting discrete actions such as cooperate and defect. Despite the importance of spatial structure in biological collective action, the analysis of n-player games games in spatially structured populations has so far proved elusive. We address this problem by considering mixed strategies and by integrating discrete-action n-player games into the direct fitness approach of social evolution theory. This allows to conveniently identify convergence stable strategies and to capture the effect of population structure by a single structure coefficient, namely, the pairwise (scaled) relatedness among interacting individuals. As an application, we use our mathematical framework to investigate collective action problems associated with the provision of three different kinds of collective goods, paradigmatic of a vast array of helping traits in nature: \u201cpublic goods\u201d (both providers and shirkers can use the good, e.g., alarm calls), \u201cclub goods\u201d (only providers can use the good, e.g., participation in collective hunting), and \u201ccharity goods\u201d (only shirkers can use the good, e.g., altruistic sacrifice). We show that relatedness promotes the evolution of collective action in different ways depending on the kind of collective good and its economies of scale. Our findings highlight the importance of explicitly accounting for relatedness, the kind of collective good, and the economies of scale in theoretical and empirical studies of the evolution of collective action.', u'Mammalian grid cells fire whenever an animal crosses the points of an imaginary,\n hexagonal grid tessellating the environment. Here, we show how animals can localize\n themselves and navigate by reading-out a simple population vector of grid cell activity\n across multiple scales, even though this activity is intrinsically stochastic. This theory of dead reckoning explains why grid cells are organized into modules with equal\n lattice scale and orientation. Computing the homing vector is least error-prone when\n the ratio of successive grid scales is around 3/2. Silencing intermediate-scale modules\n should cause systematic errors in navigation, while knocking out the module at the\n smallest scale will only affect navigational precision. Read-out neurons should behave\n like goal-vector cells subject to nonlinear gain fields.', u'Individuals with dyslipidemia often develop type 2 diabetes, and diabetic patients often have dyslipidemia.  It remains to be determined whether there are genetic connections between the 2 disorders.  A female F2 cohort, generated from BALB/cJ (BALB) and SM/J (SM) Apoe-deficient (Apoe\u2212/\u2212) strains, was fed a Western diet for 12 weeks.  Fasting plasma glucose and lipid levels were measured before and after Western diet feeding.  144 genetic markers across the entire genome were used for analysis.  One significant QTL on chromosome 9, named Bglu17 [26.4 cM, logarithm of odds ratio (LOD): 5.4], and 3 suggestive QTLs were identified for fasting glucose levels.  The suggestive QTL near the proximal end of chromosome 9 (2.4 cM, LOD: 3.12) was detected when mice were fed chow or Western diet and named Bglu16.  Bglu17 coincided with a significant QTL for HDL and a suggestive QTL for non-HDL cholesterol levels.  Plasma glucose levels were inversely correlated with HDL but positively correlated with non-HDL cholesterol levels in F2 mice fed either diet.  A significant correlation between fasting glucose and triglyceride levels was observed on the Western but not chow diet.  Haplotype analysis revealed that ???lipid genes??? Sik3 and Apoc3 were probable candidates for Bglu17.  We have identified multiple QTLs for fasting glucose and lipid levels.  The colocalization of QTLs for both phenotypes and the sharing of potential causal genes suggest that dyslipidemia and type 2 diabetes are genetically connected.', u'The number of every enzyme is the result of many mechanisms of regulation, at transcriptional and translational levels. We asked if the presence of rare amino acids in the sequence of an enzyme could represent a limiting factor in the balance between enzymes synthesis and enzymes efficiency. To try to find a correlation we analyzed the amino acids sequences of different housekeeping and metabolic enzymes.', u'Human genes perform different functions and exhibit different effects on fitness in cancer and normal cell populations. Here, we present an evolutionary approach to measuring the selective pressure on human genes in cancer and normal cell genomes using the well-known dN/dS (nonsynonymous to synonymous substitution rate) ratio. We develop a new method called the mutation-profile-based Nei-Gojobori (mpNG) method, which applies sample-specific nucleotide substitution profiles instead of conventional substitution models to calculating dN/dS ratios in cancer and normal populations. Using 7,042 exome sequences from tumor-normal pairs, and germline variations from 6,500 exome sequences (ESP6500) as references, we found a significant relaxation of selective constraint for human genes in cancer cells. Compared with previous studies that focused on positively selected genes in cancer genomes, which potentially represent the driving force behind tumor initiation and development, we employed an alternative approach to identifying cancer constrained genes that strengthen negative selection pressure in tumor cells. As a conservative estimate of positively and negatively selected genes in cancer, we found 45 genes under intensified positive selection and 16 genes under strengthened purifying selection in cancer cells compared with germline cells. The cancer-specific positively selected genes are enriched for cancer genes and human essential genes, while several cancer-specific negatively selected genes have been reported as prognostic biomarkers for cancers. Therefore, our computation pipeline used to identify cancer positively and negatively genes may provide useful information for understanding the evolution of cancer somatic mutations.', u'The influence of resource availability on planktonic and biofilm microbial community membership is poorly understood. Heterotrophic bacteria derive some to all of their organic carbon (C) from photoautotrophs while simultaneously competing with photoautotrophs for inorganic nutrients such as phosphorus (P) or nitrogen (N). Therefore, C inputs have the potential to shift the competitive balance of aquatic microbial communities by increasing the resource space available to heterotrophs (more C) while decreasing the resource space available to photoautotrophs (less mineral nutrients due to increased competition from heterotrophs). To test how resource dynamics affect membership of planktonic communities and assembly of biofilm communities we amended a series of flow-through mesocosms with C to alter the availability of C among treatments. Each mesocosm was fed with unfiltered seawater and incubated with sterilized microscope slides as surfaces for biofilm formation. The highest C treatment had the highest planktonic heterotroph abundance, lowest planktonic photoautotroph abundance, and highest biofilm biomass. We surveyed bacterial 16S rRNA genes and plastid 23S rRNA genes to characterize biofilm and planktonic community membership and structure. Regardless of resource additions, biofilm communities had higher alpha diversity than planktonic communities in all mesocosms. Heterotrophic plankton communities were distinct from heterotrophic biofilm communities in all but the highest C treatment where heterotrophic plankton and biofilm communities resembled each other after 17 days. Unlike the heterotrophs, photoautotrophic plankton communities were different than photoautotrophic biofilm communities in composition in all treatments including the highest C treatment. Our results suggest that although resource amendments affect community membership and structure, microbial lifestyle (biofilm versus planktonic) has a stronger influence on community composition.', u'Estimates of carbon flux to the deep oceans are essential for our understanding for global carbon budgets. We identify an important mechanism, the lipid pump, that has been unrecorded in previous estimates. The seasonal lipid pump is highly efficient in sequestering carbon in the deep ocean. It involves the vertical transport and respiration of carbon rich compounds (lipids) by hibernating zooplankton. Estimates for one species, the copepod Calanus finmarchicus overwintering in the North Atlantic, sequester around the same amount of carbon as does the flux of detrital material that is usually thought of as the main component of the biological pump. The efficiency of the lipid pump derives from a near complete decoupling between nutrient and carbon cycling and directly transports carbon through the meso-pelagic with very little attenuation to below the permanent thermocline. Consequently the seasonal transport of lipids by migrating zooplankton is overlooked in estimates of deep ocean carbon sequestration by the biological pump.', u'Many fundamental questions in evolutionary biology entail estimating rates of lineage diversification (speciation\u2013extinction). We develop a flexible Bayesian framework for specifying an effectively infinite array of diversification models\u2014where rates are constant, vary continuously, or change episodically through time\u2014and implement numerical methods to estimate parameters of these models from molecular phylogenies, even when species sampling is incomplete. Additionally we provide robust methods for comparing the relative and absolute fit of competing branching-process models to a given tree, thereby providing rigorous tests of biological hypotheses regarding patterns and processes of lineage diversification.', u'Background\nGathering genomic-scale data efficiently is challenging for non-model species with large, complex genomes. Transcriptome sequencing is accessible for even large-genome organisms, and sequence capture probes can be designed from such mRNA sequences to enrich and sequence exonic regions. Maximizing enrichment efficiency is important to reduce sequencing costs, but, relatively little data exist for exon capture experiments in large-genome non-model organisms. Here, we conducted a replicated factorial experiment to explore the effects of several modifications to standard protocols that might increase sequence capture efficiency for large-genome amphibians.\n\nMethods\nWe enriched 53 genomic libraries from salamanders for a custom set of 8,706 exons under differing conditions. Libraries were prepared using pools of DNA from 3 different salamanders with approximately 30 gigabase genomes: California tiger salamander (Ambystoma californiense), barred tiger salamander (Ambystoma mavortium), and an F1 hybrid between the two. We enriched libraries using different amounts of c0t-1 blocker, individual input DNA, and total reaction DNA. Enriched libraries were sequenced with 150 bp paired-end reads on an Illumina HiSeq 2500, and the efficiency of target enrichment was quantified using unique read mapping rates and average depth across targets. The different enrichment treatments were evaluated to determine if c0t-1 and input DNA significantly impact enrichment efficiency in large-genome amphibians.\n\nResults\nIncreasing the amounts of c0t-1 and individual input DNA both reduce the rates of PCR duplication. This reduction led to an increase in the percentage of unique reads mapping to target sequences, essentially doubling overall efficiency of the target capture from 10.4% to nearly 19.9%. We also found that post-enrichment DNA concentrations and qPCR enrichment verification were useful for predicting the success of enrichment.\n\nConclusions\nIncreasing the amount of individual sample input DNA and the amount of c0t-1 blocker both increased the efficiency of target capture in large-genome salamanders. By reducing PCR duplication rates, the number of unique reads mapping to targets increased, making target capture experiments more efficient and affordable. Our results indicate that target capture protocols can be modified to efficiently screen large-genome vertebrate taxa including amphibians.', u'Advances in high-throughput sequencing (HTS) have allowed researchers to obtain large amounts of biological sequence information at speeds and costs unimaginable only a decade ago. Phylogenetics, and the study of evolution in general, is quickly migrating towards using HTS to generate larger and more complex molecular datasets. In this paper, we present a method that utilizes microfluidic PCR and HTS to generate large amounts of sequence data suitable for phylogenetic analyses. The approach uses a Fluidigm microfluidic PCR array and two sets of PCR primers to simultaneously amplify 48 target regions across 48 samples, incorporating sample-specific barcodes and HTS adapters (2,304 unique amplicons per microfluidic array). The final product is a pooled set of amplicons ready to be sequenced, and thus, there is no need to construct separate, costly genomic libraries for each sample. Further, we present a bioinformatics pipeline to process the raw HTS reads to either generate consensus sequences (with or without ambiguities) for every locus in every sample or\u2014more importantly\u2014recover the separate alleles from heterozygous target regions in each sample. This is important because it adds allelic information that is well suited for coalescent-based phylogenetic analyses that are becoming very common in conservation and evolutionary biology. To test our subgenomic method and bioinformatics pipeline, we sequenced 576 samples across 96 target regions belonging to the South American clade of the genus Bartsia L. in the plant family Orobanchaceae. After sequencing cleanup and alignment, the experiment resulted in ~25,300bp across 486 samples for a set of 48 primer pairs targeting the plastome, and ~13,500bp for 363 samples for a set of primers targeting regions in the nuclear genome. Finally, we constructed a combined concatenated matrix from all 96 primer combinations, resulting in a combined aligned length of ~40,500bp for 349 samples.', u'The large amount and high quality of genomic data available today enables, in principle, accurate inference of evolutionary history of observed populations. The Wright-Fisher model is one of the most widely used models for this purpose. It describes the stochastic behavior in time of allele frequencies and the influence of evolutionary pressures, such as mutation and selection. Despite its simple mathematical formulation, exact results for the distribution of allele frequency (DAF) as a function of time are not available in closed analytic form. Existing approximations build on the computationally intensive diffusion limit, or rely on matching moments of the DAF. One of the moment-based approximations relies on the beta distribution, which can accurately describe the DAF when the allele frequency is not close to the boundaries (zero and one). Nonetheless, under a Wright-Fisher model, the probability of being on the boundary can be positive, corresponding to the allele being either lost or fixed. Here, we introduce the beta with spikes, an extension of the beta approximation, which explicitly models the loss and fixation probabilities as two spikes at the boundaries. We show that the addition of spikes greatly improves the quality of the approximation. We additionally illustrate, using both simulated and real data, how the beta with spikes can be used for inference of divergence times between populations, with comparable performance to existing state-of-the-art method.', u'Our   method for ``Time to most recent common ancestor\'\' TMRCA of genetic trees for the first time deals with natural selection \nby apriori mathematics  and not as a random factor.  Bioprocesses such as ``kin selection\'\' generate a few overrepresented   ``singular lineages\'\' while  almost  all other lineages  terminate.  This  non-uniform branching    gives    greatly exaggerated  TMRCA  with current methods.    Thus we introduce an  inhomogenous  stochastic  process   which will detect singular lineages by asymmetries, whose   ``reduction\'\' then gives  true  TMRCA.   Reduction   implies younger   TMRCA,  with smaller errors.  This  gives a new  phylogenetic  method for  computing mutation rates,   with results similar to ``pedigree\'\' (meiosis) data.   Despite    these low rates,     reduction   implies younger    TMRCA,  with smaller errors. We establish accuracy  by a comparison  across a wide range of time,\nindeed this  is only y-clock  giving consistent results for 500-15,000 ybp.   In particular \nwe show that the dominant European y-haplotypes R1a1a   $\\& $ R1b1a2, expand from  c3700BC, not reaching Anatolia before c3300BC.  This   contradicts  current clocks  dating  R1b1a2 to  either the Neolithic  Near East or  Paleo-Europe. However our dates  match  R1a1a   $\\& $ R1b1a2  found in Yamnaya cemetaries of c3300BC by Svante  P\\"{a}\\"{a}bo et al, together proving  R1a1a   $\\& $ R1b1a2 originates in the  Russian Steppes.', u"The spatiotemporal distribution of recent human adaptation is a long standing question. We developed a new coalescent-based method that collectively assigned human genome regions to modes of neutrality or to positive, negative, or balancing selection. Most importantly, the selection times were estimated for all positive selection signals, which ranged over the last half million years, penetrating the emergence of anatomically modern human (AMH). These selection time estimates were further supported by analyses of the genome sequences from three ancient AMHs and the Neanderthals. A series of brain function-related genes were found to carry signals of ancient selective sweeps, which may have defined the evolution of cognitive abilities either before Neanderthal divergence or during the emergence of AMH. Particularly, signals of brain evolution in AMH are strongly related to Alzheimer's disease pathways. In conclusion, this study reports a chronological atlas of natural selection in Human.", u'Hi-Cpipe is a bioinformatics pipeline for the automated analysis of data generated by high-throughput chromatin conformation capture (HiC). The analysis workflow comprises steps of data formatting, genome alignment, quality control and filtering, identification of genome-wide chromatin interactions, visualization and statistics. An interactive browser enables visual inspection of interaction data and results.', u'Drosophila melanogaster is a valuable invertebrate model for viral infection and antiviral immunity, and is a focus for studies of insect-virus coevolution. Here we use a metagenomic approach to identify more than 20 previously undetected RNA viruses and a DNA virus associated with wild D. melanogaster. These viruses not only include distant relatives of known insect pathogens, but also novel groups of insect-infecting viruses. By sequencing virus-derived small RNAs we show that the viruses represent active infections of Drosophila. We find that the RNA viruses differ in the number and properties of their small RNAs, and we detect both siRNAs and a novel miRNA from the DNA virus. Analysis of small RNAs also allows us to identify putative viral sequences that lack detectable sequence similarity to known viruses. By surveying >2000 individually collected wild adult Drosophila we show that more than 30% of D. melanogaster carry a detectable virus, and more than 6% carry multiple viruses. However, despite a high prevalence of the Wolbachia endosymbiont\u2014which is known to be protective against virus infections in Drosophila\u2014we were unable to detect any relationship between the presence of Wolbachia and the presence of any virus. Using publicly available RNA-seq datasets we show that the community of viruses in Drosophila laboratories is very different from that seen in the wild, but that some of the newly discovered viruses are nevertheless widespread in laboratory lines and are ubiquitous in cell culture. By sequencing viruses from individual wild-collected flies we show that some viruses are shared between D. melanogaster and D. simulans. Our results provide an essential evolutionary and ecological context for host-virus interaction in Drosophila, and the newly reported viral sequences will help develop D. melanogaster further as a model for molecular and evolutionary virus research.', u"The CRISPR/Cas9 system is an efficient technique for generating targeted alterations in an organism's genome. Here we describe a methodology for using the CRISPR/Cas9 system to generate mutations via non-homologous end joining in the nematode Caenorhabditis briggsae, a sister species of C. elegans. Evidence for somatic mutations and off-target mutations are also reported. The use of the CRISPR/Cas9 system in C. briggsae will greatly facilitate comparative studies to C. elegans.", u'Hyponatremia is a serious complication of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) use. We investigated potential mechanisms in two double-blind, placebo- controlled studies. In study 1, healthy drug-experienced volunteers received MDMA or placebo alone and in combination with the alpha-1 adrenergic inverse agonist prazosin, used as a positive control to release antidiuretic hormone (ADH). In study 2, volunteers received MDMA or placebo followed by standardized water intake. MDMA lowered serum sodium, but did not increase ADH or copeptin, although the control prazosin did increase ADH. Water loading reduced serum sodium more after MDMA than after placebo. There was a trend for women to have lower baseline serum sodium than men, but there were no significant interactions with drug condition. Combining studies, MDMA potentiated the ability of water to lower serum sodium. Thus, while MDMA lowers serum sodium and potentiates effects of water intake on serum sodium, ADH may not be the mechanism of these changes.', u'Purpose: PaxtoolsR package enables access to pathway data represented in the BioPAX format and made available through the Pathway Commons webservice for users of the R language. Features include the extraction, merging, and validation of pathway data represented in the BioPAX format. This package also provides novel pathway datasets and advanced querying features for R users through the Pathway Commons webservice allowing users to query, extract, and retrieve data and integrate this data with local BioPAX datasets. \nAvailability: The PaxtoolsR package is compatible with R 3.1.1 on Windows, Mac OS X, and Linux using Bioconductor 3.0 and is available through the Bioconductor R package repository along with source code and a tutorial vignette describing common tasks, such as data visualization and gene set enrichment analysis. Source code and documentation are at http://bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/html/paxtoolsr.html. This plugin is free, open-source and licensed under the GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL) v3.0.', u'When visualizing scientific data one of the current bottlenecks is the lack of interactivity. There already exist many options to build static data visualizations such as R, Matlab or Microsoft Excel among others. On the other hand, we can also find many different pieces of software with a broader or more specific aim that however must be installed locally. There is therefore a gap that is not covered by any of these latter two worlds. Here is where Biographika comes in handy since it provides scientists in general, and more specifically bioinformaticians, with a way of being able to use interactive rich visualizations on the web as part of their daily research. This first version of Biographika includes a set of charts combining diverse approaches that are thought to give users different perspectives of their research data. For the sake of interoperability and expressivity among other reasons we are using D3.js, the de facto standard visualization JavaScript library for manipulating documents based on data. But not only that, we incorporate new approaches as the fact of having fully interactive 3D charts that can be easily integrated with the rest of visualizations; providing the possibility of analyzing multidimensional data in a way that could otherwise be difficult to tackle. For that we use X3DOM, an open-source framework and runtime for 3D graphics on the Web that eases the integration of HTML5 and declarative 3D content. And last but not least, Biographika is also conceived as an effort to provide the data visualization layer for Bio4j that researchers have been lacking in the past few years.', u"Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified thousands of variants robustly associated with complex traits. However, the biological mechanisms underlying these associations are, in general, not well understood. We propose a gene-based association method called PrediXcan that directly tests the molecular mechanisms through which genetic variation affects phenotype. The approach estimates the component of gene expression determined by an individual's genetic profile and correlates the \u201cimputed\u201d gene expression with the phenotype under investigation to identify genes involved in the etiology of the phenotype. The genetically regulated gene expression is estimated using whole-genome tissue-dependent prediction models trained with reference transcriptome datasets. PrediXcan enjoys the benefits of gene- based approaches such as reduced multiple testing burden, more comprehensive annotation of gene function compared to that derived from single variants, and a principled approach to the design of follow-up experiments while also integrating knowledge of regulatory function. Since no actual expression data are used in the analysis of GWAS data - only in silico expression - reverse causality problems are largely avoided. PrediXcan harnesses reference transcriptome data for disease mapping studies. Our results demonstrate that PrediXcan can detect known and novel genes associated with disease traits and provide insights into the mechanism of these associations.", u'Evolution of a novel function can greatly alter the effects of an organism on its environment. These environmental changes can, in turn, affect the further evolution of that organism and any coexisting organisms. We examine these effects and feedbacks following evolution of a novel function in the long-term evolution experiment (LTEE) with Escherichia coli. A characteristic feature of E. coli is its inability to consume citrate aerobically. However, that ability evolved in one of the LTEE populations. In this population, citrate-utilizing bacteria (Cit+) coexisted stably with another clade of bacteria that lacked the capacity to utilize citrate (Cit\u2212). This coexistence was shaped by the evolution of a cross-feeding relationship in which Cit+ cells released the dicarboxylic acids succinate, fumarate, and malate into the medium, and Cit\u2212 cells evolved improved growth on these carbon sources, as did the Cit+ cells. Thus, the evolution of citrate consumption led to a flask-based ecosystem that went from a single limiting resource, glucose, to one with five resources either shared or partitioned between two coexisting clades. Our findings show how evolutionary novelties can change environmental conditions, thereby facilitating diversity and altering both the structure of an ecosystem and the evolutionary trajectories of coexisting organisms.', u'Intrinsic covariation of brain activity has been studied across many levels of brain organization. Between visual areas, neuronal activity covaries primarily among portions with similar retinotopic selectivity. We hypothesized that spontaneous inter-areal co-activation is subserved by neuronal synchronization. We performed simultaneous high-density electrocorticographic recordings across several visual areas in awake monkeys to investigate spatial patterns of local and inter-areal synchronization. We show that stimulation-induced patterns of inter-areal co-activation were reactivated in the absence of stimulation. Reactivation occurred through both, inter-areal co-fluctuation of local activity and inter-areal phase synchronization. Furthermore, the trial-by-trial covariance of the induced responses recapitulated the pattern of inter-areal coupling observed during stimulation, i.e. the signal correlation. Reactivation-related synchronization showed distinct peaks in the theta, alpha and gamma frequency bands. During passive states, this rhythmic reactivation was augmented by specific patterns of arrhythmic correspondence. These results suggest that networks of intrinsic covariation observed at multiple levels and with several recording techniques are related to synchronization and that behavioral state may affect the structure of intrinsic dynamics.', u'The rate at which human genomes mutate is a central biological parameter that has many implications for our ability to understand demographic and evolutionary phenomena. We present a method for inferring mutation and gene conversion rates using the number of sequence differences observed in identical-by-descent (IBD) segments together with a reconstructed model of recent population size history. This approach is robust to, and can quantify, the presence of substantial genotyping error, as validated in coalescent simulations. We applied the method to 498 trio-phased Dutch individuals from the Genome of the Netherlands (GoNL) project, sequenced at an average depth of 13\xd7. We infer a point mutation rate of 1.66 \xb1 0.04 \xd7 10-8 per base per generation, and a rate of 1.26 \xb1 0.06 \xd7 10-9 for <20 bp indels. Our estimated average genome-wide mutation rate is higher than most pedigree-based estimates reported thus far, but lower than estimates obtained using substitution rates across primates. By quantifying how estimates vary as a function of allele frequency, we infer the probability that a site is involved in non-crossover gene conversion as 5.99 \xb1 0.69 \xd7 10-6, consistent with recent reports. We find that recombination does not have observable mutagenic effects after gene conversion is accounted for, and that local gene conversion rates reflect recombination rates. We detect a strong enrichment for recent deleterious variation among mismatching variants found within IBD regions, and observe summary statistics of local IBD sharing to closely match previously proposed metrics of background selection, but find no significant effects of selection on our estimates of mutation rate. We detect no evidence for strong variation of mutation rates in a number of genomic annotations obtained from several recent studies.', u'Eukaryotic cells are defined by compartments through which the trafficking of macromolecules is mediated by large complexes, such as the nuclear pore, transport vesicles and intraflagellar transport. The assembly and maintenance of these complexes is facilitated by endomembrane coatomers, long suspected to be divergently related on the basis of structural and more recently phylogenomic analysis. By performing supervised walks in sequence space across coatomer superfamilies, we uncover subtle sequence patterns that have remained elusive to date, ultimately unifying eukaryotic coatomers by divergent evolution. The conserved residues shared by 3,502 endomembrane coatomer components are mapped onto the solenoid superhelix of nucleoporin and COPII protein structures, thus determining the invariant elements of coatomer architecture. This ancient structural motif can be considered as a universal signature connecting eukaryotic coatomers involved in multiple cellular processes across cell physiology and human disease.', u'In the construction of Recombinant Inbred Lines (RILs) from two divergent inbred parents certain genotype (or epigenotype) combinations may be functionally "incompatible" when brought together in the genomes of the progeny, thus resulting in sterility or lower fertility. Natural selection against these epistatic combinations during inbreeding can change haplotype frequencies and distort linkage disequilibrium (LD) relations between loci within and across chromosomes. These LD distortions have received increased experimental attention, because they point to genomic regions that may drive Dobzhansky-Muller-type of reproductive isolation and, ultimately, speciation in the wild. Here we study the selection signatures of two-locus epistatic incompatibility models and quantify their impact on the genetic composition of the genomes of 2-way RILs obtained by selfing. We also consider the biases introduced by breeders when trying to counteract the loss of lines by selectively propagating only viable seeds. Building on our theoretical results, we develop model-based maximum likelihood (ML) tests which can be employed in pairwise genome scans for incompatibility loci using multi-locus genotype data. We illustrate this ML approach in the context of two published A. thaliana RIL panels. Our work lays the theoretical foundation for studying more complex systems such as RILs obtained by sibling mating and/or from multi-parental crosses.', u'OBJECTIVE: Urothelial carcinoma of the urinary bladder is the fourth most common cancer in males in the United States. In addition to mutations in FGFR3, TP53, AKT1, TSC1, and PTEN genes, mutations in PIK3CA have been also described in urothelial carcinomas, preferentially in low-grade tumors. Mutations in PIK3CA also has been shown to have implications for prognosis, surveillance and therapeutic response. Thus, determining the PIK3CA status in urothelial carcinomas could potentially improved the clinical management of patients with bladder cancer. Herein, we evaluated the presence of PIK3CA mutations in exons 1, 9, and 20 in 21 urothelial carcinomas of the urinary bladder. \n\nMETHODS: Patients were treated by radical cystectomy without neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Representative tissue blocks (1 for each case) were selected. We used a pinpoint DNA extraction technique from formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded and mutational analysis using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay coupled with sequencing of targeted exons. Patients included 15 men and 6 women, with a median age of 68 years (range, 42 to 76 years), with 3 noninvasive and 18 invasive urothelial carcinomas. Noninvasive carcinomas included 1 case each of low-grade papillary urothelial carcinoma, high-grade papillary urothelial carcinoma, and urothelial carcinoma in situ (CIS). Invasive tumors included 3 pT1, 5 pT2, 6 pT3, and 4 pT4 urothelial carcinomas.\n\nRESULTS: We did not find mutations in the analyzed exons of the PIK3CA gene, in any of the 21 urothelial carcinomas. The preponderance of invasive high-grade and high-stage tumors could explain the absence of identifiable mutations in our cohort.\n\nCONCLUSIONS: PIK3CA mutations as prognosticators of outcome or predictors of therapeutic response await further evaluation.', u'The Swofford-Olsen-Waddell-Hillis (SOWH) test evaluates statistical support for incongruent phylogenetic topologies. It is commonly applied to determine if the maximum likelihood tree in a phylogenetic analysis is significantly different than an alternative hypothesis. The SOWH test compares the observed difference in likelihood between two topologies to a null distribution of differences in likelihood generated by parametric resampling. The test is a well-established phylogenetic method for topology testing, but is is sensitive to model misspecification, it is computationally burdensome to perform, and its implementation requires the investigator to make multiple decisions that each have the potential to affect the outcome of the test. We analyzed the effects of multiple factors using seven datasets to which the SOWH test was previously applied. These factors include bootstrap sample size, likelihood software, the introduction of gaps to simulated data, the use of distinct models of evolution for data simulation and likelihood inference, and a suggested test correction wherein an unresolved "zero-constrained" tree is used to simulate sequence data. In order to facilitate these analyses and future applications of the SOWH test, we wrote SOWHAT, a program that automates the SOWH test. We find that inadequate bootstrap sampling can change the outcome of the SOWH test. The results also show that using a zero-constrained tree for data simulation can result in a wider null distribution and higher p-values, but does not change the outcome of the SOWH test for most datasets. These results will help others implement and evaluate the SOWH test and allow us to provide recommendation for future applications of the SOWH test. SOWHAT is available for download from https://github.com/josephryan/SOWHAT.', u'Premise of the Study: Automatic self-fertilization may influence the geography of speciation, promote reproductive isolation between incipient species, and lead to ecological differentiation. As such, selfing taxa are predicted to co-occur more often with their closest relatives than are outcrossing taxa. Despite suggestions that this pattern may be general, the extent to which mating system influences range overlap in close relatives has not been tested formally across a diverse group of plant species pairs.\n\nMethods: We test for a difference in range overlap between species pairs where zero, one, or both species are selfers, using data from 98 sister species pairs in 20 genera across 15 flowering plant families. We also use divergence time estimates from time-calibrated phylogenies to ask how range overlap changes with divergence time and whether this effect depends on mating system.\n\nKey Results: We find no evidence that automatic self-fertilization influences range overlap of closely related plant species. Sister pairs with more recent divergence times had modestly greater range overlap, but this effect did not depend on mating system.\n\nConclusions: The absence of a strong influence of mating system on range overlap suggests that mating system plays a minor or inconsistent role compared to many other mechanisms potentially influencing the co-occurrence of close relatives.', u'Some diseases are caused by genetic loci with a high rate of change, and heritability in complex traits is likely to be partially caused by variation at these loci. These hypermutable elements, such as tandem repeats, change at rates that are orders of magnitude higher than the rates at which most single nucleotides mutate. However, single nucleotide polymorphisms, or SNPs, are currently the primary focus of genetic studies of human disease. Here we quantify the degree to which SNPs are correlated with hypermutable loci, examining a range of mutation rates that correspond to mutation rates at tandem repeat loci. We use established population genetics theory to relate mutation rates to recombination rates and compare the theoretical predictions to simulations. Both simulations and theory agree that, at the highest mutation rates, almost all correlation is lost between a hypermutable locus and surrounding SNPs. The theoretical predictions break down for middle to low mutation rates, differing widely from the simulated results. The simulation results suggest that some correlation remains between SNPs and hypermutable loci when mutation rates are on the lower end of the mutation spectrum. Consequently, in some cases SNPs can tag variation caused by tandem repeat loci.  We also examine the linkage between SNPs and other SNPs and uncover ways in which the linkage disequilibrium of rare SNPs differs from that of hypermutable loci.', u'Bacteria are central to human health and disease, but the tools available for modulating and editing bacterial communities are limited. New technologies for tuning microbial populations would facilitate the targeted manipulation of the human microbiome and treatment of bacterial infections. For example, antibiotics are often broad spectrum in nature and cannot be used to accurately manipulate bacterial communities. Bacteriophages can provide highly specific targeting of bacteria, but relying solely on natural phage isolation strategies to assemble well-defined and uniform phage cocktails that are amenable to engineering can be a time-consuming and labor-intensive process. Here, we present a synthetic-biology strategy to modulate phage host ranges by manipulating phage genomes in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We used this technology to swap multiple modular phage tail components and demonstrated that Escherichia coli phage scaffolds can be redirected to target pathogenic Yersinia and Klebsiella bacteria, and conversely, Klebsiella phage scaffolds can be redirected to target E. coli. The synthetic phages achieved multiple orders-of-magnitude killing of their new target bacteria and were used to selectively remove specific bacteria from multi-species bacterial communities. We envision that this approach will accelerate the study of phage biology, facilitate the tuning of phage host ranges, and enable new tools for microbiome engineering and the treatment of infectious diseases.', u'Novel methods for the sequencing of single-cell DNA offer tremendous opportunities. However, many techniques are still in their infancy and a major obstacle is given by sample contamination with foreign DNA. In this contribution, we present a pipeline that allows for fast, automated detection of contaminated samples by the use of modern machine learning methods. First, a vectorial representation of the genomic data is obtained using oligonucleotide signatures. Using non-linear subspace projections, data is transformed to be suitable for automatic clustering. This allows for the detection of one vs. more genomes (clusters) in a sample. As clustering is an ill-posed problem, the pipeline relies on a thorough choice of all involved methods and parameters. We give an overview of the problem and evaluate techniques suitable for this task.', u'Cancer genome sequencing studies have identified cancer-driver genes from the increased accumulation of protein-altering mutations. However, the positional distributions of coding mutations, and the 79% of somatic variants in exome data that do not alter protein sequence or RNA splicing, remain largely unstudied. We employed density-based clustering methods on ~4,700 exomes from 21 tumor types to detect variably-sized significantly mutated regions (SMRs). SMRs reveal recurrent alterations across a diverse spectrum of coding and non-coding elements, including microRNAs, transcription factor binding sites, and untranslated regions that are individually mutated in up to ~15% of samples in specific cancer types. SMRs often associated with changes in gene expression and signaling. Mapping SMRs to protein structures revealed spatial clustering of somatic mutations at known and novel cancer-driver domains and molecular interfaces. Mutation frequencies in SMRs demonstrate that distinct protein regions are differentially mutated among tumor types. The functional diversity of SMRs underscores both the varied mechanisms of oncogenic misregulation and the advantage of unbiased driver identification.', u'Single-cell transcriptomic profiling enables the unprecedented interrogation of gene expression heterogeneity in rare cell populations that would otherwise be obscured in bulk RNA sequencing experiments. The stochastic nature of transcription is revealed in the bimodality of single-cell transcriptomic data, a feature shared across single-cell expression platforms. There is, however, a paucity of computational tools that take advantage of this unique characteristic.  We present a new methodology to analyze single-cell transcriptomic data that models this bimodality within a coherent generalized linear modeling framework. We propose a two-part, generalized linear model that allows one to characterize biological changes in the proportions of cells that are expressing each gene, and in the positive mean expression level of that gene. We introduce the cellular detection rate, the fraction of genes turned on in a cell, and show how it can be used to simultaneously adjust for technical variation and so-called \u201cextrinsic noise\u201d at the single-cell level without the use of control genes. Our model permits direct inference on statistics formed by collections of genes, facilitating gene set enrichment analysis. The residuals defined by such models can be manipulated to interrogate cellular heterogeneity and gene-gene correlation across cells and conditions, providing insights into the temporal evolution of networks of co-expressed genes at the single-cell level. Using two single-cell RNA-seq datasets, including newly generated data from Mucosal Associated Invariant T (MAIT) cells, we show how model residuals can be used to identify significant changes across biologically relevant gene sets that are missed by other methods and characterize cellular heterogeneity in response to stimulation.', u'Proteomics is poised to play critical roles in clinical research. However, due to limited coverage and high noise, integration with powerful analysis algorithms is necessary. In particular, network-based algorithms can improve selection of reproducible features in spite of incomplete proteome coverage, technical inconsistency or high inter-sample variability. We define analytical reliability on three benchmarks --- precision/recall rates, feature-selection stability and cross-validation accuracy. Using these, we demonstrate the insufficiencies of commonly used Student???s t-test and Hypergeometric enrichment. Given advances in sample sizes, quantitation accuracy and coverage, we are now able to introduce and evaluate Ranked-Based Network Approaches (RBNAs) for the first time in proteomics. These include SNET (SubNETwork), FSNET (FuzzySNET), PFSNET (PairedFSNET). We also introduce for the first time, PPFSNET(samplePairedPFSNET), which is a paired-sample variant of PFSNET. RBNAs (particularly PFSNET and PPFSNET) excelled on all three benchmarks and can make consistent and reproducible predictions even in the small-sample size scenario (n=4). Given these qualities, RBNAs represent an important advancement in network biology, and is expected to see practical usage, particularly in clinical biomarker and drug target prediction.', u'Single cell RNA-seq data allows insight into normal cellular function and diseases including cancer through the molecular characterisation of cellular state at the single-cell level. Dimensionality reduction of such high-dimensional datasets is essential for visualization and analysis, but single-cell RNA-seq data is challenging for classical dimensionality reduction methods because of the prevalence of dropout events leading to zero-inflated data. Here we develop a dimensionality reduction method, (Z)ero (I)nflated (F)actor (A)nalysis (ZIFA), which explicitly models the dropout characteristics, and show that it improves performance on simulated and biological datasets.', u'Organisms and ecological groups accumulate evidence to make decisions. Classic experiments and theoretical studies have explored this process when the correct choice is fixed during each trial. However, the natural world constantly changes. Using sequential analysis we derive a tractable model of evidence accumulation when the correct option changes in time. Our analysis shows that ideal observers discount prior evidence at a rate determined by the volatility of the environment, and that the dynamics of evidence accumulation is governed  by the information gained over an average environmental epoch. A plausible neural implementation of an optimal observer in a changing environment shows that, in contrast to previous models,  neural populations representing alternate choices are coupled through excitation.', u'Polyglutamine (pQ) tracts are abundant in many proteins co-interacting on DNA. The lengths of these pQ tracts can modulate their interaction strengths. However, pQ tracts > 40 residues are pathologically prone to amyloidogenic self-assembly. Here, we assess the extent and consequences of variation in the pQ-encoding opa repeats of Notch (N) in Drosophila melanogaster. We use Sanger sequencing to genotype opa sequences (50-CAX repeats), which have resisted assembly using short sequence reads. While the majority of N sequences pertain to reference opa31 (Q13HQ17) and opa32 (Q13HQ18) allelic classes, several rare alleles encode tracts > 32 residues: opa33a (Q14HQ18), opa33b (Q15HQ17), opa34 (Q16HQ17), opa35a1/opa35a2 (Q13HQ21), opa36 (Q13HQ22), and opa37 (Q13HQ23). Only one rare allele encodes a tract < 31 residues: opa23 (Q13-Q10). This opa23 allele shortens the pQ tract while simultaneously eliminating the interrupting histidine. Homozygotes for the short and long opa alleles have defects in sensory bristle organ specification, abdominal patterning, and embryonic survival. Inbred stocks with wild-type opa31 alleles become more viable when outbred, while an inbred stock with the longer opa35 becomes less viable after outcrossing to different backgrounds. In contrast, an inbred stock with the short opa23 allele is semi-viable in both inbred and outbred genetic backgrounds. This opa23 Notch allele also produces notched wings when recombined out of the X chromosome. Importantly, wa-linked X balancers carry the N allele opa33b and suppress AS-C insufficiency caused by the sc8 inversion. Our results demonstrate potent pQ variation and epistatic sensitivity for the N locus, and the need for long read genotyping of key repeat variables underlying gene regulatory networks.', u'As next-generation sequencing becomes a clinical tool, a full understanding of the variables affecting sequencing analysis output is required. Through the International Cancer Genome Consortium (ICGC), we compared sequencing pipelines at five independent centers (CNAG, DKFZ, OICR, RIKEN and WTSI) using a single tumor-blood DNA pair. Analyses by each center and with one standardized algorithm revealed significant discrepancies. Although most pipelines performed well for coding mutations, library preparation methods and sequencing coverage metrics clearly influenced downstream results. PCR-free methods showed reduced GC-bias and more even coverage. Increasing sequencing depth to ~100x (two- to three-fold higher than current standards) showed a benefit, as long as the tumor:control coverage ratio remained balanced. To become part of routine clinical care, high-throughput sequencing must be globally compatible and comparable. This benchmarking exercise has highlighted several fundamental parameters to consider in this regard, which will allow for better optimization and planning of both basic and translational studies.', u'We calculated the linkage disequilibrium between all pairs of variants in the Drosophila Genome Reference Panel with minor allele count equal to or greater than 5.  We used r2\u22650.5 as the cutoff for a highly correlated SNP.  We make available the list of all highly correlated SNPs for use in association studies.  Seventy-six percent of variant SNPs are highly correlated with at least one other SNP, and the mean number of highly correlated SNPs per variant over the whole genome is 83.9.   Disequilibrium between distant SNPs is also common when minor allele frequency (MAF) is low: 37% of SNPs with MAF<0.1 are highly correlated with SNPs more than 100kb distant.   While SNPs within regions with polymorphic inversions are highly correlated with somewhat larger numbers of SNPs, and these correlated SNPs are on average farther away, the probability that a SNP in such regions is highly correlated with at least one other SNP is very similar to SNPs outside inversions.   Previous karyotyping of the DGRP lines has been inconsistent, and we used LD and genotype to investigate these discrepancies.  When previous studies agreed on inversion karyotype, our analysis was almost perfectly concordant with those assignments. In discordant cases, and for inversion heterozygotes, our results suggest errors in two previous analyses, or discordance between genotype and karyotype. Heterozygosities of chromosome arms are in many cases surprisingly highly correlated, suggesting strong epsistatic selection during the inbreeding and maintenance of the DGRP lines.', u'Motivation: An important property of a valid method for testing for differential expression is that the false positive rate should at least roughly correspond to the p-value cutoff, so that if 10,000 genes are tested at a p-value cutoff of 10\u22124, and if all the null hypotheses are true, then there should be only about 1 gene declared to be significantly differentially expressed. We tested this by resampling from existing RNA-Seq data sets and also by matched negative binomial simulations.\n\nResults: Methods we examined, which rely strongly on a negative binomial model, such as edgeR, DESeq, and DESeq2, show large numbers of false positives in both the resampled real-data case and in the simulated negative binomial case. This also occurs with a negative binomial generalized linear model function in R. Methods that use only the variance function, such as limma-voom, do not show excessive false positives, as is also the case with a variance stabilizing transformation followed by linear model analysis with limma. The excess false positives are likely caused by apparently small biases in estimation of negative binomial dispersion and, perhaps surprisingly, occur mostly when the mean and/or the dis-persion is high, rather than for low-count genes.', u'bModelTest allows for a Bayesian approach to inferring a site model for phylogenetic analysis. It is based on trans dimensional MCMC proposals that allow switching between substitution models, whether gamma rate heterogeneity is used and whether a proportion of the sites is invariant. The model can be used with the set of reversible models on nucleotides, but we also introduce other sets of substitution models, and show how to use these sets of models. With the method, the site model can be inferred during the MCMC analysis and does not need to be pre-determined, as is now often the case in practice, by likelihood based methods.', u'Identification of biochemical processes that drive the transformation of a totipotent cell into various cell types is essential to our understanding of living systems. This complex machinery determines how tissues differ in terms of their anatomy, physiology, morphology, and, more importantly, how various cellular control mechanisms contribute to the observed similarities/ differences. Tissue-selective genes orchestrate various aspects of cellular machinery in different tissues, and are known to be implicated in a number of tissue-specific pathologies.\n\nWe propose a novel statistical approach that identifies and removes the effect of universally expressed genes in groups of tissues. This allows us to better characterize tissue similarities, as well as to identify tissue-selective genes. We use our method to construct a reliable hierarchy of tissue similarities. The groupings of tissues in this hierarchy are used to specify successively refined priors for identifying tissue-selective functions and their corresponding genes in the reduced subspace. We show that our refinement process enhances the signal-to-noise ratio in the identification of markers. Using case studies of immune cells and brain tissues, we show that our approach significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art methods, both in terms of coverage and reliability of the predicted tissue-selective genes.\n\nOur statistical approach provides a general framework for enhancing the sensitivity of marker detection methods, which can be used in conjunction with other techniques. Even in cases where the number of available expression datasets is limited, we show that our marker detection method outperforms existing techniques. We present detailed validation on immune cells and brain tissues in this paper. Our approach can be applied to construct similar datasets of other human tissues as well, for identifying tissue-specific genes. We demonstrate how these tissue-selective genes enhance our understanding of differentiating biochemical features of brain tissues, shed light on how tissue-selective pathologies progress, and help us identify specific biomarkers and targets for future interventions.', u'DNA sampled from the environment (eDNA) is becoming a game changer for uncovering biodiversity patterns.  By combining a conceptual model and empirical data, we test whether eDNA transported in river networks can be used as an integrative way to assess eukaryotic biodiversity for large spatial scales and across the land-water interface. Using an eDNA metabarcode approach we detected 300 families of eukaryotes, spanning 19 phyla across the catchment of a river. We show for a subset of these families that eDNA samples overcome spatial autocorrelation biases associated with classical community assessments integrating biodiversity information over space. Additionally, we demonstrate that many terrestrial species can be detected; thus revealing eDNA in river-water integrates biodiversity information across terrestrial and aquatic biomes. Environmental DNA transported in river networks offers a novel and spatially integrated way to assess total biodiversity for whole landscapes and will revolutionize biodiversity data acquisition in ecology.', u'Efforts to identify loci underlying complex traits generally assume that most genetic variance is additive. Here, we examined the genetics of Arabidopsis thaliana root length and found that the narrow-sense heritability for this trait was statistically zero. This low additive genetic variance likely explains why no associations to root length could be found using standard additive-model-based genome-wide association (GWA) approaches. However, the broad-sense heritability for root length was significantly larger, and we therefore also performed an epistatic GWA analysis to map loci contributing to the epistatic genetic variance. This analysis revealed four interacting pairs involving seven chromosomal loci that passed a standard multiple-testing corrected significance threshold. Explorations of the genotype-phenotype maps for these pairs revealed that the detected epistasis cancelled out the additive genetic variance, explaining why these loci were not detected in the additive GWA analysis. Small population sizes, such as in our experiment, increase the risk of identifying false epistatic interactions due to testing for associations with very large numbers of multi-marker genotypes in few phenotyped individuals. Therefore, we estimated the false-positive risk using a new statistical approach that suggested half of the associated pairs to be true positive associations. Our experimental evaluation of candidate genes within the seven associated loci suggests that this estimate is conservative; we identified functional candidate genes that affected root development in four loci that were part of three of the pairs. In summary, statistical epistatic analyses were found to be indispensable for confirming known, and identifying several new, functional candidate genes for root length using a population of wild-collected A. thaliana accessions. We also illustrated how epistatic cancellation of the additive genetic variance resulted in an insignificant narrow-sense, but significant broad-sense heritability that could be dissected into the contributions of several individual loci using a combination of careful statistical epistatic analyses and functional genetic experiments.', u'Long distance migration is a widespread process evolved independently in several animal groups in terrestrial and marine ecosystems. Many factors contribute to the migration process and of primary importance are intra-specific competition and seasonality in the resource distribution. Adaptive migration in direction of increasing fitness should leads to the ideal free distribution (IFD) which is the evolutionary stable strategy of the habitat selection game. \nWe introduce a migration game which focuses on migrating dynamics that lead to the IFD for age-structured populations in time varying environments where dispersal is costly. \nThe model assumes a network of habitats and predicts migration dynamics between these habitats and the corresponding population distribution.\nWhen applied to Atlantic bluefin tunas it predicts their migration routes and their seasonal distribution. The largest biomass is located in the spawning areas which have also the largest diversity in the age-structure. Distant feeding areas are occupied on a seasonal base and often by larger  individuals, in agreement with empirical observations. Moreover we show that only a selected number of migratory routes emerge as those effectively used by tunas.', u'The  RNA world of more than 3.7 billion years ago may have drawn on thermal and pH oscillations set up by the oxidation of thiosulfate by hydrogen peroxide (the THP oscillator) as a power source to drive replication. Since this primordial RNA also must have developed enzyme functionalities, in this work we examine the responses of two simple ribozymes to a THP periodic drive, using experimental rate and thermochemical data in a dynamical model for the coupled, self-consistent evolution of all reactants and intermediates.  The resulting time traces show that ribozyme performance can be enhanced under pH cycling, and that thermal cycling may have been necessary to achieve large performance gains. We discuss three important ways in which the dynamic hydrogen peroxide medium may have acted as an agent for development of the RNA world towards a cellular world: proton gradients, resolution of the ribozyme versus replication paradox, and vesicle formation.', u'Exploiting the power of nanopore sequencing requires the development of new bioinformatics approaches to deal with its specific error characteristics. We present the first nanopore read mapper (GraphMap) that uses a read-funneling paradigm to robustly handle variable error rates and fast graph traversal to align long reads with speed and very high precision (>95%). Evaluation on MinION sequencing datasets against short and long-read mappers indicates that GraphMap increases mapping sensitivity by at least 15-80%. GraphMap alignments are the first to demonstrate consensus calling with <1 error in 100,000 bases, variant calling on the human genome with 76% improvement in sensitivity over the next best mapper (BWA-MEM), precise detection of structural variants from 100bp to 4kbp in length and species and strain-specific identification of pathogens using MinION reads. GraphMap is available open source under the MIT license at https://github.com/isovic/graphmap.', u"Polyglutamine (pQ) tracts are abundant in many proteins co-interacting on DNA. The lengths of these pQ tracts can modulate their interaction strengths. However, pQ tracts > 40 residues are pathologically prone to amyloidogenic self-assembly. Here, we assess the extent and consequences of variation in the pQ-encoding opa repeats of Notch (N) in Drosophila melanogaster. We use Sanger sequencing to genotype opa sequences (5'-CAX repeats), which have resisted assembly using short sequence reads. While the majority of N sequences pertain to reference opa31 (Q13HQ17) and opa32 (Q13HQ18) allelic classes, several rare alleles encode tracts > 32 residues: opa33a (Q14HQ18), opa33b (Q15HQ17), opa34 (Q16HQ17), opa35a1/opa35a2 (Q13HQ21), opa36 (Q13HQ22), and opa37 (Q13HQ23). Only one rare allele encodes a tract < 31 residues: opa23 (Q13-Q10). This opa23 allele shortens the pQ tract while simultaneously eliminating the interrupting histidine. Homozygotes for the short and long opa alleles have defects in sensory bristle organ specification, abdominal patterning, and embryonic survival. Inbred stocks with wild-type opa31 alleles become more viable when outbred, while an inbred stock with the longer opa35 becomes less viable after outcrossing to different backgrounds. In contrast, an inbred stock with the short opa23 allele is semi-viable in both inbred and outbred genetic backgrounds. This opa23 Notch allele also produces notched wings when recombined out of the X chromosome. Importantly, w[apricot]-linked X balancers carry the N allele opa33b and suppress AS-C insufficiency caused by the sc8 inversion. Our results demonstrate significant cryptic variation and epistatic sensitivity for the N locus, and the need for long read genotyping of key repeat variables underlying gene regulatory networks.", u'Genetic prediction based on either identity by state (IBS) sharing or pedigree information has been investigated extensively using Best Linear Unbiased Prediction (BLUP) methods. Such methods were pioneered in the plant and animal breeding literature and have since been applied to predict human traits with the aim of eventual clinical utility. However, methods to combine IBS sharing and pedigree information for genetic prediction in humans have not been explored. We introduce a two variance component model for genetic prediction: one component for IBS sharing and one for approximate pedigree structure, both estimated using genetic markers. In simulations using real genotypes from CARe and FHS family cohorts, we demonstrate that the two variance component model achieves gains in prediction r2 over standard BLUP at current sample sizes, and we project based on simulations that these gains will continue to hold at larger sample sizes. Accordingly, in analyses of four quantitative phenotypes from CARe and two quantitative phenotypes from FHS, the two variance component model significantly improves prediction r2 in each case, with up to a 20% relative improvement. We also find that standard mixed model association tests can produce inflated test statistics in data sets with related individuals, whereas the two variance component model corrects for inflation.', u'Identification of candidate causal variants in regions associated with risk of common diseases is complicated by linkage disequilibrium (LD) and multiple association signals. Nonetheless, accurate maps of these variants are needed, both to fully exploit detailed cell specific chromatin annotation data to highlight disease causal mechanisms and cells, and for design of the functional studies that will ultimately be required to confirm causal mechanisms. We adapted a Bayesian evolutionary stochastic search algorithm to the fine mapping problem, and demonstrated its improved performance over conventional stepwise and regularised regression through simulation studies. We then applied it to fine map the established multiple sclerosis (MS) and type 1 diabetes (T1D) associations in the IL-2RA (CD25) gene region. For T1D, both stepwise and stochastic search approaches identified four T1D association signals, with the major effect tagged by the single nucleotide polymorphism, rs12722496. In contrast, for MS, the stochastic search found two distinct competing models: a single candidate causal variant, tagged by rs2104286 and reported previously using stepwise analysis; and a more complex model with two association signals, one of which was tagged by the major T1D associated rs12722496 and the other by rs56382813. There is low to moderate LD between rs2104286 and both rs12722496 and rs56382813 (r2 =~ 0.3) and our two SNP\nmodel could not be recovered through a forward stepwise search after conditioning on rs2104286. Both signals in the two variant model for MS affect CD25 expression on distinct subpopulations of CD4 + T cells, which are key cells in the autoimmune process. The results support a shared causal variant for T1D and MS. Our study illustrates the benefit of using a purposely designed model search strategy for fine mapping and the advantage of combining disease and protein expression\ndata.', u'Convergent evolution is the independent evolution of similar traits in \ndifferent species or lineages of the same species;\nthis often is a result of adaptation to similar environments,\na process referred to as convergent adaptation.}\nWe investigate here the molecular basis of convergent adaptation in maize to highland climates in Mesoamerica and South America using genome-wide SNP data. \nTaking advantage of archaeological data on the arrival of maize to the highlands, we infer demographic models for both populations, identifying evidence of a strong bottleneck and rapid expansion in South America.  \nWe use these models to then identify loci showing an excess of differentiation as a means of identifying putative targets of natural selection, and compare our results to expectations from recently developed theory on convergent adaptation.  \nConsistent with predictions across a wide parameter space, we see limited evidence for convergent evolution at the nucleotide level in spite of strong similarities in overall phenotypes.  \nInstead, we show that selection appears to have predominantly acted on standing genetic variation, and that introgression from wild teosinte populations appears to have played a role in highland adaptation in Mexican maize.', u'Cellular reprogramming, the conversion of one cell type to another, has fundamentally trans-\nformed our conception of cell types. Cellular reprogramming induces global changes in gene expression involving hundreds of transcription factors and thousands of genes and understanding how cells globally alter their gene expression profile during reprogramming is an open problem. Here we reanalyze time-series data on cellular reprogramming from differentiated cell types to induced\npluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) and show that gene expression dynamics during reprogramming follow a simple one-dimensional reaction coordinate. This reaction coordinate is independent of both the time it takes to reach the iPSC state as well as the details of experimental protocol used. Using Monte-Carlo simulations, we show that such a reaction coordinate emerges naturally from epigenetic landscape models of cell identity where cellular reprogramming is viewed as a \u201cbarrier-\ncrossing\u201d between the starting and ending cell fates. The model also provides gene-level insight into\nreprogramming dynamics and resolves a debate in the stem cell field about the different phases of\nreprogramming dynamics. Overall, our analysis and model suggest that gene expression dynamics\nduring reprogramming follow a canonical trajectory consistent with the idea of an \u201coptimal path\u201d\nin gene expression space for reprogramming.', u'A major limitation in the analysis of genetic marker data from polyploid organisms is non-Mendelian segregation, particularly when a single marker yields allelic signals from multiple, independently segregating loci (isoloci).  However, with markers such as microsatellites that detect more than two alleles, it is sometimes possible to deduce which alleles belong to which isoloci.  Here we describe a novel mathematical property of codominant marker data when it is recoded as binary (presence/absence) allelic variables: under random mating in an infinite population, two allelic variables will be negatively correlated if they belong to the same locus, but uncorrelated if they belong to different loci.  We present an algorithm to take advantage of this mathematical property, sorting alleles into isoloci based on correlations, then refining the allele assignments after checking for consistency with individual genotypes.  We demonstrate the utility of our method on simulated data, as well as a real microsatellite dataset from a natural population of octoploid white sturgeon (Acipenser transmontanus).  Our methodology is implemented in the R package polysat version 1.4.', u'Biological soil crusts (BSC) are key components of ecosystem productivity in arid lands and they cover a substantial fraction of the terrestrial surface. In particular, BSC N2-fixation contributes significantly to the nitrogen (N) budget of arid land ecosystems.  In mature crusts, N2-fixation is largely attributed to heterocystous cyanobacteria, however, early successional crusts possess few N2-fixing cyanobacteria and this suggests that microorganisms other than cyanobacteria mediate N2-fixation during the critical early stages of BSC development. DNA stable isotope probing (DNA-SIP) with 15N2 revealed that Clostridiaceae and Proteobacteria are the most common microorganisms that assimilate 15N2 in early successional crusts. The Clostridiaceae identified are divergent from previously characterized isolates, though N2-fixation has previously been observed in this family. The Proteobacteria identified share >98.5% SSU rRNA gene sequence identity with isolates from genera known to possess diazotrophs (e.g. Pseudomonas, Klebsiella, Shigella, and Ideonella). The low abundance of these heterotrophic diazotrophs in BSC may explain why they have not been characterized previously. Diazotrophs play a critical role in BSC formation and characterization of these organisms represents a crucial step towards understanding how anthropogenic change will affect the formation and ecological function of BSC in arid ecosystems.', u'Transcription factors (TFs) recognize small DNA sequence motifs directly or through their sequence-dependent structure. While sequence composition and degeneracy are verified to be the defining factors of TF binding specificity, the role of conformational dynamics of the DNA remains poorly understood. With growing evidence from next generation sequencing (NGS) data suggesting the inadequacy of sequence-only models, alternative models for describing the TF binding preferences are required, wherein the conformational dynamics presents an attractive option. Here, we report a novel method (DynaSeq) which accurately predicts DNA-conformational ensembles for genomic targets of TFs. Using DynaSeq we demonstrate how the dynamics of binding sites and their distal flanking regions can be used to elucidate TF-binding patterns for two model systems: cell type-specific binding of STAT3 and chromatin structural specificity of 3 functional TF classes viz. pioneers, settlers and migrants. We find that TF preferences in both these systems can be accurately explained by the conformational dynamics of their binding sites and their distal flanking DNA regions. Conformational dynamics not only distinguishes binding sites from genomic backgrounds in STAT3; it also points to a modular organization of their surrounding regions. Further, the differential binding modes of STAT3-DNA reveal a potential mechanism of cellular specificity. Our model identifies clear signatures to accurately classify pioneer, migrant and settler TF targets from the dynamics of distal flanking regions. This suggests that the chromatin preferences of TFs are significantly influenced by the intrinsic conformational dynamics of the DNA surrounding the TF binding sites.', u'In recent years, different technologies have been used to measure genome-wide gene expression levels and to study the transcriptome across many types of tissues and in response to in vitro treatments. However, a full understanding of gene regulation in any given cellular and environmental context combination is still missing. This is partly because analyzing tissue/environment-specific gene expression generally implies screening a large number of cellular conditions and samples, without prior knowledge of which conditions are most informative (e.g. some cell types may not respond to certain treatments). To circumvent these challenges, we have established a new two-step high-throughput and cost-effective RNA-seq approach: the first step consists of gene expression screening of a large number of conditions, while the second step focuses on deep sequencing of the most relevant conditions (e.g. largest number of differentially expressed genes). This study design allows for a fast and economical screen in step one, with a more profitable allocation of resources for the deep sequencing of re-pooled libraries in step two. We have applied this approach to study the response to 26 treatments in three lymphoblastoid cell line samples and we show that it is applicable for other high-throughput transcriptome profiling requiring iterative refinement or screening.', u'Some group-living species exhibit social immunity, where the immune system of one individual can protect others in the group from infection. In burying beetles this is part of parental care. Larvae feed on vertebrate carcasses which their parents smear with exudates that inhibit microbial growth. We have sequenced the transcriptome of the burying beetle Nicrophorus vespilloides and identified six genes that encode lysozymes \u2013 a type of antimicrobial enzyme that has previously been implicated in social immunity in burying beetles. When females start breeding and producing antimicrobial anal exudates, we found that the expression of one of these genes was increased by ~1000 times to become one of the most abundant transcripts in the transcriptome. We conclude that we have likely identified a gene for social immunity, and that it was recruited during evolution from a previous function in personal immunity.', u'Summary: WaspAtlas is a new integrated gene database for the emerging model organism Nasonia vitripennis, which combines annotation data from all available annotation releases with original analyses to form the most comprehensive N. vitripennis resource to date. WaspAtlas allows users to browse and search for gene information in a clear and co-ordinated fashion providing detailed illustrations and easy to understand summaries. The database provides a platform for integrating gene expression and DNA methylation data. WaspAtlas also functions as an archive for empirical data relating to genes, allowing users to easily browse published data relating to their gene(s) of interest.  \nAvailability: Freely available on the web at http://waspatlas.com. Website implemented in Catalyst, MySQL and Apache, with all major browsers supported.', u'Critics of significance testing claim that this statistical framework promotes discrepancies by using arbitrary thresholds (\u03b1) to impose reject/accept dichotomies on continuous data, which is not reflective of the biological reality of quantitative phenotypes. Here we explore this idea and evaluate an alternative approach, demonstrating the potential for meta-analysis and related estimation methods to resolve discordance generated by the use of traditional significance tests. We selected a set of behavioral studies proposing differing models of the physiological basis of Drosophila olfactory memory and used systematic review and meta-analysis approaches to define the true role of lobular specialization within the brain. The mainstream view is that each of the three lobes of the Drosophila mushroom body play specialized roles in short-term aversive olfactory memory, but a number of studies have made divergent conclusions based on their discordant experimental findings. Multivariate meta- regression models revealed that short-term memory lobular specialization is not in fact supported by the data, and identified the cellular extent of a transgenic driver as the major predictor of its effect on short- term memory. Our findings demonstrate that meta-analysis, meta-regression, hierarchical models and estimation methods in general can be successfully harnessed to identify knowledge gaps, synthesize divergent results, accommodate heterogeneous experimental design and quantify genetic mechanisms.', u'Identifying whether potential causal variants for related diseases are shared can increase understanding of the shared etiology between diseases. Colocalization methods are designed to disentangle shared and distinct causal variants in regions where two diseases show association, but existing methods are limited by assuming independent datasets. We extended existing methods to allow for the shared control design common in GWAS and applied them to four autoimmune diseases: type 1 diabetes (T1D); rheumatoid arthritis; celiac disease (CEL) and multiple sclerosis (MS). Ninety regions associated with at least one disease. In 22 regions (24%), we identify association to precisely one of our four diseases and can find no published association of any other disease to the same region; some of these may reflect effects mediated by the target of immune attack. Thirty-three regions (37%) were associated with two or more, but in 14 of these there was evidence that causal variants differed between diseases. By leveraging information across datasets, we identified novel disease associations to 12 regions previously associated with one or more of the other three autoimmune disorders. For instance, we link the CEL-associated FASLG region to T1D and identify a single SNP, rs78037977, as a likely causal variant. We also highlight several particularly complex association patterns, including the CD28-CTLA4-ICOS region, in which it appears that three distinct causal variants associate with three diseases in three different patterns. Our results underscore the complexity in genetic variation underlying related but distinct autoimmune diseases and help to approach its dissection.', u'RNA genetic circuitry is emerging as a powerful tool to control gene expression. However, little work has been done to create a theoretical foundation for RNA circuit design. A prerequisite to this is a quantitative modeling framework that accurately describes the dynamics of RNA circuits. In this work, we develop an ordinary differential equation model of transcriptional RNA genetic circuitry, using an RNA cascade as a test case. We show that parameter sensitivity analysis can be used to design a set of four simple experiments that can be performed in parallel using rapid cell-free transcription-translation (TX-TL) reactions to determine the thirteen parameters of the model. The resulting model accurately recapitulates the dynamic behavior of the cascade, and can be easily extended to predict the function of new cascade variants that utilize new elements with limited additional characterization experiments. Interestingly, we show that inconsistencies between model predictions and experiments led to the model-guided discovery of a previously unknown maturation step required for RNA regulator function. We also determine circuit parameters in two different batches of TX-TL, and show that batch-to-batch variation can be attributed to differences in parameters that are directly related to the concentrations of core gene expression machinery. We anticipate the RNA circuit models developed here will inform the creation of computer aided genetic circuit design tools that can incorporate the growing number of RNA regulators, and that the parameterization method will find use in determining functional parameters of a broad array of natural and synthetic regulatory systems.', u'A central goal of synthetic biology is to design sophisticated synthetic cellular circuits that can perform complex computations and information processing tasks in response to specific inputs. The tremendous advances in our ability to understand and manipulate cellular information processing networks raises several fundamental physics questions: How do the molecular components of cellu- lar circuits exploit energy consumption to improve information processing? Can one utilize ideas from thermodynamics to improve the design of synthetic cellular circuits and modules? Here, we summarize recent theoretical work addressing these questions. Energy consumption in cellular cir- cuits serves five basic purposes: (1) increasing specificity, (2) manipulating dynamics, (3) reducing variability, (4) amplifying signal, and (5) erasing memory. We demonstrate these ideas using several simple examples and discuss the implications of these theoretical ideas for the emerging field of synthetic biology. We conclude by discussing how it may be possible to overcome these limitations using \u201cpost-translational\u201d synthetic biology that exploits reversible protein modification.', u'Bacteria are often exposed to various stressors with inter-linked effects leading to cross-resistance. In order to study the common molecular response to stress in bacteria, we collated and compared transcriptional response of E. coli under a variety of biotic and abiotic stresses. Bacterial genome-wide gene expression data were retrieved from the NCBI Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database and interrogated to identify differentially expressed genes. \nOne hundred and sixty eight genes displayed distinct transcriptional response of E. coli to stress, with simultaneous down-regulation of flagellar assembly pathway and up-regulation of the global regulator rpoS.\nThis computational analysis summarizes stress responsive genes in E. coli and their inter-relationships.', u'The testing of vaccines for tuberculosis is costly and time-consuming, and dependent on preclinical animal challenge models and clinical trials. We have recently developed a mycobacterial growth inhibition assay (MGIA) to test vaccine efficacy ex vivo. This assay measures the summative effect of the host immune response and may serve as a novel tool to facilitate vaccine testing. It has generated much interest recently, and to facilitate technology transfer and reproducibility between laboratories, we here describe a detailed protocol for an ex vivo MGIA in mouse splenocytes.', u'Rare variant association studies are at a critical inflexion point with the increasing availability of exome-sequencing data. A popular test of association is the sequence kernel association test (SKAT). Weights are embedded within SKAT to reflect the hypothesized contribution of the variants to the trait variance. Correct weighting is expected to boost power, and yet the correct weights are generally unknown. It is therefore important to assess the effect of weight misspecification in SKAT.\nWe evaluated the behavior of the score and likelihood ratio tests (LRT) under weight misspecification. Simulation and empirical results revealed that LRT is generally more robust and more powerful than score test in such a circumstance. For instance, when the simulated betas were larger for rarer than for more common variants, (incorrectly) assigning equal weights reduced the power of the LRT by ~5%, while the power of the score test dropped by ~30%. \nTo optimize weighting we proposed a data-driven weighting scheme. With this scheme and LRT we detected significant enrichment of rare case mutations (MAF<5%; P-value=7E-04) of a set of constrained genes in the Swedish schizophrenia case-control cohort with exome-sequencing data. \nThe score test is currently preferred for its computational efficiency and power. Indeed, assuming correct specification, in some circumstances the score test is the most powerful test. However, LRT has the compelling qualities of being generally more powerful and more robust to misspecification. This is an important result given that, arguably, misspecified models are likely to be the rule rather than the exception in weighting-based approaches.', u'We propose a new readout architecture for echo state networks where multiple linear readout modules are activated at distinct time points to varying degrees by a separate controller module. The controller module, like the reservoir of the echo state network, can be initialized randomly. All linear readout modules are trained through simple linear regression, which is the only adaptive step in the modified algorithm. The resulting architecture provides modest improvements on a variety of time series processing tasks (between 5 to 50% in performance metric depending on the task studied). The novel architecture is guaranteed to perform at least as accurately as a conventional linear readout. It can be utilized as a general purpose readout method when augmentations to performance relative to the standard method is needed.', u'We present a Bayesian method for characterizing the mating system of populations reproducing through a mixture of self-fertilization and random outcrossing.  Our method uses patterns of genetic variation across the genome as a basis for inference about pure hermaphroditism, androdioecy, and gynodioecy.  We extend the standard coalescence model to accommodate these mating systems, accounting explicitly for multilocus identity disequilibrium, inbreeding depression, and variation in fertility among mating types.  We incorporate the Ewens Sampling Formula (ESF) under the infinite-alleles model of mutation to obtain a novel expression for the likelihood of mating system parameters.  Our Markov chain\nMonte Carlo (MCMC) algorithm assigns locus-specific mutation rates, drawn from a common mutation rate distribution that is itself estimated from the data using a Dirichlet Process Prior model.  Among the parameters jointly inferred are the population-wide rate of self-fertilization, locus-specific mutation rates, and the number of generations since the most recent outcrossing event for each sampled individual.', u'Deleterious mutations contribute to polymorphism even when selection effectively prevents their fixation. The efficacy of selection in removing deleterious mitochondrial mutations from populations depends on the effective population size (Ne) of the mtDNA, and the degree to which a lack of recombination magnifies the effects of linked selection. Using complete mitochondrial genomes from Drosophila melanogaster and nuclear data available from the same samples, we re-examine the hypothesis that non-recombining animal mtDNA harbor an excess of deleterious polymorphisms relative to the nuclear genome. We find no evidence of recombination in the mitochondrial genome, and the much-reduced level of mitochondrial synonymous polymorphism relative to nuclear genes is consistent with a reduction in Ne. Nevertheless, we find that the neutrality index (NI), a measure of the excess of nonsynonymous polymorphism relative to the neutral expectation, is not significantly different between mitochondrial and nuclear loci. Reanalysis of published data from Homo sapiens reveals the same lack of a difference between the two genomes, though small samples in previous studies had suggested a strong difference in both species. Thus, despite a smaller Ne, mitochondrial loci of both flies and humans appear to experience similar efficacies of selection as do loci in the recombining nuclear genome.', u'The economy of human genome sequencing has catalyzed ambitious efforts to interrogate the genomes of large cohorts in search of new insight into the genetic basis of disease. This manuscript introduces\nGenotype Query Tools (GQT) as a new indexing strategy and toolset that addresses an analytical bottleneck by enabling interactive analyses based on genotypes, phenotypes and sample relationships. Speed improvements are achieved by operating directly on a compressed genotype index without decompression. GQT?s data compression ratios increase favorably with cohort size and relative analysis performance improves in kind. We demonstrate substantial performance improvements over state-of-theart\ntools using datasets from the 1000 Genomes Project (46 fold), the Exome Aggregation Consortium (443 fold), and simulated datasets of up to 100,000 genomes (218 fold). Furthermore, we show that this\nindexing strategy facilitates population and statistical genetics measures such as principal component analysis and burden tests. Based on its computational efficiency and by complementing existing toolsets,\nGQT provides a flexible framework for current and future analyses of massive genome datasets.', u'Networks  of   excitatory  and  inhibitory neurons   form  the  basic computational  units in  the  mammalian cortex.   Within the  dominant\nparadigm, neurons  in such networks encode and  process information by asynchronously emitting action potentials.  In a recent publication, I\nargued   that    unstructured,   sparsely   connected    networks   of integrate-and-fire  neurons  display  a  transition  between  two\nqualitatively different types of asynchronous activity as the synaptic coupling  is increased.   A comment  by Engelken  et al  (bioRxiv doi: 10.1101/017798)   disputes  this  finding.   Here  I provide   additional   evidence   for   a transition   between   two qualitatively different types of  asynchronous activity and address the criticism raised in the comment.  The claims that the original paper  is  "factually  incorrect"  and "conceptually  misleading"  are unsubstantiated and inappropriate.', u'Pseudomonas aeruginosa is frequently associated with nosocomial infections, including polymicrobial wound infections and the complex biofilm communities that reside within the cystic fibrosis lung. P. aeruginosa utilizes flagellum-mediated motility to approach, attach to, and spread across a surface using a combination of swimming, swarming and twitching (type IV pili extension and retraction) motility. We report an innovative approach to study the motility of single P. aeruginosa cells in microfluidic channels possessing different structural geometry, all with the flexibility of being able to manipulate stiffness gradients and electric fields to investigate changes in motility in response to specific stimuli. P. aeruginosa cells exhibit restricted motility in reduced microchannel spaces, with preferential migration toward a stiffer region in a rigidness gradient of substrate medium and preferential migration toward a positive electrode in presence of a pulsed or successive electric field. This single-cue environmental study using microfluidic technology lays the groundwork for multi-cue experimentation to more faithfully mimic conditions in vivo, demonstrating just some of the advantages of this technique. This study is designed to examine the interplay between surface rigidity, mechanical, and electrical cues to pave the way for improvements in the design of anti-fouling surfaces for biomedical applications and to identify new ways to inhibit bacterial biofilm growth through motility restriction.', u'Cancer cells exhibit high rates of aerobic glycolysis and glutaminolysis. Aerobic glycolysis can provide energy and glutaminolysis can provide carbon for anaplerosis and reductive carboxylation to citrate. However, all these metabolic requirements could be in principle satisfied from glucose. Energy can be generated from oxidative phosphorylation (OxPhos) of glucose, anaplerosis can be accomplished using pyruvate carboxylate and citrate can be derived from glucose. Here we investigate why cancer cells do not satisfy their metabolic demands using aerobic biosynthesis from glucose. Based on the typical composition of a mammalian cell we quantify the energy demand and the OxPhos burden of cell biosynthesis from glucose. Our calculation demonstrates that aerobic growth from glucose is feasible up to a minimum doubling time that is proportional to the OxPhos burden and inversely proportional to the mitochondria OxPhos capacity. To grow faster cancer cells must activate aerobic glycolysis for energy generation and uncouple NADH generation from biosynthesis. To uncouple biosynthesis from NADH generation cancer cells can synthesize lipids from carbon sources that do not produce NADH in their catabolism, including acetate and the amino acids glutamate, glutamine, phenylalanine and tyrosine. Finally, we show that cancer cell lines commonly used in cancer research have an OxPhos capacity that is insufficient to support aerobic biosynthesis from glucose. We conclude that selection for high rate of biosynthesis implies a selection for aerobic glycolysis and uncoupling biosynthesis from NADH generation. Any defect or perturbation reducing the OxPhos capacity will exacerbate this selection.', u'A true engineering framework for synthetic multicellular systems requires a programmable means of cell-cell communication. Such a communication system would enable complex behaviors, such as pattern formation, division of labor in synthetic microbial communities, and improved modularity in synthetic circuits. However, it remains challenging to build synthetic cellular communication systems in eukaryotes due to a lack of molecular modules that are orthogonal to the host machinery, easy to reconfigure, and scalable. Here, we present a novel cell-to-cell communication system in Saccharomyces cerevisiae (yeast) based on CRISPR transcription factors and the plant hormone auxin that exhibits several of these features. Specifically, we engineered a sender strain of yeast that converts indole-3-acetamide (IAM) into auxin via the enzyme iaaH from Agrobacterium tumefaciens. To sense auxin and regulate transcription in a receiver strain, we engineered a reconfigurable library of auxin degradable CRISPR transcription factors (ADCTFs). Auxin-induced degradation is achieved through fusion of an auxin sensitive degron (from IAA co-repressors) to the CRISPR TF and co-expression with an auxin F-box protein. Mirroring the tunability of auxin perception in plants, our family of ADCTFs exhibits a broad range of auxin sensitivities. We characterized the kinetics and steady state behavior of the sender and receiver independently, and in co-cultures where both cell types were exposed to IAM. In the presence of IAM, auxin is produced by the sender cell and triggers de-activation of reporter expression in the receiver cell. The result is an orthogonal, rewireable, tunable, and arguably scalable cell-cell communication system for yeast and other eukaryotic cells.', u'Computational tools are quickly becoming the main bottleneck to analyze large-scale genomic and genetic data. This big-data problem, affecting a wide range of fields, is becoming more acute with the fast increase of data available. To address it, we developed DISSECT, a new, easy to use, and freely available software able to exploit the parallel computer architectures of supercomputers to perform a wide range of genomic and epidemiologic analyses which currently can only be carried out on reduced sample sizes or in restricted conditions. We showcased our new tool by addressing the challenge of predicting phenotypes from genotype data in human populations using Mixed Linear Model analysis. We analyzed simulated traits from half a million individuals genotyped for 590,004 SNPs using the combined computational power of 8,400 processor cores. We found that prediction accuracies in excess of 80% of the theoretical maximum could be achieved with large numbers of training individuals.', u'The occipital face area (OFA) and fusiform face area (FFA) are brain regions thought to be specialized for face perception. However, their intrinsic functional organization and status as cortical areas with well-defined boundaries remains unclear. Here we test these regions for ?faciotopy?, a particular hypothesis about their intrinsic functional organisation. A faciotopic area would contain a face-feature map on the cortical surface, where cortical patches represent face features and neighbouring patches represent features that are physically neighbouring in a face. The faciotopy hypothesis is motivated by the idea that face regions might develop from a retinotopic protomap and acquire their selectivity for face features through natural visual experience. Faces have a prototypical configuration of features, are usually perceived in a canonical upright orientation, and are frequently fixated in particular locations. To test the faciotopy hypothesis, we presented images of isolated face features at fixation to subjects during functional magnetic resonance imaging. The responses in V1 were best explained by low-level image properties of the stimuli. OFA, and to a lesser degree FFA, showed evidence for faciotopic organization. When a single patch of cortex was estimated for each face feature, the cortical distances between the feature patches reflected the physical distance between the features in a face. Faciotopy would be the first example, to our knowledge, of a cortical map reflecting the topology, not of a part of the organism itself (its retina in retinotopy, its body in somatotopy), but of an external object of particular perceptual significance.', u'Heritability analyses of GWAS cohorts have yielded important insights into complex disease architecture, and increasing sample sizes hold the promise of further discoveries. Here, we analyze the genetic architecture of schizophrenia in 49,806 samples from the PGC, and nine complex diseases in 54,734 samples from the GERA cohort. For schizophrenia, we infer an overwhelmingly polygenic disease architecture in which \u226571% of 1Mb genomic regions harbor at least one variant influencing schizophrenia risk. We also observe significant enrichment of heritability in GC-rich regions and in higher-frequency SNPs for both schizophrenia and GERA diseases. In bivariate analyses, we observe significant genetic correlations (ranging from 0.18 to 0.85) among several pairs of GERA diseases; genetic correlations were on average 1.3x stronger than correlations of overall disease liabilities. To accomplish these analyses, we developed a fast algorithm for multi-component, multi-trait variance components analysis that overcomes prior computational barriers that made such analyses intractable at this scale.', u'We report unbiased metagenomic detection of chikungunya virus (CHIKV), Ebola virus (EBOV), and hepatitis C virus (HCV) from four human blood samples by MinION nanopore sequencing coupled to a newly developed, web-based pipeline for real-time bioinformatics analysis on a computational server or laptop(MetaPORE). At titers ranging from 107-108 copies per milliliter, reads to EBOV from two patients with acute hemorrhagic fever and CHIKV from an asymptomatic blood donor were detected within 4 to 10 minutes of data acquisition, while lower titer HCV virus (1x105 copies per milliliter) was detected within 40 minutes. Analysis of mapped nanopore reads alone, despite an average individual error rate of 24% [range 8-49%], permitted identification of the correct viral strain in all 4 isolates, and 90% of the genome of CHIKV was recovered with >98% accuracy. Using nanopore sequencing, metagenomic detection of viral pathogens directly from clinical samples was performed within an unprecedented <6 hours sample-to-answer turnaround time and in a timeframe amenable for actionable clinical and public health diagnostics.', u'Previous Bayesian phylogeographic studies of H5N1 highly pathogenic avian influenza viruses (HPAIVs) explored the origin and spread of the epidemic from China into Russia, indicating that HPAIV circulated in Russia prior to its detection there in 2005. In this study, we extend this research to explore the evolution and spread of HPAIV within Europe during the 2005\u20132010 epidemic, using all available sequences of the HA and NA gene regions that were collected in Europe and Russia during the outbreak. We use discrete-trait phylodynamic models within a Bayesian statistical framework to explore the evolution of HPAIV. Our results indicate that the genetic diversity and effective population size of HPAIV peaked between mid-2005 and early 2006, followed by drastic decline in 2007, which coincides with the end of the epidemic in Europe. Our results also suggest that domestic birds were the most likely source of the spread of the virus from Russia into Europe. Additionally, estimates of viral dispersal routes indicate that Russia, Romania, and Germany were key epicenters of these outbreaks. Our study quantifies the dynamics of a major European HPAIV pandemic and substantiates the ability of phylodynamic models to improve molecular surveillance of novel AIVs.', u"Background\nWe propose an approach to detection of essential proteins required for cancer cell survival. Gene is considered essential if mutation with high functional impact upon function of encoded protein causes death of cancer cell. We draw an analogy between essential cancer proteins and well-known Abraham Wald's work on estimating the plane critical areas using data on survivability of aircraft encountering enemy fire. Wald reasoned that parts hit least on the returned planes are critical and should be protected more. Similarly we propose that genes essential for tumor cell should carry less high-impact mutations in cancer compared to polymorphisms found in normal cells. \n\nResults\n We used data on mutations from the Cancer Genome Atlas and polymorphisms found in healthy humans (from 1000 Genomes Project) to predict 91 protein-coding genes essential for melanoma. These genes were selected according to several criteria including negative selection, expression in melanocytes and decrease in the proportion of high-impact mutations in cancer compared with normal cells.\nGene ontology analysis revealed enrichment of essential proteins related to membrane and cell periphery.  We speculate that this could be a sign of immune system-driven negative selection of cancer neo-antigens. Another finding is overrepresentation of semaphorin receptors, which can mediate distinctive signaling cascades and are involved in various aspects of tumor development. Cytokine receptors CCR5 and CXCR1 were also identified as cancer essential proteins and this is confirmed by other studies. \n\nConclusions\nOverall our goal was to illustrate the idea of detecting proteins whose sequence integrity and functioning is important for cancer cell survival. Hopefully, this prediction of essential cancer proteins may point to new targets for anti-tumor therapies.", u'A fundamental challenge common to studies of animal movement, behavior, and ecology is the collection of high-quality datasets on spatial positions of animals as they change through space and time. Recent innovations in tracking technology have allowed researchers to collect large and highly accurate datasets on animal spatiotemporal position while vastly decreasing the time and cost of collecting such data. One technique that is of particular relevance to the study of behavioral ecology involves tracking visual tags that can be uniquely identified in separate images or movie frames. These tags can be located within images that are visually complex, making them particularly well suited for longitudinal studies of animal behavior and movement in naturalistic environments. While several software packages have been developed that use computer vision to identify visual tags, these software packages are either (a) not optimized for identification of single tags, which is generally of the most interest for biologist, or (b) suffer from licensing issues, and therefore their use in the study of animal behavior has been limited. Here, we present BEEtag, an open-source, image-based tracking system in Matlab that allows for unique identification of individual animals or anatomical markers. The primary advantages of this system are that it (a) independently identifies animals or marked points in each frame of a video, limiting error propagation, (b) performs well in images with complex background, and (c) is low-cost. To validate the use of this tracking system in animal behavior, we mark and track individual bumblebees (Bombus impatiens) and recover individual patterns of space use and activity within the hive. Finally, we discuss the advantages and limitations of this software package and its application to the study of animal movement, behavior, and ecology.', u"In budding yeasts, fermentation in the presence of oxygen evolved around the time of a whole genome duplication (WGD) and is thought to confer dominance in high-sugar environments because ethanol is toxic to many species. While there are many fermentative yeast species, only Saccharomyces cerevisiae consistently dominates wine fermentations. In this study, we use co-culture experiments and intrinsic growth rate assays to examine the relative fitness of non-WGD and WGD yeast species across environments to assess when S. cerevisiae's ability to dominate high-sugar environments arose. We show that S. cerevisiae dominates nearly all other non-WGD and WGD species except for its sibling species S. paradoxus in both grape juice and a high-sugar rich medium. Of the species we tested, S. cerevisiae and S. paradoxus have evolved the highest ethanol tolerance and intrinsic growth rate in grape juice. However, the ability of S. cerevisiae and S. paradoxus to dominate certain species depends on the temperature and the type of high-sugar environment. Our results indicate that dominance of high-sugar environments evolved much more recently than the WGD, most likely just prior to or during the differentiation of Saccharomyces species, and that evolution of multiple traits contributes to S. cerevisiae's ability to dominate wine fermentations.", u'Microarray images consist of thousands of spots, each of which corresponds to a different biological material. The\nmicroarray segmentation problem is to work out which pixels belong to which spots, even in presence of noise and\ncorruption. We propose a solution based on deep neural networks, which achieves excellent results both on simulated\nand experimental data. We have made the source code for our solution available on Github under a permissive license.', u'High-dose chemotherapy has long been advocated as a means of controlling drug resistance in infectious diseases but recent empirical and theoretical studies have begun to challenge this view. We show how high-dose chemotherapy engenders opposing evolutionary processes involving the mutational input of resistant strains and their release from ecological competition. Whether such therapy provides the best approach for controlling resistance therefore depends on the relative strengths of these processes. These opposing processes lead to a unimodal relationship between drug pressure and resistance emergence. As a result, the optimal drug dose always lies at either end of the therapeutic window of clinically acceptable concentrations. We illustrate our findings with a simple model that shows how a seemingly minor change in parameter values can alter the outcome from one where high-dose chemotherapy is optimal to one where using the smallest clinically effective dose is best. A review of the available empirical evidence provides broad support for these general conclusions. Our analysis opens up treatment options not currently considered as resistance management strategies, and greatly simplifies the experiments required to determine the drug doses which best retard resistance emergence in patients.', u'The benefits of implementing high throughput sequencing in the clinic are quickly becoming apparent. However, few freely available bioinformatics pipelines have been built from the ground up with clinical genomics in mind. Here we present Cpipe, a pipeline designed specifically for clinical genetic disease diagnostics. Cpipe was developed by the Melbourne Genomics Health Alliance, an Australian initiative to promote common approaches to genomics across healthcare institutions. As such, Cpipe has been designed to provide fast, effective and reproducible analysis, while also being highly flexible and customisable to meet the individual needs of diverse clinical settings. Cpipe is being shared with the clinical sequencing community as an open source project and is available at http://cpipeline.org.', u'Background\nTranscriptional enhancers are generally known to regulate gene transcription from afar. Their activation involves a series of changes in chromatin marks and recruitment of protein factors. These enhancers may also occur inside genes, but how many may be active in human cells and their effects on the regulation of the host gene remains unclear.\n\nResults\nWe describe a novel semi-supervised method based on the relative enrichment of chromatin signals between 2 conditions to predict active enhancers. We applied this method to the tumoral K562 and the normal GM12878 cell lines to predict enhancers that are differentially active in one cell type. These predictions show enhancer-like properties according to positional distribution, correlation with gene expression and production of enhancer RNAs. Using this model, we predict 10,365 and 9,777 intragenic active enhancers in K562 and GM12878, respectively, and relate the differential activation of these enhancers to expression and splicing differences of the host genes.\n\nConclusions\nWe propose that the activation or silencing of intragenic transcriptional enhancers modulate the regulation of the host gene by means of a local change of the chromatin and the recruitment of enhancer-related factors that may interact with the RNA directly or through the interaction with RNA binding proteins. Predicted enhancers are available at http://regulatorygenomics.upf.edu/Projects/enhancers.html', u'Incomplete lineage sorting can cause incongruencies of the overall species-level phylogenetic tree with the phylogenetic trees for individual genes or genomic segments. \nIf these incongruencies are not accounted for, it is possible to incur several biases in species tree estimation. Here, we present a simple maximum likelihood approach that accounts for ancestral variation and incomplete lineage sorting. We use a POlymorphisms-aware phylogenetic MOdel (PoMo) that we have recently shown to efficiently estimate mutation rates and fixation biases from within and between-species variation data. We extend this model to perform efficient estimation of species trees.\nWe test the performance of PoMo in several different scenarios of incomplete lineage sorting using simulations and compare it with existing methods both in accuracy and computational speed.  In contrast to other approaches, our model does not use coalescent theory but is allele-frequency based. \nWe show that PoMo is well suited for genome-wide species tree estimation and that on such data it is more accurate than previous approaches.', u'We engineered a transdermal neuromodulation approach that targets peripheral (cranial and spinal) nerves and utilizes their afferent pathways as signaling conduits to influence brain function. We investigated the effects of this transdermal electrical neurosignaling (TEN) method on sympathetic physiology in human volunteers under different experimental conditions. In all cases, the TEN involved delivering high-frequency pulsed electrical currents to ophthalmic and maxillary divisions of the right trigeminal nerve (V1/V2) and cervical spinal nerve afferents (C2/C3). Under resting conditions when subjects were not challenged or presented with environmental stimuli, TEN significantly suppressed basal sympathetic tone compared to sham as indicated by functional infrared thermography of facial temperatures. In a different experiment conducted under similar resting conditions, subjects treated with TEN reported significantly lower levels of tension and anxiety on the Profile of Mood States scale compared to sham. In a third experiment when subjects were experimentally stressed by a classical fear conditioning paradigm and a series of time-constrained cognitive tasks, TEN produced a significant suppression of heart rate variability, galvanic skin conductance, and salivary \u03b1-amylase levels compared to sham. Collectively these observations demonstrate TEN can dampen basal sympathetic tone and attenuate sympathetic activity in response to acute stress induction. Our physiological and biochemical observations are consistent with the hypothesis that TEN modulates noradrenergic signaling to suppress sympathetic activity. We conclude that dampening sympathetic activity in such a manner represents a promising approach to managing daily stress.', u'Analysis of Hi-C data has shown that the genome can be divided into two compartments called A/B compartments.  These compartments are cell-type specific and are associated with open and closed chromatin.  We show that A/B compartments can be reliably estimated using epigenetic data from several different platforms, the Illumina 450k DNA methylation microarray, DNase hypersensitivity sequencing, single-cell ATAC sequencing and single-cell whole-genome bisulfite sequencing.  We do this by exploiting the fact that the structure of long range correlations differs between open and closed compartments. This work makes A/B compartments readily available in a wide variety of cell types, including many human cancers.', u'The paleontological record chronicles numerous episodes of mass extinction that severely culled the Tree of Life. Biologists have long sought to assess the extent to which these events may have impacted particular groups. We present a novel method for detecting mass-extinction events from phylogenies estimated from molecular sequence data. We develop our approach in a Bayesian statistical framework, which enables us to harness prior information on the frequency and magnitude of mass-extinction events. The approach is based on an episodic stochastic-branching process model in which rates of speciation and extinction are constant between rate-shift events. We model three types of events: (1) instantaneous tree-wide shifts in speciation rate; (2) instantaneous tree-wide shifts in extinction rate, and; (3) instantaneous tree-wide mass-extinction events. Each of the events is described by a separate compound Poisson process (CPP) model, where the waiting times between each event are exponentially distributed with event-specific rate parameters. The magnitude of each event is drawn from an event-type specific prior distribution. Parameters of the model are then estimated using a reversible-jump Markov chain Monte Carlo (rjMCMC) algorithm. We demonstrate via simulation that this method has substantial power to detect the number of mass-extinction events, provides unbiased estimates of the timing of mass-extinction events, while exhibiting an appropriate (i.e., below 5%) false discovery rate even in the case of background diversification rate variation. Finally, we provide an empirical application of this approach to conifers, which reveals that this group has experienced two major episodes of mass extinction. This new approach?the CPP on Mass Extinction Times (CoMET) model?provides an effective tool for identifying mass-extinction events from molecular phylogenies, even when the history of those groups includes more prosaic temporal variation in diversification rate.', u'A number of methods have been developed for modeling the evolution of a quantitative trait  on a phylogeny.  These methods have received renewed interest in the context of genome-wide studies of gene expression, in which the expression levels of many genes can be modeled as quantitative traits.  We here develop a new method for joint analyses of quantitative traits  within and between-species, the Expression Variance and Evolution (EVE) model.  The model parameterizes the ratio of population to evolutionary expression variance, facilitating  a wide variety of analyses, including a test for lineage-specific shifts in expression level, and a phylogenetic ANOVA that can detect genes with increased or decreased ratios of expression divergence to diversity, analogous to the famous HKA test used to detect selection at the DNA level.  We use simulations to explore the properties of these tests under a variety of circumstances and show that the phylogenetic ANOVA is more accurate than the standard ANOVA (no accounting for phylogeny) sometimes used in transcriptomics.  We then apply the EVE model to a mammalian phylogeny of 15 species typed for expression levels in liver tissue.  We identify genes with high expression divergence between-species as candidates for expression level adaptation, and genes with high expression diversity within-species as candidates for expression level conservation and/or plasticity.  Using the test for lineage-specific expression shifts, we identify several candidate genes for expression level adaptation on the catarrhine and human lineages, including genes putatively related to dietary changes in humans.  We compare these results to those reported previously using a model which ignores expression variance within-species, uncovering important differences in performance.  We demonstrate the necessity for a phylogenetic model in comparative expression studies and show the utility of the EVE model to detect expression divergence, diversity, and branch-specific shifts.', u'Cell-cell intercalation is used in several developmental processes to shape the normal body plan1. There is no clear evidence that intercalation is involved in pathologies. Here, we use the proto-oncogene Myc to study a process analogous to early phase of tumour expansion: Myc-induced cell competition2-7. Cell competition is a conserved mechanism5,6,8,9 driving the elimination of slow proliferating cells (so called losers) by faster proliferating neighbours (so called winners) through apoptosis10 and is important to prevent developmental malformations and maintain tissue fitness11. Using long term live imaging of Myc-driven competition in the Drosophila pupal notum and in the wing imaginal disc, we show that the probability of elimination of loser cells correlates with the surface of contact shared with winners. As such, modifying loser/winner interface morphology can modulate the strength of competition. We further show that elimination of loser clones requires winner/loser cell mixing through cell-cell intercalation. Cell mixing is driven by differential growth and the high tension at winner-winner interfaces relative to winner-loser and loser-loser interfaces, which leads to a preferential stabilisation of winner-loser contacts and reduction of clone compactness over time. Differences in tension are generated by a relative difference of junctional F-actin levels between loser and winner junctions, induced by differential levels of the phosphatidylinositol PIP3. Our results establish the first link between cell-cell intercalation induced by a proto-oncogene and how it promotes invasiveness and destruction of healthy tissues.', u'New DNA sequencing technologies are allowing researchers to explore the genomes of the millions of natural history specimens collected prior to the molecular era. Yet, we know little about how well specific next-generation sequencing (NGS) techniques work with the degraded DNA typically extracted from museum specimens. Here, we use one type of NGS approach, sequence capture of ultraconserved elements (UCEs), to collect data from bird museum specimens as old as 120 years. We targeted approximately 5,000 UCE loci in 27 Western Scrub-Jays (Aphelocoma californica) representing three evolutionary lineages, and we collected an average of 3,749 UCE loci containing 4,460 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). Despite older specimens producing fewer and shorter loci in general, we collected thousands of markers from even the oldest specimens. More sequencing reads per individual helped to boost the number of UCE loci we recovered from older specimens, but more sequencing was not as successful at increasing the length of loci. We detected contamination in some samples and determined contamination was more prevalent in older samples that were subject to less sequencing. For the phylogeny generated from concatenated UCE loci, contamination led to incorrect placement of some individuals. In contrast, a species tree constructed from SNPs called within UCE loci correctly placed individuals into three monophyletic groups, perhaps because of the stricter analytical procedures we used for SNP calling. This study and other recent studies on the genomics of museums specimens have profound implications for natural history collections, where millions of older specimens should now be considered genomic resources.', u'The last 20 years have been a remarkable era for biology and medicine. One of the most significant achievements has been the sequencing of the first human genomes, which has laid the foundation for profound insights into human genetics, the intricacies of regulation and development, and the forces of evolution. Incredibly, as we look into the future over the next 20 years, we see the very real potential for sequencing more than one billion genomes, bringing with it even deeper insights into human genetics as well as the genetics of millions of other species on the planet. Realizing this great potential, though, will only be achieved through the integration and development of highly scalable computational and quantitative approaches can keep pace with the rapid improvements to biotechnology. In this perspective, we aim to chart out these future technologies, anticipate the major themes of research, and call out the challenges ahead. One of the largest shifts will be in the training used to prepare the class of 2035 for their highly interdisciplinary world.', u'Sex determination evolves rapidly, often because of turnover of the genes at the top of the pathway. The house fly, Musca domestica, has a multifactorial sex determination system, allowing us to identify the selective forces responsible for the evolutionary turnover of sex determination in action. There is a male determining factor, M, on the Y chromosome (YM), which is probably the ancestral state. An M factor on the third chromosome (IIIM) has reached high frequencies in multiple populations across the world, but the evolutionary forces responsible for the invasion of IIIM are not resolved. To test if the IIIM chromosome invaded because of sex-specific selection pressures, we used mRNA sequencing to determine if isogenic males that differ only in the presence of the YM or IIIM chromosome have different gene expression profiles. We find that more genes are differentially expressed between YM and IIIM males in testis than head, and that genes with male-biased expression are most likely to be differentially expressed between YM and IIIM males. We additionally find that IIIM males have a "masculinized" gene expression profile, suggesting that the IIIM chromosome has accumulated an excess of male-beneficial alleles because of its male-limited transmission. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that sex-specific selection acts on alleles linked to the male-determining locus driving evolutionary turnover in the sex determination pathway.', u"Recent advances in sequencing technologies have enabled\nthe production of\nmassive amounts of data on somatic mutations from cancer genomes. These data have led to the detection of characteristic patterns of somatic mutations or ``mutation signatures'' at an unprecedented resolution, with the\npotential for new insights into\nthe causes and mechanisms of tumorigenesis.\n\nHere we present new methods for modelling, identifying and visualizing such mutation signatures. Our methods\ngreatly simplify mutation signature models compared with existing approaches, reducing the number of parameters by orders of magnitude even while increasing the contextual factors (e.g. the number of flanking bases) that are accounted for. This improves both sensitivity and robustness of inferred signatures. We also provide a new intuitive way to visualize the signatures, analogous to the use of sequence logos to visualize transcription factor binding sites. \n\nWe illustrate our new method on somatic mutation data from urothelial carcinoma of the upper urinary tract, and a\nlarger dataset from 30 diverse cancer types.\nThe results illustrate several important features\nof our methods, including the ability of our new visualization\ntool to clearly highlight the key features of each signature,\nthe improved robustness of signature inferences from small sample sizes, and more detailed inference of signature characteristics such as strand biases and sequence context effects at the base two positions 5' to the mutated site.\n\nThe overall framework of our work is based on probabilistic models that are closely\nconnected with ``mixed-membership models'' which are widely used in population genetic admixture analysis, and in machine learning for document clustering. We argue that recognizing these relationships should help improve\nunderstanding of mutation signature extraction problems,\nand suggests ways to further improve the statistical methods.\n\nOur methods are implemented in an R package \npmsignature (https://github.com/friend1ws/pmsignature)\nand a web application available at https://friend1ws.shinyapps.io/pmsignature_shiny/.", u'Motif search is an important step in extracting meaningful patterns from biological data. Since the general problem of motif search is intractable, there is a pressing need to develop efficient exact and approximation algorithms to solve this problem. We design novel algorithms for solving the Edit-distance-based Motif Search (EMS) problem: given two integers l,d and n biological strings, find all strings of length l that appear in each input strings with at most d substitutions, insertions and deletions. These algorithms have been evaluated on several challenging instances. Our algorithm solves a moderately hard instance (11,3) in a couple of minutes and the next difficult instance (14,3) in a couple of hours whereas the best previously known algorithm, EMS1, solves (11,3) in a few hours and does not solve (13,4) even after 3 days. This significant improvement is due to a novel and provably efficient neighborhood generation technique introduced in this paper.  This efficient approach can be used in other edit distance based applications in Bioinformatics, such as k-spectrum based sequence error correction algorithms. We also use a trie based data structure to efficiently store the candidate motifs in the neighbourhood and to output the motifs in a sorted order.', u'Understanding the transcriptional regulatory code, as well as other types of information encoded within biomolecular sequences, will require learning biophysical models of sequence-function relationships from high-throughput data. Controlling and characterizing the noise in such experiments, however, is notoriously difficult. The unpredictability of such noise creates problems for standard likelihood-based methods in statistical learning, which require that the quantitative form of experimental noise be known precisely. However, when this unpredictability is properly accounted for, important theoretical aspects of statistical learning which remain hidden in standard treatments are revealed. Specifically, one finds a close relationship between the standard inference method, based on likelihood, and an alternative inference method based on mutual information. Here we review and extend this relationship. We also describe its implications for learning sequence-function relationships from real biological data. Finally, we detail an idealized experiment in which these results can be demonstrated analytically.', u'In this study, we sequenced the genome of P. pnomenusa RB38 and reported the finding of a pair of cognate luxI/R homologs which we firstly coined as ppnI, which is found adjacent to a luxR homolog, ppnR. An additional orphan luxR homolog, ppnR2 was also discovered. Multiple sequence alignment revealed that PpnI is a distinct cluster of AHL synthase compared to those of its nearest phylogenetic neighbor, Burkholderia spp. When expressed heterologously and analysed using high resolution tandem mass spectrometry, PpnI directs the synthesis of N-octanoylhomoserine lactone (C8-HSL). To our knowledge, this is the first documentation of the luxI/R homologs of the genus of Pandoraea.', u'Gene regulation in biological systems is impacted by the cellular and genetic context-dependent effects of the biological parts which comprise the circuit. Here, we have sought to elucidate the limitations of engineering biology from an architectural point of view, with the aim of compiling a set of engineering solutions for overcoming failure modes during the development of complex, synthetic genetic circuits. Using a synthetic biology approach that is supported by computational modelling and rigorous characterisation, AND, OR and NOT biological logic gates were layered in both parallel and serial arrangements to generate a repertoire of Boolean operations that include NIMPLY, XOR, half adder and half subtractor logics in single cell. Subsequent evaluation of these near-digital biological systems revealed critical design pitfalls that triggered genetic context dependent effects, including 5\u2032 UTR interference and uncontrolled switch-on behaviour of \u03c354 promoter. Importantly, this work provides a representative case study to the debugging of genetic context dependent effects through principles elucidated herein, thereby providing a rational design framework to program single prokaryotic cell with diversified digital operations.', u'Biomolecular circuits with two distinct and stable steady states have been identified as essential components in a wide range of biological networks, with a variety of mechanisms and topologies giving rise to their important bistable property. Understanding the differences between circuit implementations is an important question, particularly for the synthetic biologist faced with determining which bistable circuit design out of many is best for their specific application. In this work we explore the applicability of Sturm?s theorem--a tool from 19th-century real algebraic geometry--to comparing ?functionally equivalent? bistable circuits without the need for numerical simulation. We first consider two genetic toggle variants and two different positive feedback circuits, and show how specific topological properties present in each type of circuit can serve to increase the size of the regions of parameter space in which they function as switches. We then demonstrate that a single competitive monomeric activator added to a purely-monomeric (and otherwise monostable) mutual repressor circuit is sufficient for bistability. Finally, we compare our approach with the Routh-Hurwitz method and derive consistent, yet more powerful, parametric conditions. The predictive power and ease of use of Sturm?s theorem demonstrated in this work suggests that algebraic geometric techniques may be underutilized in biomolecular circuit analysis.', u"Mixed models are an effective statistical method for increasing power and avoiding confounding in genetic association studies. \nExisting mixed model methods have been designed for ``pooled'' studies where all individual-level genotype and phenotype data\nare simultaneously visible to a single analyst. \nMany studies follow a ``meta-analysis'' design, \nwherein a large number of independent cohorts share only summary statistics\nwith a central meta-analysis group, and no one person can view individual-level data\nfor more than a small fraction of the total sample.\nWhen using linear regression for GWAS, there is no difference in power between\npooled studies and meta-analyses \\cite{lin2010meta};\nhowever, we show that when using mixed models, \nstandard meta-analysis is much less powerful than mixed model association on a pooled study of equal size.\nWe describe a method that allows meta-analyses to capture almost all of the power\navailable to mixed model association on a pooled study without sharing individual-level genotype data.\nThe added computational cost and analytical complexity of this method is minimal, \nbut the increase in power can be large: \nbased on the predictive performance of polygenic scoring reported in \\cite{wood2014defining} and \\cite{locke2015genetic}, we estimate that the next height and BMI studies could see increases in effective sample size of $\\approx$15\\% and $\\approx$8\\%, respectively.\nLast, we describe how a related technique can be used to increase power in sequencing, \ntargeted sequencing and exome array studies.\n\nNote that these techniques are presently only applicable to randomly ascertained studies and will\nsometimes result in loss of power in ascertained case/control studies.\nWe are developing similar methods for case/control studies, but this is more complicated.", u"Motivation: The correction of sequencing errors contained in Illumina reads derived from genomic DNA is a common pre-processing step in many de novo genome assembly pipelines, and has been shown to improved the quality of resultant assemblies. In contrast, the correction of errors in transcriptome sequence data is much less common, but can potentially yield similar improvements in mapping and assembly quality. This manuscript evaluates several popular read-correction tool's ability to correct sequence errors commonplace to transcriptome derived Illumina reads.\n\nResults: I evaluated the efficacy of correction of transcriptome derived sequencing reads using using several metrics across a variety of sequencing depths. This evaluation demonstrates a complex relationship between the quality of the correction, depth of sequencing, and hardware availability which results in variable recommendations depending on the goals of the experiment, tolerance for false positives, and depth of coverage. Overall, read error correction is an important step in read quality control, and should become a standard part of analytical pipelines.\n\nAvailability: Results are non-deterministically repeatable using AMI:ami-3dae4956 (MacManes EC 2015) and the Makefile available here: https://goo.gl/oVIuE0", u'While the role of 5-methylcytosine has been well studied, the biological role of 5-hydroxymethylcytosine still remains unclear due to the limited methods available for single-base detection of 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC). Here, we present Mirror bisulfite sequencing detects 5-hydroxymethylcytosines at a single CpG site by synthesizing a DNA strand to mirror the parental strand. This semi-conservative duplex is sequentially treated with \u03b2-glucosyltransferase and M.SssI methylase. A glucosyl-5hmCpG in the parental strand inhibits methylation of the mirroring CpG site, and after bisulfite conversion, a thymine in the mirroring strand indicates a 5hmCpG site in the parental strand whereas a cytosine indicates a non-5hmC site. Using this method, the 5hmC levels of various human tissues and paired liver tissues were mapped genome-wide.', u'Summary: The plain text Sequence Alignment/Map (SAM) file format and its companion binary form (BAM) are a generic alignment format for storing read alignments against reference sequences (and unmapped reads) together with structured meta-data (Li et al., 2009). Driven by the needs of the 1000 Genomes Project which sequenced many individual human genomes, early SAM/BAM usage focused on pairwise alignments of reads to a reference. However, through the CIGAR P operator multiple sequence alignments can also be preserved. Herein we describe clarifications and additions in version 1.5 of the specification to facilitate storing de novo sequence alignments: Padded reference sequences (with gap characters), annotation of reads or regions of the reference, and the option of embedding the reference sequence within the file.\n\nAvailability: The latest public release of the specification is at http://samtools.sourceforge.net/SAM1.pdf, with in development drafts at https://github.com/samtools/hts-specs/ under version control.', u'Genotype List (GL) Strings use a set of hierarchical character delimiters to represent allele and genotype ambiguity in HLA and KIR genotypes in a complete and accurate fashion. A RESTful web service called Genotype List Service was created to allow users to register a GL String and receive a unique identifier for that string in the form of a URI. By exchanging URIs and dereferencing them through the GL Service, users can easily transmit HLA genotypes in a variety of useful formats. The GL Service was developed to be secure, scalable, and persistent. An instance of the GL Service is configured with a nomenclature and can be run in strict or non-strict modes.  Strict mode requires alleles used in the GL String to be present in the allele database using the fully qualified nomenclature.  Non-strict mode allows any GL String to be registered as long as it is syntactically correct.  The GL Service source code is free and open source software, distributed under the GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL) version 3 or later.', u'We elaborate a framework for investigating the evolutionary history of morphological characters. We argue that morphological character trees generated by phylogenetic analysis of transcriptomes provide a useful tool for identifying causal gene expression differences underlying the development and evolution of morphological characters. They also enable rigorous testing of different models of morphological character evolution and origination, including the hypothesis that characters originate via divergence of repeated ancestral characters. Finally, morphological character trees provide evidence that character transcriptomes undergo concerted evolution. We argue that concerted evolution of transcriptomes can explain the so-called ?species-specific clustering? found in several recent comparative transcriptome studies. The species signal is the phenomenon that transcriptomes cluster by species rather than character type, even though the characters are older than the respective species.  We suggest that concerted gene expression evolution results from mutations that alter gene regulatory network interactions shared by the characters under comparison. Thus, character trees generated from transcriptomes allow us to investigate the variational independence, or individuation, of morphological characters at the level of genetic programs.', u'The now iconic moose of Isle Royale National Park arrived on the island sometime between 1910 and 1915.  Prior to that period there is no evidence of moose in either naturalist reports or in the archaeological history of the island.  Early naturalists\u2014while observing the moose during their first 20 years on the island\u2014noted both their dramatic expansion, and equally dramatic population crash in the 1930s, see Figure 1. Around 1950, and just as the moose were rebounding, wolves crossed a frozen Lake Superior and began what is now one of our most emblematic predator/prey systems.  Recently, the wolves on Isle Royale appear headed for local extinction.  Calls to repopulate the island have renewed the vigorous debate surrounding what is and what is not wild about Isle Royale.', u'One of the major goals of population genetics is to quantitatively understand variation of genetic polymorphisms among individuals.  To this end, researchers have developed sophisticated statistical methods to capture the complex population structure that underlies observed genotypes in humans, and such methods have been effective for analyzing modestly sized genomic data sets.  However, the number of genotyped humans has grown significantly in recent years, and it is accelerating.  In aggregate about 1M individuals have been genotyped to date.  Analyzing these data will bring us closer to a nearly complete picture of human genetic variation; but existing methods for population genetics analysis do not scale to data of this size.  To solve this problem we developed TeraStructure.  TeraStructure is a new algorithm to fit Bayesian models of genetic variation in human populations on tera-sample-sized data sets (1012 observed genotypes, e.g., 1M individuals at 1M SNPs). It is a principled approach to Bayesian inference that iterates between subsampling locations of the genome and updating an estimate of the latent population structure of the individuals. On data sets of up to 2K individuals, TeraStructure matches the existing state of the art in terms of both speed and accuracy. On simulated data sets of up to 10K individuals, TeraStructure is twice as fast as existing methods and has higher accuracy in recovering the latent population structure. On genomic data simulated at the tera-sample-size scales, TeraStructure continues to be accurate and is the only method that can complete its analysis.', u'Transcription activator-like effector nucleases (TALENs) open up new opportunities for targeted mutagenesis in eukaryotic genomes. Similar to zinc-finger nucleases, sequence-specific DNA-binding domains can be fused with effector domains like the nucleolytically active part of FokI in order to induce double strand breaks (DSBs) and thereby modify the host genome on a predefined target site via non-homologous end joining. More sophisticated applications of programmable endonucleases involve the use of a DNA repair template facilitating homology-directed repair (HDR) so as to create predefined rather than random DNA sequence modifications. The aim of this study was to demonstrate the feasibility of editing the barley genome by precisely modifying a defined target DNA sequence resulting in a predicted alteration of gene function. We used gfp-specific TALENs along with a repair template that, via HDR, facilitates conversion of gfp into yfp which is associated with a single amino acid exchange in the gene product. As a result of co-bombardment of leaf epidermis, we detected YFP accumulation in about 3 out of 100 mutated cells. The creation of a functional yfp gene via HDR was unambiguously confirmed by sequencing of the respective genomic site. Predictable genetic modifications comprising only a few genomic base pairs rather than entire genes are of particular practical relevance, because they might not fall under the European regulation of genetically engineered organisms. In addition to the allele conversion accomplished in planta, a readily screenable marker system is introduced that might be useful for optimization approaches in the field of genome editing.', u'Population dynamics is a central component of demography and critical for meta-population management, especially of endangered species. We employed complete individual life records to construct census data for a reintroduced black rhinoceros population over 22 years from its founding and investigated that population\u2019s dynamics to inform black rhinoceros meta-population management practice and, more generally, megaherbivore ecology. Akaike\u2019s information criterion applied to scalar models of population growth based on the generalized logistic unambiguously selected an exponential growth model (r = 0.102 \xb1 0.017), indicating a highly successful reintroduction, but yielding no evidence of density dependence. This result is consistent with, but does not confirm, the threshold model of density dependence that has influenced black rhinoceros meta-population management. Our analysis did support previous work contending that the generalized logistic is unreliable when fit to data that do not sample the entire range of possible population sizes. A stage-based matrix model of the exponential population dynamics exhibited mild transient behaviour. We found no evidence of environmental stochasticity, consistent with our previous studies of this population that found no influence of rainfall on demographic parameters. Process noise derived from demographic stochasticity, principally reflected in annual sex-specific recruitment numbers that differed from deterministic predictions of the matrix model. Demographically driven process noise should be assumed to be a component of megaherbivore population dynamics, as these populations are typically relatively small, and should be considered in managed removals and introductions. We suggest that an extended period of exponential growth is common for megaherbivore populations growing from small size and that an increase in age at first reproduction with increasing population size, manifest in the study population, may provide a warning of density feedback prior to detectable slowing of population growth rate for megaherbivores .', u'In a recent article, Nelson-Sathi et al. [NS] report that the origins of Major Archaeal Lineages [MAL] correspond to massive group-specific gene acquisitions via horizontal gene transfer (HGT) from bacteria (Nelson-Sathi et al., 2015, Nature 517(7532):77-80). If correct, this would have fundamental implications for the process of diversification in microbes. However, a re-examination of these data and results shows that the methodology used by NS systematically inflates the number of genes acquired at the root of each MAL, and incorrectly assumes bacterial origins for these genes. A re-analysis of their data with appropriate phylogenetic models accounting for the dynamics of gene gain and loss between lineages supports the continuous acquisition of genes over long periods in the evolution of Archaea.', u'When facing recalcitrant pollutants, soil bacteria exploit noise of catabolic promoters for deploying environmentally beneficial phenotypes such as metabolic bet-hedging an/or division of biochemical labor. While the origin of such noise in terms of upstream promoter-regulator interplay is hardly understood, its dynamics has to be somehow encrypted in the patterns of flow-cytometry data delivered by transcriptional reporter fusions. On this background, we have examined the behaviour of the Pm promoter of the environmental bacterium  Pseudomonas putida and its cognate 3-methylbenzoate-responsive regulator XylS under different conditions by following expression of Pm-GFP fusions in single cells. Using mathematical modeling and computational simulations we elucidated the kinetic properties of the system and use them as a baseline code to interpret the observed fluorescence output in terms of upstream regulator variability. Transcriptional noise was predicted to depend on the intracellular physical distance between the regulator source (where the e.g. XylS is being produced in the cells) and the target promoter. Experiments with engineered bacteria where this distance is either minimized or enlarged proved the effects of proximity on noise patterns as predicted by the model. This approach not only allowed deconvolution of cytometry data into mechanistic information on the gene expression flow. But it also provided a mechanistic basis for selecting a given level of noise in engineered regulatory nodes e.g. in Synthetic Biology constructs.', u'The ability to precisely modify the genome in a site-specific manner is extremely useful.  The CRISPR/Cas9 system facilitates precise modifications by generating RNA-guided double-strand breaks.  We demonstrate that guide RNA pairs generate deletions that are repaired with a high level of precision by non-homologous end-joining in mammalian cells.  We present a method called knock-in blunt ligation for exploiting this excision and repair to insert exogenous sequences in a homology-independent manner without loss of additional nucleotides.  We successfully utilize this method in a human immortalized cell line and induced pluripotent stem cells to insert fluorescent protein cassettes into various loci, with efficiencies up to 35.8% in HEK293 cells.  We also present a version of Cas9 fused to the FKBP12-L106P destabilization domain for investigating repair dynamics of Cas9-induced double-strand breaks.  Our in vivo blunt-end cloning method and destabilization-domain-fused Cas9 variant increase the repertoire of precision genome engineering approaches.', u"We performed a genome-wide scan for genetic variants that influence multiple human phenotypes by comparing large genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of 40 traits or diseases, including anthropometric traits (e.g. nose size and male pattern baldness), immune traits (e.g. susceptibility to childhood ear infections and Crohn's disease), metabolic phenotypes (e.g. type 2 diabetes and lipid levels), and psychiatric diseases (e.g. schizophrenia and Parkinson's disease). First, we identified 307 loci (at a false discovery rate of 10%) that influence multiple traits (excluding \u201ctrivial\u201d phenotype pairs like type 2 diabetes and fasting glucose). Several loci influence a large number of phenotypes; for example, variants near the blood group gene ABO influence eleven of these traits, including risk of childhood ear infections (rs635634: log-odds ratio = 0.06, P = 1.4 \xd7 10\u22128) and allergies (log-odds ratio = 0.05, P = 2.5 \xd7 10\u22128), among others. Similarly, a nonsynonymous variant in the zinc transporter SLC39A8 influences seven of these traits, including risk of schizophrenia (rs13107325: log-odds ratio = 0.15, P = 2 \xd7 10\u221212) and Parkinson\u2019s disease (log-odds ratio = -0.15, P = 1.6 \xd7 10\u22127), among others. Second, we used these loci to identify traits that share multiple genetic causes in common. For example, genetic variants that delay age of menarche in women also, on average, delay age of voice drop in men, decrease body mass index (BMI), increase adult height, and decrease risk of male pattern baldness. Finally, we identified four pairs of traits that show evidence of a causal relationship. For example, we show evidence that increased BMI causally increases triglyceride levels, and that increased liability to hypothyroidism causally decreases adult height.", u'Abstract The Luria-Delbr\xfcck experiment is a cornerstone of evolutionary theory, demonstrating the randomness of mutations before selection. The distribution of the number of mutants in this experiment has been the subject of intense investigation during the last 70 years. Despite this considerable effort, most of the results have been obtained under the assumption of constant growth rate, which is far from the experimental condition. We derive here the properties of this distribution for arbitrary growth function, for both the deterministic and stochastic growth of the mutants. The derivation we propose is surprisingly simple and versatile, allowing many generalizations to be taken easily into account.', u'The understanding of the mechanisms that allow the origin of species has shed light on many processes\nsuch as speciation, adaptation and extinction, but how to explain the existence of such a huge diversity of species on Earth still remains a mystery. Many theories and evidence have corroborated the processes that allow species to evolve or become extinct. Currently there are different hypotheses but no clear demonstrations of the factors that maintain the species diversity of ecosystems. Those based on competitive principles have been criticized from both theoretical and empirical approaches. Only by studying biodiversity in the context of evolution, natural history and ecology (taking into consideration the avoidance of competition and dispersal abilities, the phenotypic plasticity, the heterogeneous landscape, the facilitation and the endogenosymbiosis) we can understand values and gaps of past theories trying to provide a broader understanding of life on Earth towards a Unified Theory of Biodiversity.', u'Understanding shallow water lakes is important because they are not only subjected to a number of natural and anthropogenic stressors but are also able to switch from clear states with high levels of biodiversity to dominance by suspended sediments, phytoplankton, or floating plants. Such switches are often influenced by high levels of nitrogen deposition, which may reduce the diversity of submerged plant communities, suppressing benthic animal and plant life. Therefore, it is important to predict potential effects of nitrogen on such a change.   \nI modeled competition for light and nutrients between floating and submerged plants under low and high nutrient levels. Both types of plants were randomly chosen in their trait space by varying their average trait values by +/-25%.\nSurprisingly, I found that submerged plants could perform better under high nitrogen by having substantial growth rates. Further, I found that responsiveness to nitrogen deposition is greater in shallow lakes with low biomass than high biomass. My results suggest that shallow lakes with low productivity may respond strongly to nitrogen deposition. Moreover, albedo may increase in the future over shallow lakes. Thus, future warming over shallow lakes may be higher than current predictions. Earth System Models should allow the trait values of submerged and floating plants to vary when making predictions about future climatic conditions.', u'Gene expression is precisely controlled in time and space through the integration of signals that act at gene promoters and gene-distal enhancers. Classically, promoters and enhancers are considered separate classes of regulatory elements, often distinguished by histone modifications. However, recent studies have revealed broad similarities between enhancers and promoters, blurring the distinction: active enhancers often initiate transcription, and some gene promoters have the potential of enhancing transcriptional output of other promoters. Here, we propose a model in which promoters and enhancers are considered a single class of functional element, with a unified architecture for transcription initiation. The context of interacting regulatory elements, and surrounding sequences, determine local transcriptional output as well as the enhancer and promoter activities of individual elements.', u'Aim \nWe studied different species of gooseneck barnacles from the globally distributed rafting genus Lepas to examine whether the most widespread species are true cosmopolitans and to explore the factors influencing the phylogeny and biogeography of these epipelagic rafters.\nLocation Temperate and tropical parts of the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indic oceans.\nMethods \nWe used a phylogenetic approach based on mitochondrial 16S and coI sequences, and the nuclear 18S gene to elucidate patterns of inter- and intra-species divergence. Altogether, five species of Lepas from 18 confined regions of the Atlantic, Pacific and Indic oceans were analyzed.\nResults \nA combination of nuclear and mitochondrial sequences provided robust phylogenetic signals for biogeographic classification of subgroups in Lepas species. Lepas australis, restricted to cold-temperate waters of the southern hemisphere shows two separate populations in the southern hemisphere (coastal Chile, other circum- Antarctic sampling sites) most probably related to temperature differences in the southern Pacific current systems. A more complex differentiation is seen for the cosmopolitan L. anatifera that thrives in warmer waters. In total, it is differentiated in four regional subgroups (coastal Chile, Oregon, Indopacific in general, Atlantic) and a global group, which might be either an ancient stemgroup, but more probably is an anthropogenic artefact. Separation into subgroups likely reflect geological vicariance effects. For Lepas, these were closure of the Isthmus of Panama, installation of the cool Benguela Current in the later Miocene including its persistence into the Present, Pleistocene current systems in the western Pacific differing from today, and in general lowered Pleistocene temperatures, and finally present-day current systems. The extreme ecologicalgeneralists L. anserifera and L. pectinata are not differentated according to available data and might represent true global species. Data for L. testudinata remain ambiguous.\nMain conclusions \nOur data indicate cryptic speciation in some but not all species of the cosmopolitan epipelagic genus Lepas. Regional distribution of genetically different populations rely on a wealth of in part interacting inherited geological factors and modern traits. Controlling factors differ between species according to their ecospace limits and demonstrate the need for studies on species level to avoid unjustified generalizations. Data indicate that allopatric speciation is the main mode of divergence. True global species, if existent at all, need to be extreme ecological generalists, like Lepas pectinata and L. anserifera.', u'Formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue samples represent a potentially invaluable resource for transcriptomic-based research into the molecular basis of disease. However, use of FFPE samples in gene expression studies has been limited by technical challenges resulting from degradation of nucleic acids. Here we evaluated gene expression profiles derived from fresh-frozen (FRO) and FFPE mouse liver tissues using two DNA microarray protocols and two whole transcriptome sequencing (RNA-seq) library preparation methodologies. The ribo-depletion protocol outperformed the other three methods by having the highest correlations of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and best overlap of pathways between FRO and FFPE groups. We next tested the effect of sample time in formalin (18 hours or 3 weeks) on gene expression profiles. Hierarchical clustering of the datasets indicated that test article treatment, and not preservation method, was the main driver of gene expression profiles. Meta- and pathway analyses indicated that biological responses were generally consistent for 18-hour and 3-week FFPE samples compared to FRO samples. However, clear erosion of signal intensity with time in formalin was evident, and DEG numbers differed by platform and preservation method. Lastly, we investigated the effect of age in FFPE block on genomic profiles. RNA-seq analysis of 8-, 19-, and 26-year-old control blocks using the ribo-depletion protocol resulted in comparable quality metrics, including expected distributions of mapped reads to exonic, UTR, intronic, and ribosomal fractions of the transcriptome. Overall, our results suggest that FFPE samples are appropriate for use in genomic studies in which frozen samples are not available, and that ribo-depletion RNA-seq is the preferred method for this type of analysis in archival and long-aged FFPE samples.', u'Artemisinin resistant Plasmodium falciparum is advancing across Southeast Asia in a soft selective sweep involving at least 20 independent kelch13 mutations. In a large global survey, we find that kelch13 mutations which cause resistance in Southeast Asia are present at low frequency in Africa. We show that African kelch13 mutations have originated locally, and that kelch13 shows a normal variation pattern relative to other genes in Africa, whereas in Southeast Asia there is a great excess of non\u2010synonymous mutations, many of which cause radical amino\u2010acid changes. Thus, kelch13 is not currently undergoing strong selection in Africa, despite a deep reservoir of standing variation that could potentially allow resistance to emerge rapidly. The practical implications are that public health surveillance for artemisinin resistance should not rely on kelch13 data alone, and interventions to prevent resistance must account for local evolutionary conditions, shown by genomic epidemiology to differ greatly between geographical regions.', u'Sex chromosomes evolve distinctive types of chromatin from a pair of ancestral autosomes that are usually euchromatic. In Drosophila, the dosage-compensated X becomes enriched for hyperactive chromatin in males (mediated by H4K16ac), while the Y chromosome acquires silencing heterochromatin (enriched for H3K9me2/3). Drosophila autosomes are typically mostly euchromatic but the small dot chromosome has evolved a heterochromatin-like milieu (enriched for H3K9me2/3) that permits the normal expression of dot-linked genes, but which is different from typical pericentric heterochromatin. In Drosophila busckii, the dot chromosomes have fused to the ancestral sex chromosomes, creating a pair of \u2018neo-sex\u2019 chromosomes. Here we collect genomic, transcriptomic and epigenomic data from D. busckii, to investigate the evolutionary trajectory of sex chromosomes from a largely heterochromatic ancestor. We show that the neo-sex chromosomes formed <1 million years ago, but nearly 60% of neo-Y linked genes have already become non-functional. Expression levels are generally lower for the neo-Y alleles relative to their neo-X homologs, and the silencing heterochromatin mark H3K9me2, but not H3K9me3, is significantly enriched on silenced neo-Y genes. Despite rampant neo-Y degeneration, we find that the neo-X is deficient for the canonical histone modification mark of dosage compensation (H4K16ac), relative to autosomes or the compensated ancestral X chromosome, possibly reflecting constraints imposed on evolving hyperactive chromatin in an originally heterochromatic environment. Yet, neo-X genes are transcriptionally more active in males, relative to females, suggesting the evolution of incipient dosage compensation on the neo-X. Our data show that Y degeneration proceeds quickly after sex chromosomes become established through genomic and epigenetic changes, and are consistent with the idea that the evolution of sex-linked chromatin is influenced by its ancestral configuration.', u'Role of microRNAs in gene regulation has been well established. Though the number of genes appear to be equal between human and zebrafish, miRNAs detected in zebrafish (~247) is significantly low compared to human (~2000; miRBase Release 19). It appears that most of the miRNAs in zebrafish are yet to be discovered. Using next generation sequencing technology, we sequenced small RNAs from brain, gut, liver, ovary, testis, eye, heart and embryo of zebrafish.  In few tissues (brain, gut, liver) sequencing was done sex specifically. About 16-62% of the sequenced reads mapped to known miRNAs of zebrafish, with the exceptions of ovary (5.7%) and testis (7.8%). We used miRDeep2, the miRNA predication tool, to discover the novel miRNAs using the un-annotated reads that ranged from 7.6 to 23.0%, with exceptions of ovary (51.4%) and testis (55.2%) that had the largest pool of un-annotated reads. The prediction tool identified a total of 459 novel pre-miRNAs. Comparison of miRNA expression data of the tissues showed the presence of tissue and sex specific miRNAs that could serve as biomarkers. The brain and liver had highest number of tissue specific (36) and sex specific (34) miRNAs, respectively. Taken together, we have made a comprehensive approach to identify tissue and sex specific miRNAs from zebrafish. Further, we have discovered 459 novel pre-miRNAs (~30% homology to human miRNA) as additional genomic resource for zebrafish. This resource can facilitate further investigations to understand miRNA-mRNA gene regulatory network in zebrafish which will have implications to understand human miRNA function.', u'Species delimitation is problematic in many taxa due to the difficulty of evaluating predictions from species delimitation hypotheses, which chiefly relay on subjective interpretations of morphological observations and/or DNA sequence data. This problem is exacerbated in recalcitrant taxa for which genetic resources are scarce and inadequate to resolve questions regarding evolutionary relationships and uniqueness. In this case study we demonstrate the empirical utility of restriction site associated DNA sequencing (RAD-seq) by unambiguously resolving phylogenetic relationships among recalcitrant octocoral taxa with divergences greater than 80 million years. We objectively infer robust species boundaries in the genus Paragorgia, which contains some of the most important ecosystem engineers in the deep-sea, by testing alternative taxonomy-guided or unguided species delimitation hypotheses using the Bayes factors delimitation method (BFD*) with genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphism data. We present conclusive evidence rejecting the current morphological species delimitation model for the genus Paragorgia and indicating the presence of cryptic species boundaries associated with environmental variables. We argue that the suitability limits of RAD-seq for phylogenetic inferences in divergent taxa cannot be assessed in terms of absolute time, but depend on taxon-specific factors such as mutation rate, generation time and effective population size. We show that classic morphological taxonomy can greatly benefit from integrative approaches that provide objective tests to species delimitation hypothesis. Our results pave the way for addressing further questions in biogeography, species ranges, community ecology, population dynamics, conservation, and evolution in octocorals and other marine taxa.', u'Parasite effector proteins target various host cell compartments to alter host processes and promote infection. How effectors cross membrane-rich interfaces to reach these compartments is a major question in effector biology. Growing evidence suggests that effectors use molecular mimicry to subvert host cell machinery for protein sorting. We recently identified CTP1 (chloroplast-targeted protein 1), a candidate effector from the poplar leaf rust fungus Melampsora larici-populina that carries a predicted transit peptide and accumulates in chloroplasts. Here, we show that the CTP1 transit peptide is necessary and sufficient for accumulation in the stroma of chloroplasts, and is cleaved after translocation. CTP1 is part of a Melampsora-specific family of polymorphic secreted proteins whose members translocate and are processed in chloroplasts in a N-terminal signal-dependent manner. Our findings reveal that fungi have evolved effector proteins that mimic plant-specific sorting signals to traffic within plant cells.', u'Development, homeostasis and regeneration of tissues result from the interaction of genetics and mechanics. Kinematics and rheology are two main classes of measurements respectively providing deformations and mechanical properties of a material. They are now applied to living tissues and have contributed to the better understanding of their mechanics. Due to the complexity of living tissues, however, a third class of mechanical measurements, that of in situ forces and stresses, appears to be increasingly important to elaborate realistic models of tissue mechanics. We review here several emerging techniques of this class, their fields of applications, their advantages and limitations, and their validations. We argue that they will strongly impact on our understanding of developmental biology in the near future.', u'The identification of gene-gene and gene-environment interaction in human traits and diseases is an active area of research that generates high expectation, and most often lead to high disappointment.  This is partly explained by a misunderstanding of some of the inherent characteristics of interaction effects. Here, I untangle several theoretical aspects of standard regression-based interaction tests in genetic association studies. In particular, I discuss variables coding scheme, interpretation of effect estimate, power, and estimation of variance explained in regard of various hypothetical interaction patterns. I show first that the simplest biological interaction models\u2014in which the magnitude of a genetic effect depends on a common exposure\u2014are among the most difficult to identify. Then, I demonstrate the demerits of the current strategy to evaluate the contribution of interaction effects to the variance of quantitative outcomes and argue for the use of new approaches to overcome these issues. Finally I explore the advantages and limitations of multivariate models when testing for interaction between multiple SNPs and/or multiple exposures, using either a joint test, or a test of interaction based on risk score. Theoretical and simulated examples presented along the manuscript demonstrate that the application of these methods can provide a new perspective on the role of interaction in multifactorial traits.', u'An in vitro S30-based Escherichia coli expression system (\u201cTranscription-Translation\u201d, or \u201cTX-TL\u201d) has been developed as an alternative prototyping environment to the cell for synthetic circuits [1-5].  Basic circuit elements, such as switches and cascades, have been shown to function in TX-TL, as well as bacteriophage assembly [2, 6]. Circuits can also be prototyped from basic parts within 8 hours, avoiding cloning and transformation steps [7]. However, most published results have been obtained in a \u201cbatch mode\u201d reaction, where factors that play an important role for in vivo circuit dynamics \u2013 namely protein degradation and protein dilution \u2013 are severely hindered or are not present. This limits the complexity of circuits built in TX-TL without steady-state or continuous-flow solutions [8-10].  However, alternate methods that enable dilution either require extra equipment and expertise or demand lower reaction throughput. \n\nWe explored the possibility of supplementing TX-TL with ClpXP, an AAA+ protease pair that selectively degrades tagged proteins [11], to provide finely-tuned degradation. The mechanism of ClpXP degradation has been extensively studied both in vitro and in vivo [12-15]. However, it has not been characterized for use in synthetic circuits \u2013 metrics such as toxicity, ATP usage, degradation variation over time, and cellular loading need to be determined. In particular, TX-TL in batch mode is known to be resource limited [16], and ClpXP is known to require significant amounts of ATP to unfold different protein targets [17, 18]. We find that ClpXP\u2019s protein degradation dynamics is dependent on protein identity, but can be determined experimentally. Degradation follows Michaels-Menten kinetics, and can be fine tuned by ClpX or ClpP concentration. Added purified ClpX is also not toxic to TX-TL reactions. Therefore, ClpXP provides a controllable way to introduce protein degradation and dynamics into synthetic circuits in TX-TL.', u'Though powerful, short-read high throughput RNA sequencing is limited in its ability to directly measure exon connectivity in mRNAs containing multiple alternative exons located farther apart than the maximum read lengths. Here, we use the Oxford Nanopore MinION\u2122 sequencer to identify 7,899 \u2018full-length\u2019 isoforms expressed from four Drosophila genes, Dscam1, MRP, Mhc, and Rdl. These results demonstrate that nanopore sequencing can be used to deconvolute individual isoforms and that it has the potential to be an important method for comprehensive transcriptome characterization.', u"The use of genetic polymorphism data to understand the dynamics of adaptation and identify the loci that are involved has become a major pursuit of modern evolutionary genetics. In addition to the classical ``hard sweep'' hitchhiking model, recent research has drawn attention to the fact that the dynamics of adaptation can play out in a variety of different ways, and that the specific signatures left behind in population genetic data may depend somewhat strongly on these dynamics. One particular model for which a large number of empirical examples are already known is that in which a single derived mutation arises and drifts to some low frequency before an environmental change causes the allele to become beneficial and sweeps to fixation. Here, we pursue an analytical investigation of this model, bolstered and extended via simulation study. We use coalescent theory to develop an analytical approximation for the effect of a sweep from standing variation on the genealogy at the locus of the selected allele and sites tightly linked to it. We show that the distribution of haplotypes that the selected allele is present on at the time of the environmental change can be approximated by considering recombinant haplotypes as alleles in the infinite alleles model. We show that this approximation can be leveraged to make accurate predictions regarding patterns of genetic polymorphism following such a sweep. We then use simulations to highlight which sources of haplotypic information are likely to be most useful in distinguishing this model from neutrality, as well as from other sweep models, such as the classic hard sweep, and multiple mutation soft sweeps. We find that in general, adaptation from a uniquely derived standing variant will be difficult to detect on the basis of genetic polymorphism data alone, and when it can be detected, it will be difficult to distinguish from other varieties of selective sweeps.", u"Background. The adduction of the first pedal ray in humans, such that the hallux is incapable of functional opposability, is a major feature of the evolution of the hominin foot (e.g. Darwin 1872, Haeckel 1879, Latimer and Lovejoy 1990).  While hallucal adduction facilitates obligate bipedalism, it inhibits but does not eliminate arboreal grasping ability.  The angle of the hallux (as determined by the longitudinal axis of the first metatarsal) relative to the rest of the foot (as determined by the longitudinal axis of the second metatarsal) is a product of both hard- and soft- tissues.  Given the failure of soft tissue to fossilize, direct evidence for hallucal angle evolution is scanty, and consensus has not emerged as to when and how the modern human condition of hallucal non-opposability evolved.\n\nMethodology/Principal Findings. Analysis of a large sample (n = 331) of radiographs taken from the dorsal aspect of living human feet elucidates the relationship between osteological measures and the magnitude of hallucal adduction, which is resultant of both hard- and soft-tissue anatomy (Lovejoy et al. 2009).  I describe the correlation of hallucal convergence with first metatarsal posterior articular facet morphology, which allows inference of hallucal convergence in the absence of the medial cuneiform.   I report parameters of modern human hallucal convergence variation and offer insight into the hominin fossil record.  I infer that the hallucal convergence of the recently reported specimen from Burtele (BRT-VP-2/73) falls within the range of living human variation, inconsistent with the interpretation that this hominin retained the ability to oppose its great toe for the purpose of arboreal locomotion (Haile-Selassie et al. 2012).  Of the fossil hominin first metatarsals surveyed, all fall within the range of living human variation, consistent with previous research on medial cuneiform (McHenry and Jones 2006) and first metatarsal (Berillon 1999) morphology.\n\nConclusions/Significance. This study finds that the modern human condition of hallucal non-opposability was present in the genus Australopithecus.  However, while the Burtele specimen (BRT-VP-2/73) falls within the range of living human variation, it displays a markedly divergent hallux compared to most living humans.  This study suggests that, as in humans today, there was variation in hallucal divergence in Plio-Pleistocene hominins.  Rather than using the terms 'opposability' and the ambiguously synonymous 'grasping,' I suggest here the term 'clamping' (as in the motion performed by a clamp) be used to describe the less powerful and less dexterous ability of modern humans to place and hold a thin, narrow object between the great toe and second toe ray in a limited, albeit functional, manner.", u"Attention is commonly thought to improve behavioral performance by increasing response gain and suppressing shared variability in neuronal populations. However, both the focus and the strength of attention are likely to vary from one experimental trial to the next, thereby inducing response variability unknown to the experimenter. Here we study analytically how fluctuations in attentional state affect the structure of population responses in a simple model of spatial and feature attention. In our model, attention acts on the neural response exclusively by modulating each neuron's gain. Neurons are conditionally independent given the stimulus and the attentional gain, and correlated activity arises only from trial-to-trial fluctuations of the attentional state, which are unknown to the experimenter. We find that this simple model can readily explain many aspects of neural response modulation under attention, such as increased response gain, reduced individual and shared variability, increased correlations with firing rates, limited range correlations, and differential correlations. We therefore suggest that attention may act primarily by increasing response gain of individual neurons without affecting their correlation structure. The experimentally observed reduction in correlations may instead result from reduced variability of the attentional gain when a stimulus is attended. Moreover, we show that attentional gain fluctuations \u2013 even if unknown to a downstream readout \u2013 do not impair the readout accuracy despite inducing limited-range correlations.", u'Gene expression is intrinsically stochastic due to the small number of molecules involved in some of the underlying biochemical reactions. The resulting molecule-count random fluctuations are known as biochemical noise. The dynamic effects of intrinsic noise (that originated within the system) have been widely studied. However, the effects of the noise coming from other sources the system is in contact with, or extrinsic noise, is not so well understood. In this work we introduce an electronic model for a simple gene oscillatory network, with delayed negative-feedback regulation. Notably, this model accounts for the intrinsic biochemical noise due to the slow promoter switching between the active and inactive states; but dismisses biochemical noise due to mRNA and protein production and degradation. We characterize the oscillatory behavior of this gene network by varying all the relevant parameter values within biologically meaningful ranges. Finally, we investigate how different sources of extrinsic noise affect the system dynamic behavior. To simulate extrinsic noise we consider stochastic time series coming from another circuit simulating a gene network. Our results indicate that, depending on the parameter affected by extrinsic noise and the power spectra of the stochastic time series, the system quasi-periodic behavior is affected in different ways.', u'PCR permits the exponential and sequence-specific amplification of DNA, even from minute starting quantities. PCR is a fundamental step in preparing DNA samples for high-throughput sequencing. However, there are errors associated with PCR-mediated amplification. Here we examine the effects of four important sources of error ? bias, stochasticity, template switches and polymerase errors ? on sequence representation in low-input next-generation sequencing libraries. We designed a pool of diverse PCR amplicons with a defined structure, and then used Illumina sequencing to search for signatures of each process. We further developed quantitative models for each process, and compared predictions of these models to our experimental data. We find that PCR stochasticity is the major force skewing sequence representation after amplification of a pool of unique DNA amplicons. Polymerase errors become very common in later cycles of PCR but have little impact on the overall sequence distribution as they are confined to small copy numbers. PCR template switches are rare and confined to low copy numbers. Our results provide a theoretical basis for removing distortions from high-throughput sequencing data. In addition, our findings on PCR stochasticity will have particular relevance to quantification of results from single cell sequencing, in which sequences are represented by only one or a few molecules.', u"Cross-sectional time series single cell data confound several sources of variation, with contributions from measurement noise, stochastic cell to cell variation and cell progression at different rates. Time series from single cell assays are particularly susceptible to confounding as the measurements are not averaged over populations of cells. When several genes are assayed in parallel these effects can be estimated and corrected for under certain smoothness assumptions on cell progression. We present a principled probabilistic model with a Bayesian inference scheme to analyse such data. We demonstrate our method's utility on public microarray, nCounter\nand RNA-seq data sets from three organisms. Our method almost perfectly recovers withheld capture times in an Arabidopsis data set, it accurately estimates cell cycle peak times in a human prostate cancer cell line and it correctly identifies two precocious cells in a study of paracrine signalling in mouse dendritic cells. Furthermore, our method compares favourably with\nMonocle, a state-of-the-art technique. We also show using held out data that uncertainty in the temporal dimension is a common confounder and should be accounted for in analyses of cross-sectional time series.", u"Background:\nMicroarray technologies are established approaches for high throughput gene expression, methylation and genotyping analysis. An accurate mapping of the array probes is essential to generate reliable biological findings. Manufacturers typically provide incomplete and outdated annotation tables, which often rely on older genome and transcriptome versions differing substantially from up-to-date sequence databases.\nResults:\nHere, we present the Re-Annotator, a re-annotation pipeline for microarrays. It\nis primarily designed for gene expression microarrays but can be adapted to other types of microarrays. The Re-Annotator is based on a custom-built mRNA reference, used to identify the positions of gene expression array probe sequences. A comparison of our re-annotation of the Human-HT12-v4 microarray to the manufacturer's annotation led to over 25% differently interpreted probes.\nConclusions:\nA thorough re-annotation of probe information is crucial to any microarray analysis. The Re-Annotator pipeline consists of Perl and Shell scripts, freely available at (http://sourceforge.net/projects/reannotator). Re-annotation files for Illumina microarrays Human HT-12 v3/v4 and MouseRef-8 v2 are available as well.", u'The  "tumor growth paradox" refers to the observation that incomplete treatment of cancers can enhance their growth. As shown here and elsewhere, the existence of cancer stem cells (CSC) can explain this effect.  CSC are less sensitive to treatments, hence any stress applied to the tumor selects for CSC, thereby increasing the fitness of the tumor. \n In this paper we use a mathematical model to understand the role of CSC in the progression of cancer. Our model is a rather general system of integro-differential equations for tumor growth and tumor spread. Such a model has never been analysed, and we prove results on local and global existence of solutions, their uniqueness and their boundedness. We show numerically that this model exhibits the tumor growth paradox for all parameters tested. This effect becomes more relevant for small renewal rate of the CSC.', u'Direct reprogramming technology has emerged as an outstanding technique for the generation of induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells and various specialized cells directly from somatic cells of different species. Recent studies dissecting the molecular mechanisms of reprogramming have methodologically improved the quality, ease and efficiency of reprogramming and eliminated the need for genome modifications with integrating viral vectors. With these advancements, direct reprogramming technology has moved closer to clinical application. Here, we provide a comprehensive overview of the cutting-edge findings regarding distinct barriers of reprogramming to pluripotency, strategies to enhance reprogramming efficiency, and chemical reprogramming as one of the non-integrating approaches in iPS cell generation. In addition to direct transdifferentiation, pluripotency factor-induced transdifferentiation or cell activation and signaling directed (CASD) lineage conversion is described as a robust strategy for the generation of both tissue-specific progenitors and clinically relevant cell types. Then, we consider the possibility that a combined method of inhibition of roadblocks (e.g. p53, p21, p57, Mbd3, etc.), and application of enhancing factors in a chemical reprogramming paradigm would be a safe, reliable and effective approach in pluripotent reprogramming and transdifferentiation. Furthermore, with respect to the state of native, aberrant, and target gene regulatory networks in reprogrammed cell populations, CellNet is reviewed as a computational platform capable of evaluating the fidelity of reprogramming methods and refining current engineering strategies. Ultimately, we conclude that a faithful, highly efficient and integration-free reprogramming paradigm would provide powerful tools for research studies, drug-based induced regeneration, cell transplantation therapies and other regenerative medicine purposes.', u'A central goal of synthetic biology is to engineer cellular behavior by engineering synthetic gene networks for a variety of biotechnology and medical applications. The process of engineering gene networks often involves an iterative \u2018design-build-test\u2019 cycle, whereby the parts and connections that make up the network are built, characterized and varied until the desired network function is reached. Many advances have been made in the design and build portions of this cycle. However, the slow process of in vivo characterization of network function often limits the timescale of the testing step. Cell-free transcription-translation (TX-TL) systems offer a simple and fast alternative to performing these characterizations in cells. Here we provide an overview of a cell-free TX-TL system that utilizes the native Escherichia coli TX-TL machinery, thereby allowing a large repertoire of parts and networks to be characterized. As a way to demonstrate the utility of cell-free TX-TL, we illustrate the characterization of two genetic networks: an RNA transcriptional cascade and a protein regulated incoherent feed-forward loop. We also provide guidelines for designing TX-TL experiments to characterize new genetic networks. We end with a discussion of current and emerging applications of cell free systems.', u'The first layer of plant immunity is activated by cell surface receptor-like kinases (RLKs) and proteins (RLPs) that detect infectious pathogens. Constitutive interaction with the RLK SUPPRESSOR OF BIR1 (SOBIR1) contributes to RLP stability and kinase activity. As RLK activation requires transphosphorylation with a second associated RLK, it remains elusive how RLPs initiate downstream signaling. To address this, we investigated functioning of Cf RLPs that mediate immunity of tomato against Cladosporium fulvum. We employed live-cell imaging and co-immunoprecipitation in tomato and Nicotiana benthamiana to investigate the requirement of associated kinases for Cf activity and ligand-induced subcellular trafficking of Cf-4. Upon elicitation with the matching effector ligands Avr4 and Avr9, BRI1-ASSOCIATED KINASE 1 (BAK1) associates with Cf-4 and Cf-9. Furthermore, Cf-4 that interacts with SOBIR1 at the plasma membrane, is recruited to late endosomes after elicitation. Significantly, BAK1 is required for Avr4-triggered endocytosis, effector-triggered defenses in Cf-4 plants and resistance of tomato against C. fulvum.  Our observations indicate that RLP-mediated immune signaling and endocytosis require ligand-induced recruitment of BAK1, reminiscent of BAK1 interaction and subcellular fate of the FLAGELLIN SENSING 2 RLK. This reveals that diverse classes of cell surface immune receptors share common requirements for signaling initiation and endocytosis.', u"Molecular clocks give ``Time to most recent common ancestor'' TMRCA} of genetic trees.  By Watson-Galton   most lineages  terminate, with  a few overrepresented singular lineages generated by  W. Hamilton's ``kin selection''.  Applying  current  methods to  this non-uniform branching produces   greatly exaggerated  TMRCA.   We introduce an  inhomogenous  stochastic  process    which  detects  singular lineages by asymmetries, whose   reduction gives  true  TMRCA. \nThis  implies a new  method for  computing mutation rates. Despite   low rates  similar to mitosis data,    reduction   implies younger   TMRCA,  with smaller errors.  We establish accuracy  by a comparison  across a wide range of time,\nindeed this  is only clock  giving consistent results for both short and long term times.   In particular \nwe show that the dominant European y-haplotypes R1a1a  & R1b1a2, expand from  c3700BC, not reaching Anatolia before c3300BC.  While   this contradicts  current clocks which date  R1b1a2 to  either the Neolithic  Near East$ or  Paleo-Europe, our dates support recent genetic analysis  of ancient skeletons by Reich.", u'Genome-wide association study (GWAS) has been a great success in the past decade. However, significant challenges still remain in both identifying new risk loci and interpreting results. Bonferroni-corrected significance level is known to be conservative, leading to insufficient statistical power when the effect size is moderate at risk locus. Complex structure of linkage disequilibrium also makes it challenging to separate causal variants from nonfunctional ones in large haplotype blocks.\n\nWe describe GenoWAP, a post-GWAS prioritization method that integrates genomic functional annotation and GWAS test statistics. The effectiveness of GenoWAP is demonstrated through its applications to Crohn\u2019s disease and schizophrenia using the largest studies available, where highly ranked loci show substantially stronger signals in the whole dataset after prioritization based on a subset of samples. At the single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) level, top ranked SNPs after prioritization have both higher replication rates and consistently stronger enrichment of eQTLs. Within each risk locus, GenoWAP is also able to distinguish functional sites from groups of correlated SNPs.\n\nGenoWAP is freely available on the web at http://genocanyon.med.yale.edu/GenoWAP', u'Selective attention causes visual cortical neurons to act as if only one of multiple stimuli are within their receptive fields. This suggests that attention employs a, yet unknown, neuronal gating mechanism for transmitting only the information that is relevant for the current behavioral context. We introduce an experimental paradigm to causally investigate this putative gating and the mechanism underlying selective attention by determining the signal availability of two time-varying stimuli in local field potentials of V4 neurons. We find transmission of the low frequency (<20Hz) components only from the attended visual input signal and that the higher frequencies from both stimuli are attenuated. A minimal model implementing routing by synchrony replicates the attentional gating effect and explains the spectral transfer characteristics of the signals. It supports the proposal that selective gamma-band synchrony subserves signal routing in cortex and further substantiates our experimental finding that attention selectively gates signals already at the level of afferent synaptic input.', u'Cardiovascular disease including coronary artery disease and myocardial infarction is one of the leading causes of death in Europe, and is influenced by both environmental and genetic factors. With the advancements in genomic tools and technologies there is potential to predict and diagnose heart disease using molecular data from analysis of blood cells. We analyzed gene expression data from blood samples taken from normal people (n=21), non-significant coronary artery disease (n=93), patients with unstable angina (n=16), stable coronary artery disease (n=14) and myocardial infarction (MI; n=207). We used a feature selection approach to identify a set of gene expression variables which successfully differentiate different cardiovascular diseases. The initial features were discovered by fitting a linear model for each probe set across all arrays of normal individuals and patients with myocardial infarction. Three different feature optimisation algorithms were devised which identified two most discriminating sets of genes one using MI and normal controls (total genes=8) and another one using MI and unstable angina patients (total genes=17). The results proved the diagnostic robustness of the final feature sets in discriminating not only patients with myocardial infraction from healthy controls but also from patients with clinical symptoms of cardiac ischemia with myocardial necrosis and stable coronary artery disease despite the influence of batch effects and different microarray gene chips and platforms.', u'The single-molecule accuracy of nanopore sequencing has been an area of rapid academic and commercial advancement, but remains insufficient for the de novo analysis of genomes. We introduce here a novel algorithm for the error correction of nanopore data, utilizing statistical models of the physical system in order to obtain high accuracy de novo sequences at a range of coverage depths. We demonstrate the technique by sequencing M13 bacteriophage DNA to 99% accuracy at moderate coverage as well as its use in an assembly pipeline by sequencing \u03bb DNA at a range of coverages. We also show the algorithm\u2019s ability to accurately classify sequence variants at far lower coverage than existing methods.', u'Food webs represent the set of consumer-resource interactions among a set of species that co-occur in a habitat, but most food web studies have omitted parasites and their interactions. Recent studies have provided conflicting evidence on whether including parasites changes food web structure, with some suggesting that parasitic interactions are structurally distinct from those among free-living species while others claim the opposite. Here, we describe a principled method for understanding food web structure that combines an efficient optimization algorithm from statistical physics called parallel tempering with a probabilistic generalization of the empirically well-supported food web niche model. This generative model approach allows us to rigorously estimate the degree to which interactions that involve parasites are statistically distinguishable from interactions among free-living species, whether parasite niches behave similarly to free-living niches, and the degree to which existing hypotheses about food web structure are naturally recovered. We apply this method to the well-studied Flensburg Fjord food web and show that while predation on parasites, concomitant predation of parasites, and parasitic intraguild trophic interactions are largely indistinguishable from free-living predation interactions, parasite-host interactions are different. These results provide a powerful new tool for evaluating the impact of classes of species and interactions on food web structure to shed new light on the roles of parasites in food webs.', u'Under modern interrogation, famously well-studied neural circuits such as that for orientation tuning in V1 are steadily giving up their secrets, but quite basic questions about connectivity and dynamics, including whether most computation is done by lateral processing or by selective feedforward summation, remain unresolved. We show here that grid cells offer a particularly rich opportunity for dissecting the mechanistic underpinnings of a cortical circuit, through a strategy based on global circuit perturbation combined with sparse neural recordings. The strategy is based on the theoretical insight that small perturbations of circuit activity will result in characteristic quantal shifts in the spatial tuning relationships between grid cells, which should be observable from multi-single unit recordings of a small subsample of the population. The predicted shifts differ qualitatively across candidate recurrent network mechanisms, and also distinguish between recurrent versus feedforward mechanisms. More generally, the proposed strategy demonstrates how sparse neu- ral recordings coupled with global perturbation in the grid cell system can reveal much more about circuit mechanism as it relates to function than can full knowledge of network activity or of the synaptic connectivity matrix.', u'The reproducibility of experiments is key to the scientific process, and particularly necessary for accurate reporting of analyses in data-rich fields such as phylogenomics. We present ReproPhylo, a phylogenomic analysis environment developed to ensure experimental reproducibility, to facilitate the handling of large-scale data, and to assist methodological experimentation. Reproducibility, and instantaneous repeatability, is built in to the ReproPhylo system, and does not require user intervention or configuration because it stores the experimental workflow as a single, serialized Python object containing explicit provenance and environment information. This ?single file? approach ensures the persistence of provenance across iterations of the analysis, with changes automatically managed by the version control program Git. ReproPhylo produces an extensive human-readable report, and generates a comprehensive experimental archive file, both of which are suitable for submission with publications. The system facilitates thorough experimental exploration of both parameters and data. ReproPhylo is a platform independent CC0 python module, and is easily installed as a Docker image, with an Jupyter GUI, or as a slimmer version in a Galaxy distribution.', u'Helicobacter pylori is an important human pathogen associated with serious gastric diseases. Owing to its medical importance and close relationship with its human host, understanding genomic patterns of global and local adaptation in H. pylori may be of particular significance for both clinical and evolutionary studies. Here we present the first such whole-genome analysis of 60 globally distributed strains, from which we inferred worldwide population structure and demographic history and shed light on interesting global and local events of positive selection, with particular emphasis on the evolution of San-associated lineages. Our results indicate a more ancient origin for the association of humans and H. pylori than previously thought. We identify several important perspectives for future clinical research on candidate selected regions that include both previously characterized genes (e.g. transcription elongation factor NusA and tumor Necrosis Factor Alpha-Inducing Protein Tip\u03b1) and hitherto unknown functional genes.', u'Distant metastasis (DM) and local-regional recurrence (LR) after radiation and chemo therapy are major cause of treatment failure for patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. However, detailed underlying mechanisms leading to DM and LR in patients are not fully understood yet. MiRNA have been proposed as biomarkers in a variety of biological and medical conditions such as cancer and stress response. The advantages of miRNA as a biomarker lies in its stability in tissues as well as body fluids, hence the potential for non-invasive diagnosis and prognosis. In this study, towards understanding the molecular mechanism causing DM and LR in HN cancer patients we performed miRNA expression profiling using tumor samples from 118 head and neck cancer patients treated by post-operative radiotherapy (PORT) at M.D. Anderson Cancer Center from 1992 to 1999. All patients were considered to be at high-risk for recurrence having histologically proven advanced squamous cell carcinoma. Amongst these samples, 41 found to have distant metastasis (DM), 53 responded without relapse (no evidence of disease (NED)) to PORT. Comparison of miRNA expression between DM and NED specimens using two-way ANOVA identified 28 miRNAs that were differentially expressed with statistical significance (FDR < 0.2 and fold change > 1.5). Amongst these 28 miRNAs seen in the DM and NED outcome groups, miRNAs 551a and 551b are significantly associated with the DM group. Interestingly these two miRNAs share same seed sequence. Moreover Kaplan-Meir survival analysis in our data set and two other data sets suggested that miR-551a and miR-551b expressions are associated with poor survival in patients. We further performed cell proliferation, migration and invasion assays using the HN5 and UMSCC- 17B head and neck cancer cell lines by transfection of either mimic or an inhibitor of miR-551a and miR-551b. The results suggested that miR-551a and miR-551b mimics promote proliferation, migration and invasion whereas the inhibitor decreased. Further studies indicated that these miRNAs target GLIPR2 expression and miR-551a, miR-551b and GLIPR2 axis at least in part plays an important role in tumor progression. Hence we need to further explore miR-551a and miR-551b-3p role in HN cancer progression in detail in in-vivo models to use them as therapeutic targets in future.', u'Genome-scale ?-omics? measurements are challenging to benchmark due to the enormous variety of unique biological molecules involved.  Mixtures of previously-characterized samples can be used to benchmark repeatability and reproducibility using component proportions as truth for the measurement.  We describe and evaluate experiments characterizing the performance of RNA-sequencing (RNA-Seq) measurements, and discuss cases where mixtures can serve as effective process controls.\n\nWe apply a linear model to total RNA mixture samples in RNA-seq experiments.  This model provides a context for performance benchmarking.  The parameters of the model fit to experimental results can be evaluated to assess bias and variability of the measurement of a mixture.  A linear model describes the behavior of mixture expression measures and provides a context for performance benchmarking.  Residuals from fitting the model to experimental data can be used as a metric for evaluating the effect that an individual step in an experimental process has on the linear response function and precision of the underlying measurement while identifying signals affected by interference from other sources.  Effective benchmarking requires well-defined mixtures, which for RNA-Seq requires knowledge of the messenger RNA (mRNA) content of the individual total RNA components. We demonstrate and evaluate an experimental method suitable for use in genome-scale process control and lay out a method utilizing spike-in controls to determine mRNA content of total RNA in samples. \n\nGenome-scale process controls can be derived from mixtures.  These controls relate prior knowledge of individual components to a complex mixture, allowing assessment of measurement performance.  The mRNA fraction accounts for differential enrichment of mRNA from varying total RNA samples.  Spike-in controls can be utilized to measure this relationship between mRNA content and input total RNA.  Our mixture analysis method also enables estimation of the proportions of an unknown mixture, even when component-specific markers are not previously known, whenever pure components are measured alongside the mixture.', u'Some cells have to take decision based on the quality of surroundings ligands, almost irrespective of their quantity, a problem we name "absolute discrimination". An example of absolute discrimination is recognition of not-self by immune T Cells. We show how the problem of absolute discrimination can be solved by a process called "adaptive sorting". We review several implementations of adaptive sorting, as well as its generic properties such as antagonism. We show how kinetic proofreading with negative feedback implements an approximate version of adaptive sorting in the immune context. Finally, we revisit the decision problem at the cell population level, showing how phenotypic variability and feedbacks between population and single cells are crucial for proper decision.', u'Most biological traits are regulated by both genetic and environmental factors. Individual loci contributing to the phenotypic diversity in a population are generally identified by their contributions to the trait mean. Genome-wide association (GWA) analyses can also detect loci based on variance differences between genotypes and several hypotheses have been proposed regarding the possible genetic mechanisms leading to such signals. Little is, however, known about what causes them and whether this genetic variance-heterogeneity reflects mechanisms of importance in natural populations. Previously, we identified a variance-heterogeneity GWA (vGWA) signal for leaf molybdenum concentrations in Arabidopsis thaliana. Here, fine-mapping of this association to a ~78 kb Linkage Disequilibrium (LD)-block reveals that it emerges from the independent effects of three genetic polymorphisms on the high-variance associated version of this LD-block. By revealing the genetic architecture underlying this vGWA signal, we uncovered the molecular source of a significant amount of hidden additive genetic variation (\u201cmissing heritability\u201d). Two of the three polymorphisms on the high-variance LD-block are promoter variants for Molybdate transporter 1 (MOT1), and the third a variant located ~25 kb downstream of this gene. A fourth independent association was also detected ~600 kb upstream of the LD-block. Testing of T-DNA knockout alleles for genes in the associated regions suggest AT2G25660 (unknown function) and AT2G26975 (Copper Transporter 6; COPT6) as the strongest candidates for the associations outside MOT1. Our results show that multi-allelic genetic architectures within a single LD-block can lead to a variance-heterogeneity between genotypes in natural populations. Further they provide novel insights into the genetic regulation of ion homeostasis in A. thaliana, and empirically confirm that variance-heterogeneity based GWA methods are a valuable tool to detect novel associations of biological importance in natural populations.', u'We propose that NADH will exert a specific kill action against some cancers. NADH is a natural metabolite. We envisage a low side effect profile and that NADH therapy will, additionally, combat the wastage and weakness of cancer patients, which can be the cause of death in some cases. Significantly, NADH can be administered orally and has already cleared clinical trials, all be it for other pathologies.', u'Genome scans, including both genome-wide association studies and deep sequencing, continue to discover a growing number of significant association signals for various traits. However, often variants meeting genome-wide significance criteria explain far less of the overall trait variance than \u201csub-threshold\u201d association signals. To extract these sub-threshold signals, there is a need for methods which accurately estimate the mean of all (normally-distributed) test-statistics from a genome scan (i.e., Z-scores). This is currently achieved by the difficult procedures of adjusting all Z-score (\u03c7_1^2) statistics for \u201cwinner\u2019s curse\u201d (multiple testing). Given that multiple testing adjustments are much simpler for p-values, we propose a method for estimating  Z-scores means by i) first adjusting their p-values for multiple testing and then ii) transforming the adjusted p-values to upper tail Z-scores with the sign of the original statistics. Because a False Discovery Rate (FDR) procedure is used for multiple testing adjustment, we denote this method FDR Inverse Quantile Transformation (FIQT). When compared to competitors, e.g. Empirical Bayes (including proposed improvements), FIQT is more i) accurate and ii) computationally efficient by orders of magnitude. Its accuracy advantage is substantial at larger sample sizes and/or moderate numbers of association signals. Practical application of FIQT to Z-scores from the first Psychiatric Genetic Consortium (PGC) schizophrenia predicts a non-trivial fraction of the significant signal regions from the subsequent published PGC schizophrenia studies. Finally, we suggest that FIQT might be i) used to improve subject level risk prediction and ii) further improved by modelling the noncentrality of \u03c7_1^2 statistics.', u'A typical prokaryote population sequencing study can now consist of hundreds or thousands of isolates. Interrogating these datasets can provide detailed insights into the genetic structure of of prokaryotic genomes. We introduce Roary, a tool that rapidly builds large-scale pan genomes, identifying the core and dispensable accessory genes. Roary makes construction of the pan genome of thousands of prokaryote samples possible on a standard desktop without compromising on the accuracy of results. Using a single CPU Roary can produce a pan genome consisting of 1000 isolates in 4.5 hours using 13 GB of RAM, with further speedups possible using multiple processors.', u'The study of microbial evolution is hindered by the fact that microbial populations leave few fossils.  We hypothesized that bacterial cells preserved in ancient ice could be used as a molecular fossil record if their DNA could be extracted and sequenced.  Channels formed along triple junctions of ice crystals contain liquid \u201cveins\u201d in which microbial cells may be preserved intact.  Since vertical motion through the ice matrix is impossible, microbes found in ice cores are representative of microbes present at the time the ice was formed.  We detected chlorophyll fluorescence in intact ice cores taken from Greenland and Antarctica.  Flow cytometric analysis localized at least some of this fluorescence to particles < 1 \u03bcm in diameter. Metagenomic analysis of meltwater indeed revealed sequences similar to modern strains of the picocyanobacterial genera Synechococcus and Prochlorococcus, and some of these sequences were distinct from any sequences known from modern oceans or glacial environments.  Our study is a first proof-of-concept of the use of ice cores as records of microbial evolution, and we suggest that future genetic studies with higher vertical resolution in the cores might shed light on the pace and character of evolution of these ecologically important cells.', u'For tissues to carry out their functions, they rely on the right proteins to be present. Several high-throughput technologies have been used to map out which proteins are expressed in which tissues; however, the data have not previously been systematically compared and integrated. We present a comprehensive evaluation of tissue expression data from a variety of experimental techniques and show that these agree surprisingly well with each other and with results from literature curation and text mining. We further found that most datasets support the assumed but not demonstrated distinction between tissue-specific and ubiquitous expression. By developing comparable confidence scores for all types of evidence, we show that it is possible to improve both quality and coverage by combining the datasets. To facilitate use and visualization of our work, we have developed the TISSUES resource (http://tissues.jensenlab.org), which makes all the scored and integrated data available through a single user-friendly web interface.', u'Abstract\n\nMotivation:\nCircularized Chromosome Conformation Capture (4C) is a powerful technique\nfor studying the spatial interactions of a specific genomic region called the ?view-\npoint? with the rest of the genome, both in a single condition or comparing\ndifferent experimental conditions or cell types. Observed ligation frequencies\nshow a strong, regular dependence on genomic distance from the viewpoint,\non top of which specific interaction peaks are superimposed. Here, we address\nthe computational task to find these specific interactions and to detect changes\nbetween interaction profiles of different conditions.\n\nResults:\nWe model the overall trend of decreasing interaction frequency with genomic\ndistance by fitting a smooth monotonously decreasing function to suitably trans-\nformed count data. Based on the fit, z-scores are calculated from the residuals,\nwith high z scores being interpreted as peaks providing evidence for specific\ninteractions. To compare different conditions, we normalize fragment counts\nbetween samples, and call for differential contact frequencies using the statisti-\ncal method DESeq2 adapted from RNA-Seq analysis.\n\nAvailability and Implementation:\nA full end-to-end analysis pipeline is implemented in the R package FourCSeq\navailable at www.bioconductor.org.', u'The gut microbiome provides access to otherwise unavailable metabolic and immune functions, likely affecting mammalian fitness and evolution. To investigate how this microbial ecosystem impacts evolutionary adaptation of humans to particular habitats, we explore the gut microbiome and metabolome of the BaAka rainforest hunter-gatherers from Central Africa. The data demonstrate that the BaAka harbor a colonic ecosystem dominated by Prevotellaceae and other taxa likely related to an increased capacity to metabolize plant structural polysaccharides, phenolics, and lipids. A comparative analysis shows that the BaAka gut microbiome shares similar patterns with that of the Hadza, another hunter-gatherer population from Tanzania. Nevertheless, the BaAka harbor significantly higher bacterial diversity and pathogen load compared to the Hadza, as well as other Western populations. We show that the traits unique to the BaAka microbiome and metabolome likely reflect adaptations to hunter-gatherer lifestyles and particular subsistence patterns. We hypothesize that the observed increase in microbial diversity and potential pathogenicity in the BaAka microbiome has been facilitated by evolutionary adaptations in immunity genes, resulting in a more tolerant immune system.', u"Sophisticated inferential tools coupled with the coalescent model have recently emerged for estimating past population sizes from genomic data. Accurate methods are available for data from a single locus or from independent loci. Recent methods that model recombination require small sample sizes, make constraining assumptions about population size changes, and do not report measures of uncertainty for estimates. Here, we develop a Gaussian process-based Bayesian nonparametric method coupled with a sequentially Markov coalescent model which allows accurate inference of population sizes over time from a set of genealogies. In contrast to current methods, our approach considers a broad class of recombination events, including those that do not change local genealogies. We show that our method outperforms recent likelihood-based methods that rely on discretization of the parameter space. We illustrate the application of our method to multiple demographic histories, including population bottlenecks and exponential growth. In simulation, our Bayesian approach produces point estimates four times more accurate than maximum likelihood estimation (based on the sum of absolute differences between the truth and the estimated values). Further, our method's credible intervals for population size as a function of time cover 90 percent of true values across multiple demographic scenarios, enabling formal hypothesis testing about population size differences over time. Using genealogies estimated with ARGweaver, we apply our method to European and Yoruban samples from the 1000 Genomes Project and confirm key known aspects of population size history over the past 150,000 years.", u'Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are a group of developmental disabilities that affect social interaction, communication and are characterized by repetitive behaviors. There is now a large body of evidence that suggests a complex role of genetics in ASD, in which many different loci are involved. Although many current population scale genomic studies have been demonstrably fruitful, these studies generally focus on analyzing a limited part of the genome or use a limited set of bioinformatics tools. These limitations preclude the analysis of genome-wide perturbations that may contribute to the development and severity of ASD-related phenotypes. To overcome these limitations, we have developed and utilized an integrative clinical and bioinformatics pipeline for generating a more complete and reliable set of genomic variants for downstream analyses. Our study focuses on the analysis of three simplex autism families consisting of one affected child, unaffected parents, and one unaffected sibling.  All members were clinically evaluated and widely phenotyped. Genotyping arrays and whole genome sequencing were performed on each member, and the resulting sequencing data were analyzed using a variety of available bioinformatics tools. We searched for rare variants of putative functional impact that were found to be segregating according to de-novo, autosomal recessive, x-linked, mitochondrial and compound heterozygote transmission models.  The resulting candidate variants included three small heterozygous CNVs, a rare heterozygous de novo nonsense mutation in MYBBP1A located within exon 1, and a novel de novo missense variant in LAMB3. Our work demonstrates how more comprehensive analyses that include rich clinical data and whole genome sequencing data can generate reliable results for use in downstream investigations.  We are moving to implement our framework for the analysis and study of larger cohorts of families, where statistical rigor can accompany genetic findings.', u'This report includes the discovery and analysis of a pedigree with Prader\u2013Willi Syndrome (PWS), hereditary hemochromatosis (HH), and dysautonomia-like symptoms. Nine members of the family participated in whole genome sequencing (WGS), which enabled a wide scope of variant calling from single-nucleotide polymorphisms to copy number variations. First, a 5.5 Mb de novo deletion is identified in the chromosome region 15q11.2 to 15q13.1 in the boy with PWS. Second, a female invididual with HH is homozygous for the p.C282Y variant in HFE, a mutation known to be associated with HH. Her brother is homozygous for the same variant, although he has yet to be clinically diagnosed with HH. Third, none of the people with dysautonomia-like symptoms carry any reported or novel rare variants in IKBKAP that are implicated in familial dysautonomia (FD - HSAN III). Although two people with dysautonomia-like symptoms carry two heterozygous variants in NTRK1, a gene that has been shown to contribute to HSAN IV (congenital insensitivity to pain with anhidrosis, a disease that closely resembles FD), this variant is not present in the third proband. Fourth, WGS revealed pharmacogenetic variants influencing the metabolism of warfarin and simvastatin, which are being routinely prescribed to the proband. Finally, reports of the phenotypes were standardized with the Human Phenotype Ontology annotation, which may facilitate the search for other families with similar phenotypes. Due to the extreme heterogeneity and insufficient knowledge of human diseases, it is of crucial importance that both phenotypic data and genomic data are standardized and shared.', u'Memory and learning are thought to result from changes in synaptic strength. Previous studies on synaptic physiology in brain slices have traditionally been focused on biochemical processes. Here, we demonstrate with experiments on mouse brain slices that central nervous system plasticity is also sensitive to mechanical stretch. This is important, given the host of clinical conditions involving changes in mechanical tension on the brain, and the normal role that mechanical tension plays in brain development. A novel platform is developed to investigate neural responses to mechanical stretching. Flavoprotein autofluoresence (FA) imaging was employed for measuring neural activity. We observed that synaptic excitability substantially increases after a small (2.5%) stretch was held for 10 minutes and released. The increase is accumulative, i.e. multiple stretch cycles further increase the excitability. We also developed analytical tools to quantify the spatial spread and response strength. Results show that the spatial spread is less stable in slices undergoing the stretch-unstretch cycle. FA amplitude and activation rate decrease as excitability increases in stretch cases but not in electrically enhanced cases. These results collectively demonstrate that a small stretch in physiological range can modulate neural activities significantly, suggesting that mechanical events can be employed as a novel tool for the modulation of neural plasticity.', u'Imaging cellular activities in an entire intact whole organ with light is a grand challenge in optical microscopy. To date, most passive clearing techniques were shown to transform brain, neuronal and embryo tissue into near transparent state for deep tissue imaging. Here, we expand these passive clearing protocol from neuronal tissue (brain and spinal cord) to other visceral organs such as liver and colon and further evaluate their ?depth-clearing performance? based on image contrast of endogenous fluorescence structures. We found that the SeeDB achieve highest depth in brain, 3DISCO is adept at clearing liver and spinal cord and ScaleViewA2 in colon. Overall, 3DISCO clears more rapidly than other agents at a higher cost, while ScaleViewA2 is the most economical but clears at a slower rate. This study, for the first time, provide a direct evaluation of imaging depth, cost and time amongst passive tissue clearing protocols for different intact organs.', u'The human and chimpanzee X chromosomes are less divergent than expected based on autosomal divergence. This has led to a controversial hypothesis proposing a unique role of the X chromosome in human-chimpanzee speciation. We study incomplete lineage sorting patterns between humans, chimpanzees and gorillas to show that this low divergence is entirely due to megabase-sized regions comprising one-third of the X chromosome, where polymorphism in the human-chimpanzee ancestral species was severely reduced. Background selection can explain 10% of this reduction at most. Instead, we show that several strong selective sweeps in the ancestral species can explain this reduction of diversity in the ancestor. We also report evidence of population specific sweeps in extant humans that overlap the regions of low diversity in the ancestral species. These regions further correspond to chromosomal sections shown to be devoid of Neanderthal introgression into modern humans. This suggests that the same X-linked regions that undergo selective sweeps are among the first to form reproductive barriers between diverging species. We hypothesize that meiotic drive is the underlying mechanism causing these two observations.', u"Many diploid organisms undergo facultative sexual reproduction. However, little is currently known concerning the distribution of neutral genetic variation amongst facultative sexuals except in very simple cases. Understanding this distribution is important when making inferences about rates of sexual reproduction, effective population size and demographic history. Here, we extend coalescent theory in diploids with facultative sex to consider gene conversion, selfing, population subdivision, and temporal and spatial heterogeneity in rates of sex. In addition to analytical results for two-sample coalescent times, we outline a coalescent algorithm that accommodates the complexities arising from partial sex; this algorithm can be used to generate multi-sample coalescent distributions. A key result is that when sex is rare, gene conversion becomes a significant force in reducing diversity within individuals, which can remove genomic signatures of infrequent sex (the 'Meselson Effect') or entirely reverse the predictions. Our models offer improved methods for assessing the null model (I.e. neutrality) of patterns of molecular variation in facultative sexuals.", u"Animal migrations provide important ecological functions and can allow for increased biodiversity through habitat and niche diversification. However, aquatic migrations in general, and those of the world's largest fish in particular, are imperiled worldwide and are often poorly understood. Several species of large Amazonian catfish carry out some of the longest freshwater fish migrations in the world, travelling from the Amazon River estuary to the Andes foothills. These species are important apex predators in the main stem rivers of the Amazon Basin and make up the regions largest fishery. They are also the only species to utilize the entire Amazon Basin to complete their life cycle. Studies indicate both that the fisheries may be declining due to overfishing, and that the proposed and completed dams in their upstream range threaten spawning migrations. Despite this, surprisingly little is known about the details of these species' migrations, or their life history. Otolith microchemistry has been an effective method for quantifying and reconstructing fish migrations worldwide across multiple spatial scales and may provide a powerful tool to understand the movements of Amazonian migratory catfish. Our objective was to describe the migratory behaviors of the three most populous and commercially important migratory catfish species, Dourada (Brachyplatystoma rousseauxii), Piramutaba (Brachyplatystoma vaillantii), and Pira?ba (Brachyplatystoma filamentosum). We collected fish from the mouth of the Amazon River and the Central Amazon and used strontium isotope signatures (87Sr/86Sr) recorded in their otoliths to determine the location of early rearing and subsequent. Fish location was determined through discriminant function classification, using water chemistry data from the literature as a training set. Where water chemistry data was unavailable, we successfully in predicted 87Sr/86Sr isotope values using a regression-based approach that related the geology of the upstream watershed to the Sr isotope ratio. Our results provide the first reported otolith microchemical reconstruction of Brachyplatystoma migratory movements in the Amazon Basin. Our results indicate that juveniles exhibit diverse rearing strategies, rearing in both upstream and estuary environments. This contrasts with the prevailing understanding that juveniles rear in the estuary before migrating upstream; however it is supported by some fisheries data that has indicated the presence of alternate spawning and rearing life-histories. The presence of alternate juvenile rearing strategies may have important implications for conservation and management of the fisheries in the region.", u'Spontaneous mutations are ultimately essential for evolutionary change and are also the root cause of many diseases. However, until recently, both biological and technical barriers have prevented detailed analyses of mutation profiles, constraining our understanding of the mutation process to a few model organisms and leaving major gaps in our understanding of the role of genome content and structure on mutation. Here, we present a genome-wide view of the molecular mutation spectrum in Burkholderia cenocepacia, a clinically relevant pathogen with high %GC-content and multiple chromosomes. We find that B. cenocepacia has low genome-wide mutation rates with insertion-deletion mutations biased towards deletions, consistent with the idea that deletion pressure reduces prokaryotic genome sizes. Unlike prior studies of other organisms, mutations in B. cenocepacia are not AT-biased, which suggests that at least some genomes with high %GC-content experience unusual base-substitution mutation pressure. Importantly, we also observe variation in both the rates and spectra of mutations among chromosomes and elevated G:C>T:A transversions in late-replicating regions. Thus, although some patterns of mutation appear to be highly conserved across cellular life, others vary between species and even between chromosomes of the same species, potentially influencing the evolution of nucleotide composition and genome architecture.', u'In the early visual cortex, information is processed within functional maps whose layouts are\nthought to underlie visual perception. However, the precise organization of these functional\nmaps as well as their interrelationships remains largely unknown. Here, we show that spatial\nfrequency representation in cat early visual cortex exhibits singularities around which the\nmap organizes like an electric dipole potential. These singularities are precisely co-located\nwith singularities of the orientation map: the pinwheel centers. To show this, we used high\nresolution intrinsic optical imaging in cat areas 17 and 18. First, we show that a majority of\npinwheel centers exhibit in their neighborhood both semi-global maximum and minimum in\nthe spatial frequency map, contradicting pioneering studies suggesting that pinwheel centers\nare placed at the locus of a single spatial frequency extremum. Based on an analogy with\nelectromagnetism, we proposed a mathematical model for a dipolar structure, accurately\nfitting optical imaging data. We conclude that a majority of orientation pinwheel centers\nform spatial frequency dipoles in cat early visual cortex. Given the functional specificities of\nneurons at singularities in the visual cortex, it is argued that the dipolar organization of\nspatial frequency around pinwheel centers could be fundamental for visual processing.', u"The uses of the Genome Reference Consortium's human reference sequence can be roughly categorized into three related but distinct categories: as a representative species genome, as a coordinate system for identifying variants, and as an alignment reference for variation detection algorithms. However, the use of this reference sequence as simultaneously a representative species genome and as an alignment reference leads to unnecessary artifacts for structural variation detection algorithms and limits their accuracy. We show how decoupling these two references and developing a separate alignment reference can significantly improve the accuracy of structural variation detection, lead to improved genotyping of disease related genes, and decrease the cost of studying polymorphism in a population.", u"The evolution of sex in eukaryotes represents a paradox, given the \u201ctwo-fold\u201d fitness cost it incurs. We hypothesize that the mutational dynamics of the mitochondrial genome would have favoured the evolution of sexual reproduction. Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) exhibits a high mutation rate across most eukaryote taxa, and several lines of evidence suggest this high rate is an ancestral character. This seems inexplicable given mtDNA-encoded genes underlie the expression of life's most salient functions, including energy conversion. We propose that negative metabolic effects linked to mitochondrial mutation accumulation would have invoked selection for sexual recombination between divergent host nuclear genomes in early eukaryote lineages. This would provide a mechanism by which recombinant host genotypes could be rapidly shuffled and screened for the presence of compensatory modifiers that offset mtDNA-induced harm. Under this hypothesis, recombination provides the genetic variation necessary for compensatory nuclear coadaptation to keep pace with mitochondrial mutation accumulation.", u'Confocal microscopy has been experimentally proven for decades to provide high-quality images for biological research. Its unique property of blocking out-of-focus light enables 3D rendering from planar stacks and visualization of internal features. However, visualizing 3D data on a flat display is not intuitive, and would lead to occasional distortion. In this study, a novel, easy-to-implement, and computationally fast solution is provided to reconstruct a confocal stack to true 3D data and subsequently map the information correctly with size and shape consistency to a 2D space for visualization and image analysis purposes.', u'The Tara Oceans expedition (2009-2013) sampled contrasting ecosystems of the world oceans, collecting environmental data and plankton, from viruses to metazoans, for later analysis using modern sequencing and state-of-the-art imaging technologies. It surveyed 210 ecosystems in 20 biogeographic provinces, collecting over 35000 samples of seawater and plankton. The interpretation of such an extensive collection of samples in their ecological context requires means to explore, assess and access raw and validated data sets. To address this challenge, the Tara Oceans Consortium offers open science resources, including the use of open access archives for nucleotides (ENA) and for environmental, biogeochemical, taxonomic and morphological data (PANGAEA), and the development of on line discovery tools and collaborative annotation tools for sequences and images. Here, we present an overview of Tara Oceans Data, and we provide detailed registries (data sets) of all campaigns (from port-to-port), stations and sampling events.', u'To understand the regulation of tissue-specific gene expression, the GTEx Consortium generated RNA-seq expression data for more than thirty distinct human tissues. This data provides an opportunity for deriving shared and tissue-specific gene regulatory networks on the basis of co-expression between genes. However, a small number of samples are available for a majority of the tissues, and therefore statistical inference of networks in this setting is highly underpowered. To address this problem, we infer tissue-specific gene co-expression networks for 35 tissues in the GTEx dataset using a novel algorithm, GNAT, that uses a hierarchy of tissues to share data between related tissues. We show that this transfer learning approach increases the accuracy with which networks are learned. Analysis of these networks reveals that tissue-specific transcription factors are hubs that preferentially connect to genes with tissue-specific functions.  Additionally, we observe that genes with tissue-specific functions lie at the peripheries of our networks. We identify numerous modules enriched for Gene Ontology functions, and show that modules conserved across tissues are especially likely to have functions common to all tissues, while modules that are upregulated in a particular tissue are often instrumental to tissue-specific function. Finally, we provide a web tool, available at mostafavilab.stat.ubc.ca/GNAT, which allows exploration of gene function and regulation in a tissue-specific manner.', u"Due to their relatively low-cost per sample and broad, gene-centric coverage of CpGs across the human genome, Illumina's 450k arrays are widely used in large scale differential methylation studies. However, by their very nature, large studies are particularly susceptible to the effects of unwanted variation. The effects of unwanted variation have been extensively documented in gene expression array studies and numerous methods have been developed to mitigate these effects. However, there has been much less research focused on the appropriate methodology to use for accounting for unwanted variation in methylation array studies. Here we present a novel 2-stage approach using RUV-inverse in a differential methylation analysis of 450k data and show that it outperforms existing methods.", u'Keeping a pace with Quorum sensing, analyzing communication shows the close co-evolution of fungi with organisms present in their environment giving insights into multispecies communication. Subsequently, many examples of cell density dependent regulation by extracellular factors have been found in diverse microorganisms. The widespread incidence of diverse quorum-sensing systems strongly suggests that regulation in accordance with cell density is important for the success of microbes in many environments. The paper includes the basic autoregulatory quorum sensing molecules that has been perceived. Although fungal quorum sensing research is still in its infancy, its discovery has changed our views about the fungal kingdom and could eventually lead to the development of new antifungal therapeutics.', u'Grey mullets (Mugilidae, Ovalentariae) are coastal fishes found in near-shore environments of tropical, subtropical, and temperate regions within marine, brackish, and freshwater habitats throughout the world.  This group is noteworthy both for the highly conserved morphology of its members---which complicates species identification and delimitation---and also for the uncommon herbivorous or detritivorous diet of most mullets.  In this study, we first attempt to identify the number of mullet species, and then---for the resulting species---estimate a densely sampled time-calibrated phylogeny using three mitochondrial gene regions and three fossil calibrations.  Our results identify two major subgroups of mullets that diverged in the Paleocene/Early Eocene, followed by an Eocene/Oligocene radiation across both tropical and subtropical habitats.  We use this phylogeny to explore the evolution of feeding preference in mullets, which indicates multiple independent origins of both herbivorous and detritivorous diets within this group.  We also explore correlations between feeding preference and other variables, including body size, habitat (marine, brackish, or freshwater), and geographic distribution (tropical, subtropical, or temperate).  Our analyses reveal: (1) a positive correlation between trophic index and habitat (with herbivorous and/or detritivorous species predominantly occurring in marine habitats); (2) a negative correlation between trophic index and geographic distribution (with herbivorous species occurring predominantly in subtropical and temperate regions), and; (3) a negative correlation between body size and geographic distribution (with larger species occurring predominantly in subtropical and temperate regions).', u'Fleas (order Siphonaptera) are highly-specialized, diverse blood-feeding ectoparasites of mammals and birds with an enigmatic evolutionary history and obscure origin. We here present a molecular phylogenetic study based on a comprehensive taxon sampling of 259 flea taxa, representing 16 of the 18 extant families of this order. A Bayesian phylogenetic tree with strong nodal support was recovered, consisting of seven sequentially derived lineages with Macropsyllidae as the earliest divergence, followed by Stephanocircidae. Divergence times of flea lineages were estimated based on fossil records and host specific associations to bats (Chiroptera), suggesting that the common ancestor of extant Siphonaptera diversified during the Cretaceous. However, most of the intraordinal divergence into extant lineages took place after the K-Pg boundary. Ancestral states of host association and biogeographical distribution were reconstructed, suggesting with high likelihood that fleas originated in the southern continents (Gondwana) and migrated from South America to their extant distributions in a relatively short time frame. Theria (placental mammals and marsupials) represent the most likely ancestral host group of extant Siphonaptera, with marsupials occupying a more important role than previously assumed. Major extant flea families evolved in connection to post K-Pg diversification of Placentalia. The association of fleas with monotremes and birds is likely due to later secondary host association. These results suggest caution in casually interpreting recently discovered Mesozoic fossil ?dinosaur fleas? of Northeast Asia as part of what we currently consider Siphonaptera.', u'We devise a novel inference algorithm to effectively solve the cancer progression model reconstruction problem. Our empirical analysis of the accuracy and convergence rate of our algorithm, CAncer PRogression Inference (CAPRI), shows that it outperforms the state-of-the-art algorithms addressing similar problems.\n\nMotivation: Several cancer-related genomic data have become available (e.g., The Cancer Genome Atlas, TCGA) typically involving hundreds of patients. At present, most of these data are aggregated in a cross-sectional fashion providing all measurements at the time of diagnosis.\nOur goal is to infer cancer ?progression? models from such data. These models are represented as directed acyclic graphs (DAGs) of collections of ?selectivity? relations, where a mutation in a gene A ?selects? for a later mutation in a gene B. Gaining insight into the structure of such progressions has the potential to improve both the stratification of patients and personalized therapy choices.\n\nResults: The CAPRI algorithm relies on a scoring method based on a probabilistic theory developed by Suppes, coupled with bootstrap and maximum likelihood inference. The resulting algorithm is efficient, achieves high accuracy, and has good complexity, also, in terms of convergence properties. CAPRI performs especially well in the presence of noise in the data, and with limited sample sizes. Moreover CAPRI, in contrast to other approaches, robustly reconstructs different types of confluent trajectories despite irregularities in the data.\nWe also report on an ongoing investigation using CAPRI to study atypical Chronic Myeloid Leukemia, in which we uncovered non trivial selectivity relations and exclusivity patterns among key genomic events.', u"Abstract: Catheter associated urinary tract infection's (CAUTI) account for more than 80% of all healthcare associated infections (HAIs) as compared to non-catheterized urinary tract infections. Catheter associated urinary tract infections occur on the third day after insertion of catheter in patients having urinary tract infection (UTI). In long term catheter use, bio-film form along the catheter which increases the risk of antibiotic resistant pathogens. Most common pathogens involved were Escherichia coli and Klebsiella pneumoniae which produce the enzymes Extended Spectrum \u03b2-Lactamases (ESBLs). Objective: To compare the frequency of ESBLs in catheterized and non-catheterized UTI infections. Materials and Methods: This comparative study was conducted at the Microbiology Department, Allama Iqbal Medical College, Lahore, from June 2014 to January 2015. Urine samples were cultured according to WHO protocol and antimicrobial Susceptibility testing was performed by Modified Kirby-Bauer disc diffusion Method. Escherichia coli and Klebsiella pneumoniae were tested for ESBL production by phenotypic confirmatory method of disk diffusion synergy using a disc of amoxicillin-clavulonate (30\u03bcg) and ceftrixone (30\u03bcg), cefotaxime (30\u03bcg) and aztreonam (30\u03bcg) discs. Results: Out of 300 positive urinary isolates of Escherichia coli and Klebsiella pneumoniae from CAUTI, 65.33% were ESBL producing isolates whereas out of 300 positive urinary isolates of Escherichia coli and Klebsiella pneumoniae from non-catheterized UTI, 47.66% were ESBL producing isolates. The results were highly significant (p < 0.001).  Conclusion: Results showed that frequency of ESBLs were higher in catheterized patients as compared to non-catheterized patients. This is suggestive of a need for regular screening and surveillance for ESBL producing organisms. Patients infected with these organisms should be nursed with contact precautions to avoid the spread of nosocomial infection.", u'By benefitting others at a cost to themselves, cooperators face an ever present threat from defectors---individuals that avail themselves of the cooperative benefit without contributing. A longstanding challenge to evolutionary biology is to understand the mechanisms that support the many instances of cooperation that nevertheless exist. Hammarlund et al. recently demonstrated that cooperation can persist by hitchhiking along with beneficial non-social adaptations. Importantly, cooperators play an active role in this process. In spatially-structured environments, clustered cooperator populations reach greater densities, which creates more mutational opportunities to gain beneficial non-social adaptations. Cooperation rises in abundance by association with these adaptations. However, once adaptive opportunities have been exhausted, the ride abruptly ends as cooperators are displaced by adapted defectors. Using an agent-based model, we demonstrate that the selective feedback that is created as populations construct their local niches can maintain cooperation indefinitely. This cooperator success depends specifically on negative niche construction, which acts as a perpetual source of adaptive opportunities. As populations adapt, they alter their environment in ways that reveal additional opportunities for adaptation. Despite being independent of niche construction in our model, cooperation feeds this cycle. By reaching larger densities, populations of cooperators are better able to adapt to changes in their constructed niche and successfully respond to the constant threat posed by defectors. We relate these findings to previous studies from the niche construction literature and discuss how this model could be extended to provide a greater understanding of how cooperation evolves in the complex environments in which it is found.', u"We analyse patterns of genetic variability of populations in the\npresence of a large seedbank with the help of a new coalescent\nstructure called the seedbank coalescent. This ancestral process\nappears naturally as scaling limit of the genealogy of large\npopulations that sustain seedbanks, if the seedbank size and\nindividual dormancy times are of the same order as the active\npopulation. Mutations appear as Poisson processes on the active\nlineages, and potentially at reduced rate also on the dormant\nlineages. The presence of `dormant' lineages leads to qualitatively\naltered times to the most recent common ancestor and non-classical\npatterns of genetic diversity.  To illustrate this we provide a\nWright-Fisher model with seedbank component and mutation, motivated\nfrom recent models of microbial dormancy, whose genealogy can be\ndescribed by the seedbank coalescent.  Based on our coalescent model,\nwe derive recursions for the expectation and variance of the time to\nmost recent common ancestor, number of segregating sites, pairwise\ndifferences, and singletons.  Estimates (obtained by simulations) of\nthe distributions of commonly employed distance statistics, in the\npresence and absence of a seedbank, are compared.  The effect of a\nseedbank on the expected site-frequency spectrum is also investigated\nusing simulations. Our results indicate that the presence of a large\nseedbank considerably alters the distribution of some distance\nstatistics, as well as the site-frequency spectrum. Thus, one should\nbe able to detect from genetic data the presence of a large seedbank in natural  populations.", u'Cell adaptability to environmental changes is conferred by complex transcriptional regulatory networks, which respond to external stimuli by modulating the expression dynamics of each gene. Hence, deciphering the network of transcriptional regulation is remarkably important, but proves to be extremely challenging, mainly due to the unfavorable ratio between the number of available observations and the number of parameters to estimate. Most of the existing computational methods for the inference of transcriptional networks consider steady-state gene expression datasets, and produce models of transcriptional regulation best explaining the observed static gene expression.\nGene expression time-courses are an emergent typology of gene expression data, paving the way to the characterization of the time-dependent dynamics of transcriptional regulation.\nIn this work we introduce the Complexity Invariant Dynamic Time Warping motif EnRichment (CIDER) analysis, a novel computational pipeline to identify the prominent waves of coordinated gene transcription induced in cells by external stimuli, and determine which TFs are involved in the coordination of gene transcription. The CIDER pipeline combines unsupervised time series clustering and motif enrichment analysis to first detect transcriptional expression patterns, and then identify the TFs over-represented in the promoter regions of gene sets with similar expression dynamics.\nThe ability of CIDER to correctly identify regulatory interactions is assessed on a realistic synthetic dataset of gene expression time-courses, generated by simulating the effects of knock-out perturbations on the E. coli regulatory network.\nThe CIDER source code and the validation datasets are available on request from the corresponding author.', u'We assembled teams of genomics professionals to assess whether we could rapidly develop pipelines to answer biological questions commonly asked by biologists and others new to bioinformatics by facilitating analysis of high-throughput sequencing data. In January 2015, teams were assembled on the National Institutes of Health (NIH) campus to address questions in the DNA-seq, epigenomics, metagenomics and RNA-seq subfields of genomics. The only two rules for this hackathon were that either the data used were housed at the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) or would be submitted there by a participant in the next six months, and that all software going into the pipeline was open-source or open-use. Questions proposed by organizers, as well as suggested tools and approaches, were distributed to participants a few days before the event and were refined during the event. Pipelines were published on GitHub, a web service providing publicly available, free-usage tiers for collaborative software development (https://github.com/features/). The code was published at https://github.com/DCGenomics/ with separate repositories for each team, starting with hackathon_v001.', u'Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) possesses a large and highly repetitive genome of 5.1 Gb that has hindered the development of a complete sequence. In 2012, the International Barley Sequencing Consortium released a resource integrating whole-genome shotgun sequences with a physical and genetic framework. However, since only 6,278 BACs in the physical map were sequenced, detailed fine structure was limited. To gain access to the gene-containing portion of the barley genome at high resolution, we identified and sequenced 15,622 BACs representing the minimal tiling path of 72,052 physical mapped gene-bearing BACs. This generated about 1.7 Gb of genomic sequence containing 17,386 annotated barley genes. Exploration of the sequenced BACs revealed that although distal ends of chromosomes contain most of the gene-enriched BACs and are characterized by high rates of recombination, there are also gene-dense regions with suppressed recombination. Knowledge of these deviant regions is relevant to trait introgression, genome-wide association studies, genomic selection model development and map-based cloning strategies. Sequences and their gene and SNP annotations can be accessed and exported via http://harvest-web.org/hweb/utilmenu.wc or through the software HarvEST:Barley (download from harvest.ucr.edu). In the latter, we have implemented a synteny viewer between barley and Aegilops tauschii to aid in comparative genome analysis.', u'The use of recombinant genetic technologies for population manipulation has mostly remained an abstract idea due to the lack of a suitable means to drive novel gene constructs to high frequency in populations. Recently Gantz and Bier showed that the use of CRISPR/Cas9 technology could provide an artificial drive mechanism, the so-called Mutagenic Chain Reaction (MCR), which could lead to rapid fixation of even a deleterious introduced allele. We establish the equivalence of this system to models of meiotic drive and review the results of simple models showing that, when there is a fitness cost to the MCR allele, an internal equilibrium exists that is usually unstable. Introductions must be at a frequency above this critical point for the successful invasion of the MCR allele. These modeling results have important implications for application of MCR in natural populations.', u'Genome-wide expression profiling is a cost-efficient and widely used method to characterize heterogeneous populations of cells, tissues, biopsies, or other biological specimen. The exploratory analysis of such datasets typically relies on generic unsupervised methods, e.g. principal component analysis or hierarchical clustering. However, generic methods fail to exploit the significant amount of knowledge that exists about the molecular functions of genes. Here, I introduce GO-PCA, an unsupervised method that incorporates prior knowledge about gene functions in the form of gene ontology (GO) annotations. GO-PCA aims to discover and represent biological heterogeneity along all major axes of variation in a given dataset, while suppressing heterogeneity due to technical biases. To this end, GO-PCA combines principal component analysis (PCA) with nonparametric GO enrichment analysis, and uses the results to generate expression signatures based on small sets of functionally related genes. I first applied GO-PCA to expression data from diverse lineages of the human hematopoietic system, and obtained a small set of signatures that captured known cell characteristics for most lineages. I then applied the method to expression profiles of glioblastoma (GBM) tumor biopsies, and obtained signatures that were strongly associated with multiple previously described GBM subtypes. Surprisingly, GO-PCA discovered a cell cycle-related signature that exhibited significant differences between the Proneural and the prognostically favorable GBM CpG Island Methylator (G-CIMP) subtypes, suggesting that the G-CIMP subtype is characterized in part by lower mitotic activity. Previous expression-based classifications have failed to separate these subtypes, demonstrating that GO-PCA can detect heterogeneity that is missed by other methods. My results show that GO-PCA is a powerful and versatile expression-based method that facilitates exploration of large-scale expression data, without requiring additional types of experimental data. The low-dimensional representation generated by GO-PCA lends itself to interpretation, hypothesis generation, and further analysis.', u"We relate vascular network structure to hemodynamics after vessel obstructions. We consider tree-like networks with a viscoelastic fluid with the rheological characteristics of blood. We analyze the network hemodynamic response, which is a function of the frequencies involved in the driving, and a measurement of the resistance to flow. This response function allows the study of the hemodynamics of the system, without the knowledge of a particular pressure gradient. We find analytical expressions for the network response, that explicitly show the roles played by the network structure, the degree of obstruction, and the geometrical place in which obstructions occur. Notably, we find that the sequence of resistances of the network without occlusions, strongly determines the tendencies that the response function has with the anatomical place where obstructions are located. We identify anatomical sites in a network that are critical for its overall capacity to supply blood to a tissue after obstructions. We demonstrate that relatively small obstructions in such critical sites are able to cause a much larger decrease on flow than larger obstructions placed in non-critical sites. Our results indicate that, to a large extent, the response of the network is determined locally. That is, it depends on the structure that the vasculature has around the place where occlusions are found. This result is manifest in a network that follows Murray's law, which is in reasonable agreement with several mammalian vasculatures. For this one, occlusions in early generation vessels have a radically different effect than occlusions in late generation vessels occluding the same percentage of area available to flow. This locality implies that whenever there is a tissue irrigated by a tree-like in-vivo vasculature, our model is able to interpret how important obstructions are for the irrigation of such tissue.", u'Background: The NCBI BLAST suite has become ubiquitous in modern molecular biology, used for small tasks like checking capillary sequencing results of single PCR products through to genome annotation or even larger scale pan-genome analyses. For early adopters of the Galaxy web-based biomedical data analysis platform, integrating BLAST was a natural step for sequence comparison workflows.\n\nFindings: The command line NCBI BLAST+ tool suite was wrapped for use within Galaxy, defining appropriate datatypes as needed, with the goal of making common BLAST tasks easy, and advanced tasks possible.\n\nConclusions: This effort has been come an informal international collaborative effort, and is deployed and used on Galaxy servers worldwide. Several example use-cases are described herein.', u'Proteins must move between different conformations of their native ensemble to perform their functions. Crystal structures obtained from high-resolution X-ray diffraction data reflect this heterogeneity as a spatial and temporal conformational average. Although movement between natively populated alternative conformations can be critical for characterizing molecular mechanisms, it is challenging to identify these conformations within electron density maps. Alternative side chain conformations are generally well separated into distinct rotameric conformations, but alternative backbone conformations can overlap at several atomic positions. Our model building program qFit uses mixed integer quadratic programming (MIQP) to evaluate an extremely large number of combinations of sidechain conformers and backbone fragments to locally explain the electron density. Here, we describe two major modeling enhancements to qFit: peptide flips and alternative glycine conformations.  We find that peptide flips fall into four stereotypical clusters and are enriched in glycine residues at the n+1 position. The potential for insights uncovered by new peptide flips and glycine conformations is exemplified by HIV protease, where different inhibitors are associated with peptide flips in the \u201cflap\u201d regions adjacent to the inhibitor binding site. Our results paint a picture of peptide flips as conformational switches, often enabled by glycine flexibility, that result in dramatic local rearrangements. Our results furthermore demonstrate the power of large-scale computational analysis to provide new insights into conformational heterogeneity.  Overall, improved modeling of backbone heterogeneity with high-resolution X-ray data will connect dynamics to the structure-function relationship and help drive new design strategies for inhibitors of biomedically important systems.', u'In this work, we characterized the metagenome of a Malaysian mangrove soil sample via next generation sequencing (NGS). Shotgun NGS data analysis revealed high diversity of microbes from Bacteria and Archaea domains. The metabolic potential of the metagenome was reconstructed using the NGS data and the SEED classification in MEGAN shows abundance of virulence factor genes, implying that mangrove soil is potential reservoirs of pathogens.', u'Limiting dilution assays are commonly used to measure the extent of infection, and in the context of HIV they represent an essential tool for studying latency and potential curative strategies. To assist investigators using dilution assays, we illustrate the major statistical method for estimating the frequency of infected cells (or other infectious units) from assay results, and we offer an online tool for computing this estimate. We then recommend a procedure for optimizing assay design to achieve any desired set of sensitivity and precision goals, subject to experimental constraints. We discuss challenges involved in interpreting experiments in which no viral growth is observed and explain how using alternative measures for viral outgrowth may make measurement of HIV latency more efficient. Finally, we discuss how biological complications -- such as probabilistic growth of a small infection in culture -- alter interpretations of experimental results.', u'We have identified a strain of C. neteri SSMD04 isolated from pickled mackerel sashimi that produced N-acyl-homoserine lactone (AHL) type quorum sensing (QS) activity. Tandem mass sspectrometry revealed that C. neteri SSMD04 produced N-butyryl-homoserine lactone (C4-HSL). We identified a pair of luxIR homologues in this genome that shares the highest similarity with croIR from Citrobacter rodentium. The AHL synthase, which we named it as cneI (636 bp) and at 8bp distance from cneI is a sequence encoding a hypothetical protein, potentially the cognate receptor, a luxR homologue which we named it as cneR. We also found an orphan luxR in this isolate. To our knowledge, this is the first report on the AHL production activity in C. neteri, discovery of its luxI/R homologues and the orphan receptor.', u'Forest dynamics are highly dimensional phenomena that are poorly understood theoretically. Modeling these dynamics is data-intensive and requires repeated measurements taken with a consistent methodology. Forest inventory datasets offer unprecedented opportunities to model these dynamics, but they are analytically challenging due to high dimensionality and sampling irregularities across years. We develop a methodology for predicting forest stand dynamics using such datasets. Our methodology involves the following steps: 1) computing stand level characteristics from individual tree measurements, 2) reducing the characteristic dimensionality through analyses of their correlations, 3) parameterizing transition matrices for each uncorrelated dimension using Gibbs sampling, and 4) deriving predictions of forest developments at different timescales. Applying our methodology to a forest inventory database from Quebec, Canada, we discovered that four uncorrelated dimensions were required to describe the stand structure: the biomass, biodiversity, shade tolerance index and stand age. We were able to successfully estimate transition matrices for each of these dimensions. The model predicted substantial short-term increases in biomass and longer-term increases in the average age of trees, biodiversity, and shade intolerant species. Using highly dimensional and irregularly sampled forest inventory data, our original data-intensive methodology provides both descriptions of the short-term dynamics as well as predictions\nof forest development on a longer timescale. This method can be applied in other contexts such as conservation and silviculture, and can be delivered as an efficient tool for sustainable forest management.', u"There is a striking visual symmetry between the 'paradoxical combinator' (which implements recursion in the mathematical theory of computation) and the biological replication fork (which implements reproduction in the living cell). Can this mean anything?  Living organisms are information processors \u2013 the genome encodes instructions for the process of life much as computer programs encode instructions for a computer. Replication in biological systems is intuitively similar to recursion in computational systems. The following discussion will present enough of the mathematics to allow biologists to make sense of the symmetries in the logo. Mathematicians will learn nothing new about biology, but may be encouraged to look at biological processes from a new perspective.", u'The abundance of phenotypic diversity among species can enrich our knowledge of development and genetics beyond the limits of variation that can be observed in model organisms. The Phenoscape Knowledgebase (KB) is designed to enable exploration and discovery of phenotypic variation among species. Because phenotypes in the KB are annotated using standard ontologies, evolutionary phenotypes can be compared with phenotypes from genetic perturbations in model organisms. To illustrate the power of this approach, we review the use of the KB to find taxa showing evolutionary variation similar to that of a query gene. Matches are made between the full set of phenotypes described for a gene and an evolutionary profile, the latter of which is defined as the set of phenotypes that are variable among the daughters of any node on the taxonomic tree. Phenoscape\u2019s semantic similarity interface allows the user to assess the statistical significance of each match and flags matches that may only result from differences in annotation coverage between genetic and evolutionary studies. Tools such as this will help meet the challenge of relating the growing volume of genetic knowledge in model organisms to the diversity of phenotypes in nature. The Phenoscape KB is available at http://kb.phenoscape.org.', u'Many evolutionary processes result in sufficiently low mean fitness that they pose a risk of species extinction.   Sex-ratio meiotic drive was recognized by W.D. Hamilton (1967) to pose such a risk, because as the driving sex chromosome becomes common, the opposite sex becomes rare.  We expand on Hamilton\u2019s classic model by allowing for the escape from extinction due to evolution of suppressors of X and Y drivers.   We explore differences in the two systems in their probability of escape from extinction.  Several novel conclusions are evident, including a) that extinction time scales approximately with the log of population size so that even large populations may go extinct quickly, b) extinction risk is driven by the relationship between female fecundity and drive strength, c) anisogamy and the fact that X and Y drive result in sex ratios skewed in opposite directions, mean systems with Y drive are much more likely to go extinct than those with X drive, and d) suppressors are most likely to become established when the strength of drive is intermediate, since weak drive leads to weak selection for suppression and strong drive leads to rapid extinction.', u'Abstract \nBackground: Trastuzumab showed survival benefit for Her2-positive gastroesophageal cancers (GEC). Immunohistochemistry (IHC) and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) currently determine eligibility for trastuzumab-based therapy. However, both assays are low throughput with various limitations. \nMethods: We developed a selected reaction monitoring mass spectrometric (SRM-MS) assay and quantified levels (amol/ug) of Her2-SRM in cell lines (n=27) and GEC tissues (n=139). We compared Her2-SRM expression with IHC/FISH, seeking to determine optimal SRM expression cut-offs to identify HER2 amplification. \nResults: After demonstrating assay development, precision, and stability, Her2-SRM measurement was observed to be highly concordant with HER2/CEP17 ratio, particularly in a multivariate regression model adjusted for SRM-expression of Met, Egfr, Her3, and HER2-heterogeneity covariates, and their interactions (cell lines r2=0.9842; FFPE r2=0.7643). In GEC tissues, Her2-SRM was detected in 71.2% of cases, and 12.3% were identified as \u2018HER2+\u2019. ROC curves demonstrated HER2-SRM levels to have high specificity (100%) at an upper-level cut-off of  >750 amol/\xb5g and sensitivity (75%) at lower-level cut-off of  <450 amol/ug. We observed an \u2018equivocal-zone\u2019 between 450-750 amol/ug, analogous to \u2018IHC2+\u2019, but less frequent (9-16% of cases versus 36-41%). \nSignificance: Compared to IHC, SRM-MS provided more objective and quantitative Her2 expression with excellent HER2/CEP17 FISH correlation and fewer \u2018equivocal\u2019 cases. Along with the multiplex capability for other relevant oncoproteins, these results demonstrated a refined HER2 expression assay for clinical application.', u'Ribosome profiling is a promising technology for exploring gene expression. However, ribosome profiling data are characterized by a substantial number of outliers due to technical and biological factors. Here we introduce a simple computational method, Ribo-seq Unit Step Transformation (RUST) for the characterization of ribosome profiling data. We show that RUST is robust and outperforms conventional normalization techniques in the presence of sporadic noise. We used RUST to analyse 28 publicly available ribosome profiling datasets obtained from mammalian cells and tissues and from yeast. This revealed substantial protocol dependent variation in the composition of footprint libraries. We selected a high quality dataset to explore the mRNA features that affect local decoding rates and found that the amino acid identity encoded by the codon in the A-site is the major contributing factor followed by the identity of the codon itself and then the amino acid in the P-site. We also found that bulky amino acids slow down ribosome movement when they occur within the peptide tunnel and Proline residues may decrease or increase ribosome velocities depending on the context in which they occur. Moreover we show that a few parameters obtained with RUST are sufficient for predicting experimental densities with high accuracy. Due to its robustness and low computational demand, RUST could be used for quick routine characterization of ribosome profiling datasets to assess their quality as well as for the analysis of the relative impact of mRNA sequence features on local decoding rates.', u"When cellular traits are measured using high-throughput DNA sequencing quantitative trait loci (QTLs) manifest at two levels: population level differences between individuals and allelic differences between cis-haplotypes within individuals. We present RASQUAL (Robust Allele Specific QUAntitation and quality controL), a novel statistical approach for association mapping that integrates genetic effects and robust modelling of biases in next generation sequencing (NGS) data within a single, probabilistic framework. RASQUAL substantially improves causal variant localisation and sensitivity of association detection over existing methods in RNA-seq, DNaseI-seq and ChIP-seq data. We illustrate how RASQUAL can be used to maximise association detection by generating the first map of chromatin accessibility QTLs (caQTLs) in a European population using ATAC-seq. Despite a modest sample size, we identified 2,706 independent caQTLs (FDR 10%) and illustrate how RASQUAL's improved causal variant localisation provides powerful information for fine-mapping disease-associated variants. We also map \u201cmultipeak\u201d caQTLs, identical genetic associations found across multiple, independent open chromatin regions and illustrate how genetic signals in ATAC-seq data can be used to link distal regulatory elements with gene promoters. Our results highlight how joint modelling of population and allele-specific genetic signals can improve functional interpretation of noncoding variation.", u'Although Siberia was inhabited by modern humans at an early stage, there is still debate over whether this area remained habitable during the extremely cold period of the Last Glacial Maximum or whether it was subsequently repopulated by peoples with a recent shared ancestry. Previous studies of the genetic history of Siberian populations were hampered by the extensive admixture that appears to have taken place among these populations, since commonly used methods assume a tree-like population history and at most single admixture events. We therefore developed a new method based on the covariance of ancestry components, which we validated with simulated data, in order to investigate this potentially complex admixture history and to distinguish the effects of shared ancestry from prehistoric migrations and contact. We furthermore adapted a previously devised method of admixture dating for use with multiple events of gene flow, and applied these methods to whole-genome genotype data from over 500 individuals belonging to 20 different Siberian ethnolinguistic groups. The results of these analyses indicate that there have indeed been multiple layers of admixture detectable in most of the Siberian populations, with considerable differences in the admixture histories of individual populations, and with the earliest events dated to not more than 4500 years ago. Furthermore, most of the populations of Siberia included here, even those settled far to the north, can be shown to have a southern origin. These results provide support for a recent population replacement in this region, with the northward expansions of different populations possibly being driven partly by the advent of pastoralism, especially reindeer domestication. These newly developed methods to analyse multiple admixture events should aid in the investigation of similarly complex population histories elsewhere.', u'The ciliate protozoan Tetrahymena thermophila contains two types of structurally and functionally differentiated nuclei: the transcriptionally active somatic macronucleus (MAC) and the transcriptionally silent germ-line micronucleus (MIC). Here we demonstrate that MAC features well-positioned nucleosomes downstream of transcription start sites (TSS) likely connected with promoter proximal pausing of RNA polymerase II, as well as in exonic regions flanking both the 5\u2032 and 3\u2032 splice sites. In contrast, nucleosomes in MIC are more delocalized. Nucleosome occupancy in MAC and MIC are nonetheless highly correlated with each other and with predictions based upon DNA sequence features. Arrays of well-positioned nucleosomes are often correlated with GC content oscillations, suggesting significant contributions from cis-determinants. We propose that cis- and trans-determinants may coordinately accommodate some well-positioned nucleosomes with important functions, driven by a process in which positioned nucleosomes shape the mutational landscape of associated DNA sequences, while the DNA sequences in turn reinforce nucleosome positioning.', u"Studying the evolution of climatic niches through time in a phylogenetic comparative framework combines species distribution modeling with phylogenies. Phylogenetic comparative studies aid the understanding of the evolution of species' environmental preferences by revealing the underlying evolutionary processes and causes, detecting the differences among groups of species or relative to evolutionary pattern of other phenotypic traits, but also act as a yardstick to gauge the adaptational potential under climate change.  Because several alternatives exist on how to compute and represent the climatic niche, we here review and discuss the current state of the art and propose a best practice to use in comparative studies.  Moreover we outline the common evolutionary models and available model-fitting methods and describe the procedure for ancestral niche reconstruction with the intention to give a broad overview and highlight the most advanced approaches for optimal niche-related comparative studies.", u'A composite likelihood ratio test implemented in the program SweepFinder is a commonly used method for scanning a genome for recent selective sweeps. SweepFinder uses information on the spatial pattern of the site frequency spectrum (SFS) around the selected locus. To avoid confounding effects of background selection and variation in the mutation process along the genome, the method is typically applied only to sites that are variable within species. However, the power to detect and localize selective sweeps can be greatly improved if invariable sites are also included in the analysis. In the spirit of a Hudson-Kreitman-Aguad\xe9 test, we suggest to add fixed differences relative to an outgroup to account for variation in mutation rate, thereby facilitating more robust and powerful analyses. We also develop a method for including background selection modeled as a local reduction in the effective population size. Using simulations we show that these advances lead to a gain in power while maintaining robustness to mutation rate variation. Furthermore, the new method also provides more precise localization of the causative mutation than methods using the spatial pattern of segregating sites alone.', u'Artificial selection has, for decades, provided a powerful approach to study the genetics of adaptation. Using selective-sweep mapping, it is possible to identify genomic regions in populations where the allele-frequencies have diverged during selection. To avoid misleading signatures of selection, it is necessary to show that a sweep has an effect on the selected trait before it can be considered adaptive. Here, we confirm candidate selective-sweeps on a genome-wide scale in one of the longest, on-going bi-directional selection experiments in vertebrates, the Virginia high and low body-weight selected chicken lines. The candidate selective-sweeps represent standing genetic variants originating from the common base-population. Using a deep-intercross between the selected lines, 16 of 99 evaluated regions were confirmed to contain adaptive selective-sweeps based on their association with the selected trait, 56-day body-weight. Although individual additive effects were small, the fixation for alternative alleles in the high and low body-weight lines across these loci contributed at least 40% of the divergence between them and about half of the additive genetic variance present within and between the lines after 40 generations of selection. The genetic variance contributed by the sweeps corresponds to about 85% of the additive genetic variance of the base-population, illustrating that these loci were major contributors to the realised selection-response. Thus, the gradual, continued, long- term selection response in the Virginia lines was likely due to a considerable standing genetic variation in a highly polygenic genetic architecture in the base-population with contributions from a steady release of selectable genetic variation from new mutations and epistasis throughout the course of selection.', u'Genetic architecture is a general terminology used and discussed very often in complex traits genetics. It is related to the number of functional loci involved in explaining variation of a complex trait and the distribution of genetic effects across these loci. Understanding the complexity level of the genetic architecture of complex traits is essential for evaluating the potential power of mapping functional loci and prediction of complex traits. However, there has been no quantitative measurement of the genetic architecture complexity, which makes it difficult to link results from genetic data analysis to such terminology. Inspired by the "Gini index" for measuring income distribution in economics, I develop a genetic architecture score ("GA score") to measure genetic architecture complexity. Simulations indicate that the GA score is an effective measurement of the complexity level of complex traits genetic architecture.', u'We review existing methods for the analysis of RNA-Seq data and place them in a common framework of a sequence of tasks that are usually part of the process. We show that many existing methods produce large numbers of false positives in cases where the null hypothesis is true by construction and where actual data from RNA-Seq studies are used, as opposed to simulations that make specific assumptions about the nature of the data. We show that some of those mathematical assumptions about the data likely are one of the causes of the false positives, and define a general structure that is not apparently subject to these problems. The best performance was shown by limma-voom and by some simple methods composed of easily understandable steps.', u'The pursuit of circuits and metabolic pathways of increasing complexity and robustness in synthetic biology will require engineering new regulatory tools. Feedback control based on relevant molecules, including toxic intermediates and environmental signals, would enable genetic circuits to react appropriately to changing conditions. In this work, variants of qacR, a tetR family repressor, were generated by compu- tational protein design and screened in a cell-free transcription-translation (TX-TL) system for responsiveness to a new targeted effector. The modified repressors target vanillin, a growth-inhibiting small molecule found in lignocellulosic hydrolysates and other industrial processes. Promising candidates from the in vitro screen were further characterized in vitro and in vivo in a gene circuit. The screen yielded two qacR mutants that respond to vanillin both in vitro and in vivo. We believe this process, a combination of the generation of variants coupled with in vitro screening, can serve as a framework for designing new sensors for other target compounds.', u"Integrative analyses of high-throughput omics data have elucidated the aetiology and pathogenesis for complex traits and diseases, and the linking of omics information to electronic health records promises new insights into human health and disease. Recent nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy biomarker profiling has implicated glycoprotein acetyls (GlycA) as a biomarker for cardiovascular risk and all-cause mortality. To elucidate biological processes contributing to GlycA- associated mortality risk, we leveraged human omics data from three population- based cohorts together with nation-wide Finnish hospital and mortality records. Elevated GlycA was associated with myriad infection-related inflammatory processes. Within individuals, elevated GlycA levels were stable over long time periods, up to a decade, and chronically elevated GlycA was also associated with modest elevation of numerous cytokines. Individuals with elevated GlycA also showed increased expression of a transcriptional sub-network, the Neutrophil Degranulation Module (NDM), suggesting an increased activity of microbe-driven immune response. Subsequent analysis of nation-wide hospitalisation and death records was consistent with a microbial basis for GlycA-associated mortality, with each standard deviation increase in GlycA raising an individual's future risk of hospitalization and death from non-localized infection by 40% and 136%, respectively. These results show that, beyond its established role in acute-phase response, elevated GlycA is more broadly a biomarker for low-grade chronic inflammation and increased neutrophil activity. Further, increased risk of susceptibility to severe microbial-infection events in healthy individuals suggests this inflammation is a contributor to mortality risk. Taken together, this study demonstrates the power of an integrative approach that combines omics data and health records to delineate the biological processes underlying a newly discovered biomarker, providing a model strategy for future systems medicine studies.", u'Many ecosystems can experience regime shifts: surprising, large and persistent changes in the function and structure of ecosystems. Assessing whether continued global change will lead to further regime shifts, or has the potential to trigger cascading regime shifts has been a central question in global change policy. Addressing this issue has, however, been hampered by the focus of regime shift research on specific cases and types of regime shifts. To systematically assess the global risk of regime shifts we conducted a comparative analysis of 25 generic types of regime shifts across marine, terrestrial and polar systems; identifying their drivers, and impacts on ecosystem services. Our results show that the drivers of regime shifts are diverse and co-occur strongly, which suggests that continued global change can be expected to synchronously increase the risk of multiple regime shifts. Furthermore, many regime shift drivers are related to climate change and food production, whose links to the continued expansion of human activities makes them difficult to limit. Because many regime shifts can amplify the drivers of other regime shifts, continued global change can also be expected to increase the risk of cascading regime shifts. Nevertheless, the variety of scales at which regime shift drivers operate provides opportunities for reducing the risk of many types of regime shifts by addressing local or regional drivers, even in the absence of rapid reduction of global drivers.', u"The evolution of qualitatively new functions is fundamental for shaping the diversity of life. Such innovations are rare because they require multiple coordinated changes. We sought to understand the evolutionary processes involved in a particular key innovation, whereby phage \u03bb evolved the ability to exploit a novel receptor, OmpF, on the surface of Escherichia coli cells. Previous work has shown that this transition repeatedly evolves in the laboratory, despite requiring four mutations in specific regions of a single gene. Here we examine how this innovation evolved by studying six intermediate genotypes that arose during independent transitions to use OmpF. In particular, we tested whether these genotypes were favored by selection, and how a coevolved change in the hosts influenced the fitness of the phage genotypes. To do so, we measured the fitness of the intermediate types relative to the ancestral \u03bb when competing for either ancestral or coevolved host cells. All six intermediates had improved fitness on at least one host, and four had higher fitness on the coevolved host than on the ancestral host. These results show that the evolution of the phage's new ability to use OmpF was repeatable because the intermediate genotypes were adaptive and, in many cases, because coevolution of the host favored their emergence.", u'Macroscopic descriptions of populations commonly assume that encounters between individuals are well mixed; i.e., each individual has an equal chance of coming into contact with any other individual. Relaxing this assumption can be challenging though, due to the difficulty of acquiring detailed knowledge about the non-random nature of encounters. Here, we fitted a mathematical model of dengue virus transmission to spatial time series data from Pakistan and compared maximum-likelihood estimates of \u201cmixing parameters\u201d when disaggregating data across an urban-rural gradient. We show that dynamics across this gradient are subject not only to differing transmission intensities but also to differing strengths of nonlinearity due to differences in mixing. We furthermore show that neglecting spatial variation in mixing can lead to substantial underestimates of the level of effort needed to control a pathogen with vaccines or other control efforts. We complement this analysis with relevant contemporary environmental drivers of dengue.', u'The role of rare missense variants in disease causation remains difficult to interpret. We explore whether the clustering pattern of rare missense variants (MAF<0.01) in a protein is associated with mode of inheritance. Mutations in genes associated with autosomal dominant (AD) conditions are known to result in either loss or gain of function, whereas mutations in genes associated with autosomal recessive (AR) conditions invariably result in loss of function. Loss- of-function mutations tend to be distributed uniformly along protein sequence, while gain-of- function mutations tend to localize to key regions. It has not previously been ascertained whether these patterns hold in general for rare missense mutations. We consider the extent to which rare missense variants are located within annotated protein domains and whether they form clusters, using a new unbiased method called CLUstering by Mutation Position (CLUMP). These approaches quantified a significant difference in clustering between AD and AR diseases. Proteins linked to AD diseases exhibited more clustering of rare missense mutations than those linked to AR diseases (Wilcoxon P=5.7x10-4, permutation P=8.4x10-4). Rare missense mutation in proteins linked to either AD or AR diseases were more clustered than controls (1000G) (Wilcoxon P=2.8x10-15 for AD and P=4.5x10-4 for AR, permutation P=3.1x10-12 for AD and P=0.03 for AR). Differences in clustering patterns persisted even after removal of the most prominent genes. Testing for such non-random patterns may reveal novel aspects of disease etiology in large sample studies.', u'A method of sequencing peptides using tandem cells (RSC Adv., 2015, 5, 167-171; RSC Adv., 2015, 5, 30694-30700) and peptidases is considered. A double tandem cell (two tandem cells in tandem) has three nanopores in series, an amino-acid-specific endopeptidase attached downstream of the first pore, and an exopeptidase attached downstream of the second pore. The endopeptidase cleaves a peptide threaded through the first pore into fragments that are well separated in time. Fragments pass through the second pore and are each cleaved by the exopeptidase into a series of single residues; the latter pass through the third pore and cause separate current blockades that can be counted. This leads to an ordered list of integers corresponding to the number of residues in each fragment. With 20 cells, one per amino acid type, and 20 peptide copies, the resulting 20 lists of integers are used by a simple algorithm to assemble the sequence. This is a quasi-digital process that uses the lengths of subsequences to sequence the peptide, it differs from conventional analog methods which seek to identify monomers in a polymer via differences in blockade levels, residence times, or transverse currents. Several implementation issues are discussed. In particular the problem of fast analyte translocation, widely considered intransigent,  may be resolved through the use of a sufficiently long (40-60 nm) third pore. This translates to a required bandwidth of 1-2 MHz, which is within the range of currently available CMOS circuits.', u"Is visual cortex made up of general-purpose information processing machinery, or does it consist of a collection of specialized modules? If prior knowledge, acquired from learning a set of objects is only transferable to new objects that share properties with the old, then the recognition system's optimal organization must be one containing specialized modules for different object classes. Our analysis starts from a premise we call the invariance hypothesis: that the computational goal of the ventral stream is to compute an invariant-to-transformations and discriminative signature for recognition. The key condition enabling approximate transfer of invariance without sacrificing discriminability turns out to be that the learned and novel objects transform similarly. This implies that the optimal recognition system must contain subsystems trained only with data from similarly-transforming objects and suggests a novel interpretation of domain-specific regions like the fusiform face area (FFA). Furthermore, we can define an index of transformation-compatibility, computable from videos, that can be combined with information about the statistics of natural vision to yield predictions for which object categories ought to have domain-specific regions in agreement with the available data. The result is a unifying account linking the large literature on view-based recognition with the wealth of experimental evidence concerning domain-specific regions.", u'Rapid and accurate detection of antibiotic resistance in pathogens is an urgent need, affecting both patient care and population-scale control. Microbial genome sequencing promises much, but many barriers exist to its routine deployment. Here, we address these challenges, using a de Bruijn graph comparison of clinical isolate and curated knowledge-base to identify species and predict resistance profile, including minor populations. This is implemented in a package, Mykrobe predictor, for S. aureus and M. tuberculosis, running in under three minutes on a laptop from raw data. For S. aureus, we train and validate in 495/471 samples respectively, finding error rates comparable to gold-standard phenotypic methods, with sensitivity/specificity of 99.3%/99.5% across 12 drugs. For M. tuberculosis, we identify species and predict resistance with specificity of 98.5% (training/validating on 1920/1609 samples). Sensitivity of 82.6% is limited by current understanding of genetic mechanisms.  We also show that analysis of minor populations increases power to detect phenotypic resistance in second-line drugs without appreciable loss of specificity. Finally, we demonstrate feasibility of an emerging single-molecule sequencing technique.', u'The chemically and physically induced pluripotency in a stem cell is studied from the point of quantum transition between differentiation and pluripotency states in genes. The quantum folding theory of a macromolecule is briefly reviewed. The relation of protein folding rate with the number N of torsion modes participating in the quantum transition (coherence degree) is discussed and a simple statistical relationship is obtained. As a unifying approach to conformational quantum transition the folding rate formula can be generalized from protein to nucleic acid. It is found that the formula of folding rate versus N well fits RNA folding data. Then the quantum folding theory is applied to study the pluripotency conversion in stem cell. We proved that the acquisition of pluripotency is essentially a quantum-stochastic event of small-probability through the comparison of the rate with protein folding. Due to the large coherence degree of DNA and the uphill nature of torsion transition the pluripotency-acquisition rate should be small. By establishing the reaction network of the conformational change of the pluripotency genes the characteristic time of the chemical reprogramming is calculated and the result is consistent with experiments. The dependence of the transition rate on physical factors such as temperature,PH value and the volume and shape of the coherent domain of the gene is analyzed from the rate equation. Based on these studies an approach to the physically induced pluripotency with higher rate is proposed.', u'Elucidating the consequences of genetic differences between humans is essential for understanding phenotypic diversity and personalized medicine. Although variation in RNA levels, transcription factor binding and chromatin have been explored, little is known about global variation in translation and its genetic determinants. We used ribosome profiling, RNA sequencing, and mass spectrometry to perform an integrated analysis in lymphoblastoid cell lines from a diverse group of individuals. We find significant differences in RNA, translation, and protein levels suggesting diverse mechanisms of personalized gene expression control. Combined analysis of RNA expression and ribosome occupancy improves the identification of individual protein level differences.  Finally, we identify genetic differences that specifically modulate ribosome occupancy - many of these differences lie close to start codons and upstream ORFs. Our results reveal a new level of gene expression variation among humans and indicate that genetic variants can cause changes in protein levels through effects on translation.', u'Microbes are main drivers of biogeochemical cycles in oceans and lakes. Yet an understanding of the regulation of such processes is hampered by limited genome-context insight into the metabolic potential of bacterial populations. Here we explored an automatic binning approach to reconstruct representative bacterioplankton genomes from metagenomic samples across a time-series in the Baltic Sea. The 30 unique genomes assembled represent novel species within typical marine and freshwater clades. Analysis of the first genomes for abundant lineages entirely lacking reference genomes, such as OM182, acIV and LD19, uncovered divergent ecological adaptations. While phylogenetic patterns in the seasonal succession of the investigated genomes were evident, closely related genomes sometimes displayed distinct seasonal patterns, that could to some extent be explained by gene content. Signs of streamlining were evident in most genomes; and genome sizes correlated with abundance variation across filter size fractions. Comparisons of 86 aquatic metagenomes against the assembled genomes revealed significant fragment recruitment from brackish waters in North America, but little from lakes or oceans, suggesting the existence of a global brackish microbiome. Current estimates of evolutionary rates imply brackish bacteria diverged from freshwater and marine relatives over 100,000 years ago, long before the Baltic Sea was formed (8000 ya), markedly contrasting the evolutionary history of Baltic Sea macro-organisms, which are locally adapted populations of nearby meta-populations. We have thus demonstrated how metagenome-assembled genomes enable an integrated analysis of ecological patterns, functional potential and evolutionary history of several relevant genomes at a time in natural communities.', u'Genetic interaction can be defined as a deviation of the phenotypic quantitative effect of a double gene mutation from the effect predicted from single mutations using a simple (e.g., multiplicative or linear additive) statistical model. Experimentally characterized genetic interaction networks in model organisms provide important insights into relationships between different biological functions. We describe a computational methodology allowing to systematically and quantitatively characterize a Boolean mathematical model of a biological network in terms of genetic interactions between all loss of function and gain of function mutations with respect to all model phenotypes or outputs. We use the probabilistic framework defined in MaBoSS software, based on continuous time Markov chains and stochastic simulations. In addition, we suggest several computational tools for studying the distribution of double mutants in the space of model phenotype probabilities. We demonstrate this methodology on three published models for each of which we derive the genetic interaction networks and analyze their properties. We classify the obtained interactions according to their class of epistasis, dependence on the chosen initial conditions and phenotype. The use of this methodology for validating mathematical models from experimental data and designing new experiments is discussed.', u'Woolly mammoths and the living elephants are characterized by major phenotypic differences that allowed them to live in very different environments. To identify the genetic changes that underlie the suite of adaptations in woolly mammoths to life in extreme cold, we sequenced the nuclear genome from three Asian elephants and two woolly mammoths, identified and functionally annotated genetic changes unique to the woolly mammoth lineage. We find that genes with mammoth specific amino acid changes are enriched in functions related to circadian biology, skin and hair development and physiology, lipid metabolism, adipose development and physiology, and temperature sensation. Finally we resurrect and functionally test the mammoth and ancestral elephant TRPV3 gene, which encodes a temperature sensitive transient receptor potential (thermoTRP) channel involved in thermal sensation and hair growth, and show that a single mammoth-specific amino acid substitution in an otherwise highly conserved region of the TRPV3 channel strongly affected its temperature sensitivity. Our results have identified a set of genetic changes that likely played important roles in the adaptation of woolly mammoths to life in the high artic.', u'This paper presents the Regime Shifts Database (RSDB), a new online, open-access database that uses a novel consistent framework to systematically analyze regime shifts based on their impacts, key drivers, underlying feedbacks, and management options. The database currently contains 27 generic types of regime shifts, and over 300 specific case studies of a variety of regime shifts. These regime shifts occur across diverse types of systems and are driven by many different types of processes. Besides impacting provisioning and regulating services, our work shows that regime shifts substantially impact cultural and aesthetic ecosystem services. We found that social-ecological feedbacks are difficult to characterize and more work is needed to develop new tools and approaches to better understand social-ecological regime shifts. We hope that the database will stimulate further research on regime shifts and make available information that can be used in management, planning and assessment.', u'Here we present the first genomic data for the African wolf (Canis aureus lupaster) and conclusively demonstrate that it is a unique taxon and not a hybrid between other canids. These animals are commonly misclassified as golden jackals (Canis aureus) and have never been included in any large-scale studies of canid diversity and biogeography, or in investigations of the early stages of dog domestication. Applying massive Restriction Site Associated DNA (RAD) sequencing, 110481 polymorphic sites across the genome of 7 individuals of African wolf were aligned and compared with other wolf-like canids (golden jackal, Holarctic grey wolf, Ethiopian wolf, side-striped jackal and domestic dog). Analyses of this extensive sequence dataset (ca. 8.5Mb) show conclusively that the African wolves represent a distinct taxon more closely related to the Holarctic grey wolf than to the golden jackal. Our results strongly indicate that the distribution of the golden jackal needs to be re-evaluated and point towards alternative hypotheses for the evolution of the rare and endemic Ethiopian wolf (Canis simensis). Furthermore, the extension of the grey wolf phylogeny and distribution opens new possible scenarios for the timing and location of dog domestication.', u'MicroRNAs are well-established players in the development of multicellular animals. Most of our understanding of microRNA function in arthropod development comes from studies in Drosophila. Despite their advantages as model systems, the long germband embryogenesis of fruit flies is an evolutionary derived state restricted to several holometabolous insect lineages. MicroRNA evolution and expression across development in animals exhibiting the ancestral and more widespread short germband mode of embryogenesis has not been characterized. We sequenced small RNA libraries of oocytes and successive time intervals covering the embryonic development of the short germband model organism, the red flour beetle Tribolium castaneum.  We analysed the evolution and temporal expression of the microRNA complement, and sequenced libraries of total RNA to investigate the relationships with microRNA target expression. We show microRNA maternal loading and sequence-specific 3\u2032-end non-template oligoadenylation of maternally deposited microRNAs that is conserved between Tribolium and Drosophila. We further uncover large clusters encoding multiple paralogs from several Tribolium-specific microRNA families expressed during a narrow interval of time immediately after the activation of zygotic transcription. These novel microRNAs, together with several early expressed conserved microRNAs, target a significant number of maternally deposited transcripts. Comparison with Drosophila shows that microRNA-mediated maternal transcript targeting is a conserved phenomenon in insects, but the number and sequences of microRNAs involved in this process have diverged. The expression of fast-evolving and species-specific microRNAs in the early blastoderm of T. castaneum is consistent with previous findings in Drosophila and shows that the unique permissiveness for microRNA innovation at this stage is a conserved phenomenon.', u'There are many different forms of genomic structural variation that can be broadly classified as copy number variation (CNV) and balanced rearrangements. Although many algorithms are now available in the literature that aim to characterize CNVs, discovery of balanced rearrangements (inversions and translocations) remains an open problem. This is mainly because the breakpoints of such events typically lie within segmental duplications and common repeats, which reduce the mappability of short reads. The 1000 Genomes Project spearheaded the development of several methods to identify inversions, however, they are limited to relatively short inversions, and there are currently no available algorithms to discover large inversions using high throughput sequencing technologies (HTS).\n\nHere we propose to use a sequencing method (Kitzman et al., 2011) originally developed to improve haplotype resolution to characterize large genomic inversions. This method, called pooled clone sequencing, merges the advantages of clone based sequencing approach with the speed and cost efficiency of HTS technologies. Using data generated with pooled clone sequencing method, we developed a novel algorithm, dipSeq, to discover large inversions (>500 Kbp). We show the power of dipSeq first on simulated data, and then apply it to the genome of a HapMap individual (NA12878). We were able to accurately discover all previously known and experimentally validated large inversions in the same genome. We also identified a novel inversion, and confirmed using fluorescent in situ hybridization.\n\nAvailability: Implementation of the dipSeq algorithm is available at https://github.com/BilkentCompGen/dipseq', u"The extent to which populations experiencing shared selective pressures adapt through a shared genetic response is relevant to many questions in evolutionary biology.  In a number of well studied traits and species, it appears that convergent evolution within species is common. In this paper, we explore how standing, genetic variation contributes to convergent genetic responses in a geographically spread population, extending our previous work on the topic. Geographically limited dispersal slows the spread of each selected allele, hence allowing other alleles \u2013 newly arisen mutants or present as standing variation \u2013 to spread before any one comes to dominate the population. When such alleles meet, their progress is substantially slowed \u2013 if the alleles are selectively equivalent, they mix slowly, dividing the species range into a random tessellation, which can be well understood by analogy to a Poisson process model of crystallization. In this framework, we derive the geographic scale over which a typical allele is expected to dominate, the time it takes the species to adapt as a whole, and the proportion of adaptive alleles that arise from standing variation. Finally, we explore how negative pleiotropic effects of alleles before an environment change can bias the subset of alleles that contribute to the species' adaptive response. We apply the results to the many geographically localized G6PD deficiency alleles thought to confer resistance to malaria, where the large mutational target size makes it a likely candidate for adaptation from standing variation, despite the selective cost of G6PD deficiency alleles in the absence of malaria. We find the numbers and geographic spread of these alleles matches our predictions reasonably well, consistent with the view that they arose from a combination of standing variation and new mutations since the advent of malaria. Our results suggest that much of adaptation may be geographically local even when selection pressures are homogeneous.  Therefore, we argue that caution must be exercised when arguing that strongly geographically restricted alleles are necessarily the outcome of local adaptation. We close by discussing the implications of these results for ideas of species coherence and the nature of divergence between species.", u'Bumble bees represent a taxon with an intermediate level of eusociality within Hymenoptera. The clear division of reproduction between a single founding queen and the largely sterile workers is characteristic for highly eusocial species, whereas the morphological similarity between the bumble bee queen and the workers is typical for more primitively eusocial hymenopterans. Also, unlike other highly eusocial hymenopterans, division of labour among worker sub-castes is plastic and not predetermined by morphology or age. We conducted a differential expression analysis based on RNA-seq data from 11 combinations of developmental stage and caste to investigate how a single genome can produce the distinct castes of queens, workers and males in the buff-tailed bumble bee Bombus terrestris. Based on expression patterns, we found males to be the most distinct of all adult castes (2,411 transcripts differentially expressed compared to non-reproductive workers). However, only relatively few transcripts were differentially expressed between males and workers during development (larvae: 71, pupae: 162). This indicates the need for more distinct expression patterns to control behaviour and physiology in adults compared to those required to create different morphologies. Among female castes, reproductive workers and their non-reproductive sisters displayed differential expression in over ten times more transcripts compared to the differential expression found between reproductive workers and their mother queen. This suggests a strong shift towards a more queen-like behaviour and physiology when a worker becomes fertile. This contrasts with eusocial species where reproductive workers are more similar to non-reproductive workers than the queen.', u"In times of severe environmental changes and resulting shifts in the geographical distribution of animal and plant species it is crucial to unravel the mechanisms responsible for the dynamics of species' ranges. Without such a mechanistic understanding, reliable projections of future species distributions are difficult to derive. Species' ranges may be highly dynamic. One particularly interesting phenomenon is range contraction following a period of expansion, referred to as `elastic' behaviour. It has been proposed that this phenomenon occurs in habitat gradients, which are characterized by a negative cline in selection for dispersal from the range core towards the margin, as one may find, for example, with increasing patch isolation. Using individual-based simulations and numerical analyses we show that Allee effects are an important determinant of range border elasticity. If only intra-specific processes are considered, Allee effects are even a necessary condition for ranges to exhibit elastic behavior. The eco-evolutionary interplay between dispersal evolution, Allee effects and habitat isolation leads to lower colonization probability and higher local extinction risk after range expansions, which result in an increasing amount of marginal sink patches and consequently, range contraction. We also demonstrate that the nature of the gradient is crucial for range elasticity. Gradients which do not select for lower dispersal at the margin than in the core (especially gradients in patch size, demographic stochasticity and extinction rate) do not lead to elastic range behavior. Thus, we predict that range contractions are likely to occur after periods of expansion for species living in gradients of increasing patch isolation, which suffer from Allee effects.", u'Neural circuits for behavior transform sensory inputs into motor outputs in patterns with strategic value. Determining how neurons along a sensorimotor circuit contribute to this transformation is central to understanding behavior. To do this, a quantitative framework to describe behavioral dynamics is needed. Here, we built a high-throughput optogenetic system for Drosophila larva to quantify the sensorimotor transformations underlying navigational behavior. We express CsChrimson, a red-shifted variant of Channelrhodopsin, in specific chemosensory neurons, and expose large numbers of freely moving animals to random optogenetic activation patterns. We quantify their behavioral responses and use reverse correlation analysis to uncover the linear and static nonlinear components of navigation dynamics as functions of optogenetic activation patterns of specific sensory neurons. We find that linear-nonlinear (LN) models accurately predict navigational decision-making for different optogenetic activation waveforms. We use our method to establish the valence and dynamics of navigation driven by optogenetic activation of different combinations of bitter sensing gustatory neurons. Our method captures the dynamics of optogenetically-induced behavior in compact, quantitative transformations that can be used to characterize circuits for sensorimotor processing and their contribution to navigational decision-making.', u'Dominance hierarchies are group-level properties that emerge from the aggressions of individuals. Although individuals can gain critical benefits from their position in a hierarchy, we do not understand how real-world hierarchies form, or what signals and decision-rules individuals use to construct and maintain them in the absence of simple cues. A study of aggression in two groups of captive monk parakeets (Myiopsitta monachus) found a transition to large-scale ordered aggression occurred in newly-formed groups after one week, with individuals thereafter preferring to direct aggression against those nearby in rank. We describe two mechanisms by which individuals may determine rank order: inference based on overall levels of aggression, or on subsets of the aggression network. Both pathways were predictive of individual decisions to aggress. Based on these results, we present a new theory, of a feedback loop between knowledge of rank and consequent behavior, that explains the transition to strategic aggression, and the formation and persistence of dominance hierarchies in groups capable of both social memory and social inference.', u'N-terminal acetylation (NTA) is one of the most abundant protein modifications known, and the N-terminal acetyltransferase (NAT) machinery is conserved throughout all Eukarya. Over the past 50 years, the function of NTA has begun to be slowly elucidated, and this includes the modulation of protein-protein interaction, protein-stability, protein function, and protein targeting to specific cellular compartments. Many of these functions have been studied in the context of Naa10/NatA; however, we are only starting to really understand the full complexity of this picture. Roughly, about 40 % of all human proteins are substrates of Naa10 and the impact of this modification has only been studied for a few of them. Besides acting as a NAT in the NatA complex, recently other functions have been linked to Naa10, including post-translational NTA, lysine acetylation, and NAT/KAT-independent functions. Also, recent publications have linked mutations in Naa10 to various diseases, emphasizing the importance of Naa10 research in humans. The recent design and synthesis of the first bisubstrate inhibitors that potently and selectively inhibit the NatA/Naa10 complex, monomeric Naa10, and hNaa50 further increases the toolset to analyze Naa10 function.', u'While complex dynamic biological networks control gene expression and metabolism in all living organisms, engineering comparable synthetic networks remains challenging1,2. Conducting extensive, quantitative and rapid characterization during the design and implementation process of synthetic networks is currently severely limited due to cumbersome molecular cloning and the difficulties associated with measuring parts, components and systems in cellular hosts. Engineering gene networks in a cell-free environment promises to be an efficient and effective approach to rapidly develop novel biological systems and understand their operating regimes3-5. However, it remains questionable whether complex synthetic networks behave similarly in cells and a cell-free environment, which is critical for in vitro approaches to be of significance to biological engineering. Here we show that synthetic dynamic networks can be readily implemented, characterized, and engineered in a cell-free framework and consequently transferred to cellular hosts. We implemented and characterized the \u201crepressilator\u201d6, a three-node negative feedback oscillator in vitro. We then used our cell-free framework to engineer novel three-node, four-node, and five-node negative feedback architectures going from the characterization of circuit components to the rapid analysis of complete networks. We validated our cell-free approach by transferring these novel three-node and five-node oscillators to Escherichia coli, resulting in robust and synchronized oscillations reflecting the in vitro observation. We demonstrate that comprehensive circuit engineering can be performed in a cell-free system and that the in vitro results have direct applicability in vivo. Cell-free synthetic biology thus has the potential to drastically speed up design-build-test cycles in biological engineering and enable the quantitative characterization of synthetic and natural networks.', u'Summary:\nWhile de novo assembly graphs contain assembled contigs (nodes), the connections between those contigs (edges) are difficult for users to access. Bandage (a Bioinformatics Application for Navigating De novo Assembly Graphs Easily) is a tool for visualising assembly graphs with connections. Users can zoom in to specific areas of the graph and interact with it by moving nodes, adding labels, changing colours and extracting sequences. BLAST searches can be performed within the Bandage GUI and the hits are displayed as highlights in the graph. By displaying connections between contigs, Bandage presents new possibilities for analysing de novo assemblies that are not possible through investigation of contigs alone.\n\nAvailability and implementation:\nSource code and binaries are freely available at https://github.com/rrwick/Bandage. Bandage is implemented in C++ and supported on Linux, OS X and Windows.\n\nContact:\nrrwick@gmail.com\n\nSupplementary information:\nA full feature list and screenshots are available at Bioinformatics online and http://rrwick.github.io/Bandage.', u'Understanding how DNA sequence variation is translated into variation for complex phenotypes has remained elusive, but is essential for predicting adaptive evolution, selecting agriculturally important animals and crops, and personalized medicine. Here, we quantified genome-wide variation in gene expression in the sequenced inbred lines of the Drosophila melanogaster Genetic Reference Panel (DGRP). We found that a substantial fraction of the Drosophila transcriptome is genetically variable and organized into modules of genetically correlated transcripts, which provide functional context for newly identified transcribed regions. We identified regulatory variants for the mean and variance of gene expression, the latter of which could often be explained by an epistatic model. Expression quantitative trait loci for the mean, but not the variance, of gene expression were concentrated near genes. This comprehensive characterization of population scale diversity of transcriptomes and its genetic basis in the DGRP is critically important for a systems understanding of quantitative trait variation.', u'Development of next-generation sequencing has revolutionized molecular biology by enhancing the ability to perform genome-wide studies. However, due to the need for bioinformatic expertise and the size of resulting datasets, use of these technologies is still beyond the capabilities of many laboratories. Herein, we present the Wardrobe Experiment Management System, which allows users to store, visualize and analyze epigenomic and transcriptomic next-generation sequencing data using a biologist-friendly, web-based graphical user interface without the need for programming expertize. Wardrobe can be installed on consumer-class hardware within an institutional local network. Analysis capabilities include predefined pipelines that allow the user to download data from either institutional core facilities or public databases, perform quality control, map reads and visualize data on a built-in mirror of the University of California, Santa Cruz (UCSC) genome browser. Reads per kilobase of transcript per million reads mapped (RPKMs) are calculated for RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq), and islands of enrichment are identified for chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-Seq) and similar datasets. Advanced analysis capabilities include analyzing differential gene expression and binding and creating average tag density profiles and heatmaps. The Wardrobe package and documentation is available at https://biowardrobe.com.\nA limited functionality demo-version is available at http://demo.biowardrobe.com', u'A correspondence with respect to:\n\nComprehensive evaluation of differential gene expression analysis methods for RNA-seq data\nRapaport F, Khanin R, Liang Y, Pirun M, Krek A, Zumbo P, Mason CE, Socci ND and Betel D, Genome Biol 2013, 14:R95', u'Transposable elements (TEs) are major drivers of genomic and phenotypic evolution, yet many questions about their biology remain poorly understood. Here, we compare TE abundance between populations of the two sister species D. mauritiana und D. simulans and relate it to the more distantly related D. melanogaster.\nThe low population frequency of most TE insertions in D. melanogaster and D. simulans has been a key feature of several models of TE evolution. In D. mauritiana, however, the majority of TE insertions are fixed (66%). We attribute this to a lower transposition activity of up to 47 TE families in D. mauritiana, rather than stronger purifying selection. Only three families, including the extensively studied Mariner, may have a higher activity in D. mauritiana. This remarkable difference in TE activity between two recently diverged Drosophila species (\u2248 250,000 years), also supports the hypothesis that TE copy numbers in Drosophila may not reflect a stable equilibrium where the rate of TE gains equals the rate of TE losses by negative selection.\nWe propose that the transposition rate heterogeneity results from the contrasting ecology of the two species: the extent of vertical extinction of TE families and horizontal acquisition of active TE copies may be very different between the colonizing D. simulans and the island endemic D. mauritiana. Our findings provide novel insights in the evolution of TEs in \nDrosophila and suggest that the ecology of the host species could be a major, yet underappreciated, factor governing the evolutionary dynamics of TEs.', u'Estimating SNP-heritability from summary statistics using LD Score regression provides a convenient alternative to standard\nvariance component models, because LD Score regression is computationally very fast and does not require individual genotype data.\nHowever, the mathematical relationship between variance component methods and LD Score regression is not clear;\nin particular, it is not known in general how much of an increase in standard error one incurs by working with summary data instead of individual genotypes.\n\nIn this paper, I show that in samples of unrelated individuals,\nLD Score regression with constrained intercept is essentially the same as Haseman-Elston (HE) regression,\nwhich is currently the state-of-the-art method for estimating SNP-heritability from ascertained case/control samples.\nSimilar results hold for SNP-genetic correlation.', u'In the last decade a number of algorithms and associated software were developed to align next generation sequencing (NGS) reads to relevant reference genomes. The results of these programs may vary significantly, especially when the NGS reads are contain mutations not found in the reference\ngenome. Yet there is no standard way to compare these programs and assess\ntheir biological relevance.\n\nWe propose a benchmark to assess accuracy of the short reads mapping\nbased on the precomputed global alignment of closely related genome sequences. In this paper we outline the method and also present a short report of an experiment performed on five popular alignment tools.', u'In tropical forests, one of the most common relationships between parasites and insects is that between the fungus Ophiocordyceps (Ophiocordycipitaceae, Hypocreales, Ascomycota) and ants, especially within the tribe Camponotini. These fungi have the ability to penetrate the exoskeleton of the ant and to manipulate the behavior of the host, making it leave the nest and ascend understorey shrubs, to die biting onto the vegetation: hence, the term zombie-ant fungi to describe this behavioral changes on the host. It is posited that this behavioral change aids spore dispersal and thus increases the chances of infection. Despite their undoubted importance for ecosystem functioning, these fungal pathogens are still poorly documented, especially regarding their diversity, ecology and evolutionary relationships. Here, we describe multiple new and host-specific species of the genus Ophiocordyceps on Camponotus and Polyrhachis ants from the central Amazonian region of Brazil, USA, Australia and Japan, which can readily be separated using classic taxonomic criteria, in particular ascospore morphology.', u'Background\nCorals are capable of launching diverse immune defenses at the site of direct contact with pathogens, but the molecular mechanisms of this activity and the colony-wide effects of such stressors remain poorly understood. Here we compared gene expression profiles in eight healthy Acropora hyacinthus colonies against eight colonies exhibiting tissue loss commonly associated with white syndromes, all collected from a natural reef environment near Palau.  Two types of tissues were sampled from diseased corals: visibly affected and apparently healthy. \n \nResults\nTag-based RNA-Seq followed by weighted gene co-expression network analysis identified groups of co-regulated differentially expressed genes between all health states (disease lesion, apparently healthy tissues of diseased colonies, and fully healthy).  Differences between healthy and diseased tissues indicate activation of several innate immunity and tissue repair pathways accompanied by reduced calcification and the switch towards metabolic reliance on stored lipids.  Unaffected parts of diseased colonies, although displaying a trend towards these changes, were not significantly different from fully healthy samples. Still, network analysis identified a group of genes, suggestive of altered immunity state, that were specifically up-regulated in unaffected parts of diseased colonies. \nConclusions\nSimilarity of fully healthy samples to apparently healthy parts of diseased colonies indicates that systemic effects of white syndromes on A. hyacinthus are weak, which implies that the coral colony is largely able to sustain its physiological performance despite disease. The genes specifically up-regulated in unaffected parts of diseased colonies, instead of being the consequence of disease, might be related to the originally higher susceptibility of these colonies to naturally occurring white syndromes.', u"Extracting biologically meaningful information from the continuing flood of genomic data is a major challenge in the life sciences.\nCodon usage bias (CUB) is a general feature of most genomes and is thought to reflect the effects of both natural selection for efficient translation and mutation bias.\nHere we present a mechanistically interpretable, Bayesian model (ROC SEMPPR) to extract biologically meaningful information from patterns of CUB within a genome.\nROC SEMPPR, is grounded in population genetics and allows us to separate the contributions of mutational biases and natural selection against translational inefficiency on a gene by gene and codon by codon basis.\nUntil now, the primary disadvantage of similar approaches was the need for genome scale measurements of gene expression.  \nHere we demonstrate that it is possible to both extract accurate estimates of codon specific mutation biases and translational efficiencies while simultaneously generating accurate estimates of gene expression, rather than requiring such information.\nWe demonstrate the utility of ROC SEMPPR using the Saccharomyces cerevisiae S288c genome.\nWhen we compare our model fits with previous approaches we observe an exceptionally high agreement between estimates of both codon specific parameters and gene expression levels  (\u03c1 > 0.99 in all cases).\nWe also observe strong agreement between our parameter estimates and those derived from alternative datasets.\nFor example, our estimates of mutation bias and those from mutational accumulation experiments are highly correlated (\u03c1=0.95).\nOur estimates of codon specific translational inefficiencies are tRNA copy number based estimates of ribosome pausing time (\u03c1 = 0.64), and mRNA and ribosome profiling footprint based estimates of gene expression (\u03c1=0.53-0.74) are also highly correlated, thus supporting the hypothesis that selection against translational inefficiency is an important force driving the evolution of CUB.\nSurprisingly, we find that for particular amino acids, codon usage in highly expressed genes can still be largely driven by mutation bias and that failing to take mutation bias into account can lead to the misidentification of an amino acid's `optimal' codon.\nIn conclusion, our method demonstrates that an enormous amount of biologically important information is encoded within genome scale patterns of codon usage, accessing this information does not require gene expression measurements, but instead carefully formulated biologically interpretable models.", u"benchmarkR is an R package designed to assess and visualize the performance of statistical methods for datasets that have an independent truth (e.g., simulations or datasets with large-scale validation), in particular for methods that claim to control false discovery rates (FDR). We augment some of the standard performance plots (e.g., receiver operating characteristic, or ROC, curves) with information about how well the methods are calibrated (i.e., whether they achieve their expected FDR control). For example, performance plots are extended with a point to highlight the power or FDR at a user-set threshold (e.g., at a method's estimated 5% FDR). The package contains general containers to store simulation results (SimResults) and methods to create graphical summaries, such as receiver operating characteristic curves (rocX), false discovery plots (fdX) and power-to-achieved FDR plots (powerFDR); each plot is augmented with some form of calibration information. We find these plots to be an improved way to interpret relative performance of statistical methods for genomic datasets where many hypothesis tests are performed. The strategies, however, are general and will find applications in other domains.", u'Many biologically important traits are binomially distributed, with their key phenotypes being presence or absence.  Despite their prevalence, estimating the heritability of binomial traits presents both experimental and statistical challenges.  Here we develop both an empirical and computational methodology for estimating the narrow-sense heritability of binary traits for highly fecund species. Our experimental approach controls for undesirable culturing effects, while minimizing culture numbers, increasing feasibility in the field. Our statistical approach accounts for known issues with model-selection by using a permutation test to calculate significance values and includes both fitting and power calculation methods.  We illustrate our methodology by estimating the narrow-sense heritability for larval settlement, a key life-history trait, in the reef-building coral Orbicella faveolata. The experimental, statistical and computational methods, along with all of the data from this study, were deployed in the R package multiDimBio.', u'For efficient background matching it is essential that animals closely match a set of salient visual statistics of their visual surroundings. The mean intensity of a background is a key statistic, because it can be estimated across a large range of viewing distances by a simple computation. We investigated how the dynamic neuromuscular camouflage system of the cuttlefish Sepia offcinalis responds to changes in the mean background intensity of uniform backgrounds. We find that cuttlefish adapt their body intensity in response to variations in the mean background intensity, yet show biases in their body intensity beyond what can be predicted from the limited dynamic range of their camouflage system. On sandy backgrounds of various reflectance values their uniform body patterns maintain a constant yellow hue. This color constancy may represent an example of a color prior in a colorblind animal because a yellow body color would be the optimal hue for camouflage on sands typically encountered in their natural environment. Cuttlefish adapt their appearance to the background via a dynamic process composed of a complex mixture of intensity transients spanning timescales from the subsecond to the minute range. In very young animals camouflaging on dark sands the masquerade strategy is preferred over background matching. Masquerade is implemented by combining partial background matching with frequent expression of disruptive components. We furthermore provide an objective definition of disruptive components using hierarchical clustering and automated image analysis thus highlighting the role of chromatophore activity correlations in structuring the motor output of S.officinalis.', u'It is increasingly argued that cancer stem cells are not a cellular phenotype but rather a transient state that cells can acquire, either through intrinsic signaling cascades or in response to environmental cues. While cancer stem cell plasticity is generally associated with increased aggressiveness and treatment resistance, we set out to thoroughly investigate the impact of different rates of plasticity on early and late tumor growth dynamics and the response to therapy. We develop an agent-based model of cancer stem cell driven tumor growth, in which plasticity is defined as a spontaneous transition between stem and non-stem cancer cell states. Simulations of the model show that plasticity can substantially increase tumor growth rate and invasion. At high rates of plasticity, however, the cells get exhausted and the tumor will undergo spontaneous remission in the long term. In a series of in silico trials we show that such remission can be facilitated through radiotherapy. The presented study suggests that stem cell plasticity has rather complex, non-intuitive implications on tumor growth and treatment response. Further theoretical, experimental and integrated studies are needed to fully decipher cancer stem cell plasticity and how it can be harnessed for novel therapeutic approaches.', u'For a scientific discipline to be interdisciplinary it must satisfy two conditions; it must consist of contributions from at least two existing disciplines and it must be able to provide insights, through this interaction, that neither progenitor discipline could address.  In this paper, I examine the complete body of peer-reviewed literature self-identified as landscape genetics using the statistical approaches of text mining and natural language processing.  The goal here is to quantify the kinds of questions being addressed in landscape genetic studies, the ways in which questions are evaluated mechanistically, and how they are differentiated from the progenitor disciplines of landscape ecology and population genetics.  I then circumscribe the main factions within published landscape genetic papers examining the extent to which emergent questions are being addressed and highlighting a deep bifurcation between existing individual- and population-based approaches.  I close by providing some suggestions on where theoretical and analytical work is needed if landscape genetics is to serve as a real bridge connecting evolution and ecology sensu lato.', u'Many important questions in medicine involve questions about causality, For example, do low levels of high-density lipoproteins (HDL) cause heart disease? Does high body mass index (BMI) cause type 2 diabetes? Or are these traits simply correlated in the population for other reasons?  A popular approach to answering these problems using human genetics is called "Mendelian randomization". We discuss the prospects and limitations of this approach, and some ways forward.', u'The use of genomic data in the clinic has not been as widespread as was envisioned when sequencing and genomic analysis became common techniques. An underlying difficulty is the direct assessment of how much\nadditional information genomic data are providing beyond standard clinical measurements. This is hard to quantify in the clinical setting where laboratory tests based on genomic signatures are fairly new and there are not sufficient data collected to determine how valuable these tests have been in practice. Here we focus on the potential precision gain from using the popular MammaPrint genomic signature in a covariate-adjusted, randomized clinical trial. We describe how adjustment of an estimator for the average treatment effect using baseline measurements can improve precision. This precision gain can be translated directly into sample size reduction and corresponding cost savings. We conduct a simulation study using genomic and clinical data gathered for breast cancer patients and find that adjusting for clinical factors alone provides a gain in precision of 5-6%, adjusting for genomic factors alone provides a similar gain (5%), and combining the two yields a 2-3% additional gain over only adjusting for clinical covariates.', u'Identifying functional regions in the human genome is a major goal in human genetics. Great efforts have been made to functionally annotate the human genome either through computational predictions, such as genomic conservation, or high-throughput experiments, such as the ENCODE project. These efforts have resulted in a rich collection of functional annotation data of diverse types that need to be jointly analyzed for integrated interpretation and annotation. Here we present GenoCanyon, a whole-genome annotation method that performs unsupervised statistical learning using 22 computational and experimental annotations thereby inferring the functional potential of each position in the human genome. With GenoCanyon, we are able to predict many of the known functional regions. The ability of predicting functional regions as well as its generalizable statistical framework makes GenoCanyon a unique and powerful tool for whole-genome annotation. The GenoCanyon web server is available at http://genocanyon.med.yale.edu', u'Water recreation, though increasing globally, is strongly associated with infectious diseases. Unexpectedly, artificial water recreation systems e.g. swimming pools account for 90% of these outbreaks. It is therefore essential that pool waters be regularly monitored for deviations from microbial water quality guidelines. To assess the sanitary quality of a club swimming pool in Ile-Ife, Nigeria, I used the multiple-tube fermentation technique to determine the most probable number (MPN) of coliform bacteria in 100 ml of pool water. MPN estimates ranged from 9 to 93 with geometric mean of 38. Escherichia coli was isolated from positive presumptive tubes, indicating recent faecal contamination. The isolate elicited similar biochemical reactions as reference E. coli (ATCC-25922), except that it utilized sucrose and liquefied gelatin, which probably indicates potential pathogenicity. Also, the E. coli isolate was resistant to 13 antibiotics from 9 different classes. Finally, coliform counts and detection of E. coli clearly violates international guidelines. I recommend that pool operators increase water disinfection efficiency and educate the public on the need for improved swimmer hygiene to reduce the risk of recreational water illness transmission.', u'Most methods for performing a phylogenetic analysis based on sequence alignments of gene data assume that the mechanism of evolution is constant through time. It is recognised that some sites do evolve somewhat faster than others, and this can be captured using a (gamma) rate heterogeneity model. Further, some species have shorter replication times than others, and this results in faster rates of substitution in some lineages. This feature of lineage specific rate variation can be captured to some extent, by using relaxed clock models. However, it is also clear that there are additional poorly characterised features of sequence data that can sometimes lead to extreme differences in lineage specific rates. This variation is poorly captured by constant time reversible substitution models.  The significance of extreme lineage specific rate differences is that they lead both to errors in reconstructing evolutionary relationships as well as biased estimates for the age of ancestral nodes. We propose a new model that allows gamma rate heterogeneity to change on branches, thus offering a more realistic model of sequence evolution. It adds negligible computational cost to likelihood calculations. We illustrate its effectiveness with an example of green algae and land-plants. For many real world data sets, we find a much better fit with multi-gamma sites models as well as substantial differences in ancestral node date estimates.', u'DNA methylation is an epigenetic modification that plays a key role in gene regulation.  Previous studies have investigated its genetic basis by mapping genetic variants that are associated with DNA methylation at specific sites, but these have been limited to microarrays that cover less than 2% of the genome and cannot account for allele-specific methylation (ASM).  Other studies have performed whole-genome bisulfite sequencing on a few individuals, but these lack statistical power to identify variants associated with DNA methylation.  We present a novel approach in which bisulfite-treated DNA from many individuals is sequenced together in a single pool, resulting in a truly genome-wide map of DNA methylation.  Compared to methods that do not account for ASM, our approach increases statistical power to detect associations while sharply reducing cost, effort, and experimental variability.  As a proof of concept, we generated deep sequencing data from a pool of 60 human cell lines; we evaluated almost twice as many CpGs as the largest microarray studies and identified over 2,000 genetic variants associated with DNA methylation.  We found that these variants are highly enriched for associations with chromatin accessibility and CTCF binding but are less likely to be associated with traits indirectly linked to DNA, such as gene expression and disease phenotypes.  In summary, our approach allows genome-wide mapping of genetic variants associated with DNA methylation in any tissue of any species, without the need for individual-level genotype or methylation data.', u'Coherent percepts emerge from the accurate combination of inputs from the different sensory systems. There is an ongoing debate about the neurophysiological mechanisms of crossmodal interactions in the brain, and it has been proposed that transient synchronization of neurons might be of central importance. Oscillatory activity in lower frequency ranges (< 30 Hz) has been implicated in mediating long-range communication as typically studied in multisensory research. In the current study, we recorded high-density electroencephalograms while human participants were engaged in a visuotactile pattern matching paradigm and analyzed oscillatory power in the theta- (4-7 Hz), alpha- (8-13 Hz) and beta-bands (13-30 Hz). Employing the same physical stimuli, separate tasks of the experiment either required the detection of predefined targets in visual and tactile modalities or the explicit evaluation of crossmodal stimulus congruence. Analysis of the behavioral data showed benefits for congruent visuotactile stimulus combinations. Differences in oscillatory dynamics related to crossmodal congruence within the two tasks were observed in the beta-band for crossmodal target detection, as well as in the theta-band for congruence evaluation. Contrasting ongoing activity preceding visuotactile stimulation between the two tasks revealed differences in the alpha- and beta-bands. Source reconstruction of between-task differences showed prominent involvement of premotor cortex, supplementary motor area, somatosensory association cortex and the supramarginal gyrus. These areas not only exhibited more involvement in the pre-stimulus interval for target detection compared to congruence evaluation, but were also crucially involved in post-stimulus differences related to crossmodal stimulus congruence within the detection task. These results add to the increasing evidence that low frequency oscillations are functionally relevant for integration in distributed brain networks, as demonstrated for crossmodal interactions in visuotactile pattern matching in the current study.', u'Protein expression and post-translational modification levels are tightly regulated in neoplastic cells to maintain cellular processes known as ?cancer hallmarks?. The first Pan-Cancer initiative of The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) Research Network has aggregated protein expression profiles for 3,467 patient samples from 11 tumor types using the antibody based reverse phase protein array (RPPA) technology. The resultant proteomic data can be utilized to computationally infer protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks and to study the commonalities and differences across tumor types. In this study, we compare the performance of 13 established network inference methods in their capacity to retrieve literature-curated pathway interactions from RPPA data. We observe that no single method has the best performance in all tumor types, but a group of six methods, including diverse techniques such as correlation, mutual information, and regression, consistently rank highly among the tested methods. A consensus network from this high-performing group reveals that signal transduction events involving receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs), the RAS/MAPK pathway, and the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway, as well as innate and adaptive immunity signaling, are the most significant PPIs shared across all tumor types. Our results illustrate the utility of the RPPA platform as a tool to study proteomic networks in cancer.', u'Phylogenetic comparative methods are increasingly used to give new insight into variation, causes and consequences of trait variation among species. The foundation of these methods is a suite of models that attempt to capture evolutionary patterns by extending the Brownian constant variance model. However, the parameters of these models have been hypothesised to be biased and only asymptotically behave in a statistically predictable way as datasets become large. This does not seem to be widely appreciated. We show that a commonly used model in evolutionary biology (the Ornstein-Uhlenbeck model) is biased over a wide range of conditions. Many studies fitting this model use datasets that are small and prone to substantial biases. Our results suggest that simulating fitted models and comparing with empirical results is critical when fitting OU and other extensions of the Brownian model.', u"Current biology is perplexed by the lack of a theoretical framework for understanding the organization principles of the molecular system within a cell.  Here we first studied growth rate, one of the seemingly most complex cellular traits, using functional data of yeast single-gene deletion mutants.  We observed nearly one thousand expression informative genes (EIGs) whose expression levels are linearly correlated to the trait within an unprecedentedly large functional space.  A simple model considering six EIG-formed protein modules revealed a variety of novel mechanistic insights, and also explained ~50% of the variance of cell growth rates measured by Bar-seq technique for over 400 yeast mutants (Pearson's R = 0.69), a performance comparable to the microarray-based (R = 0.77) or colony-size-based (R = 0.66) experimental approach.  We then applied the same strategy to 501 morphological traits of the yeast and achieved successes in most fitness-coupled traits each with hundreds of trait-specific EIGs.  Surprisingly, there is no any EIG found for most fitness-uncoupled traits, indicating that they are controlled by super-complex epistases that allow no simple expression-trait correlation.  Thus, EIGs are recruited exclusively by natural selection, which builds a rather simple functional architecture for fitness-coupled traits, and the endless complexity of a cell lies primarily in its fitness-uncoupled features.", u'Recent advances in genome-scale metabolic network reconstruction paved the way to the use of quantitative modelings such as FBA. However, despite the great interest of these techniques to tackle quantitative features, microbial community modeling remains unclear. Whereas studies represent a microbial community with several compartments for each microbial strains and their common pool, others advocate for the use of a single compartment that combines all reactions. Here we show that both modelings lead to different optimal quantitative solutions. This study illustrates this difference by the use of the flux module technique, that describes, in a compact way, the optimal solution space as computed by FBA-like techniques. For application, this paper computes the flux modules of a hot spring microbial community (represented by Synechococcus spp., Chloroflexus and Roseiflexus spp.) and  a microbial methagenic system (Desulvovibrio vulgaris and Methanococcus maripaludis) sulfate reducing bacteria), while emphasizing the quantitative changes that occurs when one assumes either the consortium as a \u201csingle compartment\u201d or a multiple compartment.', u'White-nose syndrome (WNS), a disease caused by the fungus Pseudogymnoascus destructans1, has spread west from New York to Missouri and has killed more than six million bats2. In bat hibernacula where WNS is present, mass mortality has been observed and there is a high potential for population collapse or extinction of some species at a regional level. Although WNS is not yet present in the western U.S. , the high diversity of bat species3 and appropriate conditions for P. destructans in area caves may put these populations at risk. The absence of WNS in western caves provides a unique opportunity to ask questions about how bat species, geographic location, and habitat shape pre-WNS microbiota. The importance of microbiota is shown in many organisms, including amphibians, where individuals that survive a chytrid infection carry a higher prevalence of Janthinobacterium lividum4. The establishment of a pre-WNS baseline microbiota of western bats is critical to understanding how P. destructans may impact the native microbiota of the bats. Previous studies5,6 that identified the microbiota of bats have focused on gut and fecal microbiota, with little attention given to the external microbiota. Here we show for the first time that there are biogeographic differences in the abundance and diversity of external bat microbiota. From our 202 (62 cave-netted, 140 surface-netted) bat samples belonging to 13 species of western bats uninfected with WNS, we identified differences in microbiota diversity among sites, and between cave bats versus surface-netted bats, regardless of sex and species. These results present novel information about the factors that shape external microbiota of bats providing new insights into potential vulnerability of different bat species to WNS.', u'The expansion of DUF1220 domain copy number during human evolution is a dramatic example of rapid and repeated domain duplication. However, the phenotypic relevance of DUF1220 dosage is unknown. Although patterns of expression, homology and disease associations suggest a role in cortical development, this hypothesis has not been robustly tested using phylogenetic methods. Here, we estimate DUF1220 domain counts across 12 primate genomes using a nucleotide Hidden Markov Model. We then test a series of hypotheses designed to examine the potential evolutionary significance of DUF1220 copy number expansion. Our results suggest a robust association with brain size, and more specifically neocortex volume. In contradiction to previous hypotheses we find a strong association with postnatal brain development, but not with prenatal brain development. Our results provide further evidence of a conserved association between specific loci and brain size across primates, suggesting human brain evolution occurred through a continuation of existing processes.', u'Although the exact level of TSH that is indicative of risk of pregnancy loss is not known, a number of studies have suggested a range of values for TSH level that are associated with first trimester pregnancy loss. We conducted an unmatched case-control study to test if a TSH level above 2.1 mlU/L is associated with first trimester pregnancy loss in anti-TPO antibody negative women. We found relatively higher number of women in the case group (18) whose TSH level was above 2.1 mlU/L compared to 7 women in control group. When considered patients in Group I (TSH \u22642.1 mlU/L), 45.74% had miscarriage while 54.26% did not have miscarriage within first trimester of pregnancy. Among the Group II patients (TSH >2.1 mlU/L), 78% had miscarriage and 28% did not have miscarriage. Noticeably there is a larger proportion of miscarriage among the women with TSH level above 2.1 mlU/L. The association between TSH level and first trimester pregnancy loss was statistically significant (p=.0196). From the multivariate analysis, odds ratio for TSH level (OR 4.0, 95% CI: 1.44-11.16) indicates that odds of having miscarriage whose TSH level is above 2.1 mlU/L is 4 times compared to those with TSH level below 2.1 mlU/L after adjusting for the effects of age and BMI. At a global level, the findings of this study provide evidence to the existing discussion on redefining the upper limit of TSH level that is related to first trimester pregnancy loss. At the local level, the results will have direct implication in facilitating management of future pregnancies particularly during the first trimester among Bangladeshi thyroid autoantibody negative women.', u'The post-genomic era has brought opportunities to bridge traditionally separate fields on early history of life. New methods promote a deeper understanding of the origin of biodiversity. Relative stabilities of base triplexes are able to regulate base substitutions in triplex DNAs. We constructed a roadmap based on such a regulation to explain concurrent origins of the genetic code and the homochirality of life. Based on the recruitment order of codons in the roadmap and the complete genome sequences, we reconstructed the three-domain tree of life. The Phanerozoic biodiversity curve has been reconstructed based on genomic, climatic and eustatic data; this result supports tectonic cause of mass extinctions. Our results indicate that chirality played a crucial role in the origin and evolution of life. Here is Part I of my two-part series paper; technical details are in Part II of my paper (see \u201cConcurrent origins of the genetic code and the homochirality of life, and the origin and evolution of biodiversity. Part II: Technical appendix\u201d on bioRxiv).', u"Conserved genetic programs often predate the homologous structures and phenotypes to which they give rise; eyes, for example, have evolved several dozen times, but their development seems to involve a common set of conserved genes. Recently, the concept of orthologous phenotypes (or phenologs) offered a quantitative way to describe this property. Phenologs are phenotypes or diseases from separate species who share an unexpectedly large set of their associated gene orthologs. It has been shown that the phenotype pairs which make up a phenolog are mutually predictive in terms of the genes involved. Recently, we demonstrated the ranking of gene\u2013phenotype association predictions using multiple phenologs from an array of species. In this work, we demonstrate a computational method which provides a more targeted view of the conserved pathways which give rise to diseases. Our approach involves the generation of synthetic pseudo-phenotypes made up of Boolean combinations (union, intersection, and difference) of the gene sets for phenotypes from our database. We search for diseases that overlap significantly with these Boolean phenotypes, and find a number of highly predictive combinations. While set unions produce less specific predictions (as expected), intersection and difference-based combinations appear to offer insights into extremely specific aspects of target diseases. For example, breast cancer is predicted by zebrafish methylmercury response minus metal ion response, with predictions MT-COI, JUN, SOD2, GADD45B, and BAX all involved in the pro-apoptotic response to reactive oxygen species, thought to be a key player in cancer. We also demonstrate predictions from Arabidopsis Boolean phenotypes for increased brown adipose tissue in mouse (salt stress response's intersection with sucrose stimulus response); and for human myopathy (red light response minus water deprivation response). We demonstrate the ranking of predictions for human holoprosencephaly from the set intersections between each pair of a variety of closely-related zebrafish phenotypes. Our results suggest that Boolean phenolog combinations may provide a more informed insight into the conserved pathways underlying diseases than either regular phenologs or the na\xefve Bayes approach.", u'With high-throughput sequencing data generated for multiple epigenetic features in many cell\ntypes, a chief challenge is to explain the dynamics in multiple epigenomes that lead to differential\nregulation and phenotypes. We introduce a Bayesian framework for jointly annotating multiple\nepigenomes and detecting differential regulation among multiple cell types. Our method, IDEAS\n(integrative and discriminative epigenome annotation system), achieves superior power by\nmodeling both position and cell type specific epigenetic activities. Using ENCODE data sets in 6\ncell types, we identified epigenetic variation strongly associated with differential gene expression.\nThe detected regions are significantly enriched in disease genetic variants with much stronger\nenrichment scores than achievable by existing methods, and the enriched phenotypes are highly\nrelevant to the corresponding cell types. IDEAS is a powerful tool for integrative epigenome\nannotation and detection of variation, which could be of important utility in elucidating the\ninterplay between genetics, gene regulation and diseases.', u'Dispersal, and the underlying movement behaviour, are processes of pivotal importance for understanding and predicting metapopulation and metacommunity dynamics. Generally, dispersal decisions are non-random and rely on information, such as the presence of conspecifics. However, studies on metacommunities that include interspecific interactions generally disregard information use. Therefore, it remains unclear whether and how dispersal in metacommunities is informed and whether rules derived from single-species contexts can be scaled up to (meta-)communities. Using experimental protist metacommunities, we show how dispersal and movement are informed and adjusted by the strength of inter-specific interactions. We found that predicting informed movement and dispersal in metacommunities requires knowledge on behavioural responses to intra- and inter-specific interaction strength. Consequently, metacommunity dynamics inferred directly from single-species metapopulations without taking inter-specific interactions into account are likely flawed. Our work identifies the significance of information use for understanding metacommunity dynamics, stability and the coexistence and distribution of species.', u'Primates can recognize objects embedded in complex natural scenes in a glimpse. Rapid categorization paradigms have been extensively used to study our core perceptual abilities when the visual system is forced to operate under strong time constraints. However, the neural underpinning of rapid categorization remains to be understood, and the incredible speed of sight has yet to be reconciled with modern ventral stream cortical theories of shape processing.\nHere we recorded multichannel subdural electrocorticogram (ECoG) signals from intermediate areas (V4/PIT) of the ventral stream of the visual cortex while monkeys were actively engaged in detecting the presence or absence of animal targets in natural scenes. Using multivariate pattern analysis (MVPA) techniques, we quantified at millisecond precision task-relevant signals conveyed by ECoG data. Reliable neural decoding was possible shortly after stimulus onset from single trials with a degree of generalization to experimental manipulations closely mimicking monkeys\u2019 accuracy and reaction time. \nTogether, the present study suggests that rapid ventral stream neural activity induces a selective task-relevant signal subsequently used to drive visual categorization.', u'Here is Part II of my two-part series paper, which provides technical details and evidence for Part I of this paper (see \u201cConcurrent origins of the genetic code and the homochirality of life, and the origin and evolution of biodiversity. Part I: Observations and explanations\u201d on bioRxiv).', u'We present CIDANE, a novel framework for genome-based transcript reconstruction and quantification from RNA-seq reads. CIDANE assembles transcripts with significantly higher sensitivity and precision than existing tools, while competing in speed with the fastest methods. In addition to reconstructing transcripts ab initio, the algorithm also allows to make use of the growing annotation of known splice sites, transcription start and end sites, or full-length transcripts, which are available for most model organisms. CIDANE supports the integrated analysis of RNA-seq and additional gene-boundary data and recovers splice junctions that are invisible to other methods. CIDANE is available at http://ccb.jhu.edu/software/cidane/.', u'A key feature of cell migration is how cell movement is affected by cell-cell interactions. Furthermore, many cell migratory processes such as neural crest stem cell migration [1, 2] occur on growing domains or in the presence of a chemoattractant. Therefore, it is important to study interactions between migrating cells in the context of domain growth and directed motility. Here we compare discrete and continuum models describing the spatial and temporal evolution of a cell population for different types of cell-cell interactions on static and growing domains. We suggest that cell-cell interactions can be inferred from population density characteristics in the presence of motility bias, and these population density characteristics for different cell-cell interactions are conserved on both static and growing domains. We also study the expected displacement of a tagged cell, and show that different types of cell-cell interactions can give rise to cell trajectories with different characteristics. These characteristics are conserved in the presence of domain growth, however, they are diminished in the presence of motility bias. Our results are relevant for researchers who study the existence and role of cell-cell interactions in biological systems, so far as we suggest that different types of cell-cell interactions could be identified from cell density and trajectory data.', u'Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) are a diverse class of RNAs with increasingly appreciated functions in vertebrates, yet much of their biology remains poorly understood. In particular, it is unclear to what extent the current catalog of over 10,000 distinct annotated lncRNAs is indeed devoid of genes coding for proteins. Here we review the available computational and experimental schemes for distinguishing between recent genome-wide applications. We conclude that the model most consistent with available data is that a large number of mammalian lncRNAs undergo translation, but only a very small minority of such translation events result in stable and functional peptides. The outcome of the majority of the translation events and their potential biological purposes remain an intriguing topic for future investigation.', u'Diapause and aging are controlled by overlapping genetic mechanisms in C.elegans and these include microRNAs (miRNAs). Here, we investigated miRNA regulation in embryos of annual killifish that naturally undergo diapause to overcome desiccation of their habitats. We compared miRNA expression in diapausing and non-diapausing embryos in three independent lineages of killifish. We identified 13 miRNAs with similar regulation in all three lineages. One of these is miR-430, which is known as key regulator of early embryonic development in fish. We further tested whether this regulation overlaps with the aging-dependent regulation of miRNAs in one annual species: Nothobranchius furzeri. We found that miR-101a and miR-18a are regulated in the same direction during diapause and aging. These results provide the first evidence that overlapping genetic networks control diapause and aging in vertebrates and suggest that diapause mimics aging to some extent', u"Species' geographic ranges vary enormously, and even closest relatives may differ in range size by several orders of magnitude. With data from hundreds of species spanning 20 genera in 15 families, we show that plant species that autonomously reproduce via self-pollination consistently have larger geographic ranges than their close relatives that generally require two parents for reproduction. Further analyses strongly implicate autonomous self-fertilization in causing this relationship, as it is not driven by traits such as polyploidy or annual life history whose evolution is sometimes correlated with autonomous self-fertilization. Furthermore, we find that selfers occur at higher maximum latitudes and that disparity in range size between selfers and outcrossers increases with time since their separation. Together, these results show that autonomous reproduction - a critical biological trait that eliminates mate limitation and thus potentially increases the probability of establishment - increases range size.", u'Methods for detecting the genomic signatures of natural selection have been heavily studied, and they have been successful in identifying many selective sweeps. For most of these sweeps, the favored allele remains unknown, making it difficult to distinguish carriers of the sweep from non-carriers. In an ongoing selective sweep, carriers of the favored allele are likely to contain a future most recent common ancestor. Therefore, identifying them may prove useful in predicting the evolutionary trajectory \u2014 for example, in contexts involving drug-resistant pathogen strains or cancer subclones. The main contribution of this paper is the development and analysis of a new statistic, the Haplotype Allele Frequency (HAF) score. The HAF score, assigned to individual\nhaplotypes in a sample, naturally captures many of the properties shared by haplotypes carrying a favored allele. We provide a theoretical framework for computing expected HAF scores under different evolutionary scenarios, and we validate the theoretical predictions with simulations. As an application of HAF score computations, we develop an algorithm (PreCIOSS: Predicting Carriers of Ongoing Selective Sweeps) to identify carriers of the favored allele in selective sweeps, and we demonstrate its power on simulations of both hard and soft sweeps, as well as on data from well-known sweeps in human populations.', u'Projections from the substantia nigra and striatum traverse through the pallidum on the\nway to their targets. To date, in vivo characterization of these pathways remains elusive.\nHere we used high angular resolution diffusion imaging (N=138) to study the\ncharacteristics and structural subcompartments of the human pallidum. Our results\nshow that the diffusion orientation distribution at the pallidum is asymmetrically oriented\nin a dorsolateral direction, consistent with the orientation of underlying fiber systems.\nFurthermore, compared to the outer pallidal segment, the internal segment has more\npeaks in the orientation distribution function and stronger anisotropy in the primary fiber\ndirection, consistent with known cellular differences between the underlying nuclei.\nThese differences in orientation, complexity, and degree of anisotropy are sufficiently\nrobust to automatically segment the pallidal nuclei using diffusion properties. Thus the\ngray matter diffusion signal can be useful as an in vivo measure of the collective\nnigrostriatal and striatonigral pathways.', u'We have carried out a comprehensive analysis of the determinants of human influenza A H3 hemagglutinin evolution, considering three distinct predictors of evolutionary variation at individual sites: solvent accessibility (as a proxy for protein fold stability and/or conservation), experimental epitope sites (as a proxy for host immune bias), and proximity to the receptor-binding region (as a proxy for protein function). We found that these three predictors individually explain approximately 15% of the variation in site-wise dN/dS. The solvent accessibility and proximity predictors were largely independent of each other, while the epitope sites were not. In combination, solvent accessibility and proximity explained 32% of the variation in dN/dS. Incorporating experimental epitope sites into the model added only an additional 2 percentage points. We also found that the historical H3 epitope sites, which date back to the 1980s and 1990s, showed only weak overlap with the latest experimental epitope data. Finally, sites with dN/dS>1, i.e., the sites most likely driving seasonal immune escape, are not correctly predicted by either historical or experimental epitope sites, but only by proximity to the receptor-binding region. In summary, proximity to the receptor-binding region, and not host immune bias, seems to be the primary determinant of H3 evolution.', u'Imputation of genotypes in a study sample can make use of sequenced or densely genotyped external reference panels consisting of individuals that are not from the study sample. It can also employ internal reference panels, incorporating a subset of individuals from the study sample itself. Internal panels offer an advantage over external panels, as they can reduce imputation errors arising from genetic dissimilarity between a population of interest and a second, distinct population from which the external reference panel has been constructed. As the cost of next-generation sequencing decreases, internal reference panel selection is becoming increasingly feasible. However, it is not clear how best to select individuals to include in such panels. We introduce a new method for selecting an internal reference panel???minimizing the average distance to the closest leaf (ADCL)???and compare its performance relative to an earlier algorithm: maximizing phylogenetic diversity (PD). Employing both simulated data and sequences from the 1000 Genomes Project, we show that ADCL provides a significant improvement in imputation accuracy, especially for imputation of sites with low-frequency alleles. This improvement in imputation accuracy is robust to changes in reference panel size, marker density, and length of the imputation target region.', u'The central challenge in tumor sequencing studies is to identify driver genes and pathways, investigate their functional relationships and nominate drug targets. The efficiency of these analyses, particularly for infrequently mutated genes, is compromised when patients carry different combinations of driver mutations. Mutual exclusivity analysis helps address these challenges. To identify mutually exclusive gene sets (MEGS), we developed a powerful and flexible analytic framework based on a likelihood ratio test and a model selection procedure. Extensive simulations demonstrated that our method outperformed existing methods for both statistical power and the capability of identifying the exact MEGS, particularly for highly imbalanced MEGS. Our method can be used for de novo discovery, pathway-guided searches or for expanding established small MEGS. We applied our method to the whole exome sequencing data for fourteen cancer types from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). We identified multiple previously unreported non-pairwise MEGS in multiple cancer types. For acute myeloid leukemia, we identified a novel MEGS with five genes (FLT3, IDH2, NRAS, KIT and TP53) and a MEGS (NPM1, TP53 and RUX1) whose mutation status was strongly associated with survival (P=6.7\xd710-4). For breast cancer, we identified a significant MEGS consisting of TP53 and four infrequently mutated genes (ARID1A, AKT1, MED23 and TBL1XR1), providing support for their role as cancer drivers.\nKeywords: Mutual exclusivity, oncogenic pathways, driver genes, tumor sequencing', u'Slow neural dynamics are believed to be important for behavior, learning and memory. Rate models operating in the chaotic regime show a rich dynamics at the scale of hundreds of milliseconds and provide remarkable learning capabilities. However, neurons in the brain communicate via spikes and it is a major challenge in computational neuroscience to obtain similar slow rate dynamics in networks of spiking neuron models. This question was addressed in a recent paper by Ostojic. The central claim of that paper is the existence of two states of asynchronous activity separated by a phase transition in spiking networks with fast synapses. We found that the analysis presented in the paper is factually incorrect and conceptually misleading. We provide compelling evidence that there is no such phase transition.', u'There is increasing evidence that non-annotated short open reading frames (sORFs) can encode functional micropeptides, but computational identification remains challenging. We expand our published method and predict conserved sORFs in human, mouse, zebrafish, fruit fly and the nematode C. elegans. Isolating specific conservation signatures indicative of purifying selection on encoded amino acid sequence, we identify about 2000 novel sORFs in the untranslated regions of canonical mRNAs or on transcripts annotated as non-coding. Predicted sORFs show stronger conservation signatures than those identified in previous studies and are sometimes conserved over large evolutionary distances. Encoded peptides have little homology to known proteins and are enriched in disordered regions and short interaction motifs. Published ribosome profiling data indicate translation for more than 100 of novel sORFs, and mass spectrometry data gives peptidomic evidence for more than 70 novel candidates. We thus provide a catalog of conserved micropeptides for functional validation in vivo.', u'Current methods for assembling metabolic pathways require a process of repeated trial and error and have a long design-build-test cycle. Further, it remains a challenge to precisely tune enzyme expression levels for maximizing target metabolite production. Recently it was shown that a cell-free transcriptional-translation system (TX-TL) can be used to rapidly prototype novel complex biocircuits as well as metabolic pathways. TX-TL systems allow protein expression from multiple DNA pieces, opening up the possibility of modulating concentrations of DNA encoding individual pathway enzymes and testing the related effect on metabolite production. In this work, we demonstrate TX-TL as a platform for exploring the design space of metabolic pathways using a 1,4-BDO biosynthesis pathway as an example. Using TX-TL, we verified enzyme expression and enzyme activity and identified the conversion of 4-hydroxybutyrate to downstream metabolites as a limiting step of the 1,4-BDO pathway. We further tested combinations of various enzyme expression levels and found increasing downstream enzyme expression levels improved 1,4-BDO production.', u"Why do species not adapt to ever-wider ranges of conditions, gradually expanding their ecological niche and geographic range? Gene flow across environments has two conflicting effects: while it increases genetic variation, which is a prerequisite for adaptation, gene flow may swamp adaptation to local conditions.  In 1956, Haldane proposed that when the environment varies across space, ?swamping? by gene flow creates a positive feedback between low population size and maladaptation, leading to a sharp range margin. Yet, current deterministic theory shows that when variance can evolve, there is no such limit. Using simple analytical tools and simulations, we show that genetic drift can generate a sharp margin to a species' range, by reducing genetic variance below the level needed for adaptation to spatially variable conditions. Aided by separation of ecological and evolutionary time scales, the identified effective dimensionless parameters reveal a simple threshold that predicts when adaptation at the range margin fails. Two observable parameters determine the threshold: i) the effective environmental gradient, which can be measured by the loss of fitness due to dispersal to a different environment, and ii) the efficacy of selection relative to genetic drift. The theory predicts sharp range margins even in the absence of abrupt changes in the environment. Furthermore, it implies that gradual worsening of conditions across a species' habitat may lead to a sudden range fragmentation, when adaptation to a wide span of conditions within a single species becomes impossible.", u'In recent years, there have been many calls for an extended evolutionary synthesis, based in part upon growing evidence for non-genetic mechanisms of inheritance, i.e., similarities in phenotype between parents and offspring that are not due to shared genes. While there has been an impressive marshalling of evidence for diverse forms of non-genetic inheritance (epigenetic, ecological, behavioural, symbolic), there have been relatively few studies trying to integrate the different forms of inheritance into a common conceptual structure, a development that would be important to formalizing elements of the extended evolutionary synthesis. Here, we propose a framework for an extended view of inheritance and introduce some conceptual distinctions that we believe are important to this issue. In this framework, the phenotype is conceived of as a dynamic entity, its state at any point in time resulting from intertwined effects of previous phenotypic state, and of hereditary materials (DNA and otherwise) and environment. We contrast our framework with the standard gene-based view of inheritance, and also discuss our framework in the specific context of recent attempts to accommodate non-genetic inheritance within the framework of classical quantitative genetics and the Price equation. In particular, we believe that the extended view of inheritance and effects on the phenotype developed here is particularly well-suited to individual-based simulation studies of evolutionary dynamics. The results of such simulations, in turn, could be useful for assessing how well extended models based on quantitative genetics or the Price equation perform at capturing complex evolutionary dynamics.', u'There is considerable understanding about how laboratory populations respond to predictable (constant or deteriorating-environment) selection for single environmental variables like temperature or pH. However, such insights may not apply when selection environments comprise multiple variables that fluctuate unpredictably, as is common in nature. To address this issue, we grew replicate laboratory populations of E. coli in nutrient broth whose pH and concentrations of salt (NaCl) and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) were randomly changed daily. After ~170 generations, the fitness of the selected populations had not increased in any of the three selection environments. However, these selected populations had significantly greater fitness in four novel environments which have no known fitness-correlation with tolerance to pH, NaCl or H2O2. Interestingly, contrary to expectations, hypermutators did not evolve. Instead, the selected populations evolved an increased ability for energy dependent efflux activity that might enable them to throw out toxins, including antibiotics, from the cell at a faster rate. This provides an alternate mechanism for how evolvability can evolve in bacteria and potentially lead to broad-spectrum antibiotic resistance, even in the absence of prior antibiotic exposure. Given that environmental variability is increasing in nature, this might have serious consequences for public-health.', u'Abstract\nBackground: Complete genome sequences provide many new characters suitable for\nstudying phylogenetic relationships. The limitations of the single sequence-based\nphylogenetic reconstruction prompted the efforts to build trees based on genome-wide\nproperties, such as the fraction of shared orthologous genes or conservation of adjoining\ngene pairs. Gene content-based phylogenies, however, have their own biases: most\nnotably, differential losses and horizontal transfers of genes interfere with phylogenetic\nsignal, each in their own way, and special measures need to be taken to eliminate these\ntypes of noise.\nResults: We expand the repertoire of genome-wide traits available for phylogeny\nbuilding, by developing a practical approach for measuring local gene conservation in\ntwo genomes. We counted the number of orthologous genes shared by chromosomal\nneighborhoods (\u201cbins\u201d), and built the phylogeny of 63 prokaryotic genomes on this basis.\nThe tree correctly resolved all well-established clades, and also suggested the monophyly\nof firmicutes, which tend to be split in other genome-based trees.\nConclusions: Our measure of local gene order conservation extracts strong phylogenetic\nsignal. This new measure appears to be substantially resistant to the observed instances of\ngene loss and horizontal transfer, two evolutionary forces which can cause systematic\nbiases in the genome-based phylogenies.', u"Locomotion is driven by shape changes coordinated by the nervous system through time; thus, enumerating an animal's complete repertoire of shape transitions would provide a basis for a comprehensive understanding of locomotor behaviour. Here we introduce a discrete representation of behaviour in the nematode C. elegans. At each point in time, the worm's posture is approximated by its closest matching template from a set of 90 postures and locomotion is represented as sequences of postures. The frequency distribution of postural sequences is heavy-tailed with a core of frequent behaviours and a much larger set of rarely used behaviours. Responses to optogenetic and environmental stimuli can be quantified as changes in postural syntax: worms show different preferences for different sequences of postures drawn from the same set of templates. A discrete representation of behaviour will enable the use of methods developed for other kinds of discrete data in bioinformatics and language processing to be harnessed for the study of behaviour.", u'Mapping expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) has been shown as a powerful tool to uncover the genetic underpinnings of many complex traits at the molecular level. In this paper, we present an integrative analysis approach that leverages eQTL data collected from multiple population groups. In particular, our approach effectively identifies multiple independent {\\it cis}-eQTL signals that are consistently presented across populations, accounting for heterogeneity in allele frequencies and  patterns of linkage disequilibrium. Furthermore, our analysis framework enables integrating high-resolution functional annotations into analysis of eQTLs. \nWe applied our statistical approach to analyze the GEUVADIS data consisting of samples from five population groups. From this analysis, we concluded that i) joint analysis across population groups greatly improves the power of eQTL discovery and the resolution of fine mapping of causal eQTLs; ii) many genes harbor multiple independent eQTLs in their {\\it cis} regions; iii) genetic variants that disrupt transcription factor binding are significantly enriched in eQTLs (p-value = 4.93 \xd7 10-22).', u'The high density of frequently interacting and closely related individuals in social insects enhance pathogen transmission and establishment within colonies. Group-mediated behavior supporting immune defenses tend to decrease selection acting on immune genes. Along with low effective population sizes this will result in relaxed constraint and rapid evolution of genes of the immune system. Here we show that sociality is the main driver of selection in antiviral siRNAi genes in social bumblebees compared to their socially parasitic cuckoo bumblebees that lack a worker caste. RNAi genes show frequent positive selection at the codon level additionally supported by the occurrence of parallel evolution and their evolutionary rate is linked to their pathway specific position with genes directly interacting with viruses showing the highest rates of molecular evolution. We suggest that indeed higher pathogen load in social insects drive adaptive evolution of immune genes, if not compensated by behavior.', u"Though numerous polymorphisms have been associated with risk of developing lymphoma, how these variants function to promote tumorigenesis is poorly understood. Here, we report that lymphoma risk SNPs, especially in the non-Hodgkin's lymphoma subtype chronic lymphocytic leukemia, are significantly enriched for co-localization with epigenetic marks of active gene regulation. These enrichments were seen in a lymphoid-specific manner for numerous ENCODE datasets, including DNase-hypersensitivity as well as multiple segmentation-defined enhancer regions.  Furthermore, we identify putatively functional SNPs that are both in regulatory elements in lymphocytes and are associated with gene expression changes in blood.  We developed an algorithm, UES, that uses a Monte Carlo simulation approach to calculate the enrichment of previously identified risk SNPs in various functional elements. This multiscale approach integrating multiple datasets helps disentangle the underlying biology of lymphoma, and more broadly, is generally applicable to GWAS results from other diseases as well.", u'High Performance Computing (HPC) Best Practice offers opportunities to implement lessons learned in areas such as computational chemistry and physics in genomics workflows, specifically Next-Generation Sequencing (NGS) workflows. In this study we will briefly describe how distributed-memory parallelism can be an important enhancement to the performance and resource utilization of NGS workflows. We will illustrate this point by showing results on the parallelization of the Inchworm module of the Trinity RNA-Seq pipeline for de novo transcriptome assembly. We show that these types of applications can scale to thousands of cores. Time scaling as well as memory scaling will be discussed at length using two RNA-Seq datasets, targeting the Mus musculus (mouse) and the Axolotl (Mexican salamander). Details about the efficient MPI communication and the impact on performance will also be shown. We hope to demonstrate that this type of parallelization approach can be extended to most types of bioinformatics workflows, with substantial benefits. The efficient, distributed-memory parallel implementation eliminates memory bottlenecks and dramatically accelerates NGS analysis. We further include a summary of programming paradigms available to the bioinformatics community, such as C++/MPI.', u'Lateral asymmetries in body, brain, and cognition are ubiquitous among organisms. Asymmetries in motor-action patterns are a central theme of investigation, among others, as they are likely to have shaped primate evolution, and more specifically, their motor dexterity. Using an adaptationist approach one would argue that these asymmetries were evolutionarily selected because no bilateral organism can maneuver in three-dimensional space unless any one side becomes dominant and always takes the lead. However, which side becomes dominant is beyond the scope of this hypothesis as there is no apparent advantage or disadvantage associated with either the left or the right side. Both the evolutionary origin and adaptive significance of asymmetries in motor-action patterns remain largely unexplored. In the present study, we mathematically model how an asymmetry at a lower level could stimulate as well as govern asymmetries at the next higher level, and this process might reiterate; ultimately lateralizing the whole system. We then show by comparing two systems: one incorporating symmetric and the other incorporating asymmetric motor-action patterns, that (a) the asymmetric system performs better than the symmetric one in terms of time optimization, and (b) as the complexity of the task increases the advantage associated with asymmetries in the motor-action patterns increases. Our minimal model theoretically explains how lateral asymmetries could appear and evolve in a biological system using a systems theory approach.', u'Identifying genetic correlations between complex traits and diseases can provide useful etiological insights and help prioritize likely causal relationships. The major challenges preventing estimation of genetic correlation from genome-wide association study (GWAS) data with current methods are the lack of availability of individual genotype data and widespread sample overlap among meta-analyses. We circumvent these difficulties by introducing a technique for estimating genetic correlation that requires only GWAS summary statistics and is not biased by sample overlap. We use our method to estimate 300 genetic correlations among 25 traits, totaling more than 1.5 million unique phenotype measurements. Our results include genetic correlations between anorexia nervosa and schizophrenia/ body mass index and associations between educational attainment and several diseases. These results highlight the power of a polygenic modeling framework, since there currently are no genome-wide significant SNPs for anorexia nervosa and only three for educational attainment.', u'Resolution of complex repeat structures and rearrangements in the assembly and analysis of large eukaryotic genomes is often aided by a combination of high-throughput sequencing and mapping technologies (e.g. optical restriction mapping). In particular, mapping technologies can generate sparse maps of large DNA fragments (150 kbp--2 Mbp) and thus provide a unique source of information for disambiguating complex rearrangements in cancer genomes. Despite their utility, combining high-throughput sequencing and mapping technologies has been challenging due to the lack of efficient and freely available software for robustly aligning maps to sequences.\nHere we introduce two new map-to-sequence alignment algorithms that efficiently and accurately align high-throughput mapping datasets to large, eukaryotic genomes while accounting for high error rates. In order to do so, these methods (OPTIMA for glocal and OPTIMA-Overlap for overlap alignment) exploit the ability to create efficient data structures that index continuous-valued mapping data while accounting for errors. We also introduce an approach for evaluating the significance of alignments that avoids expensive permutation-based tests while being agnostic to technology-dependent error rates.\nOur benchmarking results suggest that OPTIMA and OPTIMA-Overlap outperform state-of-the-art approaches in sensitivity (1.6--2X improvement) while simultaneously being more efficient (170--200%) and precise in their alignments (99% precision). These advantages are independent of the quality of the data, suggesting that our indexing approach and statistical evaluation are robust and provide improved sensitivity while guaranteeing high precision.', u"Landscapes exhibiting multiple secondary structures arise in natural RNA molecules that modulate gene expression, protein synthesis, and viral infection, but it is unclear whether such rich landscapes are special features of biological sequences or whether they can arise without explicit selection. We report herein that high-throughput chemical experiments can isolate an RNA\u2019s multiple alternative secondary structures as they are stabilized by systematic mutagenesis (mutate-and-map, M2) and that a computational algorithm, REEFFIT, enables unbiased reconstruction of these states' structures and populations. In an in silico benchmark on non-coding RNAs with complex landscapes, M2-REEFFIT recovers 95% of RNA helices present with at least 25% population while maintaining a low false discovery rate (10%) and conservative error estimates. In experimental benchmarks, M2-REEFFIT recovers the structure landscapes of a 35-nt MedLoop hairpin, a 110-nt 16S rRNA four-way junction with an excited state, a 25-nt bistable hairpin, and a 112-nt three-state adenine riboswitch with its expression platform, molecules whose characterization previously required expert mutational analysis and specialized NMR or chemical mapping experiments. With this validation, M2-REEFFIT enabled tests of whether artificial RNA sequences might exhibit complex landscapes in the absence of explicit design. An artificial flavin mononucleotide riboswitch and a randomly generated RNA sequence are found to interconvert between three or more states, including structures for which there was no design, but that could be stabilized through mutations. These results highlight the likely pervasiveness of rich landscapes with multiple secondary structures in both natural and artificial RNAs and demonstrate an automated chemical/computational route for their empirical characterization.", u'The numerical models of populations behaviour, simulated under chang-\ning condition of populations interaction (the hungry or full-fed populations,\nthe existence of persons in the personal areas or in the common territory),\ndemonstrate the increase, reduction or damping of oscillations amplitude,\nthat corresponds qualitatively to known experimental data, obtained for real\npopulation of bacteria.', u'Maca (Lepidium meyenii Walp, 2n = 8x = 64) of Brassicaceae family is an Andean economic plant cultivated on the 4000-4500 meters central sierra in Peru. Considering the rapid uplift of central Andes occurred 5 to 10 million years ago (Mya), an evolutionary question arises on how plants like maca acquire high altitude adaptation within short geological period. Here, we report the high-quality genome assembly of maca, in which two close-spaced maca-specific whole genome duplications (WGDs, ~ 6.7 Mya) were identified. Comparative genomics between maca and close-related Brassicaceae species revealed expansions of maca genes and gene families involved in abiotic stress response, hormone signaling pathway and secondary metabolite biosynthesis via WGDs. Retention and subsequent evolution of many duplicated genes may account for the morphological and physiological changes (i.e. small leaf shape and loss of vernalization) in maca for high altitude environment. Additionally, some duplicated maca genes under positive selection were identified with functions in morphological adaptation (i.e. MYB59) and development (i.e. GDPD5 and HDA9). Collectively, the octoploid maca genome sheds light on the important roles of WGDs in plant high altitude adaptation in the Andes.', u'Background: Coinfection, bacterial or viral origin, in HIV infected individuals remains to be the only leading cause of deaths. This study was designed to analyze received plasma samples and plasma samples of referred patients for HIV testing to detect HIV and HCV mono and co-infection by real time PCR and finding co-relation of viral load of both viruses. Highlight and magnify the hidden coinfection, prior to seroconversion, of HIV type-1 and Hepatitis C Virus in received samples.\nMethods: Analyses were based on randomly selected 78 patients\u2019 stored plasmas. Plasma samples were tested for both, HIV-type 1 and HCV viral RNA by real time PCR. Statistical formulas were used to identify men and the inter quartile range of patients age. The data were analyzed by IBM SPSS Statistics 21 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL). Study variables include gender, age and viral loads of HIV type-1 and HCV. Pearson correlation was used to evaluate any correlation in study variables.\nResult:  Prevalence of HCV was 10.3%, HIV-type 1 was 19.2% and their co-infection was 37.2 percent. Thirty three percent individuals had no infection of both viruses. Gender based distribution showed that 74.4% (58/78) sample population was male. The mono-infection and  co-infection was higher in males (39.7%) and highest viral load too. There was a positive correlation (CI= 95%) between the two variables; HIV and HCV viral loads, as  r = 0.736, n=29, p= 0.001.\nConclusion: Prevalence of HIV type-1 and HCV mono-infection and co-infection was higher among males as compared to females. Increased viral load was also evident among male co-infected individuals. This study proved the emergence of HCV coinfection in HIV infected individuals, and a need for on time diagnosis and treatment. \nI', u'We compared whole-exome sequencing (WES) and whole-genome sequencing (WGS) in six unrelated individuals. In the regions targeted by WES capture (81.5% of the consensus coding genome), the mean numbers of single-nucleotide variants (SNVs) and small insertions/deletions (indels) detected per sample were 84,192 and 13,325, respectively, for WES, and 84,968 and 12,702, respectively, for WGS. For both SNVs and indels, the distributions of coverage depth, genotype quality, and minor read ratio were more uniform for WGS than for WES. After filtering, a mean of 74,398 (95.3%) high-quality (HQ) SNVs and 9,033 (70.6%) HQ indels were called by both platforms. A mean of 105 coding HQ SNVs and 32 indels were identified exclusively by WES, whereas 692 HQ SNVs and 105 indels were identified exclusively by WGS. We Sanger sequenced a random selection of these exclusive variants. For SNVs, the proportion of false-positive variants was higher for WES (78%) than for WGS (17%). The estimated mean number of real coding SNVs (656, ~3% of all coding HQ SNVs) identified by WGS and missed by WES was greater than the number of SNVs identified by WES and missed by WGS (26). For indels, the proportions of false-positive variants were similar for WES (44%) and WGS (46%). Finally, WES was not reliable for the detection of copy number variations, almost all of which extended beyond the targeted regions. Although currently more expensive, WGS is more powerful than WES for detecting potential disease-causing mutations within WES regions, particularly those due to SNVs.', u'Identification of altered pathways that are clinically relevant across human cancers is a key challenge in cancer genomics. We developed a network-based algorithm to integrate somatic mutation data with gene networks and pathways, in order to identify pathways altered by somatic mutations across cancers. We applied our approach to The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) dataset of somatic mutations in 4,790 cancer patients with 19 different types of malignancies. Our analysis identified cancer-type-specific altered pathways enriched with known cancer-relevant genes and drug targets. Consensus clustering using gene expression datasets that included 4,870 patients from TCGA and multiple independent cohorts confirmed that the altered pathways could be used to stratify patients into subgroups with significantly different clinical outcomes. Of particular significance, certain patient subpopulations with poor prognosis were identified because they had specific altered pathways for which there are available targeted therapies. These findings could be used to tailor and intensify therapy in these patients, for whom current therapy is suboptimal.', u'Ribosome profiling is a recently developed high-throughput sequencing technique that captures approximately 30 bp long ribosome-protected mRNA fragments during translation. Because of alternative splicing and repetitive sequences, a ribosome-protected read may map to many places in the transcriptome, leading to discarded or arbitrary mappings when standard approaches are used. We present a technique and software that addresses this problem by assigning reads to potential origins proportional to estimated transcript abundance. This yields a more accurate estimate of ribosome profiles compared with a na\xefve mapping. Ribomap is available as open source at http://www.cs.cmu.edu/\u223cckingsf/software/ribomap.', u'We introduce FinisherSC, which is a repeat-aware and scalable tool for upgrading de-novo assembly using long reads. Experiments with real data suggest that FinisherSC can provide longer and higher quality contigs than existing tools while maintaining high concordance.']