[u"Predators often consume multiple prey and by mutually subsidizing a shared predator, the prey may reciprocally harm each other. When predation levels are high, this apparent competition can culminate in a prey species being displaced. Coupling quantitative genetics and Lotka-Volterra models, we study how predator evolution alters this and other ecological outcomes. These models account for a trade-off between the predator's attack rates on two prey species. We provide a mathematical characterization of a strong form of persistence--permanence--for which there is a global attractor bounded away from extinction. When the evolutionary dynamics occur at a sufficiently slower time scale than the ecological dynamics, we also characterize attractors and their basins' of attraction using singular perturbation theory and a graphical approach to the eco-evolutionary dynamics. Our results show that eco-evolutionary feedbacks can mediate permanence at intermediate trade-offs in the attack rates. However, at strong trade-offs, permanence is lost. Despite this loss of permanence, there can be attractors supporting coexistence. These attractors, however, may coincide with attractors at which the predator is excluded. Our results highlight that evo-evolutionary feedbacks can alter community structure by mediating coexistence or leading to trait-dependent alternative stable states.", u'The innate immune system provides the first response to pathogen infection and orchestrates the activation of the adaptive immune system. Though a large component of the innate immune response is common to all infections, pathogen-specific responses have been documented as well. The innate immune response is thought to be especially critical for fighting infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB), the causative agent of tuberculosis (TB). While TB can be deadly, only 5-10% of individuals infected with MTB develop active disease. The risk for disease susceptibility is, at least partly, heritable. Studies of inter-individual variation in the innate immune response to MTB infection may therefore shed light on the genetic basis for variation in susceptibility to TB. Yet, to date, we still do not know which properties of the innate immune response are specific to MTB infection and which represent a general response to pathogen infection. To begin addressing this gap, we infected macrophages with eight different bacteria, including different MTB strains and related mycobacteria, and studied the transcriptional response to infection. Although the ensued gene regulatory responses were largely consistent across the bacterial infection treatments, we were able to identify a novel subset of genes whose regulation was affected specifically by infection with mycobacteria. Genetic variants that are associated with regulatory differences in these genes should be considered candidate loci for explaining inter-individual susceptibility TB.', u'Although initial studies suggested that Denisovan ancestry was found only in modern human populations from island Southeast Asia and Oceania, more recent studies have suggested that Denisovan ancestry may be more widespread. However, the geographic extent of Denisovan ancestry has not been determined, and moreover the relationship between the Denisovan ancestry in Oceania and that elsewhere has not been studied. Here we analyze genome-wide SNP data from 2493 individuals from 221 worldwide populations, and show that there is a widespread signal of a very low level of Denisovan ancestry across Eastern Eurasian and Native American (EE/NA) populations. We also verify a higher level of Denisovan ancestry in Oceania than that in EE/NA; the Denisovan ancestry in Oceania is correlated with the amount of New Guinea ancestry, but not the amount of Australian ancestry, indicating that recent gene flow from New Guinea likely accounts for signals of Denisovan ancestry across Oceania. However, Denisovan ancestry in EE/NA populations is equally correlated with their New Guinea or their Australian ancestry, suggesting a common source for the Denisovan ancestry in EE/NA and Oceanian populations. Our results suggest that Denisovan ancestry in EE/NA is derived either from common ancestry with, or gene flow from, the common ancestor of New Guineans and Australians, indicating a more complex history involving East Eurasians and Oceanians than previously suspected.', u'The problems with classical frequentist statistics have recently received much attention, yet the enthusiasm of researchers to adopt alternatives like Bayesian inference remains modest. Here I present the bootstrapped evidence test, an objective resampling procedure that takes the precision with which both the experimental and null hypothesis can be estimated into account. Simulations and reanalysis of actual experimental data demonstrate that this test minimizes false positives while maintaining sensitivity. It is equally applicable to a wide range of situations and thus minimizes problems arising from analytical flexibility. Critically, it does not dichotomize the results based on an arbitrary significance level but instead quantifies how well the data support either the alternative or the null hypothesis. It is thus particularly useful in situations with considerable uncertainty about the expected effect size. Because it is non-parametric, it is also robust to severe violations of assumptions made by classical statistics.', u'Multiple pterygium syndromes (MPS) are a phenotypically and genetically heterogeneous group of rare Mendelian conditions characterized by multiple pterygia, scoliosis and congenital contractures of the limbs. MPS typically segregates as an autosomal recessive disorder but rare instances of autosomal dominant transmission have been reported. While several mutations causing recessive MPS have been identified, the genetic basis of dominant MPS remains unknown. We identified four families with dominantly transmitted MPS characterized by pterygia, camptodactyly of the hands, vertebral fusions, and scoliosis. Exome sequencing identified predicted protein-altering mutations in embryonic myosin heavy chain (MYH3) in three families. MYH3 mutations underlie distal arthrogryposis types 1, 2A and 2B, but all mutations reported to date occur in the head and neck domains. In contrast, two of the mutations found to cause MPS occurred in the tail domain. The phenotypic overlap among persons with MPS coupled with physical findings distinct from other conditions caused by mutations in MYH3, suggests that the developmental mechanism underlying MPS differs from other conditions and / or that certain functions of embryonic myosin may be perturbed by disruption of specific residues / domains. Moreover, the vertebral fusions in persons with MPS coupled with evidence of MYH3 expression in bone suggests that embryonic myosin plays a previously unknown role in skeletal development.', u'Expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) are a key tool to dissect cellular processes mediating complex diseases. However, little is known about the role of repetitive elements as eQTLs. We report a genome-wide survey of the contribution of Short Tandem Repeats (STRs), one of the most polymorphic and abundant repeat classes, to gene expression in humans. Our survey identified 2,060 significant expression STRs (eSTRs). These eSTRs were replicable in orthogonal populations and expression assays. We used variance partitioning to disentangle the contribution of eSTRs from linked SNPs and indels and found that eSTRs contribute 10%-15% of the cis-heritability mediated by all common variants. Functional genomic analyses showed that eSTRs are enriched in conserved regions, co-localize with regulatory elements, and are predicted to modulate histone modifications. Our results show that eSTRs provide a novel set of regulatory variants and highlight the contribution of repeats to the genetic architecture of quantitative human traits.', u'The siphonophore Nanomia bijuga is a pelagic hydrozoan (Cnidaria) with complex morphological organization. Each siphonophore is made up of many asexually produced, genetically identical zooids that are functionally specialized and morphologically distinct. These zooids predominantly arise by budding in two growth zones, and are arranged in precise patterns. This study describes the cellular anatomy of several zooid types as well as of the stem and gas-filled float, called the pneumatophore. The distribution of cellular morphologies across zooid types enhances our understanding of zooid function. The unique absorptive cells in the palpon, for example, indicate specialized intracellular digestive processing in this zooid type. Though cnidarians are usually thought of as mono-epithelial, we characterize at least two cellular populations in this species which are not connected to a basement membrane. This work provides a greater understanding of epithelial diversity within the cnidarians, and will be a foundation for future studies on Nanomia bijuga, including functional assays and gene expression analyses.', u'A comparative transcriptomic study of mosquito olfactory tissues recently published in BMC \nGenomics (Hodges et al., 2014) reported several novel findings that have broad implications for \nthe field of insect olfaction.  In this brief commentary, we outline why the conclusions of Hodges \net al. are problematic under the current models of insect olfaction and then contrast their \nfindings with those of other RNAseq based studies of mosquito olfactory tissues.  We also \ngenerated a new RNAseq data set from the maxillary palp of Anopheles gambiae in an effort to \nreplicate the novel results of Hodges et al. but were unable to reproduce their results.  Instead, \nour new RNAseq data support the more straightforward explanation that the novel findings of \nHodges et al. were a consequence of contamination by antennal RNA.  In summary, we find \nstrong evidence to suggest that the conclusions of Hodges et al were spurious, and that at least \nsome of their RNAseq data sets were irrevocably compromised by cross-contamination \nbetween samples.', u"Aim: To assess the extent to which humans have reshaped Earth's biodiversity, by estimating natural ranges of all late Quaternary mammalian species, and to compare diversity patterns based on these with diversity patterns based on current distributions. \nLocation: Globally\t\nMethods: We estimated species, functional and phylogenetic diversity patterns based on natural ranges of all mammalian species (n=5747 species) as they could have been today in the complete absence of human influence through time. Following this we compared macroecological analyses of current and natural diversity patterns to assess if human-induced range changes bias for evolutionary and ecological analyses based on current diversity patterns. \nResults: We find that current diversity patterns have been drastically modified by humans, mostly due to global extinctions and regional to local extirpations. Current and natural diversities exhibit marked deviations virtually everywhere outside sub-Saharan Africa. These differences are strongest for terrestrial megafauna, but also important for all mammals combined. The human-induced changes led to biases in estimates of environmental diversity drivers, especially for terrestrial megafauna, but also for all mammals combined. \nMain conclusions: Our results show that fundamental diversity patterns have been reshaped by human-driven extinctions and extirpations, highlighting humans as a major force in the Earth system. We thereby emphasize that estimating natural distributions and diversities is important to improve our understanding of the evolutionary and ecologically drivers of diversity as well as for providing a benchmark for conservation.", u'In this study the experimental isotherm data of biosorption of Pb(II) onto algae was modeled using several models. These models are: Langmuir, Hill-Sips, Brouers-Sotolongo, Brouers-Gaspard, and Redlich-Peterson models. The coefficients of each model were determined by non-linear fitting using Mathematica9 program. The maximum Pb(II) removal rate  increased with the increase of temperature and reached the maximum value (98%) at the temperature of 40\xb0C. Even if the R2 error quantity is not the unique and always the best measure for nonlinear fitting, the Brouers-Sotolongo model gives in all cases the best fit and is definitely the most suitable one to satisfactorily describe bioisorption of Pb(II) on the algal biomass. In addition, this study shows that a complete set of data is necessary to have a good representation of the isotherm.', u'CRISPR/Cas technology allows rapid, site-specific genome modification in a wide variety of organisms. CRISPR components produced by integrated transgenes have been shown to mutagenise some genomic target sites in Drosophila melanogaster with high efficiency, but whether this is a general feature of this system remains unknown. Here, we systematically evaluate available CRISPR/Cas reagents and experimental designs in Drosophila. Our findings allow evidence-based choices of Cas9 sources and strategies for generating knock-in alleles. We perform gene editing at a large number of target sites using a highly active Cas9 line and a collection of transgenic gRNA strains. The vast majority of target sites can be mutated with remarkable efficiency using these tools. We contrast our method to recently developed autonomous gene drive technology for genome engineering (Gantz & Bier, 2015) and conclude that optimised CRISPR with independent transgenes is as efficient, more versatile and does not represent a biosafety risk.', u'Identification of protein complexes from proteomic experiments is crucial to understand not only their function but also the principles of cellular organization. Advances in experimental techniques have enabled the construction of large-scale protein-protein interaction networks, and computational methods have been developed to analyze high-throughput data. In most cases several parameters are introduced that have to be trained before application. But how do we select the parameter values when there are no training data available? How many data do we need to properly train a method. How is the performance of a method affected when we incorrectly select the parameter values? The above questions, although important to determine the applicability of a method, are most of the time overlooked. We highlight the importance of such an analysis by investigating how limited knowledge, in the form of incomplete training data, affects the performance of parametric protein-complex prediction algorithms. Furthermore, we develop a simple non-parametric method that does not rely on the existence of training data and we compare it with the parametric alternatives. Using datasets from yeast and fly we demonstrate that parametric methods trained with limited data provide sub-optimal predictions, while our non-parametric method performs better or is on par with the parametric alternatives. Overall, our analysis questions, at least for the specific problem, whether parametric methods provide significantly better results than non-parametric ones to justify the additional effort for applying them.', u'Crossvalidation is a method for estimating predictive performance and adjudicating between multiple models. On each of k folds of the process, k-1 of k independent subsets of the data (training set) are used to fit the parameters of each model and the left-out subset (test set) is used to estimate predictive performance. The method is statistically efficient, because training data are reused for testing and performance estimates combined across folds. The method requires no assumptions, provides nearly unbiased (slightly conservative) estimates of predictive performance, and is generally applicable because it amounts to a direct empirical test of each model.', u'The evolution of cooperation\u2014costly behavior that benefits others\u2014faces one clear obstacle. Namely, cooperators are always at a competitive disadvantage relative to defectors, individuals that reap the same social benefits, but evade the personal cost. One solution to this problem involves genetic hitchhiking, where the allele encoding cooperative behavior becomes linked to a beneficial mutation. While traditionally seen as a passive process driven purely by chance, here we explore a more active form of hitchhiking. Specifically, we model hitchhiking in the context of adaptation to a stressful environment by cooperators and defectors with spatially limited dispersal.  Under such conditions, clustered cooperators reach higher local densities, thereby experiencing more opportunities for mutations than defectors. Thus, the allele encoding cooperation has a greater probability of hitchhiking with alleles conferring stress adaptation. We label this probabilistic enhancement the "Hankshaw effect" after the character Sissy Hankshaw, whose anomalously large thumbs made her a singularly effective hitchhiker. Using an agent-based model, we demonstrate that there exists a broad set of conditions allowing the evolution of cooperation through the Hankshaw effect. We discuss the feasibility of our theoretical assumptions for natural systems, not only for the case of cooperation, but also for other costly social behaviors such as spite. The primary elements of our model, including genetic hitchhiking and population structure, have been discussed separately in previous models exploring the evolution of cooperation. However, the combination of these elements has not been appreciated as a solution to the problem of cooperation.', u'Following the increase in available sequenced genomes, tissue-specific transcriptomes are being determined for a rapidly growing number of highly diverse species. Traditionally, only the transcriptomes of related species with equivalent tissues have been compared. Such an analysis is much more challenging over larger evolutionary distances when complementary tissues cannot readily be defined. Here, we present a method for the cross-species mapping of tissue-specific and developmental gene expression patterns across a wide range of animals, including many non-model species. Our approach maps gene expression patterns between species without requiring the definition of homologous tissues. With the help of this mapping, gene expression patterns can be compared even across distantly related species. In our survey of 36 datasets across 27 species, we detected conserved expression programs on all taxonomic levels, both within animals and between the animals and their closest unicellular relatives, the choanoflagellates. We found that the rate of change in tissue expression patterns is a property of gene families. Our findings open new avenues of study for the comparison and transfer of knowledge between different species.', u'High quality Altai Neanderthal and Denisovan genomes are revealing which regions of archaic hominin DNA have persisted in the modern human genome. A number of these regions are associated with response to infection and immunity, with a suggestion that derived Neanderthal alleles found in modern Europeans and East Asians may be associated with autoimmunity. Independent sources of DNA-based evidence allow a re-evaluation of the nature and timing of the first epidemiologic transition. By combining skeletal, archaeological and genetic evidence we question whether the first epidemiologic transition in Eurasia was as tightly tied to the onset of the Holocene as has previously been assumed. There is clear evidence to suggest that this transition began before the appearance of agriculture and occurred over a timescale of tens of thousands of years. The transfer of pathogens between human species may also have played a role in the extinction of the Neanderthals.', u'To explore the interplay between new mutation, transmission, and gender bias in genetic disease requires formal quantitative modeling. Autism spectrum disorders offer an ideal case: they are genetic in origin, complex, and show a gender bias. The high reproductive costs of autism ensure that most strongly associated genetic mutations are short-lived, and indeed the disease exhibits both transmitted and de novo components. There is a large body of both epidemiologic and genomic data that greatly constrain the genetic mechanisms that may contribute to the disorder. We develop a computational framework that assumes classes of additive variants, each member of a class having equal effect. We restrict our initial exploration to single class models, each having three parameters. Only one model matches epidemiological data. It also independently matches the incidence of de novo mutation in simplex families, the gender bias in unaffected siblings in simplex populations, and rates of mutation in target genes. This model makes strong and as yet not fully tested predictions, namely that females are the primary carriers in cases of genetic transmission, and that the incidence of de novo mutation in target genes for families at high risk for autism are not especially elevated. In its simplicity, this model does not account for MZ twin concordance or the distorted gender bias of high functioning children with ASD, and does not accommodate all the known mechanisms contributing to ASD. We point to the next steps in applying the same computational framework to explore more complex models.', u'The global increase in ambient temperature constitutes a significant challenge to wild and cultivated plant species. Yet, a comprehensive knowledge on morphological responses and molecular mechanisms involved is scarce. Studies published to date have largely focused on a few, isolated temperature-relevant phenotypes such as flowering time or hypocotyl elongation. To systematically describe thermomorphogenesis, we profiled more than 30 phenotypic traits throughout an entire life cycle in ten distinct accessions of Arabidopsis thaliana grown in four different ambient temperatures. We observed a uniform acceleration of developmental timing in the vegetative growth phase with a low contribution of genotype effects on variation indicating a passive effect of temperature. In contrast, reproduction-associated phenotypes and several quantitative growth traits were sensitive to both, genotype and temperature effects or could be attributed primarily to either factor. Therefore, the results argue against a general mechanism of passive temperature effects by thermodynamic processes. Temperature responses of several phenotypes rather implicate differential function of specific signaling components that might be targets of adaptation to specific environmental conditions.', u'Evapotranspiration is a major component of the water cycle, yet only daytime transpiration is currently considered in Earth system and agricultural sciences. This contrasts with physiological studies where 25% or more of water losses have been reported to occur occurring overnight at leaf and plant scales. This gap probably arose from limitations in techniques to measure nocturnal water fluxes at ecosystem scales, a gap we bridge here by using lysimeters under controlled environmental conditions. The magnitude of the nocturnal water losses (12-23% of daytime water losses) in row-crop monocultures of bean (annual herb) and cotton (woody shrub) would be globally an order of magnitude higher than documented responses of global evapotranspiration to climate change (51-98 vs. 7-8 mm yr-1). Contrary to daytime responses and to conventional wisdom, nocturnal transpiration was not affected by previous radiation loads or carbon uptake, and showed a temporal pattern independent of vapour pressure deficit or temperature, because of endogenous controls on stomatal conductance via circadian regulation. Our results have important implications from large-scale ecosystem modelling to crop production: homeostatic water losses justify simple empirical predictive functions, and circadian controls show a fine-tune control that minimizes water loss while potentially increasing posterior carbon uptake.', u'Initiation of the adaptive immune response is dependent on the priming of naive T cells by APCs. Proteomic analysis of unactivated and activated human NK cell membrane-enriched fractions demonstrated that activated NK cells can efficiently stimulate T cells, since they upregulate MHC class II molecules and multiple ligands for TCR costimulatory molecules. Furthermore, by manipulating antigen administration, we show that NK cells possess multiple independent unique pathways for antigen uptake. These results highlight NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity and specific ligand recognition by cell surface-activating receptors on NK cells as unique mechanisms for antigen capturing and presentation. In addition, we analyzed the T cell-activating potential of human NK cells derived from different clinical conditions, such as inflamed tonsils and noninfected and CMV-infected uterine decidual samples, and from transporter-associated processing antigen 2\u2013deficient patients. This in vivo analysis revealed that proinflammatory, but not immune-suppressive, microenvironmental requirements can selectively dictate upregulation of T cell-activating molecules on NK cells. Taken together, these observations offer new and unexpected insights into the direct interactions between NK and T cells and suggest novel APC-like activating functions for human NK cells.', u'Using robust, integrated analysis of multiple genomic datasets, we show that genes depleted for non-synonymous de novo mutations form a subnetwork of 72 members under strong selective constraint. We further show this subnetwork is preferentially expressed in the early development of the human hippocampus and is enriched for genes mutated in neurological, but not other, Mendelian disorders. We thus conclude that carefully orchestrated developmental processes are under strong constraint in early brain development, and perturbations caused by mutation have adverse outcomes subject to strong purifying selection. Our findings demonstrate that selective forces can act on groups of genes involved in the same process, supporting the notion that adaptation can act coordinately on multiple genes. Our approach provides a statistically robust, interpretable way to identify the tissues and developmental times where groups of disease genes are active. Our findings highlight the importance of considering the interactions between genes when analyzing genome-wide sequence data.', u'Poised (bivalent or paused) chromatin comprises activating and repressing histone modifications at the same location (Voigt et al., 2013). This combination of epigenetic marks keeps genes expressed at low levels but poised for rapid activation (Margaritis and Holstege, 2008; Mikkelsen et al., 2007). Typically, DNA at poised promoters carries low levels of methylation in normal cells (Meissner et al., 2008; Roadmap Epigenomics Consortium et al., 2015), but frequently shows elevated methylation levels in cancer samples (Hinoue et al., 2012; Gal-Yam et al., 2008; Ohm et al., 2007; Rodriguez et al., 2008; Easwaran et al., 2012). Although higher levels of methylation are normally associated with transcriptional silencing, recently counter-intuitive positive correlations between methylation and expression levels have been reported for two cancer types (Hahn et al., 2014; Kretzmer et al.,). Here, we analyze one of the largest combined expression and methylation data-sets to date, comprising over 5,000 samples and demonstrate that the hypermethylation of poised chromatin in conjunction with up-regulation of the corresponding genes is a general phenomenon in cancer. This up-regulation affects developmental genes and transcription factors, including many genes implicated in cancer. From analysis of 7,000 methylation data sets, we built a universal classifier that can identify cancer samples solely from the hypermethylation status of originally poised chromatin. We reason that the alteration of the epigenetic status of poised chromatin is intimately linked to tumorigenesis.', u"The evolution of social traits remains one of the most fascinating and feisty topics in evolutionary biology even after half a century of theoretical research. W. D. Hamilton shaped much of the field initially with his 1964 papers that laid out the foundation for understanding the effect of genetic relatedness on the evolution of social behavior. Early theoretical investigations revealed two critical assumptions required for Hamilton's rule to hold in dynamical models: weak selection and additive genetic interactions. However, only recently have analytical approaches from population genetics and evolutionary game theory developed sufficiently so that social evolution can be studied under the joint action of selection, mutation, and genetic drift. We review how these approaches suggest two timescales for evolution under weak mutation: (i) a short-term timescale where evolution occurs between a finite set of alleles, and (ii) a long-term timescale where a continuum of alleles are possible and populations evolve continuously from one monomorphic trait to another. We show how Hamilton's rule emerges from the short-term analysis under additivity and how non-additive genetic interactions can be accounted for more generally. This short-term approach reproduces, synthesizes, and generalizes many previous results including the one-third law from evolutionary game theory and risk dominance from economic game theory. Using the long-term approach, we illustrate how trait evolution can be described with a diffusion equation that is a stochastic analogue of the canonical equation of adaptive dynamics. Peaks in the stationary distribution of the diffusion capture classic notions of convergence stability from evolutionary game theory and generally depend on the additive genetic interactions inherent in Hamilton's rule. Surprisingly, the peaks of the long-term stationary distribution can predict the effects of simple kinds of non-additive interactions. Additionally, the peaks capture both weak and strong effects of social payoffs in a manner difficult to replicate with the short-term approach. Together, the results from the short and long-term approaches suggest both how Hamilton's insight may be robust in unexpected ways and how current analytical approaches can expand our understanding of social evolution far beyond Hamilton's original work.", u'Forecasts of ecological dynamics in changing environments are increasingly important, and are available for a plethora of variables, such as species abundance and distribution, community structure, and ecosystem processes. There is, however, a general absence of knowledge about how far into the future, or other dimensions (space, temperature, phylogenetic distance), useful ecological forecasts can be made, and about how features of ecological systems relate to these distances. The ecological forecast horizon is the dimensional distance for which useful forecasts can be made. Five case studies illustrate the influence of various sources of uncertainty (e.g. parameter uncertainty, environmental , and demographic stochasticity, evolution), level of ecological organisation (e.g. population or community), organismal properties (e.g. body size or number of trophic links) on temporal, spatial, and phylogenetic forecast horizons. Insights from these case studies demonstrate that the ecological forecast horizon is a flexible and powerful tool for researching and communicating ecological predictability. It also has potential for motivating and guiding agenda setting for ecological forecasting research and development.', u'Both spatial and directional information are necessary for navigation. Rodent hippocampal neurons show spatial selectivity in all environments, but directional tuning only on linear paths. The sensory mechanisms underlying directionality are unknown, though vestibular and visual cues are thought to be crucial. However, hippocampal neurons are thought to show no angular modulation during two-dimensional random foraging despite the presence of vestibular and visual cues. Additionally, specific aspects of visual cues have not been directly linked to hippocampal responses in rodents. To resolve these issues we manipulated vestibular and visual cues in a series of experiments. We first measured hippocampal activity during random foraging in real world (RW) where we found that neurons\u2019 firing exhibited significant modulation by head-direction. In fact, the fraction of modulated neurons was comparable to that in the head-direction system. These findings are contrary to commonly held beliefs about hippocampal directionality. To isolate the contribution of visual cues we measured neural responses in a visually similar virtual reality (VR) where the range of vestibular inputs is minimized. Significant directional modulation was not only found in VR, but it was comparable to that in RW. Several additional experiments revealed that changes in the angular information contained in the visual cues induced corresponding changes in hippocampal head-directional modulation. Remarkably, for head-directionally modulated neurons, the ensemble activity was biased towards the sole visual cue. These results demonstrate that robust vestibular cues are not required for hippocampal directional selectivity, while visual cues are not only sufficient but also play a causal role in driving hippocampal responses.', u'Describing long-term evolutionary trajectories of alien species is a fundamental, although rarely possible, step to understand the pivotal drivers of successful invasions. Here, we tackled this task by investigating the genetic structure of the crested porcupine (Hystrix cristata), whose invasion of Italy started about 1500 years ago. Using genome-wide RAD markers, we explored the demographic processes that shaped, and are shaping, the gene pool of the expanding invasive populations and compared their genetic diversity with that of native and invasive populations of both African porcupine species (crested and Cape, H. africaeaustralis). Through coalescence-based demographic reconstructions, we demonstrated that bottleneck at introduction was mild and did not severely affect the reservoir of genetic diversity. Our data also highlighted a marked geographic structure in the invasive populations, indicating that they are likely the results of multiple introduction events. Nevertheless, both the invasive populations and its source show a lower level of diversity relative to other native populations from Sub-Saharan and South Africa, suggesting that demographic history before introduction may have played a role in forging a successful invader. Finally, we showed that the current spatial expansion at the northern boundary of the range is following a leading-edge model characterized by a general reduction of genetic diversity towards the edge of the expanding range. Consistently, random fixation of alleles through gene-surfing seems a more likely explanation than adaptive divergence for the distribution of the few outlier loci with highly divergent frequencies between core and newly colonized areas.', u'Using targeted genetical genomics, a QTL affecting the initial post-mortem pH value of chicken breast muscle (Pectoralis major) on chromosome 1 (GGA1) was recently fine-mapped. Thirteen genes were present in the QTL region of about 1 Mb. \nIn this study, ten birds that were inferred to be homozygous for either the high (QQ) or low (qq) QTL allele were selected for re-sequencing. After enrichment for 1 Mb around the QTL region, > 200 x coverage for the QTL region in each of the ten birds was obtained. We used custom tools to identify putative causal mutations in the mapped QTL region from next generation sequence data. Four non-synonymous SNPs differentiating the two QTL genotype groups were identified within four local genes (PRDX4, EIF2S3, PCYT1B and E1BTD2). These were defined to be most likely candidate SNPs to explain the QTL effect. Moreover, 29 consensus SNPs were detected within gene-related regions (UTR regions and splicing sites) for the QQ birds and 26 for the qq birds. These could also play a role explaining the observed QTL effect. \nThe results provide an important step for prioritizing among a large amount of candidate mutations and significantly contribute to the understanding of the genetic mechanisms affecting the initial post-mortem pH value of chicken muscle.', u'Competition between microbes is widespread in nature, especially among those that are closely related. To combat competitors, bacteria have evolved numerous protein-based systems (bacteriocins) that kill strains closely related to the producer. In characterizing the bacteriocin complement and killing spectra for the model strain P. syringae B728a, we discovered its activity was not linked to any predicted bacteriocin, but is derived from a prophage. Instead of encoding an active prophage, this region encodes a bacteriophage-derived bacteriocin, termed an R-type syringacin. The R-type syringacin is striking in its convergence with the well-studied R-type pyocin of P. aeruginosa in both chromosomal synteny and molecular function. Genomic alignment, amino acid percent sequence identity, and phylogenetic inference all support a scenario where the R-type syringacin has been co-opted independently of the R-type pyocin. Moreover, the presence of this region is conserved among several other Pseudomonas species, and thus is likely important for intermicrobial interactions throughout this important genus.', u'b\xedogo is a framework designed to ease development and maintenance of computationally intensive bioinformatics applications. The library is written in the Go programming language, a garbage-collected, strictly typed compiled language with built in support for concurrent processing, and performance comparable to C and Java. It provides a variety of data types and utility functions to facilitate manipulation and analysis of large scale genomic and other biological data. b\xedogo uses a concise and expressive syntax, lowering the barriers to entry for researchers needing to process large data sets with custom analyses while retaining computational safety and ease of code review.\nWe believe b\xedogo provides an excellent environment for training and research in computational biology because of its combination of strict typing, simple and expressive syntax, and high performance.', u'How cognition emerges from neural dynamics? The dominant hypothesis states that interactions among distributed brain regions through phase synchronization give basis for cognitive processing. Such phase-synchronized networks are transient and dynamic, established on the timescale of milliseconds in order to perform specific cognitive operations. But unlike resting-state networks, the complex organization of transient cognitive networks is typically not characterized within the graph theory framework. Thus, it is not known whether cognitive processing merely changes strength of functional connections or, conversely, requires qualitatively new topological arrangements of functional networks. To address this question, we recorded high-density EEG when subjects performed a visual discrimination task and conducted and event-related network analysis (ERNA) where source-space weighted functional networks were characterized with graph measures. We revealed rapid, transient, and frequency-specific reorganization of the network?s topology during cognition. Specifically, cognitive networks were characterized by strong clustering, low modularity, and strong interactions between hub-nodes. Our findings suggest that dense and clustered connectivity between the hub nodes belonging to different modules is the ?network fingerprint? of cognition. Such reorganization patterns might facilitate global integration of information and provide a substrate for a ?global workspace? necessary for cognition and consciousness to occur. Thus, characterizing topology of the event-related networks opens new vistas to interpret cognitive dynamics in the broader conceptual framework of graph theory.', u'Learning how complex traits like eyes originate is fundamental for\nunderstanding evolution. Here, we first sketch historical perspectives on trait origins and\nargue that new technologies offer key new insights. Next, we articulate four open\nquestions about trait origins. To address them, we define a research program to break\ncomplex traits into components and study the individual evolutionary histories of those\nparts. By doing so, we can learn when the parts came together and perhaps understand\nwhy they stayed together. We apply the approach to five structural innovations critical\nfor complex eyes, reviewing the history of the parts of each of those innovations.\nPhotoreceptors evolved within animals by bricolage, recombining genes that originated\nfar earlier. Multiple genes used in eyes today had ancestral roles in stress responses.\nWe hypothesize that photo-stress could have increased the chance those genes were\nexpressed together in places on animals where light was abundant.', u'Motivation: Mapping high throughput sequencing data to a reference\ngenome is an essential step for most analysis pipelines aiming at\nthe computational analysis of genome and transcriptome sequencing\ndata. Breaking ties between equally well mapping locations poses a\nsevere problem not only during the alignment phase, but also has\nsignificant impact on the results of downstream analyses. We present\nthe multimapper resolution (MMR) tool that infers optimal mapping\nlocations from the coverage density of other mapped reads.\n\nResults: Filtering alignments with MMR can significantly improve\nthe performance of downstream analyses like transcript quantitation\nand differential testing. We illustrate that the accuracy (Spearman\ncorrelation) of transcript quantification increases by 17% when using\nreads of length 51. In addition, MMR decreases the alignment file\nsizes by more than 50% and this leads to a reduced running time\nof the quantification tool. Our efficient implementation of the MMR\nalgorithm is easily applicable as a post-processing step to existing\nalignment files in BAM format. Its complexity scales linearly with the\nnumber of alignments and requires no further inputs.\n\nSupplementary Material: Source code and documentation are\navailable for download at http://github.com/ratschlab/mmr.\nSupplementary text and figures, comprehensive testing results and\nfurther information can be found at http://bioweb.me/mmr.', u'Background: Nucleic acids quantification by amplification is currently done primarily by real\xadtime amplification for relative quantification, or by statistical inference from replicated endpoint assays for absolute quantification. The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) has been the dominant amplification technology, although alternative isothermal technologies have been described. Theoretical analysis of amplification kinetics and of amplification data interpretation have almost exclusively considered the PCR.\nResults: Real-time measurements of isothermal amplification reactions can be made continuously, in contrast to the discrete per-cycle measurements of real-time PCR. Isothermal ramified rolling circle amplification (RAM)reactions were measured at frequent intervals, and amplification data subsets were fitted to an exponential amplification model. Signal-change-over-time slopes and time-zero signal intercepts were derived from the chosen subset data. Slope measurements were sufficient to determine a reaction rate (the isothermal equivalent of PCR efficiency) for each reaction. Analysis of slope and intercept together suggest that amplification reactions that were initiated from a single target molecule can be distinguished from reactions that were initiated from greater than one target molecule.\nConclusions: The constant reaction environment of isothermal nucleic acid amplification allows continuous monitoring of reaction rate. Functional regions of interest in real-time data can be determined directly from the\ndata. Accurate per-reaction efficiency can be readily measured. Improved estimation of low target copy number should improve quantification efficiency.', u'We developed a large-scale dynamical model of the macaque neocortex based on recent quantitative connectivity data. A hierarchy of timescales naturally emerges from this system: sensory areas show brief, transient responses to input (appropriate for sensory processing), whereas association areas integrate inputs over time and exhibit persistent activity (suitable for decision-making and working memory). The model displays multiple temporal hierarchies, as evidenced by contrasting responses to visual and somatosensory stimulation. Moreover, slower prefrontal and temporal areas have a disproportionate impact on global brain dynamics. These findings establish for the first time a circuit mechanism for "temporal receptive windows" that are progressively enlarged along the cortical hierarchy, extend the concept of working memory from local to large circuits, and suggest a re-interpretation of functional connectivity measures.', u'The widely used insect repellent DEET has a limited spatial zone of protection, requiring it to be applied over all exposed areas of skin. Identification of insect DEET-sensing neurons expressing a highly conserved Ionotropic receptor, Ir40a, provides an opportunity to identify new structural classes of volatile agonists as potential spatial repellents. By imaging the activity of the Ir40a+ neurons in D. melanogaster expressing the calcium sensitive GCaMP3 protein, we identify a strong agonist, 4-methylpiperidine, with a much higher vapor pressure than DEET. Behavioral testing reveals that 4-methylpiperidine repels Aedes aegypti, which is consistent with our model that Ir40a marks a conserved innate aversive pathway. Using a spatial repellency assay we demonstrate that 4-methylpiperidine applied to one part of the hand repels mosquitoes on another part effectively, whereas DEET cannot do so. Using orco mutant A. aegypti we demonstrate that avoidance to 4-methypiperidine is not dependent on Or family function. Additional testing of orco mutant mosquitoes demonstrates that they are also effectively repelled by DEET, without coming in contact with it, in heat attraction assays. Together, these results support our initial observations that the conserved Ir pathway plays a key role in olfactory repellency and can be used to identify new classes of repellents.', u'Even in the best studied Mammalian genomes, less than 5% of the total genome length is annotated as exonic. However, deep sequencing analysis in humans has shown that around 40% of the genome may be covered by poly-adenylated non-coding transcripts occurring at low levels. Their functional significance is unclear, and there has been a dispute whether they should be considered as noise of the transcriptional machinery. We propose that if such transcripts show some evolutionary stability they will serve as substrates for de novo gene evolution, i.e. gene emergence out of non-coding DNA. Here, we characterize the phylogenetic turnover of low-level poly-adenylated transcripts in a comprehensive sampling of populations, sub-species and species of the genus Mus, spanning a phylogenetic distance of about 10 Myr. We find evidence for more evolutionary stable gains of transcription than losses among closely related taxa, balanced by a loss of older transcripts across\n the whole phylogeny. We show that adding taxa increases the genomic transcript coverage and that no major transcript-free islands exist over time. This suggests that the entire genome can be transcribed into poly-adenylated RNA when viewed at an evolutionary time scale. Thus, any part of the "non-coding" genome can become subject to evolutionary functionalization via de novo gene evolution.', u'Enormous databases of short-read RNA-seq sequencing experiments such as the NIH Sequence Read Archive (SRA)  are now available. However, these collections remain difficult to use due to the inability to search for a particular expressed sequence. A natural question is which of these experiments contain sequences that indicate the expression of a particular sequence such as a gene isoform, lncRNA, or uORF. However, at present this is a computationally demanding question at the scale of these databases.\n\nWe introduce an indexing scheme, the Sequence Bloom Tree (SBT), to support sequence-based querying of terabase-scale collections of thousands of short-read sequencing experiments. We apply SBT to the problem of finding conditions under which query transcripts are expressed. Our experiments are conducted on a set of 2652 publicly available RNA-seq experiments contained in the NIH for the breast, blood, and brain tissues, comprising 5 terabytes of sequence. SBTs of this size can be queried for a 1000 nt sequence in 19 minutes using less than 300 MB of RAM, over 100 times faster than standard usage of SRA-BLAST and 119 times faster than STAR. SBTs allow for fast identification of experiments with expressed novel isoforms, even if these isoforms were unknown at the time the SBT was built.  We also provide some theoretical guidance about appropriate parameter selection in SBT and propose a sampling-based scheme for potentially scaling SBT to even larger collections of files. While SBT  can handle any set of reads, we demonstrate the effectiveness of SBT by searching a large collection of blood, brain, and breast RNA-seq files for all 214,293 known human transcripts to identify tissue-specific transcripts.  \n\nThe implementation used in the experiments below is in C++ and is available as open source at http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~ckingsf/software/bloomtree.', u'In finite populations, an allele disappears or reaches fixation due to two main forces, selection and drift. Selection is generally thought to accelerate the process: a selected mutation will reach fixation faster than a neutral\none, and a disadvantageous one will quickly disappear from the population. We show that even in simple diploid\npopulations, this is often not true. Dominance and recessivity unexpectedly slow down the evolutionary process\nfor weakly selected alleles. In particular, slightly advantageous dominant and mildly deleterious recessive mu-\ntations reach fixation more slowly than neutral ones. This phenomenon determines genetic signatures opposite\nto those expected under strong selection, such as increased instead of decreased genetic diversity around the\nselected site. Furthermore, we characterize a new phenomenon: mildly deleterious recessive alleles, thought\nto represent the vast majority of newly arising mutations, survive in a population longer than neutral ones,\nbefore getting lost. Hence, natural selection is less effective than previously thought in getting rid rapidly of\nslightly negative mutations, contributing their observed persistence in present populations. Consequently, low\nfrequency slightly deleterious mutations are on average older than neutral ones.', u'We present a, mathematical model driven, framework to implement virtual or imaginary clinical trials (phase i trials) that can be used to bridge the gap between preclinical studies and the clinic. The trial implementation process includes the development of an experimentally validated mathematical model, generation of a cohort of heterogeneous virtual patients, an assessment of stratification factors, and optimization of treatment strategy. We show the detailed process through application to melanoma treatment, using a combination therapy of chemotherapy and an AKT inhibitor, which was recently tested in a phase 1 clinical trial. We developed a mathematical model, composed of ordinary differential equations, based on experimental data showing that such therapies differentially induce autophagy in melanoma cells. Model parameters were estimated using an optimization algorithm that minimizes differences between predicted cell populations and experimentally measured cell numbers. The calibrated model was validated by comparing predicted cell populations with experimentally measured melanoma cell populations in twelve different treatment scheduling conditions. By using this validated model as the foundation for a genetic algorithm, we generated a cohort of virtual patients that mimics the heterogeneous combination therapy responses observed in a companion clinical trial. Sensitivity analysis of this cohort defined parameters that discriminated virtual patients having more favorable versus less favorable outcomes. Finally, the model predicts optimal therapeutic approaches across all virtual patients.', u'We present an optical concept to visualize nerves during surgical interventions. The concept relies on the anisotropic optical properties of the nerves which allows for specific switching of the optical reflection by the nervous-tissue. Using a low magnification polarized imaging system we are able to visualize the on and off switching of the optical reflection of the nervous-tissue, enabling a non-invasive nerve specific real-time nerve visualization during surgery.', u'Substrate Induced Respiration (SIR) is a standard method to study microbial biomass in soil. It is observed that the soil microbial CO 2 respiration goes up with the glucose concentration till a certain concentration, and afterwards decreases and stabilizes. There are two possible mechanisms via which this can happen: increased osmotic pressure can kill off a group of microbial population or the Crabtree effect takes over the population. An experiment was designed using the SIR; to find the reason for the same and prove or disprove one of these\nhypothesises.', u'Twelve replicate populations of Escherichia coli have been evolving in the laboratory for more than 25 years and 60,000 generations. We analyzed bacteria from whole-population samples frozen every 500 generations through 20,000 generations for one well-studied population, called Ara???1. By tracking 42 known mutations in these samples, we reconstructed the history of this population???s genotypic evolution over this period. The evolutionary dynamics of Ara???1 show strong evidence of selective sweeps as well as clonal interference between competing lineages bearing different beneficial mutations. In some cases, sets of several mutations approached fixation simultaneously, often conveying no information about their order of origination; we present several possible explanations for the existence of these mutational cohorts. Against a backdrop of rapid selective sweeps both earlier and later, we found that two clades coexisted for over 6000 generations before one drove the other extinct. In that time, at least nine mutations arose in the clade that prevailed. We found evidence that the clades evolved a frequency-dependent interaction, which prevented the competitive exclusion of either clade, but which eventually collapsed as beneficial mutations accumulated in the clade that prevailed. Clonal interference and frequency dependence can occur even in the simplest microbial populations. Furthermore, frequency dependence may generate dynamics that extend the period of coexistence that would otherwise be sustained by clonal interference alone.', u'Background\nDeep mutational scanning is a technique to estimate the impacts of mutations on a gene by using deep sequencing to count mutations in a library of variants before and after imposing a functional selection. The impacts of mutations must be inferred from changes in their counts after selection.\n\nResults\nI describe a software package, dms_tools, to infer the impacts of mutations from deep mutational scanning data using a likelihood-based treatment of the mutation counts. I show that dms_tools yields more accurate inferences on simulated data than simply calculating ratios of counts pre- and post-selection. Using dms_tools, one can infer the preference of each site for each amino acid given a single selection pressure, or assess the extent to which these preferences change under different selection pressures. The preferences and their changes can be intuitively visualized with sequence-logo-style plots created using an extension to weblogo.\n\nConclusions\ndms_tools implements a statistically principled approach for the analysis and subsequent visualization of deep mutational scanning data.', u'Common genetic variants buffered by Hsp90 are candidates for human diseases of signaling such as cancer.   Like cancer, morphological abnormalities buffered by Hsp90 are discrete threshold traits with a continuous underlying basis of liability determining their probability of occurrence. QTL and deletion maps for one of the most frequent Hsp90-dependent abnormalities in Drosophila, deformed eye (dfe), were replicated across three genetically related artificial selection lines using strategies dependent on proximity to the dfe threshold and the direction of genetic and environmental effects. Up to 17 dfe loci (QTL) linked by 7 interactions were detected based on the ability of small recombinant regions of an unaffected and completely homozygous control genotype to dominantly suppress or enhance dfe penetrance at its threshold in groups of isogenic recombinant flies, and over 20 deletions increased dfe penetrance from a low expected value in one or more line, identifying a complex network of genes responsible for the dfe phenotype. Replicated comparisons of these whole-genome mapping approaches identified several QTL regions narrowly defined by deletions and 4 candidate genes, with additional uncorrelated QTL and deletions highlighting differences between the approaches and the need for caution in attributing the effect of deletions directly to QTL genes.', u'Meiotic recombination rate varies across the genome within and between individuals, populations, and species in virtually all taxa studied. In almost every species, this variation takes the form of discrete recombination hotspots, determined in Metazoans by a protein called PRDM9. Hotspots and their determinants have a profound effect on the genomic landscape, and share certain features that extend across the tree of life. Drosophila, in contrast, are anomalous in their absence of hotspots, PRDM9, and other species-specific differences in the determination of recombination. To better understand the evolution of meiosis and general patterns of recombination across diverse taxa, we present what may be the most comprehensive portrait of recombination to date, combining contemporary recombination estimates from each of two sister species along with historic estimates of recombination using linkage-disequilibrium-based approaches derived from sequence data from both species.  Using Drosophila pseudoobscura and Drosophila miranda as a model system, we compare recombination rate between species at multiple scales, and we replicate the pattern seen in human-chimpanzee that recombination rate is conserved at broad scales and more divergent at finer scales. We also find evidence of a species-wide recombination modifier, resulting in both a present and historic genome wide elevation of recombination rates in D. miranda, and identify broad scale effects on recombination from the presence of an inter-species inversion. Finally, we reveal an unprecedented view of the distribution of recombination in D. pseudoobscura, illustrating patterns of linked selection and where recombination is taking place. Overall, by combining these estimation approaches, we highlight key similarities and differences in recombination between Drosophila and other organisms.', u'Porcine carcass that is approximately 800 mm long may be expected to have one additional vertebra. Therefore, the number of vertebrae in pigs is an economically important trait. To examine the genetic basis of this trait, we genotyped 593 F2 Large White \xd7 Minzhu pigs using the Porcine SNP60K BeadChip. A genome-wide association study identified 39 significant single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) on the chromosomes SSC1 and SSC7. An 8.82-Mb region that contained all 21 significant SNPs on SSC1 harbored the gene NR6A1, previously reported to influence the number of vertebrae in pigs. The remaining 18 significant SNPs on SSC7 were concentrated in a 4.56-Mb region, which was within the quantitative trait loci interval for number of vertebrae. A haplotype sharing analysis refined the locus to a segment of ~637 Kb. The most significant SNP, SIRI0001067, was contained in this refined region on SSC7 and located in one of the introns of TGFB3. As TGFB3 influences the development of vertebrae in mammalian embryos, the gene may be another strong candidate for the number of vertebrae in pigs.', u'The numerical models of populations behaviour, simulated under chang-\ning condition of populations interaction (the hungry or full-fed populations,\nthe existence of persons in the personal areas or in the common territory),\ndemonstrate the increase, reduction or damping of oscillations amplitude,\nthat corresponds qualitatively to known experimental data, obtained for real\npopulation of bacteria.', u'A major challenge in evolutionary biology is to understand the origins of novel structures. The wing patterns of butterflies and moths are derived phenotypes unique to the Lepidoptera. Here we identify a gene that we name poikilomousa (poik), which regulates colour pattern switches in the mimetic Heliconius butterflies. Strong associations between phenotypic variation and DNA sequence variation are seen in three different Heliconius species, in addition to associations between gene expression and colour pattern. Colour pattern variants are also associated with differences in splicing of poik transcripts. poik is a member of the conserved fizzy family of cell cycle regulators. It belongs to a faster evolving subfamily, the closest functionally characterised orthologue being the cortex gene in Drosophila, a female germ-line specific protein involved in meiosis. poik appears to have adopted a novel function in the Lepidoptera and become a major target for natural selection acting on colour and pattern variation in this group.', u'Organisms have different circuitries that allow converting signal molecule levels to changes in gene expression. An important challenge in synthetic biology involves the de novo design of RNA modules enabling dynamic signal processing in live cells. This requires a scalable methodology for sensing, transmission, and actuation, which could be assembled into larger signaling networks. Here, we present a biochemical strategy to design RNA-mediated signal transduction cascades able to sense small molecules and small RNAs. We design switchable functional RNA domains by using strand-displacement techniques. We experimentally characterize the molecular mechanism underlying our synthetic RNA signaling cascades, show the ability to regulate gene expression with transduced RNA signals, and describe the signal processing response of our systems to periodic forcing in single live cells. The engineered systems integrate RNA-RNA interaction with available ribozyme and aptamer elements, providing new ways to engineer arbitrary complex gene circuits.', u'Background: Hox gene collinearity relates the sequential location of Hox genes in the 3\xb4 to 5\xb4 direction on the chromosome with the linear arrangement of the body elements along the anterior-posterior (A/P) axis of bilaterian embryos. This spatial Hox gene collinearity has been almost universally respected in diverse organisms like worms, insects or vertebrates. It is therefore surprising that the above well established collinearity rule is violated in the case of Echinoderms. No explanation of this violation is apparent. Here a hypothesis is put forward which  provides a cue to understand the abnormal serial gene location in the sea urchin disorganized Hox cluster.    \n     Results: Bilateral symmetry along the A/P embryo axis is established at the very early stages of ontogeny of the sea urchin. For the subsequent developmental stages, rotational symmetry emerges in the vestibula larva. In analogy to the linear A/P case, the circular topology of modules might be a reflection of the architectural restructuring of the Hox loci where the 3\xb4 and 5\xb4 ends of the Hox cluster approach each other so that a closed contour of the chromatin fiber is formed. At a later stage, the break and opening of the cluster contour at the level of Hox4 combined with the rotational symmetry leads to the observed Hox gene sequence that violates the standard 3\xb4 to 5\xb4 collinearity. \n     Conclusion: The unusual gene series manifests the congruence of Hox gene sequence in the cluster with the circular arrangement of the sea urchin primary podia. Accordingly, the Hox sequence after the break at Hox4 is not a violation but an extension of Hox gene collinearity to animals with rotational symmetry.', u'MicroRNA (miRNA) sponges have been shown to function as competing endogenous RNAs (ceRNAs) to regulate the expression of other miRNA targets in the network by sequestering available miRNAs. As the first systematic investigation of the genome-wide genetic effect on ceRNA regulation, we applied multivariate response regression and identified widespread genetic variations that are associated with ceRNA competition using 462 Geuvadis RNA-seq data in multiple human populations. We showed that SNPs in gene 3\u2019UTRs at the miRNA seed binding regions can simultaneously regulate gene expression changes in both cis and trans by the ceRNA mechanism. We termed these loci as endogenous miRNA sponge expression quantitative trait loci or \u201cemsQTLs\u201d, and found that a large number of them were unexplored in conventional eQTL mapping. We identified many emsQTLs are undergoing recent positive selection in different human populations. Using GWAS results, we found that emsQTLs are significantly enriched in traits/diseases associated loci. Functional prediction and prioritization extend our understanding on causality of emsQTL allele in disease pathways. We illustrated that emsQTL can synchronously regulate the expression of tumor suppressor and oncogene through ceRNA competition in angiogenesis. Together these results provide a distinct catalog and characterization of functional noncoding regulatory variants that control ceRNA crosstalk.', u'This article describes a Bayesian method for inferring both species delimitations and species trees under the multispecies coalescent model using DNA sequences from multiple loci. The focus here is on species delimitation with no a priori assignment of individuals to species, and no guide tree. The method uses a new model for the population sizes along the branches of the species tree, and three new operators for sampling from the posterior using the Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) algorithm. The correctness of the moves is demonstrated both by proofs and by tests of the implementation. Current practice, using a pipeline approach to species delimitation under the multispecies coalescent, has been shown to have major problems on simulated data (Olave et al, 2014). The same simulated data set is used to demonstrate the accuracy and efficiency of the present method. The method is implemented in a package called STACEY for BEAST2.', u'Strong ecological selection on a genetic locus can maintain allele frequency differences between populations in different environments, even in the face of hybridization. When alleles at divergent loci come into tight linkage disequilibria, selection acts on them as a unit and can significantly reduce gene flow. For populations interbreeding across a hybrid zone, linkage disequilibria between loci can force clines to share the same slopes and centers. However, strong ecological selection can push clines away from the others, reducing linkage disequilibria and weakening the barrier to gene flow. We looked for this \u2018cline uncoupling\u2019 effect in a hybrid zone between stream resident and anadromous sticklebacks at two genes known to be under divergent natural selection (Eda and ATP1a1) and five morphological traits that repeatedly evolve in freshwater stickleback. We used 10 anonymous SNPs to characterize the shape of the zone. We found that the clines at Eda, ATP1a1, and four morphological traits were concordant and coincident, suggesting that direct selection on each is outweighed by the indirect selection generated by linkage disequilibria. Interestingly, the cline for pectoral fin length was much steeper and displaced 200m downstream, and two anonymous SNPs also had steep clines.', u'Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have become increasingly popular these days and one of the key questions is how much heritability could be explained by all variants in GWAS. We have previously proposed an approach to answer this question, based on recovering the "true" z-statistics from a set of observed z-statistics. Only summary statistics are required. However, methods for standard error (SE) estimation are not available yet, thereby limiting the interpretation of the results. In this study we developed resampling-based approaches to estimate the SE and the methods are implemented in an R package. We found that delete-d-jackknife and parametric bootstrap approaches provide good estimates of the SE. Methods to compute the sum of heritability explained and the corresponding SE are implemented in the R package SumVg, available at https://sites.google.com/site/honcheongso/software/var-totalvg', u'Significant advances in sequencing technologies and genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have revealed substantial insight into the genetic architecture of human phenotypes.  In recent years, the application of this approach in bacteria has begun to reveal the genetic basis of bacterial host preference, antibiotic resistance, and virulence.  Here, we consider relevant differences between bacterial and human genome dynamics, apply GWAS to a global sample of Mycobacterium tuberculosis genomes to highlight the impacts of linkage disequilibrium, population stratification, and natural selection, and finally compare the traditional GWAS against phyC, a contrasting method of mapping genotype to phenotype based upon evolutionary convergence. We discuss strengths and weaknesses of both methods, and make suggestions for factors to be considered in future bacterial GWAS.', u'Background:\nNext-generation sequencing (NGS) offers unprecedented opportunities to expand clinical genomics. It also presents challenges with respect to integration with data from other sequencing methods and historical data. Provision of consistent, clinically applicable variant annotation of NGS data has proved difficult, particularly of indels, an important variant class in clinical genomics. Annotation in relation to a reference genome sequence, the DNA strand of coding transcripts and potential alternative variant representations has not been well addressed. Here we present tools that address these challenges to provide rapid, standardized, clinically appropriate annotation of NGS data in line with existing clinical standards. \n\nMethods:\nWe developed a clinical sequencing nomenclature (CSN), a fixed variant annotation consistent with the principles of the Human Genome Variation Society (HGVS) guidelines, optimized for automated variant annotation of NGS data. To deliver high-throughput CSN annotation we created CAVA (Clinical Annotation of VAriants), a fast, lightweight tool designed for easy incorporation into NGS pipelines. CAVA allows transcript specification, appropriately accommodates the strand of a gene transcript and flags variants with alternative annotations to facilitate clinical interpretation and comparison with other datasets. We evaluated CAVA in exome data and a clinical BRCA1/BRCA2 gene testing pipeline. \n\nResults:\nCAVA generated CSN calls for 10,313,034 variants in the ExAC database in 13.44 hours, and annotated the ICR1000 exome series in 6.5 hours. Evaluation of 731 different indels from a single individual revealed 92% had alternative representations in left aligned and right aligned data. Annotation of left aligned data, as performed by many annotation tools, would thus give clinically discrepant annotation for the 339 (46%) indels in genes transcribed from the forward DNA strand. By contrast, CAVA provides the correct clinical annotation for all indels. CAVA also flagged the 370 indels with alternative representations of a different functional class, which may profoundly influence clinical interpretation. CAVA annotation of 50 BRCA1/BRCA2 gene mutations from a clinical pipeline gave 100% concordance with Sanger data; only 8/25 BRCA2 mutations were correctly clinically annotated by other tools.    \n\nConclusions:\nCAVA is a freely available tool that provides rapid, robust, high-throughput clinical annotation of NGS data, using a standardized Clinical Sequencing Nomenclature.', u'Numerous brain regions have been shown to have neural correlates of gradually accumulating evidence for decision-making, but the causal roles of these regions in decisions driven by accumulation of evi- dence have yet to be determined. Here, in rats performing an auditory evidence accumulation task, we inactivated the frontal orienting fields (FOF) and posterior parietal cortex (PPC), two rat cortical regions that have neural correlates of accumulating evidence and that have been proposed as central to decision-making. We used a detailed model of the decision process to analyze the effect of inactivations. Inactivation of the FOF induced substantial performance impairments that were quantitatively best de- scribed as an impairment in the output pathway of an evidence accumulator with a long integration time constant (>240ms). In contrast, we found a minimal role for PPC in decisions guided by accumulating auditory evidence, even while finding a strong role for PPC in internally-guided decisions.', u'Background. Next Generation Sequencing and other high-throughput technologies have brought a revolution to the bioinformatics landscape, by offering sheer amounts of data about previously unaccessible domains in a cheap and scalable way. However, fast, reproducible, and cost-effective data analysis at such scale remains elusive. A key need for achieving it is being able to access and query the vast amount of publicly available data, specially so in the case of knowledge-intensive, semantically rich data: incredibly valuable information about proteins and their functions, genes, pathways, or all sort of biological knowledge encoded in ontologies remains scattered, semantically and physically fragmented.\n\nMethods and Results. Guided by this, we have designed and developed Bio4j. It aims to offer a platform for the integration of semantically rich biological data using typed graph models. We have modeled and integrated most publicly available data linked with proteins into a set of interdependent graphs. Data querying is possible through a data model aware Domain Specific Language implemented in Java, letting the user write typed graph traversals over the integrated data. A ready to use cloud-based data distribution, based on the Titan graph database engine is provided; generic data import code can also be used for in-house deployment.\n\nConclusion. Bio4j represents a unique resource for the current Bioinformatician, providing at once a solution for several key problems: data integration; expressive, high performance data access; and a cost-effective scalable cloud deployment model.', u'Most cancers in humans are large, measuring centimeters in diameter, composed of many billions of cells. An equivalent mass of normal cells would be highly heterogeneous as a result of the mutations that occur during each cell division. What is remarkable about cancers is their homogeneity - virtually every neoplastic cell within a large cancer contains the same core set of genetic alterations, with heterogeneity confined to mutations that have emerged after the last clonal expansions. How such clones expand within the spatially-constrained three dimensional architecture of a tumor, and come to dominate a large, pre-existing lesion, has never been explained. We here describe a model for tumor evolution that shows how short-range migration and cell turnover can account for rapid cell mixing inside the tumor. With it, we show that even a small selective advantage of a single cell within a large tumor allows the descendants of that cell to replace the precursor mass in a clinically relevant time frame. We also demonstrate that the same mechanisms can be responsible for the rapid onset of resistance to chemotherapy. Our model not only provides novel insights into spatial and temporal aspects of tumor growth but also suggests that targeting short range cellular migratory activity could have dramatic effects on tumor growth rates.', u'Epistatic interactions can frustrate and shape evolutionary change. Indeed, phenotypes\nmay fail to evolve because essential mutations can only be selected positively if fixed\nsimultaneously. How environmental variability affects such constraints is poorly\nunderstood. Here we studied genetic constraints in fixed and fluctuating environments,\nusing the Escherichia coli lac operon as a model system for genotype-environment\ninteractions. The data indicated an apparent paradox: in different fixed environments,\nmutational trajectories became trapped at sub-optima where no further improvements\nwere possible, while repeated switching between these same environments allowed\nunconstrained adaptation by continuous improvements. Pervasive cross-environmental\ntrade-offs transformed peaks into valleys upon environmental change, thus enabling escape\nfrom entrapment. This study shows that environmental variability can lift genetic constraint,\nand that trade-offs not only impede but can also facilitate adaptive evolution.', u'Owing to the complexity of the assembly problem, we do not yet have complete genome sequences. The difficulty in assembling reads into finished genomes is exacerbated by sequence repeats and the inability of short reads to capture sufficient genomic information to resolve those problematic regions. Established and emerging long read technologies show great promise in this regard, but their current associated higher error rates typically require computational base correction and/or additional bioinformatics pre-processing before they could be of value. We present LINKS, the Long Interval Nucleotide K-mer Scaffolder algorithm, a solution that makes use of the information in error-rich long reads, without the need for read alignment or base correction. We show how the contiguity of an ABySS E. coli K-12 genome assembly could be increased over five-fold by the use of beta-released Oxford Nanopore Ltd. (ONT) long reads and how LINKS leverages long-range information in S. cerevisiae W303 ONT reads to yield an assembly with less than half the errors of competing applications. Re-scaffolding the colossal white spruce assembly draft (PG29, 20 Gbp) and how LINKS scales to larger genomes is also presented. We expect LINKS to have broad utility in harnessing the potential of long reads in connecting high-quality sequences of small and large genome assembly drafts.\nAvailability: http://www.bcgsc.ca/bioinfo/software/links', u'Evolution is a dynamic process.\nThe two classical forces of evolution are mutation and selection. \nAssuming small mutation rates, evolution can be predicted based solely on the fitness differences between phenotypes. \nPredicting an evolutionary process under varying mutation rates as well as varying fitness is still an open question. \nExperimental procedures, however, do include these complexities along with fluctuating population sizes and stochastic events such as extinctions.\nWe investigate the mutational path probabilities of systems having epistatic effects on both fitness and mutation rates using a theoretical and computational framework. \nIn contrast to previous models, we do not limit ourselves to the typical strong selection, weak mutation (SSWM)-regime or to fixed population sizes. \nRather we allow epistatic interactions to also affect mutation rates. \nThis can lead to qualitatively non-trivial dynamics. \nPathways, that are negligible in the SSWM-regime, can overcome fitness valleys and become accessible. \nThis finding has the potential to extend the traditional predictions based on the SSWM foundation and bring us closer to what is observed in experimental systems.', u'The evolution of heterogametic sex chromosome is often ? but not always ? accompanied by the evolution of dosage compensating mechanisms that mitigate the impact of sex-specific gene dosage on levels of gene expression.  One emerging view of this process is that such mechanisms may only evolve in male-heterogametic (XY) species but not in female-heterogametic (ZW) species, which will consequently exhibit ?incomplete? sex chromosome dosage compensation.  However, some recent results from moths suggest that Lepidoptera (moths and butterflies) may prove to be an exception to this prediction.  Here we report an analysis of sex chromosome dosage compensation in Heliconius butterflies, sampling multiple individuals for several different adult tissues (head, abdomen, leg, mouth, and antennae).  Methodologically, we introduce a novel application of linear mixed-effects models to assess dosage compensation, offering a unified statistical framework that can estimate effects specific to chromosome, to sex, and their interactions (i.e., a dosage effect).  Our results show substantially reduced Z-linked expression relative to autosomes in both sexes, as previously observed in bombycoid moths.  This observation is consistent with an increasing body of evidence that at least some species of moths and butterflies possess an epigenetic sex chromosome dosage compensating mechanism that operates by reducing Z chromosome expression in males.  However, this mechanism appears to be imperfect in Heliconius, resulting in a modest dosage effect that produces an average 5-20% male-bias on the Z chromosome, depending on the tissue.  Strong sex chromosome dosage effects have been previously in a pyralid moth.  Thus our results reflect a mixture of previous patterns reported for Lepidoptera and bisect the emerging view that female-heterogametic ZW taxa have incomplete dosage compensation because they lack a chromosome-wide epigenetic mechanism mediating sex chromosome dosage compensation.  In the case of Heliconius, sex chromosome dosage effects persist apparently despite such a mechanism. We also analyze chromosomal distributions of sex-biased genes and show an excess of male-biased and a dearth of female-biased genes on the Z chromosome relative to autosomes, consistent with predictions of sexually antagonistic evolution.', u'Perception and transduction of temperature changes result in altered growth enabling plants to adapt to increased ambient temperature. While PHYTOCHROME-INTERACTING FACTOR4 (PIF4) has been identified as a major ambient temperature signaling hub, its upstream regulation seems complex and is poorly understood. Here, we exploited natural variation for thermo-responsive growth in Arabidopsis thaliana using quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis. We identified GIRAFFE2.1, a major QTL explaining ~18% of the phenotypic variation for temperature-induced hypocotyl elongation in the Bay-0 x Sha recombinant inbred line population. Transgenic complementation demonstrated that allelic variation in the circadian clock regulator EARLY FLOWERING3 (ELF3) is underlying this QTL. The source of variation could be allocated to a single nucleotide polymorphism in the ELF3 coding region, resulting in differential expression of PIF4 and its target genes, likely causing the observed natural variation in thermo-responsive growth. In combination with other recent studies, this work establishes the role of ELF3 in the ambient temperature signaling network. Natural variation of ELF3-mediated gating of PIF4 expression during nightly growing periods seems to be affected by a coding sequence quantitative trait nucleotide that confers a selective advantage in certain environments.  In addition, natural ELF3 alleles seem to differentially integrate temperature and photoperiod cues to induce architectural changes. Thus, ELF3 emerges as an essential coordinator of growth and development in response to diverse environmental cues and implicates ELF3 as an important target of adaptation.', u'When learning a complex task our nervous system self-organizes large groups of neurons into coherent dynamic activity patterns. During this, a cell assembly network with multiple, simultaneously active, and computationally powerful assemblies is formed; a process which is so far not understood. Here we show that the combination of synaptic plasticity with the slower process of synaptic scaling achieves formation of such assembly networks. This type of\nself-organization allows executing a difficult, six degrees of freedom, manipulation task with a robot where assemblies need to learn computing complex non-linear transforms and - for execution - must cooperate with each other without interference. This mechanism, thus, permits for the first time the guided self-organization of computationally powerful sub-structures in dynamic networks for behavior control.', u'Inheritance-biasing \u201cgene drives\u201d may be capable of spreading genomic alterations made in laboratory organisms through wild populations. We previously considered the potential for RNA-guided gene drives based on the versatile CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing system to serve as a general method of altering populations. Here we report molecularly contained gene drive constructs in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae that are typically copied at rates above 99% when mated to wild yeast. We successfully targeted both non-essential and essential genes, showed that the inheritance of an unrelated \u201ccargo\u201d gene could be biased by an adjacent drive, and constructed a drive capable of overwriting and reversing changes made by a previous drive. Our results demonstrate that RNA-guided gene drives are capable of efficiently biasing inheritance when mated to wild-type organisms over successive generations.', u'This is an implementation of the R statistical software qvalue package (Alan Dabney, John D. Storey and with assistance from Gregory R. Warnes (). qvalue: Q-value estimation for false discovery rate control. R package version 1.34.0.), designed for use with large datasets where memory or computation time is limiting. In addition to estimating p values adjusted for multiple testing, the software outputs a script which can be pasted into R to produce diagnostic plots and report parameter estimates. This program runs almost 30 times faster and requests substantially less memory than the qvalue package when analysing 10 million p values on a high performance cluster. The software has been used to control for the multiple testing of 390 million tests when analysing a full cis scan of RNA-seq exon level gene expression from the Eurobats project. The source code and links to executable files for linux and Mac OSX can be found here: https://github.com/abrown25/qvalue. Help for the package can be found by running ./largeQvalue --help.', u'Background: Bayesian networks are directed acyclic graphical models widely\nused to represent the probabilistic relationships between random variables.\nRecently, they have been applied in various biological contexts, including gene\nregulatory networks and protein-protein interactions inference. Generally, learning\nBayesian networks from experimental data is NP-hard, leading to widespread use\nof heuristic search methods giving suboptimal results. However, in cases when the\nacyclicity of the graph can be ensured, it is possible to find the optimal network\nin polynomial time. While our previously developed tool BNFinder implements\npolynomial time algorithm, reconstructing networks with the large amount of\nexperimental data still leads to numerous days of the computations given single\nCPU.\nResults: In the present paper we propose parallelized algorithm designed for\nmulti-core and distributed systems and its implementation in the improved\nversion of BNFinder - our tool for learning optimal Bayesian networks. The new\nalgorithm has been tested on simulated datasets as well as different experimental\ndata showing that it has much better efficiency of parallelization than the\nprevious version. When tested on the DREAM datasets in comparison with other\nmethods, BNFinder gives consistently the best results in terms of the area under\nthe ROC curve as well as in the number of positive predictions at the top of the\nprediction ranking. The latter is especially important for the purposes of the\nfuture experimental validation of the predictions.\nConclusions: We show that the new method can be used to reconstruct\nnetworks in the size range of thousands of genes making it practically applicable\nto whole genome datasets of prokaryotic systems and large components of\neukaryotic genomes. Our benchmarking results on realistic datasets indicate that\nthe tool should be useful to wide audience of researchers interested in discovering\ndependencies in their large-scale transcriptomic datasets.\nKeywords: Bayesian networks learning; gene regulatory networks inference;\ndistributed computing; DREAM challenge', u'regionReport is a R package for generating detailed interactive reports from regions of the genome. The report includes quality-control checks, an overview of the results, an interactive table of the genomic regions, and reproducibility information. regionReport can easily be expanded with report templates for other specialized analyses. In particular, regionReport has an extensive report template for exploring derfinder results from annotation-agnostic RNA-seq differential expression analyses. regionReport is freely available via Bioconductor at\nbioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/html/regionReport.html .', u'Introgressive hybridization challenges the concepts we use to define species and our ability to infer their evolutionary relationships. Methods for inferring historical introgression from the genomes of extant species are now widely used, however, few guidelines have been articulated for how best to interpret their results. Because these tests are inherently comparative, we show that they are sensitivite to the effects of missing data (unsampled species) and to non-independence (hierarchical relationships among species). We demonstrate this using genomic RAD data sampled from populations across the geographic ranges of all extant species in the American live oaks (Quercus series Virentes), a group notorious for hybridization. By considering all species in the clade, and their phylogenetic relationships, we were able to distinguish true hybridizing lineages from those that falsely appear admixed due to phylogenetic structure among hybridizing relatives. Six of seven species show evidence of admixture, often with multiple other species, but which can be explained by hybrid introgression among few related lineages where they occur in close proximity. We identify the Cuban oak as a highly admixed lineage and use an information-theoretic model comparison approach to test alternative scenarios for its origin. Hybrid speciation is a poor fit compared to a model in which a population from Central America colonized Cuba and received subsequent gene flow from Florida. The live oaks form a continuous ring-like distribution around the Gulf of Mexico, connected in Cuba, across which they could effectively exchange alleles. However, introgression appears to remain localized to areas of sympatry, suggesting that oak species boundaries, and their geographic ranges have remained relatively stable over evolutionary time.', u'Transcription factors canonically bind nucleosome-free DNA, making the positioning of nucleosomes within regulatory regions crucial to the regulation of gene expression. We observe a highly structured pattern of DNA fragment lengths and positions generated by the assay of transposase accessible chromatin (ATAC-seq) around nucleosomes in S. cerevisiae, and use this distinctive two-dimensional nucleosomal \u201cfingerprint\u201d as the basis for a new nucleosome-positioning algorithm called NucleoATAC. We show that NucleoATAC can identify the rotational and translational positions of nucleosomes with up to base pair resolution and provide quantitative measures of nucleosome occupancy in S. cerevisiae, S. pombe, and human cells. We demonstrate application of NucleoATAC to a number of outstanding problems in chromatin biology, including analysis of sequence features underlying nucleosome positioning, promoter chromatin architecture across species, identification of transient changes in nucleosome occupancy and positioning during a dynamic cellular response, and integrated analysis of nucleosome occupancy and transcription factor binding.', u'Mutations virtually always have pleiotropic effects, yet most genome-wide association studies (GWAS) analyze effects one trait at a time. In order to investigate the performance of a multivariate approach to GWAS, we simulated scenarios where variation in a d-dimensional phenotype space was caused by a known subset of SNPs.  Multivariate analyses of variance were then carried out on k traits, where k could be less than, greater than or equal to d.  Our results show that power is maximized and false discovery rate (FDR) minimized when the number of traits analyzed, k, matches the true dimensionality of the phenotype being analyzed, d.  When true dimensionality is high, the power of a single univariate analysis can be an order of magnitude less than the k=d case, even when the single trait with the largest genetic variance is chosen for analysis. When traits are added to a study in order of their independent genetic variation, the gains in power from increasing k up to d are much larger than the loss in power when k exceeds d.   Simulations that explicitly model linkage disequilibrium (LD) indicate that when SNPs in disequilibrium are subjected to multivariate analysis, the magnitude of the apparent effect induced onto null SNPs by SNPs carrying a true effect weakens as k approaches d, such that the rank of P-values among a set of correlated SNPs becomes an increasingly reliable predictor of true positives. Multivariate GWAS outperform univariate ones under a wide range of conditions, and should become the standard in studies of the inheritance of complex phenotypes.', u'Epistatic interactions among genomic loci are expected to explain a large fraction of the heritability of complex diseases and phenotypic traits of living organisms. Although epistasis detection methods are continually being developed, the current state of the art is exhaustive search methods, which become infeasible when the number of analyzed loci is large. We develop a novel latent interaction-based selection method for polymorphic loci as the first stage of a two-stage epistasis detection approach. Given a continuous phenotype and a single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), we rank the SNPs according to their interaction potential. When tested on simulated datasets and compared to standard marginal association and exhaustive search methods, our procedure significantly outperforms main-effect heuristics, especially in the presence of linkage disequilibrium (LD), which is explicitly accounted for in our model. Applied to real human genotype data, we prioritized several SNP pairs as candidates for epistatic interactions that influence human working memory performance, some of which are known to be connected to this phenotype. The proposed method improves two-stage epistasis detection. Its linear runtime and increased statistical power contribute to reducing the computational complexity and to addressing some of the statistical challenges associated with the genome-wide search for epistatic loci.', u'Background: Siphonophores (Hydrozoa) have unparalleled colony-level complexity, precision of colony organization, and functional specialization between zooids (i.e., the units that make up colonies). Previous work has shown that, unlike other colonial animals, most growth in siphonophores is restricted to one or two well-defined growth zones that are the sites of both elongation and zooid budding. It remained unknown, however, how this unique colony growth and development is realized at the cellular level. \n \nResults: To understand the colony-level growth and development of siphonophores at the cellular level, we characterize the distribution of proliferating cells and interstitial stem cells (i-cells) in the siphonophore Nanomia bijuga. Within the colony we find that i-cells are present at the tip of the horn, the structure within the growth zone that gives rise to new zooids. They persist in the youngest zooid buds, but as each zooid matures i-cells become progressively restricted to specific regions within the zooids until they are mostly absent from the oldest zooids. I-cell marker-gene expression remained in gametogenic regions. I-cells are not found in the stem between maturing zooids. Domains of high cell proliferation include regions where i-cells can be found, but also include some areas without i-cells such as the stem within the growth zones. Cell proliferation in regions devoid of marker gene expression indicates the presence of mitotically active epithelial cell lineages and, potentially, progenitor cell populations.  \n \nConclusions: Restriction of stem cells to particular regions in the colony may play a major role in facilitating the precision of siphonophore growth, and also lead to a reduced developmental plasticity in other, typically older, parts of the colony. This helps explain why siphonophore colonies have such precise colony-level organization.', u'Here we present NeuroVault - a web based repository that allows researchers to store, share, visualize, and decode statistical maps of the human brain. NeuroVault is easy to use and employs modern web technologies to provide informative visualization of data without the need to install additional software. In addition, it leverages the power of the Neurosynth database to provide cognitive decoding of deposited maps. The data are exposed through a public REST API enabling other services and tools to take advantage of it.  NeuroVault is a new resource for researchers interested in conducting meta- and coactivation analyses.', u'Mutational signatures are patterns in the occurrence of somatic single nucleotide variants (SNVs) that can reflect underlying mutational processes. The SomaticSignatures package provides flexible, interoperable, and easy-to-use tools that identify such signatures in cancer sequencing data. It facilitates large-scale, cross-dataset estimation of mutational signatures, implements existing methods for pattern decomposition, supports extension through user-defined methods and integrates with Bioconductor workflows.\n\nThe R package SomaticSignatures is available as part of the Bioconductor project (R Core Team, 2014; Gentleman et al., 2004). Its documentation provides additional details on the methodology and demonstrates applications to biological datasets.', u'The enormous size and complexity of genotypic sequence space frequently requires consideration of coarse-grained sequences in empirical models.  We develop scaling relations to quantify the effect of this coarse-graining on properties of fitness landscapes and evolutionary paths.  We first consider evolution on a simple Mount Fuji fitness landscape, focusing on how the length and predictability of evolutionary paths scale with the coarse-grained sequence length and alphabet.  We obtain simple scaling relations for both the weak- and strong-selection limits, with a non-trivial crossover regime at intermediate selection strengths.  We apply these results to evolution on a biophysical fitness landscape that describes how proteins evolve new binding interactions while maintaining their folding stability.  We combine the scaling relations with numerical calculations for coarse-grained protein sequences to obtain quantitative properties of the model for realistic binding interfaces and a full amino acid alphabet.', u'The advent of a new generation of electron microscopes and direct electron detectors has realized the potential of single particle cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) as a technique to generate high-resolution structures. However, calculating these structures requires high performance computing clusters, a resource that may be limiting to many likely cryo-EM users. To address this limitation and facilitate the spread of cryo-EM, we developed a publicly available \u2018off-the-shelf\u2019 computing environment on Amazon\u2019s elastic cloud computing infrastructure. This environment provides users with single particle cryo-EM software packages and the ability to create computing clusters that can range in size from 16 to 480+ CPUs. Importantly, these computing clusters are also cost-effective, as we illustrate here by determining a near-atomic resolution structure of the 80S yeast ribosome for $28.89 USD in ~10 hours.', u'As the number of whole genomes available for study increases, so also does the opportunity to find unsuspected features hidden within our genetic code.\nOne such feature allows for an estimate of the Human Mutation Rate in human chromosomes to be made. A NUMT is a small fragment of the mitochondrial DNA that enters the nucleus of a cell, gets captured by a chromosome and thereafter passed on from generation to generation. Over the millions of years of evolution, this unexpected phenomenon has happened many times. But it is usually very difficult to be able to say just when a NUMT might have been created. However, this paper presents evidence to show that for one particular NUMT the date of formation was around 29 million ago, which places the event in the Early Oligocene; when our ancestors were small monkey-like creatures. So now all of us carry this NUMT in each of our cells as do Old World Monkeys, the Great Apes and our nearest relations, the Chimpanzees. The estimate of the Human Mutation obtained by the method outlined here gives a value which is higher than has been generally found; but this new value perhaps only applies to non-coding regions of the Human genome where there is little, if any, selection pressure against new mutations.', u"Real-world time-continuous stimuli such as video promise greater naturalism for studies of brain function. However, modeling the stimulus variation is challenging and introduces a bias in favor of particular descriptive dimensions. Alternatively, we can look for brain regions whose signal is correlated between subjects, essentially using one subject to model another. Intersubject correlation mapping (ICM) allows us to find brain regions driven in a canonical manner across subjects by a complex natural stimulus. However, it requires a direct voxel-to-voxel match between the spatiotemporal activity patterns and is thus only sensitive to common activations sufficiently extended to match up in Talairach space (or in an alternative, e.g. cortical-surface-based, common brain space). Here we introduce the more general approach of intersubject information mapping (IIM). For each brain region, IIM determines how much information is shared between the subjects' local spatiotemporal activity patterns. We estimate the intersubject mutual information using canonical correlation analysis applied to voxels within a spherical searchlight centered on each voxel in turn. The intersubject information estimate is invariant to linear transforms including spatial rearrangement of the voxels within the searchlight. This invariance to local encoding will be crucial in exploring fine-grained brain representations, which cannot be matched up in a common space and, more fundamentally, might be unique to each individual \u2013 like fingerprints. IIM yields a continuous brain map, which reflects intersubject information in fine-grained patterns. Performed on data from functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) of subjects viewing the same television show, IIM and ICM both highlighted sensory representations, including primary visual and auditory cortices. However, IIM revealed additional regions in higher association cortices, namely temporal pole and orbitofrontal cortex. These regions appear to encode the same information across subjects in their fine-grained patterns, although their spatial-average activation was not significantly correlated between subjects.", u'Sex-biased demography, in which parameters governing migration and population size differ between females and males, has been studied through comparisons of X chromosomes, which are inherited sex-specifically, and autosomes, which are not. A common form of sex bias in humans is sex-biased admixture, in which at least one of the source populations differs in its proportions of females and males contributing to an admixed population.  Studies of sex-biased admixture often examine the mean ancestry for markers on the X chromosome in relation to the autosomes. A simple framework noting that in a population with equally many females and males, 2/3 of X chromosomes appear in females, suggests that the mean X-chromosomal admixture fraction is a linear combination of female and male admixture parameters, with coefficients 2/3 and 1/3, respectively. Extending a mechanistic admixture model to accommodate the X chromosome, we demonstrate that this prediction is not generally true in admixture models, though it holds in the limit for an admixture process occurring as a single event. For a model with constant ongoing admixture, we determine the mean X-chromosomal admixture, comparing admixture on female and male X chromosomes to corresponding autosomal values. Surprisingly, in reanalyzing African-American genetic data to estimate sex-specific contributions from African and European sources, we find that the range of contributions compatible with the excess African ancestry on the X chromosome compared to autosomes has a wide spread, permitting scenarios either without male-biased contributions from Europe or without female-biased contributions from Africa.', u'Recent genomic studies have highlighted the important role of admixture in shaping genome-wide patterns of diversity. Past admixture leaves a population genomic signature of linkage disequilibrium (LD), reflecting the mixing of parental chromosomes by segregation and recombination. The extent of this LD can be used to infer the timing of admixture.  However, the results of inference can depend strongly on the assumed demographic model. Here, we introduce a theoretical framework for modeling patterns of LD in a geographic contact zone where two differentiated populations are diffusing back together. We derive expressions for the expected LD and admixture tract lengths across geographic space as a function of the age of the contact zone and the dispersal distance of individuals. We develop an approach to infer age of contact zones using population genomic data from multiple spatially sampled populations by fitting our model to the decay of LD with recombination distance.  We use our approach to explore the fit of a geographic contact zone model to three human population genomic datasets from populations along the Indonesian archipelago, populations in Central Asia and populations in India.', u'Background\nDNA methylation is an epigenetic modification that is ubiquitous across many eukaryotes, with variable patterns and functions across taxa. The roles of DNA methylation during invertebrate development remain enigmatic, especially regarding the inheritance and ontogenetic dynamics of methylation. In order to better understand to what degree DNA methylation patterns are heritable, variable between individuals, and changing during Crassostrea gigas development, we characterized the genome-wide methylome of Crassostrea gigas sperm and larvae from two full-sib families nested within a maternal half-sib family across developmental stages. \n\nResults\nBisulfite treated DNA sequencing of Crassostrea gigas sperm and larvae at 72 hours post fertilization and 120 hours post fertilization revealed DNA methylation ranges from 15-18%. Our data suggest that DNA methylation patterns are inherited, as methylation patterns were more similar between the two sires and their offspring compared to methylations pattern differences among developmental stages.  Loci differing between the two paternal full-sib families (189) were found throughout the genome but were concentrated in transposable elements. The proportion of differentially methylated loci among developmental stages was not significantly greater in any genomic region.\n\n\nConclusions\nThis study provides the first single-base pair resolution DNA methylomes for both oyster sperm and larval samples from multiple crosses. Assuming DNA methylation is introduced randomly, the predominance of differentially methylated loci between families within transposable elements could be associated with selection against altering methylation in gene bodies. For instance, differentially methylated loci in gene bodies could be lethal or deleterious, as they would alter gene expression. Another possibility is that differentially methylated loci may provide advantageous phenotypic variation by increasing transposable element mobility. Future research should focus on the relationship between epigenetic and genetic variation, and explore the possible relationship of DNA methylation and transposable element activity.', u'\u201cCandidatus Liberibacter africanus\u201d (Laf) has long been recognised as a causal agent of the devastating citrus disease huanglongbing (HLB) or citrus greening. This species is currently restricted to Africa, the Arabian Peninsula and some Indian Ocean islands and vectored by the African citrus psyllid, Trioza erytreae. Blotchy mottle on citrus leaves is characteristic of the disease.\nSomewhat similar symptoms in the Rutaceous tree Calodendrum capensis (Cape Chestnut) resulted in the discovery of Laf outside commercial citrus crops in South Africa.  This was classed as a subspecies of Laf (capensis, hence LafC).  In subsequent surveys of both commercial citrus crops and Calodendrum, both natural and ornamental specimens, LafC was not found in the citrus crop, nor has Laf been found in C. capensis.  HLB was reported from Madagascar in 1968 but no sequences from this source have so far been published.\nUntil fairly recently, only the reference 16S rRNA gene sequences of Laf (L22533) and LafC (AF137368) had been deposited in GenBank.  Both of these reference sequences contain a number of unresolved nucleotides.  Resolving these nucleotide positions by aligning against more recently available sequences, it becomes evident that these unresolved positions represent one percentage point difference in similarity between Laf and LafC.  The originally reported 97.4% similarity is therefore incorrect based on this new information.  Recalculating the similarity on the full length 16S rDNA sequence results in 99.54% similarity, a value too high to justify a subspecies status.  LafC should therefore be reduced to that of a haplotype of Laf.  \nFurther, the six 16S rRNA gene sequences currently available in GenBank identified as the species Laf separate into 2 haplotype groups.  The 3 haplotypes of Laf are therefore LafA designated as the first  accession sequenced (L22533), LafC for the former capensis subspecies and to recognise the prior use of this term, and LafB for the third haplotype not previously recognised. Thus the cryptic presence of 3 haplotypes is revealed by this review of the Laf 16S rDNA sequences.', u'The understanding of the regulatory processes that orchestrate stem cell maintenance is a cornerstone in developmental biology. Here, we present a mathematical model based on a branching process formalism that predicts average rates of proliferative and differentiative divisions in a given stem cell population. In the context of vertebrate spinal neurogenesis, the model predicts complex non-monotonic variations in the rates of pp, pd and dd modes of division as well as in cell cycle length, in agreement with experimental results. Moreover, the model shows that the differentiation probability follows a binomial distribution, allowing us to develop equations to predict the rates of each mode of division. A phenomenological simulation of the developing spinal cord informed with the average cell cycle length and division rates predicted by the mathematical model reproduces the correct dynamics of proliferation and differentiation in terms of average numbers of progenitors and differentiated cells. Overall, the present mathematical framework represents a powerful tool to unveil the changes in the rate and mode of division of a given stem cell pool by simply quantifying numbers of cells at different times.', u'Hippocampal synaptic activity is probabilistic and because synaptic plasticity depends on its\nhistory, the amount of information that can be stored at a synapse is limited. The strong correlation between the size and efficacy of a synapse allowed us to estimate the precision of\nsynaptic plasticity. In an electron microscopic reconstruction of hippocampal neuropil we found\nsingle axons making two or more synaptic contacts onto the same dendrites which would have shared histories of presynaptic and postsynaptic activity. The postsynaptic spine heads, but not\nthe spine necks, of these pairs were nearly identical in size. The precision is much greater than previous estimates and requires postsynaptic averaging over a time window many seconds to\nminutes in duration depending on the rate of input spikes and probability of release.', u'P-bodies (PB) are ribonucleoprotein (RNP) complexes that aggregate into cytoplasmic foci when cells are exposed to stress.  While the conserved mRNA decay and translational repression machineries are known components of PB, how and why cells assemble RNP complexes into large foci remain unclear.  Using mass spectrometry to analyze proteins immunoisolated with the core PB protein Dhh1, we show that a considerable number of proteins contain low-complexity (LC) sequences, similar to proteins highly represented in mammalian RNP granules.  We also show that the Hsp40 chaperone Ydj1, which contains an LC domain and controls prion protein aggregation, is required for the formation of Dhh1-GFP foci upon glucose depletion.  New classes of proteins that reproducibly co-enrich with Dhh1-GFP during PB induction include proteins involved in nucleotide or amino acid metabolism, glycolysis, tRNA aminoacylation, and protein folding.  Many of these proteins have been shown to form foci in response to other stresses.  Finally, analysis of RNA associated with Dhh1-GFP shows enrichment of mRNA encoding the PB protein Pat1 and catalytic RNAs along with their associated mitochondrial RNA-binding proteins, suggesting an active role for RNA in PB function.  Thus, global characterization of PB composition has uncovered proteins and RNA that are important for PB assembly.', u'A method for de novo assembly of data from the Oxford Nanopore MinION instrument is presented which is able to reconstruct the sequence of an entire bacterial chromosome in a single contig. Initially, overlaps between nanopore reads are detected. Reads are then subjected to one or more rounds of error correction by a multiple alignment process employing partial order graphs. After correction, reads are assembled using the Celera assembler. Finally, the assembly is polished using signal-level data from the nanopore employing a novel hidden Markov model. We show that this method is able to assemble nanopore reads from Escherichia coli K-12 MG1655 into a single contig of length 4.6Mb permitting a full reconstruction of gene order. The resulting draft assembly has 98.4% nucleotide identity compared to the finished reference genome. After polishing the assembly with our signal-level HMM, the nucleotide identity is improved to 99.4%. We show that MinION sequencing data can be used to reconstruct genomes without the need for a reference sequence or data from other sequencing platforms.', u'The \u201cCoexistence Approach\u201d is a mutual climate range (MCR) technique combined with the nearest-living relative (NLR) concept. It has been widely used for palaeoclimate reconstructions based on Eurasian plant fossil assemblages, most of them palynofloras (studied using light microscopy). The results have been surprisingly uniform, typically converging to subtropical, per-humid or monsoonal conditions. Studies based on the coexistence approach have had a marked impact in literature, generating over 10,000 citations thus far. However, recent studies have pointed out inherent theoretical and practical problems entangled in the application of this widely used method. But so far little is known how results generated by the coexistence approach are affected by subjective errors, data errors, and violations of the basic assumptions. The majority of Coexistence Approach studies make use of the Palaeoflora database (the combination of which will be abbreviated to CA+PF). Testing results produced by CA+PF studies has been hindered by the general unavailability of the contents in the underlying Palaeoflora database; two exceptions are the mean-annual temperature tolerances and lists of assigned associations between fossils and nearest-living relatives. Using a recently published study on the Eocene of China, which provides the first usable insight into the data structure of the Palaeoflora database, we compare the theory and practice of Coexistence Approach using the Palaeoflora database (CA+PF). We show that CA+PF is riddled by association and climate data error. We reveal the flaws in the application of CA, which is often in stark contrast to the theory of the method. We show that CA+PF is highly vulnerable against numerous sources of errors, mainly because it lacks safeguards that could identify unreliable data. We demonstrate that the CA+PF produces coherent, pseudo-precise results even for artificially generated, random plant assemblages. Alternative MCR-NLR methods can surpass the most imminent deficits of CA, and may be used as a stop-gap until more accurate bioclimatic and distribution data on potential Eurasian NLRs, and theoretically- and statistically-robust methods will become available. Finally, general guidelines are provided for the future application of methods using the mutual climatic range with nearest living relatives approach when reconstructing climate from plant fossil assemblages.', u'Genome assembly projects typically run multiple algorithms in an attempt to find the single best assembly, although those assemblies often have complementary, if untapped, strengths and weaknesses. We present our metassembler algorithm that merges multiple assemblies of a genome into a single superior sequence. We apply it to the four genomes from the Assemblathon competitions and show it consistently and substantially improves the contiguity and quality of each assembly. We also develop guidelines for metassembly by systematically evaluating 120 permutations of merging the top 5 assemblies of the first Assemblathon competition. The software is open-source at http://metassembler.sourceforge.net.', u'Background: We perform the theoretical analysis of a gene network sub-system, composed of a feed-forward\nloop, in which the upstream transcription factor regulates the target gene via two parallel pathways: directly, and\nvia interaction with miRNA.\nResults: As the molecular mechanisms of miRNA action are not clear so far, we elaborate three mathematical\nmodels, in which miRNA either represses translation of its target or promotes target mRNA degradation, or is not\nre-used, but degrades along with target mRNA. We examine the feed-forward loop dynamics quantitatively at the\nwhole time interval of cell cycle. We rigorously proof the uniqueness of solutions to the models and obtain the\nexact solutions in one of them analytically.\nConclusions: We have shown that different mechanisms of miRNA action lead to a variety of types of dynamical\nbehavior of feed-forward loops. In particular, we found that the ability of feed-forward loop to dampen fluctuations\nintroduced by transcription factor is the model and parameter dependent feature. We also discuss how our results\ncould help a biologist to infer the mechanism of miRNA action.', u'Background\nInsertion sequences (IS) are small transposable elements, commonly found in bacterial genomes. Identifying the location of IS in bacterial genomes can be useful for a variety of purposes including epidemiological tracking and predicting antibiotic resistance. However IS are commonly present in multiple copies in a single genome, which complicates genome assembly and the identification of IS insertion sites. Here we present ISMapper, a mapping-based tool for identification of the site and orientation of IS insertions in bacterial genomes, direct from paired-end short read data. \nResults\nISMapper was validated using three types of short read data: (i) simulated reads from a variety of species, (ii) Illumina reads from 5 isolates for which finished genome sequences were available for comparison, and (iii) Illumina reads from 7 Acinetobacter baumannii isolates for which predicted IS locations were tested using PCR. A total of 20 genomes, including 13 species and 32 distinct IS, were used for validation. ISMapper correctly identified 96% of known IS insertions in the analysis of simulated reads, and 98% in real Illumina reads. Subsampling of real Illumina reads to lower depths indicated ISMapper was reliable for average genome-wide read depths >20x. All ISAba1 insertions identified by ISMapper in the A. baumannii genomes were confirmed by PCR. In each A. baumannii genome, ISMapper successfully identified an IS insertion upstream of the ampC beta-lactamase that could explain phenotypic resistance to third-generation cephalosporins. The utility of ISMapper was further demonstrated by profiling genome-wide IS6110 insertions in 138 publicly available Mycobacterium tuberculosis genomes, revealing lineage-specific insertions and multiple insertion hotspots.\nConclusions\nISMapper provides a rapid and robust method for identifying IS insertion sites direct from short read data, with a high degree of accuracy demonstrated across a wide range of bacteria.', u'A structural and functional classification of H/ACA and H/ACA-like motifs is proposed from the analysis of the H/ACA guide RNAs which have been identified previously in the genomes of Euryarchaea (Pyrococcus) and Crenarchaea (Pyrobaculum). A unified structure/function model is proposed based on the common structural determinants shared by H/ACA and H/ACA-like motifs in both Euryarchaea and Crenarchaea. Using a computational approach, structural and energetic rules for the guide-target RNA-RNA interactions are derived from structural and functional data on the H/ACA RNP particles. H/ACA(-like) motifs found in Pyrococcus are evaluated through the classification and their biological relevance is discussed. Extra-ribosomal targets found in both Pyrococcus and Pyrobaculum are presented as testable gene candidates which might support the hypothesis of a gene regulation mediated by H/ACA(-like) guide RNAs.', u'Plant plasma membrane localized pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) detect extracellular pathogen-associated molecules. PRRs such as Arabidopsis EFR and rice XA21 are taxonomically restricted and are absent from most plant genomes. Here we show that rice plants expressing EFR or the chimeric receptor EFR::XA21, containing the EFR ectodomain and the XA21 intracellular domain, sense both Escherichia coli- and Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo)-derived elf18 peptides at sub-nanomolar concentrations. Treatment of EFR and EFR::XA21 rice leaf tissue with elf18 leads to MAP kinase activation, reactive oxygen production and defense gene expression. Although expression of EFR does not lead to robust enhanced resistance to fully virulent Xoo isolates, it does lead to quantitatively enhanced resistance to weakly virulent Xoo isolates. EFR interacts with OsSERK2 and the XA21 binding protein 24 (XB24), two key components of the rice XA21-mediated immune response. Rice-EFR plants silenced for OsSERK2, or overexpressing rice XB24 are compromised in elf18-induced reactive oxygen production and defense gene expression indicating that these proteins are also important for EFR-mediated signaling in transgenic rice.  Taken together, our results demonstrate the potential feasibility of enhancing disease resistance in rice and possibly other monocotyledonous crop species by expression of dicotyledonous PRRs. Our results also suggest that Arabidopsis EFR utilizes at least a subset of the known endogenous rice XA21 signaling components.', u'Techniques for reconstructing geographical history along a phylogeny can answer many interesting question about the geographical origins of species.  Bayesian models based on the assumption that taxa move through a diffusion process have found many applications. However, these methods rely on diffusion processes on a plane, and do not take the spherical nature of our planet in account. This makes it hard to perform analysis that cover the whole world, or do not take in account the distortions caused by projections like the Mercator projection.\n    \n    In this paper, we introduce a Bayesian phylogeographical method based on diffusion on a sphere. When the area where taxa are sampled from is small, a sphere can be approximated by a plane and the model results in the same inferences as with models using diffusion on a plane. For taxa samples from the whole world, we obtain substantial differences. We present an efficient algorithm for performing inference in an Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) algorithm, and show applications to small and large samples areas.\n    \n    Availability: The method is implemented in the GEO_SPHERE package in BEAST 2, which is open source licensed under LGPL.', u'The forebrain has the most complex shape and structure of the vertebrate brain regions and the mechanisms of its formation remain obscure. Convergence and extension movements are characteristic of the posterior (spinal cord and hindbrain) neural plate (pNP) while tissue de- formations and underlying cellular dynamics during the early shaping of the forebrain neural plate (fNP) are undefined. Here, we apply live imaging, automated cell tracking and compu- tational analysis to quantitatively map cell behaviour in the zebrafish fNP. We demonstrate a novel mechanism in which planar cell rearrangements, with a passive signature, are orthogo- nal to those in the pNP, and cell divisions lacking planar-polarity facilitate thickening from two to three layers. We develop a mechanical model of the fNP in which polarised cell be- haviour arises from interactions with dissimilar bordering tissues rather than from intrinsical- ly polarised cells. The model unifies in vivo observations and provides a mechanistic under- standing of fNP morphogenesis.', u'Reliability of scientific findings is important, especially if they directly impact decision making, such as in environmental management. In the 1990s, assessments of reliability in the medical field resulted in the development of evidence-based practice. Ten years later, evidence-based practice was translated into conservation, but so far no guidelines exist on how to assess the evidence of individual studies. Assessing the evidence of individual studies is essential to appropriately identify and summarize the confidence in research findings. We develop a tool to assess the strength of evidence of ecosystem services and conservation studies. This tool consists of (1) a hierarchy of evidence, based on the experimental design of studies and (2) a critical-appraisal checklist that identifies the quality of research implementation. The application is illustrated with 13 examples and we suggest further steps required to move towards more evidence-based environmental management.', u'During the last two decades ferrets (Mustela putorius) have been established as a highly efficient animal model in different fields in neuroscience. Here we asked whether ferrets integrate sensory information according to the same principles established for other species. Since only few methods and protocols are available for behaving ferrets we developed a head-free, body-restrained approach allowing a standardized stimulation position and the utilization of the ferret?s natural response behavior. We established a behavioral paradigm to test audiovisual integration in the ferret. Animals had to detect a brief auditory and/or visual stimulus presented either left or right from their midline. We first determined detection thresholds for auditory amplitude and visual contrast. In a second step, we combined both modalities and compared psychometric fits and the reaction times between all conditions. We employed Maximum Likelihood Estimation (MLE) to model bimodal psychometric curves and to investigate whether ferrets integrate modalities in an optimal manner. Furthermore, to test for a redundant signal effect we pooled the reaction times of all animals to calculate a race model. We observed that bimodal detection thresholds were reduced and reaction times were faster in the bimodal compared to unimodal conditions. The race model and MLE modeling showed that ferrets integrate modalities in a statistically optimal fashion. Taken together, the data indicate that principles of multisensory integration previously demonstrated in other species also apply to crossmodal processing in the ferret.', u'Three of the five currently  recognized \u201cCandidatus Liberibacter\u201d spp., \u201cCa. L. asiaticus\u201d (Las), \u201cCa. L. americanus\u201d (Lam) and \u201cCa. L. solanacearum\u201d, and the newly erected genus Liberibacter species, L. crescens (Lcr), have had their genomes sequenced. In all four\ncases there are three homogeneous copies of the 16S rRNA gene, one present as the reverse complement of the other two. 16S intragenic homogeneity is common within the \u03b1-Proteobacteria. The presence of three 16S rRNA copies indicates an advantage for a rapid response of population increase to favourable growth conditions. The metabolic cost of carrying multiple copies is avoided during periods of low cellular activity as this situation occurs at low temperatures, for example overwintering in deciduous plants or\nin a dormant insect host.\nA large insertion in the 16S rDNA sequence of three species compared to the other three species indicates a dichotomy in the\nLiberibacter genus and provides a phylogenetic signal of closeness to the proximal node within the Rhizobiaceae. In spite of similar symptoms in Citrus crops associated with Lam and Las infections, these species belong on either side of this dichotomy, thus confirming Lam as phylogenetically closer to the proximal node than Las.', u'Background\nRNA sequencing (RNA-seq) is a powerful tool for genome-wide expression profiling of biological samples with the advantage of high-throughput and high resolution.  There are many existing algorithms nowadays for quantifying expression levels and detecting differential gene expression, but none of them takes the misaligned reads that are mapped to non-exonic regions into account.  We developed a novel algorithm, XBSeq, where a statistical model was established based on the assumption that observed signals are the convolution of true expression signals and sequencing noises.  The mapped reads in non-exonic regions are considered as sequencing noises, which follows a Poisson distribution.  Given measureable observed and noise signals from RNA-seq data, true expression signals, assuming governed by the negative binomial distribution, can be delineated and thus the accurate detection of differential expressed genes.\nResults\nWe implemented our novel XBSeq algorithm and evaluated it by using a set of simulated expression datasets under different conditions, using a combination of negative binomial and Poisson distributions with parameters derived from real RNA-seq data.  We compared the performance of our method with other commonly used differential expression analysis algorithms.  We also evaluated the changes in true and false positive rates with variations in biological replicates, differential fold changes, and expression levels in non-exonic regions.  We also tested the algorithm on a set of real RNA-seq data where the common and different detection results from different algorithms were reported.\nConclusions\nIn this paper, we proposed a novel XBSeq, a differential expression analysis algorithm for RNA-seq data that takes non-exonic mapped reads into consideration.  When background noise is at baseline level, the performance of XBSeq and DESeq are mostly equivalent. However, our method surpasses DESeq and other algorithms with the increase of non-exonic mapped reads.  Only in very low read count condition XBSeq had a slightly higher false discovery rate, which may be improved by adjusting the background noise effect in this situation.  Taken together, by considering non-exonic mapped reads, XBSeq can provide accurate expression measurement and thus detect differential expressed genes even in noisy conditions.', u'Cross-frequency coupling (CFC) has been suggested to constitute a highly flexible mechanism for cortical information gating and processing, giving rise to conscious perception and various higher cognitive functions in humans. In particular, it might provide an elegant tool for information integration across several spatiotemporal scales within nested or coupled neuronal networks. However, it is currently unknown whether low frequency (theta/alpha) or high frequency gamma oscillations orchestrate cross-frequency interactions, raising the question of who is master and who is slave. While correlative evidence suggested that at least two distinct CFC modes exist, namely phase-amplitude-coupling (PAC) and amplitude-envelope-correlations (AEC), it is currently unknown whether they subserve distinct cortical functions. Novel non-invasive brain stimulation tools, such as transcranial alternating current stimulation (tACS), now provide the unique opportunity to selectively entrain the low or high frequency component and study subsequent effects on CFC. Here, we demonstrate the differential modulation of CFC during selective entrainment of alpha or gamma oscillations. Our results reveal that entrainment of the low frequency component increased PAC, where gamma power became preferentially locked to the trough of the alpha oscillation, while gamma-band entrainment reduced alpha power through enhanced AECs. These results provide causal evidence for the functional role of coupled alpha and gamma oscillations for visual processing.', u'Visualizing read alignments is the most effective way to validate candidate SVs with existing data. We present svviz, a sequencing read visualizer for structural variants (SVs) that sorts and displays only reads relevant to a candidate SV. svviz works by searching input bam(s) for potentially relevant reads, realigning them against the inferred sequence of the putative variant allele as well as the reference allele, and identifying reads that match one allele better than the other. Reads are assigned to the proper allele based on alignment score, read pair orientation and insert size. Separate views of the two alleles are then displayed in a scrollable web browser view, enabling a more intuitive visualization of each allele, compared to the single reference genome-based view common to most current read browsers. The web view facilitates examining the evidence for or against a putative variant, estimating zygosity, visualizing affected genomic annotations, and manual refinement of breakpoints. An optional command-line-only interface allows summary statistics and graphics to be exported directly to standard graphics file formats. svviz is open source and freely available from github, and requires as input only structural variant coordinates (called using any other software package), reads in bam format, and a reference genome. Reads from any high-throughput sequencing platform are supported, including Illumina short-read, mate-pair, synthetic long-read (assembled), Pacific Biosciences, and Oxford Nanopore. svviz is open source and freely available from https://github.com/svviz/svviz.', u'The importance of the context of interactions in the proteins mutated in cancer is long known. However, our knowledge on how mutations affecting to protein-protein interactions (PPIs) are related to cancer occurrence and progression is still poor. Here, we extracted the missense somatic mutations from 5920 cancer patients of 33 different cancer types, taken from the International Cancer Genome Consortium (ICGC) and The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), and mapped them onto a structurally resolved interactome, which integrates three-dimensional atomic-level models of domain-domain interactions with experimentally determined PPIs, involving a total of 7580 unique interacting domains that participate in 13160 interactions connecting 4996 proteins. We observed that somatic nonsynonymous mutations tend to concentrate in ordered regions of the affected proteins and, within these, they have a clear preference for the interacting interfaces. Also, we have identified more than 250 interacting interfaces candidate to drive cancer. Examples demonstrate how mutations in the interacting interfaces are strongly associated with patient survival time, while similar mutations in other areas of the same proteins lack this association. Our results suggest that the perturbation caused by cancer mutations in protein interactions is an important factor in explaining the heterogeneity between cancer patients.', u'We present an open-source visual-analytics web platform, Ginkgo (http://qb.cshl.edu/ginkgo), for the interactive analysis and quality assessment of single-cell copy-number alterations. Ginkgo automatically constructs copy-number profiles of individual cells from mapped reads, as well as constructing phylogenetic trees of related cells. We validate Ginkgo by reproducing the results of five major studies and examine the data characteristics of three commonly used single-cell amplification techniques to conclude DOP-PCR to be the most consistent for CNV analysis.', u'Our group has published a study on induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) reprogramming (Rais et al. Nature 20131) that reached the following conclusions: a) Mbd3/NuRD is a repressor of inducing na\xefve pluripotency from mouse Epiblast stem cells (EpiSCs), primordial germ cells (PGCs), murine somatic cells and human secondary fibroblasts; b) Up to 100% iPSC formation efficiency can be achieved via optimized Mbd3/NuRD depletion, in concert with optimized OKSM delivery and na\xefve pluripotency conditions (2i supplement applied only after 48 hours, human LIF, hypoxia and Vitamin C containing Knockout serum replacement)1. This represented the first proof for deterministic/near-deterministic iPSC reprogramming, and highlighted a previously unappreciated role for Mbd3/NuRD in hampering the re-establishment of pluripotency. Recent reports have seemingly provided contradictory results and attempted to dispute our iPSC efficiency quantifications and/or the role of Mbd3/NuRD in blocking reprogramming2,3. Here we provide a detailed response to these reports based on extended discussions and providing new data. The synthesis presented herein disagrees with claims made by Silva, Hendrich, Bertone and colleagues2,3, and reconfirms that Mbd3/NuRD is a major pathway that inhibits the maintenance and induction of pluripotency1. Further, we foresee that its controlled manipulation is likely to become an integral pathway for inducing and maintaining na\xefve pluripotency in a variety of species.', u'Statistical factor analysis methods have previously been used to remove noise components from high dimensional data prior to genetic association mapping, and in a guided fashion to summarise biologically relevant sources of variation. Here we show how the derived factors summarising pathway expression can be used to analyse the relationships between expression, heritability and ageing. We used skin gene expression data from 647 twins from the MuTHER Consortium and applied factor analysis to concisely summarise patterns of gene expression, both to remove broad confounding influences and to produce concise pathway-level phenotypes. We derived 930 "pathway phenotypes" which summarised patterns of variation across 186 KEGG pathways (five phenotypes per pathway). We identified 69 significant associations of age with phenotype from 57 distinct KEGG pathways at a stringent Bonferroni threshold (P<5.38E-5). These phenotypes are more heritable (h^2=0.32) than gene expression levels.  On average, expression levels of 16% of genes within these pathways are associated with age. Several significant pathways relate to metabolising sugars and fatty acids, others with insulin signalling.  We have demonstrated that factor analysis methods combined with biological knowledge can produce more reliable phenotypes with less stochastic noise than the individual gene expression levels, which increases our power to discover biologically relevant associations. These phenotypes could also be applied to discover associations with other environmental factors.', u'The ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS) directs programmed destruction of key cellular regulators via post-translational modification of its targets with polyubiquitin chains. These commonly contain Lysine 48 (K48)-directed ubiquitin linkages, but chains containing atypical Lysine 11 (K11) linkages also target substrates to the proteasome, for example to regulate cell cycle progression. A single ubiquitin ligase, the Anaphase Promoting Complex/Cyclosome (APC/C), controls mitotic exit. In higher eukaryotes, the APC/C works with the E2 enzyme UBE2S to assemble K11 linkages in cells released from mitotic arrest, and these are proposed to constitute an improved proteolytic signal during exit from mitosis. We have tested this idea by correlating quantitative measures of in vivo K11-specific ubiquitination of individual substrates, including Aurora kinases, with their degradation kinetics tracked at the single cell level. We report that all anaphase substrates tested by this methodology are stabilized by depletion of K11 linkages via UBE2S knockdown, even if the same substrates are significantly modified with K48-linked polyubiquitin. Specific examination of substrates depending on the APC/C coactivator Cdh1 for their degradation revealed Cdh1-dependent enrichment of K11 chains on these substrates, while other ubiquitin linkages on the same substrates added during mitotic exit were Cdh1-independent. Therefore we show that K11 linkages provide the APC/C with a means to regulate the rate of substrate degradation in a co-activator-specified manner.', u"In order to characterize the dynamics of adaptation, it is important to be able to quantify how a population's mean fitness changes over time.  Such measurements are especially important in experimental studies of evolution using microbes.  The Long-Term Evolution Experiment (LTEE) with Escherichia coli provides one such system in which mean fitness has been measured by competing derived and ancestral populations.  The traditional method used to measure fitness in the LTEE and many similar experiments, though, is subject to a potential limitation.  As the relative fitness of the two competitors diverges, the measurement error increases because the less-fit population becomes increasingly small and cannot be enumerated as precisely.  Here, we present and employ two alternatives to the traditional method.  One is based on reducing the fitness differential between the competitors by using a common reference competitor from an intermediate generation that has intermediate fitness; the other alternative increases the initial population size of the less-fit, ancestral competitor.  We performed a total of 480 competitions to compare the statistical properties of estimates obtained using these alternative methods with those obtained using the traditional method for samples taken over 50,000 generations from one of the LTEE populations.  On balance, neither alternative method yielded measurements that were more precise than the traditional method.", u'Graphical representation of DNA sequences is one of the most popular techniques of alignment-free sequence comparison. In this article, we propose a new method for extracting features of DNA sequences represented by binary images, in which we estimate the similarity between DNA sequences by the frequency histograms of local bitmap patterns on the images. Our method has linear time complexity for the length of DNA sequences, which is practical even for comparison of long sequences. We tested five distance measures to estimate sequence similarities and found that histogram intersection and Manhattan distance are most appropriate for our method among them.', u'Mechanisms that coordinate the growth of different tissues during development are essential for producing adult animals with proper organ proportion. Here we describe a pathway through which tissues communicate with each other to coordinate growth. During Drosophila melanogaster larval development, damage to imaginal discs activates a regeneration checkpoint that produces both a delay in developmental timing and slows the growth of undamaged tissues, coordinating regeneration of the damaged tissue with developmental progression and overall growth. Both developmental delay and growth control are mediated by secretion of the insulin/relaxin family peptide Dilp8 from regenerating tissues. Here we demonstrate that Dilp8-dependent growth coordination between regenerating and undamaged tissues, but not developmental delay, requires the activity of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) in the prothoracic gland. NOS limits the growth of undamaged tissues by reducing ecdysone biosynthesis, a requirement for imaginal disc growth during both the regenerative checkpoint and normal development. Therefore, NOS activity in the prothoracic gland translates information about the growth status of individual tissues into coordinated tissue growth through the regulation of endocrine signals.', u'Allelic expression (AE) analysis has become an important tool for integrating genome and transcriptome data to characterize various biological phenomena such as cis-regulatory variation and nonsense-mediated decay. In this paper, we systematically analyze the properties of AE read count data and technical sources of error, such as low-quality or double-counted RNA-seq reads, genotyping errors, allelic mapping bias, and technical covariates due to sample preparation and sequencing, and variation in total read depth. We provide guidelines for correcting and filtering for such errors, and show that the resulting AE data has extremely low technical noise. Finally, we introduce novel software for high-throughput production of AE data from RNA-sequencing data, implemented in the GATK framework. These improved tools and best practices for AE analysis yield higher quality AE data by reducing technical bias. This provides a practical framework for wider adoption of AE analysis by the genomics community.', u'Background: Measures of population-level influenza severity are important for public health planning, but estimates are often based on case-fatality and case-hospitalization risks, which require multiple data sources, are prone to surveillance biases, and are typically unavailable in the early stages of an outbreak. In this study, we develop a severity index based on influenza age dynamics estimated from routine surveillance data that can be used in retrospective and early warning contexts.\n\nMethods and Findings: Our method relies on the observation that age-specific attack rates vary between seasons, so that key features of the age distribution of cases may be used as a marker of severity early in an epidemic. We illustrate our method using weekly outpatient medical claims of influenza-like illness (ILI) in the United States from the 2001 to 2009 and develop a novel population-level influenza severity index based on the relative risk of ILI among working-age adults to that among school-aged children. We validate our ILI index against a benchmark that comprises traditional influenza severity indicators such as viral activity, hospitalizations and deaths using publicly available surveillance data. We find that severe influenza seasons have higher relative rates of ILI among adults than mild seasons. In reference to the benchmark, the ILI index is a robust indicator of severity during the period of peak epidemic growth (87.5% accuracy in retrospective classification), and may have predictive power during the period between Thanksgiving and the winter holidays (57.1% accuracy in early warning). We further apply our approach at the state-level to characterize regional severity patterns across seasons. We hypothesize that our index is a proxy for severity because working-age adults have both pre-existing immunity to influenza and a high number of contacts, infecting them preferentially in severe seasons associated with antigenic changes in circulating influenza viruses. Our analysis is limited by its application to seasonal influenza epidemics and a relatively short study period.\n\nConclusions: Our severity index and research on the link between age dynamics and seasonal influenza severity will enable decision makers to better target public health strategies in severe seasons and improve our knowledge of influenza epidemiology and population impact. These findings demonstrate that routine surveillance data can be translated into operational information for policymakers. Our study also highlights the need for further research on the putative age-related mechanisms of severity in seasonal and pandemic influenza seasons.', u'DNA methylation is thought to be robust to environmental perturbations on a short time scale. Here, we challenge that view by demonstrating that the infection of human dendritic cells (DCs) with a pathogenic bacteria is associated with rapid changes in methylation at thousands of loci. Infection-induced changes in methylation occur primarily at distal enhancer elements, including those associated with the activation of key immune transcription factors and genes involved in the crosstalk between DCs and adaptive immunity. Active demethylation is associated with extensive epigenetic remodeling and is strongly predictive of changes in the expression levels of nearby genes. Collectively, our observations show that rapid changes in methylation play a previously unappreciated role in regulating the transcriptional response of DCs to infection.', u'Smooth endoplasmic reticulum (SER) forms a membranous network that extends throughout neurons. SER regulates intracellular calcium and the posttranslational modification and trafficking of membrane and proteins.  As the structure of dendritic SER shifts from a tubular to a more complex, branched form, the movement of membrane cargo slows and delivery to nearby spines increases. Here we discovered changes in the structural complexity of SER that have important functional implications during long-term potentiation (LTP) in adult rat hippocampus. By 2 hours after the induction of LTP with theta-burst stimulation, synapse enlargement was greatest on spines that contained SER. More spines had an elaborate spine apparatus than a simple tubule of SER. The SER in dendritic shafts became more complex beneath spines with both polyribosomes and SER, and less complex along aspiny dendritic regions. The findings suggest that local changes in dendritic SER support enhanced growth of specific synapses during LTP.', u'We present a new statistical test of association between a trait (either quantitative or binary) and genetic markers, which we theoretically and practically prove to be robust to arbitrarily complex population structure. The statistical test involves a set of parameters that can be directly estimated from large-scale genotyping data, such as that measured in genome-wide associations studies (GWAS).  We also derive a new set of methodologies, called a genotype-conditional association test (GCAT), shown to provide accurate association tests in populations with complex structures, manifested in both the genetic and environmental contributions to the trait.  We demonstrate the proposed method on a large simulation study and on the Northern Finland Birth Cohort study.  In the Finland study, we identify several new significant loci that other methods do not detect. Our proposed framework provides a substantially different approach to the problem from existing methods. We provide some discussion on its similarities and differences with the linear mixed model and principal component approaches.', u'The clustering of individuals that results from limited dispersal is a double-edged sword: while it allows for local interactions to be mostly among related individuals, it also results in increased local competition. Here I show that, because they mitigate local competition, fitness costs such as reduced fecundity or reduced survival are less costly in spatially structured environments than in non spatial settings. I first present a simple demographic example to illustrate how spatial structure weakens selection against fitness costs. Then, I illustrate the importance of disentangling the evolution of a trait from the evolution of potential associated costs, using an example taken from a recent study investigating the effect of spatial structure on the evolution of host defense. In this example indeed, the differences between spatial and non-spatial selection gradients are due to differences in the fitness costs, thereby undermining interpretations of the results made in terms of the trait only. This illustrates the need to consider fitness costs as proper traits in both theoretical and empirical studies.', u'Polygenic risk scores have shown great promise in predicting complex disease risk, and will become more accurate as training sample sizes increase.  The standard approach for calculating risk scores involves LD-pruning markers and applying a P-value threshold to association statistics, but this discards information and may reduce predictive accuracy. We introduce a new method, LDpred, which infers the posterior mean causal effect size of each marker using a prior on effect sizes and LD information from an external reference panel. Theory and simulations show that LDpred outperforms the pruning/thresholding approach, particularly at large sample sizes. Accordingly, prediction R2 increased from 20.1% to 25.3% in a large schizophrenia data set and from 9.8% to 12.0% in a large multiple sclerosis data set. A similar relative improvement in accuracy was observed for three additional large disease data sets and when predicting in non-European schizophrenia samples. The advantage of LDpred over existing methods will grow as sample sizes increase.', u'Genomes must balance active suppression of transposable elements (TEs) with the need to maintain gene expression. In Arabidopsis, euchromatic TEs are targeted by RNA-directed DNA methylation (RdDM). Conversely, active DNA demethylation prevents accumulation of methylation at genes proximal to these TEs. It is unknown how a cellular balance between methylation and demethylation activities is achieved. Here we show that both RdDM and DNA demethylation are highly active at a TE proximal to the major DNA demethylase gene ROS1. Unexpectedly, and in contrast to most other genomic targets, expression of ROS1 is promoted by DNA methylation and antagonized by DNA demethylation. We demonstrate that inducing methylation of the ROS1 proximal region is sufficient to restore ROS1 expression in an RdDM mutant. Additionally, methylation-sensitive expression of ROS1 is conserved in other species, suggesting it is adaptive. We propose that the ROS1 locus functions as an epigenetic rheostat, tuning the level of demethylase activity in response to methylation alterations, thus ensuring epigenomic stability.', u'Epistasis is a key concept in the theory of adaptation. Indicators of epistasis are of interest for large system where systematic fitness measurements may not be possible. Some recent approaches depend on information theory. We show that considering shared entropy for pairs of loci can be misleading. The reason is that shared entropy does not imply epistasis for the pair. This observation holds true also in the absence of higher order epistasis. We discuss a refined approach for identifying pairwise interactions using entropy.', u'Summary: Large resequencing projects require a significant amount of storage for raw sequences, as well as alignment files. Since the raw sequences are redundant once the alignment has been generated, it is possible to keep only the alignment files. We present BamHash, a checksum based method to ensure that the read pairs in FASTQ files match exactly the read pairs stored in BAM files, regardless of the ordering of reads. BamHash can be used to verify the integrity of the files stored and discover any discrepancies. Thus, BamHash can be used to determine if it is safe to delete the FASTQ files storing raw sequencing reads after alignment, without the loss of data. Availability and \n\nImplementation: The software is implemented in C++, GPL licensed and available at https://github.com/DecodeGenetics/BamHash\n\nContact pmelsted@hi.is', u'DNA methylation is a key regulatory mechanism in mammalian genomes. Despite the increasing knowledge about this epigenetic modification, the understanding of human epigenome evolution is in its infancy. We used whole genome bisulfite sequencing to study DNA methylation and nucleotide divergence between human and great apes. We identified 360 and 210 differentially hypo- and hypermethylated regions (DMRs) in humans compared to non-human primates and estimated that 20% and 36% of these regions, respectively, were detectable throughout several human tissues. Human   DMRs were enriched for specific histone modifications and contrary to expectations, the majority were located distal to transcription start sites, highlighting the importance of regions outside the direct regulatory context. We also found a significant excess of endogenous retrovirus elements in human-specific hypomethylated regions suggesting their association with local epigenetic changes. \n\nWe also reported for the first time a close interplay between inter-species genetic and epigenetic variation in regions of incomplete lineage sorting, transcription factor binding sites and human differentially hypermethylated regions. Specifically, we observed an excess of human-specific substitutions in transcription factor binding sites located within human DMRs, suggesting that alteration of regulatory motifs underlies some human-specific methylation patterns. We also found that the acquisition of DNA hypermethylation in the human lineage is frequently coupled with a rapid evolution at nucleotide level in the neighborhood of these CpG sites. Taken together, our results reveal new insights into the mechanistic basis of human-specific DNA methylation patterns and the interpretation of inter-species non-coding variation.', u'Despite their critical importance in maintaining the integrity of all cellular pathways, the specific role of mutations on protein-protein interaction (PPI) interfaces as cancer drivers, though known for some specific examples, has not been systematically studied. We analyzed missense somatic mutations in a pan-cancer cohort of 5,989 tumors from 23 projects of The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) for enrichment on PPI interfaces using e-Driver, an algorithm to analyze the mutation pattern of specific protein regions such as PPI interfaces. We identified 128 PPI interfaces enriched in somatic cancer mutations. Our results support the notion that many mutations in well-established cancer driver genes, particularly those in critical network positions, act by altering PPI interfaces. Finally, focusing on individual interfaces we are also able to show how tumors driven by the same gene can have different behaviors, including patient outcomes, depending on whether specific interfaces are mutated or not.', u'Documenting the full extent of gene flow during speciation poses a challenge, as species ranges change over time and current rates of hybridisation might not reflect historical trends. Theoretical work has emphasized the potential for speciation in the face of ongoing hybridisation, and the genetic mechanisms that might facilitate this process. However, elucidating how the rate of gene flow between species may have changed over time has proved difficult. Here we use Approximate Bayesian Computation (ABC) to fit a model of speciation between the Neotropical butterflies Heliconius melpomene and Heliconius cydno. These species are ecologically divergent, rarely hybridize and display female hybrid sterility. Nevertheless, previous genomic studies suggests pervasive gene flow between them, extending deep into their past, and potentially throughout the speciation process. By modelling the rates of gene flow during early and later stages of speciation, we find that these species have been hybridising for hundreds of thousands of years, but have not done so continuously since their initial divergence. Instead, it appears that gene flow was rare or absent for as long as a million years in the early stages of speciation. Therefore, by dissecting the timing of gene flow between these species, we are able to reject a scenario of purely sympatric speciation in the face of continuous gene flow. We suggest that the period of minimal contact early in speciation may have allowed for the accumulation of genomic changes that later enabled these species to remain distinct despite a dramatic increase in the rate of hybridisation.', u'The cAMP dependent protein kinase (PKA) signaling is a broad specificity pathway that plays important roles in the transduction of environmental signals triggering precise physiological responses. cAMP-signal transduction specificity is achieved and controlled at several levels. The Saccharomyces cereviciae PKA holoenzyme contains two catalytic subunits encoded by TPK1, TPK2 and TPK3 genes, and two regulatory subunits encoded by BCY1 gene. In this work we studied the activity of these gene promoters using a reporter-synthetic genetic array screen, with the goal of identifying novel regulators of PKA subunits expression.  Gene Ontology (GO) analysis of the identified regulators showed that they were enriched in the category of transcriptional regulators, but also in less expected categories such as lipid and phosphate metabolism. The pathways identified show simultaneous regulation of all four promoters or only specifically of some of them. Further characterization of these pathways effects on promoter activity and mRNA levels pointed to inositol, inositol polyphosphates, choline and phosphate as novel upstream signals that regulate transcription of PKA subunit genes. In addition, within each category there are genes that regulate only one of the promoters and genes that regulate more than one of them at the same time. These results support the role of transcription regulation of each PKA subunit in cAMP specificity signaling. Interestingly, known targets of PKA phosphorylation are associated with the identified pathways, opening the possibility of a reciprocal regulation, PKA would be coordinating different metabolic pathways and these processes would in turn, regulate expression of the kinase subunits', u'We have fully sequenced the genome of an individual from the region of Saudi Arabia.   In order to facilitate comparative analysis, an initial characterization of the new genome was undertaken based on single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP).  The SNP data having associated population statistics, essentially the HapMap, served to identify features that were rare by comparison.  Methods were developed and applied to tag observed SNPs as different and were extended to identify strings or clusters of difference in the individual relative to comparison populations to effectively increase the significance over single SNP comparison.  Difference strings identified in the individual relative to each comparison population showed a genome location pattern with various levels of overlap between the comparison populations.  The SNP frequencies from the HapMap population samples Ceu and Yri showed a difference inversion relative to the sample genome.  The total SNP difference count was greatest between the individual and the Yri population sample while the number and total span of SNP difference clusters was greatest in comparison with the Ceu population sample.  The final pattern of difference clusters has served to define distinctive features in the individual genome toward preliminary characterization.', u'Much recent debate has focused on the role of rare variants in complex phenotypes. However, it is well known that rare alleles can only contribute a substantial proportion of the phenotypic variance when they have much larger effect sizes than common variants, which is most easily explained by natural selection constraining trait-altering alleles to low frequency. It is also plausible that demographic events will influence the genetic architecture of complex traits. Unfortunately, most rare variant association tests do not explicitly model natural selection or non-equilibrium demography. Here, we develop a novel evolutionary model of complex traits. We perform numerical calculations and simulate phenotypes under this model using inferred human demographic and selection parameters. We show that rare variants only contribute substantially to complex traits under very strong assumptions about the relationship between effect size and selection strength.  We then assess the performance of state-of-the-art rare variant tests using our simulations across a broad range of model parameters.  Counterintuitively, we find that statistical power is lowest when rare variants make the greatest contribution to the additive variance, and that power is substantially lower under our model than previously studied models. While many empirical studies have attempted to identify causal loci using rare variant association methods, few have reported novel associations.  Some authors have interpreted this to mean that rare variants contribute little to heritability, but our results show that an alternative explanation is that rare variant tests have less power than previously estimated.', u'The brown rat, Rattus norvegicus, is both a notorious pest and a\nfrequently used model in biomedical research. By analysing genome\nsequences of 12 wild-caught brown rats from their ancestral range in\nNE China, along with the sequence of a black rat, R. rattus, we\ninvestigate the selective and demographic forces shaping variation in\nthe genome. We estimate that the recent effective population size\n(N_e) of this species = 1.24 x 10^5, based on silent site\ndiversity. We compare patterns of diversity in these genomes with\npatterns in multiple genome sequences of the house mouse Mus\nmusculus castaneus), which has a much larger N_e. This reveals an\nimportant role for variation in the strength of genetic drift in\nmammalian genome evolution. By a Pairwise Sequentially Markovian\nCoalescent (PSMC) analysis of demographic history, we infer that there\nhas been a recent population size bottleneck in wild rats, which we\ndate to approximately 20,000 years ago. Consistent with this, wild rat\npopulations have experienced an increased flux of mildly deleterious\nmutations, which segregate at higher frequencies in protein-coding\ngenes and conserved noncoding elements (CNEs). This leads to negative\nestimates of the rate of adaptive evolution (alpha) in proteins and\nCNEs, a result which we discuss in relation to the strongly positive\nestimates observed in wild house mice. As a consequence of the\npopulation bottleneck, wild rats also show a markedly slower decay of\nlinkage disequilibrium with physical distance than wild house mice.', u'In developing embryos of eukaryotes, varying concentrations and/or duration of exposure to morphogens induce and repress transcription factors (TFs) in a regular order, thereby acting as signals for cell differentiation. I present a chemical thermodynamic model for the formation and degradation of the morphogen Sonic hedgehog (Shh) and the major TFs involved in dorsal-ventral patterning of the vertebrate neural tube. This two-stage model first considers introduction of Shh into a chemically defined (oxidizing) environment. As the system is driven away from metastable equilibrium, the TFs progressively become more stable than Shh, as indicated by comparison of the calculated overall energies of formation (chemical affinity). In the second stage, a gradual return to metastable equilibrium with Shh drives transitions in the relative stabilities of the TFs that follow the experimental patterns of TF expression. At the intracellular level, the major proteins in the signal transduction network show a metastability progression among reactions of Shh and its cell-surface receptor and the intracellular Gli proteins that act as activators and repressors of transcription. If the endocytosis and degradation of receptor-ligand complexes are coupled to localized protein translation, the consequent thermodynamic constraints may represent a high-level source of specificity that coexists with molecular mechanisms of signal transduction.', u'STR, short trandem repeats, is well known as a type of powerful genetic marker and widely used in studying human population genetics. Compared with the conventional genetic markers, the mutation rate of STR is higher. Additionally, the mutations of STR loci do not lead to genetic inconsistencies between the genotypes of parents and children; therefore, the analysis of STR mutation is more suited to assess the population mutation. In this study, we focused on 15 autosomal STR loci (D8S1179, D21S11, D7S820, CSF1PO, D3S1358, TH01, D13S317, D16S539, D2S1338, D19S433, vWA, TPOX, D18S51, D5S818, FGA). DNA samples from a total of 42416 unrelated healthy individuals (19037 trios) from the population of Mainland China collected between Jan 2012 and May 2014 were successfully investigated. In our study, the allele frequencies, paternal mutation rates, maternal mutation rates and average mutation rates were detected in the 15 STR loci. Furthermore, we also investigated the relationship between paternal ages, maternal ages, pregnant time, area and average mutation rate. We found that paternal mutation rate is higher than maternal mutation rate and the paternal, maternal, and average mutation rates have a positive correlation with paternal ages, maternal ages and times respectively. Additionally, the average mutation rates of coastal areas are higher than that of inland areas. Overall, these results suggest that the 15 autosomal STR loci can provide highly informative polymorphic data for population genetic assessment in Mainland China, as well as confirm and extend the application of STR analysis in population genetics.', u'Complex networks of regulatory interactions orchestrate developmental processes in multicellular organisms. Such a complex internal structure intrinsically constrains cellular behavior allowing only a reduced set of attainable and observable cellular states or cell types. Thus, a multicellular system undergoes cell fate decisions in a robust manner in the course of its normal development. The epigenetic landscape (EL) model originally proposed by C.H. Waddington was an early attempt to integrate these processes in a universal conceptual model of development. Since then, a wealth of experimental data has accumulated, the general mechanisms of gene regulation have been uncovered, and the placement of specific molecular components within modular gene regulatory networks (GRN) has become a common practice. This has motivated the development of mathematical and computational models inspired by the EL aiming to integrate molecular data and gain a better understanding of development, and hopefully predict cell differentiation and reprogramming events. Both deterministic and stochastic dynamical models have been used to described cell state transitions. In this review, we describe recent EL models, emphasising that the construction of an explicit landscape from a GRN is not the only way to implement theoretical models consistent with the conceptual basis of the EL. Moreover, models based on the EL have been shown to be useful in the study of morphogenic processes and not just cell differentiation. Here we describe the distinct approaches, comparing their strengths and weaknesses and the kind of biological questions that they have been able to address. We also point to challenges ahead.', u'Tandem repeats (TR) are stretches of DNA that are highly variable in length and mutate\nrapidly, and thus an important source of genetic variation. This variation is highly informative\nfor population and conservation genetics, and has also been associated with several\npathological conditions and with gene expression regulation. However, genome-wide surveys\nof TR variation have been scarce due to the technical difficulties derived from short-read\ntechnology.\nHere, we explored the genome-wide diversity of TRs in a panel of 83 human and nonhuman\ngreat ape genomes, and their impact on gene expression evolution. We found that\npopulations and species diversity patterns can be efficiently captured with short TRs (repeat\nunit length 1-5 base pairs) with potential applications in conservation genetics. We also\nexamined the potential evolutionary role of TRs in gene expression differences between\nhumans and primates by using 30,275 larger TRs (repeat unit length 2-50 base pairs). About\none third of the 13,035 one-to-one orthologous genes contained TRs within 5 kilobase pairs\nof their transcription start site, and had higher expression divergence than genes without\nsuch TRs. The same observation held for genes with repeats in their 3\u2032 untranslated region,\nin introns, and in exons. Using our polymorphism data for the shortest TRs, we found that\ngenes with polymorphic repeats in their promoters showed higher expression divergence in\nhumans and chimpanzees compared to genes with fixed or no TRs in the promoters. Our\nfindings highlight the potential contribution of TRs to recent human evolution through gene\nregulation.', u"The molecular reaction networks that coordinate the response of an organism to changing environmental conditions are central for survival and reproduction. Escherchia coli employs an accurate and flexible signalling system that is capable of processing ambient nitrogen availability rapidly and with high accuracy. Carefully orchestrated post-translational modifications of PII and the glutamine synthetase allow E. coli to trace nitrogen availability in a continuous, decidedly non-digital fashion. We measure the dynamic proteomic and metabolomic responses to trace the analog computations, and use an information theoretical framework to characterize the information capacity of E. coli's nitrogen sensing network: we find that this system can transmit up to 9bits of information about the nitrogen state. This allows cells to respond rapidly and accurately even to small differences in metabolite concentrations.", u'Objective. Brain-machine interfaces (BMIs) seek to enable people with movement disabilities to directly control prosthetic systems with their neural activity. Current high performance BMIs are driven by action potentials (spikes), but access to this signal often diminishes as sensors degrade over time. Decoding local field potentials (LFPs) as an alternative or complementary BMI control signal may improve performance when there is a paucity of spike signals. To date only a small handful of LFP decoding methods have been tested online; there remains a need to test different LFP decoding approaches and improve LFP-driven performance. There has also not been a reported demonstration of a hybrid BMI that decodes kinematics from both LFP and spikes. Here we first evaluate a BMI driven by the local motor potential (LMP), a low-pass filtered time-domain LFP amplitude feature. We then combine decoding of both LMP and spikes to implement a hybrid BMI. Approach. Spikes and LFP were recorded from two macaques implanted with multielectrode arrays in primary and premotor cortex while they performed a reaching task. We then evaluated closed-loop BMI control using biomimetic decoders driven by LMP, spikes, or both signals together. Main Results. LMP decoding enabled quick and accurate cursor control which surpassed previously reported LFP BMI performance. Hybrid decoding of both spikes and LMP improved performance when spikes signal quality was mediocre to poor. Significance. These findings show that LMP is an effective BMI control signal which requires minimal power to extract and can substitute for or augment impoverished spikes signals. Use of this signal may lengthen the useful lifespan of BMIs and is therefore an important step towards clinically viable BMIs.', u'Background: The detailed analysis of transcriptional regulation is crucially important for understanding biological processes. The gap gene network in Drosophila attracts large interest among researches studying mechanisms of transcriptional regulation. It implements the most upstream regulatory layer of the segmentation gene network. The knowledge of molecular mechanisms\ninvolved in gap gene regulation is far less complete than that of genetics of the system. Mathematical modeling goes beyond insights gained by genetics and molecular approaches. It allows us to reconstruct wild-type gene expression patterns in silico, infer underlying regulatory mechanism and prove its sufficiency.\nResults: We developed a new model that provides a dynamical description of gap gene regulatory systems, using detailed DNA-based information, as well as spatial\ntranscription factor concentration data at varying time points. We showed that this model correctly reproduces gap gene expression patterns in wild type embryos and is able to predict gap expression patterns in Kr mutants and four reporter constructs. We used four-fold cross validation test and fitting to random dataset to validate the model and proof its sufficiency in data description. The identifiability analysis showed that most model parameters are well identifiable. We reconstructed the gap gene network topology and studied the impact of individual transcription factor binding sites on the model output. We measured this impact by calculating the site regulatory weight as a normalized difference between the residual sum of squares error for the set of all annotated sites and the set, from which the site of interest was left out.\nConclusions: The reconstructed topology of the gap gene network is in agreement with previous modeling results and data from literature. We showed that 1) the regulatory weights of transcription factor binding sites show very weak correlation with their PWM score; 2) sites with low regulatory weight are important for the model output; 3) functional important sites are not exclusively located in cis-regulatory elements, but are rather dispersed through regulatory region. It is of importance that some of the sites with high functional impact in hb, Kr and kni regulatory regions coincide with strong sites annotated and verified in Dnase I footprint assays.\nKeywords: transcription; thermodynamics; reaction-diffusion; drosophila', u'The nascent stages of speciation start with the emergence of sexual isolation. Understanding how reproductive barriers influence this evolutionary process is an ongoing effort. We present here a study of Drosophila melanogaster populations from the southeast United States and Caribbean islands undergoing incipient sexual isolation. The existence of premating reproductive barriers have been previously established, but they do not fully account for the degree of isolation present. To assess the influence of postmating barriers, we investigated putative postmating barriers of female remating and egg laying behavior, as well as hatchability of eggs laid and female longevity after mating. While we did not find any effects in female remating or egg laying, we did observe lower hatchability in the central region of our geographical spread as well as shorten female life spans after mating to genetically different males in females originating from the northern- and southernmost locations of those surveyed. These results serve as evidence that long-term consequences after mating such as the fitness of offspring and shortened lifespan have a stronger effect than short-term postmating behaviors.', u'A nanopore-based approach to peptide sequencing without labels or immobilization is considered. It is based on a tandem cell (RSC Adv., 2015, 5, 167-171) with the structure [cis1, upstream pore (UNP), trans1/cis2, downstream pore (DNP), trans2]. An amino or carboxyl exopeptidase attached to the downstream side of UNP cleaves successive leading residues in a peptide threading from cis1 through UNP. A cleaved residue translocates to and through DNP where it is identified. A Fokker-Planck model is used to compute translocation statistics for each amino acid type. Multiple discriminators, including a variant of the current blockade level and translocation times through trans1/cis2 and DNP, identify a residue. Calculations show the 20 amino acids to be grouped by charge (+, -, neutral) and ordered within each group (which makes error correction easier). The minimum cleaving interval required of the exopeptidase, the sample size (number of copies of the peptide to sequence or runs with one copy) to identify a residue with a given confidence level, and confidence levels for a given sample size are calculated. The results suggest that if the exopeptidase cleaves each and every residue and does so in a reasonable time, peptide sequencing with acceptable (and correctable) errors may be feasible. If validated experimentally the proposed device could be an alternative to mass spectrometry and gel electrophoresis. Implementation-related issues are discussed.', u'Alternative splicing plays an essential role in many cellular processes and bears major relevance in the understanding of multiple diseases, including cancer. High-throughput RNA sequencing allows genome-wide analyses of splicing across multiple conditions. However, the increasing number of available datasets represents a major challenge in terms of computation time and storage requirements. We describe SUPPA, a computational tool to calculate relative inclusion values of alternative splicing events, exploiting fast transcript quantification. SUPPA accuracy is comparable and sometimes superior to standard methods using simulated as well as real RNA sequencing data compared to experimentally validated events. We assess the variability in terms of the choice of annotation and provide evidence that using complete transcripts rather than more transcripts per gene provides better estimates. Moreover, SUPPA coupled with de novo transcript reconstruction methods does not achieve accuracies as high as using quantification of known transcripts, but remains comparable to existing methods. Finally, we show that SUPPA is more than 1000 times faster than standard methods. Coupled with fast transcript quantification, SUPPA provides inclusion values at a much higher speed than existing methods without compromising accuracy, thereby facilitating the systematic splicing analysis of large datasets with limited computational resources. The software is implemented in Python 2.7 and is available under the MIT license at https://bitbucket.org/regulatorygenomicsupf/suppa', u"We introduce Phen-Gen, a method which combines patient's disease symptoms and sequencing data with prior domain knowledge to identify the causative gene(s) for rare disorders. Simulations reveal that the causal variant is ranked first in 88% cases when it is coding; which is 52% advantage over a genotype-only approach and outperforms existing methods by 13-58%. If disease etiology is unknown, the causal variant is assigned top-rank in 71% of simulations.", u'In cancer genomics, frequent recurrence of mutations in independent tumor samples is a strong indication of functional impact. However, rare functional mutations can escape detection by recurrence analysis for lack of statistical power. We address this problem by extending the notion of recurrence of mutations from single genes to gene families that share homologous protein domains. In addition to lowering the threshold of detection, this sharpens the functional interpretation of the impact of mutations, as protein domains more succinctly embody function than entire genes. Mapping mutations in 22 different tumor types to equivalent positions in multiple sequence alignments of protein domains, we confirm well-known functional mutation hotspots and make two types of discoveries: 1) identification and functional interpretation of uncharacterized rare variants in one gene that are equivalent to well-characterized mutations in canonical cancer genes, such as uncharacterized ERBB4 (S303F) mutations that are analogous to canonical ERRB2 (S310F) mutations in the furin-like domain, and 2) detection of previously unknown mutation hotspots with novel functional implications. With the rapid expansion of cancer genomics projects, protein domain hotspot analysis is likely to provide many more leads linking mutations in proteins to the cancer phenotype.', u'Describing the process of spontaneous mutation is fundamental for understanding the genetic basis of disease, the threat posed by declining population size in conservation biology, and in much evolutionary biology. However, directly studying spontaneous mutation is difficult because of the rarity of de novo mutations. Mutation accumulation (MA) experiments overcome this by allowing mutations to build up over many generations in the near absence of natural selection. In this study, we sequenced the genomes of 85 MA lines derived from six genetically diverse wild strains of the green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. We identified 6,843 spontaneous mutations, more than any other study of spontaneous mutation. We observed seven-fold variation in the mutation rate among strains and that mutator genotypes arose, increasing the mutation rate dramatically in some replicates. We also found evidence for fine-scale heterogeneity in the mutation rate, driven largely by the sequence flanking mutated sites, and by clusters of multiple mutations at closely linked sites. There was little evidence, however, for mutation rate heterogeneity between chromosomes or over large genomic regions of 200Kbp. Using logistic regression, we generated a predictive model of the mutability of sites based on their genomic properties, including local GC content, gene expression level and local sequence context. Our model accurately predicted the average mutation rate and natural levels of genetic diversity of sites across the genome. Notably, trinucleotides vary 17-fold in rate between the most mutable and least mutable sites. Our results uncover a rich heterogeneity in the process of spontaneous mutation both among individuals and across the genome.', u'Ketamine produces schizophrenia-like behavioral phenotypes in healthy people.  Prolonged ketamine effects and exacerbation of symptoms were observed in schizophrenia patients after administration of ketamine.  More recently, ketamine has been used as a potent antidepressant to treat patients with major depression.  The genes and neurons that regulate behavioral responses to ketamine, however, remain poorly understood.  Our previous studies found that Sp4 hypomorphic mice displayed several behavioral phenotypes relevant to psychiatric disorders, consistent with human SP4 gene associations with schizophrenia, bipolar, and major depression.  Among those behavioral phenotypes, hypersensitivity to ketamine-induced hyperlocomotion has been observed in Sp4 hypomorphic mice.  Here, we report differential genetic restoration of Sp4 expression in forebrain excitatory neurons or GABAergic neurons in Sp4 hypomorphic mice and the effects of these restorations on different behavioral phenotypes.  Restoration of Sp4 in forebrain excitatory neurons did not rescue deficient sensorimotor gating, fear learning, or ketamine-induced hyperlocomotion.  Restoration of Sp4 in forebrain GABAergic neurons, however, rescued ketamine-induced hyperlocomotion, but did not rescue deficient sensorimotor gating or fear learning.   Our studies suggest that the Sp4 gene in forebrain GABAergic neurons plays an essential role in regulating some behavioral responses to ketamine.', u'Adaptation lies at the heart of Darwinian evolution. Accordingly, numerous studies have tried to provide a formal framework for the description of the adaptive process. Out of these, two complementary modelling approaches have emerged: While so-called adaptive-walk models consider adaptation from the successive fixation of de-novo mutations only, quantitative genetic models assume that adaptation proceeds exclusively from pre-existing standing genetic variation. The latter approach, however, has focused on short-term evolution of population means and variances rather than on the statistical properties of adaptive substitutions.\nOur aim is to combine these two approaches by describing the ecological and genetic factors that determine the genetic basis of adaptation from standing genetic variation in terms of the effect-size distribution of individual alleles. Specifically, we consider the evolution of a quantitative trait to a gradually changing environment.\nBy means of analytical approximations, we derive the distribution of adaptive substitutions from standing genetic variation, that is, the distribution of\nthe phenotypic effects of those alleles from the standing variation that become fixed during adaptation. Our results are checked against individual-based simulations.\nWe find that, compared to adaptation from de-novo mutations, (i) adaptation from standing variation proceeds by the fixation of more alleles of small effect; (ii) populations that adapt from standing genetic variation can traverse larger distances in phenotype space and, thus, have a higher potential for adaptation if the rate of environmental change is fast rather than slow.', u'Little is known about the role of immigration in shaping bacterial communities or the factors that may dictate success or failure of colonization by bacteria from regional species pools. To address these knowledge gaps, the influence of bacterial colonization into an ecosystem (activated sludge bioreactor) was measured through a disturbance gradient (successive decreases in the parameter solids retention time) relative to stable operational conditions. Through a DNA sequencing approach, we show that the most abundant bacteria within the immigrant community have a greater probability of colonizing the receiving ecosystem, but mostly as low abundance community members. Only during the disturbance do some of these bacterial populations significantly increase in abundance beyond background levels and in few cases become dominant community members post-disturbance. Two mechanisms facilitate the enhanced enrichment of immigrant populations during disturbance: 1) the availability of resources left unconsumed by established species and 2) the increased availability of niche space for colonizers to establish and displace resident populations. Thus, as a disturbance decreases local diversity, recruitment sites become available to promote colonization. This work advances our understanding of microbial resource management and diversity maintenance in complex ecosystems.', u'In this report we present a multimarker association tool (Flash) based on a novel algorithm to generate haplotypes from raw genotype data.\nIt belongs to the entropy minimization class of methods and is composed of a two stage deterministic - heuristic part and of a optional stochastic optimization. This algorithm is able to scale up well to handle huge datasets with faster performance than the competing technologies such as BEAGLE and MACH\nwhile maintaining a comparable accuracy. A quality assessment of the results is carried out by comparing the switch error. Finally, the\nhaplotypes are used to perform a haplotype-based Genome-wide Association Study (GWAS). The association results are compared with a multimarker and a single SNP association test performed with Plink. \nOur experiments confirm that the multimarker association test can be more powerful than the single SNP one as stated in the literature. Moreover, Flash and Plink show similar results for the multimarker association test but Flash speeds up the computation time of about an order of magnitude using 5 SNP size haplotypes.', u'The UK Government has recently been debating whether or not to legislate to allow mitochondrial replacement (MR) to be used in the clinic. However, we are concerned that some of the science of MR has been misunderstood, or otherwise given only fleeting consideration. We set out our arguments below and offer a way forward to ensure that MR can safely deliver the health benefits it promises for those suffering from mitochondrial-related diseases.', u'The study of ecological networks is severely limited by (i) the difficulty to access data, (ii) the lack of a standardized way to link meta-data with interactions, and (iii) the disparity of formats in which ecological networks themselves are represented. To overcome these limitations, we conceived a data specification for ecological networks. We implemented a database respecting this standard, and released a R package ( `rmangal`) allowing users to programmatically access, curate, and deposit data on ecological interactions. In this article, we show how these tools, in conjunctions with other frameworks for the programmatic manipulation of open ecological data, streamlines the analysis process, and improves eplicability and reproducibility of ecological networks studies.', u'Species showing repeated evolution of similar traits can help illuminate the molecular\nand developmental basis of diverging traits and specific adaptations. Following the last\nglacial period, dwarfism and specialized bottom feeding morphology evolved rapidly in\nseveral landlocked Arctic charr (Salvelinus alpinus) populations in Iceland. To initiate\nstudy of the genetic divergence between small benthic morphs and larger morphs with\nlimnetic morphotype, we conducted an RNA-seq transcriptome analysis of developing\ncharr. We sequenced mRNA from whole embryos at four stages in early development of\ntwo stocks with contrasting morphologies, the small benthic (SB) charr from Lake\nThingvallavatn and Holar aquaculture (AC) charr.\nThe data reveal significant differences in expression of several biological pathways\nduring charr development. There was also an expression difference between SB- and\nAC-charr in genes involved in energy metabolism and blood coagulation genes. We\nconfirmed expression difference of five genes in whole embryos with qPCR, including\nlysozyme and natterin like which was previously identified as a fish-toxin of a lectin\nfamily that may be a putative immunopeptide. We also verified differential expression\nof 7 genes in developing heads, that associated consistently with benthic v.s. limnetic\ncraniofacial morphology (studied in 4 morphs total). Comparison of Single nucleotide\npolymorphism (SNP) frequencies reveals extensive genetic differentiation between the\nSB- and AC-charr (60 fixed SNPs and around 1300 differing by more than 50% in\nfrequency). In SB-charr the high frequency derived SNPs are in genes related to\ntranslation and oxidative processes. Curiously, three derived alleles in the otherwise\nconserved 12s and 16s mitochondrial ribosomal RNA genes are found in benthic charr.\nThe data implicate multiple genes and molecular pathways in divergence of small\nbenthic charr and/or the response of aquaculture charr to domestication. Functional,\ngenetic and population genetic studies on more freshwater and anadromous populations\nare needed to confirm the specific loci and mutations relating to specific ecological or\ndomestication traits in Arctic charr.', u'The ability to sequence mitochondrial genomes quickly and cheaply has led to an explosion in available\nmtDNA data. As a result, an expanding literature is exploring links between mtDNA features and susceptibility to, or prevalence of, a range of diseases. Unfortunately, this great technological power has not always been accompanied by great statistical responsibility. I will focus on one aspect of statistical analysis, multiple hypothesis correction, that is absolutely required, yet often absolutely ignored, for responsible interpretation of this literature. Many existing studies perform comparisons between incidences of a large number (N) of different mtDNA features and a given disease, reporting all those yielding p-values under 0.05 as significant links. But when many comparisons are performed, it is highly likely that several p-values under 0.05 will emerge, by chance, in the absence of any underlying link. A suitable correction (for example, Bonferroni correction, requiring p < 0.05/N) must therefore be employed to avoid reporting false positive results. The absence of such corrections means that there is good reason to believe that many links reported between mtDNA features and various diseases are false; a state of affairs that is profoundly negative both for fundamental biology and for public health. I will show that statistics matching those claimed to illustrate significant links can arise, with a high probability, when no such link exists, and that these claims should thus be discarded until results of suitable statistical power are provided. I also discuss some strategies for responsible analysis and interpretation of this literature.', u'The Brachypodium genus contains the model grasses B. distachyon, B. stacei and B. hybridum, that are useful for molecular and physiological studies relevant to grain, pasture and bioenergy crops, as well as ecology. In this chapter we discuss the natural variation in climate/geography, genotypic and phenotypic diversity that exists within these species. We describe utilisation of this diversity via two methods, Genome Wide Association Studies and Landscape Genomics, to examine the interaction between specific genetic variants, phenotype, and environment. The aim is to identify adaptive loci that control specific traits in specific environments and understand the contribution of background polygenetic variation shaped by demographic processes. With recent developments in high throughput phenotyping, cheaper genotyping by sequencing and higher spatial/temporal resolution of climate data, these approaches can exploit the diversity of the Brachypodium. Experiments using this toolkit will reveal alleles, genes and pathways underlying agriculturally important and environmentally sensitive traits for use in grass breeding.', u'The high regulatory complexity of vertebrates has been related to two closely spaced whole genome duplications (2R-WGD) that occurred before the divergence of the major vertebrate groups. Following these events, many developmental transcription factors (TFs) were retained in multiple copies and subsequently specialized in diverse functions, whereas others reverted to their singleton state. TFs are known to be generally rich in amino acid repeats or low-complexity regions (LCRs), such as polyalanine or polyglutamine runs, which can evolve rapidly and potentially influence the transcriptional activity of the protein. Here we test the hypothesis that LCRs have played a major role in the diversification of TF gene duplicates. We find that nearly half of the TF gene families (107 out of 237) originated during the 2R-WGD contain LCRs, compared to only a small percentage of the non-duplicated TF genes used as a control (15 out of 115). At the individual gene level, we observe that twice as many duplicated TFs have gained LCRs as non-duplicated TFs. In addition, duplicated TFs preferentially accumulate certain LCR types, the most prominent of which are alanine repeats. We experimentally test the role of alanine-rich LCRs in two different TF gene families, PHOX2A/PHOX2B and LHX2/LHX9. In both cases, the presence of the alanine-rich LCR in one of the copies (PHOX2B and LHX2) significantly increases the capacity of the TF to activate transcription. Taken together, the results provide strong evidence that LCRs are important driving forces of evolutionary change in duplicated genes.', u'Fitness results from the optimal balance between survival, mating success and fecundity. The interactions between these three components of fitness vary importantly depending on the selective context, from positive covariation between them, to antagonistic pleiotropic relationships when fitness increases in one reduce fitness of others. Therefore, elucidating the routes through which selection shapes life history and phenotypic adaptations via these fitness components is of primary significance to understand ecological and evolutionary dynamics. However, while the fitness components mediated by natural (survival) and sexual (mating success) selection have extensively been debated from most possible perspectives, fecundity selection remains considerably less studied. Here, we review the theory, evidence and implications of fecundity selection as a driver of sex-specific adaptive evolution. Based on accumulating literature on the life-history, phenotypic and ecological aspects of fecundity, we (i) suggest that \u2018fecundity\u2019 is restricted to refer to brood size per reproductive episode, while \u2018annual\u2019 and \u2018lifetime fecundity\u2019 should not be used interchangeably with \u2018fecundity\u2019 as they represent different life history parameters; (ii) provide a generalized redefinition of fecundity selection that encompasses any traits that influence fecundity in any direction (from high to low) and in either sex; (iii) review the (macro)ecological basis of fecundity selection (e.g., ecological pressures that influence predictable spatial variation in fecundity); (iv) suggest that most ecological theories of fecundity selection should be tested in organisms other than birds; (v) argue that the longstanding fecundity selection hypothesis of female-biased sexual size dimorphism (SSD) has gained inconsistent support, that strong fecundity selection does not necessarily drive female-biased SSD, and that this form of SSD can be driven by other selective pressures; and (vi) discuss cases in which fecundity selection operates on males.', u'In the early days of neuroimaging, brain function was investigated by averaging across voxels within a region, stimuli within a category, and individuals within a group. These three forms of averaging discard important neuroscientific information. Recent studies have explored analyses that combine the evidence in better-motivated ways. Multivariate pattern analyses enable researchers to reveal representations in distributed population codes, honouring the unique information contributed by different voxels (or neurons). Condition-rich designs more richly sample the stimulus space and can treat each stimulus as a unique entity. Finally, each individual\u2019s brain is unique and recent studies have found ways to model and analyse the interindividual representational variability. Here we review our field\u2019s journey towards more sophisticated analyses that honour these important idiosyncrasies of brain representations. We describe an emerging framework for investigating individually unique pattern representations of particular stimuli in the brain. The framework models stimuli, responses and individuals multivariately and relates representations by means of representational dissimilarity matrices. Important components are computational models and multivariate descriptions of brain and behavioural responses. These recent developments promise a new paradigm for studying the individually unique brain at unprecedented levels of representational detail.', u'F-specific filamentous phage of Escherichia coli (Ff: f1, M13 or fd) are long thin filaments (860 nm x 6 nm).  They have been a major workhorse in display technologies and bionanotechnology; however, some applications are limited by the high length-to-diameter ratio of Ff.  Furthermore, use of functionalized Ff outside of laboratory containment is in part hampered by the fact that they are genetically modified viruses.  We have now developed a system for production and purification of very short functionalized Ff-phage-derived nanorods, named Ff-nano, that are only 50 nm in length.  In contrast to standard Ff-derived vectors that replicate in E. coli and contain antibiotic-resistance genes, Ff-nano are protein DNA complexes that cannot replicate on their own and do not contain any coding sequences.  These nanorods show an increased resistance to heating at 70 \xb0C in 1 % SDS in comparison to the full-length Ff phage of the same coat composition.  We demonstrate that functionalized Ff-nano particles are suitable for application as detection particles in sensitive and quantitative \u201cdipstick\u201d lateral flow diagnostic assay for human plasma fibronectin.', u'When biomolecules physically interact, natural selection operates on them jointly. Contacting positions in protein and RNA structures exhibit correlated patterns of sequence evolution due to constraints imposed by the interaction, and molecular arms races can develop between interacting proteins in pathogens and their hosts. To evaluate how well methods developed to detect coevolving residues within proteins can be adapted for cross-species, inter-protein analysis, we used statistical criteria to quantify the performance of these methods in detecting inter-protein residues within 8 angstroms of each other in the co-crystal structures of 33 bacterial protein interactions. We also evaluated their performance for detecting known residues at the interface of a host-virus protein complex with a partially solved structure. Our quantitative benchmarking showed that all coevolutionary methods clearly benefit from alignments with many sequences. Methods that aim to detect direct correlations generally outperform other approaches. However, faster mutual information based methods are occasionally competitive in small alignments and with relaxed false positive rates. All commonly used null distributions are anti-conservative and have high false positive rates in some scenarios, although the empirical distribution of scores performs reasonably well with deep alignments. We conclude that coevolutionary analysis of cross-species protein interactions holds great promise but requires sequencing many more species pairs.', u'The identification and annotation of nucleotide variants, including insertions/deletions and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), from whole genome sequence data is important for studies of bacterial evolution, comparative genomics, and phylogeography. The in silico Genotyper (ISG) represents a parallel, tested, open source tool that can perform these functions and scales well to thousands of bacterial genomes. ISG is written in Java and requires MUMmer (Delcher, et al., 2003), BWA (Li and Durbin, 2009), and GATK (McKenna, et al., 2010) for full functionality.  The source code and compiled binaries are freely available from https://github.com/TGenNorth/ISGPipeline under a GNU General Public License. Benchmark comparisons demonstrate that ISG is faster and more flexible than comparable tools.', u'In this technical note we describe modifications to Antimony (Biochemical model specification language) that allows modelers to use the SBML distributions package. In addition the article describes best practice for using distributions, including when they should and should not be used.', u'The concept of a fitness landscape, which describes the relation between genotype (or phenotype) and fitness as a surface on which the population climbs uphill towards local peaks, is a central conceptual tool in evolutionary biology. Inherent in this metaphor is the assumption that the distance between any two points can be defined in the same way as for Euclidean space. However, many of the processes which generate genetic variation, such as gene duplication and lateral gene transfer, are not symmetric by nature, but occur more readily in one direction than the other. This asymmetry is also found in phenotypes, for reasons associated with the genotype-phenotype map and developmental constraints. This article provides an overview of these processes and suggest how existing methods can be used for incorporating these asymmetric processes when visualising fitness landscapes.', u'Summary: \nChemical mapping experiments allow for nucleotide resolution assessment of RNA structure. We demonstrate that different strategies of integrating probing data with thermodynamics- based RNA secondary structure prediction algorithms can be implemented by means of soft constraints. This amounts to incorporating suitable pseudo-energies into the standard energy model for RNA secondary structures. As a showcase application for this new feature of the ViennaRNA Package we compare three distinct, previously published strategies to utilize SHAPE reactivities for structure prediction. The new tool is benchmarked on a set of RNAs with known reference structure.\n\nAvailability and implementation: \nThe capability for SHAPE directed RNA folding is part of the upcoming release of the ViennaRNA Package 2.2, for which a preliminary release is already freely available at http://www.tbi.univie.ac.at/RNA.', u"The genetic structure of human populations is extraordinarily complex and of fundamental importance to studies of anthropology, evolution, and medicine. As increasingly many individuals are of mixed origin, there is an unmet need for tools that can infer multiple origins. Misclassification of such individuals can lead to incorrect and costly misinterpretations of genomic data, primarily in disease studies and drug trials. We present an advanced tool to infer ancestry that can identify the biogeographic origins of highly mixed individuals. reAdmix can incorporate individual's knowledge of ancestors (e.g. having some ancestors from Turkey or a Scottish grandmother). reAdmix is an online tool available at http://chcb.saban-chla.usc.edu/reAdmix/.", u'Gaseous neurotransmitters such as nitric oxide (NO) provide a unique and often overlooked mechanism for neurons to communicate through diffusion within a network, independent of synaptic connectivity. NO provides homeostatic control of intrinsic excitability. Here we conduct a theoretical investigation of the distinguishing roles of NO-mediated diffusive homeostasis in comparison with canonical non-diffusive homeostasis in cortical networks. We find that both forms of homeostasis provide a robust mechanism for maintaining stable activity following perturbations. However, the resulting networks differ, with diffusive homeostasis maintaining substantial heterogeneity in activity levels of individual neurons, a feature disrupted in networks with non-diffusive homeostasis. This results in networks capable of representing input heterogeneity, and linearly responding over a broader range of inputs than those undergoing non-diffusive homeostasis. We further show that these properties are preserved when homeostatic and Hebbian plasticity are combined. These results suggest a mechanism for dynamically maintaining neural heterogeneity, and expose computational advantages of non-local homeostatic processes.', u'Intracellular immune receptors of the nucleotide-binding leucine-rich repeat (NB-LRR or NLR) proteins often function in pairs, with "helper" proteins required for the activity of "sensors" that mediate pathogen recognition. The NLR helper NRC1 (NB-LRR protein required for HR-associated cell death 1) has been described as a signalling hub required for the cell death mediated by both cell surface and intracellular immune receptors in the model plant Nicotiana benthamiana. However, this work predates the availability of the N. benthamiana genome and whether NRC1 is indeed required for the reported phenotypes has not been confirmed. Here, we investigated the NRC family of solanaceous plants using a combination of genome annotation, phylogenetics, gene silencing and genetic complementation experiments. We discovered that a paralog of NRC1, we termed NRC3, is required for the hypersensitive cell death triggered by the disease resistance protein Pto but not Rx and Mi-1.2. NRC3 may also contribute to the hypersensitive cell death triggered by the receptor-like protein Cf-4. Our results highlight the importance of applying genetic complementation to validate gene function in RNA silencing experiments.', u'The addition of compost to the soil can increase C and nutrient levels, but how these are affected by different rainfall regimes remain unknown. This study determines the carbon (C), nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) stocks after drying and rewetting events in a compost-amended grassland ecosystem at 3 depths (0-5, 5-10, 10-30cm). Compost addition consistently increased C, N and P stocks despite altered rainfall but these improvements can only be detected by careful consideration of soil depths.', u'Background \n\nDifferential expression analysis of RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) data typically relies on reconstructing transcripts or counting reads that overlap known gene structures. Previously we introduced an intermediate approach called differentially expressed region (DER) finder that seeks to identify contiguous regions of the genome showing differential expression signal at single base resolution that does not rely on existing annotation or potentially inaccurate transcript discovery. However, there were computational challenges involved with performing base-resolution analyses in large numbers of samples at genome scale.\n\nResults \nHere we describe a new version of the derfinder software that allows for: (1) genome- scale analyses in a large number of samples, (2) flexible statistical modeling, including multi-group and time course analyses, and (3) a new, computationally efficient approach to re-analysis at base resolution called expressed-region analysis. We also introduce functionality for annotating and plotting base-resolution data to identify artifacts and confirm results. We apply this approach to public RNA-seq data from the developing human brain to illustrate the types of analyses and results possible using derfinder.\n\nConclusions \nSingle-base and expressed-region RNA-sequencing analysis provides compromise be- tween full transcript reconstruction and gene-level analysis. derfinder is software designed to identify, visualize, and interpret differentially expressed regions. \n\nThe package is available from Bioconductor at www.bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/html/derfinder.html.', u"Mammalian genes are typically broken into several protein-coding and non-coding exons, but the evolutionary origins and functions of new exons are not well understood. Here, we analyzed patterns of exon gain using deep cDNA sequencing data from several mammals and one bird, identifying thousands of species- and lineage-specific exons. While exons conserved across mammals are mostly protein-coding and constitutively spliced, species-specific exons were mostly located in 5' untranslated regions and alternatively spliced. New exons most often derived from unique intronic sequence rather than repetitive elements, and were associated with upstream intronic deletions, increased nucleosome occupancy and RNA polymerase II pausing. Surprisingly, exon gain was associated with increased gene expression, but only in tissues where the exon was included, suggesting that splicing enhances steady-state mRNA levels and that changes in splicing represent a major contributor to the evolution of gene expression.", u'The study of gene essentiality in human cells is crucial for elucidating gene function and holds great potential for finding therapeutic targets for diseases such as cancer. Technological advances in genome editing using clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)-Cas9 systems have set the stage for identifying human cell line core and context-dependent essential genes. However, first generation negative selection screens using CRISPR technology demonstrate extreme variability across different cell lines. To advance the development of the catalogue of human core and context-dependent essential genes, we have developed an optimized, ultracomplex, genome-scale gRNA library of 176,500 guide RNAs targeting 17,661 genes and have applied it to negative and positive selection screens in a human cell line. Using an improved Bayesian analytical approach, we find CRISPR-based screens yield double to triple the number of essential genes than were previously observed using systematic RNA interference, including many genes at moderate expression levels that are largely refractory to RNAi methods. We further characterized four essential genes of unknown significance and found that they all likely exist in protein complexes with other essential genes. For example, RBM48 and ARMC7 are both essential nuclear proteins, strongly interact and are commonly amplified across major cancers. Our findings suggest the CRISPR-Cas9 system fundamentally alters the landscape for systematic reverse genetics in human cells for elucidating gene function, identifying disease genes, and uncovering therapeutic targets.', u'The Armenians are a culturally isolated population who historically inhabited a region in the Near East bounded by the Mediterranean and Black seas and the Caucasus, but remain underrepresented in genetic studies and have a complex history including a major geographic displacement during World War One. Here, we analyse genome-wide variation in 173 Armenians and compare them to 78 other worldwide populations. We find that Armenians form a distinctive cluster linking the Near East, Europe, and the Caucasus. We show that Armenian diversity can be explained by several mixtures of Eurasian populations that occurred between ~3,000 and ~2,000 BCE, a period characterized by major population migrations after the domestication of the horse, appearance of chariots, and the rise of advanced civilizations in the Near East. However, genetic signals of population mixture cease after ~1,200 BCE when Bronze Age civilizations in the Eastern Mediterranean world suddenly and violently collapsed. Armenians have since remained isolated and genetic structure within the population developed ~500 years ago when Armenia was divided between the Ottomans and the Safavid Empire in Iran. Finally, we show that Armenians have higher genetic affinity to Neolithic Europeans than other present-day Near Easterners, and that 29% of the Armenian ancestry may originate from an ancestral population best represented by Neolithic Europeans.', u'The NOD mouse is a polygenic model for type 1 diabetes that is characterized by insulitis, a leukocytic infiltration of the pancreatic islets.  During ~35 years since the original inbred strain was developed in Japan, NOD substrains have been established at different laboratories around the world.  Although environmental differences among NOD colonies capable of impacting diabetes incidence have been recognized, differences arising from genetic divergence have not previously been analyzed.   We illustrate the importance of intersubstrain genetic differences by showing a difference in diabetes incidence between two substrains (NOD/ShiLtJ and NOD/Bom) maintained in a common environment.  We use both Mouse Diversity Array and Whole Exome Capture Sequencing platforms to identify genetic differences distinguishing 5 NOD substrains.  We describe 64 SNPs, and 2 short indels that differ in coding regions of the 5 NOD substrains.  A 100 kb deletion on Chromosome 3 distinguishes NOD/ShiLtJ and NOD/ShiLtDvs from 3 other substrains, while a 111 kb deletion in the Icam2 gene on Chromosome 11 is unique to the NOD/ShiLtDvs genome. The extent of genetic divergence for NOD substrains is compared to similar studies for C57BL6 and BALB/c substrains.  As mutations are fixed to homozygosity by continued inbreeding, significant differences in substrain phenotypes are to be expected.   These results emphasize the importance of using embryo freezing methods to minimize genetic drift within substrains.', u'A common belief among human life history researchers is that "harsher" environments - i.e., those with higher mortality rates and resource stress - select for "fast" life histories, i.e. earlier reproduction and faster senescence. I show that these "harsh environments, fast life histories" - or HEFLH - hypotheses are poorly supported by evolutionary theory. First, I use a simple model to show that effects of environmental harshness on life history evolution are incredibly diverse. In particular, small changes in basic but poorly understood variables - e.g., whether and how population density affects vital rates - can cause selection to favor very different life histories. Furthermore, I show that almost all life history theory used to justify HEFLH hypotheses is misapplied in the first place. The reason is that HEFLH hypotheses usually treat plastic responses to heterogeneous environmental conditions within a population, whereas the theory used to justify such hypotheses treat genetic responses to environmental changes across an entire population. Counter-intuitively, the predictions of the former do not generally apply to the latter: the optimal response to a harsh environment within a large heterogeneous environment is not necessarily the optimal strategy of a population uniformly inhabiting the same harsh environment. I discuss these theoretical results in light of the current state of empirical research.', u'The movement of transposable elements from place to place in a genome requires both element-encoded and host-encoded factors. In DNA cut & paste transposition, the element-encoded transposase performs the DNA breakage and joining reactions that excise the element from the donor site and integrate it into the new insertion site. Host factors can influence many aspects of transposition. Notably, host DNA repair factors mediate the regeneration of intact duplex DNA necessary after transposase action by repairing the double strand break in the broken donor backbone, from which the transposon has excised, and repairing the single strand gaps that flank the newly inserted transposon. We have exploited the ability of the mammalian transposon piggyBat, a member of the piggyBac superfamily, to transpose in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and used the yeast single gene deletion collection to screen for genes encoding host factors involved in piggyBat transposition. piggyBac transposition is distinguished by the fact that piggyBac elements insert into TTAA target sites and also that the donor backbone is restored to its pre-transposon sequence after transposon excision, that is, excision is precise. We have found that repair of the broken donor backbone requires the non-homologous end-joining repair pathway (NHEJ). By contrast, NHEJ is not required for DNA repair at the new insertion site. Thus multiple DNA repair pathways are required for piggyBac transposition.', u"The palmaris longus muscle is widely recognized for its notable variability in living humans. These variations include not only muscle belly reversal, distinct double muscle bellies, duplication and triplication, but also total uni- or bilateral agenesis (absence). A review of the literature and data novel to this study illustrate that different populations of humans exhibit remarkable variation in the frequency of palmaris longus agenesis, from less than 5% of Chinese to nearly 65% of Indians. Comparative dissection-derived data reveal substantial variation in palmaris longus agenesis (PLA) in populations of extant humans (H. sapiens), chimpanzees (Pan spp.), and gorillas (Gorilla spp.) - but not orangutans (Pongo spp.), which apparently always develop this muscle. From this pattern, we infer that palmaris longus is undergoing non-adaptive, stochastic evolution in the extant African Homininae, while it continues to have adaptive purpose in Pongo, likely due to the orangutans' greater degree of arboreality than the African apes and humans. Clinical evidence supports this conclusion, at least as it applies to humans. This study highlights the utility of comparative soft tissue data collection and interpretation in elucidating the evolution of anatomical structures that do not fossilize.", u'Motivation: Genome-wide association studies have been conducted in inbred populations where the sample size is small. The ordinary association p-values and multiple testing correction therefore become questionable, as the detected genetic effect may or may not be due to chance, depending on the minor allele frequency distribution across the genome. Instead of permutation testing, marker-specific false positive rate can be analytically calculated in inbred populations without heterozygotes. \n\nResults: Solutions of exact p-values for genome-wide association studies in inbred populations were derived and implemented. An example is presented to illustrate that the marker-specific experiment-wise p-value varies as the genome-wide minor allele frequency distribution changes. A simulation using real Arabidopsis thaliana genome indicates that the use of exact p-values improves detection power and reduces inflation due to population structure. An analysis of a defense-related case-control phenotype using the exact p-values revealed the causal locus, where markers with higher MAFs had smaller p-values than the top variants with lower MAFs in ordinary genome-wide association analysis.\n\nAvailability and Implementation: Project URL: https://r-forge.r-project.org/projects/statomics/. The R package p.exact: https://r-forge.r-project.org/R/?group_id=2030.', u'We modelled the resilience and transient dynamics of terrestrial paleocommunities from the Karoo Basin, South Africa, around the Permian-Triassic mass extinction. Using recently refined biostratigraphic data that suggest two pulses of extinction leading up to the Permian-Triassic boundary, we show that during times of low extinction, paleocommunities were no more stable than randomly assembled communities, but they became stable during the mass extinction. Modelled food webs before and after the mass extinction have lower resilience and less stable transient dynamics compared to random food webs lacking in functional structure but of equal species richness. They are, however, more stable than random food webs of equal richness but with randomized functional structure. In contrast, models become increasingly more resilient and have more stable transient dynamics, relative to the random models, as the mass extinction progressed. The increased stability of the community that resulted from the first pulse of extinction was driven by significant selective extinction against small-bodied amniotes, and significantly greater probabilities of survival of large-bodied amniotes. These results point to a positive relationship between evolved patterns of functional diversity and emergent community dynamics, with observed patterns being more stable than alternative possibilities.', u'Developments in microfabrication technology have enabled the production of neural electrode arrays with hundreds of closely-spaced recording sites, and electrodes with thousands of sites are currently under development. These probes will in principle allow the simultaneous recording of very large numbers of neurons. However, use of this technology requires the development of techniques for decoding the spike times of the recorded neurons, from the raw data captured from the probes. There currently exists no practical solution to this problem of \u201cspike sorting\u201d for large, dense electrode arrays. Here, we present a set of novel tools to solve this problem, implemented in a suite of practical, user-friendly, open-source software. We validate these methods on data from rat cortex, demonstrating error rates as low as 5%.', u'HLA genotyping via next generation sequencing (NGS) poses challenges for the use of HLA allele names to analyze and discuss sequence polymorphism. NGS will identify many new synonymous and non- coding HLA sequence variants. Allele names identify the types of nucleotide polymorphism that define an allele (non-synonymous, synonymous and non-coding changes), but do not describe how polymorphism is distributed among the individual features (the flanking untranslated regions, exons and introns) of a gene. Further, HLA alleles cannot be named in the absence of antigen-recognition domain (ARD) encoding exons. Here, a system for describing HLA polymorphism in terms of HLA gene features (GFs) is proposed. This system enumerates the unique nucleotide sequences for each GF in an HLA gene, and records these in a GF enumeration notation that allows both more granular dissection of allele-level HLA polymorphism, and the discussion and analysis of GFs in the absence of ARD-encoding exon sequences.', u"A long-standing idea is that the macroevolutionary adaptive landscape -- a `map' of phenotype to fitness -- constrains evolution because certain phenotypes are fit, while others are universally unfit. Such constraints should be evident in traits that, across many species, cluster around particular modal values, with few intermediates between modes. Here, I compile a new global database of 599 species from 94 plant families showing that stomatal ratio, an important functional trait affecting photosynthesis, is multimodal, hinting at distinct peaks in the adaptive landscape. The dataset confirms that most plants have all their stomata on the lower leaf surface (hypostomy), but shows for the first time that species with roughly half their stomata on each leaf surface (amphistomy) form a distinct mode in the trait distribution. Based on a new evolutionary process model, this multimodal pattern is unlikely without constraint. Further, multimodality has evolved repeatedly across disparate families, evincing long-term constraint on the adaptive landscape. A simple cost-benefit model of stomatal ratio demonstrates that selection alone is sufficient to generate an adaptive landscape with multiple peaks. Finally, phylogenetic comparative methods indicate that life history evolution drives shifts between peaks. This implies that the adaptive benefit conferred by amphistomy -- increased photosynthesis -- is most important in plants with fast life histories, challenging existing ideas that amphistomy is an adaptation to thick leaves and open habitats. I conclude that peaks in the adaptive landscape have been constrained by selection over much of land plant evolution, leading to predictable, repeatable patterns of evolution.", u'Recent achievements in next-generation sequencing (NGS) technologies lead to a high demand for reuseable software components to easily compile customized analysis workflows for big genomics data. We present ViennaNGS, an integrated collection of Perl modules focused on building efficient pipelines for NGS data processing. It comes with functionality for extracting and converting features from common NGS file formats, computation and evaluation of read mapping statistics, as well as normalization of RNA abundance. Moreover, ViennaNGS provides software components for identification and characterization of splice junctions from RNA-seq data, parsing and condensing sequence motif data, automated construction of Assembly and Track Hubs for the UCSC genome browser, as well as wrapper routines for a set of commonly used NGS command line tools.', u'Despite extraordinary efforts to profile cancer genomes on a large scale, interpreting the vast amount of genomic data in the light of cancer evolution and in a clinically relevant manner remains challenging. Here we demonstrate that cancer next-generation sequencing data is dominated by the signature of growth governed by a power-law distribution of mutant allele frequencies. The power-law signature is common to multiple tumor types and is a consequence of the effectively-neutral evolutionary dynamics that underpin the evolution of a large proportion of cancers, giving rise to the abundance of mutations responsible for intra-tumor heterogeneity. Importantly, the law allows the measurement, in each individual cancer, of the in vivo mutation rate and the timing of mutations with remarkable precision. This result provides a new way to interpret cancer genomic data by considering the physics of tumor growth in a way that is both patient-specific and clinically relevant.', u'E-Cadherin (CDH1) genetic variations may be involved in invasion and metastasis of various cancers by altering gene transcriptional activity of epithelial cells. However, published studies on the association of CDH1 gene polymorphisms and prostate cancer (PCA)risk remain contradictory, owing to differences in living habits and genetic backgrounds.To derive a more better and comprehensive conclusion, the present meta-analysis was performed.Electronic searches of several databases were conducted for all publications on the association between the CDH1 \u2212160 C/A polymorphism and prostate cancer before Oct 2014. The odds ratio (OR) and its 95% confidence interval (CI) were used for statistical analysis.A total of 7 eligible studies including 1294 cases and 1782 controls were involved in this meta-analysis.Overall, meta-analysis indicated that the -160A allele carriers (AA, CA, AA+CA and A allele) had an increased risk of PCA compared with the homozygotes (CC). In the subgroup analyses by ethnicity, a positive association was found in Asians with A allele, AA, CA, AA+CA genotype and Caucasian descendants with AA genotype, dominant and recessive models. On the contrary, a decreased  prostate cancer risk was found in Africans with heterozygous,dominant and allele models.Taken together,this meta-analysis showed that the CDH1 -160A allele might be a risk factor for prostate cancer in Asians and Caucasians. However, this result should be verified by additional population-based studies with large sample sizes.', u"This paper deals with an abstraction of a unified problem of drug discovery and pathogen identification. Here, the ``lead compounds'' are abstracted as inhibitors, pathogenic proteins as defectives, and the mixture of ``ineffective'' chemical compounds and non-pathogenic proteins as normal items. A defective could be immune to the presence of an inhibitor in a test. So, a test containing a defective is positive iff it does not contain its ``associated'' inhibitor. The goal of this paper is to identify the defectives, inhibitors, and their ``associations'' with high probability, or in other words, learn the Immune Defectives Graph (IDG).  We propose a probabilistic non-adaptive pooling design, a probabilistic two-stage adaptive pooling design and decoding algorithms for learning the IDG. For the two-stage adaptive-pooling design, we show that the sample complexity of the number of tests required to guarantee recovery of the inhibitors, defectives and their associations with high probability, i.e., the upper bound, exceeds the proposed lower bound by a logarithmic multiplicative factor in the number of items. For the non-adaptive pooling design, in the large inhibitor regime, we show that the upper bound exceeds the proposed lower bound  by a logarithmic multiplicative factor in the number of inhibitors.", u'We quantify the VDJ recombination and somatic hypermutation processes in human B-cells using probabilistic inference methods on high-throughput DNA sequence repertoires of human B-cell receptor heavy chains. Our analysis captures the statistical properties of the naive repertoire, first after its initial generation via VDJ recombination and then after selection for functionality. We also infer statistical properties of the somatic hypermutation machinery (exclusive of subsequent effects of selection). Our main results are the following: the B-cell repertoire is substantially more diverse than T-cell repertoires, due to longer junctional insertions; sequences that pass initial selection are distinguished by having a higher probability of being generated in a VDJ recombination event; somatic hypermutations have a non-uniform distribution along the V gene that is well explained by an independent site model for the sequence context around the hypermutation site.', u'The redox potential of the mutated cytochrome c form with eight charge changing substitutions was experimentally determined', u'We generated genome-wide data from 69 Europeans who lived between 8,000-3,000 years ago by enriching ancient DNA libraries for a target set of almost four hundred thousand polymorphisms. Enrichment of these positions decreases the sequencing required for genome-wide ancient DNA analysis by a median of around 250-fold, allowing us to study an order of magnitude more individuals than previous studies and to obtain new insights about the past. We show that the populations of western and far eastern Europe followed opposite trajectories between 8,000-5,000 years ago. At the beginning of the Neolithic period in Europe, ~8,000-7,000 years ago, closely related groups of early farmers appeared in Germany, Hungary, and Spain, different from indigenous hunter-gatherers, whereas Russia was inhabited by a distinctive population of hunter-gatherers with high affinity to a ~24,000 year old Siberian6. By ~6,000-5,000 years ago, a resurgence of hunter-gatherer ancestry had occurred throughout much of Europe, but in Russia, the Yamnaya steppe herders of this time were descended not only from the preceding eastern European hunter-gatherers, but from a population of Near Eastern ancestry. Western and Eastern Europe came into contact ~4,500 years ago, as the Late Neolithic Corded Ware people from Germany traced ~3/4 of their ancestry to the Yamnaya, documenting a massive migration into the heartland of Europe from its eastern periphery. This steppe ancestry persisted in all sampled central Europeans until at least ~3,000 years ago, and is ubiquitous in present-day Europeans. These results provide support for the theory of a steppe origin of at least some of the Indo-European languages of Europe.', u"Imaging genetics is an emerging field in which the association between genes and neuroimaging-based quantitative phenotypes are used to explore the functional role of genes in neuroanatomy and neurophysiology in the context of healthy function and neuropsychiatric disorders. The main obstacle for researchers in the field is the high dimensionality of the data in both the imaging phenotypes and the genetic variants commonly typed. In this article, we develop a novel method that utilizes Gene Ontology, an online database, to select and prioritize certain genes, employing a stratified false discovery rate (sFDR) approach to investigate their associations with imaging phenotypes. sFDR has the potential to increase power in genome wide association studies (GWAS), and is quickly gaining traction as a method for multiple testing correction. Our novel approach addresses both the pressing need in genetic research to move beyond candidate gene studies, while not being overburdened with a loss of power due to multiple testing. As an example of our methodology, we perform a GWAS of hippocampal volume using the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative sample.", u'Because the rice genome has been sequenced entirely, search to find specific features at genome-wide scale is of high importance. Palindromic sequences are important DNA motifs involved in the regulation of different cellular processes and are a potential source of genetic instability. In order to search and study the long palindromic regions in the rice genome ???R??? statistical programming language was used. All palindromes, defined as identical inverted repeats with spacer DNA, could be analyzed and sorted according to their frequency, size, GC content, compact index etc. The results showed that the overall palindrome frequency was high in rice genome (nearly 51000 palindromes), with highest and lowest number of palindromes, respectively belongs to chromosome 1 and 12. Palindrome numbers could well explain the rice chromosome expansion (R2>92%). Average GC content of the palindromic sequences is 42.1%, indicating AT-richness and hence, the low-complexity of palindromic sequences. The results also showed different compact indices of palindromes in different chromosomes (43.2 per cM in chromosome 8 and 34.5 per cM in chromosome 3, as highest and lowest, respectively). The possible application of palindrome identification can be the use in the development of a molecular marker system facilitating some genetic studies such as evaluation of genetic variation and gene mapping and also serving as a useful tool in population structure analysis and genome evolution studies. Based on these results it can be concluded that the rice genome is rich in long palindromic sequences that triggered most variation during evolution.', u"The increasing rate of antibiotic resistance and slowing discovery of novel antibiotic treatments presents a growing threat to public health. In the present study we develop a Markov Chain model of evolution in asexually reproducing populations which we use to illustrate that different selection pressures do not commute. We demonstrate that the emergence of resistant individuals can be both hindered and promoted by careful orderings of drug application. This suggests a new strategy in the war against antibiotic therapy resistant organisms: rational drug ordering to shepherd evolution through genotype space to states corresponding to greater sensitivity to antibiotic treatment. The model we present is an encoding of the 'Strong Selection Weak Mutation' model of evolution on fitness landscapes within a Markov Chain, which associates the global properties of the fitness landscape with the algebraic properties of the Markov Chain transition matrix. Through this association we derive results on the non-commutativity and irreversibility of natural selection.", u'The grid cells discovered in the rodent medial entorhinal cortex have been proposed to provide a metric for Euclidean space, possibly even hardwired in the embryo. Yet one class of models describing the formation of grid unit selectivity is entirely based on developmental self-organization, and as such it predicts that the metric it expresses should reflect the environment to which the animal has adapted. We show that, according to self-organizing models, if raised in a non-Euclidean hyperbolic cage rats should be able to form hyperbolic grids. For a given range of grid spacing relative to the radius of negative curvature of the hyperbolic surface, such grids are predicted to appear as multi-peaked firing maps, in which each peak has seven neighbours instead of the Euclidean six, a prediction that can be tested in experiments. We thus demonstrate that a useful universal neuronal metric, in the sense of a multi-scale ruler and compass that remain unaltered when changing environments, can be extended to other than the standard Euclidean plane.', u'The only way we can interact with the world is through movements, and our primary interactions are via the hands, thus any loss of hand function has immediate impact on our quality of life. However, to date it has not been systematically assessed how coordination in the hand\'s joints affects every day actions. This is important for two fundamental reasons. Firstly, to understand the representations and computations underlying motor control "in-the-wild" situations, and secondly to develop smarter controllers for prosthetic hands that have the same functionality as natural limbs. In this work we exploit the correlation structure of our hand and finger movements in daily-life. The novelty of our idea is that instead of averaging variability out, we take the view that the structure of variability may contain valuable information about the task being performed. We asked seven subjects to interact in 17 daily-life situations, and quantified behaviour in a principled manner using CyberGlove body sensor networks that, after accurate calibration, track all major joints of the hand. Our key findings are: 1. We confirmed that hand control in daily-life tasks is very low-dimensional, with four to five dimensions being sufficient to explain 80-90% of the variability in the natural movement data. 2. We established a universally applicable measure of manipulative complexity that allowed us to measure and compare limb movements across tasks. We used Bayesian latent variable models to model the low-dimensional structure of finger joint angles in natural actions. 3. This allowed us to build a na\xefve classifier that within the first 1000ms of action initiation (from a flat hand start configuration) predicted which of the 17 actions was going to be executed - enabling us to reliably predict the action intention from very short-time-scale initial data, further revealing the foreseeable nature of hand movements for control of neuroprosthetics and tele operation purposes. 4. Using the Expectation-Maximization algorithm on our latent variable model permitted us to reconstruct with high accuracy (<5\xb0-6\xb0 MAE) the movement trajectory of missing fingers by simply tracking the remaining fingers. Overall, our results suggest the hypothesis that specific hand actions are orchestrated by the brain in such a way that in the natural tasks of daily-life there is sufficient redundancy and predictability to be directly exploitable for neuroprosthetics.', u'Prostate cancer exhibits high mathematical complexity due to the disruption of tissue architecture. An important part of the diagnostic of prostate tumor samples is the histological evaluation of cellular and glandular organization. The Gleason grade and score, a commonly used prognostic indicator of patient outcome, is based on the match of glandular architectural patterns with standard patterns. Unfortunately, the subjective nature of visual grading leads to variations in scoring by different pathologists. We proposed the fractal dimension of the lumen and the Lempel-Zip complexity of the histopathological patterns as useful descriptors aiding pathologist to standardize histological classification and thus prognosis and therapy planning.', u'Analysis of High-throughput sequencing (HTS) data is a difficult problem, especially in the context of non-model organisms where comparison of homologous sequences may be hindered by the lack of a close reference genome. Current mapping-based methods rely on the availability of a highly similar reference sequence, whereas de novo assemblies produce anonymous (unannotated) contigs that are not easily compared across samples. Here, we present Assembly by Reduced Complexity (ARC) a hybrid mapping and assembly approach for targeted assembly of homologous sequences. ARC is an open-source project (http://ibest.github.io/ARC/) implemented in the Python language and consists of the following stages: 1) align sequence reads to reference targets, 2) use alignment results to distribute reads into target specific bins, 3) perform assemblies for each bin (target) to produce contigs, and 4) replace previous reference targets with assembled contigs and iterate. We show that ARC is able to assemble high quality, unbiased mitochondrial genomes seeded from 11 progressively divergent references, and is able to assemble full mitochondrial genomes starting from short, poor quality ancient DNA reads. We also show ARC compares favorably to de novo assembly of a large exome capture dataset for CPU and memory requirements; assembling 7,627 individual targets across 55 samples, completing over 1.3 million assemblies in less than 78 hours, while using under 32 Gb of system memory. ARC breaks the assembly problem down into many smaller problems, solving the anonymous contig and poor scaling inherent in some de novo assembly methods and reference bias inherent in traditional read mapping.', u'We propose a mechanism for prostate cancer cell lines growth, e.g., LNCaP and PC3 based on a Gompertz dynamics. This growth exhibits a multifractal behavior and a "second order" phase transition. Finally, it was found that the cellular line PC3 exhibits a higher value the entropy production rate compared to LNCaP, which is indicative of the robustness of PC3, over to LNCaP and may be a quantitative index of metastatic potential tumors.', u'All cancers arise as a result of the acquisition of somatic mutations that drive the disease progression. A number of computational tools have been developed to identify driver genes for a specific cancer from a group of cancer samples. However, it remains a challenge to identify driver mutations/genes for an individual patient and design drug therapies. We developed iCAGES, a novel statistical framework to rapidly analyze patient-specific cancer genomic data, prioritize personalized cancer driver events and predict personalized therapies. iCAGES includes three consecutive layers: the first layer integrates contributions from coding, non-coding and structural variations to infer driver variants. For coding mutations, we developed a radial support vector machine using manually curated mutations to predict their driver potential. The second layer identifies driver genes, by using information from the first layer and integrating prior biological knowledge on gene-gene and gene-phenotype networks. The third layer prioritizes personalized drug treatment, by classifying potential driver genes into different categories and querying drug-gene databases. Compared to currently available tools, iCAGES achieves better performance by correctly classifying point coding driver mutations (AUC=0.97, 95% CI: 0.97-0.97, significantly better than the second best tool with P=0.01) and genes (AUC=0.93, 95% CI: 0.93-0.94, significantly better than MutSigCV with P<1X10-15). We also illustrated two examples where iCAGES correctly nominated two targeted drugs for two advanced cancer patients with exceptional response, based on their somatic mutation profiles. iCAGES leverages personal genomic information and prior biological knowledge, effectively identifies cancer driver genes and predicts treatment strategies. iCAGES is available at http://icages.usc.edu.', u'Humans have $23$ pairs of homologous chromosomes. The homologous pairs are almost identical pairs of chromosomes. For the most part, differences in homologous chromosome occur at certain documented positions called single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs).A haplotype of an individual is the pair of sequences of SNPs on the two homologous chromosomes. In this paper, we study the problem of inferring haplotypes of individuals from mate-pair reads of their genome. We give a simple formula for the coverage needed for haplotype assembly, under a  generative model. The analysis here leverages connections of this problem with decoding convolutional codes.', u'The giant deer Megaloceros giganteus is among the most fascinating Late Pleistocene Eurasian megafauna that became extinct at the end of the last ice age. Important questions persist regarding its phylogenetic relationship to contemporary taxa and the reasons for its extinction. We analyzed two large ancient cervid bone fragments recovered from cave sites in the Swabian Jura (Baden-W\xfcrttemberg, Germany) dated to 12,000 years ago. Using hybridization capture in combination with next generation sequencing, we were able to reconstruct nearly complete mitochondrial genomes from both specimens. Both mtDNAs cluster phylogenetically with fallow deer and show high similarity to previously studied partial Megaloceros giganteus DNA from Kamyshlov in western Siberia and Killavullen in Ireland. The unexpected presence of Megaloceros giganteus in Southern Germany after the Ice Age suggests a later survival in Central Europe than previously proposed. The complete mtDNAs provide strong phylogenetic support for a Dama-Megaloceros clade. Furthermore, isotope analyses support an increasing competition between giant deer, red deer, and reindeer after the Last Glacial Maximum, which might have contributed to the extinction of Megaloceros in Central Europe.', u'We present an electronic format for exchanging data for HLA and KIR genotyping with extensions for next-generation sequencing (NGS). This format addresses NGS data exchange by refining the Histoimmunogenetics Markup Language (HML) to conform to the proposed Minimum Information for Reporting Immunogenomic NGS Genotyping (MIRING) reporting guidelines (miring.immunogenomics.org). Our refinements of HML include two major additions. First, NGS is supported by new XML structures to capture additional NGS data and metadata required to produce a genotyping result, including analysis-dependent (dynamic) and method-dependent (static) components. A full genotype, consensus sequence, and the surrounding metadata are included directly, while the raw sequence reads and platform documentation are externally referenced.  Second, genotype ambiguity is fully represented by integrating Genotype List Strings, which use a hierarchical set of delimiters to represent allele and genotype ambiguity in a complete and accurate fashion. HML also continues to enable the transmission of legacy methods (e.g. site-specific oligonucleotide, sequence-specific priming, and sequence based typing (SBT)), adding features such as allowing multiple group-specific sequencing primers, and fully leveraging techniques that combine multiple methods to obtain a single result, such as SBT integrated with NGS.', u"Poor DNA preservation is the most limiting factor in ancient genomic research. In the vast majority of ancient bones and teeth, endogenous DNA molecules only represent a minor fraction of the whole DNA extract, rendering traditional shot-gun sequencing approaches cost-ineffective for whole-genome characterization. Based on ancient human bone samples from temperate and tropical environments, we show that an initial EDTA-based enzymatic 'pre-digestion' of powdered bone increases the proportion of endogenous DNA several fold. By performing the pre-digestion step between 30 min and 6 hours on five bones, we identify the optimal pre-digestion time and document an average increase of 2.7 times in the endogenous DNA fraction after 1 hour of pre-digestion. With longer pre-digestion times, the increase is asymptotic while molecular complexity decreases. We repeated the experiment with n=21 and t=15-30', and document a significant increase in endogenous DNA content (one-sided paired t-test: p=0.009). We advocate the implementation of a short pre-digestion step as a standard procedure in ancient DNA extractions from bone material. Finally, we demonstrate on 14 ancient teeth that crushed cementum of the roots contains up to 14 times more endogenous DNA than the dentine. Our presented methodological guidelines considerably advance the ability to characterize ancient genomes.", u'SPS catalyzes the synthesis of selenophosphate, the selenium donor for the synthesis of the amino acid selenocysteine (Sec), incorporated in selenoproteins in response to the UGA codon. SPS is unique among proteins of the selenoprotein biosynthesis machinery in that it is, in many species, a selenoprotein itself, although, as in all selenoproteins, Sec is often replaced by cysteine (Cys). In metazoan genomes we found, however, SPS genes with lineage specific substitutions other than Sec or Cys. Our results show that these non-Sec, non-Cys SPS genes originated through a number of independent gene duplications of diverse molecular origin from an ancestral selenoprotein SPS gene. Although of independent origin, complementation assays in fly mutants show that these genes share a common function, which most likely emerged in the ancestral metazoan gene. This function appears to be unrelated to selenophosphate synthesis, since all genomes encoding selenoproteins contain Sec or Cys SPS genes (SPS2), but those containing only non-Sec, non-Cys SPS genes (SPS1) do not encode selenoproteins. Thus, in SPS genes, through parallel duplications and subsequent convergent subfunctionalization, two functions initially carried by a single gene are recurrently segregated at two different loci. RNA structures enhancing the readthrough of the Sec-UGA codon in SPS genes, which may be traced back to prokaryotes, played a key role in this process. The SPS evolutionary history in metazoans constitute a remarkable example of the emergence and evolution of gene function.  We have been able to trace this history with unusual detail thanks to the singular feature of SPS genes, wherein the amino acid at a single site determines protein function, and, ultimately, the evolutionary fate of an entire class of genes.', u'As humans dispersed out of Africa, they adapted to new environmental challenges including changes in exposure to mutagenic solar radiation. Humans in temperate latitudes have acquired light skin that is relatively transparent to ultraviolet light, and some evidence suggests that their DNA damage response pathways have also experienced local adaptation. This raises the possibility that different populations have experienced different selective pressures affecting genome integrity. Here, I present evidence that the rate of a particular mutation type has recently increased in the European population, rising in frequency by 50% during the 40,000?80,000 years since Europeans began diverging from Asians. A comparison of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) private to Africa, Asia, and Europe in the 1000 Genomes data reveals that private European variation is enriched for the transition 5?-TCC-3?\u21925?-TTC-3?. Although it is not clear whether UV played a causal role in the changing the European mutational spectrum, 5?-TCC-3?\u21925?-TTC-3? is known to be the most common somatic mutation present in melanoma skin cancers, as well as the mutation most frequently induced in vitro by UV. Regardless of its causality, this change indicates that DNA replication fidelity has not remained stable even since the origin of modern humans and might have changed numerous times during our recent evolutionary history.', u"Cancer poses danger because of its unregulated growth, development of resistant subclones, and metastatic spread to vital organs. Although the major transitions in cancer development are increasingly well understood, we lack quantitative theory for how preventive measures and post-excision ('reactive') treatments are predicted to affect risks of obtaining a life threatening cancer or relapse, respectively. We employ analytical and numerical models to evaluate how continuous measures such as life style changes, and certain non-targeted and targeted treatments affect both neoplastic growth and the frequency of resistant clones. We find that preventive measures can have a negligible impact on pre-cancerous lesions and yet achieve considerable reductions in risk of invasive cancer. Importantly, our model, based on realistic parameter estimates, predicts that daily cancer cell arrest levels of 0.2-0.3% produce optimal outcomes for prevention, whereas for reaction the level is 0.3-0.4%. For similar cancer cell populations, prevention outcomes are, on average, always better than reactive ones. This is because reactive measures are more likely to select for faster growing subclones with higher probabilities of resistance, highlighting the difficulty in countering relapse regardless of therapeutic impact on cancer cell populations. We discuss these results and other important mitigating factors that need to be taken into consideration in a comparative understanding of preventive versus reactive treatments.", u'Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have been successful in identifying single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with many traits and diseases. However, at existing sample sizes, these variants explain only part of the estimated heritability. Leverage of GWAS results from related phenotypes may improve detection without the need for larger datasets.\n\nThe Bayesian conditional false discovery rate (cFDR) constitutes an upper bound on the expected false discovery rate (FDR) across a set of SNPs whose p values for two diseases are both less than two disease-specific thresholds. Calculation of the cFDR requires only summary statistics and has several advantages over traditional GWAS analysis. However, existing methods require distinct control samples between studies. Here, we extend the technique to allow for some or all controls to be shared, increasing applicability. Several different SNP sets can be defined with the same cFDR value, and we show that the expected FDR across the union of these sets may exceed expected FDR in any single set. We describe a procedure to establish an upper bound for the expected FDR among the union of such sets of SNPs.\n\nWe apply our technique to pairwise analysis of p values from ten autoimmune diseases with variable sharing of controls, enabling discovery of 59 SNP-disease associations which do not reach GWAS significance after genomic control in individual datasets. Most of the SNPs we highlight have previously been confirmed using replication studies or larger GWAS, a useful validation of our technique; we report eight SNP-disease associations across five diseases not previously declared.\n\nOur technique extends and strengthens the previous algorithm, and establishes robust limits on the expected FDR. This approach can improve SNP detection in GWAS, and give insight into shared aetiology between phenotypically related conditions.', u'North American populations of Drosophila melanogaster are thought to derive from both European and African source populations, but despite their importance for genetic research, patterns of admixture along their genomes are essentially undocumented.  Here, I infer geographic ancestry along genomes of the Drosophila Genetic Reference Panel (DGRP) and the D. melanogaster reference genome.  Overall, the proportion of African ancestry was estimated to be 20% for the DGRP and 9% for the reference genome.  Based on the size of admixture tracts and the approximate timing of admixture, I estimate that the DGRP population underwent roughly 13.9 generations per year.  Notably, ancestry levels varied strikingly among genomic regions, with significantly less African introgression on the X chromosome, in regions of high recombination, and at genes involved in specific processes such as circadian rhythm.  An important role for natural selection during the admixture process was further supported by a genome-wide signal of ancestry disequilibrium, in that many between-chromosome pairs of loci showed a deficiency of Africa-Europe allele combinations.  These results support the hypothesis that admixture between partially genetically isolated Drosophila populations led to natural selection against incompatible genetic variants, and that this process is ongoing.  The ancestry blocks inferred here may be relevant for the performance of reference alignment in this species, and may bolster the design and interpretation of many population genetic and association mapping studies.', u'For decades, neurophysiologists have characterized the biophysical properties of a rich diversity of neuron types. However, identifying common features and computational roles shared across neuron types is made more difficult by inconsistent conventions for collecting and reporting biophysical data. Here, we leverage NeuroElectro, a literature-based database of electrophysiological properties (www.neuroelectro.org), to better understand neuronal diversity -- both within and across neuron types -- and the confounding influences of methodological variability. We show that experimental conditions (e.g., electrode types, recording temperatures, or animal age) can explain a substantial degree of the literature-reported biophysical variability observed within a neuron type. Critically, accounting for experimental metadata enables massive cross-study data normalization and reveals that electrophysiological data are far more reproducible across labs than previously appreciated. Using this normalized dataset, we find that neuron types throughout the brain cluster by biophysical properties into 6-9 super-classes. These classes include intuitive clusters, such as fast-spiking basket cells, as well as previously unrecognized clusters, including a novel class of cortical and olfactory bulb interneurons that exhibit persistent activity at theta-band frequencies.', u'Genomic selection, enabled by whole genome prediction (WGP) methods, is\nrevolutionizing plant breeding. Existing WGP methods have been shown to deliver\naccurate predictions in the most common settings, such as prediction of across\nenvironment performance for traits with additive gene effects. However, prediction of\ntraits with non-additive gene effects and prediction of genotype by environment\ninteraction (G?E), continues to be challenging. Previous attempts to increase\nprediction accuracy for these particularly difficult tasks employed prediction methods\nthat are purely statistical in nature. Augmenting the statistical methods with biological\nknowledge has been largely overlooked thus far. Crop growth models (CGMs) attempt\nto represent the impact of functional relationships between plant physiology and the\nenvironment in the formation of yield and similar output traits of interest. Thus, they\ncan explain the impact of G?E and certain types of non-additive gene effects on the\nexpressed phenotype. Approximate Bayesian computation (ABC), a novel and powerful\ncomputational procedure, allows the incorporation of CGMs directly into the estimation\nof whole genome marker effects in WGP. Here we provide a proof of concept study for\nthis novel approach and demonstrate its use with synthetic data sets. We show that this\nnovel approach can be considerably more accurate than the benchmark WGP method\nGBLUP in predicting performance in environments represented in the estimation set as\nwell as in previously unobserved environments for traits determined by non-additive\ngene effects. We conclude that this proof of concept demonstrates that using ABC for\nincorporating biological knowledge in the form of CGMs into WGP is a very promising\nand novel approach to improving prediction accuracy for some of the most challenging\nscenarios in plant breeding and applied genetics.', u'Degradation of mRNA contributes to variation in transcript abundance.  Studies of individual mRNAs show that cis and trans factors control mRNA degradation rates.  However, transcriptome-wide studies have failed to identify global relationships between transcript properties and mRNA degradation.  We investigated the contribution of cis and trans factors to transcriptome-wide degradation rate variation in the budding yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, using multiple regression analysis.  We find that multiple transcript properties are associated with mRNA degradation rates and that a model incorporating these factors explains ~50% of the genome-wide variance.  Predictors of mRNA degradation rates include transcript length, abundance, ribosome density, codon adaptation index (CAI) and GC content of the third position in codons.  To validate these factors we studied individual transcripts expressed from identical promoters.  We find that decreasing ribosome density by mutating the translational start site of the GAP1 transcript increases its degradation rate.  Using variants of GFP that differ at synonymous sites, we show that increased GC content of the third position of codons results in decreased mRNA degradation rate. Thus, in steady-state conditions, a large fraction of genome-wide variation in mRNA degradation rates is determined by inherent properties of transcripts related to protein translation rather than specific regulatory mechanisms.', u'Abstract \n This is the pre-print version of a paper submitted to Technische Mechanik (ISSN 0232-3869)\nHydrodynamic analysis suggests that the injection of drag-reducing agents (DRA) in nanomolar concentrations may hinder metastasizing of circulating tumor cells and serve this way as a complementary post-operative treatment for cancer patients. Our conclusion is based on the following considerations:\n- Tumor cells need an extra nutrient supply in order to survive and grow.\n- The attachment of circulating tumor cells therefore tends to occur at sites in the human circulatory system characterized by localized turbulence, which enhances the mass transfer of nutrients, e.g., at sites of vessel branching and bending with plasma skimming. \n- Also obstacles to blood flow, such as plaques (atherosclerosis), tumors, and red blood cell (RBC) rouleaux, produce local vortices that increase mass transfer, i.e., food supply. \n- DRA have the ability to smooth (laminarise) localized turbulence in the circulatory system and to reduce mass transfer.\n- Depriving tumor cells of their required nutrient levels will reduce the probability of creating metastatic tumors, and may lead to their starvation-induced death.\nIn the first part of our essay we demonstrate how flow constrictions decrease mean blood flow velocity, wall shear rates, and Reynolds numbers respectively, and increase the friction factor. \nExperimentally derived apparent viscosity data from literature will be used to determine the probability of RBC rouleaux formation. This is of importance since RBC rouleaux are typically associated with turbulent blood flow patterns. An increase in apparent viscosity at low flow rates will be attributed to the formation of RBC rouleaux.\nIn part two we discuss the application of the Lockhart/Martinelli method to determine the pressure drop in blood vessels. The objective is to determine a mass transfer coefficient characterizing the mass transfer between the center and the wall of both healthy and cancerous blood vessels. This coefficient indicates the nutrient supply available to tumor cells under different flow conditions and shows the effect of DRA.\nOur hydrodynamic approach contrasts with previous studies of the possible benefits of DRA injection, which were focused on improving blood supply. We emphasize the reduction of the mass transfer rate as a tool to withhold turbulence induced supplementary food supply to tumor cells.\nDue to the possibility of unexpected side effects when using DRA (including their mechanical degradation products) animal models are indispensable before clinical trials.', u"Intracellular processes rarely work in isolation but continually\n  interact with the rest of the cell. In microbes, for example, we now\n  know that gene expression across the whole genome typically changes\n  with growth rate. The mechanisms driving such global regulation,\n  however, are not well understood. Here we consider three trade-offs\n  that because of limitations in levels of cellular energy, free\n  ribosomes, and proteins are faced by all living cells and construct\n  a mechanistic model that comprises these trade-offs. Our model\n  couples gene expression with growth rate and growth rate with a\n  growing population of cells. We show that the model recovers Monod's\n  law for the growth of microbes and two other empirical relationships\n  connecting growth rate to the mass fraction of ribosomes. Further,\n  we can explain growth related effects in dosage compensation by\n  paralogs and predict host-circuit interactions in synthetic\n  biology. Simulating competitions between strains, we find that the\n  regulation of metabolic pathways may have evolved not to match\n  expression of enzymes to levels of extracellular substrates in\n    changing environments but rather to balance a trade-off between\n  exploiting one type of nutrient over another. Although\n  coarse-grained, the trade-offs that the model embodies are fundamental,\n  and, as such, our modelling framework has potentially wide\n    application, including in both biotechnology and medicine.", u'Island endemics are likely to experience population bottlenecks; they also have restricted ranges. Therefore we expect island species to have small effective population sizes (Ne) and reduced genetic diversity compared to their mainland counterparts. As a consequence, island species may have inefficient selection and reduced adaptive potential. We used both polymorphisms and substitutions to address these predictions, improving on the approach of recent studies that only used substitution data. This allowed us to directly test the assumption that island species have small values of Ne. We found that island species had significantly less genetic diversity than mainland species; however, this pattern could be attributed to a subset of island species that had undergone a recent population bottleneck. When these species were excluded from the analysis, island and mainland species had similar levels of genetic diversity, despite island species occupying considerably smaller areas than their mainland counterparts. We also found no overall difference between island and mainland species in terms of effectiveness of selection or mutation rate. Our evidence suggests that island colonisation has no lasting impact on molecular evolution. This surprising result highlights gaps in our knowledge of the relationship between census and effective population size.', u'We have previously examined the impact of neonicotinoid pesticides, dinotefuran and clothianidin, on honeybee Apis mellifera colonies in long-term field experiments when they were simultaneously administered through both vehicles of sugar syrup and pollen paste (Yamada et al., 2012). The independent effect of a pesticide through two vehicles has not been studied in our previous work. In this paper, we investigated the independent impact of dinotefuran through each of the two vehicles. We confirmed that dinotefuran intake per bee until colony extinction due to administration through pollen paste (DF-TIPP) was roughly one-fifth as much as that through sugar syrup (DF-TISS). The intake was largely independent of dinotefuran concentration. We considered the possibility of DF-TIPP per bee as an indicator to assess the impact of persistent pesticide on a honeybee colony in a practical apiary.\nThis work has replicated the finding that a honeybee colony has dwindled away to nothing after assuming an aspect of a colony collapse disorder (CCD) by administration of the neonicotinoids dinotefuran and clothianidin in our previous work, regardless of the vehicles. In addition, a failure in wintering was observed in case of administration of dinotefuran with the lowest concentration in this work even if the colony appeared vigorous before winter.\nWe can infer that a CCD and a failure in wintering may have the same roots of chronic toxicity of neonicotinoids under conditions of low concentrations due to the persistency and high toxicity which are characteristic of them.', u'Neonicotinoides are persistent and highly toxic pesticides that have become popular instead of organophosphates, being suspected to be a trigger of massive disappearance of bees that raises concern in the world. The evaluation of the long-term influence for a whole colony in the natural environment is, however, not established yet. In this paper, we conducted a long-term field experiment and found different impacts on honeybee colonies (Apis mellifera) in an apiary between the neonicotinoid dinotefuran and the organophosphate fenitrothion even though whose concentrations in sugar syrup provided for bees were adjusted to have nearly equal short-term effects on a honeybee based on the median lethal dose (LD50) as well as the insecticidal activity to exterminate stinkbugs. \nThe colony with administration of dinotefran (dinotefuran colony) became extinct in 26 days, while the colony with administration of fenitrothion (fenitrothion colony) survived the administration for the same period. Furthermore, the fenitrothion colony succeeded to be alive for more than 293 days after administration, and also succeeded an overwintering, which indicates that colonies exposed to fenitrothion can recover after the exposure.\nMeanwhile, the dinotefuran colony became extinct even though the intake of dinotefuran was estimated to be comparable with that of fenitrothion in terms of the LD50 of a honeybee. Moreover, the colonies in our previous long-term experiments where dinotefuran with higher concentration were administered only for first few days (Yamada et al., 2012) became extinct in 104 days and 162 days, respectively. From these results, we speculate that colonies exposed to dinotefuran hardly recover from the damage because dinotefuran is much more persistent than fenitrothion and toxic foods stored in cells can affect a colony in a long period.', u'Advances in electron cryomicroscopy allow for the building of de novo atomic models into high resolution Coulomb potential maps. While established validation metrics independently assess map quality and model geometry, methods to assess the precise fitting of an atomic model into the map and to validate the interpretation of high resolution features are less well developed. Here, we present EMRinger, which tests model-to-map agreement using side-chain dihedral-directed map density measurements. These measurements reveal local map density peaks and show that peaks located at rotameric angles are a sensitive marker of whether the backbone is correctly positioned. The EMRinger Score can be improved by model refinement, suggesting its utility as an effective model-to-map validation metric. Additionally, EMRinger sampling identifies how radiation damage alters scattering from negatively charged amino acids during data collection. EMRinger will be useful in assessing how advances in cryo-EM increase the ability to resolve and model high-resolution features.', u'Advances in empirical population genetics have made apparent the need for models that simultaneously account for selection and demography. To address this need, we here study the Wright-Fisher diffusion under selection and variable effective population size. In the case of genic selection and piecewise-constant effective population sizes, we obtain the transition density function by extending a recently developed method for computing an accurate spectral representation for a constant population size. Utilizing this extension, we show how to compute the sample frequency spectrum (SFS) in the presence of genic selection and an arbitrary number of instantaneous changes in the effective population size. We also develop an alternate, efficient algorithm for computing the SFS using a method of moments. We apply these methods to answer the following questions: If neutrality is incorrectly assumed when there is selection, what effects does it have on demographic parameter estimation? Can the impact of negative selection be observed in populations that undergo strong exponential growth?', u'Motivation: In silico enzymatic digestion tools mostly can be used for digestion of single sequence query, which means a significant limitation in their utility when a number of sequences need to be processed. The other limitation of these applications is the selection options of restriction enzymes that are usually allow only simultaneous digestion. Non-conventional proteins such as cereal prolamins require multi-enzyme multi step digestion, and for cereal proteomics experts this type of application is missing. \nResults: PDMQ, Protein Digestion Multi Query application was developed having multi query and multi enzyme options and that way can be customized for any digestion protocol.\nAvailability and implementation: PDMQ is implemented in C# using the .NET framework and can be downloaded from http://www.agrar.mta.hu/_user/browser/File/bioinformatics/ProteinDigestion_v0_0_0_15.rar', u'Visualization and analysis of molecular profiling data together with biological networks\nare able to provide new mechanistical insights into biological functions.\nCurrently, high-throughput data are usually visualized\non top of predefined network layouts which are not always adapted to a given data analysis task.\nWe developed a Cytoscape app which allows to construct biological network layouts based\non the data from molecular profiles imported as values of nodes attributes.\n\nDeDaL is a Cytoscape 3.0 app which uses linear and non-linear algorithms of dimension reduction to produce\ndata-driven network layouts based on multidimensional data (typically gene expression).\nDeDaL implements several data pre-processing and layout\npost-processing steps such as continuous\nmorphing between two arbitrary network layouts and aligning one\nnetwork layout with respect to another one by rotating and mirroring.\nCombining these possibilities facilitates creating insightful\nnetwork layouts representing both structural network features\nand the correlation patterns in multivariate data.\n\nDeDaL is the first method allowing to construct biological network layouts from high-throughput data.\nDeDaL is freely available for downloading together with step-by-step tutorial at http://bioinfo-out.curie.fr/projects/dedal/.', u'Protein database search is one of the fundamental problems in bioinformatics. For decades, it has been explored and solved using different exact and heuristic approaches. However, exponential growth of data in size in recent years has brought significant challenges in improving already existing algorithms. BLASTP has been the most successful tool for protein\ndatabase search, but is also becoming a bottleneck in many applications.\nDue to that, many different approaches have been developed to complement or replace BLASTP. In this paper, we present SWORD, an efficient protein database search implementation that runs 3-4 faster than BLASTP in the sensitive mode and up to 18 faster in the fast and less accurate mode and also provides guaranteed optimal alignments for candidate sequences.\nSWORD is designed to be used in nearly all database search environments,but is especially suitable for large databases. Its sensitivity exceeds that of\nBLASTP for majority of input datasets.', u'Transport of cells and biochemical molecules often takes place in crowded, heterogeneous environments. As such, it is important we understand how to quantify crowded transport phenomena, and the possibilities of extracting transport coefficients from limited observations. We employ a volume-excluding random walk model on a square lattice where different fractions of lattice sites are filled with inert, immobile obstacles to investigate whether it is possible to estimate parameters associated with transport when crowding is present. By collecting and analysing data obtained on multiple spatial scales we demonstrate that commonly used models of motility within crowded environments can be used to reliably predict our random walk data. However, infeasibly large amounts of data are needed to estimate transport parameters, and quantitative estimates may differ depending on the spatial scale on which they are collected. We also demonstrate that in models of crowded environments there is a relatively large region of the parameter space within which it is difficult to distinguish between  the "best fit" parameter values. This suggests commonly used descriptions of transport within crowded systems may not be appropriate, and that we should be careful in choosing models to represent the effects of crowding upon motility within biochemical systems.', u"Explaining the origin and evolutionary dynamics of the genetic architecture of adaptation is a major research goal of evolutionary genetics. Despite controversy surrounding success of the attempts to accomplish this goal, a full understanding of adaptive genetic variation necessitates knowledge about the genomic location and patterns of dispersion for the genetic components affecting fitness-related phenotypic traits. Even with advances in next generation sequencing technologies, the production of full genome sequences for non-model species is often cost prohibitive, especially for tree species such as pines where genome size often exceeds 20 to 30 Gbp. We address this need by constructing a dense linkage map for fox- tail pine (Pinus balfouriana Grev. & Balf.), with the ultimate goal of uncovering and explaining the origin and evolutionary dynamics of adaptive genetic variation in natural populations of this forest tree species. We utilized megagametophyte arrays (n = 76?95 megagametophytes/tree) from four maternal trees in combination with double-digestion restriction site associated DNA sequencing (ddRADseq) to produce a consensus linkage map covering 98.58% of the foxtail pine genome, which was estimated to be 1276 cM in length (95% CI: 1174cM to 1378cM). A novel bioinformatic approach using iterative rounds of marker ordering and imputation was employed to produce single-tree linkage maps (507?17066 contigs/map; lengths: 1037.40?1572.80 cM). These linkage maps were collinear across maternal trees, with highly correlated marker orderings (Spearman's \u03c1 > 0.95). A consensus linkage map derived from these single-tree linkage maps contained 12 linkage groups along which 20 655 contigs were non-randomly distributed across 901 unique positions (n = 23 contigs/position), with an average spacing of 1.34 cM between adjacent positions. Of the 20 655 contigs positioned on the consensus linkage map, 5627 had enough sequence similarity to contigs contained within the most recent build of the loblolly pine (P. taeda L.) genome to identify them as putative homologs containing both genic and non-genic loci. Importantly, all 901 unique positions on the consensus linkage map had at least one contig with putative homology to loblolly pine. When combined with the other biological signals that predominate in our data (e.g., correlations of recombination fractions across single trees), we show that dense linkage maps for non-model forest tree species can be efficiently constructed using next generation sequencing technologies. We subsequently discuss the usefulness of these maps as community-wide resources and as tools with which to test hypotheses about the genetic architecture of adaptation.", u'Sleep and circadian rhythms are ancient, related biological phenomena controlled by distinct neuronal circuits, whose appropriate regulation is critical for health. Whereas the regulatory machinery underlying sleep homeostasis is ill-defined, the biological clock mechanism is better understood: from cell-intrinsic feedback loops of \u2018clock gene\u2019 expression to circuits that facilitate rhythmic behavior. Age- and neurodegeneration related deterioration in sleep/wake timing was first described in humans decades ago, but has only recently been recapitulated in model organisms. In order to delineate the causal relationships between aging, sleep, neuronal function and the molecular clockwork, we have developed FLYGLOW, a broadly applicable bioluminescence-based system which allows rest/activity cycles, sleep consolidation and molecular clock gene expression to be quantified simultaneously in dozens of individual flies over many days/weeks. We show that FLYGLOW outperforms existing methods, and demonstrate the utility of the multiparameter correlational analyses within and between flies that it enables. We go on to show unambiguously that peripheral cellular rhythms can free-run independently of the central pacemakers that drive behavioural cycles. Finally, using a fly model of Alzheimer\u2019s disease (AD) we observe a profound disorganization of sleep and activity cycles, that phenocopies the human disease.', u"An enduring challenge in ecology is to understand how diverse plant species coexist when competing for the same basic resources. Two candidate frameworks for meeting this challenge currently exist in forest ecology. Niche-based approaches succeed in describing successional dynamics in response to recurrent disturbances. Approaches based on Hubbell's neutral theory describe abundance patterns in highly diverse communities. Yet both theories are unsuccessful where their competitor is strong, highlighting an enduring need for reconciliation. In fact, the perception that niche and neutral processes are incompatible may have arisen because both types of models have lacked some critical features of real forests. Here we report a productive reconciliation that arises from extending niche models to include three ubiquitous features of vegetation: (1) plant growth under light competition, (2) multiple trait-mediated tradeoffs in plant function, and (3) evolutionary community assembly. We show that fitness equivalence \u2013 which neutral theory controversially takes as an assumption \u2013 naturally arises as a mechanistic outcome of niche differentiation, but only within a specific region of trait space, corresponding to shade-tolerant later-successional strategies. In this way, niche diversification can lead, via evolved neutrality, to a proliferation of shade-tolerant strategies, one of the phenomena that motivated the development of neutral theory. Earlier niche models focussed on a single growth-mortality trait and found no evolved neutrality. In contrast, the model introduced here includes a second trait, height at maturation, in addition to a growth-mortality trait in the form of leaf-construction cost. We show that fitness equivalence only emerges when diversifications include this second trait. We also demonstrate that our extended niche model generates markedly different forest types under different environmental conditions, recovering known biogeographic patterns. By evolving forests from first principles, our study constructively resolves the protracted debate about niche versus neutral dynamics for forest communities, and provides a platform for a synthetic theory of forest structure and diversity.", u'The reconstruction of gene regulatory networks from gene expression data has been the subject of intense research activity. A variety of models and methods have been developed to address different aspects of this important problem. However, these techniques are often difficult to scale, are narrowly focused on particular biological and experimental platforms, and require experimental data that are typically unavailable and difficult to ascertain. The more recent availability of higher-throughput sequencing platforms, combined with more precise modes of genetic perturbation, present an opportunity to formulate more robust and comprehensive approaches to gene network inference. Here, we propose a step-wise framework for identifying gene-gene regulatory interactions that expand from a known point of genetic or chemical perturbation using time series gene expression data. This novel approach sequentially identifies non-steady state genes post-perturbation and incorporates them into a growing series of low-complexity optimization problems. The governing ordinary differential equations of this model are rooted in the biophysics of stochastic molecular events that underlie gene regulation, delineating roles for both protein and RNA-mediated gene regulation. We show the successful application of our core algorithms for network inference using simulated and real datasets.', u'We present an exon-capture system for an entire class of marine invertebrates, the Ophiuroidea, built upon a phylogenetically diverse transcriptome foundation. The system captures ~90 percent of the 1552 exon target, across all major lineages of the quarter-billion year old extant crown group. Key features of our system are: 1) basing the target on an alignment of orthologous genes determined from 52 transcriptomes spanning the phylogenetic diversity and trimmed to remove anything difficult to capture, map or align, 2) use of multiple artificial representatives based on ancestral states rather than exemplars to improve capture and mapping of the target, 3) mapping reads to a multi-reference alignment, and 4) using patterns of site polymorphism to distinguish among paralogy, polyploidy, allelic differences and sample contamination. The resulting data gives a well-resolved tree (currently standing at 417 samples, 275,352 bp, 91% data-complete) that will transform our understanding of ophiuroid evolution and biogeography.', u'The well-known Waddington?s epigenetic landscape of cell-fate determination is not static but varies because of the dynamic gene regulation during development. However, existing mathematical models with few state variables and fixed parameters are inadequate in characterizing the temporal transformation of the landscape. Here we simulate a decision-switch model of gene regulation with more than two state variables and with time-varying repression among regulatory factors. We are able to demonstrate multi-lineage differentiation at different timescales that portrays the branching canals in Waddington?s illustration. We also present a repressilator-type system that activates suppressed genes via sustained oscillations in a flattened landscape, hence providing an alternative scheme for cellular reprogramming. The time-dependent parameters governed by gradient-based dynamics regulate cell differentiation, dedifferentiation and transdifferentiation. Our prediction integrates the theories of branching and structural oscillations in cell-fate determination, which reveals key temporal patterns of cell differentiation and associated diseases, such as cancer.\n\nKeywords: gene regulatory network, stem cells, pluripotency, synthetic biology, multistability, attractor\n\nNote: This paper has been accepted for publication in Progress in Biophysics and Molecular Biology (Elsevier). DOI of the peer-reviewed manuscript: 10.1016/j.pbiomolbio.2015.01.006', u'We consider a model of multilevel selection and the evolution of institutions that distribute power in the form of influence in a group\'s collective interactions with other groups. In the absence of direct group-level interactions, groups with the most cooperative members will outcompete less cooperative groups, while within any group the least cooperative members will be the most successful. Introducing group-level interactions, however, such as raiding or warfare, changes the selective landscape for groups. Our model suggests that as the global population becomes more integrated and the rate of intergroup conflict increases, selection increasingly favors unequally distributed power structures, where individual influence is weighted by acquired resources. The advantage to less democratic groups rests in their ability to facilitate selection for cooperative strategies \u2013 involving cooperation both among themselves and with outsiders \u2013 in order to produce the resources necessary to fuel their success in inter-group conflicts, while simultaneously selecting for leaders (and corresponding collective behavior) who are unburdened with those same prosocial norms. The coevolution of cooperative social norms and institutions of power facilitates the emergence of a leadership class of the selfish and has implications for theories of inequality, structures of governance, non-cooperative personality traits, and hierarchy. Our findings suggest an amendment to the well-known doctrine of multilevel selection that "Selfishness beats altruism within groups. Altruistic groups beat selfish groups." In an interconnected world, altruistic groups led by selfish individuals can beat them both.', u'Schizophrenia, obsessive-compulsive and autistic disorders are traditionally considered as three separate psychiatric conditions each with specific symptoms and pattern of brain alterations. This view can be challenged since these three conditions have the same neurobiological origin, stemming from a common root of a unique neurodevelopmental tree.\nThe aim of this meta-analytic study was to determine, from a neuroimaging perspective, whether i) white matter and gray matter alterations are specific for the three different spectrum disorders, and the nosographical differentiation of three spectra is supported by different patterns of brain alterations. ii) it might be possible to define new spectra starting from specific brain damage. iii) it is possible to detect a "brain damage network" (a connecting link between the damaged areas that relates areas constantly involved in the disorder).\nThree main findings emerged from our meta-analysis:\n1)\tThe three psychiatric spectra do not appear to have their own specific damage. \n2)\tIt is possible to define two new damage clusters. The first includes substantial parts of the salience network, and the second is more closely linked to the auditory-visual, auditory and visual somatic areas.  \n3)\tIt is possible to define a "Damage Network" and to infer a hierarchy of brain substrates in the pattern of propagation of the damage.\nThese results suggest the presence of a common pattern of damage in the three pathologies plus a series of variable alterations that, rather than support the sub-division into three spectra, highlight a two-cluster parcellation with an input-output and more cognitive clusters.', u'This article discusses problems with and solutions to performing valid\npermutation tests for quantitative trait loci in the presence of\npolygenic effects. Although permutation testing is a popular approach\nfor determining statistical significance of a test statistic with an\nunknown distribution--for instance, the maximum of multiple correlated\nstatistics or some omnibus test statistic for a gene, gene-set or\npathway--naive application of permutations may result in an invalid\ntest. The risk of performing an invalid permutation test is\nparticularly acute in complex trait mapping where polygenicity may\ncombine with a structured population resulting from the presence of\nfamilies, cryptic relatedness, admixture or population\nstratification. I give both analytical derivations and a conceptual\nunderstanding of why typical permutation procedures fail and suggest\nan alternative permutation based algorithm, MVNpermute, that\nsucceeds. In particular, I examine the case where a linear mixed model\nis used to analyze a quantitative trait and show that both phenotype\nand genotype permutations may result in an invalid permutation test. I\nprovide a formula that predicts the amount of inflation of the type 1\nerror rate depending on the degree of misspecification of the\ncovariance structure of the polygenic effect and the heritability of\nthe trait. I validate this formula by doing simulations, showing that\nthe permutation distribution matches the theoretical expectation, and\nthat my suggested permutation based test obtains the correct null\ndistribution. Finally, I discuss situations where naive permutations\nof the phenotype or genotype are valid and the applicability of the\nresults to other test statistics.', u'The direct proportional trend of the transition from systolic volume to systolic pressure can be proved theoretically with the help of circulatory numerical model. The model operates with compound parameter (anatomical portion of pipe, relation to the phase of cardiac cycle and pressure) which permits to adjust steady flow hydrodynamics to the description of the flow with interrupted indraft of pressure. The outstripping growth of systolic pressure (when diastolic pressure is rising with constant increment) is deduced and the above phenomenon can be observed if tracing systolic, diastolic and pulse pressures according to clinical gradation of arterial hypertension.', u"A large amount of studies of the last decades revealed an association between human behaviour and oscillatory activity in the human brain. Alike, abnormalities of oscillatory activity were related with pathological behaviour in many neuropsychiatric disorders, such as in Parkinson's disease (PD) or in schizophrenia (SCZ). As a therapeutic tool, non-invasive brain stimulation (NIBS) has demonstrated the potential to improve behavioural performance in patients suffering from neuropsychiatric disorders. Since evidence accumulates that NIBS might be able to modulate oscillatory activity and related behaviour in a scientific setting, this review focuses on discussing potential interventional strategies to target abnormalities in oscillatory activity in neuropsychiatric disorders. In particular, we will review oscillatory changes described in patients after stroke, with PD or suffering from SCZ. Potential ways of targeting interventionally the underlying pathological oscillations to improve related pathological behaviour will be further discussed.", u'Piwi-interacting piRNAs are a major and essential class of small RNAs in the animal germ cells with a prominent role in transposon control. Efficient piRNA biogenesis and function require a cohort of proteins conserved throughout the animal kingdom. Here we studied Maelstrom (MAEL), which is essential for piRNA biogenesis and germ cell differentiation in flies and mice. MAEL contains a high mobility group (HMG)-box domain and a Maelstrom-specific domain with a presumptive RNase H-fold. We employed a combination of sequence analyses, structural and biochemical approaches to evaluate and compare nucleic acid binding of mouse MAEL HMG-box to that of canonical HMG-box domain proteins (SRY and HMGB1a). MAEL HMG-box failed to bind double-stranded (ds)DNA but bound to structured RNA. We also identified important roles of a novel cluster of arginine residues in MAEL HMG-box in these interactions. Cumulatively, our results suggest that the MAEL HMG-box domain may contribute to MAEL function in selective processing of retrotransposon RNA into piRNAs. In this regard, a cellular role of MAEL HMG-box domain is reminiscent of that of HMGB1 as a sentinel of immunogenic nucleic acids in the innate immune response.', u"Epidemiological observations and molecular-level experiments have indicated that brain disorders in the realm of psychiatry may be influenced by immune dysregulation. However, the degree of genetic overlap between immune disorders and psychiatric disorders has not been well established. We investigated this issue by integrative analysis of genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of 18 complex human traits/diseases (five psychiatric disorders, seven autoimmune disorders, and others) and multiple genome-wide annotation resources (Central nervous system genes, immune-related expression-quantitative trait loci (eQTL) and DNase I hypertensive sites from 98 cell-lines). We detected pleiotropy in 24 of the 35 psychiatric-autoimmune disorder pairs, with statistical significance as strong as p=3.9e-285 (schizophrenia-rheumatoid arthritis). Strong enrichment (>1.4 fold) of immune-related eQTL was observed in four psychiatric disorders. Genomic regions responsible for pleiotropy between psychiatric disorders and autoimmune disorders were detected. The MHC region on chromosome 6 appears to be the most important (and it was indeed previously noted (1-3) as a confluence between schizophrenia and immune disorder risk regions), with many other regions, such as cytoband 1p13.2. We also found that most alleles shared between schizophrenia and Crohn's disease have the same effect direction, with similar trend found for other disorder pairs, such as bipolar-Crohn's disease. Our results offer a novel bird's-eye view of the genetic relationship and demonstrate strong evidence for mediated pleiotropy between psychiatric disorders and autoimmune disorders. Our findings might open new routes for prevention and treatment strategies for these disorders based on a new appreciation of the importance of immunological mechanisms in mediating risk.", u'Background: High frequency oscillations in the gamma range are known to be involved in early stages of auditory information processing in terms of synchronization of brain regions, e.g., in cognitive functions. It has been shown using EEG source localisation, as well as simultaneously recorded EEG-fMRI, that the auditory evoked gamma-band response (aeGBR) is modulated by attention. In addition to auditory cortex activity a dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (dACC) generator could be involved. In the present study we investigated aeGBR magnetic fields using magnetoencephalography (MEG). We aimed to localize the aeGBR sources and its connectivity features in relation to mental effort. \nMethods: We investigated the aeGBR magnetic fields in 13 healthy participants using a 275-channel CTF-MEG system. The experimental paradigms were two auditory choice reaction tasks with different difficulties and demands for mental effort. We performed source localization with eLORETA and calculated the aeGBR lagged phase synchronization between bilateral auditory cortices and frontal midline structures.\nResults: The eLORETA analysis revealed sources of the aeGBR within bilateral auditory cortices and in frontal midline structures of the brain including the dACC. Compared to the control condition the dACC source activity was found to be significantly stronger during the performance of the cognitively demanding task. Moreover, this task involved a significantly stronger functional connectivity between auditory cortices and dACC.\nConclusion: In accordance with previous EEG and EEG-fMRI investigations, our study confirms an aeGBR generator in the dACC by means of MEG and suggests its involvement in the effortful processing of auditory stimuli.', u'The integration of sensory signals from different modalities requires flexible interaction of remote brain areas. One candidate mechanism to establish local and long-range communication in the brain is transient synchronization of neural assemblies. In addition to the analysis of oscillatory power, assessment of the phase dynamics of multiple brain signals is a promising avenue to examine the integration of distributed information in multisensory networks.\nIn the current study, human participants were engaged in a visual-tactile pattern matching task while high-density electroencephalograms (EEG) were recorded. To investigate the neural correlates of multisensory integration and assess effects of crossmodal stimulus congruence, we adapted an approach for purely data-driven analysis of neuronal coupling in source space that has recently been developed within our group. This method allows imaging of large-scale cortical networks in space, time and frequency without defining a priori constraints.\nWe identified three clusters of interacting sources that synchronized in the beta-band (\u223c 20 Hz). The spatial and spectro-temporal profile of the first two clusters suggest an involvement in crossmodal sensory processing, whereas the third cluster appears to reflect decision-related processes. By directly relating coupling features to task performance, we demonstrate that the phase of neural coherence within the observed networks predicts behavior. Our results provide further evidence that neural synchronization is crucial for long-range communication in the brain and suggest a possible role of beta-band activity in multisensory integration.', u'Summary: Cell differentiation processes are achieved through a continuum of hierarchical intermediate cell-states that might be captured by single-cell RNA seq. Existing computational approaches for the assessment of cell-state hierarchies from single-cell data might be formalized under a general framework composed of i) a metric to assess cell-to-cell similarities (combined or not with a dimensionality reduction step), and ii) a graph-building algorithm (optionally making use of a cells-clustering step). Sincell R package implements a methodological toolbox allowing flexible workflows under such framework. Furthermore, Sincell contributes new algo-rithms to provide cell-state hierarchies with statistical support while accounting for stochastic factors in single-cell RNA seq. Graphical representations and functional association tests are provided to interpret hierarchies. Sincell functionalities are illustrated in a real case study where its ability to discriminate noisy from stable cell-state hierarchies is demonstrated.\nAvailability and implementation: Sincell is an open-source R/Bioconductor package available at http://bioconductor.org/packages/3.1/bioc/html/sincell.html. A detailed vignette describing functions and workflows is provided with the package.', u'The mind is a biological phenomenon. Thus, biological principles of organization should also be the principles underlying mental operations. Practopoiesis states that the key for achieving intelligence through adaptation is an arrangement in which mechanisms laying a lower level of organization, by their operations and interaction with the environment, enable creation of mechanisms lying at a higher level of organization. When such an organizational advance of a system occurs, it is called a traverse. A case of traverse is when plasticity mechanisms (at a lower level of organization), by their operations, create a neural network anatomy (at a higher level of organization). Another case is the actual production of behavior by that network, whereby the mechanisms of neuronal activity operate to create motor actions. Practopoietic theory explains why the adaptability of a system increases with each increase in the number of traverses. With a larger number of traverses, a system can be relatively small and yet, produce a higher degree of adaptive/intelligent behavior than a system with a lower number of traverses. The present analyses indicate that the two well-known traverses\u2014neural plasticity and neural activity\u2014are not sufficient to explain human mental capabilities. At least one additional traverse is needed, which is named anapoiesis for its contribution in reconstructing knowledge e.g., from long-term memory into working memory. The conclusions bear implications for brain theory, the mind-body explanatory gap, and developments of artificial intelligence technologies.', u'Motivation: DNA sequencing instruments are enabling genomic analyses of unprecedented scope and scale, widening the gap between our abilities to generate and interpret sequence data. Established methods for computational sequence analysis generally use nucleotide-level resolution of sequences, and while such approaches can be very accurate, increasingly ambitious and data-intensive analyses are rendering them impractical for applications such as genome and metagenome assembly. Comparable analytical challenges are encountered in other data-intensive fields involving sequential data, such as signal processing, in which dimensionality reduction methods are routinely used to reduce the computational burden of analyses. We therefore seek to address the question of whether it is possible to improve the efficiency of sequence alignment by applying dimensionality reduction methods to numerically represented nucleotide sequences. \nResults: To explore the applicability of signal transformation and dimensionality reduction methods to sequence assembly, we implemented a short read aligner and evaluated its performance against simulated high diversity viral sequences alongside four existing aligners. Using our sequence transformation and feature selection approach, alignment time was reduced by up to 14-fold compared to uncompressed sequences and without reducing alignment accuracy. Despite using highly compressed sequence transformations, our implementation yielded alignments of similar overall accuracy to existing aligners, outperforming all other tools tested at high levels of sequence variation. Our approach was also applied to the de novo assembly of a simulated diverse viral population. Our results demonstrate that full sequence resolution is not a prerequisite of accurate sequence alignment and that analytical performance can be retained and even enhanced through appropriate dimensionality reduction of sequences.', u'Copper is essential for life but toxic, therefore all organisms control tightly its intracellular abundance. Bacteria have indeed whole operons devoted to copper resistance, with genes that code for efflux pumps, oxidases, etc. Recently, the CopM protein of the CopMRS operon was described as a novel important element for copper tolerance in Synechocystis. This protein consists of a domain of unknown function, and was proposed to act as a periplasmic/extracellular copper binder. This work describes a bioinformatic study of CopM including structural models based on homology modeling and on residue coevolution, to help expand on its recent biochemical characterization. The protein is predicted to be periplasmic but membrane-anchored, not secreted. Two disordered regions are predicted, both possibly involved in protein-protein interactions. The 3D models disclose a 4-helix bundle with several potential copper-binding sites, most of them largely buried inside the bundle lumen. Some of the predicted copper-binding sites involve residues from the disordered regions, suggesting they could gain structure upon copper binding and thus possibly modulate the interactions they mediate. All the models are provided as PDB files in the Supporting Information.', u'The Ebola epidemic is having a devastating impact in West Africa. Sequencing of Ebola viruses from infected individuals has revealed extensive genetic variation, leading to speculation that the virus may be adapting to the human host and accounting for the scale of the 2014 outbreak.  We show that so far there is no evidence for adaptation of EBOV to humans.  We analyze the putatively functional changes associated with the current and previous Ebola outbreaks, and find no significant molecular changes.  Observed amino acid replacements have minimal effect on protein structure, being neither stabilizing nor destabilizing.  Replacements are not found in regions of the proteins associated with known functions and tend to occur in disordered regions. This observation indicates that the difference between the current and previous outbreaks is not due to the observed evolutionary change of the virus. Instead, epidemiological factors must be responsible for the unprecedented spread of EBOV.', u'We present a population density and moment-based description of the stochastic dynamics of domain Ca-mediated inactivation of L-type Ca channels. Our approach accounts for the effect of heterogeneity of local Ca signals on whole cell Ca currents; however, in contrast with prior work, e.g., Sherman et al. (1990), we do not assume that Ca domain formation and collapse are fast compared to channel gating.  We demonstrate the population density and moment-based modeling approaches using a 12-state Markov chain model of an L-type Ca channel introduced by Greenstein and Winslow (2002).   Simulated whole cell voltage clamp responses yield an inactivation function for the whole cell Ca current that agrees with the traditional approach when domain dynamics are fast. We analyze the voltage-dependence of Ca inactivation that may occur via slow heterogeneous domains. Next, we find that when channel permeability is held constant, Ca-mediated inactivation of L-type channel increases as the domain time constant increases, because a slow domain collapse rate leads to increased mean domain [Ca] near open channels; conversely, when the maximum domain [Ca] is held constant, inactivation decreases as the domain time constant increases.  Comparison of simulation results using population densities and moment equations confirms the computational efficiency of the moment-based approach, and enables the validation of two distinct methods of truncating and closing the open system of moment equations.    In general, a slow domain time constant requires higher order moment truncation for agreement between moment-based and population density simulations.', u'Through theoretical analysis of the statistics of stochastic calcium (Ca) release (i.e., the amplitude, duration and inter-event interval of simulated Ca puffs and sparks), we show that a Langevin description of the collective gating of Ca channels may be a good approximation to the corresponding Markov chain model when the number of Ca channels per Ca release unit (CaRU) is in the physiological range.  The Langevin description of stochastic Ca release facilitates our investigation of correlations between successive puff/spark amplitudes, durations and inter-spark intervals, and how such puff/spark statistics depend on the number of channels per release site and the kinetics of Ca-mediated inactivation of open channels. When Ca inactivation/de-inactivation rates are intermediate---i.e., the termination of Ca puff/sparks is caused by the recruitment of inactivated channels---the correlation between successive puff/spark amplitudes is negative, while the correlations between puff/spark amplitudes and the duration of the preceding or subsequent inter-spark interval are positive. These correlations are significantly reduced when inactivation/de-inactivation rates are extreme (slow or fast) and puff/sparks terminate via stochastic attrition.', u'The genetic basis of species differences remains understudied. Studies in insects have contributed significantly to our understanding of morphological evolution. Pigmentation traits in particular have received a great deal of attention and several genes in the insect pigmentation pathway have been implicated in inter- and intraspecific differences. Nonetheless, much remains unknown about many of the genes in this pathway and their potential role in understudied taxa. Here we genetically analyze the puparium color difference between members of the Virilis group of Drosophila. The puparium of Drosophila virilis is black, while those of D. americana, D. novamexicana, and D. lummei are brown. We used a series of backcross hybrid populations between D. americana and D. virilis to map the genomic interval responsible for the difference between this species pair. First, we show that the pupal case color difference is caused by a single Mendelizing factor, which we ultimately map to an ~11kb region on chromosome 5. The mapped interval includes only the first exon and regulatory region(s) of the dopamine N-acetyltransferase gene (Dat). This gene encodes an enzyme that is known to play a part in the insect pigmentation pathway. Second, we show that this gene is highly expressed at the onset of pupation in light-brown taxa (D. americana and D. novamexicana) relative to D. virilis, but not in the dark-brown D. lummei. Finally, we examine the role of Dat in adult pigmentation between D. americana (heavily melanized) and D. novamexicana (lightly melanized) and find no discernible effect of this gene in adults. Our results demonstrate that a single gene is entirely or almost entirely responsible for a morphological difference between species.', u"Neuroinflammation in utero may contribute to brain injury resulting in life long neurological disabilities. The pivotal role of the efferent cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway (CAP) in controlling inflammation has been described in adults, but its importance in the fetus is unknown. Moreover, it is unknown whether CAP may also exert anti-inflammatory effects on the brain via CAP's afferent component of the vagus nerve. Based on multiple clinical studies in adults and our own work in fetal autonomic nervous system, we gauged the degree of CAP activity in vivo using heart rate variability measures reflecting fluctuations in vagus nerve activity. Measuring microglial activation in the ovine fetal brain near-term, we show in vivo that afferent fetal CAP may translate increased vagal cholinergic signaling into suppression of cerebral inflammation in response to near-term hypoxic acidemia as might occur during labour. Our findings suggest a new control mechanism of fetal neuroinflammation via the vagus nerve, providing novel possibilities for its non-invasive monitoring in utero and for targeted treatment.", u'In the Evolve and Resequence method (E&R), experimental evolution and genomics are combined to investigate evolutionary dynamics and the genotype-phenotype link. This approach requires many replicates with large population sizes, which imposes severe restrictions on the analysis of behavioral phenotypes. Aiming to use E&R for investigating the evolution of behavior in Drosophila, we have developed a simple and effective method to assess spontaneous olfactory preferences and learning in large samples of fruit flies using a T-maze. We tested this procedure on (a) a large wild-caught population and (b) 11 isofemale lines of Drosophila melanogaster. Compared to previous methods, this procedure reduces the environmental noise and allows for the analysis of large population samples. Consistent with previous results, we show that flies have a spontaneous preference for orange vs. apple odor. With our procedure wild-derived flies exhibit olfactory learning in the absence of previous laboratory selection. Furthermore, we find genetic differences in the olfactory learning with relatively high heritability. We propose this large-scale method as an effective tool for E&R and genome-wide association studies on olfactory preferences and learning.', u'Transcription factors (TFs) play multiple roles in different cells and stages of development. Given this multitude of functional roles it has been assumed that TFs are evolutionarily highly constrained. Here we investigate the molecular mechanisms for the origin of a derived functional interaction between two TFs that play a key role in mammalian pregnancy, HOXA11 and FOXO1. We have previously shown that the regulatory role of HOXA11 in mammalian endometrial stromal cells requires an interaction with FOXO1, and that the physical interaction between these proteins evolved long before their functional cooperativity. Through a combination of functional, biochemical, and structural approaches, we demonstrate that the derived functional cooperativity between HOXA11 and FOXO1 is due to derived allosteric regulation of HOXA11 by FOXO1. This study shows that TF function can evolve through changes affecting the functional output of a pre-existing protein complex.', u'While most current high-throughput DNA sequencing technologies generate short reads with low error rates, emerging sequencing technologies generate long reads with high error rates. A basic question of interest is the tradeoff between read length and error rate in terms of the information needed for the perfect assembly of the genome. Using an adversarial erasure error model, we make progress on this problem by establishing a critical read length, as a function of the genome and the error rate, above which perfect assembly is guaranteed. For several real genomes, including those from the GAGE dataset, we verify that this critical read length is not significantly greater than the read length required for perfect assembly from reads without errors.', u'In the absence of sensory stimulation or motor output, the brain exhibits complex spatiotemporal patterns of intrinsically generated neural activity. However, little is known about how such patterns of activity are correlated between cortical and subcortical brain areas. Here, we investigate the large-scale correlation structure of ongoing cortical and superior colliculus (SC) activity across multiple spatial and temporal scales. Cortico-tectal interaction was characterized by correlated fluctuations in the amplitude of delta, spindle, low gamma and high frequency oscillations (> 100 Hz). Of these identified coupling modes, topographical patterns of high frequency coupling were the most consistent with anatomical connectivity, and reflected synchronized spiking in cortico-tectal networks. Ongoing high frequency cortico-tectal coupling was temporally governed by the phase of slow cortical oscillations. Collectively, our findings show that cortico-tectal networks can be resolved through the correlation structure of ongoing neural activity, and demonstrate the rich information conveyed by high frequency electrocorticographic signals.', u'Individuals within a species vary in their responses to a wide range of stimuli, partly as a result of differences in their genetic makeup. Relatively little is known about the genetic and neuronal mechanisms contributing to diversity of behavior in natural populations. By studying animal-to-animal variation in innate avoidance behavior to thermal stimuli in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, we uncovered genetic principles of how different components of a behavioral response can be altered in nature to generate behavioral diversity. Using a thermal pulse assay, we uncovered heritable variation in responses to a transient temperature increase. Quantitative trait locus mapping revealed that separate components of this response were controlled by distinct genomic loci. The loci we identified contributed to variation in components of thermal pulse avoidance behavior in an additive fashion. Our results show that the escape behavior induced by thermal stimuli is composed of simpler behavioral components that are influenced by at least six distinct genetic loci. The loci that decouple components of the escape behavior reveal a genetic system that allows independent modification of behavioral parameters.  Our work sets the foundation for future studies of evolution of innate behaviors at the molecular and neuronal level.', u'Influencing choice behavior is key to achieving behavioral change. Traditional means to influence choice behavior rely on effortful self control, which is known to be fragile under several circumstances, rendering these methods ineffectual in maintaining any change in behavior over time. Behavioral maintenance efforts are likely more effective over the long term if they target more automatic processes such as attention or memory. Memories are not set in stone and are vulnerable to change and updating under certain circumstances when retrieved. It is possible to target specific memories for updating. In two studies, we sought to update the memory for an appetitive choice by way of reversal learning following retrieval of the targeted choice behavior. We found that targeting memories of a choice behavior for updating shortly after a reminder did not significantly attenuate the renewal of the targeted choice under extinction conditions. Possible explanations and suggested future directions are discussed.', u'Background: Studies of diversification and trait evolution increasingly rely on combining molecular sequences and fossil dates to infer time-calibrated phylogenetic trees.  Available calibration software provides many options for the shape of the prior probability distribution of ages at a node to be calibrated, but the question of how to assign a Bayesian prior from limited fossil data remains open.  \n\nResults: We introduce two new methods for generating priors based upon (1) the interval between the two oldest fossils in a clade, i.e., the penultimate gap (PenG), and (2) the ghost lineage length (GLin), defined as the difference between the oldest fossils for each of two sister lineages. We show that PenG and GLin/2 are point estimates of the interval between the oldest fossil and the true age for the node. Furthermore, given either of these quantities, we derive a principled prior distribution for the true age.  This prior is log-logistic, and can be implemented approximately in existing software.  Using simulated data, we test these new methods against some other approaches.  \n\nConclusions: When implemented as approaches for assigning Bayesian priors, the PenG and GLin methods increase the accuracy of inferred divergence times, showing considerably more precision than the other methods tested, without significantly greater bias.  When implemented as approaches to post-hoc scaling of a tree by linear regression, the PenG and GLin methods exhibit less bias than other methods tested.  The new methods are simple to use and can be applied to a variety of studies that call for calibrated trees.', u'Identifying accurately species is critical for our understanding of patterns of diversity and speciation. However, for many organisms with simple and variable morphological traits, the characters traditionally used by taxonomists to identify species might lead to a considerable under appreciation of their diversity. Recent advances in molecular-data based computational methods have considerably improved our ability to identify and test species limits. Here, we use an integrative approach to delineate species in a complex of sea cucumbers. We used a three-step approach to show that Holothuria impatiens, a common, shallow-water species, occurring across the Indo-Pacific, the Western Atlantic and the Mediterranean Sea, targeted locally by fisheries, is a complex of at least 13 species. (1) We used the Generalized Mixed Yule Coalescent (GMYC) model to identify putative species a priori hypotheses. In the process, we also show that the number of putative species estimated with GMYC can be affected  considerably by the priors used to build the input tree. (2) We assessed based on coloration patterns and distributional information, the most relevant hypothesis. This approach allowed us to identify unambiguously 9 species. However, some of the lineages consistently assigned to belong to different species using GMYC, are occurring in sympatry and are not  differentiated morphologically. (3) We used Bayes factors to compare competing models of species assignment using the multispecies coalescent as implemented in *BEAST. This approach allowed us to validate that the species identified using GMYC were likely reproductively isolated. Estimates of the timing of diversification also showed that these species diverged less than 2 Ma, which is the fastest case of closely related species occurring in sympatry for a marine metazoan. Our study demonstrates how clarifying species limits contribute to refining our understanding of speciation.', u'Recent work has demonstrated that some functional categories of the genome contribute disproportionately to the heritability of complex diseases.  Here, we analyze a broad set of functional elements, including cell-type-specific elements, to estimate their polygenic contributions to heritability in genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of 17 complex diseases and traits spanning a total of 1.3 million phenotype measurements. To enable this analysis, we introduce a new method for partitioning heritability from GWAS summary statistics while controlling for linked markers. This new method is computationally tractable at very large sample sizes, and leverages genome-wide information. Our results include a large enrichment of heritability in conserved regions across many traits; a very large immunological disease-specific enrichment of heritability in FANTOM5 enhancers; and many cell-type-specific enrichments including significant enrichment of central nervous system cell types in body mass index, age at menarche, educational attainment, and smoking behavior. These results demonstrate that GWAS can aid in understanding the biological basis of disease and provide direction for functional follow-up.', u'Annotators of text corpora and biomedical databases carry out the same labor-intensive task to manually extract structured data from unstructured text. Tasks are needlessly repeated because text corpora are widely scattered. We envision that a linked annotation resource unifying many corpora could be a game changer. Such an open forum will help focus on novel annotations and on optimally benefiting from the energy of many experts. As proof-of-concept, we annotated protein subcellular localization in 100 abstracts cited by UniProtKB. The detailed comparison between our new corpus and the original UniProtKB annotations revealed sustained novel annotations for 42% of the entries (proteins). In a unified linked annotation resource these could immediately extend the utility of text corpora beyond the text-mining community. Our example motivates the central idea that linked annotations from text corpora can complement database annotations.', u'Nanopore-based single-molecule sequencing techniques exploit ionic current steps produced as\nbiomolecules pass through a pore to reconstruct properties of the sequence. A key task in analyzing\ncomplex nanopore data is discovering the boundaries between these steps, which has traditionally\nbeen done in research labs by hand. We present an automated method of analyzing nanopore data,\nby detecting regions of ionic current corresponding to the translocation of a biomolecule, and then segmenting\nthe region. The segmenter uses a divide-and-conquer method to recursively discover boundary\npoints, with an implementation that works several times faster than real time and that can handle low-pass\nfiltered signals.', u'Estimates for the number of species in the sea vary by orders of magnitude. Molecular taxonomy can greatly speed up screening for diversity and evaluating species boundaries, while gaining\ninsights into the biology of the species. DNA barcoding with a region of cytochrome oxidase 1\n(COI) is now widely used as a first pass for molecular evaluation of diversity, as it has good potential for identifying cryptic species and improving our understanding of marine biodiversity.\nWe present the results of a large scale barcoding effort for holothuroids (sea cucumbers). We sequenced 3048 individuals from numerous localities spanning the diversity of habitats in which the\ngroup occurs, with a particular focus in the shallow tropics (Indo-Pacific and Caribbean) and the\nAntarctic region. The number of cryptic species is much higher than currently recognized. The\nvast majority of sister species have allopatric distributions, with species showing genetic differentiation between ocean basins, and some are even differentiated among archipelagos. However,\nmany closely related and sympatric forms, that exhibit distinct color patterns and/or ecology, show\nlittle differentiation in, and cannot be separated by, COI sequence data. This pattern is much more\ncommon among echinoderms than among molluscs or arthropods, and suggests that echinoderms\nacquire reproductive isolation at a much faster pace than other marine phyla. Understanding the\ncauses behind such patterns will refine our understanding of diversification and biodiversity in\nthe sea.', u"Background: Analysing tumour architecture for metastatic potential usually focuses on phenotypic differences due to cellular morphology or specific genetic mutations, but often ignore the cell's position within the heterogeneous substructure. Similar disregard for local neighborhood structure is common in mathematical models. \n\nMethods: We view the dynamics of disease progression as an evolutionary game between cellular phenotypes. A typical assumption in this modeling paradigm is that the probability of a given phenotypic strategy interacting with another depends exclusively on the abundance of those strategies without regard local heterogeneities. We address this limitation by using the Ohtsuki-Nowak transform to introduce spatial structure to the go vs. grow game. \n\nResults: We show that spatial structure can promote the invasive (go) strategy. By considering the change in neighbourhood size at a static boundary -- such as a blood-vessel, organ capsule, or basement membrane -- we show an edge effect that allows a tumour without invasive phenotypes in the bulk to have a polyclonal boundary with invasive cells. We present an example of this promotion of invasive (EMT positive) cells in a metastatic colony of prostate adenocarcinoma in bone marrow. \n\nInterpretation: Pathologic analyses that do not distinguish between cells in the bulk and cells at a static edge of a tumour can underestimate the number of invasive cells. We expect our approach to extend to other evolutionary game models where interaction neighborhoods change at fixed system boundaries.", u'Genomic instability is a hallmark of cancer and, as such, structural alterations and fusion genes are common events in the cancer landscape.  RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) is a powerful method for profiling cancers, but current methods for identifying fusion genes are optimized for short reads.  JAFFA (https://code.google.com/p/jaffa-project/) is a sensitive fusion detection method that clearly out-performs other methods with reads of 100bp or greater. JAFFA compares a cancer transcriptome to the reference transcriptome, rather than the genome, where the cancer transcriptome is inferred using long reads directly or by de novo assembling short reads.', u'Protein-coding genes evolve at different rates, and the influence of different parameters, from gene size to expression level, has been extensively studied. While in yeast gene expression level is the major causal factor of gene evolutionary rate, the situation is more complex in animals. Here we investigate these relations further, especially taking in account gene expression in different organs as well as indirect correlations between parameters. We used RNA-seq data from two large datasets, covering 22 mouse tissues and 27 human tissues. Over all tissues, evolutionary rate only correlates weakly with levels and breadth of expression. The strongest explanatory factors of strong purifying selection are GC content, expression in many developmental stages, and expression in brain tissues. While the main component of evolutionary rate is purifying selection, we also find tissue-specific patterns for sites under neutral evolution and for positive selection. We observe fast evolution of genes expressed in testis, but also in other tissues, notably liver, which are explained by weak purifying selection rather than by positive selection.', u'The folding of most integral membrane proteins follows a two-step\n  process: Initially, individual transmembrane helices are inserted\n  into the membrane by the Sec translocon. Thereafter, these helices\n  fold to shape the final conformation of the protein.  However, for\n  some proteins, including Aquaporin 1 (AQP1), the folding appears to\n  follow a more complicated path.  AQP1 has been reported to first\n  insert as a four-helical intermediate, where helix 2 and 4 are not\n  inserted into the membrane. In a second step this intermediate is\n  folded into a six-helical topology.  During this process, the\n  orientation of the third helix is inverted. Here, we propose a\n  mechanism for how this reorientation could be initiated: First,\n  helix 3 slides out from the membrane core resulting in that the\n  preceding loop enters the membrane. The final conformation could\n  then be formed as helix 2, 3 and 4 are inserted into the membrane\n  and the reentrant regions come together. We find support for the\n  first step in this process by showing that the loop preceding helix\n  3 can insert into the membrane. Further, hydrophobicity curves,\n  experimentally measured insertion efficiencies and MD-simulations\n  suggest that the barrier between these two hydrophobic regions is\n  relatively low, supporting the idea that helix 3 can slide out of\n  the membrane core, initiating the rearrangement process', u'The translocon recognizes transmembrane helices with sufficient\n  level of hydrophobicity and inserts them into the membrane. However,\n  sometimes less hydrophobic helices are also recognized.  Positive\n  inside rule, orientational preferences of and specific interactions\n  with neighboring helices have been shown to aid in the recognition\n  of these helices, at least in artificial systems. To better\n  understand how the translocon inserts marginally hydrophobic\n  helices, we studied three \\red{naturally occurring marginally\n    hydrophobic} helices, which were previously shown to require the\n  subsequent helix for efficient translocon recognition. We find no\n  evidence for specific interactions when we scan all residues in the\n  subsequent helices.  Instead, we identify arginines located at the\n  N-terminal part of the subsequent helices that are crucial for the\n  recognition of the marginally hydrophobic transmembrane helices,\n  indicating that the positive inside rule is important. However, in\n  two of the constructs these arginines do not aid in the recognition\n  without the rest of the subsequent helix, i.e.  the positive inside\n  rule alone is not sufficient.  Instead, the improved recognition of\n  marginally hydrophobic helices can here be explained as follows; the\n  positive inside rule provides an orientational preference of the\n  subsequent helix, which in turn allows the marginally hydrophobic\n  helix to be inserted, i.e.  the effect of the positive inside rule\n  is stronger if positively charged residues are followed by a\n  transmembrane helix. Such a mechanism can obviously not aid\n  C-terminal helices and consequently we find that the terminal\n  helices in multi-spanning membrane proteins are more hydrophobic\n  than internal helices.', u'As recently demonstrated in several genetic association studies, historically small\nand isolated populations can offer increased statistical power due to extended link-\nage equilibrium and increased genetic drift over many generations. However, many\nsuch populations, like the Greenlandic Inuit population, have recently experienced\nsubstantial admixture with other populations, which can complicate the association\nstudies. One important complication is that most current methods for performing\nassociation testing are based on the assumption that the effect of the tested ge-\nnetic marker is the same regardless of ancestry. This is a reasonable assumption\nfor a causal variant, but may not hold for the genetic markers that are tested in\nassociation studies, which are usually not causal. The effects of non-causal genetic\nmarkers depend on how strongly their presence correlate with the presence of the\ncausal marker, and this may vary between ancestral populations because of different\nlinkage disequilibrium patterns and allele frequencies.\nMotivated by this, we here introduce a new statistical method for association\ntesting in recently admixed populations, where the effect sizes are allowed to depend\non the ancestry of the allele.Our method does not rely on accurate inference of local\nancestry, yet using simulations we show that in some scenarios it gives a dramatic\nincrease in statistical power to detect associations. In addition, the method allows\nfor testing for difference in effect size between ancestral populations, which can be\nused to determine if a SNP is causal. We demonstrate the usefulness of the method\non data from the Greenlandic population.', u'Starting with Savageau\'s pioneering work from 1970s, here, we choose the simplest transcription network and ask: How does the cell choose a regulatory topology from the different available possibilities? We study the natural distribution of topologies at genome, systems, and micro-level in E. coli and perform stochastic simulations to help explain the differences in natural distributions. Analyzing regulation of amino acid biosynthesis and carbon utilization in E. coli and B. subtilis, we observe many deviations from the demand rules, and observe an alternate pattern emerging. Overall, our results indicate that choice of topology is drawn randomly from a pool of all networks which satisfy the kinetic requirements of the cell, as dictated by physiology. In short, simply, the cell picks "whatever works".', u'Strangles, the most frequently diagnosed infectious disease of horses worldwide, is caused by Streptococcus equi. Despite its prevalence, the global diversity and mechanisms underlying the evolution of S. equi as a host-restricted pathogen remain poorly understood. Here we define the global population structure of this important pathogen and reveal a population replacement in the late 19th or early 20th century, contemporaneous with a spate of global conflicts. Our data reveal a dynamic genome that continues to mutate and decay, but also to amplify and acquire genes despite the organism having lost its natural competence and become host-restricted.\n\nThe lifestyle of S. equi within the horse is defined by short-term acute disease, strangles, followed by long-term carriage. Population analysis reveals evidence of convergent evolution in isolates from post-acute disease samples, as a result of niche adaptation to persistent carriage within a host. Mutations that lead to metabolic streamlining and the loss of virulence determinants are more frequently found in carriage isolates, suggesting that the pathogenic potential of S. equi reduces as a consequence of long term residency within the horse post acute disease. An example of this is the deletion of the equibactin siderophore locus that is associated with iron acquisition, which occurs exclusively in carrier isolates, and renders S. equi significantly less able to cause acute disease in the natural host. We identify several loci that may similarly be required for the full virulence of S. equi, directing future research towards the development of new vaccines against this host-restricted pathogen.', u'Databases of structural connections of the mammalian brain, such as CoCoMac (cocomac.g- node.org) or BAMS (brancusi.usc.edu), are valuable resources for the analysis of brain connectivity and the modeling of brain dynamics in species such as the non-human primate or the rodent, and have also contributed to the computational modeling of the human brain. Another model species that is widely used in electrophysiological or developmental studies is the ferret; however, no systematic compilation of brain connectivity is currently available for this species. Thus, we have started developing a database of anatomical connections and architectonic features of the ferret brain (the Ferretome, www.ferretome.org). The main goals of this database project are: (1) to assemble structural information on the ferret brain that is currently widely distributed in the literature or in different in-house laboratory databases into a single resource which is open to the scientific community; (2) to try and build an extendable community resource that is beneficial to researchers in neuroinformatics and computational neuroscience, as well as to neuroanatomists, by adding value to their data through algorithms for efficient data representation, analysis and visualization; (3) to create techniques for the representation of quantitative and raw data; and (4) to expand existing database ontologies in order to accommodate further neuroarchitectural information for identifying essential relations between brain structure and connections.\nThe Ferretome database has adapted essential features of the CoCoMac methodology and legacy. In particular, its data model is derived from CoCoMac. It also uses a semantic parcellation of ferret brain regions as well as a logical brain maps transformation algorithm (objective relational transformation, ORT). The database is being developed in MySQL and has been populated with literature reports on tract tracing observations in the ferret brain using a custom-designed web interface that allows efficient and validated simultaneous input and proofreading by multiple curators. The database is also equipped with a web interface for generating output data that was designed with non-computer science specialist users in mind. This interface can be extended to produce connectivity matrices in several formats including a graphical representation superimposed on established ferret brain maps. An important feature of the Ferretome database is the possibility to trace back entries in connectivity matrices to the original studies archived in the system.\nCurrently, the Ferretome contains 50 reports on connections comprising 20 injection reports with more than 150 labeled source and target areas, the majority reflecting connectivity of subcortical nuclei. We hope that the Ferretome database will become a useful resource for neuroinformatics and neural modeling, and will support studies of the ferret brain as well as facilitate advances in comparative studies of mesoscopic brain connectivity.', u'The capacity of the human brain to interpret and respond to multiple temporal scales in its surroundings suggests that its internal interactions must also be able to operate over a  broad temporal range. In this paper, we utilise a recently introduced method for characterising the rate of change of the phase difference between MEG signals and use it to study the temporal structure of the phase interactions between MEG recordings from the left and right motor cortices during rest and during a finger-tapping task. We use the Hilbert transform to estimate moment-to-moment fluctuations of the phase difference between signals. After confirming the presence of scale-invariance we estimate the Hurst exponent using detrended fluctuation analysis (DFA).  An exponent of >0.5 is indicative of long-range temporal correlations (LRTCs) in the signal. We find that LRTCs are present in the \u03b1/\u03bc and \u03b2 frequency bands of resting state MEG data.  We demonstrate that finger movement disrupts LRTCs correlations, producing a phase relationship with a structure similar to that of Gaussian white noise. The results are validated by applying the same analysis to data with Gaussian white noise phase difference, recordings from an empty scanner and phase-shuffled time series.  \nWe interpret the findings through comparison of the results with those we obtained from an earlier study during which we adopted this method to characterise phase relationships within a Kuramoto model of oscillators in its sub-critical, critical and super-critical synchronisation states.  We find that the resting state MEG from left and right motor cortices shows moment-to-moment fluctuations of phase difference with a similar temporal structure to that of a system of Kuramoto oscillators just prior to its critical level of coupling, and that finger tapping moves the system away from this pre-critical state towards a more random state.', u'With the advent of RNA-sequencing technology we now have the power to detect different types of alternative splicing and how DNA variation affects splicing. However, given the short read lengths used in most population based RNA-sequencing experiments, quantifying transcripts accurately remains a challenge. Here we present a novel method, Altrans, for discovery of alternative splicing quantitative trait loci (asQTLs). To assess the performance of Altrans we compared it to Cufflinks, a well-established transcript quantification method. Simulations show that in the presence of transcripts absent from the annotation, Altrans performs better in quantifications than Cufflinks. We have applied Altrans and Cufflinks to the Geuvadis dataset, which comprises samples from European and African populations, and discovered (FDR = 1%) 1806 and 243 asQTLs with Altrans, and 1596 and 288 asQTLs with Cufflinks for Europeans and Africans, respectively. Although Cufflinks results replicated better across the two populations, this likely due to the increased sensitivity of Altrans in detecting harder to detect associations. We show that, by discovering a set of asQTLs in a smaller subset of European samples and replicating these in the remaining larger subset of Europeans, both methods achieve similar replication levels (94% and 98% replication in Altrans and Cufflinks, respectively). We find that method specific asQTLs are largely due to different types of alternative splicing events detected by each method. We overlapped the asQTLs with biochemically active regions of the genome and observed significant enrichments for many functional marks and variants in splicing regions, highlighting the biological relevance of the asQTLs identified. All together, we present a novel approach for discovering asQTLs that is a more direct assessment of splicing compared to other methods and  is complementary to other transcript quantification methods.', u'Recent efforts in predicting Wnt signaling activation via inference methods have helped in developing diagnostic models for therapeutic drug targeting. In this manuscript the reproducibility of parameter learning with missing observations in a Bayesian Network and its effect on prediction results for Wnt signaling activation is tested, while training the networks on doxycycline treated LS174T cell lines as well as normal and adenomas samples. This is done in order to check the effectiveness of using Bayesian Network as a tool for modeling Wnt pathway when certain observations are missing. Experimental analysis suggest that prediction results are reproducible with negligible deviations. Anomalies in estimated parameters are accounted for due to the Bayesian Network model. Also, an interesting case regarding usage of hypothesis testing came up while proving the statistical significance of different design setups of the BN model which was trained on the data. It was found that hypothesis testing may not be the correct way to check the significance between design setups for the aforementioned case, especially when the structure of the model is same. Finally, in comparison to the biologically inspired models, the naive bayesian model may give accurate results but this accuracy comes at the cost of loss of crucial biological knowledge which might help reveal hidden relations among intra/extracellular factors affecting the Wnt pathway.', u'We describe the discovery of a new genetic syndrome, RykDax syndrome, driven by a whole genome sequencing (WGS) study of one family from Utah with two affected male brothers, presenting with severe intellectual disability (ID), a characteristic intergluteal crease, and very distinctive facial features including a broad, upturned nose, sagging cheeks, downward sloping palpebral fissures, prominent periorbital ridges, deep-set eyes, relative hypertelorism, thin upper lip, a high-arched palate, prominent ears with thickened helices, and a pointed chin. This Caucasian family was recruited from Utah, USA. Illumina-based WGS was performed on 10 members of this family, with additional Complete Genomics-based WGS performed on the nuclear portion of the family (mother, father and the two affected males). Using WGS datasets from 10 members of this family, we can increase the reliability of the biological inferences with an integrative bioinformatic pipeline. In combination with insights from clinical evaluations and medical diagnostic analyses, these DNA sequencing data were used in the study of three plausible genetic disease models that might uncover genetic contribution to the syndrome. We found a 2 to 5-fold difference in the number of variants detected as being relevant for various disease models when using different sets of sequencing data and analysis pipelines. We derived greater accuracy when more pipelines were used in conjunction with data encompassing a larger portion of the family, with the number of putative de-novo mutations being reduced by 80%, due to false negative calls in the parents. The boys carry a maternally inherited missense variant in a X-chromosomal gene TAF1, which we consider as disease relevant. TAF1 is the largest subunit of the general transcription factor IID (TFIID) multi-protein complex, and our results implicate mutations in TAF1 as playing a critical role in the development of this new\nintellectual disability syndrome.', u'High-throughput sequencing technologies have enabled expansion of the scope of genetic screens to identify mutations that underlie quantitative phenotypes, such as fitness improvements that occur during the course of experimental evolution. This new capability has allowed us to describe the relationship between fitness and genotype at a level never possible before, and ask deeper questions, such as how genome structure, available mutation spectrum, and other factors drive evolution.  Here we combined functional genomics and experimental evolution to first map on a genome scale the distribution of potential beneficial mutations available as a first step to an evolving population and then compare these to the mutations actually observed in order to define the constraints acting upon evolution. We first constructed a single-step fitness landscape for the yeast genome by using barcoded gene deletion and overexpression collections, competitive growth in continuous culture, and barcode sequencing. By quantifying the relative fitness effects of thousands of single-gene amplifications or deletions simultaneously we revealed the presence of hundreds of accessible evolutionary paths. To determine the actual mutation spectrum used in evolution, we built a catalog of >1000 mutations selected during experimental evolution. By combining both datasets, we were able to ask how and why evolution is constrained. We identified adaptive mutations in laboratory evolved populations, derived mutational signatures in a variety of conditions and ploidy states, and determined that half of the mutations accumulated positively affect cellular fitness. We also uncovered hundreds of potential beneficial mutations never observed in the mutational spectrum derived from the experimental evolution catalog and found that those adaptive mutations become accessible in the absence of the dominant adaptive solution. This comprehensive functional screen explored the set of potential adaptive mutations on one genetic background, and allows us for the first time at this scale to compare the mutational path with the actual, spontaneously derived spectrum of mutations.', u'Whole-genome sequencing has become an indispensible tool of modern biology. However, the cost of sample preparation relative to the cost of sequencing remains high, especially for small genomes where the former is dominant. Here we present a protocol for the rapid and inexpensive preparation of hundreds of multiplexed genomic libraries for Illumina sequencing. By carrying out the Nextera tagmentation reaction in small volumes, replacing costly reagents with cheaper equivalents, and omitting unnecessary steps, we achieve a cost of library preparation of $8 per sample, approximately 6 times cheaper than the widely-used Nextera XT protocol. Furthermore, our procedure takes less than 5 hours for 96 samples and uses nanograms of genomic DNA. Many hundreds of samples can then be pooled on the same HiSeq lane via custom barcodes. Our method is especially useful for re-sequencing of large numbers of full microbial or viral genomes, including those from evolution experiments, genetic screens, and environmental samples.', u"Whole genome duplication events have occurred repeatedly during flowering plant evolution, and there is growing evidence for predictable patterns of gene retention and loss following polyploidization. Despite these important insights, the rate and processes governing the earliest stages of diploidization remain poorly understood, and the relative importance of genetic drift, positive selection and relaxed purifying selection in the process of gene degeneration and loss is unclear. Here, we conduct whole genome resequencing in Capsella bursa-pastoris, a recently formed tetraploid with one of the most widespread species distributions of any angiosperm. Whole genome data provide strong support for recent hybrid origins of the tetraploid species within the last 100-300,000 years from two diploid progenitors in the Capsella genus. Major-effect inactivating mutations are frequent, but many were inherited from the parental species and show no evidence of being fixed by positive selection. Despite a lack of large-scale gene loss, we observe a decrease in the efficacy of natural selection genome-wide, due to the combined effects of demography, selfing and genome redundancy from whole genome duplication. Our results suggest that the earliest stages of diploidization are associated with quantitative genome-wide decreases in the strength and efficacy of selection rather than rapid gene loss, and that non-functionalization can receive a 'head start' through a legacy of deleterious variants and differential expression originating in parental diploid populations.", u'The marker-assisted selection exploits anonymous genetic markers that have been associated with measurable differences on complex traits; because it is based on the Linkage Disequilibrium  between the polymorphic markers and the polymorphisms which code for the trait, its success is limited to the population in which the association has been assessed. The identification of the gene with effect on the target and the detection of the functional mutations  will allow selection in independent populations, while encouraging studies on gene expression. The results of a genome-wide scan performed with  the Illumina Ovine SNP50K Beadchip, on 100 sheep, 50 of which positive at  paratuberculosis serological assessment, identified two candidate genes of immunity response, the PCP4 and the CD109, located in proximity of the markers with different allele frequency in positive and negative sheep. The coding region of the two genes was directly sequenced: three missense mutations were detected: two in the PCP4 gene and one in the second exon of the CD109 gene. The PCP4 mutations had a very low frequency (.12 and .07) so making hazardous to hypothesize their direct effect on immune response. On the contrary, the mutation detected in the CD109 gene showed a strong linkage disequilibrium with the anonymous marker. Direct sequencing of the DNA of sheep of different populations showed that disequilibrium was maintained. Allele frequency at the hypothesized marker associated to immune response, calculated  for other breeds of sheep, showed that the marker allele potentially associated to disease resistance is more frequent in the local breeds and in breeds that have not been submitted to selection programs.', u'Transcriptome-enabled phylogenetic analyses have dramatically improved our understanding of metazoan phylogeny in recent years, although several important questions remain. The branching order near the base of the tree is one such outstanding issue. To address this question we assemble a novel data set comprised of 1,080 orthologous loci derived from 36 publicly available genomes and dissect the phylogenetic signal present in each individual partition. The size of this data set allows for a closer look at the potential biases and sources of non-phylogenetic signal. We assessed a range of measures for each data partition including information content, saturation, rate of evolution, long-branch score, and taxon occupancy and explored how each of these characteristics impacts phylogeny estimation. We then used these data to prepare a reduced set of partitions that fit an optimal set of criteria and are amenable to the most appropriate and computationally intensive analyses using site-heterogeneous models of sequence evolution. We also employed several strategies to examine the potential for long-branch attraction to bias our inferences. All of our analyses support Ctenophora as the sister lineage to other Metazoa, although support for this relationship varies among analyses. We find no support for the traditional view uniting the ctenophores and Cnidaria (jellies, anemones, corals, and kin). We also examine phylogenetic placement of myriapods (centipedes and millipedes) and find it more sensitive to the type of analysis and data used. Our study provides a workflow for minimizing systematic bias in whole genome-based phylogenetic analyses.', u'Many phytophagous insect species are ecologic specialists that have adapted to utilize a single host plant. Drosophila sechellia is a specialist that utilizes the ripe fruit of Morinda citrifolia, which is toxic to its sibling species, D. simulans. Here we apply multiplexed shotgun genotyping and QTL analysis to examine the genetic basis of resistance to M. citrifolia fruit toxin in interspecific hybrids. We find that at least four dominant and four recessive loci interact additively to confer resistance to the M. citrifolia fruit toxin. These QTL include a dominant locus of large effect on the third chromosome (QTL-IIIsima) that was not detected in previous analyses. The small-effect loci that we identify overlap with regions that were identified in selection experiments with D. simulans on octanoic acid and in QTL analyses of adult resistance to octanoic acid. Our high-resolution analysis sheds new light upon the complexity of M. citrifolia resistance, and suggests that partial resistance to lower levels of M. citrifolia toxin could be passed through introgression from D. sechellia to D. simulans in nature. The identification of a locus of major effect, QTL-IIIsima, is an important step towards identifying the molecular basis of host plant specialization by D. sechellia.', u'Reasons why chromosomal rearrangements spread to fixation and frequently distinguish related taxa remain poorly understood. We used cytological descriptions of karyotype to identify large pericentric inversions between species of Estrildid finches (family Estrildidae) and a time-dated phylogeny to assess the genomic, geographic, and phylogenetic context of karyotype evolution in this group. Inversions between finch species fixed at an average rate of one every 2.26 My. Inversions were twice as likely to fix on the sex chromosomes compared to the autosomes, possibly a result of their repeat density, and inversion fixation rate for all chromosomes scales with range size. Alternative mutagenic input explanations are not supported, as the number of inversions on a chromosome does not correlate with its length or map size. Inversions have fixed 3.3\xd7 faster in three continental clades than in two island chain clades, and fixation rate correlates with both range size and the number of sympatric species pairs. These results point to adaptation as the dominant mechanism driving fixation and suggest a role for gene flow in karyotype divergence. A review shows that the rapid karyotype evolution observed in the Estrildid finches appears to be more general across birds, and by implication other understudied taxa.', u'Transcriptome analysis by RNA-seq has emerged as a high-throughput, cost-effective means to evaluate the expression pattern of genes in organisms. Unlike other methods, such as microarrays or quantitative PCR, RNA-seq is a target free method that permits analysis of essentially any RNA that can be amplified from a cell or tissue.  At its most basic, RNA-seq can determine individual gene expression levels by counting the number of times a particular transcript was found in the sequence data. Transcript levels can be compared across multiple samples to identify differentially expressed genes and infer differences in biological states between the samples.  We have used this approach to examine gene expression patterns in chicken and human cells, with particular interest in determining response to heat stress.', u'The advent of induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) revolutionized Human Genetics by allowing us to generate pluripotent cells from easily accessible somatic tissues. This technology can have immense implications for regenerative medicine, but iPSCs also represent a paradigm shift in the study of complex human phenotypes, including gene regulation and disease. Yet, an unresolved caveat of the iPSC model system is the extent to which reprogrammed iPSCs retain residual phenotypes from their precursor somatic cells. To directly address this issue, we used an effective study design to compare regulatory phenotypes between iPSCs derived from two types of commonly used somatic precursor cells. We show that the cell type of origin only minimally affects gene expression levels and DNA methylation in iPSCs. Instead, genetic variation is the main driver of regulatory differences between iPSCs of different donors.', u'Cytoplasmic degradation of endogenous RNAs is an integral part of RNA quality control (RQC)\nand often relies on the removal of the 5\u2019 cap structure and their subsequent 5\u2019 to 3\u2019 degradation in\ncytoplasmic processing (P-)bodies. In parallel, many eukaryotes degrade exogenous and selected\nendogenous RNAs through post-transcriptional gene silencing (PTGS). In plants, PTGS depends on\nsmall interfering (si)RNAs produced after the conversion of single-stranded RNAs to doublestranded\nRNAs by the cellular RNA DEPENDENT RNA POLYMERASE 6 (RDR6) in cytoplasmic\nsiRNA-bodies. PTGS and RQC compete for transgene-derived RNAs, but it is unknown whether\nthis competition also occurs for endogenous transcripts. We show that the lethality of decapping\nmutants is suppressed by impairing RDR6 activity. We establish that upon decapping impairment\nhundreds of endogenous mRNAs give rise to a new class of rqc-siRNAs, that over-accumulate\nwhen RQC processes are impaired, a subset of which depending on RDR6 for their production. We\nobserve that P- and siRNA-bodies often are dynamically juxtaposed, potentially allowing for crosstalk\nof the two machineries. Our results suggest that the decapping of endogenous RNA limits their\nentry into the PTGS pathway. We anticipate that the rqc-siRNAs identified in decapping mutants\nrepresent a subset of a larger ensemble of endogenous siRNAs.', u'Background\nThe tetrapod limb is a highly diverse structure, and reduction of the limbs accounts for much of the phenotypes observed within species. Squamate reptiles represent one of the many lineages in which the limbs have been greatly modified from the pentadactyl generalized pattern; within the group, limb-reduced morphologies can vary from minor reductions in size of elements to complete limblessness, with several intermediate forms in between. Even though limb reduction is widespread, it is not clear what are the evolutionary and developmental mechanisms involved in the formation of reduced limb morphologies. \nMethods\nIn this study, we present an overview of limb morphology within the microteiid lizard group Gymnophthalmidae, focusing on digit number.\nResults\nWe show that there are two major groups of limb-reduced gymnophthalmids. The first group is formed by lizard-like - and frequently pentadactyl - species, in which minor reductions (such as the loss of 1-2 phalanges mainly in digits I and V) are the rule; these morphologies generally correspond to those seen in other squamates. The second group is formed by species showing more drastic losses, which can include the absence of an externally distinct limb in adults. We also show the expression patterns of Sonic Hedgehog (Shh) in the greatly reduced fore and hindlimb of a serpentiform gymnophthalmid.\nConclusions\nOur discussion focus on identifying shared patterns of limb reduction among tetrapods, and explaining these patterns and the morphological variation within the gymnophthalmids based on the current knowledge of the molecular signaling pathways that coordinate limb development.', u'It has been postulated that natural populations of Drosophila melanogaster are comprised of two behavioral morphs termed "rover" and "sitter", and that this variation is caused mainly by large-effect alleles at a single locus. Contrary to common assertions, however, published support for the existence of common large effect alleles in nature is quite limited. To further investigate, we quantified the foraging behavior of 36 sequenced strains from a natural population, performed an association study, and described patterns of molecular evolution at the foraging locus. Though there was significant variation in foraging behavior among genotypes, this variation was continuously distributed and not significantly associated with genetic variation at the foraging gene. Patterns of molecular population genetic variation at this gene also provide no support for the hypothesis that for is a target of recent balancing selection. Though our data only apply to this specific population, we propose that additional data is required to support a hypothesis of common alleles of large effect on foraging behavior in nature.', u'Many multicellular organisms produce two cell lineages: germ cells, whose descendants form the next generation, and somatic cells which support, protect, and disperse the germ cells. This distinction has evolved independently in dozens of multicellular taxa but is absent in unicellular species. We propose that unicellular, soma-producing populations are intrinsically susceptible to invasion by non-differentiating mutants which ultimately eradicate the differentiating lineage. We argue that multicellularity can prevent the victory of such mutants. To test this hypothesis, we engineer strains of the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae that differ only in the presence or absence of multicellularity and somatic differentiation, permitting direct comparisons between organisms with different lifestyles. We find that non-differentiating mutants overtake unicellular populations but are outcompeted by multicellular differentiating strains, suggesting that multicellularity confers evolutionary stability to somatic differentiation.', u'Summary: As new methods for multivariate analysis of Genome Wide Association Studies (GWAS) become available, it is important to be able to combine results from different cohorts in a meta-analysis. The R package MultiMeta provides an implementation of the inverse-variance based method for meta-analysis, generalized to an n-dimensional setting. \nAvailability: The R package MultiMeta can be downloaded from CRAN \nContact: dragana.vuckovic@burlo.trieste.it', u'Rais et al. (Nature 502: 65-70) reported that suppressing formation of the Nucleosome Remodelling and Deacetylase (NuRD) complex by depleting its structural component Mbd3 promotes near 100% induction of somatic cells reprogrammed to pluripotency. These results have not been independently reproduced and conflicting data were obtained in a recent study by our groups (Cell Stem Cell 15: 102-10). Here we investigate the source of these disparities through analysis of the genomic data accompanying Rais et al. In contrast to the conditions described in the study, Mbd3 remained expressed at high levels in both heterozygous and incompletely ablated knockout cell lines used to assess pluripotency induction in an Mbd3-depleted state, calling into question the involvement of Mbd3 in the reported improvements to reprogramming efficiency. Mismatched reporter constructs were found to be applied to Oct4-GFP experiment and control cells, where the primary enhancer element regulating Oct4 expression is present only in the test group where apparent enhancements in reprogramming kinetics were observed. This setup led to inappropriate comparison of test cells harboring a promiscuous Oct4-GFP reporter and control cells transformed with a much more stringent version. Such conditions are expected to incur substantial differences in GFP output and misleading interpretation of fluorescence data. We relay our findings to inform the community of these issues and to express our concerns regarding the conclusions presented in Rais et al.', u"A-to-I editing substitutes inosines for adenosines at specific positions in mRNAs and can substantially alter a cell's transcriptome. Currently, little is known about how RNA editing operates in cancer. Transcriptome analysis of 68 normal and cancerous breast tissues revealed that the editing enzyme ADAR acts uniformly, on the same loci, across tissues. Controlled ADAR expression experiments demonstrated that the editing frequency at all loci is proportional to both ADAR expression levels and the individual locus' editability?a propensity to be edited determined by the surrounding nucleotide sequence. Comparison of tumor transcriptomes to those of normal breast and breast organoids, i.e. pure normal breast epithelial cells, demonstrated that the editing frequency is increased in tumor cells. This was consistent with ADAR immunohistochemistry. We also demonstrated that type I interferon response and ADAR DNA copy number explain together 53% of ADAR expression in breast cancers, an observation also valid in nearly all of 20 other cancer types in The Cancer Genome Atlas. Interferon exposure increased ADAR mRNA, protein expression and editing in four breast cell lines. Finally, ADAR silencing using shRNA lentivirus transduction in breast cancer cell lines led to more cell proliferation and less apoptosis. Our results reveal that A-to-I editing is a pervasive, yet reproducible, source of variation that is controlled by two factors, 1q amplification and inflammation, both highly prevalent among human cancers. This suggests the potential for a new class of therapeutic targets and an unexpected role for inflammation in cancers.", u'It is believed that metastasis through the cardiovascular system is primarily caused by circulating tumor cells (CTCs). We report an approach to eliminate circulating tumor cells from the blood stream by flowing the blood though an extracorporeal tube and applying photodynamic therapy (PDT). Chlorin e6 (Ce6), a photosensizer, was conjugated to antibody CD44 in order to target PC-3, a prostate cancer cell line. PC-3 cells were successfully stained by the Ce6-CD44 antibody conjugate. PDT was performed on whole blood spiked with stained PC-3 cells. As the blood circulated through a transparent medical tube, it was exposed to light of a specific wavelength generated by an LED array. A 2 minute exposure was sufficient to achieve selective cancer cell necrosis. Control studies showed no cell death.', u'Phylogenetic estimates from published studies can be archived using general platforms like Dryad or TreeBASE. Such services fulfill a crucial role in ensuring transparency and reproducibility in phylogenetic research. However, digital tree data files often require some editing (e.g. rerooting) to improve the accuracy and reusability of the phylogenetic statements. Furthermore, establishing the mapping between tip labels used in a tree and taxa in a single common taxonomy dramatically improves the ability of other researchers to reuse phylogenetic estimates. Because the process of curating a published phylogenetic estimate is not error-free, retaining a full record of the provenance of edits to a tree is crucial for openness, allowing editors to receive credit for their work, and making errors introduced during curation easier to correct. Here we report the development of software infrastructure to support the open curation of phylogenetic data by the community of biologists. The backend of the system provides an interface for the standard database operations of creating, reading, updating, and deleting records by making commits to a git repository. The record of the history of edits to a tree is preserved by git\'s version control features. Hosting this data store on GitHub provides open access to the data store using tools familiar to many developers. We have deployed a server running the "phylesystem-api", which wraps the interactions with git and GitHub. The Open Tree of Life project has also developed and deployed a JavaScript application that uses the phylesystem-api and other web services to enable input and curation of published phylogenetic statements.', u'IAA plays a critical role in regulating numerous aspects of plant growth and development. While there is much genetic support for tryptophan-dependent (Trp-D) IAA synthesis pathways, there is little genetic evidence for tryptophan-independent (Trp-I) IAA synthesis pathways. Using Arabidopsis, we identified two mutant alleles of ISS1 (Indole Severe Sensitive) that display indole-dependent IAA overproduction phenotypes including leaf epinasty and adventitious rooting. Stable isotope labeling showed that iss1, but not WT, uses primarily Trp-I IAA synthesis when grown on indole-supplemented medium. In contrast, both iss1 and WT use primarily Trp-D IAA synthesis when grown on unsupplemented medium. iss1 seedlings produce 8-fold higher levels of IAA when grown on indole and surprisingly have a 174-fold increase in Trp. These findings indicate that the iss1 mutant???s increase in Trp-I IAA synthesis is due to a loss of Trp catabolism. ISS1 was identified as At1g80360, a predicted aromatic aminotransferase, and in vitro and in vivo analysis confirmed this activity. At1g80360 was previously shown to primarily carry out the conversion of indole-3-pyruvic acid to Trp as an IAA homeostatic mechanism in young seedlings. Our results suggest that in addition to this activity, in more mature plants ISS1 has a role in Trp catabolism and possibly in the metabolism of other aromatic amino acids. We postulate that this loss of Trp catabolism impacts the use of Trp-D and/or Trp-I IAA synthesis pathways.', u'Background: Clone libraries provide researchers with a powerful resource with which to study nucleic acid from diverse sources. Metagenomic clone libraries in particular have aided in studies of microbial biodiversity and function, as well as allowed the mining of novel enzymes for specific functions of interest. These libraries are often constructed by cloning large-inserts (~30 kb) into a cosmid or fosmid vector. Recently, there have been reports of GC bias in fosmid metagenomic clone libraries, and it was speculated that the bias may be a result of fragmentation and loss of AT-rich sequences during the cloning process. However, evidence in the literature suggests that transcriptional activity or gene product toxicity may play a role in library bias. \n\nResults: To explore the possible mechanisms responsible for sequence bias in clone libraries, and in particular whether fragmentation is involved, we constructed a cosmid clone library from a human microbiome sample, and sequenced DNA from three different steps of the library construction process: crude extract DNA, size-selected DNA, and cosmid library DNA. We confirmed a GC bias in the final constructed cosmid library, and we provide strong evidence that the sequence bias is not due to fragmentation and loss of AT-rich sequences but is likely occurring after the DNA is introduced into E. coli. To investigate the influence of strong constitutive transcription, we searched the sequence data for consensus promoters and found that rpoD/sigma-70 promoter sequences were underrepresented in the cosmid library. Furthermore, when we examined the reference genomes of taxa that were differentially abundant in the cosmid library relative to the original sample, we found that the bias appears to be more closely correlated with the number of rpoD/sigma-70 consensus sequences in the genome than with simple GC content.\n\nConclusions: The GC bias of metagenomic clone libraries does not appear to be due to DNA fragmentation. Rather, analysis of promoter consensus sequences provides support for the hypothesis that strong constitutive transcription from sequences recognized as rpoD/sigma-70 consensus-like in E. coli may lead to plasmid instability or loss of insert DNA. Our results suggest that despite widespread use of E. coli to propagate foreign DNA, the effects of in vivo transcriptional activity may be under-appreciated. Further work is required to tease apart the effects of transcription from those of gene product toxicity.', u'RNA-seq is a powerful tool for gene expression profiling and differential expression analysis. Its power depends on sequencing depth which limits its high-throughput potential, with 10-15 million reads considered as optimal balance between quality of differential expression calling and cost per sample. We observed, however, that some statistical features of the data, e.g. gene count distribution, are preserved well below 10-15M reads, and found that they improve differential expression analysis at low sequencing depths when distribution statistics is estimated by pooling individual samples to a combined higher-depth library. Using a novel gene-by-gene scaling technique, based on the fact that gene counts obey Pareto-like distribution, we re-normalize samples towards bigger sequencing depth and show that this leads to significant improvement in differential expression calling, with only a marginal increase in false positive calls. This makes differential expression calling from 3-4M reads comparable to 10-15M reads, improving high-throughput of RNA-sequencing 3-4 fold.', u'High-throughput experiments such as microarrays and deep sequencing provide large scale information on the pattern of gene expression, which undergoes extensive remodeling as the cell dynamically responds to varying environmental cues or has its function disrupted under pathological conditions. An important initial step in the systematic analysis and interpretation of genome-scale expression alteration involves identification of a set of perturbed transcriptional regulators whose differential activity can provide a proximate hypothesis to account for these transcriptomic changes. In the present work, we propose an unbiased and logically natural approach to transcription factor enrichment. It involves overlaying a list of experimentally determined differentially expressed genes on a background regulatory network coming from e.g. literature curation or computational motif scanning, and identifying that subset of regulators whose aggregated target set best discriminates between the altered and the unaffected genes. In other words, our methodology entails testing of all possible regulatory subnetworks, rather than just the target sets of individual regulators as is followed in most standard approaches. We have proposed an iterative search method to efficiently find such a combination, and benchmarked it on E. coli microarray and regulatory network data available in the public domain. Comparative analysis carried out on simulated differential expression profiles, as well as empirical factor overexpression data for M. tuberculosis, shows that our methodology provides marked improvement in accuracy of regulatory inference relative to the standard method that involves evaluating factor enrichment in an individual manner.', u'The generalization of the second Chargaff rule to values of k larger than 1, states that the frequency of any k-mer on a single strand almost equals that of its inverse (reverse-complement). We demonstrate the validity of the generalized rule up to k=10 for all human chromosomes. Moreover, this Inversion Symmetry holds for many species, both eukaryotes and prokaryotes, for ranges of k which may vary from 7 to 10 as chromosomal lengths vary from 2Mbp up to 200 Mbp. We demonstrate that the statistical distributions of inverted pairs of k-mers are very different from other natural pairings of k-mers, implying that inversion symmetry is a basic principle of chromosomal structure. We suggest that it came into being because genomic evolution employed many rearrangements which consisted of inversions of chromosomal sections; on length scales down to order 1-10Kbp. Model simulations substantiate this claim. Low-scale inversions during chromosomal evolution imply that IS may exist for short sections of human chromosomes. This is indeed the case: we find that chromosome sections of length 5Kbp satisfy IS for k=1 and k=2. The largest value of k for which IS holds, which we call the k-limit of IS, increases logarithmically as the section length increases. The logarithmic dependence of the k-limit on the length of the chromosome is a universal characteristic, observed throughout the tree of life.', u'The deluge of next-generation sequencing (NGS) data and expanding database poses higher requirements for protein similarity search. State-of-the-art tools such as BLAST are not fast enough to cope with these requirements. Because of that it is necessary to create new algorithms that will be faster while keeping similar sensitivity levels. The majority of protein similarity search methods are based on a seed-and-extend approach which uses standard dynamic programming algorithms in the extend phase. In this paper we present a SW#db tool and library for exact similarity search. Although its running times, as standalone tool, are comparable to running times of BLAST it is primarily designed for the extend phase where there are reduced number of candidates in the database. It uses both GPU and CPU parallelization and when we measured multiple queries on Swiss-prot and Uniref90 databases SW#db was 4 time faster than SSEARCH, 6-10 times faster than CUDASW++ and more than 20 times faster than SSW.', u'We present three linkage-disequilibrium (LD)-based recombination maps generated using whole-genome sequencing data of 10 Nigerian chimpanzees, 13 bonobos, and 15 western gorillas, collected as part of the Great Ape Genome Project (Prado-Martinez et al. 2013). Using species-specific PRDM9 sequences to predict potential binding sites, we identified an important role for PRDM9 in predicting recombination rate variation broadly across great apes. Our results are contrary to previous research that PRDM9 is not associated with recombination in western chimpanzees (Auton et al. 2012). Additionally, we show that fewer hotspots are shared among chimpanzee subspecies than within human populations, further narrowing the time-scale of complete hotspot turnover. We quantified the variation in the biased distribution of recombination rates towards recombination hotspots across great apes. We found that correlations between broad-scale recombination rates decline more rapidly than nucleotide divergence between species. We also compared the skew of recombination rates at centromeres and telomeres between species and show a skew from chromosome means extending as far as 10\u201015 Mb from chromosome ends. Further, we examined broad-scale recombination rate changes near a translocation in gorillas and found minimal differences as compared to other great ape species perhaps because the coordinates relative to the chromosome ends were unaffected. Finally, based on multiple linear regression analysis, we found that various correlates of recombination rate persist throughout primates including repeats, diversity, divergence and local effective population size (Ne). Our study is the first to analyze within- and between-species genome-wide recombination rate variation in several close relatives.', u'The P-element is one of the best understood eukaryotic transposable elements. It invaded Drosophila melanogaster populations within a few decades, but was thought to be absent from close relatives, including D. simulans. Five decades after the spread in D. melanogaster, we provide evidence that the P-element has also invaded D. simulans. P-elements in D. simulans appear to have been acquired recently from D. melanogaster probably via a single horizontal transfer event. Expression data indicate that the P-element is processed in the germline of D. simulans, and genomic data show an enrichment of P-element insertions in putative origins of replication, similar to that seen in D. melanogaster. This ongoing spread of the P-element in natural populations provides an unique opportunity to understand the dynamics of transposable element spreads and the associated piRNA defense mechanisms.', u'Zinc-finger nucleases (ZFNs) and transcription activator-like effector nucleases (TALENs) are powerful tools for genome engineering. These synthetic nucleases are assembled with programmable, sequence-specific DNA-binding domain and a non-specific FokI cleavage domain. Apolipoprotein E (ApoE) gene polymorphism is associated with cardiovascular outcomes, including ischaemic stroke and coronary heart disease (CHD). So the objective of this study is to create mutations of AopE gene by ZFNs and TALENs technology. Here, we used the Context-dependent assembly (CoDA) method to design and screen ZFNs specifically targeting with ApoE gene. The targeted cleavage capacity of these ZFNs was validated in yeast system and HEK 293T cells. Meanwhile, an efficient assembled TALENs to target ApoE gene in HEK 293T cells was as a control. The results showed that both ZFNs and TALENs worked on ApoE gene with similar high-efficiency cleavage capability. The result would provide efficient methods for genome editing, so as to get disease model for gene therapy for the further study.', u"Aerobic exercise capacity can influence many complex traits including obesity and type 2 diabetes. We established two rat lines by divergent selection of intrinsic aerobic capacity. The high capacity runners (HCR) and low capacity runners (LCR) differed by ~9-fold in aerobic capacity after 32 generations, and diverged in body fat, blood glucose, and other health indicators. To study the interplay among genetic differentiation, age, and strenuous exercise, we performed microarray-based gene expression analyses in skeletal muscle with a 2\xd72\xd72 design to compare HCR and LCR, old and young animals, and between rest and exhaustion, for a total of eight groups (n=6 each). Transcripts for mitochondrial function are expressed higher in HCR than LCR at both rest and exhaustion, for both age groups. Extracellular matrix components decrease with age in both lines and both rest and exhaustion. Interestingly, age-effects in many pathways are more pronounced in LCR, suggesting that HCR's higher innate aerobic capacity underlies both increased lifespan and heathspan.", u"Translational neuroscience in the field of spinal cord injuries (SCI) faces a strong disproportion between immense preclinical research efforts and a lack of therapeutic approaches successful in human patients: Currently, preclinical research on SCI yields more than 3,000 new publications per year (8,000 when including the whole central nervous system, growing at an exponential rate), whereas none of the resulting therapeutic concepts has led to functional recovery of neural tissue in humans. Improving clinical researchers' information access therefore carries the potential to support more effective selection of promising therapy candidates from preclinical studies. Thus, automated in- formation extraction from scientific publications contributes to enabling meta studies and therapy grading by aggregating relevant information from the entire body of previous work on SCI.\nWe present SCIE, an automated information extraction pipeline capable of detecting relevant information in SCI publications based on ontological entity and probabilistic relation detection. The input are plain text or PDF documents. As output, the user choses between an online visualization or a machine-readable format. Compared to human gold standard annotations, our system achieves an average extraction performance of 76 % precision and 52 % recall (F1-measure 0.59).\nAn instance of the webservice is available at http://scie.sc.cit-ec.uni-bielefeld.de/. SCIE is free software licensed under the AGPL and can be downloaded for local installation at http: //opensource.cit-ec.de/projects/scie/.", u'Maize offers an ideal system through which to demonstrate the potential of ancient population genomic techniques for reconstructing the evolution and spread of domesticates. The diffusion of maize from Mexico into the North American Southwest (SW) remains contentious with the available evidence being restricted to morphological studies of ancient maize plant material. We captured 1 Mb of nuclear DNA from 32 archaeological maize samples spanning 6000 years and compared them with modern landraces including those from the Mexican West coast and highlands. We found that the initial diffusion of domesticated maize into the SW is likely to have occurred through a highland route. However, by 2000 years ago a Pacific coastal corridor was also being used. Furthermore, we could distinguish between genes that were selected for early during domestication (such as zagl1 involved in shattering) from genes that changed in the SW context (e.g. related to sugar content and adaptation to drought) likely as a response to the local arid environment and new cultural uses of maize.', u'A capacity to predict the spread rate of populations is critical for understanding the impacts of climate change and invasive species.  Despite sophisticated theory describing how populations spread, the prediction of spread rate remains a formidable challenge.  As well as the inherent stochasticity in the spread process, spreading populations are subject to strong evolutionary forces (operating on dispersal and reproductive rates) that can cause accelerating spread.  Despite these strong evolutionary forces, serial founder events and drift on the expanding range edge mean that evolutionary trajectories in the invasion vanguard may be highly stochastic.  Here I develop a model of spatial spread in continuous space that incorporates evolution of continuous traits under a quantitative genetic model of inheritance.  I use this model to investigate the potential role of evolution on the variation in spread rate between replicate model realisations.  Models incorporating evolution exhibited more than four times the variance in spread rate across replicate invasions compared with non-evolving scenarios.  Results suggest that the majority of this increase in variation is driven by evolutionary stochasticity on the invasion front rather than initial founder events: in many cases evolutionary stochasticity on the invasion front contributed more than 90% of the variance in spread rate over 30 generations.  Our uncertainty around predicted spread rates -- whether for invasive species or those shifting under climate change -- may be much larger than we expect when the spreading population contains heritable variation in rates of dispersal and reproduction.', u'Freeman-Sheldon syndrome, or distal arthrogryposis type 2A (DA2A), is an autosomal dominant condition caused by mutations in MYH3 and characterized by multiple congenital contractures of the face and limbs and normal cognitive development. We identified a subset of five simplex cases putatively diagnosed with \u201cDA2A with severe neurological abnormalities\u201d in which the proband had Congenital Contractures of the LImbs and FAce, Hypotonia, and global Developmental Delay often resulting in early death, a unique condition that we now refer to as CLIFAHDD syndrome. Exome sequencing identified missense mutations in sodium leak channel, nonselective (NALCN) in four families with CLIFAHDD syndrome. Using molecular inversion probes to screen NALCN in a cohort of 202 DA cases as well as concurrent exome sequencing of six other DA cases revealed NALCN mutations in ten additional families with \u201catypical\u201d forms of DA. All fourteen mutations were missense variants predicted to alter amino acid residues in or near the S5 and S6 pore-forming segments of NALCN, highlighting the functional importance of these segments. In vitro functional studies demonstrated that mutant NALCN nearly abolished the expression of wildtype NALCN, suggesting that mutations that cause CLIFAHDD syndrome have a dominant negative effect. In contrast, homozygosity for mutations in other regions of NALCN has been reported in three families with an autosomal recessive condition characterized mainly by hypotonia and severe intellectual disability. Accordingly, mutations in NALCN can cause either a recessive or dominant condition with varied though overlapping phenotypic features perhaps depending on the type of mutation and affected protein domain(s).', u'Cancers arise as a result of genetic and epigenetic alterations. These accumulate in cells during the processes of tissue development, homeostasis and repair. Many tumor types are hierarchically organized and driven by a sub-population of cells often called cancer stem cells. Cancer stem cells are uniquely capable of recapitulating the tumor and can be highly resistant to radio- and chemotherapy treatment. We investigate tumor growth patterns from a theoretical standpoint and show how significant changes in pre- and post-therapy tumor dynamics are tied to the dynamics of cancer stem cells. We identify two characteristic growth regimes of a tumor population that can be leveraged to estimate cancer stem cell fractions in vivo using simple linear regression. Our method is a mathematically exact result, parameter free and does not require any microscopic knowledge of the tumor properties. A more accurate quantification of the direct link between the sub-population driving tumor growth and treatment response promises new ways to individualize treatment strategies.', u'The human T cell repertoire is complex and is generated by the rearrangement of variable (V), diversity (D) and joining (J) segments on the T cell receptor (TCR) loci. The T cell repertoire demonstrates self-similarity in terms clonal frequencies when defined by V, D and J gene segment usage; therefore to determine whether the structural ordering of these gene segments on the TCR loci contributes to the observed clonal frequencies, the TCR loci were examined for self-similarity and periodicity in terms of gene segment organization. Logarithmic transformation of numeric sequence order demonstrated that the V and J gene segments for both T cell receptor \u03b1 (TRA) and \u03b2 (TRB) loci were arranged in a self-similar manner when the spacing between the adjacent segments was considered as a function of the size of the neighboring gene segment, with an average fractal dimension of ~1.5. The ratio of genomic distance between either the J (in TRA) or D (in TRB) segments and successive V segments on these loci declined logarithmically with a slope of similar magnitude. Accounting for the gene segments occurring on helical DNA molecules in a logarithmic distribution, sine and cosine functions of the log transformed angular coordinates of the start and stop nucleotides of successive TCR gene segments showed an ordered progression from the 5\u2019 to the 3\u2019 end of the locus, supporting a log-periodic organization. T cell clonal frequencies, based on V and J segment usage, from three normal stem cell donors were plotted against the V and J segment on TRB locus and demonstrated a periodic distribution. We hypothesize that this quasi-periodic variation in gene-segment representation in the T cell clonal repertoire may be influenced by the location of the gene segments on the periodic-logarithmically scaled TCR loci. Interactions between the two strands of DNA in the double helix may influence the probability of gene segment usage by means of either constructive or destructive interference resulting from the superposition of the two helices.', u'Putative G-quadruplex-forming sequences (PQS) have long been implicated in regulation of DNA replication and transcription, though their actual roles are unknown.  To gain insight into potential PQS transcriptional function, we map and analyze PQS motifs in promoters of genes differentially-expressed in Bloom Syndrome (BS) and Werner Syndrome (WS), two human genetic disorders resulting in loss of PQS-interacting RecQ helicases.  Non-B-DNA structures at PQS might be stabilized in these syndromes. For BS and WS we demonstrate that PQS promoter abundance is generally higher in down-regulated genes and lower in up-regulated genes, and show that these effects are position-dependent.  To interpret these correlations we determined genome-wide PQS correlations with transcription using epigenetic information to predict gene expression.  We report that 33% and 35% of analyzed PQS positions in promoter antisense and sense strands, respectively, displayed statistically-significant correlation with gene expression.  Of these statistically-significant positions, 100% and 84% on antisense and sense strands, respectively, were correlated with reduced expression. This suggests that promoter PQS repress transcription.  Finally, we report neural network clustering analysis of PQS motifs to demonstrate that genes differentially-expressed in BS and WS are significantly biased in their PQS motifs, suggesting an unappreciated biological relationship between PQS, RecQ helicases, and transcription.', u'Semantic Web technologies have been widely applied in Life Sciences, for example by data providers like OpenLifeData and Web Services frameworks like SADI. The recent OpenLifeData2SADI project offers access to the OpenLifeData data store through SADI services. This paper shows how to merge data from OpenLifeData with other extant SADI services in the Galaxy bioinformatics analysis platform, making semantic data amenable to complex analyses, as a worked example demonstrates. The whole setting is reproducible through a Docker image that includes a pre-configured Galaxy server with data and workflows that constitute the worked example', u'Renewable in vitro cell cultures, such as lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs), have facilitated studies that contributed to our understanding of genetic influence on human traits. However, the degree to which cell lines faithfully maintain differences in donor-specific phenotypes is still debated. We have previously reported that standard cell line maintenance practice results in a loss of donor-specific gene expression signatures in LCLs. An alternative to the LCL model is the induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) system, which carries the potential to model tissue-specific physiology through the use of differentiation protocols. Still, existing LCL banks represent an important source of starting material for iPSC generation, and it is possible that the disruptions in gene regulation associated with long-term LCL maintenance could persist through the reprogramming process. To address this concern, we studied the effect of reprogramming mature LCLs to iPSCs on the ensuing gene expression patterns within and between six unrelated donor individuals. We show that the reprogramming process results in a recovery of donor-specific gene regulatory signatures. Since environmental contributions are unlikely to be a source of individual variation in our system of highly passaged cultured cell lines, our observations suggest that the effect of genotype on gene regulation is more pronounced in the iPSCs than in the LCL precursors. Our findings indicate that iPSCs can be a powerful model system for studies of phenotypic variation across individuals in general, and the genetic association with variation in gene regulation in particular. We further conclude that LCLs are an appropriate starting material for iPSC generation.', u'Distantly related clades that occupy similar environments may differ due to the lasting imprint of their ancestors \u2013 historical contingency. The New World warblers (Parulidae) and Old World warblers (Phylloscopidae) are ecologically similar clades that differ strikingly in plumage coloration. We studied genetic and functional evolution of the short-wavelength sensitive visual pigments (SWS2 and SWS1) to ask if altered color perception could contribute to the plumage color differences between clades. We show SWS2 is short-wavelength shifted in birds that occupy open environments, such as finches, compared to those in closed environments, including warblers. Sequencing of opsin genes and phylogenetic reconstructions indicate New World warblers were derived from a finch-like form that colonized from the Old World 15-20Ma. During this process the SWS2 gene accumulated 6 substitutions in branches leading to New World warblers, inviting the hypothesis that passage through a finch-like ancestor resulted in SWS2 evolution. In fact, we show spectral tuning remained similar across warblers as well as the finch ancestor. Results reject the hypothesis of historical contingency based on opsin spectral tuning, but point to evolution of other aspects of visual pigment function. Using the approach outlined here, historical contingency becomes a generally testable theory in systems where genotype and phenotype can be connected.', u'Background: Blueberries are a rich source of antioxidants and other beneficial compounds that can protect against disease. Identifying genes involved in synthesis of bioactive compounds could enable breeding berry varieties with enhanced health benefits. Results: Toward this end, we annotated a draft blueberry genome assembly using RNA-Seq data from five stages of berry fruit development and ripening. Genome-guided assembly of RNA-Seq read alignments combined with output from ab initio gene finders produced around 60,000 gene models, of which more than half were similar to proteins from other species, typically the grape Vitis vinifera. Comparison of gene models to the PlantCyc database of metabolic pathway enzymes identified candidate genes involved in synthesis of bioactive compounds, including bixin, an apocarotenoid with potential disease-fighting properties, and defense-related cyanogenic glycosides, which are toxic. Cyanogenic glycoside (CG) biosynthetic enzymes were highly expressed in green fruit, and a candidate CG detoxification enzyme was up regulated during fruit ripening. Candidate genes for ethylene, anthocyanin, and 400 other biosynthetic pathways were also identified. Homology-based annotation using Blast2GO and InterPro assigned Gene Ontology terms to around 15,000 genes. RNA-Seq expression profiling showed that blueberry growth, maturation, and ripening involve dynamic gene expression changes, including coordinated up and down regulation of metabolic pathway enzymes and transcriptional regulators. Analysis of RNA-seq alignments identified developmentally regulated alternative splicing, promoter use, and 3? end formation. Conclusions: We report genome sequence, gene models, functional annotations, and RNA-Seq expression data that provide an important new resource enabling high throughput studies in blueberry. RNA-Seq data are freely available for visualization in Integrated Genome Browser, and analysis code is available from the git repository at http://bitbucket.org/lorainelab/blueberrygenome.', u'Although the past decade has seen tremendous progress in our understanding of fine-scale recombination, little is known about non-crossover (NCO) gene conversion. We report the first genome-wide study of NCO events in humans. Using SNP array data from 98 meioses, we identified 103 sites affected by NCO, of which 50/52 were confirmed in sequence data. Overlap with double strand break (DSB) hotspots indicates that the events are likely of meiotic origin. We estimate that a site is involved in a NCO at a rate of 5.7\xd710-6/bp/generation, consistent with sperm-typing studies, and infer that tract lengths span at least an order of magnitude. Observed NCO events show strong allelic bias at heterozygous AT/GC SNPs, with 68% (58?78%) transmitting GC alleles (P=5\xd710-4). Strikingly, in 4 of 15 regions for which there are also resequencing data, multiple disjoint NCO tracts cluster in close proximity (~20?30 kb), a phenomenon not previously seen in mammals.', u'Integrated -omics approaches are quickly spreading across microbiology research labs, leading to i) the possibility of detecting previously hidden features of microbial cells like multi-scale spatial organisation and ii) tracing molecular components across multiple cellular functional states. This promises to reduce the knowledge gap between genotype and phenotype and poses new challenges for computational microbiologists. We underline how the capability to unravel the complexity of microbial life will strongly depend on the integration of the huge and diverse amount of information that can be derived today from -omics experiments. In this work, we present opportunities and challenges of multi \u2013omics data integration in current systems biology pipelines. We here discuss which layers of biological information are important for biotechnological and clinical purposes, with a special focus on bacterial metabolism and modelling procedures. A general review of the most recent computational tools for performing large-scale datasets integration is also presented, together with a possible framework to guide the design of systems biology experiments by microbiologists.', u'Good science must be clearly transparent in its theories, models and experiments. Earlier David Tilman drew attention to the fact that ecologists investigate interspecific competition phenomenologically, rather than mechanistically. To create a mechanistic model of a complex dynamic system we need to logically describe interactions of its subsystems which lead to emergence of new properties on the macro-level. There are black-box, grey-box and white-box models of complex systems. Black-box models are completely nonmechanistic. We cannot investigate interactions of subsystems of such non-transparent model. A white-box model of a complex system has ?transparent walls? and directly shows underlined mechanistic mechanisms ? all events at micro-, meso- and macro- levels of the modeled dynamic system are directly visible at all stages. Grey-box models are intermediate. Basic ecological models are of black-box type, e.g. Malthusian, Verhulst, Lotka-Volterra models. These models are not individual-based and cannot show features of local interactions of individuals of competing species. That is why they principally cannot provide a mechanistic insight into interspecific competition. To create a white-box model we need \u0430 physical theory of the object domain and its intrinsic axiomatic system. On the basis of axiomatic system there is a possibility to logically generate a new knowledge by logical deterministic cellular automata. Understanding of biodiversity mechanisms is the global research priority. Only knowledge of mechanisms of interspecific interactions can allow us to efficiently operate in the field of biodiversity conservation. Obviously that such knowledge must be based on mechanistic models of species coexistence. In order to create a serviceable theory of biodiversity it is necessary to renew attempts to create a basic mechanistic model of species coexistence. But the question arises: Why ecological modelers prefer to use the heaviest black-box mathematical methods which cannot produce mechanistic models of complex dynamic systems in principle, and why they do not use simple and long-known pure logical deterministic cellular automata, which easily can produce white-box models and directly generate clear mechanistic insights into dynamics of complex systems?', u'To study olfaction,\u2029        first we should know which physical or chemical properties of odorant molecules determine \u2029\tthe response of olfactory receptor neurons, \u2029\tand then we should study the effect of those properties on the combinatorial encoding in olfactory system.\u2029\t\u2029\tIn this work we show that the response of an olfactory receptor neuron in Drosophila depends on molecular volume of an odorant;  \u2029\tThe molecular volume determines the upper limits of the neural response, \u2029\twhile the actual neural response may depend on other properties of the molecules.\u2029\tEach olfactory receptor prefers a particular volume, \u2029\twith some degree of flexibility.\u2029\tThese two parameters predict the volume and flexibility of the binding-pocket of the olfactory receptors, \u2029\twhich are the targets of structural biology studies. \u2029\t\u2029\tAt the end we argue that the molecular volume can affects the quality of perceived smell of an odorant via the combinatorial encoding,\u2029\tmolecular volume may mask other underlying relations between properties of molecules and neural responses \u2029\tand we suggest a way to improve the selection of odorants in further experimental studies.', u'Populations arrayed along broad latitudinal gradients often show patterns of clinal variation in phenotype and genotype. Such population differentiation can be generated and maintained by historical demographic events and local adaptation. These evolutionary forces are not mutually exclusive and, moreover, can in some cases produce nearly identical patterns of genetic differentiation among populations. Here, we investigate the evolutionary forces that generated and maintain clinal variation genome-wide among populations of Drosophila melanogaster sampled in North America and Australia. We contrast patterns of clinal variation in these continents with patterns of differentiation among ancestral European and African populations. Using established and novel methods we derive here, we show that recently derived North America and Australia populations were likely founded by both European and African lineages and that this admixture event contributed to genome-wide patterns of parallel clinal variation. The pervasive effects of admixture meant that only a handful of loci could be attributed to the operation of spatially varying selection using an FST outlier approach. Our results provide novel insight into the well-studied system of clinal differentiation in D. melanogaster and provide a context for future studies seeking to identify loci contributing to local adaptation in a wide variety of organisms, including other invasive species as well as some temperate endemics.', u'The function of long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) depends on their location within the cell. While most studies to date have concentrated on their nuclear roles in transcriptional regulation, evidence is mounting that lncRNA also have cytoplasmic roles. Here we comprehensively map the cytoplasmic and ribosomal lncRNA population in a human cell. Three-quarters (74%) of lncRNAs are detected in the cytoplasm, the majority of which (62%) preferentially cofractionate with polyribosomes. Ribosomal lncRNA are highly expressed across tissues, under purifying evolutionary selection, and have cytoplasmic-to-nuclear ratios comparable to mRNAs and consistent across cell types. LncRNAs may be classified into three groups by their ribosomal interaction: non-ribosomal cytoplasmic lncRNAs, and those associated with either heavy or light polysomes. A number of mRNA-like features destin lncRNA for light polysomes, including capping and 5\u2032UTR length, but not cryptic open reading frames or polyadenylation. Surprisingly, exonic retroviral sequences antagonise recruitment. In contrast, it appears that lncRNAs are recruited to heavy polysomes through basepairing to mRNAs. Finally, we show that the translation machinery actively degrades lncRNA. We propose that light polysomal lncRNAs are translationally engaged, while heavy polysomal lncRNAs are recruited indirectly. These findings point to extensive and reciprocal regulatory interactions between lncRNA and the translation machinery.', u'Introgression is the transfer of genes or genomic regions from one species into another via hybridization and back-crosses.  We have introgressed four translocations (EB4, IBj5, UK14-1, and B362i) from Neurospora crassa into N. tetrasperma.  This enabled us to construct heterokaryotic [T + N] and [Dp + Df] strains in which the mat-A and mat-a nuclei have different genotypes.  Self-crosses of the heterokaryons again produced [T + N] and [Dp + Df] progeny.  From conidia (vegetative spores) produced by the heterokaryotic mycelia we obtained self-fertile (heterokaryotic) and self-sterile (homokaryotic) derivative strains. [T + N] heterokaryons produced homokaryotic derivatives of both mating types, but [Dp + Df] heterokaryons produced viable homokaryons of only the mating type of the Dp nucleus. All the four [T + N] heterokaryons, and three [Dp + Df] heterokaryons, produced both self-sterile and self-fertile conidial derivatives, but the [Dp(B362i) + Df(B362i)] heterokaryons produced only self-sterile ones.  Conceivably, the Df(B362i) nuclei may be deleted for a nucleus-limited gene required for efficient mitosis or nuclear division, and whose deficit is not complemented by the neighboring Dp(B362i) nuclei.  Repeat-induced point mutation (RIP) was shown to occur in a Dp-heterozygous cross, therefore RIP-alteration of a translocated segment would depend on relative numbers of self-crosses undergone in [Dp + Df] versus [T + N] ancestors.', u'The 2014 epidemic of the Ebola virus is governed by a genetically diverse viral population. In the early Sierra Leone outbreak, a recent study has identified new mutations that generate genetically distinct sequence clades. Here we find evidence that major Sierra Leone clades have systematic differences in growth rate and reproduction number. If this growth heterogeneity remains stable, it will generate major shifts in clade frequencies and influence the overall epidemic dynamics on time scales within the current outbreak. Our method is based on simple summary statistics of clade growth, which can be inferred from genealogical trees with an underlying clade-specific birth-death model of the infection dynamics. This method can be used to perform realtime tracking of an evolving epidemic and identify emerging clades of epidemiological or evolutionary significance.', u'Since the invention of DNA sequencing in the seventies, computational biologists have had to deal with the problem de novo genome assembly with limited (or insufficient) depth of sequencing.  In this work, for the first time we investigate the opposite problem, that is, the challenge of dealing with excessive depth of sequencing. Specifically, we explore the effect of ultra-deep sequencing data in two domains: (i) the problem of decoding reads to BAC clones (in the context of the combinatorial pooling design proposed by our group), and (ii) the problem of de novo assembly of BAC clones. Using real ultra-deep sequencing data, we show that when the depth of sequencing increases over a certain threshold, sequencing errors make these two problems harder and harder (instead of easier, as one would expect with error-free data), and as a consequence the quality of the solution degrades with more and more data.  For the first problem, we propose an effective solution based on "divide and conquer": we "slice" a large dataset into smaller samples of optimal size, decode each slice independently, then merge the results.  Experimental results on over 15,000 barley BACs and over 4,000 cowpea BACs demonstrate a significant improvement in the quality of the decoding and the final assembly. For the second problem, we show for the first time that modern de novo assemblers cannot take advantage of ultra-deep sequencing data.', u'Human epilepsies encompass a wide variety of clinical, behavioral and electrical manifestations. Correspondingly, studies of this disease in nonhuman animals have brought forward an equally wide array of animal models, i.e. species and acute or chronic seizure induction protocols. Epilepsy research has a long history of comparative anatomical and physiological studies on a range of mostly mammalian species. Nonetheless, a relatively limited number of rodent models emerged as the primary choices for most epilepsy-related investigations. In many cases these animal models are selected based on convenience or tradition, though technical or experimental rationale does, and should, factor into these decisions. More complex mammalian brains and, especially, genetic model organisms including zebrafish have been studied less but offer significant advantages that are being widely recognized.', u'Hunchback (Hb) is a bifunctional transcription factor that activates and represses distinct enhancers. Here, we investigate the hypothesis that Hb can activate and repress the same enhancer. Computational models predicted that Hb bifunctionally regulates the even-skipped (eve) stripe 3+7 enhancer (eve3+7) in Drosophila blastoderm embryos. We measured and modeled eve expression at cellular resolution under multiple genetic perturbations and found that the eve3+7 enhancer could not explain endogenous eve stripe 7 behavior. Instead, we found that eve stripe 7 is controlled by two enhancers: the canonical eve3+7 and a sequence encompassing the minimal eve stripe 2 enhancer (eve2+7). Hb bifunctionally regulates eve stripe 7, but it executes these two activities on different pieces of regulatory DNA?it activates the eve2+7 enhancer and represses the eve3+7 enhancer. These two ?shadow enhancers? use different regulatory logic to create the same pattern.', u'In this paper we discuss data and methodological\nchallenges for building bacterial communication networks using\ntwo examples: Escherichia coli as a flagellate bacterium and of\nGeobacter sulfurreducens as a biofilm forming bacterium. We first\nhighlight the link between the bacterial network communication\ndesign with respect to metabolic information processing design.\nThe potentialities of designing routing network schemes described\npreviously in literature and based on bacteria motility and genetic\nmessage exchanges will depend on the genes coding for the\nintracellular and intercellular signalling pathways. In bacteria,\nthe \u201cmobilome\u201d is related to horizontal gene transfer. Bacteria\ntrade off the acquisition of new genes which could improve their\nsurvival (and often their communication bandwidth), keeping\ntheir genome enough small to assure quick DNA replication\nand increase fast the biomass to speed up cell division. First,\nby using a multi-objective optimisation procedure, we search\nfor the optimal trade off between energy production, which is\na requirement for the motility, and the biomass growth, which\nis related to the overall survival and fitness of the bacterium.\nWe use flux balance analysis of genome-scale biochemical network\nof Escherichia coli k-13 MG1655. Then, as a second case\nstudy we analyze the electric properties and biomass trade-off\nof the bacterium Geobacter sulfurreducens which constructs an\nelectric biofilm where electrons move across the nanowires. Here\nwe discuss the potentialities of optimisation methodologies to\ndesign and select bacterial strains with desiderata properties.\nThe optimisation methodologies establish also a relation between\nmetabolism, network communication and computing. Moreover,\nwe point to genetic design and synthetic biology as', u'The widely used Translation Libration Screw (TLS) approximation describes concerted motions of atomic groups in X-ray refinement.  TLS refinement often provides a better interpretation of diffraction data and the resulting rigid body motions may subsequently be assigned biochemical significance. In TLS refinement, three matrices (T, L and S) describe harmonic vibration, libration and their correlation. Because these matrices describe specific motions, they impose a number of conditions on their elements. Ignoring these conditions while refining the matrix elements may result in matrices that cannot be interpreted in terms of physically realistic motions. We describe a mathematical framework and the computational tools to analyze refined TLS matrices through their decomposition into descriptors of underlying motions. This allows for straightforward validation and identification of implausible TLS parameters. An algorithm for the generation of structural ensembles that are consistent with given TLS parameters, implemented as a part of the Phenix project, is also described.', u'Identifying the intramolecular motions of proteins and nucleic acids is a major challenge in macromolecular X-ray crystallography. While Bragg diffraction describes the average positional distribution of crystalline atoms, many different models can fit this distribution equally well. Diffuse X-ray scattering can reduce this degeneracy by directly reporting on correlated atomic displacements. Although recent technological advances are increasing the potential to accurately measure diffuse scattering, computational modeling and validation tools are still needed to quantify the agreement between experimental data and different parameterizations of crystalline disorder. A new tool, phenix.diffuse, addresses this need by employing Guinier\u2019s equation to calculate diffuse scattering from Protein Data Bank (PDB)-formatted structural ensembles. As an example case, phenix.diffuse is applied to Translation-Libration-Screw (TLS) refinement, which models rigid body displacement for segments of the macromolecule. To enable calculation of diffuse scattering from TLS refined structures, phenix.tls_models builds multi-model PDB files that sample the underlying T, L and S tensors. In the glycerophosphodiesterase GpdQ, alternative TLS group partitioning and different motional correlations between groups yield markedly dissimilar diffuse scattering maps with distinct implications for molecular mechanism and allostery. These methods demonstrate how X-ray diffuse scattering can extend macromolecular structural refinement, validation, and analysis.', u'The mosquito Aedes aegypti is a potent vector of the Chikungunya, yellow fever, and Dengue viruses, which result in hundreds of millions of infections and over 50,000 human deaths per year. Loss-of-function mutagenesis in Ae. aegypti has been established with TALENs, ZFNs, and homing endonucleases, which require the engineering of DNA-binding protein domains to generate target specificity for a particular stretch of genomic DNA. Here, we describe the first use of the CRISPR-Cas9 system to generate targeted, site-specific mutations in Ae. aegypti. CRISPR-Cas9 relies on RNA-DNA base-pairing to generate targeting specificity, resulting in cheaper, faster, and more flexible genome-editing reagents. We investigate the efficiency of reagent concentrations and compositions,  demonstrate the ability of CRISPR-Cas9 to generate several different types of mutations via disparate repair mechanisms, and show that stable germ-line mutations can be readily generated at the vast majority of genomic loci tested. This work offers a detailed exploration into the optimal use of CRISPR-Cas9 in Ae. aegypti that should be applicable to non-model organisms previously out of reach of genetic modification.', u'In protein evolution, due to functional and biophysical constraints, the rates of amino acid substitution differ from site to site. Among the best predictors of site-specific rates is packing density. The packing density measure that best correlates with rates is the weighted contact number (WCN), the sum of inverse square distances between the site\u2019s C\u03b1  and the other C\u03b1s . According to a mechanistic stress model proposed recently, rates are determined by packing because mutating packed sites stresses and destabilizes the protein\u2019s active conformation. While WCN is a measure of C\u03b1 packing, mutations replace side chains, which prompted us to consider whether a site\u2019s evolutionary divergence is constrained by main-chain packing or side-chain packing. To address this issue, we extended the stress theory to model side chains explicitly. The theory predicts that rates should depend solely on side-chain packing. We tested these predictions on a data set of structurally and functionally diverse monomeric enzymes. We found that, on average, side-chain contact density (WCN\u03c1 ) explains 39.1% of among-sites rate variation, larger than main-chain contact density (WCN\u03b1 ) which explains 32.1%. More importantly, the independent contribution of WCN\u03b1 is only 0.7%. Thus, as predicted by the stress theory, site-specific evolutionary rates are determined by side-chain packing.', u'What are the neural correlates of consciousness? Studies that have addressed this question in the past either compared neural activity during tasks in which subjects report perceiving a stimulus or not, or have contrasted conscious wakefulness with unconscious sleep or anesthesia. However, such contrasts may include correlates of stimulus processing, response preparation or of changes in behavioral state, rather than of consciousness per se. To overcome these limitations, we developed a no-task, within-state paradigm in which sleeping subjects recorded with high density-EEG reported retrospectively whether they had been conscious or not. We identified specific frontal and parieto-occipital regions showing EEG changes several seconds preceding awakenings that distinguished between reports of consciousness and unconsciousness. While decreased parieto-occipital low-frequency activity was associated with highly perceptual experiences, increased frontal high-frequency activity was associated with highly thought-like experiences. Finally, we identified localized, content-specific activations for faces, spatial setting, movement and speech experienced in dreams.', u'Study of the disease demographics in human population indicates that cardiac ailments are the primary cause of premature death, and a need for emergent technologies is felt to address the rising trend. However, development of automated heart sound analysis system and its usage at the grassroot levels for cardiac pre-screening have been hindered by the lack proper understanding of the intrinsic characteristics of cardiac auscultation. In this article we present an investigatory report based on a nationwide survey conducted on the practice of cardiac auscultation for determination of its effectiveness in diagnosis. The aims are to achieve better validation of heart sound acquisition methods and use the clinical feedback from cardiologists for improvements in the classification of the cardiac abnormalities. Results obtained from six different classifiers used in the study are illustrated, which show a remarkable specificity using an improvised classification hierarchy, derived based on clinical recommendations. The study addresses the needs for better understanding of the relevancy of heart sound signal parameters, recording transducers, recording location and the inherent complexity associated in interpretation of heart sounds, specially in noisy environments of out-patient departments and primary healthcare centers. Further, the inter-relationship between heart sound and other advance medical imaging modalities, and the need for more focused training in cardiac auscultation among the medical and paramedical staff is investigated.', u'Understanding the differences between microarray and RNA-Seq technologies for measuring gene expression is necessary for informed design of experiments and choice of data analysis methods. Previous comparisons have come to sometimes contradictory conclusions, which we suggest result from a lack of attention to the intensity-dependent nature of variation generated by the technologies. To examine this trend, we carried out a parallel nested experiment performed simultaneously on the two technologies that systematically split variation into four stages (treatment, biological variation, library preparation, and chip/lane noise), allowing a separation and comparison of the sources of variation in a well-controlled cellular system, Saccharomyces cerevisiae. With this novel dataset, we demonstrate that power and accuracy are more dependent on per-gene read depth in RNA-Seq than they are on fluorescence intensity in microarrays. However, we carried out qPCR validations which indicate that microarrays may demonstrate greater systematic bias in low-intensity genes than in RNA-seq.', u'I review recent literature on the reconstruction of gene repertoire of the Last Universal Common Ancestor of cellular life (LUCA). The form of the phylogenetic record of cellular life on Earth is important to know in order to reconstruct any ancestral state; therefore I also discuss the emerging understanding that this record does not take the form of a tree. I argue that despite this, \u201ctree-thinking\u201d remains an essential component in evolutionary thinking and that \u201cpattern pluralism\u201d in evolutionary biology can be only epistemological, but not ontological.', u'Viral outbreaks, such as the 2014 ebolavirus, can spread rapidly and have complex evolutionary dynamics, including coinfection and bulk transmission of multiple viral populations. Genomic surveillance can be hindered when the spread of the outbreak exceeds the evolutionary rate, in which case consensus approaches will have limited resolution. Deep sequencing of infected patients can identify genomic variants present in intrahost populations at subclonal frequencies (i.e. <50%). Shared subclonal variants (SSVs) can provide additional phylogenetic resolution and inform about disease transmission patterns. Here, we use metrics from population genetics to analyze data from the 2014 ebolavirus outbreak in Sierra Leone and identify phylogenetic signal arising from SSVs. We use methods derived from information theory to measure a lower bound on transmission bottleneck size that is larger than one founder population, yet significantly smaller than the intrahost effective population. Our results demonstrate the important role of shared subclonal variants in genomic surveillance.', u'A significant feature of the genomes of Lepidoptera, butterflies and moths, is the high conservation of chromosome organization. Recent remarkable progress in genome sequencing of Lepidoptera has revealed that syntenic gene order is extensively conserved across phylogenetically distant species. The ancestral karyotype of Lepidoptera is thought to be n = 31; however, that of the most well studied moth, Bombyx mori, is n = 28, suggesting that three chromosomal fusion events occurred in this lineage. To identify the boundaries between predicted ancient fusions involving B. mori chromosomes 11, 23 and 24, we constructed FISH-based chromosome maps of the European corn borer, Ostrinia nubilalis (n = 31). We first determined 511 Mb genomic sequence of the Asian corn borer, Ostrinia furnacalis, a congener of O. nubilalis, and isolated BAC and fosmid clones that were expected to localize in candidate regions for the boundaries using these sequences. Combined with FISH and genetic analysis, we narrowed down the candidate regions to 40kb ??? 1.5Mb, in strong agreement with a previous estimate based on the genome of a butterfly, Melitaea cinxia. The significant difference in the lengths of the candidate regions where no functional genes were observed may reflect the evolutionary time after fusion events.', u"Genomic conflicts arise when an allele gains an evolutionary advantage at a cost to organismal fitness. Oogenesis is inherently susceptible to such conflicts because alleles compete for inclusion into the egg. Alleles that distort meiosis in their favor (i.e. meiotic drivers) often decrease organismal fitness, and therefore indirectly favor the evolution of mechanisms to suppress meiotic drive. In this light, many facets of oogenesis and gametogenesis have been interpreted as mechanisms of protection against genomic outlaws. That females of many animal species do not complete meiosis until after fertilization, appears to run counter to this interpretation, because this delay provides an opportunity for sperm-acting alleles to meddle with the outcome of female meiosis and help like alleles drive in heterozygous females. Contrary to this perceived danger, the population genetic theory presented herein suggests that, in fact, sperm nearly always evolve to increase the fairness of female meiosis in the face of genomic conflicts. These results are consistent with the apparent sperm dependence of the best characterized female meiotic drivers in animals. Rather than providing an opportunity for sperm collaboration in female meiotic drive, the 'fertilization requirement' indirectly protects females from meiotic drivers by providing sperm an opportunity to suppress drive.", u'Cells respond to their environment by modulating protein levels\nthrough mRNA transcription and post-transcriptional control. Modest observed\ncorrelations between global steady-state mRNA and protein measurements\nhave been interpreted as evidence that mRNA levels determine\nroughly 40% of the variation in protein levels, indicating dominant\npost-transcriptional effects. However, the techniques underlying these\nconclusions, such as correlation and regression, yield biased results\nwhen data are noisy, missing systematically, and collinear---properties\nof mRNA and protein measurements---which motivated us to revisit this\nsubject. Noise-robust analyses of 24 studies of budding yeast reveal\nthat mRNA levels explain more than 85% of the variation in steady-state\nprotein levels. Protein levels are not proportional to mRNA levels, but rise much more rapidly. Regulation of translation suffices to explain this nonlinear effect, revealing post-transcriptional amplification of, rather than competition with, transcriptional signals. These results substantially revise widely credited models of protein-level regulation, and introduce multiple noise-aware approaches essential for proper analysis of many biological phenomena.', u'A conserved hallmark of eukaryotic chromatin architecture is the distinctive array of well-positioned nucleosomes downstream of transcription start sites (TSS). Recent studies indicate that trans-acting factors establish this stereotypical array. Here, we present the first genome-wide in vitro and in vivo nucleosome maps for the ciliate Tetrahymena thermophila. In contrast with previous studies in yeast, we find that the stereotypical nucleosome array is preserved in the in vitro reconstituted map, which is governed only by the DNA sequence preferences of nucleosomes. Remarkably, this average in vitro pattern arises from the presence of subsets of nucleosomes, rather than the whole array, in individual Tetrahymena genes. Variation in GC content contributes to the positioning of these sequence-directed nucleosomes, and affects codon usage and amino acid composition in genes. We propose that these \u2018seed\u2019 nucleosomes may aid the AT-rich Tetrahymena genome \u2013 which is intrinsically unfavorable for nucleosome formation \u2013 in establishing nucleosome arrays in vivo in concert with trans-acting factors, while minimizing changes to the coding sequences they are embedded within.', u'Almost all of mammalian genes have mRNA variants due to alternative promoters, alternative splice sites, and alternative cleavage and polyadenylation sites. In most cases, change in transcript due to choosing alternative cleavage and polyadenylation sites does not lead to change in protein sequence, while selection of alternative promoters and alternative splice sites would alter protein sequence. Nevertheless, all these alternations would give rise to different RNA isoforms. Selection of alternative RNA isoforms has been found to be associated with change in condition. For example, many studies have revealed that alternative cleavage and polyadenylation (poly(A)) are correlated to proliferation, differentiation, and cellular transformation. Thus, unlike gene expression in microarray, change in usage of splice sites or poly(A) sites associated with conditions does not involve differential expression and hence cannot be detected by differential analysis methods but can be done by association methods. Traditional association methods such as Pearson chi-square test and Fisher Exact test are single test methods and do not work on the RNA count data derived from replicate libraries. For this reason, we here developed a large-scale association method, called ranking analysis of chi-squares (RAX2). Simulations demonstrated that RAX2 worked well for finding association of changes in usage of poly(A) sites with condition change. We applied our RAX2 to our primary T-cell transcriptomic data of over 9899 tags scattered in 3812 genes and found that 1610 (16.3%) tags were associated in transcription with immune stimulation at FDR < 0.05. Analysis of two and three tags within genes revealed that under immune stimulation, short RNA isoforms were significantly preferably used. Like cell proliferation and division, short RNA isoforms are highly prioritized to be used for cell growth.', u'The emergence of next generation DNA sequencing technology is enabling high-resolution cancer genome analysis. Large-scale projects like the International Cancer Genome Consortium (ICGC) are systematically scanning cancer genomes to identify recurrent somatic mutations. Second generation DNA sequencing, however, is still an evolving technology and procedures, both experimental and analytical, are constantly changing. Thus the research community is still defining a set of best practices for cancer genome data analysis, with no single protocol emerging to fulfil this role. Here we describe an extensive benchmark exercise to identify and resolve issues of somatic mutation calling. Whole genome sequence datasets comprising tumor-normal pairs from two different types of cancer, chronic lymphocytic leukaemia and medulloblastoma, were shared within the ICGC and submissions of somatic mutation calls were compared to verified mutations and to each other.  Varying strategies to call mutations, incomplete awareness of sources of artefacts, and even lack of agreement on what constitutes an artefact or real mutation manifested in widely varying mutation call rates and somewhat low concordance among submissions. We conclude that somatic mutation calling remains an unsolved problem. However, we have identified many issues that are easy to remedy that are presented here. Our study highlights critical issues that need to be addressed before this valuable technology can be routinely used to inform clinical decision-making.', u'Standard game theory cannot describe microbial interactions mediated by diffusible molecules. Nevertheless, we show that one can still model microbial dynamics using game theory with parameters renormalized by diffusion. Contrary to expectations, greater sharing of metabolites reduces the strength of cooperation and leads to species extinction via a nonequilibrium phase transition. We report analytic results for the critical diffusivity and the length scale of species intermixing. We also show that fitness nonlinearities suppress mutualism and favor the species producing slower nutrients.', u"We propose a mathematical theory for how networks of neurons in the brain  self-organize into functional networks, similarly to the self-organization of supply networks in a free-market economy. The theory is inspired by recent experimental results showing how information about changes to output synapses can travel backward along axons to affect a neuron's inputs. In neuronal development, competition for such ``retroaxonal'' signals determines which neurons live and which die. We suggest that in adults, an analogous form of competition occurs between neurons, to supply their targets with appropriate information in exchange for a ``payment'' returned to them backward along the axon. We review experimental evidence suggesting that neurotrophins may constitute such a signaling pathway in the adult brain.\n\t\nWe construct a mathematical model, in which a small number of ``consumer'' neurons receive explicit fast error signals while a larger number of ``producer'' neurons compete to supply them with information, guided by retroaxonal signals from the consumers and from each other. We define a loss function to measure network performance and define the ``worth'' of a producer to be the increase in loss that would result if that neuron were to fall silent. We show how slow retroaxonal signals can allow producers to estimate their worth, and how these estimates allow the network to perform a form of parallel search over multiple producer cells. We validate our approximations and demonstrate the proposed learning rule using simulations.", u'Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) technologies have become the standard for data generation in studies of population genomics, as the 1000 Genomes Project (1000G). However, these techniques are known to be problematic when applied to highly polymorphic genomic regions, such as the Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) genes. Because accurate genotype calls and allele frequency estimations are crucial to population genomics analises, it is important to assess the reliability of NGS data. Here, we evaluate the reliability of genotype calls and allele frequency estimates of the SNPs reported by 1000G (phase I) at five HLA genes (HLA-A, -B, -C, -DRB1, -DQB1 ). We take advantage of the availability of HLA Sanger sequencing of 930 of the 1,092 1000G samples, and use this as a gold standard to benchmark the 1000G data. We document that 18.6% of SNP genotype calls in HLA genes are incorrect, and that allele frequencies are estimated with an error higher than ??0.1 at approximately 25% of the SNPs in HLA genes. We found a bias towards overestimation of reference allele frequency for the 1000G data, indicating mapping bias is an important cause of error in frequency estimation in this dataset. We provide a list of sites that have poor allele frequency estimates, and discuss the outcomes of including those sites in different kinds of analyses. Since the HLA region is the most polymorphic in the human genome, our results provide insights into the challenges of using of NGS data at other genomic regions of high diversity.', u'Myogenesis is an important process during both development and muscle repair.  Previous studies suggest that mTORC1 plays a role in the formation of mature muscle from immature muscle precursor cells.  Here we show that gene expression for several myogenic transcription factors including Myf5, Myog and Mef2c but not MyoD and myosin heavy chain isoforms decrease when C2C12 cells are treated with rapamycin, supporting a role for mTORC1 pathway during muscle development.  To investigate the possibility that mTORC1 can regulate muscle in vivo we ablated the essential dTORC1 subunit Raptor in Drosophila melanogaster and found that muscle-specific knockdown of Raptor causes flies to be too weak to emerge from their pupal cases during eclosion.  Using a series of GAL4 drivers we also show that muscle-specific Raptor knockdown also causes shortened lifespan, even when eclosure is unaffected.  Together these results highlight an important role for TORC1 in muscle development, integrity and function in both Drosophila and mammalian cells.', u'Understanding the molecular basis of species formation is an important goal in evolutionary genetics, and Dobzhansky-Muller incompatibilities are thought to be a common source of postzygotic reproductive isolation between closely related lineages. However, the evolutionary forces that lead to the accumulation of such incompatibilities between diverging taxa are poorly understood. Segregation distorters are believed to be an important source of Dobzhansky-Muller incompatibilities between Drosophila species and crop plants, but it remains unclear if these selfish genetic elements contribute to reproductive isolation in other species. Here, we collected viable sperm from first-generation hybrid male progeny of Mus musculus castaneus and M. m. domesticus, two subspecies of rodent in the earliest stages of speciation. We then genotyped millions of single nucleotide polymorphisms in these gamete pools and tested for a skew in the frequency of parental alleles across the genome. We show that segregation distorters are not measurable contributors to observed infertility in these hybrid males, despite sufficient statistical power to detect even weak segregation distortion with our novel method. Thus, reduced hybrid male fertility in crosses between these nascent species is attributable to other evolutionary forces.', u'This study aims to describe associations between the occurrence of entomopathogenic fungi and parasitic flies of the family Muscidae and behaviors presented by these flies parasitized in an urban fragment of semideciduous forest in Brazil. Were recorded two species of entomopathogenic fungi parasitizing flies collected for the first time in the localities, E. muscae and O. sp. Different from Diptera parasitized by different fungi behaviors were observed. These new records of occurrence, along with data on their hosts, suggest that many species of this group have not yet registered.', u'Summary: The association of organisms to their environments is a key issue in exploring biodiversity patterns. This knowledge has traditionally been scattered, but textual descriptions of taxa and their habitats are now being consolidated in centralized resources. However, structured annotations are needed to facilitate large-scale analyses. Therefore, we developed ENVIRONMENTS, a fast dictionary-based tagger capable of identifying Environment Ontology (ENVO) terms in text. We evaluate the accuracy of the tagger on a new manually curated corpus of 600 Encyclopedia Of Life (EOL) species pages. We use the tagger to associate taxa with environments by tagging EOL text content monthly, and integrate the results into the EOL to disseminate them to a broad audience of users.\nAvailability and implementation: The software and the corpus are available under the open-source BSD and the CC-BY-NC-SA 3.0 licenses, respectively, at http://environments.hcmr.gr', u'While most adult Lepidoptera use flower nectar as their primary food source, butterflies in the genus Heliconius have evolved the novel ability to acquire amino acids from consuming pollen. Heliconius butterflies collect pollen on their proboscis, moisten the pollen with saliva, and use a combination of mechanical disruption and chemical degradation to release free amino acids that are subsequently re-ingested in the saliva.  Little is known about the molecular mechanisms of this complex pollen feeding adaptation. Here we report an initial shotgun proteomic analysis of saliva from Heliconius melpomene. Results from liquid-chromatography tandem mass-spectrometry confidently identified 31 salivary proteins, most of which contained predicted signal peptides, consistent with extracellular secretion.  Further bioinformatic annotation of these salivary proteins indicated the presence of four distinct functional classes: proteolysis (10 proteins), carbohydrate hydrolysis (5), immunity (6), and "housekeeping"(4).  Additionally, six proteins could not be functionally annotated beyond containing a predicted signal sequence.  The presence of several salivary proteases is consistent with previous demonstrations that Heliconius saliva has proteolytic capacity. It is likely these proteins play a key role in generating free amino acids during pollen digestion. The identification of proteins functioning in carbohydrate hydrolysis is consistent with Heliconius butterflies consuming nectar, like other lepidopterans, as well as pollen.  Immune-related proteins in saliva are also expected, given that ingestion of pathogens is a very likely route to infection.  The few "housekeeping" proteins are likely not true salivary proteins and reflect a modest level of contamination that occurred during saliva collection. Among the unannotated proteins were two sets of paralogs, each seemingly the result of a relatively recent tandem duplication.  These results offer a first glimpse into the molecular foundation of Heliconius pollen feeding and provide a substantial advance towards comprehensively understanding this striking evolutionary novelty.', u'Heterologous gene expression can be a significant burden to cells, consuming resources and causing decreased growth and stability. We describe here an in vivo monitor that tracks E. coli capacity changes in real-time and can be used to assay the burden synthetic constructs and their parts impose. By measuring capacity, construct designs with reduced burden can be identified and shown to predictably outperform less efficient designs, despite having equivalent expression outputs.', u'The bacterioplankton diversity in large rivers has thus far been undersampled, despite the importance of streams and rivers as components of continental landscapes. Here, we present a comprehensive dataset detailing the bacterioplankton diversity along the midstream of the Danube River and its tributaries. Using 16S rRNA-gene amplicon sequencing, our analysis revealed that bacterial richness and evenness gradually declined downriver in both the free-living and particle-associated bacterial communities. These shifts were also supported by beta diversity analysis, where the effects of tributaries were negligible in regards to the overall variation. In addition, the river was largely dominated by bacteria that are commonly observed in freshwaters. Dominated by the acI lineage, the freshwater SAR11 (LD12) and the Polynucleobacter group, typical freshwater taxa increased in proportion downriver and were accompanied by a decrease in soil and groundwater bacteria. Based on the River Continuum Concept, we explain these taxonomic patterns and the accompanying changes in alpha and beta diversity by the physical structure and chemical conditions coupled with the hydrologic cycle along the length of the river.(version 2.1 resubmitted to Environmental Microbiology 2014-Nov-17)', u'The distribution of fitness effects of new mutations (the DFE) is a key parameter in determining the course of evolution. This fact has motivated extensive efforts to measure the DFE or to predict it from first principles. However, just as the DFE determines the course of evolution, the evolutionary process itself constrains the DFE. Here, we analyze a simple model of genome evolution in a constant environment in which natural selection drives the population toward a dynamic steady state where beneficial and deleterious substitutions balance. The distribution of fitness effects at this steady state is stable under further evolution, and provides a natural null expectation for the DFE in a population that has evolved in a constant environment for a long time. We calculate how the shape of the evolutionarily stable DFE depends on the underlying population genetic parameters. We show that, in the absence of epistasis, the ratio of beneficial to deleterious mutations of a given fitness effect obeys a simple relationship independent of population genetic details. Finally, we analyze how the stable DFE changes in the presence of a simple form of diminishing returns epistasis.', u"A meaningful set of stimuli, such as a sequence of frames from a movie, triggers a set of different experiences. By contrast, a meaningless set of stimuli, such as a sequence of 'TV noise' frames, triggers always the same experience \u2013 of seeing 'TV noise' \u2013 even though the stimuli themselves are as different from each other as the movie frames. We reasoned that the differentiation of cortical responses underlying the subject's experiences, as measured by Lempel-Ziv complexity (incompressibility) of functional MRI images, should reflect the overall meaningfulness of a set of stimuli for the subject, rather than differences among the stimuli. We tested this hypothesis by quantifying the differentiation of brain activity patterns in response to a movie sequence, to the same movie scrambled in time, and to 'TV noise', where the pixels from each movie frame were scrambled in space. While overall cortical activation was strong and widespread in all conditions, the differentiation (Lempel-Ziv complexity) of brain activation patterns was correlated with the meaningfulness of the stimulus set, being highest in the movie condition, intermediate in the scrambled movie condition, and minimal for 'TV noise'. Stimulus set meaningfulness was also associated with higher information integration among cortical regions. These results suggest that the differentiation of neural responses can be used to assess the meaningfulness of a given set of stimuli for a given subject, without the need to identify the features and categories that are relevant to the subject, nor the precise location of selective neural responses.", u'Biodiversity maintenance and community evolution depend on the species interaction network. The "diversity-stability debate" has revealed that the complex interaction structure within real-world ecosystems determines how ecological communities respond to environmental changes, but can have opposite effects depending on the community type. Here we quantify the influence of shifts on community diversity and stability at both the species level and the community level. We use interaction networks from 19 real-world mutualistic communities and simulate shifts to antagonism. We demonstrate that both the placement of the shifting species in the community, as well as the structure of the interaction network as a whole contribute to stability and diversity maintenance under shifts. Our results suggest that the interaction structure of natural communities generally enhances community robustness against small ecological and evolutionary changes, but exacerbates the consequences of large changes.', u'The RNA-guided bacterial nuclease Cas9 can be reengineered as a programmable transcription factor by a series of changes to the Cas9 protein in addition to the fusion of a transcriptional activation domain (AD). However, the modest levels of gene activation achieved by current Cas9 activators have limited their potential applications. Here we describe the development of an improved transcriptional regulator through the rational design of a tripartite activator, VP64-p65-Rta (VPR), fused to Cas9. We demonstrate its utility in activating expression of endogenous coding and non-coding genes, targeting several genes simultaneously and stimulating neuronal differentiation of induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs).', u'Genome wide association studies provide an unbiased discovery mechanism for numerous human diseases. However, a frustration in the analysis of GWAS is that the majority of variants discovered do not directly alter protein-coding genes. We have developed a simple analysis approach that detects the tissue-specific regulatory component of a set of GWAS SNPs by identifying enrichment of overlap with DNase I hotspots from diverse tissue samples. Functional element Overlap analysis of the Results of GWAS Experiments (FORGE) is available as a web tool and as standalone software and provides tabular and graphical summaries of the enrichments.  Conducting FORGE analysis on SNP sets for 260 phenotypes available from the GWAS catalogue reveals numerous overlap enrichments with tissue\u2013specific components reflecting the known aetiology of the phenotypes as well as revealing other unforeseen tissue involvements that may lead to mechanistic insights for disease.', u'Perception of pathogen associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) by cell surface localized pattern recognition receptors (PPRs), activates plant basal defense responses in a process known as PAMP/PRR\u2013triggered immunity (PTI). In turn, pathogens deploy effector proteins that interfere with different steps in PTI signaling. However, our knowledge of PTI suppression by filamentous plant pathogens, i.e. fungi and oomycetes, remains fragmentary. Previous work revealed that BAK1/SERK3, a regulatory receptor of several PRRs, contributes to basal immunity against the Irish potato famine pathogen Phytophthora infestans. Moreover BAK1/SERK3 is required for the cell death induced by P. infestans elicitin INF1, a protein with characteristics of PAMPs. The P. infestans host-translocated RXLR-WY effector AVR3a is known to supress INF1-mediated defense by binding the E3 ligase CMPG1. In contrast, AVR3aKI-Y147del, a deletion mutant of the C-terminal tyrosine of AVR3a, fails to bind CMPG1 and suppress INF1 cell death. Here we studied the extent to which AVR3a and its variants perturb additional BAK1/SERK3 dependent PTI responses using the plant PRR FLAGELLIN SENSING 2 (FLS2). We found that all tested variants of AVR3a, including AVR3aKI-Y147del, suppress early defense responses triggered by the bacterial flagellin-derived peptide flg22 and reduce internalization of activated FLS2 from the plasma membrane without disturbing its nonactivated localization. Consistent with this effect of AVR3a on FLS2 endocytosis, we discovered that AVR3a associates with the Dynamin-Related Protein DRP2, a plant GTPase implicated in receptor-mediated endocytosis. Interestingly, DRP2 is required for ligand-induced FLS2 internalization but does not affect internalization of the growth receptor BRASSINOSTEROID INSENSITIVE 1 (BRI1). Furthermore, overexpression of DRP2 suppressed accumulation of reactive oxygen species triggered by PAMP treatment. We conclude that AVR3a associates with a key cellular trafficking and membrane-remodeling complex involved in immune receptor-mediated endocytosis and signaling. AVR3a is a multifunctional effector that can suppress BAK1/SERK3 mediated immunity through at least two different pathways.', u"Infections with rapidly evolving pathogens are often treated using combinations of drugs with different mechanisms of action. One of the major goals of combination therapy is to reduce the risk of drug resistance emerging during a patient's treatment. While this strategy generally has significant benefits over monotherapy, it may also select for multi-drug resistant strains, which present an important clinical and public health problem. For many antimicrobial treatment regimes, individual drugs have imperfect penetration throughout the body, so there may be regions where only one drug reaches an effective concentration. Here we propose that mismatched drug coverage can greatly speed up the evolution of multi-drug resistance by allowing mutations to accumulate in a stepwise fashion. We develop a mathematical model of within-host pathogen evolution under spatially heterogeneous drug coverage and demonstrate that even very small single-drug compartments lead to dramatically higher resistance risk. We find that it is often better to use drug combinations with matched penetration profiles, although there may be a trade-off between preventing eventual treatment failure due to resistance in this way, and temporarily reducing pathogen levels systemically. Our results show that drugs with the most extensive distribution are likely to be the most vulnerable to resistance. We conclude that optimal combination treatments should be designed to prevent this spatial effective monotherapy. These results are widely applicable to diverse microbial infections including viruses, bacteria and parasites.", u'The discovery of RNA interference (RNAi) in C. elegans has had a major impact on scientific research, led to the rapid development of RNAi tools and has inspired RNA-based therapeutics. Astonishingly, nematodes, planaria and many insects take up double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) from their environment to elicit RNAi; the biological function of this mechanism is unclear. Recently, the E. coli OxyS non-coding RNA was shown to regulate gene expression in C. elegans when E. coli is offered as food. This was surprising given that C. elegans is unlikely to encounter E. coli in nature. To directly test the hypothesis that the E. coli OxyS non-coding RNA triggers the C. elegans RNAi pathway, we sequenced small RNAs from C. elegans after feeding with bacteria. We clearly demonstrate that the OxyS non-coding RNA does not trigger an RNAi response in C. elegans. We conclude that the biology of environmental RNAi remains to be discovered.', u'Estimation set size is an important determinant of genomic prediction accuracy. Plant breeding programs are characterized by a high degree of structuring, particularly into populations. This hampers establishment of large estimation sets for each population. Pooling populations increases estimation set size but ignores unique genetic characteristics of each. A possible solution is partial pooling with multilevel models, which allows estimating population specific marker effects while still leveraging information across populations. We developed a Bayesian multilevel whole-genome regression model and compared its performance to that of the popular BayesA model applied to each population separately (no pooling) and to the joined data set (complete pooling). As example we analyzed a wide array of traits from the nested association mapping maize population. There we show that for small population sizes (e.g., < 50), partial pooling increased prediction accuracy over no or complete pooling for populations represented in the estimation set. No pooling was superior however when populations were large. In another example data set of interconnected biparental maize populations either partial or complete pooling were superior, depending on the trait. A simulation showed that no pooling is superior when differences in genetic effects among populations are large and partial pooling when they are intermediate. With small differences, partial and complete pooling achieved equally high accuracy. For prediction of new populations, partial and complete pooling had very similar accuracy in all cases. We conclude that partial pooling with multilevel models can maximize the potential of pooling by making optimal use of information in pooled estimation sets.', u'Amplified gene families on sex chromosomes can harbour genes with important biological functions, especially relating to fertility. The HSFY family has amplified on the Y chromosome of the domestic pig (Sus scrofa), in an apparently independent event to an HSFY expansion on the Y chromosome of cattle (Bos taurus). Although the biological functions of HSFY genes are poorly understood, they appear to be involved in gametogenesis in a number of mammalian species, and, in cattle, HSFY gene copy number correlates with levels of fertility.\n\nWe have investigated the HSFY family in domestic pigs, and other suid species including warthogs, bushpigs, babirusas and peccaries. The domestic pig contains at least two amplified variants of HSFY, distinguished predominantly by presence or absence of a SINE within the intron. Both these variants are expressed in testis, and both are present in approximately 50 copies each in a single cluster on the short arm of the Y. The longer form has multiple nonsense mutations rendering it likely non-functional, but many of the shorter forms still have coding potential. Other suid species also have these two variants of HSFY, and estimates of copy number suggest the HSFY family may have amplified independently twice during suid evolution. Given the association of HSFY gene copy number with fertility in cattle, HSFY is likely to play an important role in spermatogenesis in pigs also.', u'We have generated an improved assembly and gene annotation of the pig X chromosome, and a first draft assembly of the pig Y chromosome, by sequencing BAC and fosmid clones, and incorporating information from optical mapping and fibre-FISH. The X chromosome carries 1,014 annotated genes, 689 of which are protein-coding. Gene order closely matches that found in Primates (including humans) and Carnivores (including cats and dogs), which is inferred to be ancestral. Nevertheless, several protein-coding genes present on the human X chromosome were absent from the pig (e.g. the cancer/testis antigen family) or inactive (e.g. AWAT1), and 38 pig-specific X-chromosomal genes were annotated, 22 of which were olfactory receptors. The pig Y chromosome assembly focussed on two clusters of male-specific low-copy number genes, separated by an ampliconic region including the HSFY gene family, which together make up most of the short arm. Both clusters contain palindromes with high sequence identity, presumably maintained by gene conversion. The long arm of the chromosome is almost entirely repetitive, containing previously characterised sequences. Many of the ancestral X-related genes previously reported in at least one mammalian Y chromosome are represented either as active genes or partial sequences. This sequencing project has allowed us to identify genes - both single copy and amplified - on the pig Y, to compare the pig X and Y chromosomes for homologous sequences, and thereby to reveal mechanisms underlying pig X and Y chromosome evolution.', u'Sequence-specific interactions between proteins and DNA play a central role in DNA replication, repair, recombination, and control of gene expression. These interactions can be studied in vitro using microfluidics, protein-binding microarrays (PBMs), and other high-throughput techniques. Here we develop a biophysical approach to predicting protein-DNA binding specificities from high-throughput in vitro data. Our algorithm, called BindSter, accommodates multiple protein species competing for access to DNA and alternative binding modes of the same protein, while rigorously taking into account all sterically allowed configurations of DNA-bound particles. BindSter can be used with a hierarchy of protein-DNA interaction models of increasing complexity. We observe that the quality of BindSter predictions does not change significantly as some of the energy parameters vary over a sizable range. To take this degeneracy into account, we have developed a graphical representation of parameter uncertainties, called IntervalLogo. We find that our simplest model, in which each nucleotide in the binding site is treated independently, performs better than previous biophysical approaches. The extensions of this model, in which contributions of longer words are also considered, result in further improvements, underscoring the importance of higher-order effects in protein-DNA energetics. In contrast, we find little evidence for multiple binding modes for the transcription factors (TFs) in our dataset. Furthermore, there is limited consistency in predictions for the same TF  utilizing microfluidics and PBM experimental platforms.', u'Background: \nGroup B Sox proteins are a highly conserved group of transcription factors that act extensively to coordinate nervous system development in higher metazoans while showing both co-expression and functional redundancy across a broad group of taxa. In Drosophila melanogaster, the two group B Sox proteins Dichaete and SoxNeuro show widespread common binding across the genome. While some instances of functional compensation have been observed in Drosophila, the function of common binding and the extent of its evolutionary conservation is not known.\nResults:\nWe used DamID-seq to examine the genome-wide binding patterns of Dichaete and SoxNeuro in four species of Drosophila. Through a quantitative comparison of Dichaete binding, we evaluated the rate of binding site turnover across the genome as well as at specific functional sites. We also examined the presence of Sox motifs within binding intervals and the correlation between sequence conservation and binding conservation. To determine whether common binding between Dichaete and SoxNeuro is conserved, we performed a detailed analysis of the binding patterns of both factors in two species.  \nConclusion:\nWe find that, while the regulatory networks driven by Dichaete and SoxNeuro are largely conserved across the drosophilids studied, binding site turnover is widespread and correlated with phylogenetic distance. Nonetheless, binding is preferentially conserved at known cis-regulatory modules and core, independently verified binding sites. We observed the strongest binding conservation at sites that are commonly bound by Dichaete and SoxNeuro, suggesting that these sites are functionally important. Our analysis provides insights into the evolution of group B Sox function, highlighting the specific conservation of shared binding sites and suggesting alternative sources of neofunctionalisation between paralogous family members.', u'The neutral theory of molecular evolution predicts that the amount of neutral polymorphisms within a species will increase proportionally with the census population size (Nc). However, this prediction has not been borne out in practice: while the range of Nc spans many orders of magnitude, levels of genetic diversity within species fall in a comparatively narrow range. Although theoretical arguments have invoked the increased efficacy of natural selection in larger populations to explain this discrepancy, few direct empirical tests of this hypothesis have been conducted. In this work, we provide a direct test of this hypothesis using population genomic data from a wide range of taxonomically diverse species. To do this, we relied on the fact that the impact of natural selection on linked neutral diversity depends on the local recombinational environment. In regions of relatively low recombination, selected variants affect more neutral sites through linkage, and the resulting correlation between recombination and polymorphism allows a quantitative assessment of the magnitude of the impact of selection on linked neutral diversity. By comparing whole-genome polymorphism data and genetic maps using a coalescent modeling framework, we estimate the degree to which natural selection reduces linked neutral diversity for 40 species of obligately sexual eukaryotes. We then show that the magnitude of the impact of natural selection is positively correlated with Nc, based on body size and species range as proxies for census population size. These results demonstrate that natural selection removes more variation at linked neutral sites in species with large Nc than those with small Nc, and provides direct empirical evidence that natural selection constrains levels of neutral genetic diversity across many species. This implies that natural selection may provide an explanation for this longstanding paradox of population genetics.', u'The ability of the site-frequency spectrum (SFS) to reflect the particularities of gene genealogies exhibiting multiple mergers of ancestral lines as opposed to those obtained in the presence of population growth is our focus.  An  excess of singletons is a well-known characteristic of both population growth and multiple mergers.  \nOther aspects of the SFS, in particular the weight of the right tail, are, however,  affected in specific ways by the two model classes.  Using an approximate likelihood method and minimum-distance statistics, our estimates of statistical power indicate that exponential and algebraic\ngrowth can indeed be distinguished from multiple merger coalescents,  even for moderate sample size, if the number of segregating sites is high enough.  A normalized version of the SFS is also used  as a summary statistic in an approximate Bayesian computation (ABC) approach. The results give further positive  evidence as to the general eligibility of the SFS to distinguish between the different histories.', u'Background: Characterizations of the dynamics of hybrid zones in space and time can give insights about traits and processes important in population divergence and speciation. We characterized a hybrid zone between tanagers in the genus Ramphocelus (Aves, Thraupidae) located in southwestern Colombia. We tested whether this hybrid zone originated as a result of secondary contact or of primary differentiation, and described its dynamics across time using spatial analyses of molecular, morphological, and coloration data in combination with paleodistribution modeling. \nResults: Models of potential historical distributions based on climatic data and genetic signatures of demographic expansion suggested that the hybrid zone originated following secondary contact between populations that expanded their ranges out of isolated areas in the Quaternary. Concordant patterns of variation in phenotypic characters across the hybrid zone and its narrow extent are suggestive of a tension zone, maintained by a balance between dispersal and selection against hybrids. Estimates of phenotypic cline parameters obtained using specimens collected over nearly a century revealed that, in recent decades, the zone has moved to the east and to higher elevations, and has become narrower. Genetic variation was not clearly structured along the hybrid zone, but comparisons between historical and contemporary specimens suggested that temporal changes in its genetic makeup may also have occurred.\nConclusions: Our data suggest that the hybrid zone resulted from secondary contact between populations. The observed changes in the hybrid zone may be a result of sexual selection, asymmetric gene flow, or environmental change.', u'Measures of erythrocytes volume and surface are helpful in several physiological studies, both for zoologists and veterinarians. Whilst diameter and volume are assessed with ease from observations of blood smears and complete blood count, respectively, thickness and surface area, instead, are much more difficult to be obtained. The accurate description of the erythrocyte geometry is given by the equation of the oval of Cassini, but the formulas deriving from it are very complex, comprising elliptic integrals. In this article three solids are proposed as models approximating the erythrocyte: sphere, cylinder and a spheroid with concave caps. Volumes and Surface Areas obtained with these models are compared to those effectively measured.', u'Coexistence of multiple populations by frequency-dependent selection is common in nature, and it often arises even in well-mixed experiments with microbes. If ecology is to be incorporated into models of population genetics, then it is important to represent accurately the functional form of frequency-dependent interactions. However, measuring this functional form is problematic for traditional fitness assays, which assume a constant fitness difference between competitors over the course of an assay. Here, we present a theoretical framework for measuring the functional form of frequency-dependent fitness by accounting for changes in abundance and relative fitness during a competition assay. Using two examples of ecological coexistence that arose in a long-term evolution experiment with Escherichia coli, we illustrate accurate quantification of the functional form of frequency-dependent relative fitness. Using a Monod-type model of growth dynamics, we show that two ecotypes in a typical cross-feeding interaction\u2014such as when one bacterial population uses a byproduct generated by another\u2014yields relative fitness that is linear with relative frequency.', u'HISAT is a new, highly efficient system for alignment of sequences from RNA sequencing experiments that achieves dramatically faster performance than previous methods.  HISAT uses a new indexing scheme, hierarchical indexing, which is based on the Burrows-Wheeler transform and the Ferragina-Manzini (FM) index.  Hierarchical indexing employs two types of indexes for alignment: (1) a whole-genome FM index to anchor each alignment, and (2) numerous local FM indexes for very rapid extensions of these alignments.  HISAT?s hierarchical index for the human genome contains 48,000 local FM indexes, each representing a genomic region of ~64,000 bp.  The algorithm includes several customized alignment strategies specifically designed for mapping RNA-seq reads across multiple exons.  In tests on a variety of real and simulated data sets, we show that HISAT is the fastest system currently available, approximately 50 times faster than TopHat2 and 12 times faster than GSNAP, with equal or better accuracy than any other method.  Despite its very large number of indexes, HISAT requires only 4.3 Gigabytes of memory to align reads to the human genome.  HISAT supports genomes of any size, including those larger than 4 billion bases.  HISAT is available as free, open-source software from http://www.ccb.jhu.edu/software/hisat.', u'A concept of information designed to handle information conveyed by organizations is introduced. This concept of information may be used at all biological scales: from molecular and intracellular to multi-cellular organisms and human beings, and further on to collectivities, societies and culture. In this short account, two ground concepts necessary for developing the definition will also be introduced: whole-part graphs, a model for biological organization, and synexions, their immersion into space-time. This definition of information formalizes perception, observers and interpretation; allowing for considering information-exchange as a basic form of biological interaction. Some of its elements will be clarified by arguing and explaining why the immersion of whole-part graphs in (the physical) space-time is needed.', u"Some genes have ubiquitous expression patterns in an individual's cells, thus a paradox exists whereby mutations in such genes are only strongly associated with cancers of specific tissues. As these genes are ubiquitously expressed in the body's cells and thereby have functions in -potentially- all tissue types, then surely their resulting defects would manifest as cancers in all tissues? \nWe hypothesize that the different susceptibility to mutations could explain the \u2018tissue-specific\u2019 paradox for cancer.", u'We present a case for using global community innovation platforms (GCIPs), an approach to improve innovation and knowledge exchange in international scientific communities through a common and open online infrastructure. We highlight the value of GCIPs by focusing on recent efforts targeting the ecological sciences, where GCIPs are of high relevance given the urgent need for interdisciplinary, geographical, and cross-sector collaboration to cope with growing challenges to the environment as well as the scientific community itself. Amidst the emergence of new international institutions, organizations, and dedicated meetings, GCIPs provide a stable international infrastructure for rapid and long-term coordination that can be accessed by any individual. The accessibility can be particularly important for researchers early in their careers. Recent examples of early career GCIPs complement an array of existing options for early career scientists to improve skill sets, increase academic and social impact, and broaden career opportunities. In particular, we provide a number of examples of existing early career initiatives that incorporate elements from the GCIPs approach, and highlight an in-depth case study from the ecological sciences: the International Network of Next-Generation Ecologists (INNGE), initiated in 2010 with support from the International Association for Ecology and 18 member institutions from six continents.', u'Many processes during embryonic development involve transport and reaction of molecules, or transport and proliferation of cells, within growing tissues. Mathematical models of such processes usually take the form of a reaction?diffusion partial differential equation (PDE) on a growing domain. Previous analyses of such models have mainly involved solving the PDEs numerically. Here, we present a framework for calculating the exact solution of a linear reaction?diffusion PDE on a growing domain. We derive an exact solution for a general class of one-dimensional linear reaction?diffusion process on $0 \\le x \\le L(t)$, where $L(t)$ is the length of the growing domain. Comparing our exact solutions with numerical approximations confirms the accuracy of the method. Furthermore, our examples illustrate a delicate interplay between: (i) the rate at which the domain elongates, (ii) the diffusivity associated with the spreading density profile, (iii) the reaction rate, and (iv) the initial condition. Altering the balance between these four features leads to different outcomes in terms of whether an initial profile, located near $x=0$, eventually overcomes the domain growth and colonizes the entire length of the domain by reaching the boundary where $x = L(t)$.', u'The collection of detailed forage abundance data for studies of herbivore foraging behavior is important but often logistically demanding. Rapid sampling measures may help, but it is essential to assess the utility of such methods in specific habitats. We examined the relationship between visually estimated cover of grass species and their measured biomass in Nagarahole National Park. We found that grass cover was an excellent predictor of biomass within species, and additional height measurements did not improve biomass estimation. Species-level covers were more reliable than total covers and can be used for rapid assessment of proportional forage abundance.', u'Large-scale cancer genomics has made a huge impact onto cancer research. It has allowed the characterization of tumor types in an unprecedented depth. More recent studies target the joint analysis of multiple tumor types to gain insight into similarities and differences on a molecular level. Here we present an analysis of Uterine Carcinosarcoma. The histological similarities to sarcomas and carcinomas warrants an in-depth analysis to Uterine Endometrial Carcinoma as well as Sarcomas and we have used data from The Cancer Genome Atlas to understand transcriptome similarities and diffrences between these tumor types. We have performed a differential transcriptome analysis of Uterine Carinosarcoma to Uterine samples from GTEx to find genes with tumor specifc splicing or expression patterns, which may not only be of interest for a deeper mechanistic understanding of the development and progression of Uterine Carcinosarcoma, but may also be potential tumor markers. Similarities and differences to Sarcomas and Endometrial Carcinomas present new opportunities for the development of new and targeted drug therapies. Finally we have also studied genetic determinants of gene expression and splicing changes and identifed germline variants that explain expression and splicing differences between individuals. This analysis demonstrates the opportunities\nof integrative comparative analysis between multiple tumor types.', u'Transposon Sequencing (TnSeq) is a cutting-edge tool that allows quantitative, genome-wide genetic analysis of a given population in an experimental condition. TnSeq utilises next generation sequencing that is designed to perform optimally when all of the input material is of interest, therefore TnSeq is inefficient since only a small portion of nucleic acid fragments contain the transposon target site for primer annealing. We describe an innovative modification to standard transposon library preparation protocols that provides a significant improvement to the quality of sequencing data recovered.', u'Computational modeling constitutes a crucial step towards the functional understanding of complex cellular networks. In particular, logical modeling has proven suitable for the dynamical analysis of large signaling and transcriptional regulatory networks. In this context, signaling input components are generally meant to convey external stimuli, or environmental cues. In response to such external signals, cells acquire specific gene expression patterns modeled in terms of attractors (e.g. stable states). The capacity for cells to alter or reprogram their differentiated states upon changes in environmental conditions is referred to as cell plasticity.\nIn this article, we present a multivalued logical framework along with computational methods recently developed to efficiently analyze large models. We mainly focus on a symbolic model checking approach to investigate switches between attractors subsequent to changes of input conditions.\nAs a case study, we consider the cellular network regulating the differentiation of T-helper cells, which orchestrate many physiological and pathological immune responses. To account for novel cellular subtypes, we present an extended version of a published model of T-helper cell differentiation. We then use symbolic model checking to analyze reachability properties between T-helper subtypes upon changes of environmental cues. This allows for the construction of a synthetic view of T-helper cell plasticity in terms of a graph connecting subtypes with arcs labeled by input conditions. Finally, we explore novel strategies enabling specific T-helper cell polarizing or reprograming events.', u'Motivation: Statistical methods development for differential expression analysis of RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) requires software tools to assess accuracy and error rate control. Since true differential expression status is often unknown in experimental datasets, artificially-constructed datasets must be utilized, either by generating costly spike-in experiments or by simulating RNA-seq data.\nResults: Polyester is an R package designed to simulate RNA-seq data, beginning with an experimental design and ending with collections of RNA-seq reads. Its main advantage is the ability to simulate reads indicating isoform-level differential expression across biological replicates for a variety of experimental designs. Data generated by Polyester is a reasonable approximation to real RNA-seq data and standard differential expression workflows can recover differential expression set in the simulation by the user.\nAvailability and Implementation: Polyester is freely available from Bioconductor (http://bioconductor.org/).', u'A consensus genetic map for Pinus taeda (loblolly pine) was constructed by merging three previously published maps with a map from a pseudo-backcross between P. taeda and P. elliottii (slash pine). The consensus map positioned 4981 markers via genotyping of 1251 individuals from four pedigrees. It is the densest linkage map for a conifer to date. Average marker spacing was 0.48 centiMorgans and total map length was 2372 centiMorgans. Functional predictions for 4762 markers for expressed sequence tags were improved by alignment to full-length P. taeda transcripts. Alignments to the P. taeda genome mapped 4225 scaffold sequences onto linkage groups. The consensus genetic map was used to compare the extent of genome-wide linkage disequilibrium in an association population of distantly related P. taeda individuals (ADEPT2), a multiple-family pedigree used for genomic selection studies (CCLONES), and a full-sib quantitative trait locus mapping population (BC1). Weak linkage disequilibrium was observed in CCLONES and ADEPT2. Average squared correlations, R2, between genotypes at SNPs less than one centiMorgan apart was less than 0.05 in both populations and R2 did not decay substantially with genetic distance. By contrast, strong and extended linkage disequilibrium was observed among BC1 full-sibs where average R2 decayed from 0.8 to less than 0.1 over 53 centiMorgans. The consensus map and analysis of linkage disequilibrium establish a foundation for comparative association and quantitative trait locus mapping between genotype-phenotype discovery populations.', u'Here we describe how members of the chicken research community have come together as the \u2018Avian RNAseq Consortium\u2019 to provide chicken RNAseq data with a view to improving the annotation of the chicken genome. The data was used by Ensembl in their release 71 gene_build to help provide the most up-to-date annotation of Galgal4, which is still in current use. The data has also been used to predict many ncRNAs, particularly lncRNAs, and it continues to be used as a resource for annotation of other avian genomes along with continued gene discovery in the chicken. This article is submitted as part of the Third Report on Chicken Genes and Chromosomes which will be published in Cytogenetic and Genome Research', u'Since the identification of mouse dendritic cells (DC) in the early 70s, all attempts to consistently classify the identified functional DC subpopulations according to their surface molecule expression failed. In the absence of DC lineage markers, a great variety of non-congruent surface molecules were used instead. Recently advances in the understanding of the involvement of transcription factors in the differentiation of DC subpopulations, together with the identification of a lineage marker for cross-presenting DC, has now allowed to establish a consistent and unified DC classification in the mouse. We demonstrate in the present article that all conventional DC in the mouse can be universally subdivided into either XCR1+ cross-presenting  DC or SIRP\u03b1+ DC, irrespective of their activation status. This advancement will greatly facilitate future work on the biology of mouse DC. We discuss this new classification in view of current DC classification systems in the mouse and the human.', u'Hox homeodomain transcription factors are key regulators of animal development. They specify the identity of segments along the anterior-posterior body axis in metazoans by controlling the expression of diverse downstream targets, including transcription factors and signaling pathway components. The Drosophila melanogaster Hox factor Ultrabithorax (Ubx) directs the development of thoracic and abdominal segments and appendages, and loss of Ubx function can lead for example to the transformation of third thoracic segment appendages (e.g. halters) into second thoracic segment appendages (e.g. wings), resulting in a characteristic four-wing phenotype. Here we present a Drosophila melanogaster strain with a V5-epitope tagged Ubx allele, which we employed to obtain a high quality genome-wide map of Ubx binding sites using ChIP-seq. We confirm the sensitivity of the V5 ChIP-seq by recovering 7/8 of well-studied Ubx-dependent cis-regulatory regions. Moreover, we show that Ubx binding is predictive of enhancer activity as suggested by comparison with a genome-scale resource of in vivo tested enhancer candidates. We observed densely clustered Ubx binding sites at 12 extended genomic loci that included ANTP-C, BX-C, Polycomb complex genes, and other regulators and the clustered binding sites were frequently active enhancers. Furthermore, Ubx binding was detected at known Polycomb response elements (PREs) and was associated with significant enrichments of Pc and Pho ChIP signals in contrast to binding sites of other developmental TFs.  Together, our results show that Ubx targets developmental regulators via strongly clustered binding sites and allow us to hypothesize that regulation by Ubx might involve Polycomb group proteins to maintain specific regulatory states in cooperative or mutually exclusive fashion, an attractive model that combines two groups of proteins with prominent gene regulatory roles during animal development.', u'The first decade of Genome Wide Association Studies (GWAS) has uncovered a wealth of disease-associated variants. Two important derivations will be the translation of this information into a multiscale understanding of pathogenic variants, and leveraging existing data to increase the power of existing and future studies through prioritization. We explore edge prediction on heterogeneous networks\u2014graphs with multiple node and edge types\u2014for accomplishing both tasks. First we constructed a network with 18 node types\u2014genes, diseases, tissues, pathophysiologies, and 14 MSigDB (molecular signatures database)collections\u2014and 19 edge types from high-throughput publicly-available resources. From this network composed of 40,343 nodes and 1,608,168 edges, we extracted features that describe the topology between specific genes and diseases. Next, we trained a model from GWAS associations and predicted the probability of association between each protein-coding gene and each of 29 well-studied complex diseases. The model, which achieved 132-fold enrichment in precision at 10% recall, outperformed any individual domain, highlighting the benefit of integrative approaches. We identified pleiotropy, transcriptional signatures of perturbations, pathways, and protein interactions as fundamental mechanisms explaining pathogenesis. Our method successfully predicted the results (with AUROC = 0.79) from a withheld multiple sclerosis (MS) GWAS despite starting with only 13 previously associated genes. Finally, we combined our network predictions with statistical evidence of association to propose four novel MS genes, three of which (JAK2, REL, RUNX3) validated on the masked GWAS. Furthermore, our predictions provide biological support highlighting REL as the causal gene within its gene-rich locus. Users can browse all predictions online (http://het.io). Heterogeneous network edge prediction effectively prioritized genetic associations and provides a powerful new approach for data integration across multiple domains.', u'With the growth of high-throughput proteomic data, in particular time series gene expression data from various perturbations, a general question that has arisen is how to organize inherently heterogenous data into meaningful structures. Since biological systems such as breast cancer tumors respond differently to various treatments, little is known about exactly how these gene regulatory networks (GRNs) operate under different stimuli. For example, when we apply a drug-induced perturbation to a target protein, we often only know that the dynamic response of the specific protein may be affected. We do not know by how much, how long and even whether this perturbation affects other proteins or not. Challenges due to the lack of such knowledge not only occur in modeling the dynamics of a GRN but also cause bias or uncertainties in identifying parameters or inferring the GRN structure. This paper describes a new algorithm which enables us to estimate bias error due to the effect of perturbations and correctly identify the common graph structure among biased inferred graph structures. To do this, we retrieve common dynamics of the GRN subject to various perturbations. We refer to the task as "repairing" inspired by "image repairing" in computer vision. The method can automatically correctly repair the common graph structure across perturbed GRNs, even without precise information about the effect of the perturbations. We evaluate the method on synthetic data sets and demonstrate advantages over l1-regularized graph inference by advancing our understanding of how these networks respond across different targeted therapies. Also, we demonstrate an application to the DREAM data sets and discuss its implications to experiment design.', u'Genes in prokaryotic genomes are often arranged into clusters and co-transcribed into polycistronic RNAs. Isolated examples of polycistronic RNAs were also reported in some eukaryotes but their presence was generally considered rare. Here we developed a long-read sequencing strategy to identify polycistronic transcripts in several mushroom forming fungal species including Plicaturopsis crispa, Phanerochaete chrysosporium, Trametes versicolor and Gloeophyllum trabeum1. We found genome-wide prevalence of polycistronic transcription in these Agaricomycetes, and it involves up to 8% of the transcribed genes. Unlike polycistronic mRNAs in prokaryotes, these co-transcribed genes are also independently transcribed, and upstream transcription may interfere downstream transcription. Further comparative genomic analysis indicates that polycistronic transcription is likely a feature unique to these fungi. In addition, we also systematically demonstrated that short-read assembly is insufficient for mRNA isoform discovery, especially for isoform-rich loci. In summary, our study revealed, for the first time, the genome prevalence of polycistronic transcription in a subset of fungi. Futhermore, our long-read sequencing approach combined with bioinformatics pipeline is a generic powerful tool for precise characterization of complex transcriptomes.', u'Motivation: The multispecies coalescent model provides a formal framework for the assignment of individual organisms to species, where the species are modeled as the branches of the species tree. None of the available approaches so far have simultaneously co-estimated all the relevant parameters in the model, without restricting the parameter space by requiring a guide tree and/or prior assignment of individuals to clusters or species.  \nResults: We present DISSECT, which explores the full space of possible clusterings of individuals and species tree topologies in a Bayesian framework. It uses an approximation to avoid the need for reversible-jump MCMC, in the form of a prior that is a modification of the birth-death prior for the species tree. It incorporates a spike near zero in the density for node heights. The model has two extra parameters: one controls the degree of approximation, and the second controls the prior distribution on the numbers of species. It is implemented as part of BEAST and requires only a few changes from a standard *BEAST analysis. The method is evaluated on simulated data and demonstrated on an empirical data set. The method is shown to be insensitive to the degree of approximation, but quite sensitive to the second parameter, suggesting that large numbers of sequences are needed to draw firm conclusions.\nAvailability:http://code.google.com/p/beast-mcmc/, http://www.indriid.com/dissectinbeast.html\nContact:art@gjones.name, www.indriid.com\nSupplementary information: Supplementary material is available.', u'Understanding how microscopic molecules give rise to complex cognitive processes is a major goal of the biological sciences. The countless hypothetical molecule-cognition relationships necessitate discovery-based techniques to guide scientists toward the most productive lines of investigation. To this end, we present a novel discovery tool that uses spatial patterns of neural gene expression from the Allen Brain Institute (ABI) and large-scale functional neuroimaging meta-analyses from the Neurosynth framework to bridge neurogenetic and neuroimaging data. We quantified the spatial similarity between over 20,000 genes from the ABI and 48 psychological topics derived from lexical analysis of neuroimaging articles, producing a comprehensive set of gene/cognition mappings that we term the Neurosynth-gene atlas. We demonstrate the ability to independently replicate known gene/cognition associations (e.g., between dopamine and reward), and subsequently use it to identify a range of novel associations between individual molecules or genes and complex psychological phenomena such as reward, memory and emotion. Our results complement existing discovery-based methods such as GWAS, and provide a novel means of generating hypotheses about the neurogenetic substrates of complex cognitive functions.', u'The macroscale movement behaviour of a wide range of isolated migrating cells has been well characterised experimentally. Recently, attention has turned to understanding the behaviour of cells in crowded environments. In such scenarios it is possible for cells to interact mechanistically, inducing neighbouring cells to move in order to make room for their own movements or progeny. Although the behaviour of interacting cells has been modelled extensively through volume-exclusion processes, no models, thus far, have explicitly accounted for the ability of cells to actively displace each other. \n\nIn this work we consider both on and off-lattice volume-exclusion position-jump processes in which cells are explicitly allowed to induce movements in their near neighbours in order to create space for themselves (which we refer to as pushing). From these simple individual-level representations we derive continuum partial differential equations for the average occupancy of the domain. We find that, for limited amounts of pushing, the comparison between the averaged individual-level simulations and the population-level model is nearly as good as in the scenario without pushing but, that for larger and more complicated pushing events the assumptions used to derive the population-level model begin to break down. Interestingly, we find that, in the on-lattice case, the diffusion coefficient of the population-level model is increased by pushing, whereas, for the particular off-lattice model that we investigate, the diffusion coefficient is reduced. We conclude therefore, that it is important to consider carefully the appropriate individual-level model to use when representing complex cell-cell interactions such as pushing.', u'Genome-wide measurements of transcriptional activity in bacteria indicate that the transcription of successive genes is strongly correlated beyond the scale of operons. However, the underlying mechanisms are poorly characterized and a systematic method for identifying local groups of co-transcribed genes is lacking. Here, we identify supra-operonic segments of consecutive genes by comparing gene proximity in thousands of bacterial genomes. Structurally, the segments are contained within micro-domains delineated by known nucleoid-associated proteins, and they contain operons with specific relative orientations. Functionally, the operons within a same segment are highly co-transcribed, even in the absence of regulatory factors at their promoter regions. Hence, operons with no common regulatory factor can be co-regulated if they share a regulatory factor at the level of segments. To rationalize these findings, we put forward the hypothesis supported by RNA-seq data that facilitated co-transcription, the feedback of transcription into itself involving only DNA and RNA-polymerases, may represent both an evolutionary primitive and a functionally primary mode of gene regulation.', u'The matching-allele and gene-for-gene models are widely used in math- ematical approaches that study the dynamics of host-parasite interactions. Agrawal and Lively (Evolutionary Ecology Research 4:79-90, 2002) captured these two models in a single framework and numerically explored the associated time discrete dynamics of allele frequencies. Here, we present a detailed analytical investigation of this unifying framework in continuous time and provide a generalization. We extend the model to take into account changing population sizes, which result from the antagonistic nature of the interaction and follow the Lotka-Volterra equations. Under this extension, the population dynamics become most complex as the model moves away from pure matching-allele and becomes more gene-for-gene-like. While the population densities oscillate with a single oscillation frequency in the pure matching-allele model, a second oscillation frequency arises under gene-for-gene-like conditions. These observations hold for general interaction parameters and allow to infer generic patterns of the dynamics. Our results suggest that experimentally inferred dynamical patterns of host-parasite coevolution should typically be much more complex than the popular illustrations of Red Queen dynamics. A single parasite that infects more than one host can substantially alter the cyclic dynamics.', u'The genomic neighborhood of a gene influences its activity, a behavior that is attributable in part to domain-scale regulation, in which regions of hundreds or thousands of kilobases known as domains are regulated as a unit.  Previous studies using genomics assays such as chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP)-seq and chromatin conformation capture (3C)-based assays have identified many types of regulatory domains.  However, due to the difficulty of integrating genomics data sets, the relationships among these domain types are poorly understood.  Semi-automated genome annotation (SAGA) algorithms facilitate human interpretation of heterogeneous collections of genomics data by simultaneously partitioning the human genome and assigning labels to the resulting genomic segments.  However, existing SAGA methods can incorporate only data sets that can be expressed as a one-dimensional vector over the genome and therefore cannot integrate inherently pairwise chromatin conformation data.  We developed a new computational method, called graph-based regularization (GBR), for expressing a pairwise prior that encourages certain pairs of genomic loci to receive the same label in a genome annotation.  We used GBR to exploit chromatin conformation information during genome annotation by encouraging positions that are close in 3D to occupy the same type of domain.  Using this approach, we produced a comprehensive model of chromatin domains in eight human cell types, thereby revealing the relationships among known domain types.  Through this model, we identified clusters of tightly-regulated genes expressed in only a small number of cell types, which we term "specific expression domains." We additionally found that a subset of domain boundaries marked by promoters and CTCF motifs are consistent between cell types even when domain activity changes.  Finally, we showed that GBR can be used for the seemingly unrelated task of transferring information from well-studied cell types to less well characterized cell types during genome annotation, making it possible to produce high-quality annotations of the hundreds of cell types with limited available data.', u'Anopheles gambiae, the primary vector of human malaria in sub-Saharan Africa, exists as a series of ecologically specialized subgroups that are phylogenetically nested within the Anopheles gambiae species complex.  These species and subgroups exhibit varying degrees of reproductive isolation, sometimes recognized as distinct subspecies. We have sequenced 32 complete genomes from field-captured individuals of Anopheles gambiae, Anopheles gambiae M form (recently named A. coluzzii), sister species A. arabiensis, and the recently discovered ?GOUNDRY? subgroup of A. gambiae that is highly susceptible to Plasmodium. Amidst a backdrop of strong reproductive isolation and adaptive differentiation, we find evidence for introgression of autosomal chromosomal regions among species and subgroups, some of which have facilitated adaptation. The X chromosome, however, is strongly differentiated among all species and subgroups, pointing to a disproportionately large effect of X chromosome genes in driving speciation among anophelines.  Strikingly, we find that autosomal introgression has occurred from contemporary hybridization among A. gambiae and A. arabiensis despite strong divergence (~5? higher than autosomal divergence) and isolation on the X chromosome.  We find a large region of the X chromosome that has swept to fixation in the GOUNDRY subgroup within the last 100 years, which may be an inversion that serves as a partial barrier to contemporary gene flow.  We show that speciation with gene flow results in genomic mosaicism of divergence and introgression.  Such a reticulate gene pool connecting vector species and subgroups across the speciation continuum has important implications for malaria control efforts.', u'We used experimental evolution to test the ?melanism-desiccation? hypothesis, which proposes that dark cuticle in several Drosophila species is an adaptation for increased desiccation tolerance. We selected for dark and light body pigmentation in replicated populations of D. melanogaster and assayed traits related to water balance. We also scored pigmentation and desiccation tolerance in populations selected for desiccation survival. Populations in both selection regimes showed large differences in the traits directly under selection. However, after over 40 generations of pigmentation selection, dark-selected populations were not more desiccation-tolerant than light-selected and control populations, nor did we find significant changes in carbohydrate amounts that could affect desiccation resistance. Body pigmentation of desiccation-selected populations did not differ from control populations after over 140 generations of selection. Our results do not support an important role for melanization in Drosophila water balance.', u'Motivation: Phylogenetic analysis like Bayesian MCMC or bootstrapping result in a collection of trees. Trees are discrete objects and it is generally difficult to get a mental grip on a distributions over trees. Visualisation tools like DensiTree can give good intuition on tree distributions. It works by drawing all trees in the set transparently thus highlighting areas where the tree in the set agrees. In this way, both uncertainty in clade heights and uncertainty in topology can be visualised. In our experience, a vanilla DensiTree can turn out to be misleading in that it shows too much uncertainty due to wrongly ordering taxa or due to unlucky placement of internal nodes.\n\nResults: DensiTree is extended to allow visualisation of meta-data associated with branches such as population size and evolutionary rates. Furthermore, geographic locations of taxa can be shown on a map, making it easy to visually check there is some geographic pattern in a phylogeny. Taxa orderings have a large impact on the layout of the tree set, and advances have been made in finding better orderings resulting in significantly more informative visualisations. We also explored various methods for positioning internal nodes, which can improve the quality of the image. Together, these advances make it easier to comprehend distributions over trees.\n\nAvailability: DensiTree is freely available from http://compevol. auckland.ac.nz/software/.', u'Background: Gene expression variation is a phenotypic trait of particular interest as it represents the initial link between genotype and other phenotypes. Analyzing how such variation apportions among and within groups allows for the evaluation of how genetic and environmental factors influence such traits. It also provides opportunities to identify genes and pathways that may have been influenced by non-neutral processes. Here we use a population genetics framework and next generation sequencing to evaluate how gene expression variation is apportioned among four human groups in a natural biological tissue, the placenta.\nResults: We estimate that on average, 33.2%, 58.9% and 7.8% of the placental transcriptome is explained by variation within individuals, among individuals and among human groups, respectively.  Additionally, when technical and biological traits are included in models of gene expression they account for roughly 2% of total gene expression variation. Notably, the variation that is significantly different among groups is enriched in biological pathways associated with immune response, cell signaling and metabolism. Many biological traits demonstrated correlated changes in expression in numerous pathways of potential interest to clinicians and evolutionary biologists. Finally, we estimate that the majority of the human placental transcriptome (65% of expressed genes) exhibits expression profiles consistent with neutrality; the remainder are consistent with stabilizing selection (26%), directional selection (4.9%), or diversifying selection (4.8%). \nConclusion: We apportion placental gene expression variation into individual, population and biological trait factors and identify how each influence the transcriptome. Additionally, we advance methods to associate expression profiles with different forms of selection.', u'To assess the utility of online patient self-report outcomes in a rare disease, we attempted to observe the effects of corticosteroids in delaying age at fulltime wheelchair use in Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) using data from 1,057 males from DuchenneConnect, an online registry.  Data collected were compared to prior natural history data in regard to age at diagnosis, mutation spectrum, and age at loss of ambulation. Because registrants reported differences in steroid and other medication usage, as well as age and ambulation status, we could explore these data for correlations with age at loss of ambulation. Using multivariate analysis, current steroid usage was the most significant and largest independent predictor of improved wheelchair-free survival. Thus, these online self-report data were sufficient to retrospectively observe that current steroid use by patients with DMD is associated with a delay in loss of ambulation. Comparing commonly used steroid drugs, deflazacort prolonged ambulation longer than prednisone (median 14 years and 13 years, respectively). Further, use of Vitamin D and Coenzyme Q10, insurance status, and age at diagnosis after 4 years were also significant, but smaller, independent predictors of longer wheelchair-free survival. Nine other common supplements were also individually tested but had lower study power. This study demonstrates the utility of DuchenneConnect data to observe therapeutic differences, and highlights needs for improvement in quality and quantity of patient-report data, which may allow exploration of drug/therapeutic practice combinations impractical to study in clinical trial settings.  Further, with the low barrier to participation, we anticipate substantial growth in the dataset in the coming years.', u'Motivation: Reproducing the results from a scientific paper can be challenging due to the absence of data and the computational tools required for their analysis. In addition, details relating to the proce- dures used to obtain the published results can be difficult to discern due to the use of natural language when reporting how experiments have been performed. The Investigation/Study/Assay (ISA), Nanop- ublications (NP) and Research Objects (RO) models are conceptual data modelling frameworks that can structure such information from scientific papers. Computational workflow platforms can also be used to reproduce analyses of data in a principled manner. We assessed the extent by which ISA, NP and RO models, together with the Galaxy workflow system, can capture the experimental processes and reproduce the findings of a previously published paper reporting on the development of SOAPdenovo2, a de novo genome assembler.\nResults: Executable workflows were developed using Galaxy which reproduced results that were con- sistent with the published findings. A structured representation of the information in the SOAPdenovo2 paper was produced by combining the use of ISA, NP and RO models. By structuring the information in the published paper using these data and scientific workflow modelling frameworks, it was possible to explicitly declare elements of experimental design, variables and findings. The models served as guides in the curation of scientific information and this led to the identification of inconsistencies in the original published paper, thereby allowing its authors to publish corrections in the form of an errata.\nAvailability: SOAPdenovo2 scripts, data and results are available through the GigaScience Database: http://dx.doi.org/10.5524/100044; the workflows are available from GigaGalaxy: http://galaxy. cbiit.cuhk.edu.hk; and the representations using the ISA, NP and RO models are available through the SOAPdenovo2 case study website http://isa-tools.github.io/soapdenovo2/. Contact: philippe.rocca- serra@oerc.ox.ac.uk and susanna.assunta-sansone@oerc.ox.ac.uk', u'Expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) studies have discovered thousands of genetic variants that regulate gene expression, enabling a better understanding of the functional role of non-coding sequences. However, eQTL studies are costly, requiring large sample sizes and genome-wide genotyping of each sample. In contrast, analysis of allele specific expression (ASE) is becoming a popular approach to detect the effect of genetic variation on gene expression, even within a single individual. This is typically achieved by counting the number of RNA-seq reads matching each allele at heterozygous sites and testing the null hypothesis of a 1:1 allelic ratio. In principle, when genotype information is not readily available it could be inferred from the RNA-seq reads directly. However, there are currently no existing methods that jointly infer genotypes and conduct ASE inference, while considering uncertainty in the genotype calls.\nWe present QuASAR, Quantitative Allele Specific Analysis of Reads, a novel statistical learning method for jointly detecting heterozygous genotypes and inferring ASE. The proposed ASE inference step takes into consideration the uncertainty in the genotype calls while including parameters that model base-call errors in sequencing and allelic over-dispersion. We validated our method with experimental data for which high quality genotypes are available. Results for an additional dataset with multiple replicates at different sequencing depths demonstrate that QuASAR is a powerful tool for ASE analysis when genotypes are not available.', u'Ongoing large experimental characterization is crucial to determine all regulatory sequences, yet we do not know which genetic variants in those regions are non-silent. Here, we present a novel analysis integrating sequence and DNase I footprinting data for 653 samples to predict the impact of a sequence change on transcription factor binding for a panel of 1,372 motifs. Most genetic variants in footprints (5,810,227) do not show evidence of allele-specific binding (ASB). In contrast, functional genetic variants predicted by our computational models are highly enriched for ASB (3,217 SNPs at 20% FDR). Comparing silent to functional non-coding genetic variants, the latter are 1.22-fold enriched for GWAS traits, have lower allele frequencies, and affect footprints more distal to promoters or active in fewer tissues. Finally, integration of the annotations into 18 GWAS meta-studies improves identification of likely causal SNPs and transcription factors relevant for complex traits.', u'Social evolution theory posits the existence of genes expressed in one individual that affect the traits and fitness of social partners. The archetypal example of reproductive altruism, honey bee reproductive caste, involves strict social regulation of larval caste fate by care-giving nurses. However, the contribution of nurse-expressed genes, which are prime socially-acting candidate genes, to the caste developmental program and to caste evolution remains mostly unknown. We experimentally induced new queen production by removing the current colony queen, and we used RNA sequencing to study the gene expression profiles of both developing larvae and their care-giving nurses before and after queen removal. By comparing the gene expression profiles between both queen-destined larvae and their nurses to worker-destined larvae and their nurses in queen-present and queen-absent conditions, we identified larval and nurse genes associated with larval caste development and with queen presence. Of 950 differentially-expressed genes associated with larval caste development, 82% were expressed in larvae and 18% were expressed in nurses. Behavioral and physiological evidence suggests that nurses may specialize in the short term feeding queen- versus worker-destined larvae. Estimated selection coefficients indicated that both nurse and larval genes associated with caste are rapidly evolving, especially those genes associated with worker development. Of the 1863 differentially-expressed genes associated with queen presence, 90% were expressed in nurses. Altogether, our results suggest that socially-acting genes play important roles in both the expression and evolution of socially-influenced traits like caste.', u'Haemophilus parasuis is the causative agent of Gl\xe4sser\u2019s disease and a commensal coloniser of the porcine upper respiratory tract. Multiple complex factors, including the early weaning of piglets and the management of high health status farms, make it a re-emerging agent, responsible for a recent increase in the prevalence and severity of disease in pigs in China. However, little genetic information is known about Chinese epidemic isolates. In this study, a phylogenetic method for genotyping the H. parasuis population with representative Chinese epidemic isolates and available reference strains is presented. Phylogenetic analysis confirmed that there are at least two different genotypes in H. parasuis population and a putative Chinese lineage with virulence results in the previous epidemics.', u'Comprehensive interpretation of human genome sequencing data is a challenging bioinformatic problem that typically requires weeks of analysis, with extensive hands-on expert involvement. This informatics bottleneck inflates genome sequencing costs, poses a computational burden for large-scale projects, and impedes the adoption of time-critical clinical applications such as personalized cancer profiling and newborn disease diagnosis, where the actionable timeframe can measure in hours or days. We developed SpeedSeq, an open-source genome analysis platform that vastly reduces computing time. SpeedSeq accomplishes read alignment, duplicate removal, variant detection and functional annotation of a 50X human genome in <24 hours, even using one low-cost server. SpeedSeq offers competitive or superior performance to current methods for detecting germline and somatic single nucleotide variants (SNVs), indels, and structural variants (SVs) and includes novel functionality for SV genotyping, SV annotation, fusion gene detection, and rapid identification of actionable mutations. SpeedSeq will help bring timely genome analysis into the clinical realm.', u'Biological and biomedical research relies on comprehensive understanding of protein-coding transcripts. However, the total number of human proteins is still unknown due to the prevalence of alternative splicing and is much larger than the number of human genes.\nIn this paper, we detected 31,566 novel transcripts with coding potential by filtering our ab initio predictions with 50 RNA-seq datasets from diverse tissues/cell lines. PCR followed by MiSeq sequencing showed that at least 84.1% of these predicted novel splice sites could be validated. In contrast to known transcripts, the expression of these novel transcripts were highly tissue-specific. Based on these novel transcripts, at least 36 novel proteins were detected from shotgun proteomics data of 41 breast samples. We also showed L1 retrotransposons have a more significant impact on the origin of new transcripts/genes than previously thought. Furthermore, we found that alternative splicing is extraordinarily widespread for genes involved in specific biological functions like protein binding, nucleoside binding, neuron projection, membrane organization and cell adhesion. In the end, the total number of human transcripts with protein-coding potential was estimated to be at least 204,950.', u'Quantitative geneticists long ago recognized the value of studying evolution in a multivariate framework (Pearson, 1903). Due to linkage, pleiotropy, coordinated selection and mutational covariance, the evolutionary response in any phenotypic trait can only be properly understood in the context of other traits (Lande, 1979; Lynch and Walsh, 1998). This is of course also well-appreciated by comparative biologists. However, unlike in quantitative genetics, most of the statistical and conceptual tools for analyzing phylogenetic comparative data (recently reviewed in Pennell and Harmon, 2013) are designed for analyzing a single trait (but see, for example Revell and Harmon, 2008; Revell and Harrison, 2008; Hohenlohe and Arnold, 2008; Revell and Collar, 2009; Schmitz and Motani, 2011; Adams, 2014b). Indeed, even classical approaches for testing for correlated evolution between two traits (e.g., Felsenstein, 1985; Grafen, 1989; Harvey and Pagel, 1991) are not actually multivariate as each trait is assumed to have evolved under a process that is independent of the state of the other (Hansen and\nOrzack, 2005; Hansen and Bartoszek, 2012). As a result of these limitations, researchers with multivariate datasets are often faced with a choice: analyze each trait as if they were independent or else decompose the dataset into statistically independent set of traits, such that each set can be analyzed with the univariate methods.', u'The cerebral cortex exhibits spontaneous and sensory evoked patterns of activity during early development that is vital for the formation and refinement of neural circuits. Identifying the source and flow of this activity locally and globally is critical for understanding principles guiding self-organization in the developing brain. Here we use whole brain transcranial optical imaging at high spatial and temporal resolution to demonstrate that dynamical patterns of neuronal activity in developing mouse neocortex consist of spatially discrete domains that are coordinated in an age, areal, and behavior- dependent fashion. Ongoing cortical activity displays mirror-symmetric activation patterns across the cerebral hemispheres and stereotyped network architectures that are shaped during development, with parietal-sensorimotor subnetworks functionally connected to occipital regions through frontal-medial cortical areas. This study provides the first broad description of population activity in the developing neocortex at a scope and scale that bridges the microscopic and macroscopic spatiotemporal resolutions provided by traditional neurophysiological and functional neuroimaging techniques. Mesoscale maps of cortical population dynamics within animal models will be crucial for future efforts to understand and treat neurodevelopmental disorders.', u'Missing data present an important challenge when dealing with high dimensional data arranged in the form of an array. In this paper, we propose methods for estimation of the parameters of array variate normal probability model from partially observed multi-way data.  The methods developed here are useful for missing data imputation,  estimation of mean and covariance parameters for multi-way data. A multi-way semi-parametric mixed effects model that allows separation of multi-way covariance effects is also defined and an efficient algorithm for estimation based on the spectral decompositions of the covariance parameters is recommended. We demonstrate our methods with simulations and with real life data involving the estimation of genotype and environment interaction effects on possibly correlated traits.', u'Neuronal circuits can learn and replay firing patterns evoked by sequences of sensory stimuli. After training, a brief cue can trigger a spatiotemporal pattern of neural activity similar to that evoked by a learned stimulus sequence. Network models show that such sequence learning can occur through the shaping of feedforward excitatory connectivity via long term plasticity. Previous models describe how event order can be learned, but they typically do not explain how precise timing can be recalled. We propose a mechanism for learning both the order and precise timing of event sequences. In our recurrent network model, long term plasticity leads to the learning of the sequence, while short term facilitation enables temporally precise replay of events. Learned synaptic weights between populations determine the time necessary for one population to activate another. Long term plasticity adjusts these weights so that the trained event times are matched during playback. While we chose short term facilitation as a time-tracking process, we also demonstrate that other mechanisms, such as spike rate adaptation, can fulfill this role. We also analyze the impact of trial-to-trial variability, showing how observational errors as well as neuronal noise result in variability in learned event times. The dynamics of the playback process determine how stochasticity is inherited in learned sequence timings. Future experiments that characterize such variability can therefore shed light on the neural mechanisms of sequence learning.', u'Normalization and preprocessing are essential steps for the analysis of high-throughput data including next-generation sequencing and microarrays. Multi-sample global normalization methods, such as quantile normalization, have been successfully used to remove technical variation from noisy data. These methods rely on the assumption that observed global changes across samples are due to unwanted technical variability. Transforming the data to remove these differences has the potential to remove interesting biologically driven global variation and therefore may not be appropriate depending on the type and source of variation. Currently, it is up to the subject matter experts, for example biologists, to determine if the stated assumptions are appropriate or not. Here, we propose a data-driven method to test for the assumptions of global normalization methods. We demonstrate the utility of our method (quantro), by applying it to multiple gene expression and DNA methylation and show examples of when global normalization methods are not appropriate. We also perform a Monte Carlo simulation study to illustrate how our method generally outperforms the current approach. An R-package implementing our method is available on Bioconductor (http://www.bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/html/quantro.html).', u'The rapid advance of DNA sequencing technologies has yielded databases of thousands of genomes.  To search and index these databases effectively, it is important that we take advantage of the similarity between those genomes.  Several authors have recently suggested searching or indexing only one reference genome and the parts of the other genomes where they differ.  In this paper we survey the twenty-year history of this idea and discuss its relation to kernelization in parameterized complexity.', u'Sexual size dimorphism (SSD) is widespread among animals, and is a common indication of differential selection among males and females. Sexual selection theory predicts that SSD should increase as one sex competes more fiercely for access to mates, but it is unclear what effect spatial variation in ecology may have on this behavioral process. Here, we examine SSD across the class Aves in a spatial and phylogenetic framework, and test several a priori hypotheses regarding its relationship with climate. We mapped the global distribution of SSD from published descriptions of body size, distribution, and phylogenetic relationships across 2581 species of birds. We examined correlations between SSD and nine predictor variables representing a priori models of physical geography, climate, and climate variability. Our results show guarded support for a global latitudinal trend in SSD based on a weak prevalence of species with low or female-biased SSD in the North, but substantial spatial heterogeneity. While several stronger relationships were observed between SSD and climate predictors within zoogeographical regions, no global relationship emerged that was consistent across multiple methods of analysis. While we found support for a global relationship between climate and SSD, this support lacked consistency and explanatory power. Furthermore the strong phylogenetic signal and conspicuous lack of support from phylogenetically corrected analyses suggests that any such relationship in birds is likely due to the idiosyncratic histories of different lineages. In this manner, our results broadly agree with studies in other groups, leading us to conclude that the relationship between climate and SSD is at best complex. This suggests that SSD is linked to behavioral dynamics that may at a global scale be largely independent of environmental conditions.', u'The main idea of this note is to show the most basic and purely mechanistic model of population growth, which has been used by us to create models of interspecific competition for verification of the competitive exclusion principle (1, 2). Our logical deterministic individual-based cellular automata model demonstrates a spatio-temporal mechanism of the S-shaped population growth.', u'Maximizing growth and survival in the face of a complex, time-varying environment is a common problem for single-celled organisms in the wild. When offered two different sugars as carbon sources, microorganisms first consume the preferred sugar, then undergo a transient growth delay, the \u201cdiauxic lag\u201d, while inducing genes to metabolize the less preferred sugar. This delay is commonly assumed to be an inevitable consequence of selection to maximize use of the preferred sugar. Contrary to this view, we found that many natural isolates of Saccharomyces cerevisiae display short or non-existent diauxic lags when grown in mixtures of glucose (preferred) and galactose. These strains induce galactose-utilization (GAL) genes hours before glucose exhaustion, thereby \u201cpreparing\u201d for the transition from glucose to galactose metabolism. The extent of preparation varies across strains, and seems to be determined by the steady-state response of GAL genes to mixtures of glucose and galactose rather than by induction kinetics. Although early GAL induction gives strains a competitive advantage once glucose runs out, it comes at a cost while glucose is still present. Costs and benefits correlate with the degree of preparation: strains with higher expression of GAL genes prior to glucose exhaustion experience a larger upfront growth cost but also a shorter diauxic lag. Our results show that classical diauxic growth is only one extreme on a continuum of growth strategies constrained by a cost-benefit tradeoff. This type of continuum is likely to be common in nature, as similar tradeoffs can arise whenever cells evolve to use mixtures of nutrients.', u'Gene expression is an inherently stochastic process that depends on the structure of the biochemical regulatory network in which the gene is embedded. Here we study the interplay between stochastic gene switching and the widespread negative feedback regulatory loop. Using a simple hybrid model, we find that stochasticity in gene switching by itself can induce pulses in the system. Furthermore, we find that our simple model is able to reproduce both exponential and peaked distributions of gene active and inactive times similar to those that have been observed experimentally. Our hybrid modelling approach also allows us to link these patterns to the dynamics of the system for each gene state.', u'Polygenic prediction using genome-wide SNPs can provide high prediction accuracy for complex traits. Here, we investigate the question of how to account for genetic ancestry when conducting polygenic prediction. We show that the accuracy of polygenic prediction in structured populations may be partly due to genetic ancestry. However, we hypothesized that explicitly modeling ancestry could improve polygenic prediction accuracy. We analyzed three GWAS of hair color, tanning ability and basal cell carcinoma (BCC) in European Americans (sample size from 7,440 to 9,822) and considered two widely used polygenic prediction approaches: polygenic risk scores (PRS) and Best Linear Unbiased Prediction (BLUP). We compared polygenic prediction without correction for ancestry to polygenic prediction with ancestry as a separate component in the model. In 10-fold cross-validation using the PRS approach, the R2 for hair color increased by 66% (0.0456 to 0.0755; p<10-16), the R2 for tanning ability increased by 123% (0.0154 to 0.0344; p<10-16) and the liability-scale R2 for BCC increased by 68% (0.0138 to 0.0232; p<10-16) when explicitly modeling ancestry, which prevents ancestry effects from entering into each SNP effect and being over-weighted. Surprisingly, explicitly modeling ancestry produces a similar improvement when using the BLUP approach, which fits all SNPs simultaneously in a single variance component and causes ancestry to be under-weighted. We validate our findings via simulations, which show that the differences in prediction accuracy will increase in magnitude as sample sizes increase. In summary, our results show that explicitly modeling ancestry can be important in both PRS and BLUP prediction.', u'The anomaly zone presents a major challenge to the accurate resolution of many parts of the Tree of Life. The anomaly zone is defined by the presence of a gene tree topology that is more probable than the true species tree. This discrepancy can result from consecutive rapid speciation events in the species tree. Similar to the problem of long-branch attraction, including more data (loci) will only reinforce the support for the incorrect species tree. Empirical phylogenetic studies often implement coalescent based species tree methods to avoid the anomaly zone, but to this point these studies have not had a method for providing any direct evidence that the species tree is actually in the anomaly zone. In this study, we use 16 species of lizards in the family Scincidae to investigate whether nodes that are difficult to resolve are located within the anomaly zone. We analyze new phylogenomic data (429 loci), using both concatenation and coalescent based species tree estimation, to locate conflicting topological signal. We then use the unifying principle of the anomaly zone, together with estimates of ancestral population sizes and species persistence times, to determine whether the observed phylogenetic conflict is a result of the anomaly zone. We identify at least three regions of the Scindidae phylogeny that provide demographic signatures consistent with the anomaly zone, and this new information helps reconcile the phylogenetic conflict in previously published studies on these lizards. The anomaly zone presents a real problem in phylogenetics, and our new framework for identifying anomalous relationships will help empiricists leverage their resources appropriately for overcoming this challenge.', u'In vitro cell biology assays play a crucial role in informing our understanding of the migratory, proliferative and invasive properties of many cell types in different biological contexts. While mono-culture assays involve the study of a population of cells composed of a single cell type, co-culture assays study a population of cells composed of multiple cell types (or subpopulations of cells). Such co-culture assays can provide more realistic insights into many biological processes including tissue repair, tissue regeneration and malignant spreading.  Typically, system parameters, such as motility and proliferation rates, are estimated by calibrating a mathematical or computational model to the observed experimental data. However, parameter estimates can be highly sensitive to the choice of model and modelling framework.  This observation motivates us to consider the fundamental question of how we can best choose a model to facilitate accurate parameter estimation for a particular assay. In this work we describe three mathematical models of mono-culture and co-culture assays that include different levels of spatial detail. We study various spatial summary statistics to explore if they can be used to distinguish between the suitability of each model over a range of parameter space. Our results for mono-culture experiments are promising, in that we suggest two spatial statistics that can be used to direct model choice.  However, co-culture experiments are far more challenging: we show that these same spatial statistics which provide useful insight into mono-culture systems are insufficient for co-culture systems. Therefore, we conclude that great care ought to be exercised when estimating the parameters of co-culture assays.', u'The nasopharynx (NP) is a reservoir for microbes associated with acute respiratory illnesses (ARI). The development of asthma is initiated during infancy, driven by airway inflammation associated with infections. Here, we report viral and bacterial community profiling of NP aspirates across a birth cohort, capturing all lower respiratory illnesses during their first year. Most infants were initially colonized with Staphylococcus or Corynebacterium before stable colonization with Alloiococcus or Moraxella, with transient incursions of Streptococcus, Moraxella or Haemophilus marking virus-associated ARIs. Our data identify the NP microbiome as a determinant for infection spread to the lower airways, severity of accompanying inflammatory symptoms, and risk for future asthma development. Early asymptomatic colonization with Streptococcus was a strong asthma predictor, and antibiotic usage disrupted asymptomatic colonization patterns.', u"The central neuromodulator serotonin (5-HT) has been implicated in a wide range of behaviors and affective disorders, but the principles underlying its function remain elusive. One influential line of research has implicated 5-HT in response inhibition and impulse control. Another has suggested a role in affective processing. However, whether and how these effects relate to each other is still unclear. Here, we report that optogenetic activation of 5-HT neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) produces a dose-dependent increase in mice's ability to withhold premature responding in a task that requires them to wait several seconds for a randomly delayed tone. The 5-HT effect had a rapid onset and was maintained throughout the stimulation period. In addition, movement speed was slowed but stimulation did not affect reaction time or time spent at the reward port.  Using similar stimulation protocols in place preference and value-based choice tests, we found no evidence of either appetitive or aversive effects of DRN 5-HT neuron activation. These results provide strong evidence that the efficacy of DRN 5-HT neurons in promoting waiting for delayed rewards is independent of appetitive or aversive effects and support the importance of 5-HT in behavioral persistence and impulse control.", u'Organisms use various strategies to cope with fluctuating environmental conditions. In diversified bet-hedging, a single genotype exhibits phenotypic heterogeneity with the expectation that some individuals will survive transient selective pressures. To date, empirical evidence for bet-hedging is scarce. Here, we observe that individual Drosophila melanogaster flies exhibit striking variation in light- and temperature-preference behaviors. With a modeling approach that combines real world weather and climate data to simulate temperature preference-dependent survival and reproduction, we find that a bet-hedging strategy may underlie the observed inter-individual behavioral diversity. Specifically, bet-hedging outcompetes strategies in which individual thermal preferences are heritable. Animals employing bet-hedging refrain from adapting to the coolness of spring with increased warm-seeking that inevitably becomes counterproductive in the hot summer. This strategy is particularly valuable when mean seasonal temperatures are typical, or when there is considerable fluctuation in temperature within the season. The model predicts, and we experimentally verify, that the behaviors of individual flies are not heritable. Finally, we model the effects of historical weather data, climate change, and geographic seasonal variation on the optimal strategies underlying behavioral variation between individuals, characterizing the regimes in which bet-hedging is advantageous.', u'Several functional connectivity approaches require the definition of a set of ROIs that act as network nodes. Different methods have been developed to define these nodes and to derive their functional and effective connections, most of which are rather complex. Here we aim to propose a relatively simple \u201cone-step\u201d border detection and ROI estimation procedure employing the fuzzy c-mean clustering algorithm.\nTo test this procedure and to explore insular connectivity beyond the two/three-region model currently proposed in the literature, we parcellated the insular cortex of a group of twenty healthy right-handed volunteers (10 females) scanned in a resting state condition.\nEmploying a high-dimensional functional connectivity-based clustering process, we confirmed the two patterns of connectivity previously described. This method revealed a complex pattern of functional connectivity where the two previously detected insular clusters are subdivided into several other networks, some of which not commonly associated with the insular cortex, such as the default mode network and parts of the dorsal attentional network. Finally, the detection of nodes was reliable', u'Motivation: Understanding global gene regulation depends critically on accurate annotation of regulatory elements that are functional in a given cell type. CENTIPEDE, a powerful, probabilistic framework for identifying transcription factor binding sites from tissue-specific DNase I cleavage patterns and genomic sequence content, leverages the hypersensitivity of factor-bound chromatin and the information in the DNase I spatial cleavage profile characteristic of each DNA binding protein to accurately infer functional factor binding sites. However, the model for the spatial profile in this framework underestimates the substantial variation in the DNase I cleavage profiles across factor-bound genomic locations and across replicate measurements of chromatin accessibility.\n\nResults: In this work, we adapt a multi-scale modeling framework for inhomogeneous Poisson processes to better model the underlying variation in DNase I cleavage patterns across genomic locations bound by a transcription factor. In addition to modeling variation, we also model spatial structure in the heterogeneity in DNase I cleavage patterns for each factor. Using DNase-seq measurements assayed in a lymphoblastoid cell line, we demonstrate the improved performance of this model for several transcription factors by comparing against the Chip-Seq peaks for those factors. Finally, we propose an extension to this framework that allows for a more flexible background model and evaluate the additional gain in accuracy achieved when the background model parameters are estimated using DNase-seq data from naked DNA. The proposed model can also be applied to paired-end ATAC-seq and DNase-seq data in a straightforward manner.\n\nAvailability: msCentipede, a Python implementation of an algorithm to infer transcription factor binding using this model, is made available at https://github.com/rajanil/msCentipede', u'A consequence of the \u2018gold rush\u2019 like hunch for human-like handedness in non-human primates has been that researchers have been continually analyzing observations at the level of the population, ignoring the analysis at the level of an individual and, consequently, have potentially missed revelations on the forms and functions of manual asymmetries. Recently, consecutive studies on manual asymmetries in bonnet macaques, Macaca radiata [Mangalam et al., 2014a; Mangalam et al., 2014b] revealed both the functional and the adaptive significance of manual asymmetries respectively, and pointed towards the division of labor as being the general principle underlying the observed hand-usage patterns. We review the studies on manual asymmetries in capuchin monkeys, Cebus spp. and argue that the observed hand-usage patterns might reflect specialization of the two hands for accomplishing tasks that require different dexterity types (i.e., maneuvering in three dimensional space or physical strength). To this end, we do a step-by-step analysis of the various tasks used in the studies on manual asymmetries in capuchin monkeys, wherein we: (a) analyze the different manual tasks that have been used to study manual asymmetries in non-human primates on the basis of the attributes such as the number of hands required to solve a given task (i.e., unimanual, pseudo unimanual, or bimanual) and the spatiotemporal progression of manual actions (i.e., sequential or concurrent). (b) Determine the forms and functions of manual asymmetries that these tasks can potentially elicit within the broader scope of the behavioral repertoire of an individual, a population, or a species. (c) Qualify the scope of the inter-individual, -population, or -species comparisons. We then describe the division of labor as a general principle underlying manual asymmetries in non-human primates, and propose experimental designs that would elaborate the forms and functions of manual asymmetries in non-human primates, and the associated adaptive value.', u'This paper describes the conceptual design of a regional modelling framework to assess scenarios for the forest-based bioeconomy.  The framework consists of a core set of tools: a partial equilibrium model for the forest sector, a forestry dynamics model for forest growth and harvest and a wood resources balance sheet.  The framework can be expanded to include an energy model, a land use model and a forest owner decision model. This partially integrated, multi-disciplinary modelling framework is described, with particular emphasis on the structure of the variables to be exchanged between the framework tools.  The data exchange is subject to a series of integrity checks to ensure that the model is computing the correct information in the correct format and order of elements.', u'A practical approach to understanding lateral asymmetries in body, brain, and cognition would be to examine the performance advantages/disadvantages associated with the corresponding functions and behavior. In the present study, we examined whether the division of labor in hand usage, marked by the preferential usage of the two hands across manual operations requiring maneuvering in three-dimensional space (e.g., reaching for food, grooming, and hitting an opponent) and those requiring physical strength (e.g., climbing), as described by Mangalam et al. [1], is associated with higher hand performance in free-ranging bonnet macaques, Macaca radiata. We determined the extent to which (a) the macaques exhibit laterality in hand usage in an experimental unimanual and a bimanual food-reaching task, and (b) manual laterality is associated with hand performance in an experimental hand-performance-differentiation task. We found strong negative relationships between (a) the performance of the preferred hand in the hand-performance-differentiation task (measured as the latency in food extraction; lower latency = higher performance), the preferred hand determined using the bimanual food-reaching task, and the normalized difference in the performance between the two hands (measured as the difference in the latency in food extraction between them normalized by the latency in food extraction using the preferred hand), and (b) the normalized difference in the performance between the two hands and the manual specialization (measured as the absolute difference in the laterality in hand usage between the unimanual and the bimanual food-reaching tasks; lesser difference = higher manual specialization). These observations demonstrate that the division of labor between the two hands is associated with higher hand performance.', u'Rainfall induced landslides and soil erosion are part of a complex system of multiple interacting processes, and both are capable of significantly affecting sediment budgets. These sediment mass movements also have the potential to significantly impact on a broad network of ecosystems health, functionality and the services they provide. To support the integrated assessment of these processes it is necessary to develop reliable modelling architectures. This paper proposes a semi-quantitative integrated methodology for a robust assessment of soil erosion rates in data poor regions affected by landslide activity. It combines heuristic, empirical and probabilistic approaches. This proposed methodology is based on the geospatial semantic array programming paradigm and has been implemented on a catchment scale methodology using GIS spatial analysis tools and GNU Octave. The integrated data-transformation model relies on a modular architecture, where the information flow among modules is constrained by semantic checks. In order to improve computational reproducibility, the geospatial data transformations implemented in ESRI ArcGis are made available in the free software GRASS GIS. The proposed modelling architecture is flexible enough for future transdisciplinary scenario-analysis to be more easily designed. In particular, the architecture might contribute as a novel component to simplify future integrated analyses of the potential impact of wildfires or vegetation types and distributions, on sediment transport from water induced landslides and erosion.', u'With the increasing use of massively parallel sequencing approaches in evolutionary biology, the need for fast and accurate methods suitable to investigate genetic structure and evolutionary history are more important than ever. We propose new distance measures for estimating genetic distances between individuals when allelic variation, gene dosage and recombination could compromise standard approaches. We present four distance measures based on single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) and evaluate them against previously published measures using coalescent- based simulations. Simulations were used to test (i) whether the measures give unbiased and accurate distance estimates, (ii) whether they can accurately identify the genomic mixture of hybrid individuals and (iii) whether they give precise (low variance) estimates. The effect of rate variation among genes and recombination was also investigated. The results showed that the SNP-based GENPOFAD distance we propose appears to work well in the widest range of circumstances. It was the most accurate and precise method for estimating genetic distances and is also relatively good at estimating the genomic mixture of hybrid individuals. Our simulations provide benchmarks to compare the performance of different method that estimate genetic distances between organisms.', u'Population low-coverage whole-genome sequencing is rapidly emerging as a prominent approach for discovering genomic variation and genotyping a cohort. This approach combines substantially lower cost than full-coverage sequencing with whole-genome discovery of low-allele-frequency variants, to an extent that is not possible with array genotyping or exome sequencing. However, a challenging computational problem arises when attempting to discover variants and genotype the entire cohort. Variant discovery and genotyping are relatively straightforward on a single individual that has been sequenced at high coverage, because the inference decomposes into the independent genotyping of each genomic position for which a sufficient number of confidently mapped reads are available. However, in cases where low-coverage population data are given, the joint inference requires leveraging the complex linkage disequilibrium patterns in the cohort to compensate for sparse and missing data in each individual. The potentially massive computation time for such inference, as well as the missing data that confound low-frequency allele discovery, need to be overcome for this approach to become practical. Here, we present Reveel, a novel method for single nucleotide variant calling and genotyping of large cohorts that have been sequenced at low coverage. Reveel introduces a novel technique for leveraging linkage disequilibrium that deviates from previous Markov-based models. We evaluate Reveel???s performance through extensive simulations as well as real data from the 1000 Genomes Project, and show that it achieves higher accuracy in low-frequency allele discovery and substantially lower computation cost than previous state-of-the-art methods.', u'The rapid development of sequencing technologies represents new opportunities for population genetics research. It is expected that genomic data will increase our ability to reconstruct the history of populations. While this increase in genetic information will likely help biologists and anthropologists to reconstruct the demographic history of populations, it also represents new challenges. Recent work has shown that structured populations generate signals of population size change. As a consequence it is often difficult to determine whether demographic events such as expansions or contractions (bottlenecks) inferred from genetic data are real or due to the fact that populations are structured in nature. Given that few inferential methods allow us to account for that structure, and that genomic data will necessarily increase the precision of parameter estimates, it is important to develop new approaches. In the present study we analyse two demographic models. The first is a model of instantaneous population size change whereas the second is the classical symmetric island model. We (i) re-derive the distribution of coalescence times under the two models for a sample of size two, (ii) use a maximum likelihood approach to estimate the parameters of these models (iii) validate this estimation procedure under a wide array of parameter combinations, (iv) implement and validate a model choice procedure by using a Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. Altogether we show that it is possible to estimate parameters under several models and perform efficient model choice using genetic data from a single diploid individual.', u'Budding yeast, S. cerevisiae, has been used extensively as a model organism for studying cellular processes in evolutionarily distant species, including humans. However, different human tissues, while inheriting a similar genetic code, exhibit distinct anatomical and physiological properties. Specific biochemical processes and associated biomolecules that differentiate various tissues are not completely understood, neither is the extent to which a unicellular organism, such as yeast, can be used to model these processes within each tissue. \n\nWe propose a novel computational and statistical framework to systematically quantify the suitability of yeast as a model organism for different human tissues. We develop a computational method for dissecting the human interactome into tissue-specific cellular networks. Using these networks, we simultaneously partition the functional space of human genes, and their corresponding pathways, based on their conservation both across species and among different tissues. We study these sub-spaces in detail, and relate them to the overall similarity of each tissue with yeast. \n\nMany complex disorders are driven by a coupling of housekeeping (universally expressed in all tissues) and tissue-selective (expressed only in specific tissues) dysregulated pathways. We show that human-specific subsets of tissue-selective genes are significantly associated with the onset and development of a number of pathologies. Consequently, they provide excellent candidates as drug targets for therapeutic interventions. We also present a novel tool that can be used to assess the suitability of the yeast model for studying tissue-specific physiology and pathophysiology in humans.', u'Social communication is heavily affected in patients with neuropsychiatric disorders. Accordingly, mouse models designed to study the mechanisms leading to these disorders are tested for this phenotypic trait. Test conditions vary between different models, and the effect of these test conditions on the quantity and quality of social interactions and ultrasonic communication is unknown. The present study examines to which extent the habituation time to the test cage as well as the shape / size of the cage influence social communication in freely interacting mice. We tested 8 pairs of male mice in free dyadic social interactions, with two habituation times (20 min and 30 min) and three cage formats (rectangle, round, square). We tested the effect of these conditions on the different types of social contacts, approach-escape sequences, follow behavior, and the time each animal spent in the vision field of the other one, as well as on the emission of ultrasonic vocalizations and their contexts of emission. We provide for the first time an integrated analysis of the social interaction behavior and ultrasonic vocalizations. Surprisingly, we did not highlight any significant effect of habituation time and cage shape / size on the behavioral events examined. There was only a slight increase of social interactions with the longer habituation time in the round cage. Remarkably, we also showed that vocalizations were emitted during specific behavioral sequences especially during close contact or approach behaviors. The present study provides a protocol reliably eliciting social contacts and ultrasonic vocalizations in male mice. This protocol is therefore well adapted for standardized investigation of social interactions in mouse models of neuropsychiatric disorders.', u'Small-molecule protein docking is an essential tool in drug design and to understand molecular recognition. In the present work we introduce FlexAID, a small-molecule docking algorithm that accounts for target side-chain flexibility and utilizes a soft scoring function, i.e. one that is not highly dependent on specific geometric criteria, based on surface complementarity. The pairwise energy parameters were derived from a large dataset of true positive poses and negative decoys from the PDBbind dataset through an iterative process using Monte Carlo simulations. The prediction of binding poses is tested using the independent Astex dataset while performance in virtual screening is evaluated using a subset of the DUD dataset. We compare FlexAID to AutoDock Vina, FlexX, and rDock in an extensive number of scenarios to understand the strengths and limitations of the different programs as well as to reported results for Glide, GOLD and DOCK6 where applicable. The most relevant among these scenarios is that of docking on flexible non native-complex structures where as is the case in reality, the target conformation in the bound form is not known a priori. We demonstrate that FlexAID, unlike other programs, is robust against increasing structural variability. FlexAID obtains equivalent sampling success as GOLD and performs better than AutoDock Vina or FlexX in all scenarios against non native- complex structures. FlexAID is better than rDock when there is at least one critical side-chain movement required upon ligand binding. In virtual screening, FlexAID rescored results are comparable to those of AutoDock Vina and rDock. The higher accuracy in flexible targets where critical movements are required, intuitive PyMOL-integrated graphical user interface and free source code as well as pre-compiled executables for Windows, Linux and Mac OS make FlexAID a welcome addition to the arsenal of existing small-molecule protein docking methods.', u'All species of the genus Populus (poplar, aspen) are dioecious, suggesting an ancient origin of this trait. Theory suggests that non-recombining sex-linked regions should quickly spread, eventually becoming heteromorphic chromosomes. In contrast, we show using whole genome scans that the sex-associated region in P. trichocarpa is small and much younger than the age of the genus. This indicates that sex-determination is highly labile in poplar, consistent with recent evidence of \u201cturnover\u201d of sex determination regions in animals. We performed whole genome resequencing of 52 Populus trichocarpa (black cottonwood) and 34 P. balsamifera (balsam poplar) individuals of known sex. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) in these unstructured populations identified 650 SNPs significantly associated with sex. We estimate the size of the sex-linked region to be \u223c100 Kbp. All significant SNPs were in strong linkage disequilibrium despite the fact that they were mapped to six different chromosomes (plus 3 unmapped scaffolds) in version 2.2 of the reference genome. We show that this is likely due to genome misassembly. The segregation pattern of sex associated SNPs revealed this to be an XY sex determining system. Estimated divergence times of X and Y haplotype sequences (6-7 MYA) are much more recent than the divergence of P. trichocarpa (poplar) and P. tremuloides (aspen). Consistent with this, in P. tremuloides we found no XY haplotype divergence within the P. trichocarpa sex-determining region. These two species therefore have a different genomic architecture of sex, suggestive of at least one turnover event in the recent past.', u'Germline copy number variants (CNVs) and somatic copy number alterations (SCNAs) are of significant importance in syndromic conditions and cancer. Massive parallel sequencing is increasingly used to infer copy number information from variations in the read depth in sequencing data. However, this approach has limitations in the case of targeted re-sequencing, which leaves gaps in coverage between the regions chosen for enrichment and introduces biases related to the efficiency of target capture and library preparation.\n\nWe present a method for copy number detection, implemented in the software package CNVkit, that uses both the targeted reads and the nonspecifically captured off-target reads to infer copy number evenly across the genome. This combination achieves both exon-level resolution in targeted regions and sufficient resolution in the larger intronic and intergenic regions to identify copy number changes. In particular, we successfully inferred copy number at equivalent to 100-kilobase resolution genome-wide from a platform targeting as few as 293 genes. After normalizing read counts to a pooled reference, we evaluated and corrected for three sources of bias that explain most of the extraneous variability in the sequencing read depth: GC content, target footprint size and spacing, and repetitive sequences. We compared the performance of CNVkit to copy number changes identified by array comparative genomic hybridization. We packaged the components of CNVkit so that it is straightforward to use and provides visualizations, detailed reporting of significant features, and export options for compatibility with other software.\n\nAvailability: http://github.com/etal/cnvkit', u'Noninvasive genetic approaches enable biomonitoring without the need to directly observe or disturb target organisms. Environmental DNA (eDNA) methods have recently extended this approach by assaying genetic material within bulk environmental samples without a priori knowledge about the presence of target biological material. This paper describes a novel and promising source of noninvasive spider DNA and insect eDNA from spider webs. Using black widow spiders (Latrodectus spp.) fed with house crickets (Acheta domesticus), we successfully extracted and amplified mitochondrial DNA sequences of both spider and prey from spider web. Detectability of spider DNA did not differ between assays with amplicon sizes from 135 to 497 base pairs. Spider DNA and prey eDNA remained detectable at least 88 days after living organisms were no longer present on the web. Spider web DNA may be an important tool in conservation research, pest management, biogeography studies, and biodiversity assessments.', u'Recent methodological advances are enabling better examination of speciation and extinction processes and patterns. A major open question is the origin of large\ndiscrepancies in species number between groups of the same age. Existing frameworks to model this diversity either focus on changes between lineages, neglecting global effects such\nas mass extinctions, or focus on changes over time which would affect all lineages. Yet it seems probable that both lineages differences and mass extinctions affect the same groups.\nHere we used simulations to test the performance of two widely used methods, under complex scenarios. We report good performances, although with a tendency to over-predict\nevents when increasing the complexity of the scenario. Overall, we find that lineage shifts are better detected than mass extinctions. This work has significance for assessing the\nmethods currently used for estimating changes in diversification using phylogenies and developing new tests.', u'Quantification of RNA transcripts with RNA-Seq is inaccurate due to positional fragment bias, which is not represented appropriately by current statistical models of RNA-Seq data. This article introduces the Mix2 (rd. "mixquare") model, which uses a mixture of probability distributions to model the transcript specific positional fragment bias. The parameters of the Mix2 model can be efficiently trained with the Expectation Maximization (EM) algorithm resulting in simultaneous estimates of the transcript abundances and transcript specific positional biases. Experiments are conducted on synthetic data and the Universal Human Reference (UHR) and Brain (HBR) sample from the Microarray quality control (MAQC) data set. Comparing the correlation between qPCR and FPKM values to state-of-the-art methods Cufflinks and PennSeq we obtain an increase in R2 value from 0.44 to 0.6 and from 0.34 to 0.54. In the detection of differential expression between UHR and HBR the true positive rate increases from 0.44 to 0.71 at a false positive rate of 0.1. Finally, the Mix2 model is used to investigate biases present in the MAQC data. This reveals 5 dominant biases which deviate from the common assumption of a uniform fragment distribution. The Mix2 software is available at http://www.lexogen.com/fileadmin/uploads/bioinfo/mix2model.tgz.', u'Background The ancient Silk Road has been a trading route between Europe and Central Asia from the 2nd century BCE to the 15th century CE. While most populations on this route have been characterized, the genetic background of others remains poorly understood, and little is known about past migration patterns. The scientific expedition "Marco Polo" has recently collected genetic and phenotypic data in six regions (Georgia, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan) along the Silk Road to study the genetics of a number of phenotypes.\n\nResults We characterized the genetic structure of these populations within a worldwide context. We observed a West-East subdivision albeit the existence of a genetic component shared within Central Asia and nearby populations from Europe and Near East. We observed a contribution of up to 50% from Europe and Asia to most of the populations that have been analyzed. The contribution from Asia dates back to ~25 generations and is limited to the Eastern Silk Road. Time and direction of this contribution are consistent with the Mongolian expansion era.\n\nConclusions We clarified the genetic structure of six populations from Central Asia and suggested a complex pattern of gene flow among them. We provided a map of migration events in time and space and we quantified exchanges among populations. Altogether these novel findings will support the future studies aimed at understanding the genetics of the phenotypes that have been collected during the Marco Polo campaign, they will provide insights into the history of these populations, and they will be useful to reconstruct the developments and events that have shaped modern Eurasians genomes.', u'Formidable difficulties arise when attempting to explain the non-enzymatic replication, proliferation, and the acquisition of homochirality and information content, of RNA and DNA at the beginnings of life.  However, new light can be shed on these problems by viewing the origin of life as a non-equilibrium thermodynamic process in which RNA, DNA and other fundamental molecules of life arose as structures to dissipate the prevailing solar spectrum. Here we present experimental results which demonstrate that the absorption and dissipation of UV-C light by DNA at temperatures below their melting temperature leads to complete and reversible denaturing for small synthetic DNA of 25 base pairs (bp), and to partial and reversible denaturing for 48 bp DNA and for large salmon sperm and yeast DNA of average size 100 kbp. This result has direct bearing on the above mentioned problems and thereby suggests a possible thermodynamic route to the origin of life.', u'A cell line is a cell culture developed from a single cell and therefore consisting of cells with a uniform genetic make-up. A cell line has an important role as a research resource such as organisms, antibodies, constructs, knockdown reagents, etc. Unique identification of cell lines in the biomedical literature is important for the reproducibility of science. As data citation, resource citation is also important for resource re-use.\n\nIn this paper, we mention the challenges of identifying cell lines and describe a system for cell line annotation with preliminary results.', u'The classic model of eukaryotic gene expression requires direct spatial contact between a distal enhancer and a proximal promoter. Recent Chromosome Conformation Capture (3C) studies show that enhancers and promoters are embedded in a complex network of looping interactions. Here we use a polymer model of chromatin fiber to investigate whether, and to what extent, looping interactions between elements in the vicinity of an enhancer-promoter pair can influence their contact frequency. Our equilibrium polymer simulations show that a chromatin loop, formed by elements flanking either an enhancer or a promoter, suppresses enhancer-promoter interactions, working as an insulator. A loop formed by elements located in the region between an enhancer and a promoter, on the contrary, facilitates their interactions. We find that different mechanisms underlie insulation and facilitation; insulation occurs due to steric exclusion by the loop, and is a global effect, while facilitation occurs due to an effective shortening of the enhancer-promoter genomic distance, and is a local effect. Consistently, we find that these effects manifest quite differently for in silico 3C and microscopy. Our results show that looping interactions that do not directly involve an enhancer-promoter pair can nevertheless significantly modulate their interactions. This phenomenon is analogous to allosteric regulation in proteins, where a conformational change triggered by binding of a regulatory molecule to one site affects the state of another site.', u'The phytohormone salicylic acid (SA) affects plant development and defense responses. Recent studies revealed that SA is also involved in the regulation of sphingolipid metabolism, but the details of this regulation remain to be explored. Here, we use in silico Flux Balance Analysis (FBA) with published microarray data to construct a whole-cell simulation model, including 23 pathways, 259 reactions and 172 metabolites, to predict the alterations in flux of major sphingolipid species after treatment with exogenous SA. This model predicts significant changes in fluxes of certain sphingolipid species after SA treatment, changes that likely trigger downstream physiological and phenotypic effects. To validate the simulation, we used isotopic non-stationary metabolic flux analysis to measure sphingolipid contents and turnover rate in Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings treated with SA or the SA analog benzothiadiazole (BTH). The results show that both SA and BTH affect sphingolipid metabolism by not only concentration of certain species, but also the optimal flux distribution and turnover rate of sphingolipid contents. Our strategy allows us to formally estimate sphingolipid fluxes on a short time scale and gives us a systemic view of the effect of SA on sphingolipid homeostasis.', u'Next generation sequencing of cellular RNA is making it possible to characterize genes and alternative splicing in unprecedented detail.  However, designing bioinformatics tools to capture splicing variation accurately has proven difficult. Current programs find major isoforms of a gene but miss finer splicing variations, or are sensitive but highly imprecise. We present CLASS, a novel open source tool for accurate genome-guided transcriptome assembly from RNA-seq reads. CLASS employs a splice graph to represent a gene and its splice variants, combined with a linear program to determine an accurate set of exons and efficient splice graph-based transcript selection algorithms. When compared against reference programs, CLASS had the best overall accuracy and could detect up to twice as many splicing events with precision similar to the best reference program. Notably, it was the only tool that produced consistently reliable transcript models for a wide range of applications and sequencing strategies, including very large data sets and ribosomal RNA-depleted samples. Lightweight and multi-threaded, CLASS required <3GB RAM and less than one day to analyze a 350 million read set, and is an excellent choice for transcriptomics studies, from clinical RNA sequencing, to alternative splicing analyses, and to the annotation of new genomes.', u'Interspecific gene flow is pervasive throughout the tree of life. Although detecting gene flow between populations has been facilitated by new analytical approaches, determining the timing and geography of hybridization has remained difficult, particularly for historical gene flow. A geographically explicit phylogenetic approach is needed to determine the ancestral population overlap. In this study, we performed population genetic analyses, species delimitation, simulations, and a recently developed approach of species tree diffusion to infer the phylogeographic history, timing and geographic extent of gene flow in lizards of the Sceloporus spinosus group. The two species in this group, S. spinosus and S. horridus, are distributed in eastern and western portions of Mexico, respectively, but populations of these species are sympatric in the southern Mexican highlands. We generated data consisting of three mitochondrial genes and eight nuclear loci for 148 and 68 individuals, respectively. We delimited six lineages in this group, but found strong evidence of mito-nuclear discordance in sympatric populations of S. spinosus and S. horridus owing to mitochondrial introgression. We used coalescent simulations to differentiate ancestral gene flow from secondary contact, but found mixed support for these two models. Bayesian phylogeography indicated more than 60% range overlap between ancestral S. spinosus and S. horridus populations since the time of their divergence. Isolation-migration analyses, however, revealed near-zero levels of gene flow between these ancestral populations. Interpreting results from both simulations and empirical data indicate that despite a long history of sympatry among these two species, gene flow in this group has only recently occurred.', u'Small regulatory RNAs (sRNAs) are the most abundant post-transcriptional regulators in bacteria. They serve ubiquitous roles that control nearly every aspects of bacterial physiology. Identification of important features from sRNAs sequences will guide the computational prediction of new sRNA sequences for a better understanding of the pervasive sRNA-mediated regulation in bacteria. In this study, we have performed systematic analyses of many sequence and structural features that are possibly related to sRNA properties and identified a subset of significant features that effectively discriminate sRNAs sequences from random sequences. we then used a neural network model that integrated these subfeatures on unlabeled testing datasets, and it had achieved a 92.2% recall and 89.8% specificity. Finally, we applied this prediction model for genome-wide identification of sRNAs-encoded genes using a sliding-window approach. We recovered multiple known sRNAs and hundreds of predicted new sRNAs. These candidate novel sRNAs deserve extensive study to better understand the sRNA-mediated regulatory network in bacteria.', u'High molecular weight glutenin subunits of wheat are economically important seed storage proteins. They are coded by paralog pairs of the Glu-1 gene on each of the three genomes in the hexaploid wheat. Their expressions are under both temporal and spatial control. Many factors have been identified that influence the activity of Glu-1 genes, but the underlying regulatory mechanisms are still unclear. In order to identify motifs and motif clusters responsible for quantitative regulation of Glu-1 gene expressions, promoter profiles and transcription dynamics of the genes were analysed. It was found that promoter motif compositions of homoeolog Glu-1 genes are conserved. Our results demonstrated that while promoter profiles explain the differences of expression between homoeologs and between paralogs, it does not explain the variation of activity between alleles. Interestingly, our analyses revealed that the promoters of Glu-1 genes are divided into six cis-regulatory modules that are either locally overrepresented by binding sites belonging to unique but distinct transcription factor (TF) families or have conserved motif clusters. Moreover, our analyses demonstrated that the varying expression dynamics of TFs across genotypes is likely to be the primary contributor of the allelic variation of Glu-1 gene expressions. Thus, the six putative cis-regulatory modules in the Glu-1 gene promoters bound by the differentially expressed TFs are suggested to play a key role in the quantitative and tissue specific regulation of these genes.', u'FusionCatcher is a software tool for finding somatic fusion genes in paired-end RNA-sequencing data from human or other vertebrates.  FusionCatcher achieves competitive detection rates and real-time PCR validation rates in RNA-sequencing data from tumor cells. FusionCatcher is available at http://code.google.com/p/fusioncatcher', u'Gire et al. (Science 345:1369-1372, 2014) analyzed 81 complete genomes sampled from the 2014 Zaire ebolavirus (EBOV) outbreak and reported "rapid accumulation of [...] genetic variation" and a substitution rate that was "roughly twice as high within the 2014 outbreak as between outbreaks." These findings have received widespread attention, and many have perceived Gire et al.\'s results as implying rapid adaptation of EBOV to humans during the current outbreak. Here, we argue that, on the contrary, sequence divergence in EBOV is rather limited, and that the currently available data contain no robust signal of particularly rapid evolution or adaptation to humans. The doubled substitution rate can be attributed entirely to the application of a molecular-clock model to a population of sequences with minimal divergence and segregating polymorphisms. Our results highlight how subtle technical aspects of sophisticated evolutionary analysis methods may result in highly-publicized, misconstrued statements about an ongoing public health crisis.', u'Many complex human diseases are highly sexually dimorphic, suggesting a potential contribution of the X chromosome to disease risk. However, the X chromosome has been neglected or incorrectly analyzed in most genome-wide association studies (GWAS). We present tailored analytical methods and software that facilitate X-wide association studies (XWAS), which we further applied to reanalyze data from 16 GWAS of different autoimmune and related diseases (AID). We associated several X-linked genes with disease risk, among which (1) ARHGEF6 is associated with Crohn?s disease and replicated in a study of ulcerative colitis, another inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Indeed, ARHGEF6 interacts with a gastric bacterium that has been implicated in IBD. (2) CENPI is associated with three different AID, which is compelling in light of known associations with AID of autosomal genes encoding centromere proteins, as well as established autosomal evidence of pleiotropy between autoimmune diseases. (3) We replicated a previous association of FOXP3, a transcription factor that regulates T-cell development and function, with vitiligo; and (4) we discovered that C1GALT1C1 exhibits sex-specific effect on disease risk in both IBDs. These and other X-linked genes that we associated with AID tend to be highly expressed in tissues related to immune response, participate in major immune pathways, and display differential gene expression between males and females. Combined, the results demonstrate the importance of the X chromosome in autoimmunity, reveal the potential of extensive XWAS, even based on existing data, and provide the tools and incentive to properly include the X chromosome in future studies.', u'Hunting mode or the distinct set of behavioural strategies that a predator employs while hunting can be an important determinant of the prey organism?s behavioural response. However, few studies have considered the predator?s hunting mode while describing differences in anti-predatory behaviours of a prey species. Here we document the influence of active hunters (zebra jumping spiders, Salticus scenicus) and ambush predators (Chinese praying mantids, Tenodera aridifolia sinensis) on the capture deterrence anti-predatory behavioural repertoire of the model organism, Drosophila melanogaster. We hypothesized that D. melanogaster would reduce overall locomotory activity in the presence of ambush predators, and increase them with active hunters. First we observed and described the behavioural repertoire of D. melanogaster in the presence of the predators.  We documented three previously undescribed behaviours- abdominal lifting, stopping and retreat- which were performed at higher frequency by D. melanogaster in the presence of predators, and may aid in capture deterrence. Consistent with our predictions, we observed an increase in the overall activity of D. melanogaster in the presence of jumping spiders (active hunter). However, counter to our prediction, mantids (ambush hunter) had only a modest influence on activity. Given these new insights into Drosophila behaviour, and with the genetic tools available, dissecting the molecular mechanisms of anti-predator behaviours may now be feasible in this system.', u'Recent developments in DNA sequencing have enabled the large and complex genomes of many crop species to be determined for the first time, even those previously intractable due to their polyploid nature. Indeed, over the course of the last two years, the genome sequences of several commercially important cereals, notably barley and bread wheat, have become available, as well as those of related wild species. While still incomplete, comparison to other, more completely assembled species suggests that coverage of genic regions is likely to be high.\n\nEnsembl Plants (http://plants.ensembl.org) is an integrative resource organising, analysing and visualising genome-scale information for important crop and model plants. Available data includes reference genome sequence, variant loci, gene models and functional annotation. For variant loci, individual and population genotypes, linkage information and, where available, phenotypic information, are shown. Comparative analyses are performed on DNA and protein sequence alignments. The resulting genome alignments and gene trees, representing the implied evolutionary history the gene family, are made available for visualisation and analysis. Driven by the use case of bread wheat, specific extensions to the analysis pipelines and web interface have recently been developed to support polyploid genomes.\n\nData in Ensembl Plants is accessible through a genome browser incorporating various specialist interfaces for different data types, and through a variety of additional methods for programmatic access and data mining. These interfaces are consistent with those offered through the Ensembl interface for the genomes of non-plant species, including those of plant pathogens, pests and pollinators, facilitating the study of the plant in its environment.', u'Expanding populations incur a mutation burden \u2013 the so-called expansion load. Previous studies of expansion load have focused on co-dominant mutations. An important consequence of this assumption is that expansion load stems exclusively from the accumulation of new mutations occurring in individuals living at the wave front. Using individual-based simulations we study here the dynamics of standing genetic variation at the front of expansions, and its consequences on mean fitness if mutations are recessive. We find that deleterious genetic diversity is quickly lost at the front of the expansion, but the loss of deleterious mutations at some loci is compensated by an increase of their frequencies at other loci. The frequency of deleterious homozygotes therefore increases along the expansion axis whereas the average number of deleterious mutations per individual remains nearly constant across the species range. This reveals two important differences to co-dominant models: (i) mean fitness at the front of the expansion drops much faster if mutations are recessive, and (ii) mutation load can increase during the expansion even if the total number of deleterious mutations per individual remains constant. We use our model to make predictions about the shape of the site frequency spectrum at the front of range expansion, and about correlations between heterozygosity and fitness in different parts of the species range. Importantly, these predictions provide opportunities to empirically validate our theoretical results. We discuss our findings in the light of recent results on the distribution of deleterious genetic variation across human populations, and link them to empirical results on the correlation of heterozygosity and fitness found in many natural range expansions.', u'Bacterial cells have a remarkable ability to adapt and evolve to environmental changes, a phenomenon known as adaptive evolution. Adaptive evolution can be explained by phenotypic changes caused by genetic mutations, and by phenotypic plasticity that occur without genetic alteration, although far less is known about the contributions of the latter. In this study, we analyzed phenotypic and genotypic changes in Escherichia coli cells during adaptive evolution to ethanol stress. Phenotypic changes were quantified by transcriptome and metabolome analyses and found similar among independently evolved ethanol tolerant strains. The contribution of identified mutations in the tolerant strain was evaluated by using site-directed mutagenesis, which suggested that the fixation of these mutations cannot fully explain the observed ethanol tolerance. The phenotype of ethanol tolerance was stably maintained after an environmental change, suggesting that a mechanism of non-genetic memory contributed to at least part of the adaptation process.', u'Evolutionary-rate variation among sites within proteins depends on functional and biophysical properties that constrain protein evolution. It is generally accepted that proteins must be able to fold stably in order to function. However, the relationship between stability constraints and among-sites rate variation is not well understood. Here, we present a biophysical model that links the thermodynamic stability changes due to mutations at sites in proteins (\u0394\u0394G) to the rate at which mutations accumulate at those sites over evolutionary time. We find that such a "stability model" generally performs well, displaying correlations between predicted and empirically observed rates of up to 0.75 for some proteins. We further find that our model has comparable predictive power as does an alternative, recently proposed "stress model" that explains evolutionary-rate variation among sites in terms of the excess energy needed for mutants to adopt the correct active structure (\u0394\u0394G*). The two models make distinct predictions, though, and for some proteins the stability model outperforms the stress model and vice versa. We conclude that both stability and stress constrain site-specific sequence evolution in proteins.', u'The nematode Caenorhabditis briggsae is a model for comparative developmental evolution with C. elegans. Worldwide collections of C. briggsae have implicated an intriguing history of divergence among genetic groups separated by latitude, or by restricted geography, that is being exploited to dissect the genetic basis to adaptive evolution and reproductive incompatibility. And yet, the genomic scope and timing of population divergence is unclear. We performed high-coverage whole-genome sequencing of 37 wild isolates of the nematode C. briggsae and applied a pairwise sequentially Markovian coalescent (PSMC) model to 703 combinations of genomic haplotypes to draw inferences about population history, the genomic scope of natural selection, and to compare with 40 wild isolates of C. elegans. We estimate that a diaspora of at least 6 distinct C. briggsae lineages separated from one another approximately 200 thousand generations ago, including the ???Temperate??? and ???Tropical??? phylogeographic groups that dominate most samples from around the world. Moreover, an ancient population split in its history 2 million generations ago, coupled with only rare gene flow among lineage groups, validates this system as a model for incipient speciation. Low versus high recombination regions of the genome give distinct signatures of population size change through time, indicative of widespread effects of selection on highly linked portions of the genome owing to extreme inbreeding by self-fertilization. Analysis of functional mutations indicates that genomic context, owing to selection that acts on long linkage blocks, is a more important driver of population variation than are the functional attributes of the individually encoded genes.', u'Replication timing is an important determinant of germline mutation patterns, with a higher rate of point mutations in late replicating regions. Mechanisms underlying this association remain elusive. One of the suggested explanations is the activity of error-prone DNA polymerases in late-replicating regions. Polymerase \u03b6 (pol \u03b6), an essential error-prone polymerase biased towards transversions, also has a tendency to produce dinucleotide mutations (DNMs), complex mutational events that simultaneously affect two adjacent nucleotides. Experimental studies have shown that pol \u03b6 is strongly biased towards GC->AA/TT DNMs. Using primate divergence data, we show that the GC->AA/TT pol \u03b6 mutational signature is the most frequent among DNMs, and its rate exceeds the mean rate of other DNM types by a factor of ~10. Unlike the overall rate of DNMs, the pol \u03b6 signature drastically increases with the replication time in the human genome. Finally, the pol \u03b6 signature is enriched in transcribed regions, and there is a strong prevalence of GC->TT over GC->AA DNMs on the non-template strand, indicating association with transcription. A recurrently occurring GC->TT DNM in HRAS gene causes the Costello syndrome; we find a 2-fold increase in the mutation rate, and a 2-fold decrease in the transition/transversion ratio, at distances of up to 1 kb from the DNM, suggesting a link between the Costello syndrome and pol \u03b6 activity. This study uncovers the genomic preferences of pol \u03b6, shedding light on a novel cause of mutational heterogeneity along the genome.', u'Objectives: While recent studies suggest a converging role for genetic factors towards risk for nosologically distinct disorders including autism, intellectual disability (ID), and epilepsy, current estimates of autism prevalence fail to take into account the impact of comorbidity of these neurodevelopmental disorders on autism diagnosis.  We aimed to assess the effect of potential comorbidity of ID on the diagnosis and prevalence of autism by analyzing 11 years of special education enrollment data.\n\nDesign: Population study of autism using the United States special education enrollment data from years 2000-2010.\n \nSetting: US special education.\n\nParticipants: We analyzed 11 years (2000 to 2010) of longitudinal data on approximately 6.2 million children per year from special education enrollment.\n\nResults: We found a 331% increase in the prevalence of autism from 2000 to 2010 within special education, potentially due to a diagnostic recategorization from frequently comorbid features like ID.  In fact, the decrease in ID prevalence equaled an average of 64.2% of the increase of autism prevalence for children aged 3-18 years.  The proportion of ID cases potentially undergoing recategorization to autism was higher (p=0.007) among older children (75%) than younger children (48%).  Some US states showed significant negative correlations between the prevalence of autism compared to that of ID while others did not, suggesting differences in state-specific health policy to be a major factor in categorizing autism. \n\nConclusions:  Our results suggest that current ascertainment practices are based on a single facet of autism-specific clinical features and do not consider associated comorbidities that may confound diagnosis.  Longitudinal studies with detailed phenotyping and deep molecular genetic analyses are necessary to completely understand the cause of this complex disorder.  Future studies of autism prevalence should also take these factors into account.', u'Rare copy-number variants (CNVs) are a significant cause of neurodevelopmental disorders. The sequence architecture of the human genome predisposes certain individuals to deletions and duplications within specific genomic regions. While assessment of individuals with different breakpoints has identified causal genes for certain rare CNVs, deriving gene-phenotype correlations for rare CNVs with similar breakpoints has been challenging. We present a comprehensive review of the literature related to genetic architecture that is predisposed to recurrent rearrangements, and functional evaluation of deletions, duplications, and candidate genes within rare CNV intervals using mouse, zebrafish, and fruit fly models.  It is clear that phenotypic assessment and complete genetic evaluation of large cohorts of individuals carrying specific CNVs and functional evaluation using multiple animal models are necessary to understand the molecular genetic basis of neurodevelopmental disorders.', u'In comparative high-throughput sequencing assays, a fundamental task is the analysis of count data, such as read counts per gene in RNA-seq data, for evidence of systematic changes across experimental conditions. Small replicate numbers, discreteness, large dynamic range and the presence of outliers require a suitable statistical approach. We present DESeq2, a method for differential analysis of count data. DESeq2 uses shrinkage estimation for dispersions and fold changes to improve stability and interpretability of the estimates. This enables a more quantitative analysis focused on the strength rather than the mere presence of differential expression and facilitates downstream tasks such as gene ranking and visualization. DESeq2 is available as an R/Bioconductor package.', u'We present software that reconstructs genomes from shotgun metagenomic sequences using a reference-independent approach.  This method permits the identification of OTUs in large complex communities where many species are unknown.  Binning reduces the complexity of a metagenomic dataset enabling many downstream analyses previously unavailable. In this study we developed MetaBAT, a robust statistical framework that integrates probabilistic distances of genome abundance with sequence composition for automatic binning. Applying MetaBAT to a human gut microbiome dataset identified 173 highly specific genomes bins including many representing previously unidentified species.', u'Evolutionary biologists have long been fascinated by the extreme differences in species numbers across branches of the Tree of Life. This has motivated the development of statistical phy- logenetic methods for detecting shifts in the rate of lineage diversification (speciation \u2013 extinction). One of the most frequently used methods\u2014implemented in the program MEDUSA\u2014explores a set of diversification-rate models, where each model uniquely assigns branches of the phylogeny to a set of one or more diversification-rate categories. Each candidate model is first fit to the data, and the Akaike Information Criterion (AIC) is then used to identify the optimal diversification model. Surprisingly, the statistical behavior of this popular method is completely unknown, which is a concern in light of the poor performance of the AIC as a means of choosing among models in other phylogenetic comparative contexts, and also because of the ad hoc algorithm used to visit models. Here, we perform an extensive simulation study demonstrating that, as implemented, MEDUSA (1) has an extremely high Type I error rate (on average, spurious diversification-rate shifts are identi- fied 42% of the time), and (2) provides severely biased parameter estimates (on average, estimated net-diversification and relative-extinction rates are 183% and 20% of their true values, respectively). We performed simulation experiments to reveal the source(s) of these pathologies, which include (1) the use of incorrect critical thresholds for model selection, and (2) errors in the likelihood function. Understanding the statistical behavior of MEDUSA is critical both to empirical researchers\u2014in order to clarify whether these methods can reliably be applied to empirical datasets\u2014and to theoretical biologists\u2014in order to clarify whether new methods are required, and to reveal the specific problems that need to be solved in order to develop more reliable approaches for detecting shifts in the rate of lineage diversification.', u'Although technology has triumphed in facilitating routine genome re-sequencing, new challenges have been created for the data analyst. Genome scale surveys of human disease variation generate volumes of data that far exceed capabilities for laboratory characterization, and importantly also create a substantial burden of type I error. By incorporating a variety of functional annotations as predictors, such as regulatory and protein coding elements, statistical learning has been widely investigated as a mechanism for the prioritization of genetic variants that are more likely to be associated with complex disease. These methods offer a hope of identification of sufficiently large numbers of truly associated variants, to make cost-effective the large-scale functional characterization necessary to progress genome scale experiments. We compared the results from three published prioritization procedures which use different statistical learning algorithms and different predictors with regard to the quantity, type and coding of the functional annotations. In this paper we also explore different combinations of algorithm and annotation set. We train the models in 60% of the data and reserve the remainder for testing the accuracy. As an application, we tested which methodology performed the best for prioritizing sub-genome-wide-significant variants using data from the first and second rounds of a large schizophrenia meta-analysis by the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium. Results suggest that all methods have considerable (and similar) predictive accuracies (AUCs 0.64-0.71). However, predictive accuracy results obtained from the test set do not always reflect results obtained from the application to the schizophrenia meta-analysis. In conclusion, a variety of algorithms and annotations seem to have a similar potential to effectively enrich true risk variants in genome scale datasets, however none offer more than incremental improvement in prediction. We discuss how methods might be evolved towards the step change in the risk variant prediction required to address the impending bottleneck of the new generation of genome re-sequencing studies.', u'Anatomically modern humans (AMHs) left Africa ~60,000 years ago, marking the first of multiple dispersal events by AMH between Africa and the Arabian Peninsula. The southern dispersal route (SDR) out of Africa (OOA) posits that early AMHs crossed the Bab el-Mandeb strait from the Horn of Africa into what is now Yemen and followed the coast of the Indian Ocean into eastern Eurasia. If AMHs followed the SDR and left modern descendants in situ, Yemeni populations should retain old autochthonous mitogenome lineages. Alternatively, if AMHs did not follow the SDR or did not leave modern descendants in the region, only young autochthonous lineages will remain as evidence of more recent dispersals. We sequenced 113 whole mitogenomes from multiple Yemeni regions with a focus on haplogroups M, N, and L3(xM,N) as they are considered markers of the initial OOA migrations. We performed Bayesian evolutionary analyses to generate time-measured phylogenies calibrated by Neanderthal and Denisovan mitogenome sequences in order to determine the age of Yemeni-specific clades in our dataset. Our results indicate that the M1, N1, and L3(xM,N) sequences in Yemen are the product of recent migration from Africa and western Eurasia. Although these data suggest that modern Yemeni mitogenomes are not markers of the original OOA migrants, we hypothesize that recent population dynamics may obscure any genetic signature of an ancient SDR migration.', u"Every data visualization can be improved with some level of interactivity. Interactive graphics hold particular promise for the exploration of high-dimensional data.  R/qtlcharts is an R package to create interactive graphics for experiments to map quantitative trait loci (QTL; genetic loci that influence quantitative traits). R/qtlcharts serves as a companion to the R/qtl package, providing interactive versions of R/qtl's static graphs, as well as additional interactive graphs for the exploration of high-dimensional genotype and phenotype data.", u'Functional metagenomic analyses commonly involve a normalization step, where measured levels of genes or pathways are converted into relative abundances. Here, we demonstrate that this normalization scheme introduces marked biases both across and within human microbiome samples and systematically identify various sample- and gene-specific properties that contribute to these biases. We introduce an alternative normalization paradigm, MUSiCC, which combines universal single-copy genes with machine learning methods to correct these biases and to obtain a more accurate and biologically meaningful measure of gene abundances. Finally, we demonstrate that MUSiCC significantly improves downstream discovery of functional shifts in the microbiome. \nMUSiCC is available at http://elbo.gs.washington.edu/software.html.', u'We studied the V exons of 14 rodent species obtained from whole genome sequencing (WGS) datasets. Compared to other mammals, we found an increase in the number of  immunoglobulin (IG) V genes in the heavy (IGH) and kappa chain (IGK) loci.  We provide evidence for a reduction genes in lambda chain (IGL) locus,  disappearing entirely in one of the species (Dipodomys ordii). We show relationships amongst the V genes of the T-cell receptors (TR) found in primates, possessing ortholog sequences between them. As compared with other mammals, there is an increase in the number of TRAV genes within rodents. Such an increase within this locus is caused by duplication events  involving a few putative V genes. This duplication phenomenon does not occur in the TRBV locus. In those species that underwent an expansion of TRAV genes, we found that they also have a correspondingly larger number of MHC Class I genes.  The results suggest that selective pressures have conditioned the expansion of V genomic repertoire the TRA,  IGK and IGH loci during the  diversification process of rodents.', u'The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is one of the most widely used techniques in molecular biology. In combination with High Throughput Sequencing (HTS), PCR is widely used to quantify transcript abundance for RNA-seq and especially in the context of analysis of T cell and B cell receptor repertoires. In this study, we combine molecular DNA barcoding with HTS to quantify PCR output from individual target molecules. Our results demonstrate that the PCR process exhibits very significant unexpected heterogeneity, which is independent of the sequence of the primers or target, and independent of bulk experimental conditions. The mechanistic origin of this heterogeneity is not clear, but simulations suggest that it must derive from inherited differences between different DNA molecules within the reaction. The results illustrate that single molecule barcoding is important in order to derive reproducible quantitative results from any protocol which combines PCR with HTS.', u'The recognition of cryptic species represents one of the major challenges in current taxonomy and affects our understanding of global diversity. In practice, the process from discovery to acceptance in the scientific community can take an extensive length of time. A prime example is the traditionally difficult taxonomy of the cryptic bumblebee species belonging to the Bombus lucorum-complex. The status of the three European species in the group - Bombus lucorum and the closely related Bombus cryptarum and Bombus magnus - has recently become widely accepted, primarily due to investigations of nucleotide sequences and marking pheromones. In contrast, doubts prevail concerning the validity of species identification based on morphology. As a consequence, our knowledge of the species is muddled in a mire of unreliable and confusing literature data from a large number of authors over the centuries. To clarify this issue, this paper provides a recapitulation of the historical literature and highlights the milestones in the process of species recognition. Further, the possibility of a morphologically based species identification is discussed in the context of new molecular data. Finally, this review outlines the current challenges and provides directions for future issues.', u'Carbohydrate polymers are ubiquitous in biological systems and their roles are highly diverse, ranging from energy storage over mechanical stabilization to mediating cell-cell or cell-protein interactions. The functional diversity is mirrored by a chemical diversity that results from the high flexibility of how different sugar monomers can be arranged into linear, branched or cyclic polymeric structures.\nMathematical models describing biochemical processes on polymers are faced with various difficulties. First, polymer-active enzymes are often specific to some local configuration within the polymer but are indifferent to other features. That is they are potentially active on a large variety of different chemical compounds, meaning that polymers of different size and structure simultaneously compete for enzymes. Second, especially large polymers interact with each other and form\nwater-insoluble phases that restrict or exclude the formation of enzyme-substrate complexes. This heterogeneity of the reaction system has to be taken into account by explicitly considering processes at the, often complex, surface of the polymer matrix. We review recent approaches to theoretically describe polymer biochemical systems.  All attempts address a particular challenge, which we discuss in more detail. We emphasise a recent attempt which draws novel analogies between polymer biochemistry and statistical thermodynamics and illustrate how this parallel leads to novel insights about non-uniform polymer reactant mixtures. Finally, we discuss the future challenges of the young and growing field of theoretical polymer biochemistry.', u'Identification of the genomic regions that regulate transcription remains an important open problem.  We have recently shown that global run-on and sequencing (GRO-seq) with enrichment for 5\u2032-capped RNAs reveals patterns of divergent transcription that accurately mark active transcriptional regulatory elements (TREs), including enhancers and promoters.  Here, we demonstrate that active TREs can be identified with comparable accuracy by applying sensitive machine-learning methods to standard GRO-seq and PRO-seq data, allowing TREs to be assayed together with transcription levels, elongation rates, and other transcriptional features, in a single experiment.  Our method, called discriminative Regulatory Element detection from GRO-seq (dREG), summarizes GRO-seq read counts at multiple scales and uses support vector regression to predict active TREs.  The predicted TREs are strongly enriched for marks associated with functional elements, including H3K27ac, transcription factor binding sites, eQTLs, and GWAS-associated SNPs.  Using dREG, we survey TREs in eight cell types and provide new insights into global patterns of TRE assembly and function.', u"Developing methods to reconstruct transmission histories for viral\noutbreaks could provide critical information to support locating sources\nof disease transmission. Phylogenetic methods used to measure the\ndegree of relatedness among sequenced viral samples have proven useful\nin identifying potential outbreak sources. The complex nature of infectious\ndisease, however, makes it difficult to assign a rigorously defined\nquantitative confidence value assessing the likelihood of a true direct\ntransmission event using genetic data alone.\nA new method is presented to calculate a confidence value assessing\nthe likelihood of a transmission event using both phylogenetic inference\nand limited knowledge of incubation and infectious\nduration times. The method is applied to simulations of a foot and\nmouth disease (FMD) outbreak to demonstrate how the combination of\nboth phylogenetic and epidemiology data can be used to strengthen\nthe assessment of the likelihood of direct transmission over methods\nusing just phylogenetic data or infection timing data alone. The method\nis applied to a previous FMD outbreak to identify areas where over\nconfidence in previously inferred direct transmission may exist.\nCombining knowledge from viral evolution and epidemiology within a\nsingle integrated transmission inference framework is an important\napproach to assess the potential likelihood of transmission events and makes\nclear how specific features of a virus' spread through the course\nof an outbreak will directly determine the potential for confidence\nin inferred host transmission links.", u'Bipolar disorder, major depression and schizophrenia are severe brain disorders.  No biological hallmark has been identified for any of these disorders.  Here, we report that abnormal X chromosome inactivation (XCI) often presents in lymphoblastoid cells of female patients with different major psychiatric disorders in the general population.  X chromosome inactivation is well preserved in human lymphoblastoid cells.  XIST, KDM5C, and other X-linked genes are over-expressed in the lymphoblastoid cells of female patients, suggesting an abnormal XCI.  Trimethylation of lysine 27 on histone 3 (H3K27me3) is significantly increased at both XIST and KDM5C gene loci.  We found that XIST and KDM5C expression can be used as a potential diagnostic hallmark for major psychiatric disorders in a large sub-population of female patients.  Preliminary studies also suggest an increased XIST expression in postmortem brains from female patients with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and major depression.  An increased gene dosage from some X-linked genes may contribute to the development of psychiatric disorders, as functional disomy of partial X chromosome have been suggested to cause mental retardation and other developmental abnormalities.  Additionally, patients with Klinefelter syndrome (XXY) or Triple X syndrome (XXX) frequently display psychiatric disorders due to an extra X chromosome.  Mutation of the KDM5C gene was reported to cause X-linked syndromic mental retardation.  Our studies suggest that abnormal X chromosome inactivation could play a causal role in development of major psychiatric disorders in females.  Correction of abnormal X chromosome inactivation may prevent and/or cure major psychiatric disorders in a sub-population of female patients in the future.', u'Cancer is a dysregulation of apoptosis process a programmed cell death through which the cell number is tightly regulated. Many factors affect apoptosis including tumor genes (TGs). Moreover, several researchers identified TGs and demonstrated their functions in various types of tumors or normal samples. Surprisingly, it has also been indicated that the expression of tumor markers in the development of cancer type is also one of the important target sites for clinical applications. Therefore, integrating tumor genes and tumor markers with experimental evidences might definitely provide valuable information for further investigation of TGs and their crosstalk in cancer. To achieve this objective, we developed a database known as Cancer Gene Marker Database (CGMD) which integrates cancer genes and markers based on experimental background. The major goal of CGMD is to provide: 1) systemic treatment approaches and advancements of different cancer treatments in present scenario; 2) Pooling of different genes and markers with their molecular characterization and involvements in different pathways; 3) Free availability of CGMD at www.cgmd.in. The database consists of 309 genes plus 206 markers and also includes sequences of a list of 40 different human cancers and moreover, all the characterized markers have detailed descriptions in appropriate manner. CGMD extraction is collective and informative by using web resources like National Cancer Institute (NCI) and National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI), UniProtKB, KEGG and EMBOSS. CGMD provides updated literature regarding different cancer annotations and their detail molecular descriptions such as CpG islands, promoters, exons of cancer genes and their active sites, physico-chemical properties and also systematically represented the domains of characterized proteins.', u'We consider a branching particle system where particles reproduce according to the pure birth Yule process with the birth rate L, conditioned on the observed number of particles to be equal n. Particles are assumed to move independently on the real line according to the Brownian motion with the local variance s2. In this paper we treat n particles as a sample of related species. The spatial Brownian motion of a particle describes the development of a trait value of interest (e.g. log-body-size). We propose an unbiased estimator Rn2 of the evolutionary rate r2=s2/L. The estimator Rn2 is proportional to the sample variance Sn2 computed from n trait values. We find an approximate formula for the standard error of Rn2 based on a neat asymptotic relation for the variance of Sn2.', u'Balancing selection maintains advantageous genetic and phenotypic diversity in populations. When selection acts for long evolutionary periods selected polymorphisms may survive species splits and segregate in present-day populations of different species. Here, we investigate the role of long-term balancing selection in the evolution of protein-coding sequences in the Homo-Pan clade. We sequenced the exome of 20 humans, 20 chimpanzees and 20 bonobos and detected eight coding trans-species polymorphisms (trSNPs) that are shared among the three species and have segregated for approximately 14 million years of independent evolution. While the majority of these trSNPs were found in three genes of the MHC cluster, we also uncovered one coding trSNP (rs12088790) in the gene LAD1. All these trSNPs show clustering of sequences by allele rather than by species and also exhibit other signatures of long-term balancing selection, such as segregating at intermediate frequency and lying in a locus with high genetic diversity. Here we focus on the trSNP in LAD1, a gene that encodes for Ladinin-1, a collagenous anchoring filament protein of basement membrane that is responsible for maintaining cohesion at the dermal-epidermal junction; the gene is also an autoantigen responsible for linear IgA disease. This trSNP results in a missense change (Leucine257Proline) and, besides altering the protein sequence, is associated with changes in gene expression of LAD1.', u'Embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma (ERMS), a malignant soft tissue sarcoma, is one of the most common paediatric cancers. Certain ERMS tumours are associated with the DICER1 syndrome, a distinctive tumour predisposition syndrome caused by germ-line mutations in the microRNA-maturation pathway gene, DICER1. In addition to germ-line DICER1 mutations, highly characteristic somatic mutations have been identified in several DICER1-associated tumour types. These so-called "hotspot" mutations affect highly conserved amino acid residues central to the catalytic activity of the DICER1 ribonuclease IIIb domain.\n\nPrimary ovarian ERMS (oERMS) is extremely rare. We present a case of a 6-year-old girl with an oERMS found to harbour two mutations in DICER1. In addition to the oERMS, the girl also exhibited other DICER1 phenotypes, including cystic nephroma (CN) and multinodular goitre. Somatic investigations of the CN revealed the presence of a hotspot DICER1 mutation different from that in the oERMS. Of particular interest is the CN presented at the age of 12 years, which is much older than previously reported age range of susceptibility (birth to four years of age). \n\nThis report documents both germ-line and highly characteristic somatic DICER1 mutations in a case of oERMS, adding to the expanding spectrum of rare childhood tumours in the DICER1 syndrome.', u'We consider a stochastic evolutionary  model for a phenotype developing amongst n  related species with unknown phylogeny. The unknown tree is modelled by a Yule process conditioned on n contemporary nodes.\nThe trait value is assumed to evolve along lineages as an Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process. As a result, the trait values of  the n species form a sample with dependent observations. We establish three limit theorems for the sample mean corresponding to three domains for  the adaptation rate. In the case of fast adaptation, we show that for large n the normalized sample mean is approximately normally distributed.\nUsing these limit theorems, we develop novel confidence interval formulae for the optimal \ntrait value.', u'An ongoing debate in evolutionary biology is whether phenotypic change occurs predominantly around the time of speciation or whether it instead accumulates gradually over time. In this work I propose a general framework incorporating both types of change, quantify the effects of speciational change via the correlation between species and attribute the proportion of change to each type. I discuss\nresults of parameter estimation of Hominoid body size in this light. I derive mathematical formulae related to this problem, the probability generating functions of the number of speciation events along a randomly drawn lineage and from the most recent common ancestor of two randomly chosen tip species for a conditioned Yule tree. Additionally I obtain in closed form the variance  of the distance from the root to the most recent common ancestor of two randomly chosen tip species.', u'We find that the topologies of real world networks, such as those formed within human societies, by the Internet, or among cellular proteins, are dominated by the mode of the interactions considered among the individuals. Consequently, a major dichotomy in previously studied networks arises from modeling networks in terms of pairwise versus group tasks. The former often intrinsically give rise to scale-free, disassortative, hierarchical networks, whereas the latter often give rise to broad-scale, assortative, nonhierarchical networks. These dependencies explain contrasting observations among previous topological analyses of real world complex systems. We also observe this trend in systems with natural hierarchies, in which alternate representations of the same networks, but which capture different levels of the hierarchy, manifest these signature topological differences. For example, in both the Internet and cellular proteomes, networks of lower-level system components (routers within domains or proteins within biological processes) are assortative and nonhierarchical, whereas networks of upper-level system components (internet domains or biological processes) are disassortative and hierarchical. Our results demonstrate that network topologies of complex systems must be interpreted in light of their hierarchical natures and interaction types.', u'Trial-to-trial variability and spontaneous activity of cortical recordings have been suggested to reflect intrinsic noise. This view is currently challenged by mounting evidence for structure in these phenomena: Trial-to-trial variability decreases following stimulus onset and can be predicted by previous spontaneous activity. This spontaneous activity is similar in magnitude and structure to evoked activity and can predict decisions. All of the observed neuronal properties described above can be accounted for, at an abstract computational level, by the sampling-hypothesis, according to which response variability reflects stimulus uncertainty. However, a mechanistic explanation at the level of neural circuit dynamics is still missing.\n\nIn this study, we demonstrate that all of these phenomena can be accounted for by a noise-free self-organizing recurrent neural network model (SORN). It combines spike-timing dependent plasticity (STDP) and homeostatic mechanisms in a deterministic network of excitatory and inhibitory McCulloch-Pitts neurons. The network self-organizes to spatio-temporally varying input sequences.\n\nWe find that the key properties of neural variability mentioned above develop in this model as the network learns to perform sampling-like inference. Importantly, the model shows high trial-to-trial variability although it is fully deterministic. This suggests that the trial-to-trial variability in neural recordings may not reflect intrinsic noise. Rather, it may reflect a deterministic approximation of sampling-like learning and inference. The simplicity of the model suggests that these correlates of the sampling theory are canonical properties of recurrent networks that learn with a combination of STDP and homeostatic plasticity mechanisms.', u'We conducted a genome-wide association analysis of 7 subfractions of low density lipoproteins (LDLs) and 3 subfractions of intermediate density lipoproteins (IDLs) measured by gradient gel electrophoresis, and their response to statin treatment, in 1868 individuals of European ancestry from the Pharmacogenomics and Risk of Cardiovascular Disease study. Our analyses identified four previously-implicated\nloci (SORT1, APOE, LPA, and CETP) as containing variants that are very strongly associated with lipoprotein subfractions (log10 Bayes Factor > 15). Subsequent conditional analyses suggest that three of these (APOE, LPA and CETP) likely harbor multiple independently associated SNPs. Further, while different variants typically showed different characteristic patterns of association with combinations of subfractions, the two SNPs in CETP show strikingly similar patterns - both in our original data and in a replication cohort - consistent with a common underlying molecular mechanism. Notably, the CETP variants are very strongly associated with LDL subfractions, despite showing no association with total LDLs in our study, illustrating the potential value of the more detailed phenotypic measurements. In contrast with these strong subfraction associations, genetic association analysis of subfraction response to statins showed much weaker signals (none exceeding log10 Bayes Factor of 6). However, two SNPs (in APOE and LPA) previously-reported to be associated with LDL statin response do show some modest evidence for association in our data, and the subfraction response profiles at the LPA SNP are consistent with the LPA association, with response likely being due primarily to resistance of Lp(a) particles to statin therapy. An additional important feature of our analysis is that, unlike most previous analyses of multiple related phenotypes, we analyzed the subfractions jointly, rather than one at a time. Comparisons of our multivariate analyses with standard univariate analyses demonstrate that multivariate analyses can substantially increase power to detect associations. Software implementing our multivariate analysis methods is available at http://stephenslab.uchicago.edu/software.html.', u'Recent positive selection can increase the frequency of an advantageous mutant rapidly enough that a relatively long ancestral haplotype will be remained intact around it. We present a hidden Markov model (HMM) to identify such haplotype structures. With HMM identified haplotype structures, a population genetic model for the extent of ancestral haplotypes is then adopted for parameter inference of the selection intensity and the allele age. Simulations show that this method can detect selection under a wide range of conditions and has higher power than the existing frequency spectrum-based method. In addition, it provides good estimate of the selection coefficients and allele ages for strong selection. The method analyzes large data sets in a reasonable amount of running time. This method is applied to HapMap III data for a genome scan, and identifies a list of candidate regions putatively under recent positive selection. It is also applied to several genes known to be under recent positive selection, including the LCT, KITLG and TYRP1 genes in Northern Europeans, and OCA2 in East Asians, to estimate their allele ages and selection coefficients.', u'The dramatic reduction in sequencing costs has resulted in many initiatives to sequence certain organisms and populations.   These initiatives aim to not only sequence and assemble genomes but also to perform a more broader analysis of the population structure.  As part of the Anopheline Genome Consortium, which has a vested interest in studying anpopheline mosquitoes, we developed novel methods and tools to further the communities goals.  We provide a brief description of these methods and tools as well as assess the contributions that each offers to the broader study of comparative genomics.', u'Allele-specific sequencing reads provide a powerful signal for identifying molecular quantitative trait loci (QTLs), however they are challenging to analyze and prone to technical artefacts. Here we describe WASP, a suite of tools for unbiased allele-specific read mapping and discovery of molecular QTLs. Using simulated reads, RNA-seq reads and ChIP-seq reads, we demonstrate that our approach has a low error rate and is far more powerful than existing QTL mapping approaches.', u'1. Microbes are critical components of ecosystems and vital to the services they provide. The essential role of microbes is due to high levels of functional diversity, which are, however, not always mirrored in morphological differentiation hampering their taxonomic identification. In addition, the small size of microbes hinders the measurement of morphological and behavioural traits at the individual level, as well as interactions between individuals.\n2. Recent advances in microbial community genetics and genomics, flow cytometry and digital image analysis are promising approaches, however they miss out on a very important aspect of populations and communities: the behaviour of individuals. Video analysis complements these methods by providing in addition to abundance and trait measurements, detailed behavioural information, capturing dynamic processes such as movement, and hence has the potential to describe the interactions between individuals.\n3. We introduce bemovi, a package using R\u2013the statistical computing environment\u2013and the free image analysis software ImageJ. Bemovi is an automated digital video processing and analysis work flow to extract abundance and morphological and movement data for numerous individuals on a video, hence characterizing a population or community by multiple traits. Through a set of functions, bemovi identifies individuals present in a video and reconstruct their movement trajectories through space and time, merges measurements from all treated videos into a single database to which information on experimental conditions is added, readily available for further analysis in R.\n4. We illustrate the validity, precision and accuracy of the method for experimental multi-species communities of protists in aquatic microcosms. We show the high correspondence between manual and automatic counts of individuals and illustrate how simultaneous time series of abundance, morphology and behaviour are constructed. We demonstrate how the data from videos can be used in combination with supervised machine learning algorithms to automatically classify individuals according to the species they belong to, and that information on movement behaviour can substantially improve the predictive ability and helps to distinguish morphologically similar species. In principle, bemovi should be able to extract from videos information about other types of organism, including microbes, so long as the individuals move relatively fast compared to their background.', u'Evolutionary developmental biology has grown historically from the capacity to relate patterns of evolution in anatomy to patterns of evolution of expression of specific genes, whether between very distantly related species, or very closely related species or populations. Scaling up such studies by taking advantage of modern transcriptomics brings promising improvements, allowing us to estimate the overall impact and molecular mechanisms of convergence, constraint or innovation in anatomy and development. But it also presents major challenges, including the computational definitions of anatomical homology and of organ function, the criteria for the comparison of developmental stages, the annotation of transcriptomics data to proper anatomical and developmental terms, and the statistical methods to compare transcriptomic data between species to highlight significant conservation or changes. In this article, we review these challenges, and the ongoing efforts to address them, which are emerging from bioinformatics work on ontologies, evolutionary statistics, and data curation, with a focus on their implementation in the context of the development of our database Bgee (http://bgee.org).', u'RNA performs a diverse array of important functions across all cellular life. These functions include important roles in translation, building translational machinery and maturing messenger RNA. More recent discoveries include the miRNAs and bacterial sRNAs that regulate gene expression, the thermosensors, riboswitches and other cis-regulatory elements that help prokaryotes sense their environment and eukaryotic piRNAs that suppress transposition. However, there can be a long period between the initial discovery of a RNA and determining its function. We present a bioinformatic approach to characterise RNA motifs, which are the central building blocks of RNA structure. These motifs can, in some instances, provide researchers with functional hypotheses for uncharacterised RNAs. Moreover, we introduce a new profile-based database of RNA motifs - RMfam - and illustrate its application for investigating the evolution and functional characterisation of RNA.\n\nAll the data and scripts associated with this work is available from: https://github.com/ppgardne/RMfam', u'We describe a method for sequencing full-length 16S rRNA gene amplicons using the high throughput Illumina MiSeq platform. The resulting sequences have about 100-fold higher accuracy than standard Illumina reads and are chimera filtered using information from a single molecule dual tagging scheme that boosts the signal available for chimera detection. We demonstrate that the data provides fine scale phylogenetic resolution not available from Illumina amplicon methods targeting smaller variable regions of the 16S rRNA gene.', u'Recent technological advances have created challenges for geneticists and a need to adapt to a wide range of new bioinformatics tools and an expanding wealth of publicly available data (e.g. mutation databases, software). This wide range of methods and a diversity of file formats used in sequence analysis is a significant issue, with a considerable amount of time spent before anyone can even attempt to analyse the genetic basis of human disorders. Another point to consider is although many possess "just enough" knowledge to analyse their data, they do not make full use of the tools and databases that are available and also do not know how their data was created. The primary aim of this review is to document some of the key approaches and provide an analysis schema to make the analysis process more efficient and reliable in the context of discovering highly penetrant causal mutations/genes. This review will also compare the methods used to identify highly penetrant variants when data is obtained from consanguineous individuals as opposed to non-consanguineous; and when Mendelian disorders are analysed as opposed to common-complex disorders.', u'The interaction between TACC3 (transforming acidic coiled coil protein 3) and the microtubule polymerase ch-TOG (colonic, hepatic tumor overexpressed gene) is evolutionarily conserved. Loading of TACC3\u2013ch-TOG onto mitotic spindle microtubules requires the phosphorylation of TACC3 by Aurora-A kinase and the subsequent interaction of TACC3 with clathrin to form a microtubule-binding surface. Recent work indicates that TACC3 can track the plus-ends of microtubules and modulate microtubule dynamics in non-dividing cells via its interaction with ch-TOG. Whether there is a pool of TACC3\u2013ch-TOG that is independent of clathrin in human cells, and what is the function of this pool, are open questions. Here, we describe the molecular interaction between TACC3 and ch-TOG that permits TACC3 recruitment to the plus-ends of microtubules. This TACC3\u2013ch-TOG pool is independent of EB1, EB3, Aurora-A phosphorylation and binding to clathrin. We also describe the distinct combinatorial subcellular pools of TACC3, ch-TOG and clathrin. TACC3 is often described as a centrosomal protein, but we show that there is no significant population of TACC3 at centrosomes. The delineation of distinct protein pools reveals a simplified view of how these proteins are organized and controlled by post-translational modification.', u'The characterization of functional elements in genomes relies on the identification of the footprints of natural selection. In this quest, taking into account neutral evolutionary processes such as mutation and genetic drift is crucial because these forces can generate patterns that may obscure or mimic signatures of selection. In mammals, and probably in many eukaryotes, another such confounding factor called GC-Biased Gene Conversion (gBGC) has been documented. This mechanism generates patterns identical to what is expected under selection for higher GC-content, specifically in highly recombining genomic regions. Recent results have suggested that a mysterious selective force favouring higher GC-content exists in Bacteria but the possibility that it could be gBGC has been excluded. Here, we show that gBGC is probably at work in most if not all bacterial species. First we find a consistent positive relationship between the GC-content of a gene and evidence of intra-genic recombination throughout a broad spectrum of bacterial clades. Second, we show that the evolutionary force responsible for this pattern is acting independently from selection on codon usage, and could potentially interfere with selection in favor of optimal AU-ending codons. A comparison with data from human populations shows that the intensity of gBGC in Bacteria is comparable to what has been reported in mammals. We propose that gBGC is not restricted to sexual Eukaryotes but also widespread among Bacteria and could therefore be an ancestral feature of cellular organisms. We argue that if gBGC occurs in bacteria, it can account for previously unexplained observations, such as the apparent non-equilibrium of base substitution patterns and the heterogeneity of gene composition within bacterial genomes. Because gBGC produces patterns similar to positive selection, it is essential to take this process into account when studying the evolutionary forces at work in bacterial genomes.', u"The asymmetric distribution of cytoplasmic components by mRNA localization is critical for eukaryotic cells and affects large numbers of transcripts. How such global subcellular localization of mRNAs is regulated is still unknown. We combined transcriptomics and systematic imaging to determine tissue-specific expression and subcellular localizations of 5862 mRNAs during Drosophila oogenesis. While the transcriptome is stable and alternative splicing and polyadenylation is rare, cytoplasmic localization of mRNAs is widespread. Localized mRNAs have distinct gene features and diverge in expression level, 3'UTR length and sequence conservation. We show that intracellular localization of mRNAs depends on an intact microtubule cytoskeleton and that specifically the posterior enrichment requires the localization of oskar mRNA to the posterior cortex. Using cross-tissue comparison we revealed that the localization landscape differs substantially between epithelial, germline and embryonic cells and the localization status of mRNAs also changes considerably within the oocyte over the course of oogenesis.", u'Genetically identical cells in microbial populations often exhibit a remarkable degree of phenotypic heterogeneity even in homogenous environments.  While such heterogeneity is often thought to be a bet-hedging strategy against unpredictable environments, evolutionary game theory also predicts phenotypic heterogeneity as a stable response to evolutionary "hawk-dove" games, in which rare strategies are favored over common ones.  Here we provide experimental evidence for this game theoretic explanation in the context of the well-studied yeast GAL network.  In an environment containing the two sugars glucose and galactose, the yeast GAL network displays stochastic bimodal activation. We show that genetic mutants playing the "pure" strategies of GAL-ON or GAL-OFF can each invade the opposite strategy when rare, indicating a hawk-dove game between the two. Consistent with the Nash equilibrium of an evolutionary game, the stable mix of pure strategists does not necessarily maximize the growth of the overall population. We also find that the wild type GAL network can invade populations of both pure strategists while remaining uninvasible by either. Taken together, our results provide experimental evidence that evolutionary hawk-dove games between identical cells can explain the phenotypic heterogeneity found in clonal microbial populations.', u'Omics technologies enable unbiased investigation of biological systems through massively parallel \nsequence acquisition or molecular measurements, bringing the life sciences into the era of Big Data. A \ncentral challenge posed by such omics datasets is how to transform this data into biological knowledge. \nFor example, how to use this data to answer questions such as: which functional pathways are involved \nin cell differentiation? Which genes should we target to stop cancer? Network analysis is a powerful and \ngeneral approach to solve this problem consisting of two fundamental stages, network reconstruction and \nnetwork interrogation. Herein, we provide an overview of network analysis including a step by step guide \non how to perform and use this approach to investigate a biological question. In this guide, we also \ninclude the software packages that we and others employ for each of the steps of a network analysis \nworkflow.', u'In Drosophila larvae, growth and developmental timing are regulated by nutrition in a tightly coordinated fashion.  The networks that couple these processes are far from understood. Here, we show that the intestine responds to nutrient availability by regulating production of a circulating lipoprotein-associated form of the signaling protein Hedgehog (Hh).  Levels of circulating Hh tune the rates of growth and developmental timing in a coordinated fashion.  Circulating Hh signals to the fat body to control larval growth. It regulates developmental timing by controlling ecdysteroid production in the prothoracic gland.  Circulating Hh is especially important during starvation, when it is also required for mobilization of fat body triacylglycerol (TAG) stores. Thus, we demonstrate that Hh, previously known only for its local morphogenetic functions, also acts as a lipoprotein-associated endocrine hormone, coordinating the response of multiple tissues to nutrient availability.', u'Based on a survey of the literature, we attempt to answer Frequently Asked Questions on issues of cortical uniformity vs. non-uniformity, the neural mechanisms of symbolic variable binding, and other issues highlighted in (Marcus, Marblestone and Dean. "The Atoms of Neural Computation". Science. 31 October 2014. Vol 346. Issue 6209).', u'Traditionally, the process of domestication is assumed to be initiated by people, involve few individuals and rely on reproductive isolation between wild and domestic forms. However, an emerging zooarcheological consensus depicts animal domestication as a long-term process without reproductive isolation or strong intentional selection. Here, we ask whether pig domestication followed a traditional linear model, or a complex, reticulate model as predicted by zooarcheologists. To do so, we fit models of domestication to whole genome data from over 100 wild and domestic pigs. We found that the assumptions of traditional models, such as reproductive isolation and strong domestication bottlenecks, are incompatible with the genetic data and provide support for the zooarcheological theory of a complex domestication process. In particular, gene-flow from wild to domestic pigs was a ubiquitous feature of the domestication of pigs. In addition, we show that despite gene-flow, the genomes of domestic pigs show strong signatures of selection at loci that affect behaviour and morphology. Specifically, our results are consistent with independent parallel sweeps in two independent domestication areas (China and Anatolia) at loci linked to morphological traits. We argue that recurrent selection for domestic traits likely counteracted the homogenising effect of gene-flow from wild boars and created "islands of domestication" in the genome. Overall, our results suggest that genomic approaches that allow for more complex models of domestication to be embraced should be employed. The results from these studies will have significant ramifications for studies that attempt to infer the origin of domesticated animals.', u'Clozapine is the only evidence-based therapy for treatment resistant schizophrenia, but it induces agranulocytosis, a rare but potentially fatal haematological adverse reaction, in less than 1% of users. To improve safety, the drug is subject to mandatory haematological monitoring throughout the course of treatment, which is burdensome for the patient and one of the main reasons clozapine is underused. Therefore, a pharmacogenetic test is clinically useful if it identifies a group of patients for whom the agranulocytosis risk is low enough to alleviate monitoring requirements. Assuming a genotypic marker stratifies patients into a high risk and a low risk group, we explore the relationship between test sensitivity, group size and agranulocytosis risk. High sensitivity minimizes the agranulocytosis risk in the low risk group and is essential for clinical utility, in particular in combination with a small high risk group.', u'Making meaningful inferences from phylogenetic comparative data requires a meaningful model of trait evolution. It is thus important to determine whether the model is appropriate for the data and the question being addressed. One way to assess this is to ask whether the model provides a good statistical explanation for the variation in the data. To date, researchers have focused primarily on the explanatory power of a model relative to alternative models. Methods have been developed to assess the adequacy, or absolute explanatory power, of phylogenetic trait models but these have been restricted to specific models or questions. Here we present a general statistical framework for assessing the adequacy of phylogenetic trait models. We use our approach to evaluate the statistical performance of commonly used trait models on 337 comparative datasets covering three key Angiosperm functional traits. In general, the models we tested often provided poor statistical explanations for the evolution of these traits. This was true for many different groups and at many different scales. Whether such statistical inadequacy will qualitatively alter inferences draw from comparative datasets will depend on the context. Regardless, assessing model adequacy can provide interesting biological insights -- how and why a model fails to describe variation in a dataset gives us clues about what evolutionary processes may have driven trait evolution across time.', u'Spontaneous and sensory-evoked cortical activity is highly state-dependent, yet relatively little is known about transitions between distinct waking states. Patterns of activity in mouse V1 differ dramatically between quiescence and locomotion, but this difference could be explained by either motor feedback or a change in arousal levels. We recorded single cells and local field potentials from area V1 in mice head-fixed on a running wheel and monitored pupil diameter to assay arousal. Using naturally occurring and induced state transitions, we dissociated arousal and locomotion effects in V1. Arousal suppressed spontaneous firing and strongly altered the temporal patterning of population activity. Moreover, heightened arousal increased the signal-to-noise ratio of visual responses and reduced noise correlations. In contrast, increased firing in anticipation of and during movement was attributable to locomotion effects. Our findings suggest complementary roles of arousal and locomotion in promoting functional flexibility in cortical circuits.', u'While the innate immune system of insects is well-studied, comparatively little is known\nabout how other arthropods defend themselves against infection. We have characterised key\nimmune components in the genomes of five chelicerates, a myriapod and a crustacean. We\nfound clear traces of an ancient origin of innate immunity, with some arthropods having Tolllike\nreceptors and C3-complement factors that are more closely related in sequence or\nstructure to vertebrates than other arthropods. Across the arthropods some components of\nthe immune system, like the Toll signalling pathway, are highly conserved. However, there is\nalso remarkable diversity. The chelicerates apparently lack the Imd signalling pathway and\nBGRPs\u2013a key class of pathogen recognition receptors. Many genes have large copy number\nvariation across species, and this may sometimes be accompanied by changes in function. For\nexample, peptidoglycan recognition proteins (PGRPs) have frequently lost their catalytic\nactivity and switch between secreted and intracellular forms. There has been extensive\nduplication of the cellular immune receptor Dscam in several species, which may be an\nalternative way to generate the high diversity that produced by alternative splicing in insects.\nOur results provide a detailed analysis of the immune systems of several important groups of\nanimals and lay the foundations for functional work on these groups.', u'We characterized by RNA-seq the transcriptional profiles of a large and heterogeneous collection of mouse tissues, augmenting the mouse transcriptome with thousands of novel transcript candidates. Comparison with transcriptome profiles obtained in human cell lines reveals substantial conservation of transcriptional programs, and uncovers a distinct class of genes with levels of expression across cell types and species, that have been constrained early in vertebrate evolution. This core set of genes capture a substantial and constant fraction of the transcriptional output of mammalian cells, and participates in basic functional and structural housekeeping processes common to all cell types. Perturbation of these constrained genes is associated with significant phenotypes including embryonic lethality and cancer. Evolutionary constraint in gene expression levels is not reflected in the conservation of the genomic sequences, but it is associated with strong and conserved epigenetic marking, as well as to a characteristic post-transcriptional regulatory program in which sub-cellular localization and alternative splicing play comparatively large roles.', u'Background: Because species-specific gene expression is driven by species-specific regulation, understanding the relationship between sequence and function of the regulatory regions in different species will help elucidate how differences among species arise. Despite active experimental and computational research, the relationships among sequence, conservation, and function are still poorly understood.\n\nResults: We compared transcription factor occupied segments (TFos) for 116 human and 35 mouse TFs in 546 human and 125 mouse cell types and tissues from the Human and the Mouse ENCODE projects. We based the map between human and mouse TFos on a one-to-one nucleotide cross-species mapper, bnMapper, that utilizes whole genome alignments (WGA). \nOur analysis shows that TFos are under evolutionary constraint, but a substantial portion (25.1% of mouse and 25.85% of human on average) of the TFos does not have a homologous sequence on the other species; this portion varies among cell types and TFs. Furthermore, 47.67% and 57.01% of the homologous TFos sequence shows binding activity on the other species for human and mouse respectively. However, 79.87% and 69.22% is repurposed such that it binds the same TF in different cells or different TFs in the same cells. Remarkably, within the set of TFos not showing conservation of occupancy, the corresponding genome regions in the other species are preferred locations of novel TFos. These events suggest that a substantial amount of functional regulatory sequences is exapted from other biochemically active genomic material.\n\nDespite substantial repurposing of TFos, we did not find substantial changes in their predicted target genes, suggesting that CRMs buffer evolutionary events allowing little or no change in the TF \u2013 target gene associations. Thus, the small portion of TFos with strictly conserved occupancy underestimates the degree of conservation of regulatory interactions.\n\nConclusion: We mapped regulatory sequences from an extensive number of TFs and cell types between human and mouse. A comparative analysis of this correspondence unveiled the extent of the shared regulatory sequence across TFs and cell types under study. Importantly, a large part of the shared regulatory sequence repurposed on the other species. This sequence, fueled by turnover events, provides a strong case for exaptation in regulatory elements.', u'A major challenge of modern Biology is elucidating the functional consequences of natural mutations. While we have a good understanding of the effects of lab-induced mutations on the molecular- and organismal-level phenotypes, the study of natural mutations has lagged behind. In this work, we explore the phenotypic space and the evolutionary history of a previously identified adaptive transposable element insertion. We first combined several tests that capture different signatures of selection to show that there is evidence of positive selection in the regions flanking FBti0019386 insertion. We then explored several phenotypes related to known phenotypic effects of nearby genes, and having plausible connections to fitness variation in nature. We found that flies with FBti0019386 insertion had a shorter developmental time and were more sensitive to stress, which are likely to be the adaptive effect and the cost of selection of this mutation, respectively. Interestingly, these phenotypic effects are not consistent with a role of FBti0019386 in temperate adaptation as has been previously suggested. Indeed, a global analysis of the population frequency of FBti0019386 showed that clinal frequency patterns are found in North America and Australia but not in Europe. Finally, we showed that FBti0019386 is associated with down-regulation of sra most likely because it induces the formation of heterochromatin by recruiting HP1a protein. Overall, our integrative approach allowed us to shed light on the evolutionary history, the relevant fitness effects and the likely molecular mechanisms of an adaptive mutation and highlights the complexity of natural genetic variants.', u'Terminal-repeat retrotransposons in miniature (TRIMs) are structurally similar to long terminal repeat (LTR) retrotransposons except that they are extremely small and difficult to identify. Thus far, only a few TRIMs have been characterized in the euphyllophytes and the evolutionary and biological impacts and transposition mechanism of TRIMs are poorly understood. In this study, we combined de novo and homology-based methods to annotate TRIMs in 48 plant genome sequences, spanning land plants to algae. We found 156 TRIM families, 146 previously undescribed. Notably, we identified the first TRIMs in a lycophyte and non-vascular plants. The majority of the TRIM families were highly conserved and shared within and between plant families. Even though TRIMs contribute only a small fraction of any plant genome, they are enriched in or near genes and may play important roles in gene evolution. TRIMs were frequently organized into tandem arrays we called TA-TRIMs, another unique feature distinguishing them from LTR retrotransposons. Importantly, we identified putative autonomous retrotransposons that may mobilize specific TRIM elements and detected very recent transpositions of a TRIM in O. sativa. Overall, this comprehensive analysis of TRIMs across the entire plant kingdom provides insight into the evolution and conservation of TRIMs and the functional roles they may play in gene evolution.', u'Various structures in the brain contain many important clues to the brain?s development and function. Among these, the microscopic organization of neural tissue is of particular interest since such organization has direct potential to affect the formation of local synaptic connectivity between axons and dendrites, serving as an important factor affecting the brain?s development. While the organization of the brain at large and intermediate scales had been well studied, the organization of neural tissue at micrometer scales remains largely unknown. In particular, at present it is not known what specific structures exist in neuropil at micrometer scales, what effect such structures have on formation of synaptic connectivity, and what processes shape the micrometer-scale organization of neuropil. In this work, we present an analysis of recent electron microscopy reconstructions of blocks of neuropil tissue from rat s. radiatum of hippocampal CA1 to provide insights into these questions. We propose a new statistical method for systematically analyzing the small-scale organization of neuropil based on an adaptation of the approach of radial distribution functions from statistical physics. Our results show that the micrometer-scale organization of hippocampal CA1 neuropil can be viewed as a disordered arrangement of axonal and dendritic processes without significant small-scale positional coordinations. We observe several deviations from this picture in the distributions of glia and dendritic spines. Finally, we study the relationship between local synaptic connectivity and the small-scale organization of neuropil.', u'Restoration of the native eastern oyster (Crassostrea virginica) has been severely hindered by the dwindling supply and rising costs of fossil and new oyster shell for use in reef restoration. Consequently, emphasis has shifted to the use of alternative oyster reef materials, which need to be tested for their effectiveness as settlement substrate. Furthermore, low recruitment of wild larvae has also impeded restoration, indicating a need to assess the potential of field setting of cultured larvae. We experimentally examined oyster settlement, growth and survival on unconsolidated oyster shell, oyster shell embedded vertically in concrete, and concrete Oyster Castles\xae in field and mesocosm experiments. In addition, we examined settlement success of cultured larvae in the mesocosm experiment. In the field experiment, juvenile recruitment was 3x higher on castles and unconsolidated shell than on embedded shell. Castles retained 4x the number of oysters and hosted 5x the biomass than embedded shell, and retained 1.5x the oysters and hosted 3x the biomass than unconsolidated shell. The proportion of live oyster recruits on castles was 1.5x that on both embedded and unconsolidated shell. In the mesocosm experiment (90-d post-larval deployment), the castles recruited, retained, and hosted an oyster biomass 4x higher than that of unconsolidated and embedded shell. This study confirms that artificial reef materials such as Oyster Castles\xae are suitable alternative substrates for oyster restoration, and remote setting of larvae onto conditioned substrate can be effective under controlled environmental conditions. Future restoration efforts should consider use of alternative reef substrates and field setting of larvae to maximize oyster recruitment, while simultaneously minimizing the cost of reef restoration.', u'Plant genomes are large, intron-rich and present a wide range of variation in coding region G+C content. Concerning coding regions, a sort of syndrome can be described in plants: the increase in G+C content is associated with both the increase in heterogeneity among genes within a genome and the increase in variation across genes. Taking advantage of the large number of genes composing plant genomes and the wide range of variation in gene intron number, we performed a comprehensive survey of the patterns of variation in G+C content at different scales from the nucleotide level to the genome scale in two species Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa, comparing the patterns in genes with different intron numbers. In both species, we observed a pervasive effect of gene intron number and location along genes on G+C content, codon and amino acid frequencies suggesting that in both species, introns have a barrier effect structuring G+C content along genes. In external gene regions (located upstream first or downstream last intron), species-specific factors are shaping G+C content while in internal gene regions (surrounded by introns), G+C content is constrained to remain within a range common to both species. In rice, introns appear as a major determinant of gene G+C content while in A. thaliana introns have a weaker but significant effect. The structuring effect of introns in both species is susceptible to explain the G+C content syndrome observed in plants.', u'Humans are unique both in their cognitive abilities and in the extent of cooperation in\nlarge groups of unrelated individuals. How our species evolved high intelligence in spite of\nvarious costs of having a large brain is perplexing. Equally puzzling is how our ancestors\nmanaged to overcome the collective action problem and evolve strong innate preferences for\ncooperative behavior. Here I theoretically study the evolution of social-cognitive competen-\ncies as driven by selection emerging from the need to produce public goods in games against\nnature or in direct competition with other groups. I use collaborative ability in collective\nactions as a proxy for social-cognitive competencies. My results suggest that collaborative\nability is more likely to evolve first by between-group conflicts and then later be utilized and\nimproved in games against nature. If collaborative abilities remain low, the species is pre-\ndicted to become genetically dimorphic with a small proportion of individuals contributing\nto public goods and the rest free-riding. Evolution of collaborative ability creates conditions\nfor the subsequent evolution of collaborative communication and cultural learning.', u'Carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) metabolism are critical to plant growth and development and at the basis of yield and adaptation. We have applied high throughput metabolite analyses to over 12,000 diverse field grown samples from the maize nested association mapping population. This allowed us to identify natural variation controlling the levels of twelve key C and N metabolites, often with single gene resolution. In addition to expected genes like invertases, critical natural variation was identified in key C4 metabolism genes like carbonic anhydrases and a malate transporter. Unlike prior maize studies, extensive pleiotropy was found for C and N metabolites. This integration of field-derived metabolite data with powerful mapping and genomics resources allows dissection of key metabolic pathways, providing avenues for future genetic improvement.', u'One of the major goals in metagenomics is to identify organisms present in the microbial community from a huge set of unknown DNA sequences. This profiling has valuable applications in multiple important areas of medical research such as disease diagnostics. Nevertheless, it is not a simple task, and many approaches that have been developed are slow and depend on the read length of the DNA sequences. Here we introduce an innovative and agile approach which k-mer and Monte Carlo simulation to profile and report abundant organisms present in metagenomic samples and their relative abundance without sequence length dependencies. The program was tested with a simulated metagenomes, and the results show that our approach predicts the organisms in microbial communities and their relative abundance.', u'Animal tissue development relies on precise generation and deployment of specific cell types into tissue sub-structures. Understanding how this process is regulated remains a major challenge of biology. In many tissues, development progresses through a sequence of dividing progenitor cells, each with decreasing potency, that balance their growth and differentiation. Dividing progenitor cells thus face a decision on whether their offspring shall differentiate or self-renew. This results in three possible modes of division (symmetric self-renewing, symmetric differentiating, and asymmetric) all of which have been observed in developing animal tissues. In some instances, the frequencies of occurrence of these division modes are incompatible with the possibility that sibling cells take the decision to differentiate independently of each other. Rather, an excess of symmetric divisions, both proliferating and differentiating, is usually observed in so far no general mechanism by which this fate entanglement takes place has been put forward. Here we propose a simple model of progenitor priming that provides a rationale on how the fate of sibling cells might be linked. Analysis of the model suggests that commitment to the cycle completion of cells primed for differentiation might be the cause of the observed excess of symmetric divisions. The model presented is applicable to a broad range of developmental systems and provides a testing framework to explain the dynamics of cell division and differentiation are related.', u'Bioclimate-driven regression analysis is a widely used approach for modelling ecological niches and zonation. Although the bioclimatic complexity of the European continent is high, a particular combination of 12 climatic and topographic covariates was recently found able to reliably reproduce the ecological zoning of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) for forest resources assessment at pan-European scale, generating the first fuzzy similarity map of FAO ecozones in Europe.\nThe reproducible procedure followed to derive this collection of bioclimatic indices is now presented. It required an integration of data-transformation modules (D-TM) using geospatial tools such as Geographic Information System (GIS) software, and array-based mathematical implementation such as semantic array programming (SemAP). Base variables, intermediate and final covariates are described and semantically defined by providing the workflow of D-TMs and the mathematical formulation following the SemAP notation. Source layers to derive base variables were extracted by exclusively relying on global-scale public open geodata in order for the same set of bioclimatic covariates to be reproducible in any region worldwide. In particular, two freely available datasets were exploited for temperature and precipitation (WorldClim) and elevation (Global Multi-resolution Terrain Elevation Data). The working extent covers the European continent to the Urals with a resolution of 30 arc-second. The proposed set of bioclimatic covariates will be made available as open data in the European Forest Data Centre (EFDAC). The forthcoming complete set of D-TM codelets will enable the 12 covariates to be easily reproduced and expanded through free software. \n....................................................................................................................... \nThis.manuscript.has.been.accepted.for.publication.in IEEE Earthzine 2014 Vol. 7 Issue 2, 2nd quarter theme: Geospatial Semantic Array Programming.  The definitive version has been published at: http://www.earthzine.org/?p=877975 \n...................................................................................................................... \nPlease,.cite.the.definitive.version.of.the.article.as: Caudullo, G., 2014. Applying Geospatial Semantic Array Programming for a Reproducible Set of Bioclimatic Indices in Europe. IEEE Earthzine 7 (2), 877975+. URL http://www.earthzine.org/?p=877975 bioRxiv pre-print doi: 10.1101/009589', u'Cotton is the largest source of renewable textile fiber and a successful model of transgenic applications in crop production. However, improving cotton production using fiber-related transgenes is somewhat difficult. This is probably related to unique epigenetic and gene expression changes during fiber development. Here we show that inhibiting DNA methylation impairs fiber development. Genome-wide methylcytosine-, mRNA-, and small RNA-sequencing analyses reveal minor changes in CG and CHG methylation and distinct changes in CHH methylation among different tissues. In ovules CHH hypermethyaltion is associated with small RNA-directed DNA methylation (RdDM) and expression changes of nearby genes in euchromatin. Remarkably, ovule-derived fiber cells not only maintain euchromatic CHH methylation, but also generate additional heterochromatic CHH hypermethylation independent of RdDM, which represses transposable elements (TEs) and nearby genes including fiber-related genes. Furthermore, DNA methylation contributes to the expression bias of homoeologous genes in ovules and fibers. This spatiotemporal DNA methylation in promoters could act as a double-lock feedback mechanism to regulate TE and gene expression, which could be translated into genomic and biotechnological improvement of agronomic traits.', u'Klebsiella pneumoniae clonal complex (CC) 258/11, comprising sequence types (STs) 258, 11 and closely related STs, is associated with dissemination of the K. pneumoniae carbapenemase (KPC). Hospital outbreaks of KPC CC258/11 infections have been observed globally and are very difficult to treat.  As a consequence there is renewed interest in alternative infection control measures such as vaccines and phage or depolymerase treatments targeting the K pneumoniae polysaccharide capsule.  To date, 78 immunologically distinct capsule variants have been described in K. pneumoniae.  Previous investigations of ST258 and a small number of closely related strains suggested capsular variation was limited within this clone; only two distinct ST258 capsular synthesis (cps) loci have been identified, both acquired through large-scale recombination events (>50 kbp). Here we report comparative genomic analysis of the broader K. pneumoniae CC258/11.  Our data indicate that several large-scale recombination events have shaped the genomes of CC258/11, and that definition of the complex should be broadened to include ST395 (also reported to harbour KPC).  We identified 11 different cps loci within CC258/11, suggesting that capsular switching is actually common within the complex. We also observed several insertion sequences (IS) within the cps loci, and show further diversification of two loci through IS activity.  These findings suggest the capsular loci of clinically important K. pneumoniae are under diversifying selection, which alters our understanding of the evolution of this important clone and has implications for the design of control measures targeting the capsule.', u'Understanding the genetic architecture of gene expression is an intermediate step to understand the genetic architecture of complex diseases. RNA-seq technologies have improved the quantification of gene expression and allow to measure allelic specific expression (ASE)1-3. ASE is hypothesized to result from the direct effect of cis regulatory variants, but a proper estimation of the causes of ASE has not been performed to date. In this study we take advantage of a sample of twins to measure the relative contribution of genetic and environmental effects on ASE and we found substantial effects of gene x gene (GxG) and gene x environment (GxE) interactions. We propose a model where ASE requires genetic variability in cis, a difference in the sequence of both alleles, but the magnitude of the ASE effect depends on trans genetic and environmental factors that interact with the cis genetic variants. We uncover large GxG and GxE effects on gene expression and likely complex phenotypes that currently remain elusive.', u'Single Nucleotide Polymorphism (SNP) discovery is an important preliminary for understanding genetic variation. With current sequencing methods we can sample genomes comprehensively. SNPs are found by aligning sequence reads against longer assembled references. De Bruijn graphs are efficient data structures that can deal with the vast amount of data from modern technologies. Recent work has shown that the topology of these graphs captures enough information to allow the detection and characterisation of genetic variants, offering an alternative to alignment-based methods. Such methods rely on depth-first walks of the graph to identify closing bifurcations. These methods are conservative or generate many false-positive results, particularly when traversing highly inter-connected (complex) regions of the graph or in regions of very high coverage. \nWe devised an algorithm that calls SNPs in converted De Bruijn graphs by enumerating 2k + 2 cycles. We evaluated the accuracy of predicted SNPs by comparison with SNP lists from alignment based methods. We tested accuracy of the SNP calling using sequence data from sixteen ecotypes of Arabidopsis thaliana and found that accuracy was high. We found that SNP calling was even across the genome and genomic feature types. Using sequence based attributes of the graph to train a decision tree allowed us to increase accuracy of SNP calls further.  Together these results indicate that our algorithm is capable of finding SNPs accurately in complex sub-graphs and potentially comprehensively from whole genome graphs.\nThe source code for a C++ implementation of our algorithm is available under the GNU Public Licence v3 at: https://github.com/redayounsi/2kplus2', u'Deep sequencing of clinical samples is now an established tool for the detection of infectious pathogens, with direct medical applications.\nThe large amount of data generated provides an opportunity to detect species even at very low levels, provided that computational tools can effectively interpret potentially complex metagenomic mixtures.\nData interpretation is complicated by the fact that short sequencing reads can match multiple organisms and by the lack of completeness of existing databases, in particular for viral pathogens.\nThis interpretation problem can be formulated statistically as a mixture model, where the species of origin of each read is missing, but the complete knowledge of all species present in the mixture helps with the individual reads assignment.\nSeveral analytical tools have been proposed to approximately solve this computational problem.\nHere, we show that the use of parallel Monte Carlo Markov chains (MCMC) for the exploration of the species space enables the identification of  the set of species most likely to contribute to the mixture.\nThe added accuracy comes at a cost of increased computation time. \nOur approach is useful for solving complex mixtures involving several related species.\nWe designed our method specifically for the analysis of deep transcriptome sequencing datasets and with a particular focus on viral pathogen detection, but the principles are applicable more generally to all types of metagenomics mixtures.\nThe work is implemented as a user friendly R package, available from CRAN: http://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/metaMix', u'Background: Dynamic activation and inactivation of gene regulatory DNA produce the expression changes that drive the differentiation of cellular lineages.  Identifying regulatory regions active during developmental transitions is necessary to understand how the genome specifies complex developmental programs and how these processes are disrupted in disease. Gene regulatory dynamics are mediated by many factors, including the binding of transcription factors (TFs) and the methylation and acetylation of DNA and histones. Genome-wide maps of TF binding and DNA and histone modifications have been generated for many cellular contexts; however, given the diversity and complexity of animal development, these data cover only a small fraction of the cellular and developmental contexts of interest. Thus, there is a need for methods that use existing epigenetic and functional genomics data to analyze the thousands of contexts that remain uncharacterized.\n\nResults: To investigate the utility of histone modification data in the analysis of cellular contexts without such data, I evaluated how well genome-wide H3K27ac and H3K4me1 data collected in different developmental stages, tissues, and species were able to predict experimentally validated heart enhancers active at embryonic day 11.5 (E11.5) in mouse.  Using a machine-learning approach to integrate the data from different contexts, I found that E11.5 heart enhancers can often be predicted accurately from data from other contexts, and I quantified the contribution of each data source to the predictions. The utility of each dataset correlated with nearness in developmental time and tissue to the target context: data from late developmental stages and adult heart tissues were most informative for predicting E11.5 enhancers, while marks from stem cells and early developmental stages were less informative. Predictions based on data collected in non-heart tissues and in human hearts were better than random, but worse than using data from mouse hearts.\n\nConclusions: The ability of these algorithms to accurately predict developmental enhancers based on data from related, but distinct, cellular contexts suggests that combining computational models with epigenetic data sampled from relevant contexts may be sufficient to enable functional characterization of many cellular contexts of interest.', u'The optic fissure is a gap in the developing vertebrate eye and must be closed as development proceeds. A persisting optic fissure is referred to as coloboma, a major cause for blindness in children. Multiple factors have been linked to coloboma formation, however, the actual process of fissure closure is only poorly understood.\nBased on our findings we propose an important role of TGFb signaling for optic fissure closure. We show active TGFb signaling in the fissure margins, analyzed by a new TGFb signaling reporter zebrafish. We found BMP antagonists regulated by TGFb. These antagonists we also found expressed in the fissure margins. Finally we show a coloboma phenotype in a TGFb KO mouse. Microarray data analysis indicates intense TGFb dependent remodeling of the extracellular matrix (ECM) during optic fissure closure. \nWe propose that TGFb is driving optic fissure closure by ECM remodeling. As previously shown, inhibition of BMP signaling is important for such TGFb dependent ECM remodeling. We show that this is achieved by the regulation of BMP antagonists, expressed in the optic fissure margins.', u'A tantalizing question in microbial physiology is the inter-dependence and evolutionary potential of cellular stress response across multiple environmental dimensions. To address this question, we comprehensively characterized the cross-stress behavior of wild-type and evolved Escherichia coli populations in five abiotic stresses (n-butanol, osmotic, alkaline, acidic, and oxidative) by performing genome-scale genetic, transcriptional and growth profiling, thus identifying 18 cases of cross-stress protection and one case of cross-stress vulnerability. We identified 18 cases of cross-stress protection and one case of cross-stress vulnerability, along with core and stress-specific networks. We tested several hypotheses regarding the effect of the stress order, stress combinations, mutation reversal and varying environments to the evolution and final cellular fitness of the respective populations. Our results argue of a common systems-level core of the stress response with several crucial implicated pathways that include metal ion binding and glycolysis/gluconeogenesis that is further complemented by a stress-specific expression program.', u'Mapping hybrid defects in contact zones between incipient species can identify genomic regions contributing to reproductive isolation and reveal genetic mechanisms of speciation. The house mouse features a rare combination of sophisticated genetic tools and natural hybrid zones between subspecies. Male hybrids often show reduced fertility, a common reproductive barrier between incipient species. Laboratory crosses have identified sterility loci, but each encompasses hundreds of genes. We map genetic determinants of testis weight and testis gene expression using offspring of mice captured in a hybrid zone between M. musculus musculus and M. m. domesticus. Many generations of admixture enables high-resolution mapping of loci contributing to these sterility-related phenotypes. We identify complex interactions among sterility loci, suggesting multiple, non-independent genetic incompatibilities contribute to barriers to gene flow in the hybrid zone.', u"The design of modern scientific experiments requires the control and monitoring of many parallel data streams. However, the serial execution of programming instructions in a computer makes it a challenge to develop software that can deal with the asynchronous, parallel nature of scientific data. Here we present Bonsai, a modular, high-performance, open-source visual programming framework for the acquisition and online processing of data streams. We describe Bonsai's core principles and architecture and demonstrate how it allows for flexible and rapid prototyping of integrated experimental designs in neuroscience. We specifically highlight different possible applications which require the combination of many different hardware and software components, including behaviour video tracking, electrophysiology and closed-loop control of stimulation parameters.", u'Cassava (Manihot esculenta Crantz) is a major staple crop in Africa, Asia, and South America, and its starchy roots provide nourishment for 800 million people worldwide. Although native to South America, cassava was brought to Africa approximately 400 years ago and is now widely cultivated across sub-Saharan Africa. The widespread use of clonal planting material, however, aids the spread of disease. Breeding for disease resistance and improved yield began in the 1920s and has accelerated in the last 45 years. To assist in the rapid identification of markers for pathogen resistance and crop traits, and to accelerate breeding programs, we generated a framework map for M. esculenta Crantz derived from reduced representation sequencing (genotyping-by- sequencing [GBS]). The composite 2,412 cM map integrates ten biparental maps (comprising 3,480 meioses) and organizes 22,403 genetic markers on 18 chromosomes, in agreement with the observed karyotype. The map anchors 71.9% of the draft genome assembly and 90.7% of the predicted protein-coding genes. The resulting chromosome-anchored genome sequence provides an essential framework for identification of trait markers and causal genes as well as genomics-enhanced breeding of this important crop.', u'Single molecule, real-time (SMRT) sequencing from Pacific Biosciences is increasingly used in many areas of biological research including de novo genome assembly, structural-variant identification, haplotype phasing, mRNA isoform discovery, and base-modification analyses.  High-quality, public datasets of SMRT sequences can spur development of analytic tools that can accommodate unique characterisitcs  of SMRT data (long read lengths, lack of GC or amplification bias, and a random error profile leading to high consensus accuracy). In this paper, we describe eight high-coverage SMRT sequence datasets from five organisms (Escherichia coli, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Neurospora crassa, Arabidopsis thaliana, and Drosophila melanogaster) that have been publicly released to the general scientific community (NCBI Sequence Read Archive ID SRP040522).  Data were generated using two sequencing chemistries (P4-C2 and P5-C3) on the PacBio RS II instrument.  The datasets reported here can be used without restriction by the research community to generate whole-genome assemblies, test new algorithms, investigate genome structure and evolution, and identify base modifications in some of the most widely-studied model systems in biological research.', u'Mutations are the source of evolutionary variation. The interactions of multiple mutations can have important effects on fitness and evolutionary trajectories. We have recently described the distribution of fitness effects of all single mutations for a nine amino acid region of yeast Hsp90 (Hsp82) implicated in substrate binding. Here, we report and discuss the distribution of intragenic epistatic effects within this region in seven Hsp90 point mutant backgrounds of neutral to slightly deleterious effect, resulting in an analysis of more than 1000 double-mutants. We find negative epistasis between substitutions to be common, and positive epistasis to be rare \u2013 resulting in a pattern that indicates a drastic change in the distribution of fitness effects one step away from the wild type. This can be well explained by a concave relationship between phenotype and genotype (i.e., a concave shape of the local fitness landscape), suggesting mutational robustness intrinsic to the local sequence space. Structural analyses indicate that, in this region, epistatic effects are most pronounced when a solvent-inaccessible position is involved in the interaction. In contrast, all 18 observations of positive epistasis involved at least one mutation at a solvent-exposed position. By combining the analysis of evolutionary and biophysical properties of an epistatic landscape, these results contribute to a more detailed understanding of the complexity of protein evolution.', u'Stereotactic targeting is a commonly used technique for performing injections in the brains of mice and other animals. The most common method for targeting stereoscopic injections uses the skull indentations bregma and lambda as reference points and is limited in its precision by factors such as skull curvature and individual variation, as well as an incomplete correspondence between skull landmarks and brain locations. In this software tool, a 3D laser scan of the mouse skull is taken in vitro and registered onto a reference skull using a point cloud matching algorithm, and the parameters of the transformation are used to position a glass pipette to place tracer injections. The software was capable of registering sample skulls with less than 100 micron error, and was able to target an injection in a mouse with error of roughly 500 microns. These results indicate that using skull scan registration has the potential to be widely applicable in automating stereotactic targeting of tracer injections.', u'The proteomes of cells, tissues, and organisms reflect active cellular processes and change continuously in response to intracellular and extracellular cues. Deep, quantitative profiling of the proteome, especially if combined with mRNA and metabolite measurements, should provide an unprecedented view of cell state, better revealing functions and interactions of cell components. Molecular diagnostics and biomarker should benefit particularly from the accurate quantification of proteomes, since complex diseases like cancer change protein abundances and modifications. Currently, shotgun mass spectrometry is the primary technology for high-throughput protein identification and quantification; while powerful, it lacks high sensitivity and coverage. We draw parallels with next-generation DNA sequencing and propose a strategy, termed fluorosequencing, for sequencing peptides in a complex protein sample at the level of single molecules. In the proposed approach,  millions of individual fluorescently labeled peptides are visualized in parallel, monitoring changing patterns of fluorescence intensity as N-terminal amino acids are sequentially removed, and using the resulting fluorescence signatures (fluorosequences) to uniquely identify individual peptides. We introduce a theoretical foundation for fluorosequencing, and by using Monte Carlo computer simulations, we explore its feasibility, anticipate the most likely experimental errors, quantify their potential impact, and discuss the broad potential utility offered by a high-throughput peptide sequencing technology.', u'The testis displays striking anatomical divergence among primates. Multi-male species, such as chimpanzees, have recurrently evolved large testicles relative to single-male species, such as humans. However, the developmental mechanisms behind testis divergence and whether they involve convergent molecular changes, have remained unknown. Through comparative analysis of transcriptomic data, we show that a species\u2019 testis expression profile, like testis size, can be a reliable indicator of mating type among primates, and possibly murids. Differential expression, in turn, largely reflects changes in the relative proportions of somatic/pre-meiotic versus meiotic/post-meiotic cell types. By studying mouse and macaque testis development, we find that single-male species\u2019 testis expression profiles are paedomorphic relative to multi-male species\u2019 profiles. For instance, human and gorilla testis profiles resemble those of adolescent mice. Our results suggest that heterochronic shifts involving conserved transcription regulators have been repeatedly employed in primate evolution, leading to rapid, convergent changes in testis size and histology.', u'Vocalizations are behaviorally critical sounds, and this behavioral importance is reflected in the ascending auditory system, where conspecific vocalizations are increasingly over-represented at higher processing stages. Recent evidence suggests that, in macaques, this increasing selectivity for vocalizations might culminate in a cortical region that is densely populated by vocalization-preferring neurons. Such a region might be a critical node in the representation of vocal communication sounds, underlying the recognition of vocalization type, caller and social context. These results raise the questions of whether cortical specializations for vocalization processing exist in other species, their cortical location, and their relationship to the auditory processing hierarchy. To explore cortical specializations for vocalizations in another  species, we performed high-field fMRI of the auditory cortex of a vocal New World primate, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Using a sparse imaging paradigm, we discovered a caudal-rostral gradient for the processing of conspecific vocalizations in marmoset auditory cortex, with regions of the anterior temporal lobe close to the temporal pole exhibiting the highest preference for vocalizations. These results demonstrate similar cortical  specializations for vocalization processing in macaques and marmosets, suggesting that cortical specializations for vocal processing might have evolved before the lineages of these species diverged.', u'Though many microbial species or clades now have hundreds of sequenced genomes, existing whole-genome alignment methods do not efficiently handle comparisons on this scale. Here we present the Harvest suite of core-genome alignment and visualization tools for quickly analyzing thousands of intraspecific microbial strains. Harvest includes Parsnp, a fast core-genome multi-aligner, and Gingr, a dynamic visual platform. Combined they provide interactive core-genome alignments, variant calls, recombination detection, and phylogenetic trees. Using simulated and real data we demonstrate that our approach exhibits unrivaled speed while maintaining the accuracy of existing methods. The Harvest suite is open-source and freely available from: http://github.com/marbl/harvest.', u'Effects of conspecific neighbors on growth and survival of trees have been found to be related to species abundance. Both positive and negative relationships may explain observed abundance patterns. Surprisingly, it is rarely tested whether such relationships could be biased or even spurious due to influences of spatial aggregation, distance decay of neighbor effects and standardization of effect sizes. To investigate potential biases, we simulated communities of 20 identical species with log-series abundances but without species-specific interactions. We expected no relationship of conspecific neighbor effects with species abundance. Growth of individual trees was simulated in random and aggregated spatial patterns using no, linear, or squared distance decay. Regression coefficients of statistical neighborhood models were unbiased and unrelated to species abundance. However, variation in the number of conspecific neighbors was positively or negatively related to species abundance depending on spatial pattern and type of distance decay. Consequently, effect sizes and standardized regression coefficients were also positively or negatively related to species abundance depending on spatial pattern and distance decay. We argue that tests using randomized tree positions and identities provide the best bench marks by which to critically evaluate relationships of effect sizes or standardized regression coefficients with tree species abundance.', u'Eukaryotic cells carry two genomes, nuclear (nDNA) and mitochondrial (mtDNA), which are ostensibly decoupled in their replication, segregation and inheritance. It is increasingly appreciated that heteroplasmy, the occurrence of multiple mtDNA haplotypes in a cell, plays an important biological role, but its features are not well understood. Accurately determining the diversity of mtDNA has been difficult, due to the relatively small amount of mtDNA in each cell (< 1% of the total DNA), the intercellular variability of mtDNA content and mtDNA pseudogenes (Numts) in nDNA. To understand the nature of heteroplasmy, we developed Mseek, a novel technique to purify and sequence mtDNA. Mseek yields high purity (> 90%) mtDNA and its ability to detect rare variants is limited only by sequencing depth, providing unprecedented sensitivity and specificity. Using Mseek, we confirmed the ubiquity of heteroplasmy by analyzing mtDNA from a diverse set of cell lines and human samples. Applying Mseek to colonies derived from single cells, we find heteroplasmy is stably maintained in individual daughter cells over multiple cell divisions. We hypothesized that the stability of heteroplasmy could be facilitated by inter-cellular exchange of mtDNA. We explicitly demonstrate this exchange by co-culturing cell lines with distinct mtDNA haplotypes. Our results shed new light on the maintenance of heteroplasmy and provide a novel platform to investigate features of heteroplasmy in normal and diseased states.', u'The identification of large regulatory and signalling networks involved in the control of crucial cellular processes calls for proper modelling approaches. Indeed, models can help elucidate properties of these networks, understand their behaviour, and provide (testable) predictions by performing in silico experiments. In this context, qualitative, logical frameworks have emerged as relevant approaches as demonstrated by a growing number of published models, along with new methodologies and software tools. This productive activity now requires a concerted effort to ensure model reusability and interoperability between tools. Here, we outline the logical modelling framework and present the most important achievements of the Consortium for Logical Models and Tools, along with future objectives. This open community welcomes contributions from all researchers interested in logical modelling or in related mathematical and computational developments.', u'Identification of driver mutations can lead to a better understanding of the molecular mechanisms associated with cancer. This can be a first step towards developing diagnostic and prognostic markers. Various driver mutation prediction tools rely on different algorithm for prediction and hence there is little consensus in the predictions. The input and output formats vary across the tools. It has been suggested \nthat an ensemble approach that takes into account various prediction scores might perform better. There is a need for a tool that can run multiple such tools on a dataset in a more accessible and modular manner, whose output can then be combined to select consensus drivers.\n \nWe developed wrappers for various driver mutation predictions tools using Galaxy based framework. In order to perform predictions using multiple tools on the same dataset, we also developed Galaxy based workflows to convert VCF format to tool specific formats. The tools are publicly available at: https://github.com/saketkc/galaxy_tools\nThe workflows are available at: https://github.com/saketkc/galaxy_tools/tree/master/workflows', u'We present a genome-wide analysis of splicing patterns of 282 kidney renal clear cell carcinoma patients in which we integrate data from whole-exome sequencing of tumor and normal samples, RNA-seq and copy number variation. We proposed a scoring mechanism to compare splicing pat- terns in tumor samples to normal samples in order to rank and detect tumor-specific isoforms that have a potential for new biomarkers. We identified a subset of genes that show introns only observable in tumor but not in normal samples, ENCODE and GEUVADIS samples. In order to improve our understanding of the underlying genetic mechanisms of splicing variation we performed a large-scale association analysis to find links between somatic or germline variants with alternative splicing events. We identified 915 cis- and trans-splicing quantitative trait loci (sQTL) associated with changes in splicing patterns. Some of these sQTL have previously been associated with being susceptibility loci for cancer and other diseases. Our analysis also allowed us to identify the function of several COSMIC variants showing significant association with changes in alternative splicing. This demonstrates the potential significance of variants affecting alternative splicing events and yields insights into the mechanisms related to an array of disease phenotypes.', u'Ancestry deconvolution, the task of identifying the ancestral origin of chromosomal segments in admixed individuals, has important implications, from mapping disease genes to identifying candidate loci under natural selection. To date, however, most existing methods for ancestry deconvolution are typically limited to two or three ancestral populations, and cannot resolve contributions from populations related at a sub-continental scale.\n\nWe describe Ancestry Composition, a modular three-stage pipeline that efficiently and accurately identifies the ancestral origin of chromosomal segments in admixed individuals. It assumes the genotype data have been phased. In the first stage, a support vector machine classifier assigns tentative ancestry labels to short local phased genomic regions.  In the second stage, an autoregressive pair hidden Markov model simultaneously corrects phasing errors and produces reconciled local ancestry estimates and confidence scores based on the tentative ancestry labels.  In the third stage, confidence estimates are recalibrated using isotonic regression.\n\nWe compiled a reference panel of almost 10,000 individuals of homogeneous ancestry, derived from a combination of several publicly available datasets and over 8,000 individuals reporting four grandparents with the same country-of-origin from the member database of the personal genetics company, 23andMe, Inc., and excluding outliers identified through principal components analysis (PCA).  In cross-validation experiments, Ancestry Composition achieves high precision and recall for labeling chromosomal segments across over 25 different populations worldwide.', u'A major concern in molecular clock dating is how to use information from the fossil record to calibrate genetic distances from DNA sequences. Here we apply three Bayesian dating methods that differ in how calibration is achieved--"node dating" (ND) in BEAST, "total evidence" (TE) dating in MrBayes, and the "fossilized birth-death" (FBD) in FDPPDiv--to infer divergence times in the Osmundaceae or royal ferns. Osmundaceae have 13 species in four genera, two mainly in the Northern Hemisphere and two in South Africa and Australasia; they are the sister clade to the remaining leptosporangiate ferns. Their fossil record consists of at least 150 species in ~17 genera and three extinct families. For ND, we used the five oldest fossils, while for TE and FBD dating, which do not require forcing fossils to nodes and thus can use more fossils, we included up to 36 rhizome and frond compression/impression fossils, which for TE dating were scored for 33 morphological characters. We also subsampled 10%, 25%, and 50% of the 36 fossils to assess model sensitivity. FBD-derived divergence dates were generally greater than ages inferred from ND dating; two of seven TE-derived ages agreed with FBD-obtained ages, the others were much younger or much older than ND or FBD ages. We favour the FBD-derived ages because they best match the Osmundales fossil record (including Triassic fossils not used in our study). Under the preferred model, the clade encompassing extant Osmundaceae (and many fossils) dates to the latest Palaeozoic to Early Triassic; divergences of the extant species occurred during the Neogene. Under the assumption of constant speciation and extinction rates, FBD yielded 0.0299 (0.0099--0.0549) and 0.0240 (0.0039--0.0495) for these rates, whereas neontological data yielded 0.0314 and 0.0339. However, FBD estimates of speciation and extinction are sensitive to violations in the assumption of continuous fossil sampling, therefore these estimates should be treated with caution.', u'Numerous methods of RNA-Seq data analysis have been developed, and there are more under active development. In this paper, our focus is on evaluating the impact of each processing stage; from pre-processing of sequencing reads to alignment/counting to count normalization to differential expression testing to downstream functional analysis, on the inferred functional pattern of biological response. We assess the impact of 6,912 combinations of technical and biological factors on the resulting signature of transcriptomic functional response. Given the absence of the ground truth, we use two complementary evaluation criteria: a) consistency of the functional patterns identified in two similar comparisons, namely effects of a naturally-toxic medium and a medium with artificially reconstituted toxicity, and b) consistency of results in RNA-Seq and microarray versions of the same study. Our results show that despite high variability at the low-level processing stage (read pre-processing, alignment and counting) and the differential expression calling stage, their impact on the inferred pattern of biological response was surprisingly low; they were instead overshadowed by the choice of the functional enrichment method. The latter have an impact comparable in magnitude to the impact of biological factors per se.', u'The study of human mobility is both of fundamental importance and of great potential value.  For example, it can be leveraged to facilitate efficient city planning and improve prevention strategies when faced with epidemics.  The newfound wealth of rich sources of data--including banknote flows, mobile phone records, and transportation data--has led to an explosion of attempts to characterize modern human mobility.  Unfortunately, the dearth of comparable historical data makes it much more difficult to study human mobility patterns from the past. In this paper, we present an analysis of long-term human migration, which is important for processes such as urbanization and the spread of ideas. We demonstrate that the data record from Korean family books (called "jokbo") can be used to estimate migration patterns via marriages from the past 750 years. We apply two generative models of long-term human mobility to quantify the relevance of geographical information to human marriage records in the data, and we find that the wide variety in the geographical distributions of the clans poses interesting challenges for the direct application of these models. Using the different geographical distributions of clans, we quantify the "ergodicity" of clans in terms of how widely and uniformly they have spread across Korea, and we compare these results to those obtained using surname data from the Czech Republic. To examine population flow in more detail, we also construct and examine a population-flow network between regions. Based on the correlation between ergodicity and migration in Korea, we identify two different types of migration patterns: diffusive and convective.  We expect the analysis of diffusive versus convective effects in population flows to be widely applicable to the study of mobility and migration patterns across different cultures.', u"Bumblebees, amongst the most important of pollinators, are under enormous population pressures. One\nof these is disease. The bumblebee and its gut trypanosome Crithidia bombi are one of the fundamental\nmodels of ecological immunology. Although there is previous evidence of increased immune gene\nexpression upon Crithidia infection, recent work has focussed on the bumblebee's gut microbiota. Here,\nby knocking down gene expression using RNAi, we show for the first time that antimicrobial peptides\n(AMPs) have a functional role in anti-Crithidia defense.", u"OpenBioMaps is a recently developed, open and free web application with distributed database background, operated by several universities and national parks. This system provides free web map services and open database access by using standard OGC protocols. One of its' main features is that users can create new and unique database projects. The databases involved are maintained by the data providers themselves. Standard tools supplied to the users include repeatable and referable data queries, exporting, evaluations and tracking of data changes. The system also provides a programmable data service for promoting data processing.", u'The increasing and unprecedented publication rate in the biomedical field is a major bottleneck for discovery in Life Sciences. The scientific community cannot process assertions from biomedical publications and integrate them into the current knowledge at the same rate. The automatic extraction of assertions about entities and their relationships by text-mining the scientific literature is an extended approach to structure up-to-date knowledge. For knowledge integration, the publication of assertions in the Semantic Web is gaining adoption, but it opens new challenges regarding the tracking of the provenance, and how to ensure versioned data linking. Nanopublications are a new way of publishing structured data that consists of an assertion along with its provenance. Trusty URIs is a novel approach to make resources in the Web immutable, and to ensure the unambiguity of the data linking in the (semantic) Web. We present the publication of DisGeNET nanopublications as a new Linked Dataset implemented in combination of the Trusty URIs approach. DisGeNET is a database of human gene-disease associations from expert-curated databases and text-mining the scientific literature. With a series of illustrative queries we demonstrate its utility.', u'The evolution and diversification of euthyneuran slugs and snails was likely strongly influenced by habitat transitions from marine to terrestrial and limnic systems. Well-supported euthyneuran phylogenies with detailed morphological data can provide information on the historical, biological and ecological background in which these habitat shifts took place allowing for comparison across taxa. Acochlidian slugs are "basal pulmonates" with uncertain relationships to other major panpulmonate clades. They present a unique evolutionary history with representatives in the marine mesopsammon, but also benthic lineages in brackish water, limnic habitats and (semi-)terrestrial environments. We present the first comprehensive molecular phylogeny on Acochlidia, based on a global sampling that covers nearly 85% of the described species diversity, and additionally, nearly doubles known diversity by undescribed taxa. Our phylogenetic hypotheses are highly congruent with previous morphological analyses and confirm all included recognized families and genera. We further establish an ancestral area chronogram for Acochlidia, document changes in diversification rates in their evolution via the birth-death-shift-model and reconstruct the ancestral states for major ecological traits. Based on our data, Acochlidia originated from a marine, mesopsammic ancestor adapted to tropical waters, in the mid Mesozoic Jurassic. We found that the two major subclades present a remarkably different evolutionary history. The Microhedylacea are morphologically highly-adapted to the marine mesopsammon. They show a circum-tropical distribution with several independent shifts to temperate and temperate cold-habitats, but remained in stunning morphological and ecological stasis since the late Mesozoic. Their evolutionary specialization, which includes a remarkable and potentially irreversible "meiofaunal syndrome", guaranteed long-term survival and locally high species densities but also resembles a dead-end road to morphological and ecological diversity. In contrast, the Hedylopsacea are characterized by morphological flexibility and ecologically by independent habitat shifts out of the marine mesopsammon, conquering (semi-)terrestrial and limnic habitats. Originating from interstitial ancestors with moderate adaptations to the mesopsammic world, they reestablished a benthic lifestyle and secondary "gigantism" in body size. The major radiations and habitat shifts in hedylopsacean families occured in the central Indo-West Pacific in the Paleogene. In the Western Atlantic only one enigmatic representative is known probably presenting a relict of a former pan-Tethys distribution of the clade. This study on acochlidian phylogeny and biogeography adds another facet of the yet complex panpulmonate evolution and shows the various parallel pathways in which these snails and slugs invaded non-marine habitats. Given the complex evolutionary history of Acochlidia, which represent only a small group of Panpulmonata, this study highlights the need to generate comprehensively-sampled species-level phylogenies to understand euthyneuran evolution.', u'A widely studied problem in systems biology is to predict bacterial phenotype from growth conditions, using mechanistic models such as flux balance analysis (FBA). However, the inverse prediction of growth conditions from phenotype is rarely considered. Here we develop a computational framework to carry out this inverse prediction on a computational model of bacterial metabolism. We use FBA to calculate bacterial phenotypes from growth conditions in E. coli, and then we assess how accurately we can predict the original growth conditions from the phenotypes. Prediction is carried out via regularized multinomial regression. Our analysis provides several important physiological and statistical insights. First, we show that by analyzing metabolic end products we can consistently predict growth conditions. Second, prediction is reliable even in the presence of small amounts of impurities. Third, flux through a relatively small number of reactions per growth source (~10) is sufficient for accurate prediction. Fourth, combining the predictions from two separate models, one trained only on carbon sources and one only on nitrogen sources, performs better than models trained to perform joint prediction. Finally, that separate predictions perform better than a more sophisticated joint prediction scheme suggests that carbon and nitrogen utilization pathways, despite jointly affecting cellular growth, may be fairly decoupled in terms of their dependence on specific assortments of molecular precursors.', u'Here we present a test-retest dataset of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data acquired at rest. 22 participants were scanned during two sessions spaced one week apart. Each session includes two 1.5 mm isotropic whole-brain scans and one 0.75 mm isotropic scan of the prefrontal cortex, giving a total of six timepoints. Additionally, the dataset includes measures of mood, sustained attention, blood pressure, respiration, pulse, and the content of self-generated thoughts (mind wandering). This data enables the investigation of sources of both intra- and inter-session variability not only limited to physiological changes, but also including alterations in cognitive and affective states, at high spatial resolution. The dataset is accompanied by a detailed experimental protocol and source code of all stimuli used.', u'Magnetic force can serve as an ideal way to control the spatial behavior of microorganisms, because of its flexibility and penetrability. By incubation with the biocompatible compound, ammonium ferric citrate, as an iron source, we magnetized Escherichia coli, the most programmable chassis in synthetic biology. To enhance the magnetization efficiency, the ferritin protein, FtnA, from E. coli was cloned and overexpressed in strain BL21(DE3). The magnetization effect was observed within 30 min after harvest of bacteria, and the concentration of ammonium ferric acid used could be as low as 0.5 mM. Using different shapes of magnetic fields, different patterns could be generated easily. Our method may set up the foundation for a rational design of spatial structure of cell communities, which is important for their actual application.', u'The evolutionary dynamics of transposable element (TE) insertions have been of continued interest since TE activity has important implications for genome evolution and adaptation. Here, we infer the transposition dynamics of TEs by comparing their abundance in natural D. melanogaster and D. simulans populations. Sequencing pools of more than 550 South African flies to at least 320-fold coverage, we determined the genome wide TE insertion frequencies in both species. We show that 46 (49%) TE families in D. melanogaster and 44 (47%) in D. simulans experienced a recent burst of activity. The bursts of activity affected different TE families in the two species. While in D. melanogaster retrotransposons predominated, DNA transposons showed higher activity levels in D. simulans. We propose that the observed TE dynamics are the outcome of the demographic history of the two species, with habitat expansion triggering a period of rapid evolution.', u'Phenotypic variation in natural populations results from a combination of genetic effects, environmental effects, and gene-by-environment interactions. Despite the vast amount of genomic data becoming available, many pressing questions remain about the nature of genetic mutations that underlie functional variation. We present the results of combining genome-wide association analysis of 41 different phenotypes in ~5,000 inbred maize lines to analyze patterns of high-resolution genetic association among of 28.9 million single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and ~800,000 copy-number variants (CNVs). We show that genic and intergenic regions have opposite patterns of enrichment, minor allele frequencies, and effect sizes, implying tradeoffs among the probability that a given polymorphism will have an effect, the detectable size of that effect, and its frequency in the population. We also find that genes tagged by GWAS are enriched for regulatory functions and are ~50% more likely to have a paralog than expected by chance, indicating that gene regulation and neofunctionalization are strong drivers of phenotypic variation. These results will likely apply to many other organisms, especially ones with large and complex genomes like maize.', u'Existing techniques to reconstruct tree models of progression for accumulative processes, such as cancer, seek to estimate causation by combining correlation and a frequentist notion of temporal priority. In this paper, we define a novel theoretical framework called CAPRESE (CAncer PRogression Extraction with Single Edges) to reconstruct such models based on the notion of probabilistic causation defined by Suppes. We consider a general reconstruction setting complicated by the presence of noise in the data due to biological variation, as well as experimental or measurement errors. To improve tolerance to noise we define and use a shrinkage-like estimator. We prove the correctness of our algorithm by showing asymptotic convergence to the correct tree under mild constraints on the level of noise. Moreover, on synthetic data, we show that our approach outperforms the state-of-the-art, that it is efficient even with a relatively small number of samples and that its performance quickly converges to its asymptote as the number of samples increases. For real cancer datasets obtained with different technologies, we highlight biologically significant differences in the progressions inferred with respect to other competing techniques and we also show how to validate conjectured biological relations with progression models.', u'Many lines of evidence indicate GC-biased gene conversion (gBGC) has a major impact on the evolution of mammalian genomes. However, up to now, this process had not been properly quantified. In principle, the strength of gBGC can be measured from the analysis of derived allele frequency spectra. However, this approach is sensitive to a number of confounding factors. In particular, we show by simulations that the inference is pervasively affected by polymorphism polarization errors, especially at hypermutable sites, and spatial heterogeneity in gBGC strength. Here we propose a new method to quantify gBGC from DAF spectra, incorporating polarization errors and taking spatial heterogeneity into account. This method is very general in that it does not require any prior knowledge about the source of polarization errors and also provides information about mutation patterns. We apply this approach to human polymorphism data from the 1000 genomes project. We show that the strength of gBGC does not differ between hypermutable CpG sites and non-CpG sites, suggesting that in humans gBGC is not caused by the base-excision repair machinery. We further find that the impact of gBGC is concentrated primarily within recombination hotspots: genome-wide, the strength of gBGC is in the nearly neutral area, but 2% of the human genome is subject to strong gBGC, with population-scaled gBGC coefficients above 5. Given that the location of recombination hotspots evolves very rapidly, our analysis predicts that in the long term, a large fraction of the genome is affected by short episodes of strong gBGC.', u'1.\tPollination, pest control, and soil properties are well known to affect agricultural production.  These factors might interactively shape crop yield, but most studies focus on only one of these factors at a time.\n2.\tWe used 15 winter oilseed rape (Brassica napus L.) fields in Sweden to study how variation among fields in pollinator visitation rates, pollen beetle pest attack rates and soil properties (soil texture, pH and organic carbon) interactively determined crop yield. The fields were embedded in a landscape gradient with contrasting proportions arable and semi-natural land.\n3.\tPollinator, pest and soil property variables formed bundles across the sites. In general, pollinator visitation and pest levels were negatively correlated and varied independently of soil properties. Because above- and below-ground processes reacted at contrasting spatial scales, it was difficult to predict bundle composition based on the surrounding landscape structure. \n4.\tThe above-ground biotic interactions and below-ground abiotic factors interactively affected crop yield. Pollinator visitation was the strongest predictor positively associated with yield. High soil pH also benefited yield, but only at lower pest loads. Surprisingly, high pest loads increased the pollinator benefits for yield.\n5.\tSynthesis and applications Implementing management plans at different spatial scales can create synergies among bundles of above- and below-ground ecosystem processes, but both scales are needed given that different processes react to different spatial scales.', u'The transformation of the oval optic vesicle to a hemispheric bi-layered optic cup involves major morphological changes during early vertebrate eye development. According to the classical view, the lens-averted epithelium differentiates into the retinal pigmented epithelium (RPE), while the lens-facing epithelium forms the neuroretina. We find a 4.7 fold increase of the entire basal surface of the optic cup.\nAlthough the area an individual RPC demands at its basal surface declines during optic cup formation, we find a 4.7 fold increase of the entire basal surface of the optic cup. We demonstrate that the lens-averted epithelium functions as reservoir and contributes to the growing neuroretina by epithelial flow around the distal rims of the optic cup. This flow is negatively modulated by BMP, which arrests epithelial flow. This inhibition results in persisting neuroretina in the RPE domain and ultimately in coloboma.', u'Chromatin modifiers and histone modifications are components of a chromatin-signaling network involved in transcription and its regulation. The interactions between chromatin modifiers and histone modifications are often unknown, are based on the analysis of few genes, or are studied in vitro. Here, we apply computational methods to recover interactions between chromatin modifiers and histone modifications from genome-wide ChIP-Seq data. These interactions provide a high-confidence backbone of the chromatin-signaling network. Many recovered interactions have literature support; others provide hypotheses about yet unknown interactions. We experimentally verified two of these predicted interactions, leading to a link between H4K20me1 and members of the Polycomb Repressive Complexes 1 and 2. Our results suggest that our computationally derived interactions are likely to lead to novel biological insights required to establish the connectivity of the chromatin-signaling network involved in transcription and its regulation.', u'Perceptual decisions are based on the activity of sensory cortical neurons, but how organisms learn to transform this activity into appropriate actions remains unknown. Projections from the auditory cortex to the auditory striatum carry information that drives decisions in an auditory frequency discrimination task1. To assess the role of these projections in learning, we developed a Channelrhodopsin-2-based assay to selectively probe for synaptic plasticity associated with corticostriatal neurons representing different frequencies. Here we report that learning this auditory discrimination preferentially potentiates corticostriatal synapses from neurons representing either high or low frequencies, depending on reward contingencies. We observed frequency-dependent corticostriatal potentiation in vivo over the course of training, and in vitro in striatal brain slices. Our findings suggest a model in which selective potentiation of inputs representing different components of a sensory stimulus enables the learned transformation of sensory input into actions.', u'Single cells have the potential and the necessity to process the information they receive from their environment. In particular, they commonly need to process temporal information obtained simultaneously from multiple inputs. In addition, response to multiple temporally ordered inputs is evolvable under laboratory conditions, suggesting that genetic networks are constructed to enable organisms to integrate novel information over time. However, the logic used by cellular regulatory networks to perform such complex information processing tasks is not understood. Here we show that gene regulatory networks are consistent with a computation paradigm known as reservoir computing (RC), and that this network structure enables single cells to process temporal information. A core subnetwork of genes (the reservoir) encodes and classifies complex time-varying information in a state-dependent manner. Because the state of the reservoir can then be decoded by a single layer of readout genes, allowing cells to process temporal information and efficiently learn new complex environmental conditions. In support of claim, we analyzed transcription factor networks from a variety of organisms, and found that their topology is compatible with RC. We identified the reservoir cores of the regulatory networks, and tested them using the memory-demanding NARMA prediction task, used as a standard benchmark for RC systems in machine learning. Our results show that the gene regulatory networks perform, and significantly better than other, more constrained topologies reported to work as RC. Interestingly, we find that, in real biological subnetworks, the information processing capacity of of the subnetwork is not strongly dependent on on the number of genes that receive input from the environment. Therefore, reservoir computing is an efficient way to for cells to process information without needing to increase the number of genes or the structure of the network. This is in contrast to other network configurations.', u'We introduce a method for comparing a test genome with numerous genomes from a\nreference population. Sites in the test genome are given a weight w that depends on the\nallele frequency x in the reference population. The projection of the test genome onto the\nreference population is the average weight for each x, w(x). The weight is assigned in\nsuch a way that if the test genome is a random sample from the reference population, w(x)=1. Using analytic theory, numerical analysis, and simulations, we show how the\nprojection depends on the time of population splitting, the history of admixture and\nchanges in past population size. The projection is sensitive to small amounts of past\nadmixture, the direction of admixture and admixture from a population not sampled (a\nghost population). We compute the projection of several human and two archaic genomes\nonto three reference populations from the 1000 Genomes project, Europeans (CEU), Han\nChinese (CHB) and Yoruba (YRI) and discuss the consistency of our analysis with\npreviously published results for European and Yoruba demographic history. Including\nhigher amounts of admixture between Europeans and Yoruba soon after their separation\nand low amounts of admixture more recently can resolve discrepancies between the\nprojections and demographic inferences from some previous studies.', u'The Gene Ontology (GO) is a ubiquitous tool in biological data\nanalysis, and is one of the most well-known ontologies, in or outside\nthe life sciences. Commonly conceived of as a simple terminology\nstructured as a directed acyclic graph, the GO is actually\nwell-axiomatized in OWL and is highly dependent on the OWL tool\nstack. Here we outline some of the lesser known features of the GO,\ndescribe the GO development process, and our prognosis for future\ndevelopment in terms of the OWL representation.', u'As new sequencing technologies become cheaper and older ones disappear, laboratories switch vendors and platforms. Validating the new setups is a crucial part of conducting rigorous scientific research. Here we report on the reliability and biases of performing bacterial 16S rRNA gene amplicon paired-end sequencing on the MiSeq Illumina platform. We designed a protocol using 50 barcode pairs to run samples in parallel and coded a pipeline to process the data. Sequencing the same sediment sample in 248 replicates as well as 70 samples from alkaline soda lakes, we evaluated the performance of the method with regards to estimates of alpha and beta diversity.\n\nUsing different purification and DNA quantification procedures we always found up to 5-fold differences in the yield of sequences between individually barcodes samples. Using either a one-step or a two-step PCR preparation resulted in significantly different estimates in both alpha and beta diversity. Comparing with a previous method based on 454 pyrosequencing, we found that our Illumina protocol performed in a similar manner -- with the exception for evenness estimates where correspondence between the methods was low.\n\nWe further quantified the data loss at every processing step eventually accumulating to 50\\% of the raw reads. When evaluating different OTU clustering methods, we observed a stark contrast between the results of QIIME with default settings and the more recent UPARSE algorithm when it comes to the number of OTUs generated. Still, overall trends in alpha and beta diversity corresponded highly using both clustering methods. \n\nOur procedure performed well considering the precisions of alpha and beta diversity estimates, with insignificant effects of individual barcodes. Comparative analyses suggest that 454 and Illumina sequence data can be combined if the same PCR protocol and bioinformatic workflows are used for describing patterns in richness, beta-diversity and taxonomic composition. (version 1.1 resubmitted to PLOS one 2014-Sept-08)', u'Exon-skipping is considered a principal mechanism by which eukaryotic cells expand their transcriptome and proteome repertoires, creating different slice varaiants with distinct cellular functions. Here we analyze RNA-seq data from 116 transcriptomes in fission yeast (Schizosaccharomyces pombe), covering multiple physiological conditions as well as transcriptional and RNA processing mutants. We applied brute-force algorithms to detect all possible exon-skipping events, which were ubiquitous but rare compared to canonical splicing events. Exon-skipping events increased in cells deficient for the nuclear exosome or the 5?-3? exonuclease Dhp1, and also at late stages of meiotic differentiation when nuclear-exosome transcripts were down-regulated. The pervasive exon-skipping transcripts were stochastic, did not increase in specific physiological conditions, and were mostly present at below 1 copy per cell, even in the absence of nuclear RNA surveillance and late during meiosis. These exon-skipping transcripts are therefore unlikely to be functional and may reflect splicing errors that are actively removed by nuclear RNA surveillance. The average splicing error-rate was ~0.24% in wild-type and ~1.75% in nuclear exonuclease mutants. Using an exhaustive search algorithm, we also uncovered thousands of previously unknown splice sites, indicating pervasive splicing, yet most of these novel splicing events were rare and targeted for nuclear degradation. Analysis of human transcriptomes revealed similar, albeit much weaker trends for pervasive exon-skipping transcripts, some of which being degraded by the nuclear exosome. This study highlights widespread, but low frequency alternative splicing which is targeted by nuclear RNA surveillance.', u'Studying the impacts of climate change requires looking at a multitude of variables across a broad range of sectors [1,2]. Information on the variables involved is often unevenly available or offers different uncertainties [3,4], and a lack of uniform terminology and methods further complicates the process of analysis, resulting in communication gaps when research enterprises span different sectors. For example, models designed by experts in one given discipline might assume conventions in language or oversimplify cross-disciplinary links in a way that is unfamiliar for scientists in another discipline.\nGeospatial Semantic Array Programming (GeoSemAP) offers the potential to move toward overcoming these challenges by promoting a uniform approach to data collection and sharing [5]. The Joint Research Centre of the European Commission has been exploring the use of geospatial semantics through a module in the PESETA II project (Projection of economic impacts of climate change in sectors of the European Union based on bottom-up analysis).\n<BR/>\nThis manuscript has been accepted for publication in IEEE Earthzine 2014 Vol. 7 Issue 2, 2nd quarter theme: Geospatial Semantic Array Programming.\nThe definitive version will be published at: http://www.earthzine.org/', u'There are ~12 billion nucleotides in every cell of the human body, and there are ~25-100 trillion cells in each human body. Given somatic mosaicism, epigenetic changes and environmental differences, no two human beings are the same, particularly as there are only ~7 billion people on the planet. One of the next great challenges for studying human genetics will be to acknowledge and embrace complexity.  Every human is unique, and the study of human disease phenotypes (and phenotypes in general) will be greatly enriched by moving from a deterministic to a more stochastic/probabilistic model.  The dichotomous distinction between simple and complex diseases is completely artificial, and we argue instead for a model that considers a spectrum of diseases that are variably manifesting in each person. The rapid adoption of whole genome sequencing (WGS) and the Internet-mediated networking of people promise to yield more insight into this century-old debate. Comprehensive ancestry tracking and detailed family history data, when combined with WGS or at least cascade-carrier screening, might eventually facilitate a degree of genetic prediction for some diseases in the context of their familial and ancestral etiologies.  However, it is important to remain humble, as our current state of knowledge is not yet sufficient, and in principle, any number of nucleotides in the genome, if mutated or modified in a certain way and at a certain time and place, might influence some phenotype during embryogenesis or postnatal life.', u'Recent breakthroughs in exome sequencing technology have made possible the identification of many causal variants of monogenic disorders. Although extremely powerful when closely related individuals (e.g. child and parents) are simultaneously sequenced, exome sequencing of individual only cases is often unsuccessful due to the large number of variants that need to be followed-up for functional validation. Many approaches remove from consideration common variants above a given frequency threshold (e.g. 1%), and then prioritize the remaining variants according to their allele frequency, functional, structural and conservation properties. In this work, we present methods that leverage the genetic structure of different populations while accounting for the finite sample size of the reference panels to improve the variant filtering step. Using simulations and real exome data from individuals with monogenic disorders, we show that our methods significantly reduce the number of variants to be followed-up (e.g. a 36% reduction from an average 418 variants per exome when ancestry is ignored to 267 when ancestry is taken into account for case-only sequenced individuals). Most importantly our proposed approaches are well calibrated with respect to the probability of filtering out a true causal variant (i.e. false negative rate, FNR), whereas existing approaches are susceptible to high FNR when reference panel sizes are limited.', u'Understanding the persistence of specialists and generalists within ecological communities is a topical research question, with far-reaching consequences for the maintenance of functional diversity. Although theoretical studies indicate that restricted conditions may be necessary to achieve co-occurrence of specialists and generalists, analyses of larger empirical (and species-rich) communities reveal the pervasiveness of coexistence. In this paper, we analyze 175 ecological bipartite networks of three interaction types (animal hosts-parasite, plant-herbivore and plant-pollinator), and measure the extent to which these communities are composed of species with different levels of specificity in their biotic interactions. We find a continuum from specialism to generalism. Furthermore, we demonstrate that diversity tends to be greatest in networks with intermediate connectance, and argue this is because of physical constraints in the filling of networks.', u'Infectious diseases are a major burden on human population,\nespecially in low- and middle-income countries. The increase in the rate\nof emergence of infectious outbreaks necessitates a better understanding of\nthe worldwide distribution of diseases through space and time. We analyze 100 years of records of diseases occurrence\nworldwide. We use a graph-theoretical approach to characterize the worldwide\nstructure of human infectious diseases, and its dynamics over the Twentieth\nCentury. Since the 1960s, there is a clear homogenizing of human\npathogens worldwide, with most diseases expanding their geographical area. The\noccurrence network of human pathogens becomes markedly more connected,\nand less modular. Human infectious diseases are steadily expanding their\nranges since the 1960s, and disease occurrence has become more homogenized\nat a global scale.   Our findings emphasize the need for international\ncollaboration in designing policies for the prevention of outbreaks.', u'The capacity for aerial maneuvering shaped the evolution of flying animals.  Here we evaluate consequences of aviaian morphology for aerial performance1,2 by quantifying static stability and control effectiveness of physical models3 for numerous taxa sampled from within the lineage leading to birds (Paraves4,5).  Results of aerodynamic testing are mapped phylogenetically6-10 to examine how maneuvering characteristics correlate with tail shortening, fore- and hindwing elaboration, and other morphological features11. In the evolution of the Paraves we observe shifts from static stability to inherently unstable aerial planforms; control effectiveness also migrated from tails to the forewings. These shifts suggest that some degree of aerodynamic control and and capacity for manoevering preceded the evolution of strong power stroke.  The timing of shifts also suggests some features normally considered in light of development of a power stroke may play important roles in control.', u'Using environmental sequencing approaches, we now have the ability to deeply characterize biodiversity and biogeographic patterns in understudied, uncultured microbial taxa (investigations of bacteria, archaea, and microscopic eukaryotes using 454/Illumina sequencing platforms). However, the sheer volume of data produced from these new technologies requires fundamentally different approaches and new paradigms for effective data analysis. Scientific visualization represents an innovative method towards tackling the current bottleneck in bioinformatic workflows. In addition to giving researchers a unique approach for exploring large datasets, it stands to empower biologists with the ability to conduct powerful analyses without requiring a deep level of computational knowledge. Here we present Phinch, an interactive, browser-based visualization framework that can be used to explore and analyze biological patterns in high-throughput -Omic datasets. This project takes advantage of standard file formats from computational pipelines in order to bridge the gap between biological software (e.g. microbial ecology pipelines) and existing data visualization capabilities (harnessing the flexibility and scalability of technologies such as HTML5).', u'The annotation and classification of ncRNAs is essential to decipher molecular mechanisms of gene regulation in normal and disease states. A database such as Rfam maintains alignments, consensus secondary structures, and corresponding annotations for RNA families. Its primary purpose is the automated, accurate annotation of non-coding RNAs in genomic sequences. However, the alignment of RNAs is computationally challenging, and the data stored in this database are often subject to\nimprovements. Here, we design and evaluate Ribo, a human-computing game that aims to improve the accuracy of RNA alignments already stored in Rfam. We demonstrate the potential of our techniques and discuss the feasibility of large scale collaborative annotation and classification of RNA families.', u'Large forensic databases provide an opportunity to compare observed empirical rates of genotype matching with those expected under forensic genetic models.  A number of researchers have taken advantage of this opportunity to validate some forensic genetic approaches, particularly to ensure that estimated rates of genotype matching between unrelated individuals are indeed slight overestimates of those observed.  However, these studies have also revealed systematic error trends in genotype probability estimates.  In this analysis, we investigate these error trends and show how they result from inappropriate implementation of the Balding-Nichols model in the context of database-wide matching.  Specifically, we show that in addition to accounting for increased allelic matching between individuals with recent shared ancestry, studies must account for relatively decreased allelic matching between individuals with more ancient shared ancestry.', u'As adult female mosquito\'s salivary gland facilitate blood meal uptake and pathogen transmission e.g. Plasmodium, virus etc., a plethora of research has been focused to understand the mosquito-vertebrate-pathogen interactions. Despite the fact that mosquito spends longer time over nectar sugar source, the fundamental question "how adult female salivary gland manages molecular and functional relationship during sugar vs. blood meal uptake" remains unanswered. Currently, we are trying to understand these molecular relationships under dual feeding conditions in the salivary glands of the mosquito Anopheles culicifacies. During functional annotation of salivary transcriptome database, unexpectedly we discovered a cluster of salivary transcripts encoding plant like proteins. Our multiple experimental validations confirmed that Plant like transcripts (PLTs) are of mosquito origin and may encode functional proteins. A comprehensive molecular analysis of the PLTs and ongoing metagenomic analysis of salivary microbiome provide first evidence that how mosquito may have been benefited from its association with plant host and microbes. Future understanding of the underlying mechanism of the feeding associated molecular responses may provide new opportunity to control vector borne diseases.', u'Because natural selection is likely to act on multiple genes underlying a given phenotypic trait, we study here the potential effect of ongoing and past selection on the genetic diversity of human biological pathways. We first show that genes included in gene sets are generally under stronger selective constraints than other genes and that their evolutionary response is correlated. We then introduce a new procedure to detect selection at the pathway level based on a decomposition of the classical McDonald-Kreitman test extended to multiple genes. This new test, called 2DNS, detects outlier gene sets and takes into account past demographic effects as well as evolutionary constraints specific to gene sets. Selective forces acting on gene sets can be easily identified by a mere visual inspection of the position of the gene sets relative to their 2D null distribution. We thus find several outlier gene sets that show signals of positive, balancing, or purifying selection, but also others showing an ancient relaxation of selective constraints. The principle of the 2DNS test can also be applied to other genomic contrasts. For instance, the comparison of patterns of polymorphisms private to African and non-African populations reveals that most pathways show a higher proportion of non-synonymous mutations in non-Africans than in Africans, potentially due to different demographic histories and selective pressures.', u'Visual processing in cortex happens through a hierarchy of increasingly sophisticated representations. Here we explore a very wide range of model representations (29 models), testing their categorization performance (animate/inanimate) and their ability to account for the representational geometry of brain regions along the visual hierarchy (V1, V2, V3, V4, and LO). We also created new model instantiations (85 model instantiations in total) by reweighting and remixing of the model features. Reweighting and remixing was based on brain responses to an independent training set of 1750 images. We assessed the models with representational similarity analysis (RSA), which characterizes the geometry of a representation by a representational dissimilarity matrix (RDM). In this study, the RDM is either computed on the basis of the model features or on the basis of predicted voxel responses. Voxel responses are predicted by linear combinations of the model features. The model features are linearly remixed so as to best explain the voxel responses (as in voxel/population receptive-field modelling). This new approach of combining RSA with voxel receptive field modelling may help bridge the gap between the two methods. We found that early visual areas are best accounted for by a Gabor wavelet pyramid (GWP) model. The GWP implementations we used performed similarly with and without remixing, suggesting that the original features already approximate the representational space, obviating the need for remixing or reweighting. The lateral occipital region (LO), a higher visual representation, was best explained by the higher layers of a deep convolutional network (Krizhevsky et al., 2012). However, this model could explain the LO representation only after appropriate remixing of its feature set. Remixed RSA takes a step in an important direction, where each computational model representation is explored more broadly by considering not only its representational geometry, but the set of all geometries within reach of a linear transform. The exploration of many models and many brain areas may lead to a better understanding of the processing stages in the visual hierarchy, from low-level image representations in V1 to visuo-semantic representations in higher-level visual areas.', u'Development is a complex process that, under normal circumstances, proceeds in a stable and patterned fashion. Developmental morphogenesis (called embryogenesis) can tell us a great deal about the function and structure of an adult organism. One of the most important aspects of development to understand is the progression of cell division and differentiation in what will become an adult worm. This is where the DevoWorm project can both address multiple outstanding theoretical issues and provide graphical clarity to the embryogenetic process. As a representative of mosaic development, C. elegans embryogenesis is both tractable in terms of cell number and relatively well-characterized. In this paper, we will lay out a theoretical re-interpretation of embryogenesis in addition to developing an RDF-based computational framework for visualizing the results of this theoretical effort. Our theoretical efforts will ultimately involve the construction of a differentiation tree and data analyses that support the concept of differentiation waves acting to coordinate cellular differentiation and embryonic form. The differentiation tree will also feature a means to perturb development in a manner that mimics phenotypic mutagenesis. This will allow us to understand the selective variability that is inherent in biological development, but that remains so poorly understood. In tandem, these developments will allow us to construct a conceptual and computational framework which can be applied to both mosaic and regulative development.', u'As Arabidopsis thaliana has colonized a wide range of habitats across the world it is an attractive model for studying the genetic mechanisms underlying environmental adaptation. Here, we used public data from two collections of A. thaliana accessions to associate genetic variability at individual loci with differences in climates at the sampling sites. We use a novel method to screen the genome for plastic alleles that tolerate a broader climate range than the major allele. This approach reduces confounding with population structure and increases power compared to standard genome-wide association methods. Sixteen novel loci were found, including an association between Chromomethylase 2 (CMT2) and temperature seasonality where the genome-wide CHH methylation was different for the group of accessions carrying the plastic allele. Cmt2 mutants were shown to be more tolerant to heat-stress, suggesting genetic regulation of epigenetic modifications as a likely mechanism underlying natural adaptation to variable temperatures, potentially through differential allelic plasticity to temperature-stress.', u'Recent cancer genome studies have identified numerous genomic alterations in cancer genomes. It is hypothesized that only a fraction of these genomic alterations drive the progression of cancer -- often called driver mutations. Current sample sizes for cancer studies, often in the hundreds, are sufficient to detect pivotal drivers solely based on their high frequency of alterations. In cases where the alterations for a single function are distributed among multiple genes of a common pathway, however, single gene alteration frequencies might not be statistically significant. In such cases, we expect to observe that most samples are altered in only one of those alternative genes because additional alterations would not convey an additional selective advantage to the tumor. This leads to a mutual exclusion pattern of alterations, that can be exploited to identify these groups.\n\nWe developed a novel method for the identification of sets of mutually exclusive gene alterations in a signaling network. We scan the groups of genes with a common downstream effect, using a mutual exclusivity criterion that makes sure that each gene in the group significantly contributes to the mutual exclusivity pattern. We have tested the method on all available TCGA cancer genomics datasets, and detected multiple previously unreported alterations that show significant mutual exclusivity and are likely to be driver events.', u'While modern agriculture relies on genetic homogeneity in the field, some farmers grow genetically heterogeneous crops and exchange seeds. Such diversifying practices associated with seed recycling may allow adaptation of crops to their environment. This socio-genetical model constitutes an original experimental evolution design called On-Farm Dynamic Management (OFDM). Studying OFDM can help understanding how evolutionary mechanisms shape crop diversity submitted to diverse agro-environmental conditions.  \nWe studied a farmer-led initiative where a mixture of four French wheat landraces called "M\xe9lange de Touselles" (MDT) was created and distributed within a farmers\' network. Fifteen populations derived by farmers from the initial mixture were sampled after 2 to 7 generations of cultivation on their farm. Twenty-one space-time samples of 80 individuals were genotyped using 17 microsatellites markers and characterized for their heading date in a "common-garden" experiment. Gene polymorphism was studied using four markers located in earliness genes. \nAn original network-based approach was developed to depict the particular and complex genetic structure of the landraces composing the mixture. \nA rapid differentiation of the mixture was detected, larger at the phenotypic and gene levels compared to the neutral genetic level, indicating a potential divergent selection. We identified two interacting selection processes: variation of the mixture component frequencies and evolution of the within-variety diversity, that shaped the standing variability available within the mixture. These results confirm that farmers\' practices increase genetic diversity and allow crop evolution, which is critical in the context of global change. OFDM appears as a promising model of crop experimental evolution.', u'Hundreds of wild-derived D. melanogaster genomes have been published, but rigorous comparisons across data sets are precluded by differences in alignment methodology.  The most common approach to reference-based genome assembly is a single round of alignment followed by quality filtering and variant detection. We evaluated variations and extensions of this approach, and settled on an assembly strategy that utilizes two alignment programs and incorporates both SNPs and short indels to construct an updated reference for a second round of mapping prior to final variant detection. Utilizing this approach, we reassembled published D. melanogaster population genomic data sets (previous DPGP releases and the DGRP freeze 2.0), and added unpublished genomes from several sub-Saharan populations. Most notably, we present aligned data from phase 3 of the Drosophila Population Genomics Project (DPGP3), which provides 197 genomes from a single ancestral range population of D. melanogaster (from Zambia). The large sample size, high genetic diversity, and potentially simpler demographic history of the DPGP3 sample will make this a highly valuable resource for fundamental population genetic research. The complete set of assemblies described here, termed the Drosophila Genome Nexus, presently comprises 605 consistently aligned genomes, and is publicly available in multiple formats with supporting documentation and bioinformatic tools. This resource will greatly facilitate population genomic analysis in this model species by reducing the methodological differences between data sets.', u'Climate change during the last five decades has impacted significantly on natural ecosystems and the rate of current climate change is of great concern among conservation biologists. Species Distribution Models (SDMs) have been used widely to project changes in species\u2019 bioclimatic envelopes under future climate scenarios. Here, we aimed to advance this technique by assessing future changes in the bioclimatic envelopes of an entire mammalian Order, the Lagomorpha, using a novel framework for model validation based jointly on subjective expert evaluation and objective model evaluation statistics. SDMs were built using climatic, topographical and habitat variables for all 87 species under past and current climate scenarios. Expert evaluation and Kappa values were used to validate past and current distribution models and only those deemed \u2018modellable\u2019 through our framework were projected under future climate scenarios (58 species). We then used phylogenetically-controlled regressions to test whether species traits were correlated with predicted responses to climate change. Climate change will impact more than two-thirds of the Lagomorpha, with leporids (rabbits, hares and jackrabbits) likely to undertake poleward shifts with little overall change in range extent, whilst pikas are likely to show extreme shifts to higher altitudes associated with marked range declines, including the likely extinction of Kozlov\u2019s Pika (Ochotona koslowi). Smaller-bodied species were more likely to exhibit range contractions and elevational increases, but showing little poleward movement, and fecund species were more likely to shift latitudinally and elevationally. Our results suggest that species traits may be important indicators of future climate change and we believe multi-species approaches, as demonstrated here, are likely to lead to more effective mitigation measures and conservation management.', u'Background: Neural circuits can spontaneously generate complex spatiotemporal firing patterns during development.  This spontaneous activity is thought to help guide development of the nervous system.  In this study, we had two aims.  First, to characterise the changes in spontaneous activity in cultures of developing networks of either hippocampal or cortical neurons dissociated from mouse.  Second, to assess whether there are any functional differences in the patterns of activity in hippocampal and cortical networks.\n\nResults: We used multielectrode arrays to record the development of spontaneous activity in cultured networks of either hippocampal or cortical neurons every two or three days for the first month after plating.  Within a few days of culturing, networks exhibited spontaneous activity.  This activity strengthened and then stabilised typically around 21 days in vitro.  We quantified the activity patterns in hippocampal and cortical networks using eleven features.  Three out of eleven features showed striking differences in activity between hippocampal and cortical networks.  1: Interburst intervals are less variable in spike trains from hippocampal cultures.  2: Hippocampal networks have higher correlations. 3: Hippocampal networks generate more robust theta bursting patterns.  Machine learning techniques confirmed that these differences in patterning are sufficient to reliably classify recordings at any given age as either hippocampal or cortical networks.\n\nConclusions: Although cultured networks of hippocampal and cortical networks both generate spontaneous activity that changes over time, at any given time we can reliably detect differences in the activity patterns.  We anticipate that this quantitative framework could have applications in many areas, including neurotoxicity testing and for characterising phenotype of different mutant mice.  All code and data relating to this report are freely available for others to use.', u'Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) is exquisitely adapted to the human host, and much research has focused on its evolution over long timescales spanning millennia. Here, we review recent data exploring the evolution of the virus on much shorter timescales, on the order of days or months. We describe the intrahost genetic diversity of the virus isolated from humans, and how this diversity contributes to HCMV spatiotemporal evolution. We propose mechanisms to explain the high levels of intrahost diversity and discuss how this new information may shed light on HCMV infection and pathogenesis.', u'Escallonia is a morphologically and ecologically diverse clade of shrubs and small trees widely distributed in three hotspots of plant diversity. Previous studies suggested that extant species may have radiated rapidly and/or recently resulting in complex patterns of molecular variation across this genus. This result is apparently mirrored in morphology because species also display complex and overlapping patterns of morphological variation. Taken together, these patterns call into question the identity of all species within Escallonia. To evaluate the currently proposed hypotheses of species boundaries, I used molecular, morphological, and bioclimatic a data for 35 species and assessed three species criteria: genealogical exclusivity, morphological gaps, and climatic niche differences. Interpreting these data in the context of species as segments of evolutionary lineages, I provide evidence that most species (ca. 70%) within Escallonia represent distinct species on independent evolutionary trajectories. Instead of rejecting the current hypotheses of species limit, I argue for taxonomic stability as it provides a useful framework for studies aiming to understand the mechanisms driving the origin and evolution of species in hotspots of biodiversity.', u"Whole-exome sequencing studies have identified common mutations affecting genes encoding components of the RNA splicing machinery in hematological malignancies. Here, we sought to determine how mutations affecting the 3' splice site recognition factor U2AF1 alter its normal role in RNA splicing. We find that U2AF1 mutations influence the similarity of splicing programs in leukemias, but do not give rise to widespread splicing failure. U2AF1 mutations cause differential splicing of hundreds of genes, affecting biological pathways such as DNA methylation (DNMT3B), X chromosome inactivation (H2AFY), the DNA damage response (ATR, FANCA), and apoptosis (CASP8). We show that U2AF1 mutations alter the preferred 3' splice site motif in patients, in cell culture, and in vitro. Mutations affecting the first and second zinc fingers give rise to different alterations in splice site preference and largely distinct downstream splicing programs. These allele-specific effects are consistent with a computationally predicted model of U2AF1 in complex with RNA. Our findings suggest that U2AF1 mutations contribute to pathogenesis by causing quantitative changes in splicing that affect diverse cellular pathways, and give insight into the normal function of U2AF1's zinc finger domains.", u'One of the hallmarks of prostate cancer development is the amplification of C-MYC copy numbers. It is not yet clear what the driving force behind the activation of C-MYC expression in prostate cancer is. CTCF, which is known for its role as chromatin organiser, is thought to be involved in the activation of C-MYC expression. The affinity of CTCF to its binding site on the DNA is negatively affected by methylation of CpG islands, including its binding site within the promoter sequences of C-MYC. DNA hypermethylation is often found in cancer cells and could therefore be responsible for reduced binding of CTCF at the C-MYC promoter, which can in turn lead to enhanced expression. Here, the copy number of C-MYC of five different prostate cancer cell lines has been determined by FISH, and the state of methylation of the binding site of CTCF upstream of C-MYC was investigated. The C-MYC locus was shown to be amplified to various degrees in all cell lines, reflecting the copy number of actual tumors very well, but methylation was found to remain unchanged compared to healthy cells in all examined cell lines. Hence, no correlation between C-MYC-copy number and CTCF binding possibilities could be established. The enhanced expression of C-MYC in prostate cancer cell lines is not affected by CTCF, whose binding presumably still persists.  C-MYC activation in prostate cancer must therefore be caused by a disparate mechanism, which also deviates from other well known mechanisms that are seen in Burkitt-Lymphoma, Leukemia and breast cancer.', u'Identifying adaptively important loci in recently bottlenecked populations?be it natural selection acting on a population following the colonization of novel habitats in the wild, or artificial selection during the domestication of a breed?remains a major challenge. Here we report the results of a simulation study examining the performance of available population-genetic tools for identifying genomic regions under selection. To illustrate our findings, we examined the interplay between selection and demography in two species of Peromyscus mice, for which we have independent evidence of selection acting on phenotype as well as functional evidence identifying the underlying genotype. With this unusual information, we tested whether population-genetic-based approaches could have been utilized to identify the adaptive locus. Contrary to published claims, we conclude that the use of the background site frequency spectrum as a null model is largely ineffective in bottlenecked populations. Results are quantified both for site frequency spectrum and linkage disequilibrium-based predictions, and are found to hold true across a large parameter space that encompasses many species and populations currently under study.  These results suggest that the genomic footprint left by selection on both new and standing variation in strongly bottlenecked populations will be difficult, if not impossible, to find using current approaches.', u'In tropical forests, one of the most common relationships between parasites and insects is that between the fungus Ophiocordyceps (Ophiocordycipitaceae, Hypocreales, Ascomycota) and ants, especially within the tribe Camponotini. These fungi have the ability to penetrate the exoskeleton of the ant and to manipulate the behavior of the host, making it leave the nest and ascend understorey shrubs, to die biting onto the vegetation: hence, the term zombie-ant fungi to describe this behavioral changes on the host. It is posited that this behavioral change aids spore dispersal and thus increases the chances of infection. Despite their undoubted importance for ecosystem functioning, these fungal pathogens are still poorly documented, especially regarding their diversity, ecology and evolutionary relationships. Here, we describe three new and host-specific species of the genus Ophiocordyceps on Camponotus ants from the central Amazonian region of Brazil which can readily be separated using classic taxonomic criteria, in particular ascospore morphology. In addition, we also employed molecular techniques to show for the first time the phylogenetic relationships between these taxa and closely related species within the Ophiocordyceps unilateralis complex, as well as with other members of the family Ophiocordycipitaceae.', u"As a direct result of intense heat and aridity, deserts are thought to be among the most harsh of environments, particularly for their mammalian inhabitants. Given that osmoregulation can be challenging for these animals, with failure resulting in death, strong selection should be observed on genes related to the maintenance of water and solute balance. One such animal,  Peromyscus eremicus, is native to the desert regions of the southwest United States and may live its entire life without oral fluid intake. As a first step toward understanding the genetics that underlie this phenotype, we present a characterization of the  P. eremicus transcriptome. We assay four tissues (kidney, liver, brain, testes) from a single individual and supplement this with population level renal transcriptome sequencing from 15 additional animals. We identified a set of transcripts undergoing both purifying and balancing selection based on estimates of Tajima's D. In addition, we used the branch-site test to identify a transcript - Slc2a9, likely related to desert osmoregulation - undergoing enhanced selection in P. eremicus relative to a set of related non-desert rodents.", u'Long distance migrations are well known to occur in many baleen whale species. Yet, a global synthesis of this information is lacking. Here, we study baleen whales as a group and at a global scale, first analyzing the grey and peer-reviewed literature for information on the location of baleen whale calving and feeding grounds around the world. This information was then combined with modeled-data produced from an Earth System Model to  estimate the global distribution of baleen whale calving and feeding habitats. A simple network theoretic heuristic was then used to identify the shortest over-water path connecting habitats. These shortest paths map well to known major migration routes for a number of species, suggesting that migration has evolved primarily to minimize travel distances. Identifying distance minimizing routes globally, that have demonstrable consistency to known migration routes for certain baleen whale species, offers a useful baseline perspective on large-scale migration patterns, from which many perturbations can by judged. As an example, we used our modeled migration routes to identify regions of the ocean that are likely hotspots of whale ship-strikes. Such information is useful for developing global conservation and management priorities for baleen whales.', u'Living cells rely on small non-coding RNAs (sRNAs) to regulate gene expression at the post-transcriptional level. Contrary to most protein-based activators of transcription, all known riboregulators do not exploit cooperative binding mechanisms to activate gene expression. We conceived a general strategy to design cooperative riboregulation by programming a hierarchical toehold activation cascade, which we implemented into a de novo sequence design algorithm. We engineered different riboregulatory systems relying on the conditional formation of a heterotrimeric species. We characterized the specificity of each RNA-RNA interaction in vitro and the cooperative activation of gene expression in Escherichia coli. As we only rely on a biochemical model to compute allosteric regulation, our strategy could be applied to reach more complex RNA-based nanostructures regulating gene expression for synthetic biology applications.', u'Over the past 500 years, North America has been the site of ongoing mixing of Native Americans, European settlers, and Africans brought largely by the Trans-Atlantic slave trade, shaping the early history of what became the United States. We studied the genetic ancestry of 5,269 self-described African Americans, 8,663 Latinos, and 148,789 European Americans who are 23andMe customers and show that the legacy of these historical interactions is visible in the genetic ancestry of present-day Americans. We document pervasive mixed ancestry and asymmetrical male and female ancestry contributions in all groups studied. We show that regional ancestry differences reflect historical events, such as early Spanish colonization, waves of immigration from many regions of Europe, and forced relocation of Native Americans within the US. This study sheds light on the fine-scale differences in ancestry within and across the United States, and informs our understanding of the relationship between racial and ethnic identities and genetic ancestry.', u'With novel developments in sequencing technologies, time-sampled data are becoming more available and accessible. Naturally, there have been efforts in parallel to infer population genetic parameters from these datasets. Here, we compare and analyze four recent approaches based on the Wright-Fisher model for inferring selection coefficients (s) given effective population size (Ne), with simulated temporal datasets. Furthermore, we demonstrate the advantage of a recently proposed ABC-based method that is able to correctly infer genome-wide average Ne from time-serial data, which is then set as a prior for inferring per-site selection coefficients accurately and precisely. We implement this ABC method in a new software and apply it to a classical time-serial dataset of the medionigra genotype in the moth Panaxia dominula. We show that a recessive lethal model is the best explanation for the observed variation in allele frequency by implementing an estimator of the dominance ratio (h).', u'Living at high-altitude is one of the most difficult challenges that humans had to cope with during their evolution. Whereas several genomic studies have revealed some of the genetic bases of adaptations in Tibetan, Andean and Ethiopian populations, relatively little evidence of convergent evolution to altitude in different continents has accumulated. This lack of evidence can be due to truly different evolutionary responses, but it can be also due to the low power of former studies that have mainly focused on populations from a single geographical region or performed separate analyses on multiple pairs of populations to avoid problems linked to shared histories between some populations. We introduce here a hierarchical Bayesian method to detect local adaptation that can deal with complex demographic histories. Our method can identify selection occurring at different scales, as well as convergent adaptation in different regions. We apply our approach to the analysis of a large SNP dataset from low- and high-altitude human populations from America and Asia. The simultaneous analysis of these two geographic areas allows us to identify several candidate genome regions for altitudinal selection, and we show that convergent evolution among continents has been quite common. In addition to identifying several genes and biological processes involved in high altitude adaptation, we identify two specific biological pathways that could have evolved in both continents to counter toxic effects induced by hypoxia.', u'Background: The MinION\u2122 is a new, portable single-molecule sequencer developed by Oxford Nanopore Technologies. It measures four inches in length and is powered from the USB 3.0 port of a laptop computer. By measuring the change in current produced when DNA strands translocate through and interact with a charged protein nanopore the device is able to deduce the underlying nucleotide sequence.\n\nFindings: We present a read dataset from whole-genome shotgun sequencing of the model organism Escherichia coli K-12 substr. MG1655 generated on a MinION\u2122 device during the early-access MinION Access Program (MAP). Sequencing runs of the MinION\u2122 are presented, one generated using R7 chemistry (released in July 2014) and one using R7.3 (released in September 2014).\n\nConclusions: Base-called sequence data are provided to demonstrate the nature of data produced by the MinION\u2122 platform and to encourage the development of customised methods for alignment, consensus and variant calling, de novo assembly and scaffolding. FAST5 files containing event data within the HDF5 container format are provided to assist with the development of improved base-calling methods. Datasets are provided through the GigaDB database at http://gigadb.org/dataset/100102', u'Circular RNAs have recently been shown to be important gene expression regulators in mammalian cells. However, their role in prokaryotes remains elusive. Here, we engineered a synthetic riboregulator that self-splice to produce a circular molecule, exploiting group I permuted intron-exon (PIE) sequences. We demonstrated that the resulting circular riboregulator can activate gene expression, showing increased dynamic range compared to the linear form. We characterized the system with a fluorescent reporter and with an antibiotic resistance marker. Thanks to the increased regulatory activity by higher stability, isolation due to self-splicing, and modularity of PIE, we envisage engineered circular riboregulators in further synthetic biology applications.', u'In the age of next-generation sequencing, the availability of increasing amounts and quality of data at decreasing cost ought to allow for a better understanding of how natural selection is shaping the genome than ever before. Yet, alternative forces such as demography and background selection obscure the footprints of positive selection that we would like to identify. Here, we illustrate recent developments in this area, and outline a roadmap for improved selection inference. We argue (1) that the development and obligatory use of advanced simulation tools is necessary for improved identification of selected loci, (2) that genomic information from multiple- time points will enhance the power of inference, and (3) that results from experimental evolution should be utilized to better inform population-genomic studies.', u'Underlying any understanding of the mode, tempo, and relative importance of the adaptive process in the evolution of natural populations is the notion of whether adaptation is mutation-limited. Two very different population genetic models have recently been proposed in which the rate of adaptation is not strongly limited by the rate at which newly arising beneficial mutations enter the population. This review discusses the theoretical underpinnings and requirements of these models, as well as the experimental insights on the parameters of relevance. Importantly, empirical and experimental evidence to date challenges the recent\nenthusiasm for invoking these models to explain observed patterns of variation in humans and Drosophila.', u'Gibbons are believed to have diverged from the larger great apes ~16.8 Mya and today reside in the rainforests of Southeast Asia. Based on their diploid chromosome number, the family Hylobatidae is divided into four genera, Nomascus, Symphalangus, Hoolock and Hylobates. Genetic studies attempting to elucidate the phylogenetic relationships among gibbons using karyotypes, mtDNA, the Y chromosome, and short autosomal sequences have been inconclusive. To examine the relationships among gibbon genera in more depth, we performed 2nd generation whole genome sequencing to a mean of ~15X coverage in two individuals from each genus. We developed a coalescent-based Approximate Bayesian Computation method incorporating a model of sequencing error generated by high coverage exome validation to infer the branching order, divergence times, and effective population sizes of gibbon taxa. Although Hoolock and Symphalangus are likely sister taxa, we could not confidently resolve a single bifurcating tree despite the large amount of data analyzed. Our combined results support the hypothesis that all four gibbon genera diverged at approximately the same time. Assuming an autosomal mutation rate of 1x10-9/site/year this speciation process occurred ~5 Mya during a period in the Early Pliocene characterized by climatic shifts and fragmentation of the Sunda shelf forests. Whole genome sequencing of additional individuals will be vital for inferring the extent of gene flow among species after the separation of the gibbon genera.', u'Work on genetic makeup of complex traits has led to some unexpected findings. Molecular trait heritability estimates have consistently been lower than those of common diseases, even though it is intuitively expected that the genotype signal weakens as it becomes more dissociated from DNA. Further, results from very large studies have not been sufficient to explain most of the heritable signal, and suggest hundreds if not thousands of responsible alleles. Here, I demonstrate how trait heritability depends crucially on the definition of the phenotype, and is influenced by the variability of the assay, measurement strategy, and the quantification approach used. For a phenotype downstream of many molecular traits, it is possible that its heritability is larger than for any of its upstream determinants. I also rearticulate via models and data that if a phenotype has many dependencies, a large number of small effect alleles are expected. However, even if these alleles do drive highly heritable causal intermediates that can be modulated, it does not imply that large changes in phenotype can be obtained.', u'Our previous results proposed an iterative scalable algorithm for the systematic design of sparse, small gain feedback strategies that stabilize the evolutionary dynamics of a generic disease model with linear pharmacodynamics. In this manuscript, we use piecewise linear approximations to model nonlinear drug effects. We leverage results from optimal controller synthesis for positive systems to formulate the feedback synthesis problem as an optimization problem that sequentially explores piecewise linear subsystems corresponding to higher and higher treatment dosages.', u'Neurodevelopmental disorders include rare conditions caused by identified single mutations, such as Fragile X, Down and Angelman syndromes, and much more common clinical categories such as autism, epilepsy and schizophrenia. These common conditions are all highly heritable but their genetics is considered to be \u201ccomplex\u201d. In fact, this sharp dichotomy in genetic architecture between rare and common disorders may be largely artificial. On the one hand, much of the apparent complexity in the genetics of common disorders may derive from underlying genetic heterogeneity, which has remained obscure until recently. On the other hand, even for supposedly Mendelian conditions, the relationship between single mutations and clinical phenotypes is rarely simple. The categories of monogenic and complex disorders may therefore merge across a continuum, with some mutations being strongly associated with specific syndromes and others having a more variable outcome, modified by the presence of additional genetic variants.', u'Background\nThe human gut microbiome is associated with the development of colon cancer, and recent studies have found changes in the composition of the microbial communities in cancer patients compared to healthy controls. However, host-bacteria interactions are mainly expected to occur in the cancer microenvironment, whereas current studies primarily use stool samples to survey the microbiome. Here, we highlight the major shifts in the colorectal tumor microbiome relative to that of matched normal colon tissue from the same individual, allowing us to survey the microbial communities at the tumor microenvironment, and provides intrinsic control for environmental and host genetic effects on the microbiome.\n\nResults\nWe characterized the microbiome in 44 primary tumor and 44 patient-matched normal colon tissues. We find that tumors harbor distinct microbial communities compared to nearby healthy tissue. Our results show increased microbial diversity at the tumor microenvironment, with changes in the abundances of commensal and pathogenic bacterial taxa, including Fusobacterium and Providencia. While Fusobacteria has previously been implicated in CRC, Providencia is a novel tumor- associated agent, and has several features that make it a potential cancer driver, including a strong immunogenic LPS and an ability to damage colorectal tissue. Additionally, we identified a significant enrichment of virulence-associated genes in the colorectal cancer microenvironment.\n\nConclusions\nThis work identifies bacterial taxa significantly correlated with colorectal cancer, including a novel finding of an elevated abundance of Providencia in the tumor microenvironment. We also describe several metabolic pathways and enzymes differentially present in the tumor associated microbiome, and show that the bacterial genes in the tumor microenvironment are enriched for virulence associated genes from the aggregate microbial community. This virulence enrichment indicates that the microbiome likely plays an active role in colorectal cancer development and/or progression. These reuslts provide a starting point for future prognostic and therapeutic research with the potential to improve patient outcomes.', u"1.\tA plant\u2019s reproductive allocation (RA) schedule describes the fraction of surplus energy allocated to reproduction as it increases in size. RA schedules distinguish between energy allocated to different tissue types and thus links to a key physiological trade-off in an organism\u2019s functioning and life history. While theorists have adopted RA schedules as an elegant connection between life history and energy allocation, little is known about RA schedules in real vegetation.\n2.\tHere we review what is known about RA schedules for woody plants using studies either directly quantifying RA, or which collected data from which the shape of an RA schedule can be inferred.\n3.\tWe find that RA schedules vary considerably across species: some species abruptly shift all resources from growth to reproduction (the \u201cbig-bang\u201d strategy); most others gradually shift resources into reproduction, but under a variety of graded schedules (\u201cpartial bang\u201d, \u201casymptotic\u201d, \u201cgradual\u201d, and \u201cdeclining\u201d). Available data suggest the maximum fraction of energy allocated to production ranges from 0.1 to 1 and that shorter-lived species have higher initial RA and increase their RA more quickly than do longer-lived species.\n4.\t'Synthesis' Available data suggests a wide variety of RA schedules exist among plant species. The collection of more data on RA, and not only on easy-to-measure proxies such as maximum height, would enable a tighter integration between theory and observation in plant ecology.", u'Sexual antagonism occurs when there is a positive intersexual genetic correlation in trait expression but opposite fitness effects of the trait(s) in males and females. As such, it constrains the evolution of sexual dimorphism and may therefore have implications for adaptive evolution. There is currently considerable evidence for the existence of sexually antagonistic genetic variation in laboratory and natural populations, but how sexual antagonism interacts with other evolutionary phenomena is still poorly understood in many cases. Here we explore how self-fertilization and inbreeding affect the maintenance of polymorphism for sexually antagonistic loci. We expected a priori that selfing should reduce the region of polymorphism, since inbreeding reduces the frequency of heterozygotes and speeds fixation. Although this expectation was supported, our results show that there is an interactive effect between the degree of selfing and dominance such that those segregating sexually antagonistic loci that do exist are more likely to be partially dominant. In addition, inbreeding effects may influence population persistence and genomic location of sexually antagonistic loci in separate-sexed organisms.', u'Individual taste differences were first reported in the first half of the 20th century, but the primary reasons for these differences have remained uncertain. Much of the taste variation among different mammalian species can be explained by pseudogenization of taste receptors. In this study, by analyzing 14 ethnically diverse populations, we investigated whether the most recent disruptions of taste receptor genes segregate with their intact forms. Our results revealed an unprecedented prevalence of segregating loss-of-function (LoF) taste receptor variants, identifying one of the most pronounced cases of functional population diversity in the human genome. LoF variant frequency was considerably higher than the overall mutation rate, and many humans harbored varying numbers of critical mutations. In particular, molecular evolutionary rates of sour and bitter receptors were far higher in humans than those of sweet, salty, and umami receptors compared with other carnivorous mammals although not all of the taste receptors genes were identified. Many LoF variants are population-specific, some of which arose even after the population differentiation, but not before divergence of the modern and archaic (Neanderthal and Denisovan) human. Based on these findings, we conclude that modern humans might have been losing their taste receptor genes because of high-frequency LoF taste receptor variants. Finally I actually demonstrated the genetic testing of taste receptors from personal exome sequence.', u'Identifying genomic annotations that differentiate causal from associated variants is critical to fine-map disease loci. While many studies have identified non-coding annotations overlapping disease variants, these annotations colocalize, complicating fine-mapping efforts. We demonstrate that conventional enrichment tests are inflated and cannot distinguish causal effects from colocalizing annotations. We developed a sensitive and specific statistical approach that is able to identify independent effects from colocalizing annotations. We first confirm that gene regulatory variants map to DNase-I hypersensitive sites (DHS) near transcription start sites. We then show that (1) 15-35% of causal variants within disease loci map to DHS independent of other annotations; (2) breast cancer and rheumatoid arthritis loci harbor potentially causal variants near the summits of histone marks rather than full peak bodies; and (3) variants associated with height are highly enriched for embryonic stem cell DHS sites. We highlight specific loci where we can most effectively prioritize causal variation.', u'Understanding the patterns and processes underlying the uneven distribution of biodiversity across space and time constitutes a major scientific challenge in evolutionary biology. With rapidly accumulating species occurrence data, there is an increasing ne\ned for making the process of coding species into operational units for biogeographic and evolutionary analyses faster, automated, transparent and reproducible. Here we present SpeciesGeoCoder, a free software package written in Python and R, that allows fo\nr easy coding of species into user-defined areas. These areas may be of any size and be purely geographical (i.e., polygons) such as political units, conservation areas, biomes, islands, biodiversity hotspots, and areas of endemism, but may also include al\ntitudinal ranges. This flexibility allows scoring species into complex categories, such as those encountered in topographically and ecologically heterogeneous landscapes. In addition, SpeciesGeoCoder can be used to facilitate sorting and cleaning of occurr\nence data. The various outputs of SpeciesGeoCoder include quantitative biodiversity statistics, global and local distribution maps, and NEXUS files that can be directly used in many phylogeny-based applications for ancestral state reconstruction, investiga\ntions on biome evolution, and diversification rate analyses. Our simulations indicate that even datasets containing hundreds of millions of records can be analysed in relatively short time using a regular desktop computer. We exemplify the use of our progr\nam through two contrasting examples: i) inferring historical dispersal of birds across the Isthmus of Panama, separating lowland vs. montane species and optimising the results onto a species-level, dated phylogeny; and ii) exploring seasonal variations in \nthe occurrence of 10 GPS-tracked individuals of moose (Alces alces) over one year in northern Sweden. These analyses show that SpeciesGeoCoder allows an easy, flexible and fast categorisation of species distribution data for various analyses in ecology and\n evolution, with potential use at different spatial, taxonomic and temporal scales.', u'Next-Generation Sequencing (NGS) technologies have emerged as a powerful tool to reveal nucleotide polymorphisms in a high-throughput and cost-effective manner. However, it remains a daunting task to proficiently analyze the enormous volume of data generated from NGS and to identify length polymorphisms for molecular marker discovery. The development of insertion-deletion polymorphism (InDel) markers is in particular computationally intensive, calling for integrated high performance methods to identify InDels with high sensitivity and specificity, which would directly benefit areas from genomic studies to molecular breeding. We present here a NGS-based tool for InDel marker discovery (mInDel), a high-performance computing pipeline for the development of InDel markers between any two genotypes. The mInDel pipeline proficiently develops InDel markers by comparing shared region size using sliding alignments between assembled contigs or reference genomes. mInDel has successfully designed thousands of InDel markers from maize NGS data locally and genome-wide. The program needs less than 2 hours to run when using 20 threads on a high-performance computing server to implement 40G data.mInDel is an efficient, integrated pipeline for a high-throughput design of InDel markers between genotypes. It will be particularly applicable to the crop species which require a sufficient amount of DNA markers for molecular breeding selection. mInDel is freely available for downloading at www.github.com/lyd0527/mInDel website.', u'Biomedical knowledge is often represented as annotations of biological entities such as genes, genetic variants, diseases, and drugs. For gene annotations, they are fragmented across data repositories like NCBI Entrez, Ensembl, UniProt, and hundreds (or more) of other specialized databases. While the volume and breadth of annotations is valuable, their fragmentation across many data silos is often frustrating and inefficient. Bioinformaticians everywhere must continuously and repetitively engage in data wrangling in an effort to comprehensively integrate knowledge from all these resources, and these uncoordinated efforts represent an enormous duplication of work. We previously released MyGene.info (http://mygene.info) to enable bioinformatics developers to gain programmatic access to gene annotation data through our high-performance web services. This article focuses on the updates to MyGene.info since our last paper (2013 database issue). With the completely re-factored system, MyGene.info now expands the support from the original nine species to over 14K species, covering >17M genes with >50 gene-specific annotation types. Two simple web service endpoints provides high-performance query access to all these aggregated gene annotations. The infrastructure underlying MyGene.info is highly scalable, which offers both high-performance and high-concurrency, and makes MyGene.info particularly suitable for the use cases of real-time applications and analysis pipelines.', u'Background\nINDELs, especially those disrupting protein-coding regions of the genome, have been strongly associated with human diseases. However, there are still many errors with INDEL variant calling, driven by library preparation, sequencing biases, and algorithm artifacts. \n\nMethods\nWe characterized whole genome sequencing (WGS), whole exome sequencing (WES), and PCR-free sequencing data from the same samples to investigate the sources of INDEL errors. We also developed a classification scheme based on the coverage and composition to rank high and low quality INDEL calls. We performed a large-scale validation experiment on 600 loci, and find high-quality INDELs to have a substantially lower error rate than low quality INDELs (7% vs. 51%). \n\nResults \nSimulation and experimental data show that assembly based callers are significantly more sensitive and robust for detecting large INDELs (>5bp) than alignment based callers, consistent with published data. The concordance of INDEL detection between WGS and WES is low (52%), and WGS data uniquely identifies 10.8-fold more high-quality INDELs. The validation rate for WGS-specific INDELs is also much higher than that for WES-specific INDELs (85% vs. 54%), and WES misses many large INDELs. In addition, the concordance for INDEL detection between standard WGS and PCR-free sequencing is 71%, and standard WGS data uniquely identifies 6.3-fold more low-quality INDELs. Furthermore, accurate detection with Scalpel of heterozygous INDELs requires 1.2-fold higher coverage than that for homozygous INDELs. Lastly, homopolymer A/T INDELs are a major source of low-quality INDEL calls, and they are highly enriched in the WES data. \n\nConclusions\nOverall, we show that accuracy of INDEL detection with WGS is much greater than WES even in the targeted region. We calculated that 60X WGS depth of coverage from the HiSeq platform is needed to recover 95% of INDELs detected by Scalpel. While this is higher than current sequencing practice, the deeper coverage may save total project costs because of the greater accuracy and sensitivity. Finally, we investigate sources of INDEL errors (e.g. capture deficiency, PCR amplification, homopolymers) with various data that will serve as a guideline to effectively reduce INDEL errors in genome sequencing.', u'Comprehensive genome-wide analyses of bacterial DNA methylation have not been possible until the recent advent of single molecule, real-time (SMRT) sequencing. This technology enables the direct detection of N6-methyladenine (6mA) and 4-methylcytosine (4mC) at single nucleotide resolution on a genome-wide scale. The distributions of these two major types of DNA methylation, along with 5-methylcytosine (5mC), comprise the bacterial methylome, some rare exceptions notwithstanding. SMRT sequencing has already revealed marked diversity in bacterial methylomes as well as the existence of heterogeneity of methylation in cells in single bacterial colonies, where such \u2018epigenetic\u2019 variation can enable bacterial populations to rapidly adapt to changing conditions. However, current methods for studying bacterial methylomes using SMRT sequencing mainly rely on population-level summaries that do not provide the single-cell resolution necessary for dissecting the epigenetic heterogeneity in bacterial populations. Here, we present a novel SMRT sequencing-based framework, consisting of two complementary methods, for single molecule-level detection of DNA methylation and assessment of methyltransferase activity through single molecule-level long read-based epigenetic phasing. Using seven bacterial strains and integrating data from SMRT and Illumina sequencing, we show that our method yields significantly improved resolution compared to existing population-level methods, and reveals several distinct types of epigenetic heterogeneity. Our approach enables new investigations of the complex architecture and dynamics of bacterial methylomes and provides a powerful new tool for the study of bacterial epigenetic control.', u'While population-level genomic sequence data have been gathered extensively for humans, similar data from our closest living relatives are just beginning to emerge. Examination of genomic variation within great apes offers many opportunities to increase our understanding of the forces that have differentially shaped the evolutionary history of hominid taxa. Here, we expand upon the work of the Great Ape Genome Project by analyzing medium to high coverage whole genome sequences from 14 western lowland gorillas (Gorilla gorilla gorilla), 2 eastern lowland gorillas (G. beringei graueri), and a single Cross River individual (G. gorilla diehli). We infer that the ancestors of western and eastern lowland gorillas diverged from a common ancestor ~261 thousand years ago (kya), and that the ancestors of the Cross River population diverged from the western lowland gorilla lineage ~68 kya. Using a diffusion approximation approach to model the genome-wide site frequency spectrum, we infer a history of western lowland gorillas that includes an ancestral population expansion  of ~1.4-fold around ~970 kya and a recent  ~5.6-fold contraction in population size ~23 kya. The latter may correspond to a major reduction in African equatorial forests around the Last Glacial Maximum. We also analyze patterns of variation among western lowland gorillas to identify several genomic regions with strong signatures of recent selective sweeps. We find that processes related to taste, pancreatic and saliva secretion, sodium ion transmembrane transport, and cardiac muscle function are overrepresented in genomic regions predicted to have experienced recent positive selection.', u'There is a critical need for population-based prospective cohort studies because they follow individuals before the onset of disease, allowing for studies that can identify biomarkers and disease-modifying effects and thereby contributing to systems epidemiology. This paper describes the design and baseline characteristics of an intensively examined subpopulation of the LifeLines cohort in the Netherlands. For this unique sub-cohort, LifeLines DEEP, additional blood (n=1387), exhaled air (n=1425), fecal samples (n=1248) and gastrointestinal health questionnaires (n=1176) were collected for analysis of the genome, epigenome, transcriptome, microbiome, metabolome and other biological levels. Here, we provide an overview of the different data layers in LifeLines DEEP and present baseline characteristics of the study population including food intake and quality of life. We also describe how the LifeLines DEEP cohort allows for the detailed investigation of genetic, genomic and metabolic variation on a wealth of phenotypic outcomes. Finally, we examine the determinants of gastrointestinal health, an area of particular interest to us that can be addressed by LifeLines DEEP.', u'There has been much excitement about the possibility that exposure to specific environments can induce an ecological memory in the form of whole-sale, genome-wide epigenetic changes that are maintained over many generations. In the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana, numerous heritable DNA methylation differences have been identified in greenhouse-grown isogenic lines, but it remains unknown how natural, highly variable environments affect the rate and spectrum of such changes. Here we present detailed methylome analyses in a geographically dispersed A. thaliana population that constitutes a collection of near-isogenic lines, diverged for at least a century from a common ancestor. We observed little DNA methylation divergence whole-genome wide. Nonetheless, methylome variation largely reflected genetic distance, and was in many aspects similar to that of lines raised in uniform conditions. Thus, even when plants are grown in varying and diverse natural sites, genome-wide epigenetic variation accumulates in a clock-like manner, and epigenetic divergence thus parallels the pattern of genome-wide DNA sequence divergence.', u'Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) signalling is supposed to be triggered by a ligand-induced conformational change of the extracellular domain from a closed, self-inhibited tethered monomer, to an open untethered state with a free dimerization arm. The ectodomain also untethers spontaneously, but the molecular mechanism is still unknown. Experiments with the mAb806 antibody have suggested the existence of a third untethered state, still uncharacterised, appearing transiently during the tethered to untethered transition, and which exposes a cryptic epitope hidden in the known conformers. Here, simulations of two ectodomain mutants (R84K and G39R) targeting a domain I-II hinge reveal a new untethered but compact conformation, which originates from a back-rotation of domain I exposing the mAb806 epitope as the EGFRvIII deletion does. The present findings point to different molecular processes for ligand-dependent and spontaneous untethering, and suggest that point mutations and the EGFRvIII deletion may share a common activation mechanism related to domain I positioning.', u"The conserved CUGBP1, Elav-like (CELF) family of RNA binding proteins contribute to heart and skeletal muscle development and are implicated in myotonic dystrophy (DM).  To understand genome-wide functions of CELF proteins, we analyzed transcriptome dynamics following induction of CELF1 or CELF2 in adult mouse heart or CELF1 in muscle by RNA-seq, complemented by crosslinking/immunoprecipitation-sequencing (CLIP-seq) analysis of mouse cells and tissues to distinguish direct from indirect regulatory targets. Analysis of expression and mRNA binding data revealed hundreds of mRNAs bound in their 3' UTRs by both CELF1 and and the developmentally induced Mbnl1 protein, 3-fold more than expected.  The relative extent of CELF1 and Mbnl1 binding in 3' UTRs predicted the extent of repression or stabilization, respectively, following CELF induction.  These findings support a ?Cytoplasmic Competition? model in which CELF and Mbnl proteins compete to specify degradation or membrane localization/stabilization, respectively, of an overlapping set of targets. Several hundred messages contained proximal CELF1 and Mbnl1 binding sites (within 50 bases), and were more strongly repressed by CELF1 than messages with distal sites.  Messages with different spacing of CELF and Mbnl sites in their 3' UTRs exhibited different developmental dynamics, suggesting that spacing is used to tune cytoplasmic competition between these factors to specify the timing of developmental induction.  CELF1 also shared dozens of splicing targets with Mbnl1, most regulated oppositely, confirming a phenomenon observed in smaller scale studies but not previously supported by genome-wide methods, which also appears to enhance developmental transitions.", u'Transposable elements (TEs) constitute the most active, diverse and ancient component in a broad range of genomes. Complete understanding of genome function and evolution cannot be achieved without a thorough understanding of TE impact and biology. However, in-depth analysis of TEs still represents a challenge due to the repetitive nature of these genomic entities. In this work, we present a broadly applicable and flexible tool: T-lex2. T-lex2 is the only available software that allows routine, automatic, and accurate genotyping of individual TE insertions and estimation of their population frequencies both using individual strain and pooled next-generation sequencing (NGS) data. Furthermore, T-lex2 also assesses the quality of the calls allowing the identification of miss-annotated TEs and providing the necessary information to re-annotate them. The flexible and customizable design of T-lex2 allows running it in any genome and for any type of TE insertion. Here, we tested the fidelity of T-lex2 using the fly and human genomes. Overall, T-lex2 represents a significant improvement in our ability to analyze the contribution of TEs to genome function and evolution as well as learning about the biology of TEs. T-lex2 is freely available online at http://sourceforge.net/projects/tlex/.', u'Protein-protein interactions are fundamental to many biological processes. Experimental screens have identified tens of thousands of interactions and structural biology has provided detailed functional insight for select 3D protein complexes. An alternative rich source of information about protein interactions is the evolutionary sequence record. Building on earlier work, we show that analysis of correlated evolutionary sequence changes across proteins identifies residues that are close in space with sufficient accuracy to determine the three-dimensional structure of the protein complexes. We evaluate prediction performance in blinded tests on 76 complexes of known 3D structure, predict protein-protein contacts in 32 complexes of unknown structure, and demonstrate how evolutionary couplings can be used to distinguish between interacting and non-interacting protein pairs in a large complex. With the current growth of sequence databases, we expect that the method can be generalized to genome-wide elucidation of protein-protein interaction networks and used for interaction predictions at residue resolution.', u"Motivation: Molecular measurements from cancer patients such as gene expression and DNA methylation are usually very noisy. Furthermore, cancer types can be very heterogeneous. Therefore, one of the main assumptions for machine learning, that the underlying unknown distribution is the same for all samples, might not be completely fullfilled. We introduce a method, that can estimate this bias on a per-feature level and incorporate calculated feature confidences into a weighted combination of classifiers with disjoint feature sets.\nResults: The new method achieves state-of-the-art performance on many different cancer data sets with measured DNA methylation or gene expression. Moreover, we show how to visualize the learned classifiers to find interesting associations with the target label. Applied to a leukemia data set we find several ribosomal proteins associated with leukemia's risk group that might be interesting targets for follow-up studies and support the hypothesis that the ribosomes are a new frontier in gene regulation.\nAvailability: The method is available under GPLv3+ License at https:\n//github.com/adrinjalali/Network-Classifier.", u'The African clawed frog Xenopus laevis is an important model organism for studies in developmental and cell biology, including cell-signaling. However, our knowledge of X. laevis protein post-translational modifications remains scarce. Here, we used a mass spectrometry-based approach to survey the phosphoproteome of this species, compiling a list of 3225 phosphosites. We used this resource to study the conservation between the phosphoproteomes of X. laevis and 13 other species. We found that the degree of conservation of phosphorylation across species is predictive of sites with known molecular function, kinase interactions and functionally relevant phospho-regulatory interactions. In addition, using comparative protein structure models, we find that phosphosites within structured domains tend to be located at positions with high conformational flexibility. A fraction of sites appear to occur in inaccessible positions and have the potential to regulate protein conformation.', u'Genome sequences from North American Drosophila melanogaster populations have become available to the scientific community. Deciphering the underlying population structure of these resources is crucial to make the most of these population genomic resources. Accepted models of North American colonization generally purport that several hundred years ago, flies from Africa and Europe were transported to the east coast United States and the Caribbean Islands respectively and thus current east coast US and Caribbean populations are an admixture of African and European ancestry. Theses models have been constructed based on phenotypes and limited genetic data. In our study, we have sequenced individual whole genomes of flies from populations in the southeast US and Caribbean Islands and examined these populations in conjunction with population sequences from Winters, CA, (USA); Raleigh, NC (USA); Cameroon (Africa); and Montpellier (France) to uncover the underlying population structure of North American populations. We find that west coast US populations are most like European populations likely reflecting a rapid westward expansion upon first settlements into North America. We also find genomic evidence of African and European admixture in east coast US and Caribbean populations, with a clinal pattern of decreasing proportions of African ancestry with higher latitude further supporting the proposed demographic model of Caribbean flies being established by African ancestors. Our genomic analysis of Caribbean flies is the first study that exposes the source of previously reported novel African alleles found in east coast US populations.', u'Mutations in the RNase IIIb domain of DICER1 are known to disrupt processing of 5p-strand pre-miRNAs and these mutations have previously been associated with cancer. Using data from the Cancer Genome Atlas project, we show that these mutations are recurrent across four cancer types and that a previously uncharacterized recurrent mutation in the adjacent RNase IIIa domain also disrupts 5p-strand miRNA processing. Analysis of the downstream effects of the resulting imbalance 5p/3p shows a statistically significant effect on the expression of mRNAs targeted by major conserved miRNA families. In summary, these mutations in DICER1 lead to an imbalance in miRNA strands, which has an effect on mRNA transcript levels that appear to contribute to the oncogenesis.', u'Variability is ubiquitous in nature and a fundamental feature of complex systems. Few studies, however, have investigated variance itself as a trait under genetic control. By focusing primarily on trait means and ignoring the effect of alternative alleles on trait variability, we may be missing an important axis of genetic variation contributing to phenotypic differences among individuals. To study genetic effects on individual-to-individual phenotypic variability (or intragenotypic variability), we used a panel of Drosophila inbred lines and focused on locomotor handedness, in an assay optimized to measure variability. We discovered that some lines had consistently high levels of intragenotypic variability among individuals while others had low levels. We demonstrate that the degree of variability is itself heritable. Using a genome-wide association study (GWAS) for the degree of intragenotypic variability as the phenotype across lines, we identified several genes expressed in the brain that affect variability in handedness without affecting the mean. One of these genes, Ten-a, implicated a neuropil in the central complex of the fly brain as influencing the magnitude of behavioral variability, a brain region involved in sensory integration and locomotor coordination. We have validated these results using genetic deficiencies, null alleles, and inducible RNAi transgenes. This study reveals the constellation of phenotypes that can arise from a single genotype and it shows that different genetic backgrounds differ dramatically in their propensity for phenotypic variability. Because traditional mean-focused GWASs ignore the contribution of variability to overall phenotypic variation, current methods may miss important links between genotype and phenotype.', u'Intrinsic cortical dynamics are thought to underlie trial-to-trial variability of visually evoked responses in animal models. Understanding their function in the context of sensory processing and representation is a major current challenge. Here we report that intrinsic cortical dynamics strongly affect the representational geometry of a brain region, as reflected in response-pattern dissimilarities, and exaggerate the similarity of representations between brain regions. We characterized the representations in several human visual areas by representational dissimilarity matrices (RDMs) constructed from fMRI response-patterns for natural image stimuli. The RDMs of different visual areas were highly similar when the response-patterns were estimated on the basis of the same trials (sharing intrinsic cortical dynamics), and quite distinct when patterns were estimated on the basis of separate trials (sharing only the stimulus-driven component). We show that the greater similarity of the representational geometries can be explained by the coherent fluctuations of regional-mean activation within visual cortex, reflecting intrinsic dynamics. Using separate trials to study stimulus-driven representations revealed clearer distinctions between the representational geometries: a Gabor wavelet pyramid model explained representational geometry in visual areas V1\u20133 and a categorical animate\u2013inanimate model in the object-responsive lateral occipital cortex.', u'The goal of the present investigation was to identify reliable markers of conscious visual perception and to characterize their onset latency and its variability. To that end many visual stimuli from different categories were presented at near-threshold contrast and contrastive analyses were carried out on 100 balanced subsets of the data. N200 and P300 were the two reliable markers of conscious perception common to all perceived stimuli and absent for all nonperceived stimuli. The estimated mean onset latency for both markers was shortly after 200 ms. However, the onset latency of both of these markers of conscious perception showed considerable variability depending on which subsets of the data were considered. Some of this variability could be attributed to noise, but it was first and foremost the amplitude fluctuation in the condition without conscious perception that explained the variability in onset latencies of the markers of conscious perception. The present results help to understand why different studies have observed different onset times for the neural correlates of conscious perception. Moreover, the consciousness markers explored here have more generality as stimulus specificity was reduced.', u'Average genome size (AGS) is an important, yet often overlooked property of microbial communities. We developed MicrobeCensus to rapidly and accurately estimate AGS from short-read metagenomics data and applied our tool to over 1,300 human microbiome samples. We found that AGS differs significantly within and between body sites and tracks with major functional and taxonomic differences. For example, in the gut, AGS ranges from 2.5 to 5.8 megabases and is positively correlated with the abundance of Bacteroides and polysaccharide metabolism. Furthermore, we found that AGS variation can bias comparative analyses, and that normalization improves detection of differentially abundant genes.', u'We describe a novel computational method for estimating the probability that a point mutation at each position in a genome will influence fitness.  These fitness consequence (fitCons) scores serve as evolution-based measures of potential genomic function.  Our approach is to cluster genomic positions into groups exhibiting distinct "fingerprints" based on high-throughput functional genomic data, then to estimate a probability of fitness consequences for each group from associated patterns of genetic polymorphism and divergence.  We have generated fitCons scores for three human cell types based on public data from ENCODE.  Compared with conventional conservation scores, fitCons scores show considerably improved prediction power for cis-regulatory elements.  In addition, fitCons scores indicate that 4.2-7.5% of nucleotides in the human genome have influenced fitness since the human-chimpanzee divergence, and, in contrast to several recent studies, they suggest that recent evolutionary turnover has had alimited impact on the functional content of the genome.', u"Premise of the study: The teosinte branched1 (tb1) gene is a major QTL controlling branching differences between maize and its wild progenitor, teosinte. The insertion of a transposable element (Hopscotch) upstream of tb1 is known to enhance the gene's expression, causing reduced tillering in maize. Observations of the maize tb1 allele in teosinte and estimates of an insertion  age of the Hopscotch that predates domestication led us to investigate its prevalence and potential role in teosinte. \n\nMethods: Prevalence of the Hopscotch element was assessed across an Americas-wide sample of 837 maize and teosinte individuals using a codominant PCR assay. Population genetic summaries were calculated for a subset of individuals from four teosinte populations in central Mexico.  Phenotypic data were also collected using seed from a single teosinte  population where Hopscotch was found segregating at high frequency. \n\nKey results: Genotyping results indicate the Hopscotch element is found in a number of teosinte populations and linkage disequilibrium near tb1 does not support recent introgression from maize. Population genetic signatures are consistent with selection on this locus revealing a potential ecological role for Hopscotch in teosinte, but a greenhouse experiment does not detect a strong association between tb1 and tillering in teosinte.\n\nConclusions: Our findings suggest the role of Hopscotch differs between maize and teosinte. Future work should assess tb1 expression levels in teosinte with and without the Hopscotch and more comprehensively phenotype teosinte to assess the ecological significance of the Hopscotch insertion and, more broadly, the tb1 locus in teosinte.", u'Systematic prediction of cellular response to perturbations is a central challenge in biology, both for mechanistic explanations and for the design of effective therapeutic interventions. We addressed this challenge using a computational/experimental method, termed perturbation biology, which combines high-throughput (phospho)proteomic and phenotypic response profiles to targeted perturbations, prior information from signaling databases and network inference algorithms from statistical physics. The resulting network models are computationally executed to predict the effects of tens of thousands of untested perturbations. We report cell type specific network models of signaling in RAF-inhibitor resistant melanoma cells based on data from 89 combinatorial perturbation conditions and 143 readouts per condition. Quantitative simulations predicted c-Myc as an effective co-target with BRAF or MEK. Experiments showed that targeting c-Myc, using the BET bromodomain inhibitor JQ1, and the ERK pathway is both effective and synergistic in this context. We propose these combinations as pre-clinical candidates to prevent or overcome RAF inhibitor resistance in melanoma.', u'Gene and genome duplications serve as an important reservoir of material for the evolution of new biological functions. It is generally accepted that many genes present in vertebrate genomes owe their origin to two whole genome duplications that occurred deep in the ancestry of the vertebrate lineage. However, details regarding the timing and outcome of these duplications are not well resolved. We present high-density meiotic and comparative genomic maps for the sea lamprey, a representative of an ancient lineage that diverged from all other vertebrates approximately 550 million years ago. Linkage analyses yielded a total of 95 linkage groups, similar to the estimated number of germline chromosomes (1N ~ 99), spanning a total of 5,570.25 cM. Comparative mapping data yield strong support for one ancient whole genome duplication but do not strongly support a hypothetical second event. Rather, these comparative maps reveal several evolutionary independent segmental duplications occurring over the last 600+ million years of chordate evolution. This refined history of vertebrate genome duplication should permit more precise investigations into the evolution of vertebrate gene functions.', u'MMany decades of theory have demonstrated that in non-recombining systems, slightly deleterious mutations accumulate non-reversibly1, potentially driving the extinction of many asexual species. Non-recombining chromosomes in sexual organisms are thought to have degenerated in a similar fashion2, however it is not clear the extent to which these processes operate along recombining chromosomes with highly variable rates of crossing over. Using high coverage sequencing data from over 1400 individuals in The 1000 Genomes and CARTaGENE projects, we show that recombination rate modulates the genomic distribution of putatively deleterious variants across the entire human genome. We find that exons in regions of low recombination are significantly enriched for deleterious and disease variants, a signature that varies in strength across worldwide human populations with different demographic histories. As low recombining regions are enriched for highly conserved genes with essential cellular functions, and show an excess of mutations with demonstrated effect on health, this phenomenon likely affects disease susceptibility in humans.', u'Midbrain ventral segmental area (VTA) dopaminergic neurons send numerous projections to cortical and sub-cortical areas, and diffusely release dopamine (DA) to their targets. DA neurons display a range of activity modes that vary in frequency and degree of burst ring. Importantly, DA neuronal bursting is associated with a significantly greater degree of DA release than an equivalent tonic activity pattern. Here, we introduce a single compartmental, conductance-based computational model for DA cell activity that captures the behavior of DA neuronal dynamics and examine the multiple factors that underlie DA firing modes: the strength of the SK conductance, the amount of drive, and GABA inhibition. Our results suggest that neurons with low SK conductance are in a fast firing mode, are correlated with burst\nfiring, and require higher levels of applied current before undergoing depolarization block. We go on to consider the role of GABAergic inhibition on an ensemble of dynamical classes of DA neurons and find that strong GABA inhibition suppresses burst firing. Our studies suggest differences in the distribution of the SK conductance and GABA inhibition levels may indicate subclasses of DA neurons within the VTA. We further identify, that by considering alternate potassium dynamics, the dynamics display burst patterns that terminate via depolarization block, akin to those observed in vivo in VTA DA neurons and in substantia nigra pars compacta DA cell preparations under apamin application. In addition, we consider the generation of transient burst ring events that are NMDA-initiated or elicited by a sudden decrease of GABA inhibition, that is, disinhibition.', u'RNA editing corresponds to a post-transcriptional nucleotide change in the RNA sequence, creating an alternative nucleotide, not present in the DNA sequence. This leads to a diversification of transcription products with potential functional consequences. Two nucleotide substitutions are mainly described in animals, from adenosine to inosine (A-to-I) and from cytidine to uridine (C-to-U). This phenomenon is more and more described in mammals, notably since the availability of next generation sequencing technologies allowing a whole genome screening of RNA-DNA differences. The number of studies recording RNA editing in other vertebrates like chicken are still limited. We chose to use high throughput sequencing technologies to search for RNA editing in chicken, to understand to what extent this phenomenon is conserved in vertebrates. \nWe performed RNA and DNA sequencing from 8 embryos. Being aware of common pitfalls inherent to sequence analyses leading to false positive discovery, we stringently filtered our datasets and found less than 40 reliable candidates. Conservation of particular sites of RNA editing was attested by the presence of 3 edited sites previously detected in mammals.  We then characterized editing levels for selected candidates in several tissues and at different time points, from 4.5 days of embryonic development to adults, and observed a clear tissue-specificity and a gradual editing level increase with time.\nBy characterizing the RNA editing landscape in chicken, our results highlight the extent of evolutionary conservation of this phenomenon within vertebrates, and provide support of an absence of non A-to-I events from the chicken transcriptome.', u'Tumorigenesis involves, among other factors, the alteration of metabolic gene expression to support malignant, unrestrained proliferation. Here, we examine how the altered metabolism of cancer cells is reflected in changes in co-expression patterns of metabolic genes between normal and tumor tissues. Our emphasis on changes in the interactions of pairs of genes, rather than on the expression levels of individual genes, exposes changes in the activity of metabolic pathways which do not necessarily show clear patterns of over- or under-expression. We report the existence of key metabolic genes which act as hubs of differential co-expression, showing significantly different co-regulation patterns between normal and tumor states. Notably, we find that the extent of differential co-expression of a gene is only weakly correlated with its differential expression, suggesting that the two measures probe different features of metabolism. By leveraging our findings against existing pathway knowledge, we extract networks of functionally connected differentially co-expressed genes and the transcription factors which regulate them. Doing so, we identify a previously unreported network of dysregulated metabolic genes in clear cell renal cell carcinoma transcriptionally controlled by the transcription factor HNF4A. While HNF4A shows no significant differential expression, the co-expression HNF4A and several of its regulated target genes in normal tissue is completely abrogated in tumor tissue. Finally, we aggregate the results of differential co-expression analysis across seven distinct cancer types to identify pairs of metabolic genes which may be recurrently dysregulated. Among our results is a cluster of four genes, all located in the mitochondrial electron transport chain, which show significant loss of co-expression in tumor tissue, pointing to potential mitochondrial dysfunction in these tumor types.', u'Correlations in neuronal spike times are thought to be key to processing in many neural\nsystems. Many measures have been proposed to summarise these correlations and of these\nthe correlation index is widely used and is the standard in studies of spontaneous retinal\nactivity. We show that this measure has two undesirable properties: it is unbounded above\nand confounded by firing rate. We list properties needed for a measure to fairly quantify\nand compare correlations and we propose a novel measure of correlation ? the Spike\nTime Tiling Coefficient. This coefficient, the correlation index and 33 other measures\nof correlation of spike times are blindly tested for the required properties on synthetic\nand experimental data. On the basis of this, we propose a measure (the Spike Time\nTiling Coefficient) to replace the correlation index. To demonstrate the benefits of this\nmeasure, we re-analyse data from seven key studies which previously used the correlation\nindex to investigate the nature of spontaneous activity. We re-analyse data from \u03b22(KO)\nand \u03b22(TG) mutants, mutants lacking connexin isoforms and also the age-dependent\nchanges in wild type and \u03b22(KO) correlations. Re-analysis of the data using the proposed\nmeasure can significantly change the conclusions. It leads to better quantification of\ncorrelations and therefore better inference from the data. We hope that the proposed\nmeasure will have wide applications, and will help clarify the role of activity in retinotopic\nmap formation.', u'Summary: MDTraj is a modern, lightweight and efficient software package for analyzing molecular dynamics simulations. MDTraj reads trajectory data from a wide variety of commonly used formats. It provides a large number of trajectory analysis capabilities including RMSD, DSSP secondary structure assignment and the extraction of common order parameters. The package has a strong focus on interoperability with the wider scientific Python ecosystem, bridging the gap between molecular dynamics data and the rapidly-growing collection of industry-standard statistical analysis and visualization tools in Python.\nAvailability: Package downloads, detailed examples and full documentation are available at http://mdtraj.org. The source code is distributed under the GNU Lesser General Public License at https://github.com/simtk/mdtraj.', u'Intraspecific conflict over vital limited resources can lead to costly fights. How winners compensate for costs and minimize the threat of Pyrrhic victory is not well known. This study tracked the outcomes of experimentally induced field conflicts between highly territorial Acacia ant Crematogaster mimosae colonies using molecular genetics, and discovered that fatal fights significantly decrease within-colony worker relatedness. We find that reduced relatedness can be explained by colonies increasing worker number via 1) non-kin enemy adoption or 2) queen-right colony fusion. We hypothesize that incorporating non-kin enemies can speed recovery from conflict when resource defense is paramount. In the case of queen-right colony fusion, territorial defense benefits could outweigh fitness costs. We provide evidence that winners of colony fights have reduced worker forces to defend larger territories. Field assays indicate that post-fight colonies are more vulnerable to heavy browsing of host trees by mega-herbivores and takeover by competitors following conflict. We discuss the implications of our findings for ant colony cohesion and recognition systems.', u'Recent discoveries of direct acting antivirals against Hepatitis C virus (HCV) have raised hopes of effective treatment via combination therapies. Yet rapid evolution and high diversity of HCV populations, combined with the reality of suboptimal treatment adherence, make drug resistance a clinical and public health concern. We develop a general model incorporating viral dynamics and pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics to assess how suboptimal adherence affects resistance development and clinical outcomes. We derive design principles and adaptive treatment strategies, identifying a high-risk period when missing doses is particularly risky for de novo resistance, and quantifying the number of additional doses needed to compensate when doses are missed. Using data from large-scale resistance assays, we demonstrate that the risk of resistance can be reduced substantially by applying these principles to a combination therapy of daclatasvir and asunaprevir. By providing a mechanistic framework to link patient characteristics to the risk of resistance, these findings show the potential of rational treatment design.', u'Adaptation in response to selection on polygenic phenotypes may occur via subtle allele frequencies shifts at many loci. Current population genomic techniques are not well posed to identify such signals. In the past decade, detailed knowledge about the specific loci underlying polygenic traits has begun to emerge from genome-wide association studies (GWAS). Here we combine this knowledge from GWAS with robust population genetic modeling to identify traits that may have been influenced by local adaptation. We exploit the fact that GWAS provide an estimate of the additive effect size of many loci to estimate the mean additive genetic value for a given phenotype across many populations as simple weighted sums of allele frequencies. We use a general model of neutral genetic value drift for an arbitrary number of populations with an arbitrary relatedness structure. Based on this model, we develop methods for detecting unusually strong correlations between genetic values and specific environmental variables, as well as a generalization of QST/FST comparisons to test for over-dispersion of genetic values among populations. Finally we lay out a framework to identify the individual populations or groups of populations that contribute to the signal of overdispersion. These tests have considerably greater power than their single locus equivalents due to the fact that they look for positive covariance between like effect alleles, and also significantly outperform methods that do not account for population structure. We apply our tests to the Human Genome Diversity Panel (HGDP) dataset using GWAS data for height, skin pigmentation, type 2 diabetes, body mass index, and two inflammatory bowel disease datasets. This analysis uncovers a number of putative signals of local adaptation, and we discuss the biological interpretation and caveats of these results.', u'Comparative genomics studies in primates are extremely restricted because we only have access to a few types of cell lines from non-human apes and to a limited collection of frozen tissues. In order to gain better insight into regulatory processes that underlie variation in complex phenotypes, we must have access to faithful model systems for a wide range of tissues and cell types. To facilitate this, we have generated a panel of 7 fully characterized chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes) induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) lines derived from fibroblasts of healthy donors. All lines appear to be free of integration from exogenous reprogramming vectors, can be maintained using standard iPSC culture techniques, and have proliferative and differentiation potential similar to human and mouse lines. To begin demonstrating the utility of comparative iPSC panels, we collected RNA sequencing data and methylation profiles from the chimpanzee iPSCs and their corresponding fibroblast precursors, as well as from 7 human iPSCs and their precursors, which were of multiple cell type and population origins. Overall, we observed much less regulatory variation within species in the iPSCs than in the somatic precursors, indicating that the reprogramming process has erased many of the differences observed between somatic cells of different origins. We identified 4,918 differentially expressed genes and 3,598 differentially methylated regions between iPSCs of the two species, many of which are novel inter-species differences that were not observed between the somatic cells of the two species. Our panel will help realise the potential of iPSCs in primate studies, and in combination with genomic technologies, transform studies of comparative evolution.', u'During larval settlement and metamorphosis, marine invertebrates undergo changes in habitat, morphology, behavior and physiology. This change between life-cycle stages is often associated with a change in diet or a transition between a non-feeding and a feeding form. How larvae regulate changes in feeding during this life cycle transition is not well understood. Neuropeptides are known to regulate several aspects of feeding, such as food search, ingestion and digestion. The marine annelid Platynereis dumerilii has a complex life cycle with a pelagic non-feeding larval stage and a benthic feeding postlarval stage, linked by the process of settlement. The conserved neuropeptide myoinhibitory peptide (MIP) is a key regulator of larval settlement behavior in Platynereis. Whether MIP also regulates the initiation of feeding, another aspect of the pelagic-to-benthic transition in Platynereis, is currently unknown. Here, we explore the contribution of MIP to feeding in settled Platynereis postlarvae. We find that MIP is expressed in the gut of developing larvae in sensory neurons that densely innervate the foregut and hindgut. Activating MIP signaling by synthetic neuropeptide addition causes increased gut peristalsis and more frequent pharynx extensions leading to increased food intake. Conversely, morpholino-mediated knockdown of MIP expression inhibits feeding. In the long-term, treatment of Platynereis postlarvae with synthetic MIP increases growth rate and results in earlier cephalic metamorphosis. Our results show that MIP activates ingestion and digestion in Platynereis postlarvae. MIP is expressed in sensory-neurosecretory cells of the digestive system indicating that following larval settlement, feeding is initiated by a direct sensory mechanism. This is similar to the mechanism by which MIP induces larval settlement. The pleiotropic roles of MIP may thus have evolved by redeploying the same signaling mechanism in different aspects of a life cycle transition.', u'Methylation of DNA is known to be essential to development and dramatically altered in cancers. The Illumina HumanMethylation450 BeadChip has been used extensively as a cost-effective way to profile nearly half a million CpG sites across the human genome. Here we present DiffVar, a novel method to test for differential variability between sample groups. DiffVar employs an empirical Bayes model framework that can take into account any experimental design and is robust to outliers. We applied DiffVar to several datasets from The Cancer Genome Atlas, as well as an aging dataset. DiffVar is available in the missMethyl Bioconductor R package.', u'We have built a statistical package called Ballgown for estimating differential expression of genes, transcripts, or exons from RNA sequencing experiments. Ballgown is designed to work with the popular Cufflinks transcript assembly software and uses well-motivated statistical methods to provide estimates of changes in expression. It permits statistical analysis at the transcript level for a wide variety of experimental designs, allows adjustment for confounders, and handles studies with continuous covariates. Ballgown provides improved statistical significance estimates as compared to the Cuffdiff differential expression tool included with Cufflinks. We demonstrate the flexibility of the Ballgown package by re-analyzing 667 samples from the GEUVADIS study to identify transcript-level eQTLs and identify non-linear artifacts in transcript data. Our package is freely available from: https://github.com/alyssafrazee/ballgown', u'The coordination between nuclear and organellar genes is essential to many aspects of eukaryotic life, including basic metabolism, energy production, and ultimately, organismal fitness. Whereas nuclear genes are bi-parentally inherited, mitochondrial and chloroplast genes are almost exclusively maternally inherited, and this asymmetry may lead to a bias in the chromosomal distribution of nuclear genes whose products act in the mitochondria or chloroplasts. In particular, because X-linked genes have a higher probability of co-transmission with organellar genes (2/3) compared to autosomal genes (1/2), selection for co-adaptation has been predicted to lead to an over-representation of nuclear-mitochondrial (N-mt) or nuclear-chloroplast (N-cp) genes on the X chromosome relative to autosomes. In contrast, the occurrence of sexually antagonistic organellar mutations might lead to selection for movement of cyto-nuclear genes from the X chromosome to autosomes to reduce male mutation load. Recent broad-scale comparative studies of N-mt distributions in animals have found evidence for these hypotheses in some species, but not others. Here, we use transcriptome sequences to conduct the first study of the chromosomal distribution of cyto-nuclear interacting genes in a plant species with sex chromosomes (Rumex hastatulus; Polygonaceae). We found no evidence of under- or over-representation of either N-mt or N-cp genes on the X chromosome, and thus no support for either the co-adaptation or the sexual-conflict hypothesis. We discuss how our results from a species with recently evolved sex chromosomes fit into an emerging picture of the evolutionary forces governing the chromosomal distribution of N-mt and N-cp genes.', u'We introduce a Liability Threshold Mixed Linear Model (LTMLM) association statistic for ascertained case-control studies that increases power vs. existing mixed model methods, with a well-controlled false-positive rate.  Recent work has shown that existing mixed model methods suffer a loss in power under case-control ascertainment, but no solution has been proposed.  Here, we solve this problem using a chi-square score statistic computed from posterior mean liabilities (PML) under the liability threshold model. Each individual\u2019s PML is conditional not only on that individual\u2019s case-control status, but also on every individual\u2019s case-control status and on the genetic relationship matrix obtained from the data.  The PML are estimated using a multivariate Gibbs sampler, with the liability-scale phenotypic covariance matrix based on the genetic relationship matrix (GRM) and a heritability parameter estimated via Haseman-Elston regression on case-control phenotypes followed by transformation to liability scale.  In simulations of unrelated individuals, the LTMLM statistic was correctly calibrated and achieved higher power than existing mixed model methods in all scenarios tested, with the magnitude of the improvement depending on sample size and severity of case-control ascertainment.  In a WTCCC2 multiple sclerosis data set with >10,000 samples, LTMLM was correctly calibrated and attained a 4.1% improvement (P=0.007) in chi-square statistics (vs. existing mixed model methods) at 75 known associated SNPs, consistent with simulations.  Larger increases in power are expected at larger sample sizes. In conclusion, an increase in power over existing mixed model methods is available for ascertained case-control studies of diseases with low prevalence.', u'A recent hypothesis has proposed a glucose-lactate metabolic symbiosis between adjacent hypoxic and oxygenated regions of a developing tumour, and proposed a treatment strategy to target this symbiosis. However, in vivo experimental support remains inconclusive. Here we develop a minimal spatial mathematical model of glucose-lactate metabolism to examine, in principle, whether metabolic symbiosis is plausible in human tumours, and to assess the potential impact of inhibiting it. We find that symbiosis is a robust feature of our model system---although on the length scale at which oxygen supply is diffusion-limited, its occurrence requires very high cellular metabolic activity---and that necrosis in the tumour core is reduced in the presence of symbiosis. Upon simulating therapeutic inhibition of lactate uptake, we predict that targeted treatment increases the extent of tissue oxygenation without increasing core necrosis. The oxygenation effect is correlated strongly with the extent of wildtype hypoxia and only weakly with wildtype symbiotic behaviour, and therefore may be promising for radiosensitisation of hypoxic, lactate-consuming tumours even if they do not exhibit a spatially well-defined symbiosis. Finally, we conduct a set of in vitro experiments on the U87 glioblastoma cell line to facilitate preliminary speculation as to where highly malignant tumours might fall in our parameter space, and find that these experiments suggest a weakly symbiotic regime for U87 cells, which raises the new question of what relationship exists between symbiosis---if indeed it occurs in vivo---and tumour malignancy.', u'Recent advances in nucleic acids engineering introduced several RNA-based regulatory components for\nsynthetic gene circuits, expanding the toolsets to engineer organisms. In this work, we designed genetic circuits implementing an RNA aptamer previously described to have the capability of binding to the T7 RNA polymerase and inhibiting its activity in vitro. Using in vitro transcription assays, we first demonstrated the utility of the RNA aptamer in combination with programmable synthetic transcription networks. As a step to quickly assess the feasibility of aptamer functions in vivo, a cell-free expression system was used as a breadboard to emulate the\nin vivo conditions of E. coli. We tested the aptamer and its three sequence variants in the cell-free expression system, verifying the aptamer functionality in the cell-free testbed. In vivo expression of aptamer and its variants demonstrated control over GFP expression driven by T7 RNA polymerase with different response curves, indicating its ability to serve as building blocks for both logic circuits and transcriptional cascades. This work elucidates the potential of RNA-based regulators for cell programming with improved controllability leveraging the fast production and degradation time scales of RNA molecules.', u'When models of quantitative genetic variation are built from population genetic first principles, several assumptions are often made. One of the most important assumptions is that traits are controlled by many genes of small effect. This leads to a prediction of a Gaussian trait distribution in the population, via the Central Limit Theorem. Since these biological assumptions are often unknown or untrue, we characterized how finite numbers of loci or large mutational effects can impact the sampling distribution of a quantitative trait. To do so, we developed a neutral coalescent-based framework, allowing us to experiment freely with the number of loci and the underlying mutational model. Through both analytical theory and simulation we found the normality assumption was highly sensitive to the details of the mutational process, with the greatest discrepancies arising when the number of loci was small or the mutational kernel was heavy-tailed. In particular, fat-tailed mutational kernels result in multimodal sampling distributions for any number of loci. An empirical analysis of 7079 expressed genes in 49 Neurospora crassa strains identified 116 genes with non-normal sampling distributions. Several genes showed evidence of multimodality and/or skewness, suggesting the importance of their genetic architecture. Since selection models and robust neutral models may produce qualitatively similar sampling distributions, we advise extra caution should be taken when interpreting model-based results for poorly understood systems of quantitative traits.', u'Breast cancer comprises multiple tumor entities associated with different biological features and clinical behaviors, making individualized medicine a powerful tool to bring the right drug to the right patient. Next generation sequencing of RNA (RNA-Seq) is a suitable method to detect targets for individualized treatment. Challenges that arise are i) preprocessing and analyzing RNA-Seq data in the n-of-1 setting, ii) extracting clinically relevant and actionable targets from complex data, iii) integrating drug databases, and iv) reporting results to clinicians in a timely and understandable manner. To address these challenges, we present OncoRep, an RNA-Seq based n-of-1 reporting tool for breast cancer patients. It reports molecular classification, altered genes and pathways, gene fusions, clinically actionable mutations and drug recommendations. It visualizes the data in an approachable html-based interactive report and a PDF clinical report, providing the clinician and tumor board with a tool to guide the treatment decision making process. OncoRep is free and open-source, thereby offering a platform for future development and innovation by the community.', u"Farming was established in Central Europe by the Linearbandkeramik culture (LBK), a well-investigated archaeological horizon, which emerged in the Carpathian Basin, in today's Hungary. However, the genetic background of the LBK genesis has not been revealed yet. Here we present 9 Y chromosomal and 84 mitochondrial DNA profiles from Mesolithic, Neolithic Star\u010devo and LBK sites (7th/6th millennium BC) from the Carpathian Basin and south-eastern Europe. We detect genetic continuity of both maternal and paternal elements during the initial spread of agriculture, and confirm the substantial genetic impact of early farming south-eastern European and Carpathian Basin cultures on Central European populations of the 6th-4th millennium BC. Our comprehensive Y chromosomal and mitochondrial DNA population genetic analyses demonstrate a clear affinity of the early farmers to the modern Near East and Caucasus, tracing the expansion from that region through south-eastern Europe and the Carpathian Basin into Central Europe. Our results also reveal contrasting patterns for male and female genetic diversity in the European Neolithic, suggesting patrilineal descent system and patrilocal residential rules among the early farmers.", u'Background: Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL) presents two subtypes which have drastically different clinical outcomes. So far, these two subtypes are not associated to clear differences in gene expression profiles. Interestingly, recent results have highlighted important roles for heterogeneity, both at the genetic and at the epigenetic level in CLL progression.\nResults: We propose to use gene expression variability across patients to investigate differences between the two CLL subtypes. We find that the most aggressive type of this disease shows higher variability of gene expression across patients and we elaborate on this observation to produce a method that classifies patients into clinical subtypes. Finally, we find that, overall, genes that show higher variability in the aggressive subtype are related to cell cycle, development and inter-cellular communication, probably related to faster progression of this disease subtype. \nConclusions: There are strong relations between disease subtype and gene expression variability linking significantly increased expression variability to phenotypes such as aggressiveness and resistance to therapy in CLL.', u'Summary: We present a tool, diCal-IBD, for detecting identity-by-descent (IBD) tracts between pairs of genomic sequences. Our method builds on a recent demographic inference method based on the coalescent with recombination, and is able to incorporate demographic information as a prior. Simulation study shows that diCal-IBD has significantly higher recall and precision than that of existing SNP-based IBD detection methods, while retaining reasonable accuracy for IBD tracts as small as 0.1 cM.\nAvailability: http://sourceforge.net/projects/dical-ibd\nContact:\nyss@eecs.berkeley.edu', u'The marine polychaete Streblospio benedicti exhibits two distinct larval types, making it a model for the study of developmental evolution. Females produce either large eggs or small ones, which develop into distinct lecithotrophic or planktotrophic larvae with concomitant morphological and life-history differences. Here, we investigate the inheritance of key morphological traits that distinguish the larval types. We use genetic crosses to establish the influence of maternal and zygotic differences on larval phenotypes. We find a large maternal effect on larval size and the number of larval chaetae, while the number and length of these chaetae are also strongly influenced by zygotic genotype. Interestingly, the distribution of larval phenotypes produced by these crosses suggests traits intermediate to the two parental types should not be uncommon. Yet, despite gene flow between the types in natural populations, such intermediates are rarely found in nature, suggesting that selection may be maintaining distinct larval modes.', u'Heritable differences in gene expression between individuals are an important source of phenotypic variation. The question of how closely the effects of genetic variation on protein levels mirror those on mRNA levels remains open. Here, we addressed this question by using ribosome profiling to examine how genetic differences between two strains of the yeast S. cerevisiae affect translation. Strain differences in translation were observed for hundreds of genes. Allele specific measurements in the diploid hybrid between the two strains revealed roughly half as many cis-acting effects on translation as were observed for mRNA levels. In both the parents and the hybrid, most effects on translation were of small magnitude, such that the direction of an mRNA difference was typically reflected in a concordant footprint difference. The relative importance of cis and trans acting variation on footprint levels was similar to that for mRNA levels. There was a tendency for translation to cause larger footprint differences than expected given the respective mRNA differences. This is in contrast to translational differences between yeast species that have been reported to more often oppose than reinforce mRNA differences. Finally, we catalogued instances of premature translation termination in the two yeast strains and also found several instances where erroneous reference gene annotations lead to apparent nonsense mutations that in fact reside outside of the translated gene body. Overall, genetic influences on translation subtly modulate gene expression differences, and translation does not create strong discrepancies between genetic influences on mRNA and protein levels.', u"The Maximum Entropy Theory of Ecology (METE) is a unified theory of biodiversity that attempts to simultaneously predict patterns of species abundance, size, and spatial structure. The spatial predictions of this theory have repeatedly performed well at predicting diversity patterns across scales. However, the theoretical development and evaluation of METE has focused on predicting patterns that ignore inter-site spatial correlations. As a result the theory has not been evaluated using one of the core components of spatial structure.  We develop and test a semi-recursive version of METE?s spatially explicit predictions for the distance decay relationship of community similarity and compare METE?s performance to the classic random placement model of completely random species distributions. This provides a better understanding and stronger test of METE?s spatial community predictions. We analytically derived and simulated METE?s spatially explicit expectations for the Sorensen index of community similarity. We then compared the distance decay of community similarity of 16 mapped plant communities to METE and the random placement model. The version of METE we examined was successful at capturing the general functional form of empirical distance decay relationships, a negative power function relationship between community similarity and distance. However, the semi-recursive approach consistently over-predicted the degree and rate of species turnover and yielded worse predictions than the random placement model. Our results suggest that while METE's current spatial models accurately predict the spatial scaling of species occupancy, and therefore core ecological patterns like the species-area relationship, its semi-recursive form does not accurately characterize spatially-explicit patterns of correlation. More generally, this suggests that tests of spatial theories based only on the species-area relationship may appear to support the underlying theory despite significant deviations in important aspects of spatial structure.", u'The identification of modules or communities of related variables is a key step in the analysis and modelling of biological systems. Many module identification procedures are available, but few of these can determine the module partitions best fitting a given dataset in the absence of previous information, in an unsupervised way, and when the links between variables have different weights. Here I propose such a procedure, which uses the stability under bootstrap resampling of different alternative module structures as a criterion to identify the structure best fitting to a set of variables. In its present implementation, the procedure uses linear correlations as link weights. Computer simulations show that the procedure is useful for problems involving moderate numbers of variables, such as those commonly found in gene regulation cascades or metabolic pathways, and also that it can detect hierarchical network structures, in which modules are composed of smaller sub modules. The procedure becomes less practical as the number of variables increases, due to increases in processing time.The proposed procedure may be a valuable and robust network analysis tool. Because it is based on comparing the amount of evidence for different module partitions structures, this procedure may detect the existence of hierarchical network structures.', u'The bottleneck for the rapid calculation of the root-mean-square deviation in atomic coordinates (RMSD) between pairs of protein structures for large numbers of conformations is the evaluation of a (3xN) x (Nx3) matrix product over conformation pairs. Here we describe two matrix multiply routines specialized for the 3xN case that are able to significantly outperform (by up to 3X) off- the-shelf high-performance linear algebra libraries for this computation, reaching machine limits on performance. The routines are implemented in C and Python libraries, and are available at https://github.com/simtk/IRMSD.', u'Recent studies have consistently inferred high rates of adaptive molecular evolution between Drosophila species. At the same time, the Drosophila genome evolves under different rates of recombination, which results in partial genetic linkage between alleles at neighboring genomic loci. Here we analyze how linkage correlations affect adaptive evolution. We develop a new inference method for adaptation that takes into account the effect on an allele at a focal site caused by neighboring deleterious alleles (background selection) and by neighboring adaptive substitutions (hitchhiking). Using complete genome sequence data and fine-scale recombination maps, we infer a highly heterogeneous scenario of adaptation in Drosophila. In high-recombining regions, about 50% of all amino acid substitutions are adaptive, together with about 20% of all substitutions in proximal intergenic regions. In low-recombining regions, only a small fraction of the amino acid substitutions are adaptive, while hitchhiking accounts for the majority of these changes. Hitchhiking of deleterious alleles generates a substantial collateral cost of adaptation, leading to a fitness decline of about 30/2N per gene and per million years in the lowest-recombining regions. Our results show how recombination shapes rate and efficacy of the adaptive dynamics in eukaryotic genomes.', u'The incorrect alignments are a severe problem in variant calling, and remain as a challenge computational issue in Bioinformatics field.  Although there have been some methods utilizing the re-alignment approach to tackle the misalignments, a standalone re-alignment tool for long sequencing reads is lacking.  Hence, we present a standalone tool to correct the misalignments, called ProbAlign.  It can be integrated into the pipelines of not only variant calling but also other genomic applications.  We demonstrate the use of re-alignment in two diverse and important genomics fields: variant calling and viral quasispecies reconstruction.  First, variant calling results in the Pacific Biosciences SMRT re-sequencing data of NA12878 show that false positives can be reduced by 43.5%, and true positives can be increased by 24.8% averagely, after re-alignment.  Second, results in reconstructing a 5-virus-mix show that the viral population can be completely unraveled, and also the estimation of quasispecies frequencies has been improved, after re-alignment.  ProbAlign is freely available in the PyroTools toolkit (https://github.com/homopolymer/PyroTools).', u'To understand the interplay between environmental stochasticity and Allee effects, we analyze  persistence, asymptotic extinction, and conditional persistence for stochastic difference equations. Our analysis reveals that persistence requires that the geometric mean of fitness at low densities is greater than one. When this geometric mean is less than one, asymptotic extinction occurs with high probability for low initial population densities.  Additionally, if the population only experiences positive density-dependent feedbacks,  conditional persistence occurs provided the geometric mean of fitness at high population densities is greater than one. However, if the population experiences both positive and negative density-dependent feedbacks, conditional persistence only occurs if environmental fluctuations are sufficiently small. We illustrate counter-intuitively that environmental fluctuations can increase the probability of persistence when populations are initially at low densities, and can cause asymptotic extinction of populations experiencing intermediate predation rates despite conditional persistence occurring at higher predation rates.', u'We consider a population living in a patchy environment that varies stochastically in space and time.  The population is composed of two morphs (that is, individuals of the same species with different genotypes). In terms of survival and reproductive success, the associated phenotypes differ only in their habitat selection strategies. We compute invasion rates corresponding to the rates at which the abundance of an initially rare morph increases in the presence of the other morph established at equilibrium.  If both morphs have positive invasion rates when rare, then there is an equilibrium distribution such that the two morphs coexist; that is, there is a protected polymorphism for habitat selection. Alternatively, if one morph has a negative invasion rate when rare, then it is asymptotically displaced by the other morph under all initial conditions where both morphs are present. We refine the characterization of an evolutionary stable strategy for habitat selection from [Schreiber, 2012] in a mathematically rigorous manner.  We provide a necessary and sufficient condition for the existence of an ESS that uses all patches and determine when using a single patch is an ESS.  We also provide an explicit formula for the ESS when there are two habitat types.  We show that adding environmental stochasticity results in an ESS that, when compared to the ESS for the corresponding model without stochasticity, spends less time in patches with larger carrying capacities and possibly makes use of sink patches, thereby practicing a spatial form of bet hedging.', u'In absence of powerful siRNA approaches, the functional characterisation of essential genes in apicomplexan parasites, such as Toxoplasma gondii or Plasmodium falciparum, relies on conditional mutagenesis systems. Here we present a novel strategy based on U1 snRNP-mediated gene silencing. U1 snRNP is critical in pre-mRNA splicing by defining the exon-intron boundaries. When a U1 recognition site is placed into the 3\u2019-terminal exon or adjacent to the termination codon, pre-mRNA is cleaved at the 3\u2019-end and degraded, leading to an efficient knockdown of the gene of interest (GOI). Here we describe a simple one-step approach that combines endogenous tagging with DiCre-mediated positioning of U1 recognition sites adjacent to the termination codon of the GOI which leads to a conditional knockdown of the GOI in Ku80 knockout and RH T. gondii tachyzoites. Specific knockdown mutants of the reporter gene GFP and several endogenous genes of T. gondii including the clathrin heavy chain gene 1 (chc1), the vacuolar protein sorting gene 26 (vps26), and the dynamin-related protein C gene (drpC) were silenced using this new approach. This new gene silencing tool kit allows protein tracking and functional studies simultaneously.', u'BACKGROUND Tenofovir gel is being evaluated for vaginal and rectal pre-exposure prophylaxis against sexual HIV transmission. Because this is a new prevention strategy targeting large numbers of healthy people, we broadly assessed its effects on the mucosa.\nMETHODS AND FINDINGS In MTN-007, a phase 1, randomized, double-blinded rectal microbicide trial, we used systems genomics/proteomics to determine the effect of tenofovir 1% gel, nonoxynol-9 2% gel, placebo gel or no treatment on rectal biopsies taken at baseline, after one application or after seven daily applications (15 subjects/arm). Experiments were repeated using primary vaginal epithelial cells from four healthy women. After seven days of administration, tenofovir 1% gel had broad-ranging biological effects on the rectal mucosa, which were much more pronounced than\u2014but different from\u2014those caused by the detergent nonoxynol-9. Tenofovir profoundly suppressed anti-inflammatory mediators such as interleukin 10; increased T cell densities; caused mitochondrial dysfunction, possibly by blocking PNPT1 expression; and altered regulatory pathways of cell differentiation and survival. Except for leukocyte-derived factors, all these effects were replicated in primary vaginal epithelial cells, which also proliferated significantly faster in tenofovir\u2019s presence.\nCONCLUSIONS Tenofovir\u2019s suppression of anti-inflammatory activity could diminish its prophylactic efficacy over time. The breadth of mucosal changes, including mitochondrial dysfunction and epithelial proliferation, raises questions about its safety for long-term topical use. These findings suggest that a systems biology evaluation of mucosal effects may be beneficial before advancing to large-scale efficacy trials with topical HIV prevention agents that achieve high, long-lasting local drug concentrations.', u'Mammalian genomes are pervasively transcribed, yielding a complex transcriptome with high variability in composition and cellular abundance. While recent efforts have identified thousands of new long non-coding (lnc) RNAs and demonstrated a complex transcriptional repertoire produced by protein-coding (pc) genes, limited progress has been made in distinguishing functional RNA from spurious transcription events. This is partly due to present RNA classification, which is typically based on technical rather than biochemical criteria. Here we devise a strategy to systematically categorize human RNAs by their sensitivity to the ribonucleolytic RNA exosome complex and by the nature of their transcription initiation. These measures are surprisingly effective at correctly classifying annotated transcripts, including lncRNAs of known function. The approach also identifies uncharacterized stable lncRNAs, hidden among a vast majority of unstable transcripts. The predictive power of the approach promises to streamline the functional analysis of known and novel RNAs.', u'A standard methodology in systems neuroscience is to establish correlations between the brain and the world. These correlations have been robustly observed when probing the activity of single neurons. For example, there are cells that activate vigorously when subjects are presented with images of certain celebrities (e.g. the "Jennifer Aniston" neuron, Quiroga et al., 2005). While single neuron measurements provide remarkable insights into the functional specificity of different brain areas, it remains unclear how single cell activity arises from, and contributes to, the collective activity of brain networks. New technologies allow for the simultaneous recording of spikes from hundreds of cells, yet we are still far from observing entire neuronal circuits in action.\n\nAn alternative approach in monitoring neuronal populations is to measure local field potentials (LFPs). These potentials arise from the coordinated activity of thousands of nearby neurons. LFPs often exhibit oscillations of various frequencies, which correlate with different states of awareness, such as alertness, relaxation, or drowsiness. However, establishing correlations between LFPs and specific behavioral events can be challenging, because the contributions of different neurons to the LFP usually cannot be distinguished. In this chapter, we examine LFPs recorded from the rat hippocampus. At first glance, these LFPs appear to bear little relation to the subject\'s changing environment. However, through appropriate signal processing, we find that carried in the structure of the LFP is a remarkably precise stream of information.', u'Handedness in humans\u2013better performance using either the left or right hand\u2013is personally familiar, moderately heritable, and regulated by many genes, including those involved in general body symmetry. But behavioral handedness, i.e. lateralization, is a multifaceted phenomenon. For example, people display clockwise or counter- clockwise biases in their walking behavior that is uncorrelated to their hand dominance, and lateralized behavioral biases have been shown in species as disparate as mice (paw usage), octopi (eye usage), and tortoises (side rolled on during righting). However, the mechanisms by which asymmetries are instilled in behavior are unknown, and a system for studying behavioral handedness in a genetically tractable model system is needed. Here we show that Drosophila melanogaster flies exhibit striking variability in their left-right choice behavior during locomotion. Very strongly biased "left-handed" and "right-handed" individuals are common in every line assayed. The handedness of an individual persists for its lifetime, but is not passed on to progeny, suggesting that mechanisms other than genetics determine individual handedness. We use the Drosophila transgenic toolkit to map a specific set of neurons within the central complex that regulates the strength of behavioral handedness within a line. These findings give insights into choice behaviors and laterality in a simple model organism, and demonstrate that individuals from isogenic populations reared under experimentally identical conditions nevertheless display idiosyncratic behaviors.', u'DNA methylation, and specifically the reversible addition of methyl groups at CpG dinucleotides genome-wide,  represents an important layer that is associated with the regulation of gene expression.  In particular, aberrations in the methylation status have been noted across a diverse set of pathological states, including cancer.  With the rapid development and uptake of large scale sequencing of short DNA fragments, there has been an explosion of data analytic methods for processing and discovering changes in DNA methylation across diverse data types.  In this mini-review, we aim to condense many of the salient challenges, such as experimental design, statistical methods for differential methylation detection and critical considerations such as cell type composition and the potential confounding that can arise from batch effects, into a compact and accessible format.  Our main interests, from a statistical perspective, include the practical use of empirical Bayes or hierarchical models, which have been shown to be immensely powerful and flexible in genomics and the procedures by which control of false discoveries are made.  Of course, there are many critical platform-specific data preprocessing aspects that we do not discuss here.  In addition, we do not make formal performance comparisons of the methods, but rather describe the commonly used statistical models and many of the pertinent issues; we make some recommendations for further study.', u'Honey bees are important pollinators, requiring floral pollen and nectar for nutrition. Nectar is rich in sugars, but contains additional nutrients, including amino acids (AAs). We tested the preferences of free-flying foragers between 20 AAs at 0.1% w/w in sucrose solutions in an artificial meadow. We found consistent preferences amongst AAs, with essential AAs preferred over nonessential AAs. The preference of foragers correlated negatively with AA induced deviations in pH values, as compared to the control. Next, we quantified tradeoffs between attractive and deterrent AAs at the expense of carbohydrates in nectar. Bees were attracted by phenylalanine, willing to give up 84 units sucrose for 1 unit AA. They were deterred by glycine, and adding 100 or more units of sucrose could resolve to offset 1 unit AA. In addition, we tested physiological effects of AA nutrition on forager homing performance. In a no-choice context, caged bees showed indifference to 0.1% proline, leucine, glycine or phenylanaline in sucrose solutions. Furthermore, flight tests gave no indication that AA nutrition affected flight capacity directly. In contrast, low carbohydrate nutrition reduced the performance of bees, with important methodological implications for homing studies that evaluate the effect of substances that may affect imbibition of sugar solution. In conclusion, low AA concentrations in nectar relative to pollen suggest a limited role in bee nutrition. Most of the 20 AAs evoked a neutral to a mild deterrent response in bees, thus it seems unlikely that bees respond to AAs in nectar as a cue to assess nutritional quality. Nonetheless, free choice behavior of foraging bees is influenced, for instance by phenylalanine and glycine. Thus, AAs in nectar may affect plant-pollinator interactions and thereby exhibit a selective pressure on the flora in the honey bee habitat.', u'Gene expression variation is well documented in human populations and its genetic architecture has been extensively explored. However, we still know little about the genetic architecture of gene expression variation in other species, particularly our closest living relatives, the nonhuman primates. To address this gap, we performed an RNA sequencing (RNA-seq)-based study of 63 wild baboons, members of the intensively studied Amboseli baboon population in Kenya. Our study design allowed us to measure gene expression levels and identify genetic variants using the same data set, enabling us to perform complementary mapping of putative cis-acting expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) and measurements of allele-specific expression (ASE) levels. We discovered substantial evidence for genetic effects on gene expression levels in this population. Surprisingly, we found more power to detect individual eQTL in the baboons relative to a HapMap human data set of comparable size, probably as a result of greater genetic variation, enrichment of SNPs with high minor allele frequencies, and longer-range linkage disequilibrium in the baboons. eQTL were most likely to be identified for lineage-specific, rapidly evolving genes. Interestingly, genes with eQTL significantly overlapped between the baboon and human data sets, suggesting that some genes may tolerate more genetic perturbation than others, and that this property may be conserved across species. Finally, we used a Bayesian sparse linear mixed model to partition genetic, demographic, and early environmental contributions to variation in gene expression levels. We found a strong genetic contribution to gene expression levels for almost all genes, while individual demographic and environmental effects tended to be more modest. Together, our results establish the feasibility of eQTL mapping using RNA-seq data alone, and act as an important first step towards understanding the genetic architecture of gene expression variation in nonhuman primates.', u"Pollen is the main protein and lipid source for honey bees (Apis mellifera), and nutritionally impoverished landscapes pose a threat to colony development. To determine colony nutritional demands, we analyzed a yearly cycle of bee-collected pollen from colonies in the field and compared it to colony worker production and honey bee body composition, for the first time in social insects. We monitored monthly bee production in ten colonies at each of seven sites throughout Israel, and trapped pollen bi-monthly in five additional colonies at each of four of these sites. Pollen mixtures from each sampling date and site were analyzed for weight, total protein, total fatty acids (FAs), and FA composition. Compared to more temperate climates, the eastern Mediterranean allows a relatively high yearly colony growth of ca. 300,000 to 400,000 bees. Colonies at higher elevation above sea level showed lower growth rates. Queen egg-laying rate did not seem to limit growth, as peaks in capped brood areas showed that queens lay a prolific 2,000 eggs a day on average, with up to 3,300 eggs in individual cases. Pollen uptake varied significantly among sites and seasons, with an overall annual mean total 16.8 kg per colony, containing 7.14 kg protein and 677 g fat. Overall mean pollen protein content was high (39.8%), and mean total FA content was 3.8%. Production cost, as expressed by the amount of nutrient used per bee, was least variable for linoleic acid and protein, suggesting these as the best descriptive variables for total number of bees produced. Linolenic acid levels in pollen during the autumn were relatively low, and supplementing colonies with this essential FA may mitigate potential nutritional deficiency. The essentiality of linoleic and linolenic acids was consistent with these FAs' tendency to be present at higher levels in collected pollen than in the expected nutrients in bee bodies, demonstrating a well-developed adjustment between pollinator nutritional demands and the nutritional value of food offered by pollinated plants.", u'Conditionally functional mutations are an important class of natural genetic variation, yet little is known about their prevalence in natural populations or their contribution to disease risk. Here, we describe a vast reserve of cryptic genetic variation, alleles that are normally silent but which affect phenotype when the function of other genes is perturbed, in the gene networks of C. elegans embryogenesis. We find evidence that cryptic-effect loci are ubiquitous and segregate at intermediate frequencies in the wild. The cryptic alleles demonstrate low developmental pleiotropy, in that specific, rather than general, perturbations are required to reveal them. Our findings underscore the importance of genetic background in characterizing gene function and provide a model for the expression of conditionally functional effects that may be fundamental in basic mechanisms of trait evolution and the genetic basis of disease susceptibility.', u'Extreme fetal growth is associated with increased susceptibility to a range of adult diseases through an unknown mechanism of cellular memory.  We tested whether heritable epigenetic processes in long-lived CD34+ hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSPCs) showed evidence for re-programming associated with the extremes of fetal growth.  Here we show that both fetal growth restriction and over-growth are associated with global shifts towards DNA hypermethylation, targeting cis-regulatory elements in proximity to genes involved in glucose homeostasis and stem cell function.  A sexually dimorphic response was found, intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) associated with substantially greater epigenetic dysregulation in males but large for gestational age (LGA) growth affecting females predominantly.  The findings are consistent with extreme fetal growth interacting with variable fetal susceptibility to influence cellular aging and metabolic characteristics through epigenetic mechanisms, potentially generating biomarkers that could identify infants at higher risk for chronic disease later in life.', u'The gene regulatory mechanisms underlying the rapid replenishment of snake venom following expenditure are currently unknown. Using a comparative transcriptomic approach we find that venomous and non-venomous species produce similar numbers of secreted products in their venom or salivary glands and that only one transcription factor (Tbx3) is expressed in venom glands but not salivary glands. We also find evidence for temporal variation in venom production. We have generated a draft genome sequence for the painted saw-scaled viper, Echis coloratus, and identified conserved transcription factor binding sites in the upstream regions of venom genes. We find binding sites to be conserved across members of the same gene family, but not between gene families, indicating that multiple gene regulatory networks are involved in venom production. Finally, we suggest that negative regulation may be important for rapid activation of the venom replenishment cycle.', u'Summary: Here we introduce a novel web-infrastructure for\ndifferential network analysis. The aim of the web-site is to\nprovide a comprehensive collection of tools for network inference,\nnetwork comparison and network reproducibility analysis. Four main\nprocesses are available through the web service: the network\ninference process which include 11 reconstruction algorithms, the\nnetwork distance process with 3 available metrics, the network\nstability process which includes all the network reconstruction\nmethods and network distances and the netwok statistic process\nwhich computes the most common measure for network characterization.\nWe introduce here a novel infrastructure which allows the user-\ninterface logic to be separated from computing services and the\nasynchronous task management. Task submission is implemented\nmimicking the high performance computing queue submission system\nwhich allows to run multiple jobs without affecting the front-end server.\nAvailability and Implementation: The web-site is available at\nhttps://renette.fbk.eu, the implementation is based on the\ndjango framework and Apache, with all major browsers supported.\nFurthermore, the whole project is Open Source under GPLv2 and\nthe code is available on GitHub at https://github.com/MPBA/\nrenette for local installation.', u'The formation of the Primitive Streak is the first visible sign of gastrulation, the process by which the three germ layers are formed from a single epithelium during early development. Embryonic Stem Cells (ESCs) provide a good system to understand the molecular and cellular events associated with these processes. Previous work, both in embryos and in culture, has shown how converging signals from both Nodal/TGF\u03b2R and Wnt/\u03b2-Catenin signalling pathways specify cells to adopt a Primitive Streak like fate and direct them to undertake an epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT). However, many of these approaches have relied on genetic analyses without taking into account the temporal progression of events within single cells. In addition, it is still unclear as to what extent events in the embryo are able to be reproduced in culture. Here, we combine flow-cytometry and a quantitative live single-cell imaging approach to demonstrate how the controlled differentiation of mouse ESCs (mESCs) towards a Primitive Streak fate in culture results in cells displaying many of the characteristics observed during early mouse development including transient Brachyury expression, EMT and increased motility. We also find that the EMT initiates the process, and this is both fuelled and terminated by the action of Bra, whose expression is dependent on the EMT and \u03b2-Catenin activity. As a consequence of our analysis, we propose that a major output of Brachyury expression is in controlling the velocity of the cells that are transiting out of the Primitive Streak.', u'Summary: Next-generation sequencing platforms for measuring digital expression such as RNA-Seq are displacing traditional microarray-based methods in biological experiments. The detection of differentially expressed genes between groups of biological conditions has led to the development of numerous bioinformatics tools, but so far few, exploit the expanded dynamic range afforded by the new technologies. We present edgeRun, an R package that implements an unconditional exact test that is a more powerful version of the exact test in edgeR. This increase in power is especially pronounced for experiments with as few as 2 replicates per condition, for genes with low total expression and with large biological coefficient of variation. In comparison with a panel of other tools, edgeRun consistently captures functionally similar differentially expressed genes. \nAvailability: The package is freely available under the MIT license from CRAN (http://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/edgeRun)\nContact: edimont@mail.harvard.edu', u'In the life sciences, many measurement methods yield only the relative abundances of different components in a sample. With such relative---or compositional---data, differential expression needs careful interpretation, and correlation---a statistical workhorse for analyzing pairwise relationships---is an inappropriate measure of association. Using yeast gene expression data we show how correlation can be misleading and present proportionality as a valid alternative for relative data. We show how the strength of proportionality between two variables can be meaningfully and interpretably described by a new statistic \u03c6 which can be used instead of correlation as the basis of familiar analyses and visualization methods, including co-expression networks and clustered heatmaps.\n\nWhile the main aim of this study is to present proportionality as a means to analyse relative data, it also raises intriguing questions about the molecular mechanisms underlying the proportional regulation of a range of yeast genes.', u'Text mining is a flexible technology that can be applied to numerous different tasks in biology and medicine. We present a system for extracting disease\u2013gene associations from biomedical abstracts. The system consists of a highly efficient dictionary-based tagger for named entity recognition of human genes and diseases, which we combine with a scoring scheme that takes into account co-occurrences both within and between sentences. We show that this approach is able to extract half of all manually curated associations with a false positive rate of only 0.16%. Nonetheless, text mining should not stand alone, but be combined with other types of evidence. For this reason, we have developed the DISEASES resource, which integrates the results from text mining with manually curated disease\u2013gene associations, cancer mutation data, and genome-wide association studies from existing databases. The DISEASES resource is accessible through a user-friendly web interface at http://diseases.jensenlab.org/, where the text-mining software and all associations are also freely available for download.', u'Cross-frequency coupling (CFC) has been  proposed to coordinate neural dynamics across spatial and temporal scales. Despite its potential relevance for understanding healthy and pathological brain function, the standard CFC analysis and physiological interpretation come with fundamental problems. For example, apparent CFC can appear because of spectral correlations due to common non-stationarities that may arise in the total absence of interactions between neural frequency components. To provide a road map towards an improved mechanistic understanding of CFC, we organize the available and potential novel statistical/modeling approaches according to their biophysical interpretability. While we do not provide solutions for all the problems described, we provide a list of practical recommendations to avoid common errors and to enhance the interpretability of CFC analysis.', u'Many applications in translational medicine require the understanding of how diseases progress through the accumulation of persistent events. Specialized Bayesian networks called monotonic progression networks offer a statistical framework for modeling this sort of phenomenon. Current machine learning tools to reconstruct Bayesian networks from data are powerful but not suited to progression models. We combine the technological advances in machine learning with a rigorous philosophical theory of causation to produce Polaris, a scalable algorithm for learning progression networks that accounts for causal or biological noise as well as logical relations among genetic events, making the resulting models easy to interpret qualitatively. We tested Polaris on synthetically generated data and showed that it outperforms a widely used machine learning algorithm and approaches the performance of the competing special-purpose, albeit clairvoyant algorithm that is given a priori information about the model parameters. We also prove that under certain rather mild conditions, Polaris is guaranteed to converge for sufficiently large sample sizes. Finally, we applied Polaris to point mutation and copy number variation data in Prostate cancer from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and found that there are likely three distinct progressions, one major androgen driven progression, one major non-androgen driven progression, and one novel minor androgen driven progression.', u'Because mutations are mostly deleterious, mutation rates should be reduced by natural selection. However, mutations also provide the raw material for adaptation. Therefore, evolutionary theory suggests that the mutation rate must balance between adaptability - the ability to adapt - and adaptedness - the ability to remain adapted. We model an asexual population crossing a fitness valley and analyze the rate of complex adaptation with and without stress-induced mutagenesis - the increase of mutation rates in response to stress or maladaptation. We show that stress-induced mutagenesis increases the rate of complex adaptation without reducing the population mean fitness, thus breaking the evolutionary trade-off between adaptability and adaptedness. Our theoretical results support the hypothesis that stress-induced mutagenesis promotes adaptation and provide quantitative predictions of the rate of complex adaptation with different mutational strategies.', u'Epistasis can make adaptation highly unpredictable, rendering evolutionary trajectories contingent on the chance effects of initial mutations. We used experimental evolution in Saccharomyces cerevisiae to quantify this effect, finding dramatic differences in adaptability between 64 closely related genotypes. Despite these differences, sequencing of 105 evolved clones showed no significant effect of initial genotype on future sequence-level evolution. Instead, reconstruction experiments revealed a consistent pattern of diminishing returns epistasis. Our results suggest that many beneficial mutations affecting a variety of biological processes are globally coupled: they interact strongly, but only through their combined effect on fitness. Sequence-level adaptation is thus highly stochastic. Nevertheless, fitness evolution is strikingly predictable because differences in adaptability are determined only by global fitness-mediated epistasis, not by the identity of individual mutations.', u'Snake venom has been hypothesised to have originated and diversified via a process that involves duplication of genes encoding body proteins with subsequent recruitment of the copy to the venom gland, where natural selection acts to develop or increase toxicity. However, gene duplication is known to be a rare event in vertebrate genomes and the recruitment of duplicated genes to a novel expression domain (neofunctionalisation) is an even rarer process that requires the evolution of novel combinations of transcription factor binding sites in upstream regulatory regions. Therefore, whilst this hypothesis concerning the evolution of snake venom is therefore very unlikely and should be regarded with caution, it is nonetheless often assumed to be established fact, hindering research into the true origins of snake venom toxins. To critically evaluate this hypothesis we have generated transcriptomic data for body tissues and salivary and venom glands from five species of venomous and non-venomous reptiles. Our comparative transcriptomic analysis of these data reveals that snake venom does not evolve via the hypothesised process of duplication and recruitment of genes encoding body proteins. Indeed, our results show that many proposed venom toxins are in fact expressed in a wide variety of body tissues, including the salivary gland of non-venomous reptiles and that these genes have therefore been restricted to the venom gland following duplication, not recruited. Thus snake venom evolves via the duplication and subfunctionalisation of genes encoding existing salivary proteins. These results highlight the danger of the elegant and intuitive ?just-so story? in evolutionary biology.', u'Omics Pipe (https://bitbucket.org/sulab/omics_pipe) is a computational platform that automates multi-omics data analysis pipelines on high performance compute clusters and in the cloud. It supports best practice published pipelines for RNA-seq, miRNA-seq, Exome-seq, Whole Genome sequencing, ChIP-seq analyses and automatic processing of data from The Cancer Genome Atlas.  Omics Pipe provides researchers with a tool for reproducible, open source and extensible next generation sequencing analysis.', u'Recent reports have proposed a new paradigm for obtaining mature somatic cell types from fibroblasts without going through a pluripotent state, by briefly expressing canonical iPSC reprogramming factors Oct4, Sox2, Klf4, c-Myc (abbreviated as OSKM) in cells expanded in lineage differentiation promoting conditions. Here we apply genetic lineage tracing for endogenous Nanog locus and X chromosome reactivation during OSKM induced trans-differentiation, as these molecular events mark final stages for acquisition of induced pluripotency. Remarkably, the majority of reprogrammed cardiomyocytes or neural stem cells derived from mouse fibroblasts via OSKM mediated trans-differentiation (~>90%), are attained after transient acquisition of pluripotency, and followed by rapid differentiation. Our findings underscore a molecular and functional coupling between inducing pluripotency and obtaining \u201ctrans-differentiated\u201d somatic cells via OSKM induction, and have implications on defining molecular trajectories assumed during different cell reprogramming methods.', u'Haplotype resolved genome sequence information is of growing interest due to its applications in both population genetics and medical genetics. Here, we assess the ability to correctly reconstruct haplotype sequences using fosmid pooled sequencing and apply the sequences to explore historical population relationships. We resolved phased haplotypes of sample NA19240, a trio child from the Yoruba HapMap collection using pools of a total of 521,783 fosmid clones. We phased 93% of heterozygous SNPs into haplotype-resolved blocks, with an N50 size of 318kb. Using trio information from HapMap, we linked adjacent blocks together to form paternal and maternal alleles, producing near-to-complete haplotypes. Comparison with 33 individual fosmids sequenced using capillary sequencing shows that our reconstructed sequence haplotypes have a sequence error rate of 0.005%. Utilizing fosmid-phased haplotypes from a Yoruba, a European and a Gujarati sample, we analyzed population history and inferred population split times. We date the initial split between Yoruba and out of African populations to 90,000-100,000 years ago with substantial gene flow occurring until nearly 50,000 years ago, and obtain congruent results with the autosomes and the X chromosome. We estimate that the initial split between European and Gujarati population occurred around 45,000 years ago and gene flow ended around 28,000 years ago. Analysis of X vs autosome inferred effective population sizes reveals distinct epochs in which the ratio of the effective number of males to females changes. We find a period of female bias during the ancestral human lineage up to 1 million years ago and a short period of male bias in Yoruba lineage from 160-400 thousand years ago. We demonstrate the construction of haplotype sequences of sufficient completeness and accuracy for population genetic analysis. As experimental and analytic methods improve, these approaches will continue to shed new light on the history of populations.', u'Gastropods are a highly diverse clade of molluscs that includes many familiar animals, such as limpets, snails, slugs, and sea slugs. It is one of the most abundant groups of animals in the sea and the only molluscan lineage that has successfully colonised land. Yet the relationships among and within its constituent clades have remained in flux for over a century of morphological, anatomical and molecular study. Here we re-evaluate gastropod phylogenetic relationships by collecting new transcriptome data for 40 species and analysing them in combination with publicly available genomes and transcriptomes. Our datasets include all five main gastropod clades: Patellogastropoda, Vetigastropoda, Neritimorpha, Caenogastropoda and Heterobranchia. We use two different methods to assign orthology, subsample each of these matrices into three increasingly dense subsets, and analyse all six of these supermatrices with two different models of molecular evolution. All twelve analyses yield the same unrooted network connecting the five major gastropod lineages. This reduces deep gastropod phylogeny to three alternative rooting hypotheses. These results reject the prevalent hypothesis of gastropod phylogeny, Orthogastropoda. Our dated tree is congruent with a possible end-Permian recovery of some gastropod clades, namely Caenogastropoda and some Heterobranchia subclades.', u'Population structure inference with genetic data has been motivated by a variety of applications in population genetics and genetic association studies. Several approaches have been proposed for the identification of genetic ancestry differences in samples where study participants are assumed to be unrelated, including principal components analysis (PCA), multi-dimensional scaling (MDS), and model-based methods for proportional ancestry estimation. Many genetic studies, however, include individuals with some degree of relatedness, and existing methods for inferring genetic ancestry fail in related samples. We present a method, PC-AiR, for robust population structure inference in the presence of known or cryptic relatedness. PC-AiR utilizes genome-screen data and an efficient algorithm to identify a diverse subset of unrelated individuals that is representative of all ancestries in the sample. The PC-AiR method directly performs PCA on the identified ancestry representative subset and then predicts components of variation for all remaining individuals based on genetic similarities. In simulation studies and in applications to real data from Phase III of the HapMap Project, we demonstrate that PC-AiR provides a substantial improvement over existing approaches for population structure inference in related samples.  We also demonstrate significant efficiency gains, where a single axis of variation from PC-AiR provides better prediction of ancestry in a variety of structure settings than using ten (or more) components of variation from widely used PCA and MDS approaches.  Finally, we illustrate that PC-AiR can provide improved population stratification correction over existing methods in genetic association studies with population structure and relatedness.', u'Several different methods confirm that a number of micro-satellites on the human Y-chromosome have allele distributions with different variances in different haplogroups, after adjusting for coalescent times. This can be demonstrated through both heteroscedasticity tests and by poor correlation of the variance vectors in different subclades. The most convincing demonstration however is the complete inactivity of some markers in certain subclades \u2013 \u201cmicrosatellite death\u201d, while they are still active in companion subclades. \n\nMany microsatellites have declined in activity as they proceed down through descendant subclades. This appears to confirm the theory of microsatellite life cycles, in which point mutations cause a steady decay in activity. However, the changes are too fast to be caused by point mutations alone, and slippage events may be implicated.\n\nThe rich microsatellite terrain exposed in our large single-haplotype samples provides new opportunities for genotyping and analysis.', u'Surface proteins hemagglutinin (HA) and neuraminidase (NA) of the human influenza A virus evolve under selection pressure to escape the human adaptive immune response and antiviral drug treatments. In addition to these external selection pressures, some mutations in HA are known to affect the adaptive landscape of NA, and vice versa, because these two proteins are physiologically interlinked. However, the extent to which evolution of one protein affects the evolution of the other is unknown. Here we develop a novel phylogenetic method for detecting the signatures of such genetic interactions between mutations in different genes, that is, inter-gene epistasis. Using this method, we show that influenza surface proteins evolve in a coordinated way, with substitutions in HA affecting substitutions in NA and vice versa, at many sites. Of particular interest is our finding that the oseltamivir-resistance mutations in NA in subtype H1N1 were likely facilitated by prior mutations in HA. Our results illustrate that the adaptive landscape of a viral protein is remarkably sensitive to its genomic context and, more generally, imply that the evolution of any single protein must be understood within the context of the entire evolving genome.', u'Binding interactions between proteins and other molecules mediate numerous cellular processes, including metabolism, signaling, and regulation of gene expression.  These interactions evolve in response to changes in the protein\'s chemical or physical environment (such as the addition of an antibiotic), or when genes duplicate and diverge.  Several recent studies have shown the importance of folding stability in constraining protein evolution.  Here we investigate how structural coupling between protein folding and binding -- the fact that most proteins can only bind their targets when folded -- gives rise to evolutionary coupling between the traits of folding stability and binding strength.  Using biophysical and evolutionary modeling, we show how these protein traits can emerge as evolutionary "spandrels" even if they do not confer an intrinsic fitness advantage. In particular, proteins can evolve strong binding interactions that have no functional role but merely serve to stabilize the protein if misfolding is deleterious.  Furthermore, such proteins may have divergent fates, evolving to bind or not bind their targets depending on random mutation events.  These observations may explain the abundance of apparently nonfunctional interactions among proteins observed in high-throughput assays.  In contrast, for proteins with both functional binding and deleterious misfolding, evolution may be highly predictable at the level of biophysical traits: adaptive paths are tightly constrained to first gain extra folding stability and then partially lose it as the new binding function is developed.  These findings have important consequences for our understanding of fundamental evolutionary principles of both natural and engineered proteins.', u'Background\nRecently available whole genome sequences of three citrus species: one Citrus clementina and two Citrus sinensis genomes have made it possible to understand the features of candidate disease resistance genes with nucleotide-binding sites (NBS) domain in Citrus and how NBS genes differ between hybrid and original Citrus species.\nResult\nWe identified and re-annotated NBS genes from three citrus genomes and found similar numbers of NBS genes in those citrus genomes. Phylogenetic analysis of all citrus NBS genes across three genomes showed that there are three approximately evenly numbered groups: one group contains the Toll-Interleukin receptor (TIR) domain and two different groups that contain the Coiled Coil (CC) domain. Motif analysis confirmed that the two groups of CC-containing NBS genes are from different evolutionary origins. We partitioned NBS genes into clades using NBS domain sequence distances and found most clades include NBS genes from all three citrus genomes. This suggests that NBS genes in three citrus genomes may come from shared ancestral origins. We also mapped the re-sequenced reads of three pomelo and three Mandarin orange genomes onto the Citrus sinensis genome. We found that most NBS genes of the hybrid C. sinensis genome have corresponding homologous genes in both pomelo and mandarin genome. The homologous NBS genes in pomelo and mandarin may explain why the NBS genes in their hybrid Citrus sinensis are similar to those in Citrus clementina in this study. Furthermore, sequence variation amongst citrus NBS genes were shaped by multiple independent and shared accelerated mutation accumulation events among different groups of NBS genes and in different citrus genomes. \nConclusion\nOur comparative analyses yield valuable insight into the understanding of the structure, evolution and organization of NBS genes in Citrus genomes. There are significantly more NBS genes in Citrus genomes compared to other plant species. NBS genes in hybrid C. sinensis genomes are very similar to those in progenitor C. clementina genome and they may be derived from possible common ancestral gene copies. Furthermore, our comprehensive analysis showed that there are three groups of plant NBS genes while CC-containing NBS genes can be divided into two groups.', u'Several methods have been proposed to test for introgression across genomes. One method tests for a genome-wide excess of shared derived alleles between taxa using Patterson?s D statistic, but does not establish which loci show such an excess or whether the excess is due to introgression or ancestral population structure. Several recent studies have extended the use of D by applying the statistic to small genomic regions, rather than genome-wide. Here, we use simulations and whole genome data from Heliconius butterflies to investigate the behavior of D in small genomic regions. We find that D is unreliable in this situation as it gives inflated values when effective population size is low, causing D outliers to cluster in genomic regions of reduced diversity. As an alternative, we propose a related statistic f\u0302d, a modified version of a statistic originally developed to estimate the genome-wide fraction of admixture. f\u0302d is not subject to the same biases as D, and is better at identifying introgressed loci. Finally, we show that both D and f\u0302d  outliers tend to cluster in regions of low absolute divergence (dXY), which can confound a recently proposed test for differentiating introgression from shared ancestral variation at individual loci.', u'Finding the specific nucleotides that underlie adaptive variation is a major goal in evolutionary biology, but polygenic traits pose a challenge because the complex genotype-phenotype relationship can obscure the effects of individual alleles. However, natural selection working in large wild populations can shift allele frequencies and indicate functional regions of the genome. Previously, we showed that the two most common alleles of a complex amino acid insertion-deletion polymorphism in the Drosophila insulin receptor show independent, parallel clines in frequency across the North American and Australian continents. Here, we report that the cline is stable over at least a five-year period and that the polymorphism also demonstrates temporal shifts in allele frequency concurrent with seasonal change. We tested the alleles for effects on levels of insulin signaling, fecundity, development time, body size, stress tolerance, and lifespan. We find that the alleles are associated with predictable differences in these traits, consistent with patterns of Drosophila life history variation across geography that likely reflect adaptation to the heterogeneous climatic environment. These results implicate insulin signaling as a major mediator of life history adaptation in Drosophila, and suggest that life history tradeoffs can be explained by extensive pleiotropy at a single locus.', u'Patterns of genetic covariance between characters (represented by the covariance matrix G) play an important role in  morphological evolution, since they interact with the evolutionary forces acting over populations. They are also expected to influence the patterns expressed in their\nphenotypic counterparts (P), because of limits imposed by multiple developmental and functional restrictions on the  genotype/phenotype map. We have investigated genetic covariances in the skull and mandible of the vesper mouse (Calomys expulsus) in order to estimate the degree of similarity between genetic and phenotypic covariances and its potential roots on developmental and functional factors shaping those integration patterns. We use a classic adhoc analysis of morphological integration based on current state of art of developmental/functional factors during mammalian ontogeny and also applied a novel methodology that makes use of simulated evolutionary responses. We have obtained P and G that are strongly similar, for both skull and mandible; their similarity is achieved through\nthe spatial and temporal organization of developmental and functional interactions, which are consistently recognized as\nhypothesis of trait associations in both matrices.', u'Motivation: A large choice of tools exists for many standard tasks in the analysis of high-throughput sequencing (HTS) data. However, once a project deviates from standard work flows, custom scripts are needed.\n\nResults: We present HTSeq, a Python library to facilitate the rapid development of such scripts. HTSeq offers parsers for many common data formats in HTS projects, as well as classes to represent data such as genomic coordinates, sequences, sequencing reads, alignments, gene model information, variant calls, and provides data structures that allow for querying via genomic coordinates. We also present htseq-count, a tool developed with HTSeq that preprocesses RNA-Seq data for differential expression analysis by counting the overlap of reads with genes.\n\nAvailability: HTSeq is released as open-source software under the GNU General Public Licence and available from http://www-huber.embl.de/HTSeq or from the Python Package Index, https://pypi.python.org/pypi/HTSeq', u'The transfer of mitochondrial genetic material into the nuclear genomes of eukaryotes is a well-established phenomenon. Many studies over the past decade have utilized reference genome sequences of numerous species to characterize the prevalence and contribution of nuclear mitochondrial insertions to human diseases. The recent advancement of high throughput sequencing technologies has enabled the interrogation of genomic variation at a much finer scale, and now allows for an exploration into the diversity of polymorphic nuclear mitochondrial insertions (NumtS) in human populations. We have developed an approach to discover and genotype previously undiscovered Numt insertions using whole genome, paired-end sequencing data. We have applied this method to almost a thousand individuals in twenty populations from the 1000 Genomes Project and other data sets and identified 138 novel sites of Numt insertions, extending our current knowledge of existing Numt locations in the human genome by almost 20%. Most of the newly identified NumtS were found in less than 1% of the samples we examined, suggesting that they occur infrequently in nature or have been rapidly removed by purifying selection. We find that recent Numt insertions are derived from throughout the mitochondrial genome, including the D-loop, and have integration biases consistent with previous studies on older, fixed NumtS in the reference genome. We have further determined the complete inserted sequence for a subset of these events to define their age and origin of insertion as well as their potential impact on studies of mitochondrial heteroplasmy.', u'Bacteria can defend against diverse antibiotics by mounting a multiple antibiotic resistance (mar) phenotype. The resistance is linked to a chromosomal locus that encodes an activator and a repressor regulating their own expression. Here, we investigated how this dual autogenous control determines the dynamics of the response. We found that the regulatory architecture provides a mechanism to enable rapid induction, generate pulses of activation, and increase the range of sensing. The response is also graded and homogeneous across the population. Moreover, the interaction of a third regulator with the core module fine tunes the previous features, while limiting the cross-talk with metabolic signals. A minimal model accurately anticipates these properties, and emphasizes how specific attributes of the circuit components constrain the appearance of other potential behaviors associated to the regulatory design. Our results integrate both molecular and circuit-level characteristics to fully elucidate the dynamic emergence of the mar phenotype.', u'The stochastic dynamics of multistable perception poses an enduring challenge to our understanding of neural signal processing in the brain. We show that the emergence of perception switching and stability can be understood using principles of probabilistic Bayesian inference where the prior temporal expectations are matched to a scale-free power spectrum, characteristic of fluctuations in the natural environment. The optimal percept dynamics are inferred by an exact mapping of the statistical estimation problem to the motion of a dissipative quantum particle in a multi-well potential. In the bistable case the problem is further mapped to a long-ranged Ising model. Optimal inference in the presence of a 1/f noise prior leads to critical dynamics, exhibiting a dynamical phase transition from unstable perception to stable perception, as demonstrated in recent experiments. The effect of stimulus fluctuations and perception bias is also discussed.', u'The directed evolution of biomolecules to improve or change their activity is central to many engineering and synthetic biology efforts. However, selecting improved variants from gene libraries in living cells requires plasmid expression systems that suffer from variable copy number effects, or the use of complex marker-dependent chromosomal integration strategies.  We developed quantitative gene assembly and DNA library insertion into the Saccharomyces cerevisiae genome by optimizing an efficient single-step and marker-free genome editing system using CRISPR-Cas9. With this Multiplex CRISPR (CRISPRm) system, we selected an improved cellobiose utilization pathway in diploid yeast in a single round of mutagenesis and selection, which increased cellobiose fermentation rates by over ten-fold.  Mutations recovered in the best cellodextrin transporters reveal synergy between substrate binding and transporter dynamics, and demonstrate the power of CRISPRm to accelerate selection experiments and discoveries of the molecular determinants that enhance biomolecule function.', u'The large yellow croaker Larimichthys crocea (L. crocea) is one of the most economically important marine fish in China and East Asian countries. It also exhibits peculiar behavioral and physiological characteristics, especially sensitive to various environmental stresses, such as hypoxia and air exposure. These traits may render L. crocea a good model for investigating the response mechanisms to environmental stress. To understand the molecular and genetic mechanisms underlying the adaptation and response of L. crocea to environmental stress, we sequenced and assembled the genome of L. crocea using a bacterial artificial chromosome and whole-genome shotgun hierarchical strategy. The final genome assembly was 679 Mb, with a contig N50 of 63.11 kb and a scaffold N50 of 1.03 Mb, containing 25,401 protein-coding genes. Gene families underlying adaptive behaviours, such as vision-related crystallins, olfactory receptors, and auditory sense-related genes, were significantly expanded in the genome of L. crocea relative to those of other vertebrates. Transcriptome analyses of the hypoxia-exposed L. crocea brain revealed new aspects of neuro-endocrine-immune/metabolism regulatory networks that may help the fish to avoid cerebral inflammatory injury and maintain energy balance under hypoxia. Proteomics data demonstrate that skin mucus of the air-exposed L. crocea had a complex composition, with an unexpectedly high number of proteins (3,209), suggesting its multiple protective mechanisms involved in antioxidant functions, oxygen transport, immune defence, and osmotic and ionic regulation. Our results provide novel insights into the mechanisms of fish adaptation and response to hypoxia and air exposure.', u'Actin filament dynamics govern many key physiological processes from cell motility to tissue morphogenesis. A central feature of actin dynamics is the capacity of the filament to polymerize and depolymerize at its ends in response to cellular conditions. It is currently thought that filament kinetics can be described by a single rate constant for each end. Here, using direct visualization of single actin filament elongation, we show that actin polymerization kinetics at both filament ends are strongly influenced by proteins that bind to the lateral filament surface. We also show that the less dynamic end, called the pointed-end, has a non-elongating state that dominates the observed filament kinetic asymmetry. Estimates of filament flexibility and Brownian dynamics simulations suggest that the observed kinetic diversity arises from structural alteration. Tuning filament kinetics by exploiting the natural malleability of the actin filament structure may be a ubiquitous mechanism to generate the rich variety of observed cellular actin dynamics.', u'Estimation of admixture fractions has become one of the most commonly used computational tools in population genomics.  However, there is remarkably little population genetic theory on their statistical properties.  We develop theoretical results that can accurately predict means and variances of admixture proportions within a population using models with recombination and genetic drift. Based on established theory on measures of multilocus disequilibrium, we show that there is a set of recurrence relations that can be used to derive expectations for higher moments of the admixture fraction distribution. We obtain closed form solutions for some special cases. Using these results, we develop a method for estimating admixture parameters from estimated admixture proportion obtained from programs such as Structure or Admixture. We apply this method to HapMap data and find that the population history of African Americans, as expected, is not best explained by a single admixture event between people of European and African ancestry. A model of constant gene flow for the past 11 generations until 2 generations ago gives a better fit.', u'Transposable elements (TEs) account for a large portion of the genome in many eukaryotic species. Despite their reputation as "junk" DNA or genomic parasites deleterious for the host, TEs have complex interactions with host genes and the potential to contribute to regulatory variation in gene expression. It has been hypothesized that TEs and genes they insert near may be transcriptionally activated in response to stress conditions. The maize genome, with many different types of TEs interspersed with genes, provides an ideal system to study the genome-wide influence of TEs on gene regulation. To analyze the magnitude of the TE effect on gene expression response to environmental changes, we profiled gene and TE transcript levels in maize seedlings exposed to a number of abiotic stresses. Many genes exhibit up- or down-regulation in response to these stress conditions. The analysis of TE families inserted within upstream regions of up-regulated genes revealed that between four and nine different TE families are associated with up-regulated gene expression in each of these stress conditions, affecting up to 20% of the genes up-regulated in response to abiotic stress and as many as 33% of genes that are only expressed in response to stress. Expression of many of these same TE families also responds to the same stress conditions. The analysis of the stress- induced transcripts and proximity of the transposon to the gene suggests that these TEs may provide local enhancer activities that stimulate stress-responsive gene expression. Our data on allelic variation for insertions of several of these TEs show strong correlation between the presence of TE insertions and stress-responsive up-regulation of gene expression. Our findings suggest that TEs provide an important source of allelic regulatory variation in gene response to abiotic stress in maize.', u'Drosophila Orb, the homologue of vertebrate CPEB is a key translational regulator involved in oocyte polarity and maturation through poly(A) tail elongation of specific mRNAs. orb has also an essential function during early oogenesis which has not been addressed at the molecular level. Here, we show that orb prevents cell death during early stages of oogenesis, thus allowing oogenesis to progress. It does so through the repression of autophagy, by directly repressing, together with the CCR4 deadenylase, the translation of Autophagy-specific gene 12 (Atg12) mRNA. The uncontrolled autophagy observed in orb mutant ovaries is reduced when Atg12 mRNA levels are decreased. These results reveal a role of Orb in translational repression and identify autophagy as an essential pathway regulated by Orb during early oogenesis. Importantly, they also establish translational regulation as a major mode of control of autophagy, a key process in cell homeostasis in response to environmental cues.', u'Motivation: RNA-Seq is a method for profiling transcription using high-throughput sequencing and is an important component of many research projects that wish to study transcript isoforms, condition specific expression, and transcriptional structure. The methods, tools, and technologies employed to perform RNA-Seq analysis continue to change, creating a bioinformatics challenge for researchers who wish to exploit these data. Resources that bring together genomic data, analysis tools, educational material, and computational infrastructure can minimize the overhead required of life science researchers.\nResults: RNA-Rocket is a free service that provides access to RNA-Seq and ChIP-Seq analysis tools for studying infectious diseases. The site makes available thousands of pre-indexed genomes, their annotations, and the ability to stream results to the bioinformatics resources VectorBase, EuPathDB, and PATRIC. The site also provides a combination of experimental data and metadata, examples of pre-computed analysis, step-by-step guides, and a user interface designed to enable both novice and experienced users of RNA-Seq data.\nAvailability: RNA-Rocket can be found at rnaseq.pathogenportal.org\nSource code for this project can be found at github.com/cidvbi/PathogenPortal', u'Principal components analysis on allele frequencies for 14 and 50 populations (from 1K Genomes and ALFRED databases) produced a factor accounting for over half of the variance, which indicates selection pressure on intelligence or genotypic IQ. Very high correlations between this factor and phenotypic IQ, educational achievement were observed (r>0.9 and 0.8), also after partialling out GDP and the Human Development Index. Regression analysis was used to estimate a genotypic (predicted) IQ also for populations with missing data for phenotypic IQ. Socio-economic indicators (GDP and Human Development Index) failed to predict residuals, not providing evidence for the effects of environmental factors on intelligence.\nAnother analysis revealed that the relationship between IQ and the genotypic factor was not mediated by race, implying that it exists at a finer resolution, a finding which in turn suggests selective pressures postdating sub-continental population splits.\nGenotypic height and IQ were inversely correlated but this correlation was mostly mediated by race. In at least two cases (Native Americans vs East Asians and Africans vs Papuans) genetic distance inferred from evolutionarily neutral genetic markers contrasts markedly with the resemblance observed for IQ and height increasing alleles. \nA principal component analysis on a random sample of 20 SNPs revealed two factors representing genetic relatedness due to migrations. However, the correlation between IQ and the intelligence PC was not mediated by them. In fact, the intelligence PC emerged as an even stronger predictor of IQ after entering the "migratory" PCs in a regression, indicating that it represents selection pressure instead of migrational effects.\nFinally, some observations on the high IQ of Mongoloid people are made which lend support to the "cold winters theory" on the evolution of intelligence.', u'The evolution of the long, slow human life history is a major challenge to evolutionary biologists. A compelling theory states that our late age at maturity allows us to acquire the many skills needed to survive in the economically intensive human foraging niche. Cultural transmission may be a crucial part of this process, by exposing learners to a wealth of information and skills that they would otherwise not likely discover. I use mathematical models to show that whether cultural transmission allows a later age at maturity depends on the details of selection and population regulation. In particular, cultural transmission appears to readily allow a later age at maturity under density-dependent fertility, but may not under density-dependent mortality or density-independent population growth. I close with a discussion of possibilities for future theoretical and empirical research.', u'The use of high-throughput experiments, such as RNA-seq, to simultaneously identify differentially abundant entities across conditions has become widespread, but the systematic planning of such studies is currently hampered by the lack of general-purpose tools to do so. Here we demonstrate that there is substantial variability in performance across statistical tests, normalization techniques and study conditions, potentially leading to significant wastage of resources and/or missing information in the absence of careful study design. We present a broadly applicable experimental design tool called EDDA, and the first for single-cell RNA-seq, Nanostring and Metagenomic studies, that can be used to i) rationally choose from a panel of statistical tests, ii) measure expected performance for a study and iii) plan experiments to minimize mis-utilization of valuable resources. Using case studies from recent single-cell RNA-seq, Nanostring and Metagenomics studies, we highlight its general utility and, in particular, show a) the ability to correctly model single-cell RNA-seq data and do comparisons with 1/5th the amount of sequencing currently used and b) that the selection of suitable statistical tests strongly impacts the ability to detect biomarkers in Metagenomic studies. Furthermore, we demonstrate that a novel mode-based normalization employed in EDDA uniformly improves in robustness over existing approaches (10-20%) and increases precision to detect differential abundance by up to 140%.', u'We report reference-grade de novo assemblies of four model organisms and the human genome from single-molecule, real-time (SMRT) sequencing. Long-read SMRT sequencing is routinely used to finish microbial genomes, but the available assembly methods have not scaled well to larger genomes. Here we introduce the MinHash Alignment Process (MHAP) for efficient overlapping of noisy, long reads using probabilistic, locality-sensitive hashing. Together with Celera Assembler, MHAP was used to reconstruct the genomes of Escherichia coli, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Arabidopsis thaliana, Drosophila melanogaster, and human from high-coverage SMRT sequencing. The resulting assemblies include fully resolved chromosome arms and close persistent gaps in these important reference genomes, including heterochromatic and telomeric transition sequences. For D. melanogaster, MHAP achieved a 600-fold speedup relative to prior methods and a cloud computing cost of a few hundred dollars. These results demonstrate that single-molecule sequencing alone can produce near-complete eukaryotic genomes at modest cost.', u'Radio telemetry has advanced the field of wildlife biology, especially with the miniaturization of radio-tags. However, the major limitation faced with radio-tagging birds is the size of the animal to which a radio-tag can be attached. We tested how miniature radio-tags affected flight performance and behavior of Ruby-throated Hummingbirds (Archilochus colubris), possibly the smallest bird species to be fitted with radio-tags. Using eyelash adhesive, we fitted hatch year individuals (n=20 males and 15 females) with faux radio-tags of three sizes varying in mass and antenna length (220mg-12.7cm, 240mg-12.7cm, and 220mg-6.35cm), then filmed the birds in a field aviary to quantify activity budgets. We also estimated flight range using flight simulation models. When the three radio-tag packages were pooled for analysis, the presence of a radio-tag significantly decreased both flight time (-8%) and modeled flight range (-23%) when compared to control birds. However, a multiple comparison analysis between the different packages revealed that there was a significant difference in flight time when the larger radio-tag package (240mg) was attached and no significant difference in flight time when the lighter radio-tag packages (220mg) were attached. Our results are similar to other studies which analyzed the flight time or flight range of birds wearing radio-tags. Therefore, currently available light weight radio-tags (\u2264220mg) may be a new option to aid in the study of hummingbird biology. Future study should focus upon the additional drag created by the radio-tag and the effects of the lightest radio-tag packages on free ranging birds. These studies would provide additional information to determine the feasibility on the use of radio-tags to study hummingbird biology. \nKeywords: radio transmitters, radio telemetry, Ruby-throated Hummingbirds, Archilochus colubris, radio-tagging, behavior, flight simulations, migration', u'One of the central tasks in evolutionary biology is to reconstruct the evolutionary relationships among species from sequence data, particularly from multilocus data. In the last ten years, many methods have been proposed to use the variance in the gene histories to estimate species trees by explicitly modeling deep coalescence. However, gene flow, another process that may produce gene history variance, has been less studied. In this paper, we propose a simple yet innovative method for species trees estimation in the presence of gene flow. Our method, called STEST (Species Tree Estimation from Speciation Times), constructs species tree estimates from pairwise speciation time or species divergence time estimates. By using methods that estimate speciation times in the presence of gene flow, (for example, M1 (Yang 2010) or SIM3s (Zhu and Yang 2012)), STEST is able to estimate species trees from data subject to gene flow. We develop two methods, called STEST (M1) and STEST (SIM3s), for this purpose. Additionally, we consider the method STEST (M0), which instead uses the M0 method (Yang 2002), a coalescent-based method that does not assume gene flow, to estimate speciation times. It is therefore devised to estimate species trees in the absence of gene flow. Our simulation studies show that STEST (M0) outperforms STEST(M1), STEST (SIM3s) and STEM in terms of estimation accuracy and outperfroms *BEAST in terms of running time when the degree of gene flow is small. STEST (M1) outperforms STEST (M0), STEST (SIM3s), STEM and *BEAST in term of estimation accuracy when the degree of gene flow is large. An empirical data set analyzed by these methods gives species tree estimates that are consistent with the previous results.', u'The evolution of animal colouration is importantly driven by sexual selection operating on traits used to transmit information to rivals and potential mates, which therefore, have major impacts on fitness. Reflectance spectrometry has become a standard colour-measuring tool, especially after the discovery of tetrachromacy in birds and their ability to detect UV. Birds? plumage patterns may be invisible to humans, necessitating a reliable and objective way of assessing colouration not dependent on human vision. Plumage colouration measurements can be taken directly on live birds in the field or in the lab (e.g. on collected feathers). Therefore, it is essential to determine which sampling method yields more repeatable and reliable measures, and which of the available quantitative approaches best assess the repeatability of these measures. Using a spectrophotometer, we measured melanin-based colouration in barn swallows? (Hirundo rustica) plumage. We assessed the repeatability of measures obtained with both traditional sampling methods separately to quantitatively determine their reliability. We used the ANOVA-based method for calculating the repeatability of measurements from two years separately, and the GLMM-based method to calculate overall adjusted repeatabilities for both years. We repeated the assessment for the whole reflectance spectrum range and only the human-visible part, to assess the influence of the UV component on the reliabilities of sampling methodologies. Our results reveal very high repeatability for lab measurements and a lower, still moderate to high repeatability, for field measurements. Both increased when limited to only the human-visible part, for all plumage patches except the throat, where we observed the opposite trend. Repeatability between sampling methods was quite low including the whole spectrum, but moderate including only the human-visible part. Our results suggest higher reliability for measurements in the lab and higher power and accuracy of the GLMM-based method. They also suggest UV reflectance differences amongst different plumage patches.', u"The Turkic peoples represent a diverse collection of ethnic groups defined by the Turkic languages. These groups have dispersed across a vast area, including Siberia, Northwest China, Central Asia, East Europe, the Caucasus, Anatolia, the Middle East, and Afghanistan. The origin and early dispersal history of the Turkic peoples is disputed, with candidates for their ancient homeland ranging from the Transcaspian steppe to Manchuria in Northeast Asia. Previous genetic studies have not identified a clear-cut unifying genetic signal for the Turkic peoples, which lends support for language replacement rather than demic diffusion as the model for the Turkic language's expansion. We addressed the genetic origin of 373 individuals from 22 Turkic-speaking populations, representing their current geographic range, by analyzing genome-wide high-density genotype data. Most of the Turkic peoples studied, except those in Central Asia, genetically resembled their geographic neighbors, in agreement with the elite dominance model of language expansion. However, western Turkic peoples sampled across West Eurasia shared an excess of long chromosomal tracts that are identical by descent (IBD) with populations from present-day South Siberia and Mongolia (SSM), an area where historians center a series of early Turkic and non-Turkic steppe polities. The observed excess of long chromosomal tracts IBD (>1cM) between populations from SSM and Turkic peoples across West Eurasia was statistically significant. Finally, we used the ALDER method and inferred admixture dates (~9th-17th centuries) that overlap with the Turkic migrations of the 5th-16th centuries. Thus, our results indicate historical admixture among Turkic peoples, and the recent shared ancestry with modern populations in SSM supports one of the hypothesized homelands for their nomadic Turkic and related Mongolic ancestors.", u"A DNA profile from the perpetrator does not reveal, per se, the circumstances by which it was transferred. Body fluid identification by mRNA profiling may allow extraction of contextual 'activity level' information from forensic samples. Here we describe the development of a prototype multiplex digital gene expression (DGE) method for forensic body fluid/tissue identification based upon solution hybridization of color-coded NanoString\xae probes to 23 tissue/body fluid specific mRNA targets. The body fluids/tissues targeted were peripheral blood, semen, saliva, vaginal secretions, menstrual blood and skin. We tested and compared a simple 5 minute room temperature cellular lysis protocol against standard RNA isolation from same source material as a means to facilitate ease-of-use in forensic sample processing.\nWe first describe a model for gene expression in a sample from a single body fluid and then extend that model to mixtures of body fluids.  We then describe calculation of maximum likelihood estimates (MLEs) of body fluid quantities in a sample, and we describe the use of likelihood ratios to test for the presence of each body fluid in a sample.  Known single source blood, semen, vaginal secretions, menstrual blood and skin samples all demonstrated the expected tissue specific gene expression for at least two of the chosen biomarkers. Saliva samples were more problematic, with their previously identified characteristic genes exhibiting poor specificity. Nonetheless the most specific saliva biomarker, HTN3, was expressed at a higher level in saliva than in any of the other tissues. As a preliminary indication of the ability of the method to discern admixtures of body fluids, five mixtures were prepared. Two of the five mixtures were called perfectly using the assay algorithm, and one of the component fluids was identified in the each of the 'false negative' mixtures.  Crucially, our algorithm produced zero false positive fluid identifications across this study's 98 samples. Further optimization of the biomarker 'Codeset' will be required before it can be used in casework, particularly with respect to increasing the signal to noise ratio of the saliva biomarkers.  With suitable modifications, this simplified protocol with minimal hands on requirement should facilitate routine use of mRNA profiling in casework laboratories.", u'Sensory responses are modulated throughout the nervous system by internal factors including attention, experience, and brain state. This is partly due to fluctuations in neuromodulatory input from regions such as the noradrenergic locus coeruleus (LC) in the brainstem. LC activity changes with arousal and modulates sensory processing, cognition and memory. The main olfactory bulb (MOB) is richly targeted by LC fibers and noradrenaline profoundly influences MOB circuitry and odor-guided behavior. Noradrenaline-dependent plasticity affects the output of the MOB. However, it is unclear whether noradrenergic plasticity includes modulation in the glomerular layer, the site of input to the MOB. Noradrenergic terminals are found in the glomerular layer, but noradrenaline receptor activation does not seem to acutely modulate olfactory sensory neuron terminals in vitro. We investigated whether noradrenaline induces plasticity at the glomerulus. We used wide-field optical imaging to measure changes in odor responses following electrical stimulation of locus coeruleus in anesthetized mice. Surprisingly, the odor-evoked intrinsic optical signals at the glomerulus were persistently weakened after LC activation. Calcium imaging selectively from olfactory sensory neurons confirmed that this effect was due to a uniform gain suppression of presynaptic input, and did not require exposure to a stimulus during the LC activation. Finally, noradrenaline antagonists prevented glomerular suppression. We conclude that noradrenaline release from LC has persistent effects on odor processing already at the first synapse of the main olfactory system. This mechanism could contribute to arousal-dependent memories.', u'DNA methylation is an important epigenetic regulator of gene expression. Recent studies have revealed widespread associations between genetic variation and methylation levels. However, the mechanistic links between genetic variation and methylation remain unclear. To begin addressing this gap, we collected methylation data at ~300,000 loci in lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs) from 64 HapMap Yoruba individuals, and genome-wide bisulfite sequence data in ten of these individuals. We identified (at an FDR of 10%) 11,752 methylation QTLs (meQTLs)--i.e., loci in which genetic variation is associated with changes in DNA methylation. We found that meQTLs are frequently associated with changes in methylation at multiple CpGs across regions of up to 3 kb. Interestingly, meQTLs are also frequently associated with variation in other properties of gene regulation, including histone modifications, DNase I accessibility, chromatin accessibility, and expression levels of nearby genes. These observations suggest that genetic variants may lead to coordinated molecular changes in all of these regulatory phenotypes. One plausible driver of coordinated changes in different regulatory mechanisms is variation in transcription factor (TF) binding. Indeed, we found that SNPs that change predicted TF binding affinities are significantly enriched for associations with DNA methylation at nearby CpGs. Taken together, our observations are consistent with a model whereby changes in TF binding may frequently drive coordinated changes in DNA methylation, histone modification, and gene expression levels.', u"The quality of phylogenetic inference made from protein-coding genes depends, in part, on the realism with which the codon substitution process is modeled. Here we propose a new mechanistic model that combines the standard M0 substitution model of Yang (1997) with a simplified model from Gilchrist (2007) that includes selection on synonymous substitutions as a function of codon-specific nonsense error rates. We tested the newly proposed model by applying it to 104 protein-coding genes in brewer's yeast, and compared the fit of the new model to the standard M0 model and to the mutation-selection model of Yang and Nielsen (2008) using the AIC. Our new model provided significantly better fit in approximately 85% of the cases considered for the basic M0 model and in approximately 25% of the cases for the M0 model with estimated codon frequencies, but only in a few cases when the mutation-selection model was considered. However, our model includes a parameter that can be interpreted as a measure of the rate of protein production, and the estimates of this parameter were highly correlated with an independent measure of protein production for the yeast genes considered here. Finally, we found that in some cases the new model led to the preference of a different phylogeny for a subset of the genes considered, indicating that substitution model choice may have an impact on the estimated phylogeny.", u'The development of CRISPR/Cas9 technologies promises a quantum leap in genome-engineering of model organisms. However, CRISPR-mediated gene targeting reports in Drosophila are still restricted to a few genes, use variable experimental conditions and vary in efficiency, questioning the universal applicability of the method. Here, we developed an efficient, two-step strategy to flexibly engineer the fly genome by combining CRISPR with recombinase-mediated cassette exchange (RMCE). In the first step, two sgRNAs, whose activity had been tested in cell culture, were co-injected together with a donor plasmid into transgenic Act5C-Cas9, Ligase4 mutant embryos and the homologous integration events were identified by eye fluorescence. In the second step, the eye marker was replaced with DNA sequences of choice using RMCE enabling flexible gene modification. We applied this strategy to engineer four different loci, including a gene on the fourth chromosome, at comparably high efficiencies, suggesting that any fly lab can engineer their favourite gene for a broad range of applications within about three months.', u'Sustainable biofuel production from renewable biomass will require the efficient and complete use of all abundant sugars in the plant cell wall. Using the cellulolytic fungus Neurospora crassa as a model, we identified a xylodextrin transport and consumption pathway required for its growth on hemicellulose. Successful reconstitution of this xylodextrin utilization pathway in Saccharomyces cerevisiae revealed that fungal xylose reductases act as xylodextrin reductases, and together with two hydrolases, generate intracellular xylose and xylitol. Xylodextrin consumption using xylodextrin reductases and tandem intracellular hydrolases greatly expands the capacity of yeasts to use plant cell wall-derived sugars, and should be adaptable to increase the efficiency of both first-generation and next-generation biofuel production.', u'Bacteria from several taxa, including Kurthia zopfii, Myxococcus xanthus, and Bacillus mycoides, have been reported to align growth of their colonies to small features on the surface of solid media, including anisotropies created by compression. While the function of this phenomenon is unclear, it may help organisms navigate on solid phases, such as soil. The origin of this behavior is also unknown: it may be biological (that is, dependent on components that sense the environment and regulate growth accordingly) or merely physical.\n\nHere we show that B. subtilis, an organism that typically does not respond to media compression, can be induced to do so with two simple and synergistic perturbations: a mutation that maintains cells in the swarming (chained) state, and the addition of EDTA to the growth media, which further increases chain length. EDTA apparently increases cell length by inducing defects in cell separation, as the treatment has only marginal effects on the length of individual cells. \n\nThese results lead us to three conclusions. First, the wealth of genetic tools available to B. subtilis will provide a new, tractable chassis for engineering compression sensitive organisms. Second, the sensitivity of colony morphology to media compression in Bacillus is a physical rather than biological phenomenon dependent on a simple physical property of rod-shaped cells. And third, colony morphology under compression holds promise as a rapid, simple, and low-cost way to screen for changes in the length of rod-shaped cells or chains thereof.', u"Linear mixed models are a powerful statistical tool for identifying genetic associations and avoiding confounding.  However, existing methods are computationally intractable in large cohorts, and may not optimize power.  All existing methods require time cost O(MN^2) (where N = #samples and M = #SNPs) and implicitly assume an infinitesimal genetic architecture in which effect sizes are normally distributed, which can limit power.  Here, we present a far more efficient mixed model association method, BOLT-LMM, which requires only a small number of O(MN) iterations and increases power by modeling more realistic, non-infinitesimal genetic architectures via a Bayesian mixture prior on marker effect sizes.  We applied BOLT-LMM to nine quantitative traits in 23,294 samples from the Women's Genome Health Study (WGHS) and observed significant increases in power, consistent with simulations.  Theory and simulations show that the boost in power increases with cohort size, making BOLT-LMM appealing for GWAS in large cohorts.", u'The presence of calcium sulfate in cultivating solution prevents bacterial contamination, browning/lignification and the death of the roots. There is no need for surface sterilization of seeds. No other ingredients, beside calcium sulfate, are needed for the healthy growth of the primary and lateral roots. There is no need to change the solution for several weeks when up to 60 lateral roots per seed can appear. \n          \nA modification of the two-stage growing technique where the seeds are first suspended in moist air over the cultivating solution to grow primary roots, and then, the primary roots are covered with the cultivating solution to grow lateral roots, was used.\n\nThe hypothesis is put forward that primary roots actually need water as a liquid to expel air, as the air is probably preventing the appearance of lateral roots.', u"Neotropical migratory birds are declining across the Western Hemisphere, but conservation efforts have been hampered by the inability to assess where migrants are most limited\u2013the breeding grounds, migratory stopover sites, or wintering areas.  A major challenge has been the lack of an efficient, reliable, and broadly applicable method for connecting populations across the annual cycle.  Here we show how high-resolution genetic markers can be used to identify populations of a migratory bird, the Wilson's warbler (Cardellina pusilla), at fine enough spatial scales to facilitate assessing regional drivers of demographic trends.  By screening 1626 samples using 96 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) selected from a large pool of candidates (~450,000), we identify novel region-specific migratory routes and timetables of migration along the Pacific Flyway.  Our results illustrate that high-resolution genetic markers are more reliable, accurate, and amenable to high throughput screening than previously described tracking techniques, making them broadly applicable to large-scale monitoring and conservation of migratory organisms.", u"Understanding seasonal cycles of viruses originating in wildlife can provide insight into their likelihood of persistence in animal populations and inform policies to limit spillover to human populations. Avian influenza virus (AIV) is an important zoonotic agent causing seasonal occurrence of avian influenza (AI) in wild birds in temperate areas. Although the seasonality of AIV transmission in tropical birds is largely unknown, peaks of influenza activity in human populations in the tropics coincide with the rainy season. To assess the seasonality of AI in tropical birds, from 2010-14, we sampled 40,099 birds at 32 sites in Central Africa (Cameroon, Central African Republic, Congo-Brazzaville, and Gabon) and West Africa (Benin, C\xf4te d'Ivoire, and Togo). Although AIV was not isolated by egg culture, in Central Africa, detection rates by real-time RT-PCR were 3.57% for passerine songbirds and 8.74% for Anatid ducks. RT-PCR positivity in resident birds increased when Palearctic migrants arrived in Central Africa. At sampling sites with two annual wet seasons, the positive rate in wild birds was greatest during the big rainy season in September\u2013October. This study provides the first evidence that AI is present in Central African birds and identifies environmental factors associated with cases.", u'A tandem cell is proposed for DNA sequencing in which an exonuclease enzyme cleaves bases (mononucleotides) from a strand of DNA for identification inside a nanopore. It has two nanopores and three compartments with the structure [cis1, upstream nanopore (UNP), trans1=cis2, downstream nanopore (DNP), trans2]. The exonuclease is attached to the exit side of UNP in trans1/cis2. A cleaved base cannot regress into cis1 because of the remaining DNA strand in UNP. A profiled electric field over DNP with positive and negative components slows down base translocation through DNP. The proposed structure is modeled with a Fokker-Planck equation and a piecewise solution presented. Results from the model indicate that with probability approaching 1 bases enter DNP in their natural order, are detected without any loss, and do not regress into DNP after progressing into trans2. Sequencing efficiency with a tandem cell would then be determined solely by the level of discrimination among the base types inside DNP.', u'Santa Catalina Island is a small island off the coast of southern California and for its modest size harbors several species of flies from the Drosophila genus. We performed an island-wide survey of Drosophila species to ascertain which species were endemic to the island and where they were most abundant. In doing so, we have assembled useful sampling information for researchers who wish to conduct field studies on Santa Catalina Island. From this survey, we determined that Drosophila hamatofila, Drosophila mainlandi, and Drosophila mettleri were the prominent repleta species on the island. Other repleta species encountered included Drosophila mojavensis and Drosophila wheeleri. Non-repleta species sighted on the island include Drosophila melanogaster, Drosophila pseudoobscura, Drosophila simulans, and an unknown species not seen before on the island. Additionally, we performed seasonal collections at two locations on the island and observed that species abundance and composition at these two sites vary between seasons. One of the seasonal sites was sampled in two consecutive summer seasons, which revealed that species composition had shifted between years, but relative abundances were approximately the same.', u"The effects of historical barriers in biogeographical patterns are expected to persist differently depending on dispersal abilities of organisms. We tested two hypotheses that plant groups with different dispersal abilities display different floristic patterns, and that historical barriers can explain floristic differentiation patterns in plants with low dispersal ability but not in plants with higher dispersal ability, in the seed plant flora of the Ryukyu Archipelago. This area is biogeographically interesting because several similar floristic differentiation patterns have been proposed, all of which are primarily explained by two historical barriers, the Tokara Tectonic Strait (Tokara Gap) and the Kerama Gap, which arose during the formation of the islands. We calculated floristic dissimilarity distance among 26 islands based on data sets for three dispersal-ability classes. Clustering analyses based on the floristic dissimilarity distance generated similar floristic patterns regardless of dispersal-ability class. We propose that because the landscape resistance is so strong that migration of plants is severely restricted regardless of their dispersal abilities, the similar floristic differentiation patterns are generated. Multivariate regression analyses using Mantel's randomization test indicated that floristic differentiations among islands were explained by the both effects of the historical barriers and geographic distance in all dispersal-ability classes. Significance of the historical barriers is not determined by the plant dispersal abilities but presumably by the spatial distribution of the islands, stochastic dispersals, and time since the formation of the barriers.", u"In order to compare stand structure and woody species diversity of subtropical evergreen broadleaf forests along a latitudinal thermal gradient of the Ryukyu Archipelago, tree censuses in a 750 m2 plot in Okinawa Island and a 400 m2 plot in Ishigaki Island were performed. The number of layers increased along a latitudinal thermal gradient from four in the forest of Okinawa Island to five in the forest of Ishigaki Island. The values of Shannon's index   and Pielou's index   tended to increase from the top layer downward in the forest of Okinawa Island, whereas in the forest of Ishigaki Island, these values tended to increase from the bottom layer upward. High woody species diversity depended on small-sized trees in the Okinawa forest, whereas it depended on large-sized trees in the Ishigaki forest. The woody species diversity is higher in the Okinawa forest ( = 4.83 bit) than in the Ishigaki forest ( = 4.36 bit). According to successively decreasing height of layers from the top downward, the value of  increased continuously from the top layer downward in the Okinawa forest. This increasing trend was different from the Ishigaki forest, where the value of   increased up to the second layer and then decreased downward. In the Okinawa forest, the expected number of species increased continuously from the top toward the bottom layer, i.e. the bottom layer contained the highest potential number of species (65). However, in the Ishigaki forest, it increased from the top to the fourth layer and then decreased to the bottom layer, i.e. the fourth layer contained the highest potential number of species (90). The floristic composition in the Okinawa forest was different from that in the Ishigaki forest in terms of similarity index, though approximately half of the species were common between them. The highest degree of similarity in floristic composition was between the second and third layers in the Okinawa forest, whereas it was between the third and bottom layers in the Ishigaki forest. The degree of similarity in floristic composition among layers was higher in the Okinawa forest than in the Ishigaki forest. Except the top and the bottom layer respectively in the forests of Okinawa Island and Ishigaki Island, the spatial distribution of trees was random in each layer. The degree of overlapping in the spatial distribution of trees among layers in these two forests suggested that trees in the upper two layers in the Ishigaki forest can catch sufficient light, while light can not penetrate easily to the lower three layers in both of the forests. As a result, almost species in the lower layers might be shade-tolerant in both of the forests. For both of the forests, mean tree weight of each layer decreased from the top downward, whereas the corresponding tree density increased from the top downward. This trend resembled the mean weight-density trajectory of self-thinning plant populations.", u'A major bottleneck in biological discovery is now emerging at the computational level. Cloud computing offers a dynamic means whereby small and medium-sized laboratories can rapidly adjust their computational capacity. We benchmarked two established cloud computing services, Amazon Web Services Elastic MapReduce (EMR) on Amazon EC2 instances and Google Compute Engine (GCE), using publicly available genomic datasets (E.coli CC102 strain and a Han Chinese male genome) and a standard bioinformatic pipeline on a Hadoop-based platform. Wall-clock time for complete assembly differed by 52.9% (95%CI: 27.5-78.2) for E.coli and 53.5% (95%CI: 34.4-72.6) for human genome, with GCE being more efficient than EMR. The cost of running this experiment on EMR and GCE differed significantly, with the costs on EMR being 257.3%  (95%CI: 211.5-303.1) and 173.9% (95%CI: 134.6-213.1) more expensive for E.coli and human assemblies respectively. Thus, GCE was found to outperform EMR both in terms of cost and wall-clock time. Our findings confirm that cloud computing is an efficient and potentially cost-effective alternative for analysis of large genomic datasets. In addition to releasing our cost-effectiveness comparison, we present available ready-to-use scripts for establishing Hadoop instances with Ganglia monitoring on EC2 or GCE.', u'Lighter is a fast, memory-efficient tool for correcting sequencing errors. Lighter avoids counting k-mers. Instead, it uses a pair of Bloom filters, one holding a sample of the input k-mers and the other holding k-mers likely to be correct. As long as the sampling fraction is adjusted in inverse proportion to the depth of sequencing, Bloom filter size can be held constant while maintaining near-constant accuracy. Lighter is parallelized, uses no secondary storage, and is both faster and more memory-efficient than competing approaches while achieving comparable accuracy.', u'Motivation:\nMate pair protocols add to the utility of paired-end sequencing by boosting the genomic distance spanned by each pair of reads, potentially allowing larger repeats to be bridged and resolved. The Illumina Nextera Mate Pair (NMP) protocol employs a circularisation-based strategy that leaves behind 38bp adapter sequences which must be computationally removed from the data. While "adapter trimming" is a well-studied area of bioinformatics, existing tools do not fully exploit the particular properties of NMP data and discard more data than is necessary.\n\nResults: \nWe present NxTrim, a tool that strives to discard as little sequence as possible from NMP reads. The sequence either side of the adapter site is triaged into "virtual libraries" of mate pairs, paired-end reads and single-ended reads. When combined, these data boost coverage and can substantially improve the de novo assembly of bacterial genomes.', u'Mechanisms of aerial righting in juvenile Chukar Partridge (Alectoris chukar) were studied from hatching through 14 days-post-hatching (dph). Asymmetric movements of the wings were used from 1?8 dph to effect progressively more successful righting behaviour via body roll. Following 8 dph, wing motions transitioned to bilaterally symmetric flapping that yielded aerial righting via nose-down pitch, along with substantial increases in vertical force production during descent. Ontogenetically, the use of such wing motions to effect aerial righting precedes both symmetric flapping and a previously documented behaviour in chukar (i.e., wing-assisted incline running) hypothesized to be relevant to incipient flight evolution in birds. These findings highlight the importance of asymmetric wing activation and controlled aerial manoeuvres during bird development, and are potentially relevant to understanding the origins of avian flight.', u"We observe that the Taylor-Frank method for making kin selection models when fitness $w$ is a nonlinear function of a continuous actor's phenotype $y$ and the average phenotype $z$ in its social environment requires $w(y,z)$ to be differentiable  (as a function of two variables, i.e., jointly in $y$ and $z$). This means that even if $w(y,z)$ is non-linear globally, locally it must be close to linear, meaning that its\ngraph must be well approximated by a plane. When more than two individuals interact, this assumption is only satisfied when the marginal fitness of the actor is a linear function of the fraction of individuals in its social environment that share its phenotype. This assumption sometimes fails for biologically important fitness functions, for instance in microbial data and the theory of repeated n-person games. In these cases, the Taylor-Frank methodology cannot be used, and a more general form of direct fitness must replace it, to decide when a social mutant allele can invade a monomorphic population.", u"We study evolution of cooperation in a population structured in a large number of groups of variable size, connected by random migration at rate $m$. Social interactions, including cooperation and competition occur only inside the groups. Assuming that groups are large, we define a parameter $\\lambda$ that measures the strength of the local regulation, i.e., the rigidity of group sizes. Individuals are of two possible genotypes, one typically assumed to produce a non-cooperative phenotype and the other a phenotype that is cooperative with all members of its own group. Gene action may be additive, producing fitness functions that are linear in the number of cooperators in a group, or not. Assuming weak selection, we obtain the following two contrasting conclusions. (1) ``Hamilton regime'': If $\\lambda << m$, then cooperative behavior\ncan spread under a certain condition, which in the additive, i.e., linear, case is precisely Hamilton's rule. The general version of this condition is also relatively easy to apply and is based on Wright's classical beta distribution for the frequency of alleles in infinite island models. We call it the ``beta version of Hamilton's rule''. (2) ``Taylor regime'': If $m << \\lambda$, then cooperation that is costly to the actor is eliminated by selection.", u"Developing predictive models of multi-protein genetic systems to understand and optimize their behavior remains a combinatorial challenge, particularly when measurement throughput is limited. We developed a computational approach to build predictive models and identify optimal sequences and expression levels, while circumventing combinatorial explosion. Maximally informative genetic system variants were first designed by the RBS Library Calculator, an algorithm to design sequences for efficiently searching a multi-protein expression space across a >10,000-fold range with tailored search parameters and well-predicted translation rates. We validated the algorithm's predictions by characterizing 646 genetic system variants, encoded in plasmids and genomes, expressed in six gram-positive and gram-negative bacterial hosts. We then combined the search algorithm with system-level kinetic modeling, requiring the construction and characterization of 73 variants to build a sequence-expression-activity map (SEAMAP) for a biosynthesis pathway. Using model predictions, we designed and characterized 47 additional pathway variants to navigate its activity space, find optimal expression regions with desired activity response curves, and relieve rate-limiting steps in metabolism. Creating sequence-expression-activity maps accelerates the optimization of many protein systems and allows previous measurements to quantitatively inform future designs.", u'Biological organisms acclimatize to varying environmental conditions via active self-regulation of internal gene regulatory networks, metabolic networks, and protein signaling networks. While much work has been done to elucidate the topologies of individual networks in isolation, understanding of inter-network regulatory mechanisms remains limited. This shortcoming is of particular relevance to synthetic biology. Synthetic biological circuits tend to lose their engineered functionality over generational time, primarily due to the deleterious stress that they exert on their host organisms. To reduce this stress (and thus minimize loss of functionality) synthetic circuits must be sensitive to the health of the host organism. Development of integrated regulatory systems is therefore essential to robust synthetic biological systems. The aim of this study was to develop integrated gene-regulatory and metabolic networks which self-optimize in response to varying environmental conditions. We performed \\emph{in silico} evolution to develop such networks using a two-step approach: (1) We optimized metabolic networks given a constrained amount of available enzyme. Here, we found that a proportional relationship between flux control coefficients and enzyme mass holds in all linear sub-networks of branched networks, except those sub-networks which contain allosteric regulators. Network optimization was performed by iteratively redistributing enzyme until flux through the network was maximized. Optimization was performed for a range of boundary metabolite conditions to develop a profile of optimal enzyme distributions as a function of environmental conditions. (2) We generated and evolved randomized gene regulatory networks to modulate the enzymes of a target metabolic pathway. The objective of the gene regulatory networks was to produce the optimal distribution of metabolic network enzymes given specific boundary metabolite conditions of the target network. Competitive evolutionary algorithms were applied to optimize the specific structures and kinetic parameters of the gene regulatory networks. With this method, we demonstrate the possibility of algorithmic development of integrated adaptive gene and metabolic regulatory networks which dynamically self-optimize in response to changing environmental conditions.', u'It is widely appreciated that short tandem repeat (STR) variation underlies substantial phenotypic variation in organisms. Some propose that the high mutation rates of STRs in functional genomic regions facilitate evolutionary adaptation. Despite their high mutation rate, some STRs show little to no variation in populations. One such STR occurs in the Arabidopsis thaliana gene PFT1 (MED25), where it encodes an interrupted polyglutamine tract. Though the PFT1 STR is large (~270 bp), and thus expected to be extremely variable, it shows only minuscule variation across A. thaliana strains. We hypothesized that the PFT1 STR is under selective constraint, due to previously undescribed roles in PFT1 function. We investigated this hypothesis using plants expressing transgenic PFT1 constructs with either an endogenous STR or with synthetic STRs of varying length. Transgenic plants carrying the endogenous PFT1 STR generally performed best across adult PFT1-dependent traits. In stark contrast, transgenic plants carrying a PFT1 transgene lacking the STR entirely phenocopied a pft1 loss-of-function mutant for flowering time phenotypes, and were generally hypomorphic for other traits, establishing the functional importance of this domain. Transgenic plants carrying various synthetic constructs occupied the phenotypic space between wild-type and pft1-loss-of-function mutants. By varying PFT1 STR length, we discovered that PFT1 can act as either an activator or repressor of flowering in a photoperiod-dependent manner. We conclude that the PFT1 STR is constrained to its approximate wild-type length by its various functional requirements. Our study implies that there is strong selection on STRs not only to generate allelic diversity, but also to maintain certain lengths pursuant to optimal molecular function.', u"Heat-shock protein 90 (Hsp90) promotes the maturation and stability of its client proteins, including many kinases. In doing so, Hsp90 may allow its clients to accumulate mutations as previously proposed by the capacitor hypothesis. If true, Hsp90 clients should show increased evolutionary rate compared to non-clients; however, other factors, such as gene expression and protein connectivity, may confound or obscure the chaperone's putative contribution. Here, we compared the evolutionary rates of many Hsp90 clients and non-clients in the human protein kinase superfamily. We show that Hsp90 client status promotes evolutionary rate independently of, but in a similar magnitude to, gene expression and protein connectivity. Hsp90's effect on kinase evolutionary rate was detected across mammals, specifically relaxing purifying selection. Hsp90 clients also showed increased nucleotide diversity and harbored more damaging variation than non-client kinases across humans. These results are consistent with the central argument of the capacitor hypothesis that interaction with the chaperone allows its clients to harbor genetic variation. Hsp90 client status is thought to be highly dynamic with as few as one amino acid change rendering a protein dependent on the chaperone. Contrary to this expectation, we found that across protein kinase phylogeny Hsp90 client status tends to be gained, maintained, and shared among closely related kinases. We also infer that the ancestral protein kinase was not an Hsp90 client. Taken together, our results suggest that Hsp90 played an important role in shaping the kinase superfamily.", u'Ash dieback is a fungal disease of ash trees caused by Hymenoscyphus pseudoalbidus that has swept across Europe in the last two decades and is a significant threat to the ash population. This emergent pathogen has been relatively poorly studied and little is known about its genetic make-up. In response to the arrival of this dangerous pathogen in the UK we took the unusual step of providing an open access database and initial sequence datasets to the scientific community for analysis prior to performing an analysis of our own. Our goal was to crowdsource genomic and other analyses and create a community analysing this pathogen. In this report on the evolution of the community and data and analysis obtained in the first year of this activity, we describe the nature and the volume of the contributions and reveal some preliminary insights into the genome and biology of H. pseudoalbidus that emerged. In particular our nascent community generated a first-pass genome assembly containing abundant collapsed AT-rich repeats indicating a typically complex genome structure. Our open science and crowdsourcing effort has brought a wealth of new knowledge about this emergent pathogen within a short time-frame. Our community endeavour highlights the positive impact that open, collaborative approaches can have on fast, responsive modern science.', u'The mechanism and significance of epigenetic variability in the same cell type between healthy individuals are not clear.  Here, we purify human CD34+ hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) from different individuals and find that there is increased variability of DNA methylation at loci with properties of promoters and enhancers.  The variability is especially enriched at candidate enhancers near genes transitioning between silent and expressed states, and encoding proteins with leukocyte differentiation properties.  Our findings of increased variability at loci with intermediate DNA methylation values, at candidate "poised" enhancers, and at genes involved in HSPC lineage commitment suggest that CD34+ cell subtype heterogeneity between individuals is a major mechanism for the variability observed.  Epigenomic studies performed on cell populations, even when purified, are testing collections of epigenomes, or meta-epigenomes.  Our findings show that meta-epigenomic approaches to data analysis can provide insights into cell subpopulation structure.', u'The advent of high-throughput sequencing has allowed genome wide profiling of histone modifications by Chromatin ImmunoPrecipitation (ChIP) followed by sequencing (ChIP-seq). In this assay the histone mark of interest is enriched through a chromatin pull-down assay using an antibody for the mark. Due to imperfect antibodies and other factors, many of the sequenced fragments do not originate from the histone mark of interest, and are referred to as background reads. Background reads are not uniformly distributed and therefore control samples are usually used to estimate the background distribution at any given genomic position. The Encyclopedia of DNA Elements (ENCODE) Consortium guidelines suggest sequencing a whole cell extract (WCE, or "input") sample, or a mock ChIP reaction such as an IgG control, as a background sample. However, for a histone modification ChIP-seq investigation it is also possible to use a Histone H3 (H3) pull-down to map the underlying distribution of histones.\n\nIn this paper we generated data from a hematopoietic stem and progenitor cell population isolated from mouse foetal liver to compare WCE and H3 ChIP-seq as control samples. The quality of the control samples is estimated by a comparison to pull-downs of histone modifications and to expression data. We find minor differences between WCE and H3 ChIP-seq, such as coverage in mitochondria and behaviour close to transcription start sites. Where the two controls differ, the H3 pull-down is generally more similar to the ChIP-seq of histone modifications. However, the differences between H3 and WCE have a negligible impact on the quality of a standard analysis.', u'When working on an ongoing genome sequencing and assembly project, it is rather inconvenient when gene identifiers change from one build of the assembly to the next. The gene labelling system described here, UniqTag, addresses this common challenge. UniqTag assigns a unique identifier to each gene that is a representative <em>k</em>-mer, a string of length <em>k</em>, selected from the sequence of that gene. Unlike serial numbers, these identifiers are stable between different assemblies and annotations of the same data without requiring that previous annotations be lifted over by sequence alignment. We assign UniqTag identifiers to nine builds of the Ensembl human genome spanning seven years to demonstrate this stability.', u'Motivation:  In computing pairwise alignments of biological sequences, software implementations employ a variety of heuristics that decrease the computational effort involved in computing potential alignments.  A key element in achieving high processing throughput is to identify and prioritize potential alignments where high-scoring mappings can be expected.  These tasks involve list-processing operations that can be efficiently performed on GPU hardware.\n\nResults:  We implemented a read aligner called A21 that exploits GPU-based parallel sort and reduction techniques to restrict the number of locations where potential alignments may be found.  When compared with other high-throughput aligners, this approach finds more high-scoring mappings without sacrificing speed or accuracy.  A21 running on a single GPU is about 10 times faster than comparable CPU-based tools; it is also faster and more sensitive in comparison with other recent GPU-based aligners.', u'Given increasing numbers of RNA-seq samples in the public domain, we studied to what extent expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) and allele-specific expression (ASE) can be identified in public RNA-seq data while also deriving the genotypes from the RNA-seq reads. 4,978 human RNA-seq runs, representing many different tissues and cell-types, passed quality control. Even though this data originated from many different laboratories, samples reflecting the same cell-type clustered together, suggesting that technical biases due to different sequencing protocols were limited. We derived genotypes from the RNA-seq reads and imputed non-coding variants. In a joint analysis on 1,262 samples combined, we identified cis-eQTLs effects for 8,034 unique genes. Additionally, we observed strong ASE effects for 34 rare pathogenic variants, corroborating previously observed effects on the corresponding protein levels. Given the exponential growth of the number of publicly available RNA-seq samples, we expect this approach will become relevant for studying tissue-specific effects of rare pathogenic genetic variants.', u'In just two years, genome editing with the CRISPR-associated endonuclease Cas9 has transformed genetic analysis in conventional and emerging model organisms. The efficiency of this method varies among systems and continues to be optimized. Numerous strategies have been reported for editing the C. elegans genome. To date, these strategies do not provide a simple, rapid and inexpensive means to introduce and isolate arbitrary point mutants. Here, we report a strategy with all three of these desirable properties. It utilizes oligonucleotides as donor templates for homology-dependent repair and visible markers that are edited in parallel that markedly reduce the number of animals that must be molecularly screened in order to isolate mutants that lack visible phenotypes.', u'Despite its role in homogenizing populations, hybridization has also been proposed as a means to generate new species. The conceptual basis for this idea is that hybridization can result in novel phenotypes through recombination between the parental genomes, allowing a hybrid population to occupy ecological niches unavailable to parental species. A key feature of these models is that these novel phenotypes ecologically isolate hybrid populations from parental populations, precipitating speciation.  Here we present an alternative model of the evolution of reproductive isolation in hybrid populations that occurs as a simple consequence of selection against incompatibilities. Unlike previous models, our model does not require small population sizes, the availability of new niches for hybrids or ecological or sexual selection on hybrid traits. We show that reproductive isolation between hybrids and parents evolves frequently and rapidly under this model, even in the presence of ongoing migration with parental species and strong selection against hybrids. Our model predicts that multiple distinct hybrid species can emerge from replicate hybrid populations formed from the same parental species, potentially generating patterns of species diversity and relatedness that mimic adaptive radiations.', u'1.\tUnderstanding how landscape features affect functional connectivity among populations is a cornerstone of landscape genetic analyses. However, parameterization of resistance surfaces that best describe connectivity is largely a subjective process that explores a limited parameter space.\n\n2.\tResistanceGA is a new R package that utilizes a genetic algorithm to optimize resistance surfaces based on pairwise genetic distances and either CIRCUITSCAPE resistance distances or cost distances calculated along least cost paths. Functions in this package allow for the optimization of both categorical and continuous resistance surfaces, as well as the simultaneous optimization of multiple resistance surfaces.\n\n3.\tThere is considerable controversy concerning the use of Mantel tests to accurately relate pairwise genetic distances with resistance distances. Optimization in ResistanceGA uses linear mixed effects models with the maximum likelihood population effects parameterization to determine AICc, which is the fitness function for the genetic algorithm.\n\n4.\tResistanceGA fills a void in the landscape genetic toolbox, allowing for unbiased optimization of resistance surfaces and for the simultaneous optimization of multiple resistance surfaces to create a novel composite resistance surface.', u'Recent progress in resolving the tree of life continues to expose relationships that resist resolution, which drives the search for novel sources of information to solve these difficult phylogenetic problems. A recent example, the presence and absence of microRNA families, has been vigorously promoted as an ideal source of phylogenetic data and has been applied to several perennial phylogenetic problems. The utility of such data for phylogenetic inference hinges critically both on developing stochastic models that provide a reasonable description of the process that give rise to these data, and also on the careful validation of those models in real inference scenarios. Remarkably, however, the statistical behavior and phylogenetic utility of microRNA data have not yet been rigorously characterized. Here we explore the behavior and performance of microRNA presence/absence data under a variety of evolutionary models and reexamine datasets from several previous studies. We find that highly heterogeneous rates of microRNA gain and loss, pervasive secondary loss, and sampling error collectively render microRNA-based inference of phylogeny difficult. Moreover, our reanalyses fundamentally alter the conclusions for four of the five studies that we reexamined. Our results indicate that the capacity of miRNA data to resolve the tree of life has been overstated, and we urge caution in their application and interpretation.', u'Motivation: The Oxford Nanopore MinION device represents a unique sequencing technology.  As a mobile sequencing device powered by the USB port of a laptop, the MinION has huge potential applications.  To enable these applications, the bioinformatics community will need to design and build a suite of tools specifically for MinION data.  \nResults: Here we present poRe, a package for the statistical software R that enables users to manipulate, organize, summarise and visualize MinION nanopore sequencing data.  As a packge for R, poRe has been tested on both Windows and Linux.  Crucially, the Windows version allows users to analyse MinION data on the Windows laptop attached to the device\nAvailability: Pre-built R packages for Windows and Linux are available under a BSD license at http://sourceforge.net/projects/rpore/\nContact: mick.watson@roslin.ed.ac.uk', u'Background\nRNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) is a powerful technique for transcriptome profiling of the organisms that uses the capabilities of next-generation sequencing (NGS) technologies. Recent advances in NGS let to measure the expression levels of tens to thousands of transcripts simultaneously. Using such information, developing expression-based classification algorithms is an emerging powerful method for diagnosis, disease classification and monitoring at molecular level, as well as providing potential markers of disease. Here, we present the bagging support vector machines (bagSVM), a machine learning approach and bagged ensembles of support vector machines (SVM), for classification of RNA-Seq data. The bagSVM basically uses bootstrap technique and trains each single SVM separately; next it combines the results of each SVM model using majority-voting technique.\nResults\nWe demonstrate the performance of the bagSVM on simulated and real datasets. Simulated datasets are generated from negative binomial distribution under different scenarios and real datasets are obtained from publicly available resources. A deseq normalization and variance stabilizing transformation (vst) were applied to all datasets. We compared the results with several classifiers including Poisson linear discriminant analysis (PLDA), single SVM, classification and regression trees (CART), and random forests (RF). In slightly overdispersed data, all methods, except CART algorithm, performed well. Performance of PLDA seemed to be best and RF as second best for very slightly and substantially overdispersed datasets. While data become more spread, bagSVM turned out to be the best classifier. In overall results, bagSVM and PLDA had the highest accuracies.\nConclusions\nAccording to our results, bagSVM algorithm after vst transformation can be a good choice of classifier for RNA-Seq datasets mostly for overdispersed ones. Thus, we recommend researchers to use bagSVM algorithm for the purpose of classification of RNA-Seq data. PLDA algorithm should be a method of choice for slight and moderately overdispersed datasets. \nAn R/BIOCONDUCTOR package MLSeq with a vignette is freely available at http://www.bioconductor.org/packages/2.14/bioc/html/MLSeq.html\nKeywords: Bagging, machine learning, RNA-Seq classification, support vector machines, transcriptomics', u'Rapid molecular typing of bacterial pathogens is critical for public health epidemiology, surveillance and infection control, yet routine use of whole genome sequencing (WGS) for these purposes poses significant challenges. Here we present SRST2, a read mapping-based tool for fast and accurate detection of genes, alleles and multi-locus sequence types (MLST) from WGS data. Using >900 genomes from common pathogens, we show SRST2 is highly accurate and outperforms assembly-based methods in terms of both gene detection and allele assignment. Here we have demonstrated the use of SRST2 for microbial genome surveillance in a variety of public health and hospital settings. In the face of rising threats of antimicrobial resistance and emerging virulence amongst bacterial pathogens, SRST2 represents a powerful tool for rapidly extracting clinically useful information from raw WGS data. \n\nSource code is available from http://katholt.github.io/srst2/', u'Short tandem repeat (STR) variation has been proposed as a major explanatory factor in the heritability of complex traits in humans and model organisms. However, we still struggle to incorporate STR variation into genotype-phenotype maps. Here, we review the promise of STRs in contributing to complex trait heritability, and highlight the challenges that STRs pose due to their repetitive nature. We argue that STR variants are more likely than single nucleotide variants to have epistatic interactions, reiterate the need for targeted assays to accurately genotype STRs, and call for more appropriate statistical methods in detecting STR-phenotype associations. Lastly, somatic STR variation within individuals may serve as a read-out of disease susceptibility, and is thus potentially a valuable covariate for future association studies.', u'Abstract\nShort tandem repeats (STRs) are highly mutable genetic elements that often reside in functional genomic regions. The cumulative evidence of genetic studies on individual STRs suggests that STR variation profoundly affects phenotype and contributes to trait heritability. Despite recent advances in sequencing technology, STR variation has remained largely inaccessible across many individuals compared to single nucleotide variation or copy number variation. STR genotyping with short-read sequence data is confounded by (1) the difficulty of uniquely mapping short, low-complexity reads and (2) the high rate of STR amplification stutter. Here, we present MIPSTR, a robust, scalable, and affordable method that addresses these challenges. MIPSTR uses targeted capture of STR loci by single-molecule Molecular Inversion Probes (smMIPs) and a unique mapping strategy. Targeted capture and mapping strategy resolve the first challenge; the use of single molecule information resolves the second challenge. Unlike previous methods, MIPSTR is capable of distinguishing technical error due to amplification stutter from somatic STR mutations. In proof-of-principle experiments, we use MIPSTR to determine germ-line STR genotypes for 102 STR loci with high accuracy across diverse populations of the plant A. thaliana. We show that putatively functional STRs may be identified by deviation from predicted STR variation and by association with quantitative phenotypes. Employing DNA mixing experiments and a mutant deficient in DNA repair, we demonstrate that MIPSTR can detect low-frequency somatic STR variants. MIPSTR is applicable to any organism with a high-quality reference genome and is scalable to genotyping many thousands of STR loci in thousands of individuals.', u'Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are mRNA-like transcripts longer than 200 bp that have no protein-coding potential.  lncRNAs have recently been implicated in epigenetic regulation, transcriptional and post-transcriptional gene regulation, and regulation of genomic stability in mammals, Caenorhabditis elegans, and Drosophila melanogaster.  Using deep RNA sequencing of multiple Anopheles gambiae life stages, we have identified over 600 novel lncRNAs and more than 200 previously unannotated putative protein-coding genes.  The lncRNAs exhibit differential expression profiles across life stages and adult genders.  Those lncRNAs that are antisense to known protein-coding genes or are contained within intronic regions of protein-coding genes may mediate transcriptional repression or stabilization of associated mRNAs.  lncRNAs exhibit faster rates of sequence evolution across anophelines compared to previously known and newly identified protein-coding genes.  This initial description of lncRNAs in An. gambiae offers the first genome-wide insights into long non-coding RNAs in this vector mosquito and defines a novel set of potential targets for the development of vector-based interventions that may curb the human malaria burden in disease-endemic countries.', u'The National Institutes of Health (NIH) is the largest source of funding for biomedical research in the world. This funding is largely effected through a competitive grants process. Each year the Center for Scientific Review (CSR) at NIH manages the evaluation, by peer review, of more than 55,000 grant applications. A relevant management question is how this scientific evaluation system, supported by finite resources, could be continuously evaluated and improved for maximal benefit to the scientific community and the taxpaying public. Towards this purpose, we have created the first system-level description of peer review at CSR by applying text analysis, bibliometric, and graph visualization techniques to administrative records. We identify otherwise latent relationships across scientific clusters, which in turn suggest opportunities for structural reorganization of the system based on expert evaluation. Such studies support the creation of monitoring tools and provide transparency and knowledge to stakeholders', u'Many components of Wnt/\u03b2-catenin signaling pathway have critical functions in mammary gland development and tumor formation, yet the contribution of glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3\u03b1 and GSK-3\u03b2) to mammopoiesis and oncogenesis is unclear. Here, we report that WAP-Cre-mediated deletion of GSK-3 in the mammary epithelium results in activation of Wnt/\u03b2-catenin signaling and induces mammary intraepithelial neoplasia that progresses to squamous transdifferentiation and development of adenosquamous carcinomas at 6 months. To uncover possible \u03b2-catenin-independent activities of GSK-3, we generated mammary-specific knock-outs of GSK-3 and \u03b2-catenin. Squamous transdifferentiation of the mammary epithelium was largely attenuated, however mammary epithelial cells lost the ability to form mammospheres suggesting perturbation of stem cell properties unrelated to loss of \u03b2-catenin alone. At 10 months, adenocarcinomas that developed in glands lacking GSK-3 and \u03b2-catenin displayed elevated levels of \u03b3-catenin/plakoglobin as well as activation of the Hedgehog and Notch pathways. Collectively these results establish the two isoforms of GSK-3 as essential integrators of multiple developmental signals that act to maintain normal mammary gland function and suppress tumorigenesis.', u'We chose yeast as a model organism to explore how eukaryotic cells respond to heat stress. This study provides details on the way yeast responds to temperature changes and is therefore an empirical reference for basic cell research and industrial fermentation of yeast. We use the Qlucore Omics Explorer (QOE) bioinformatics software to analyze the gene expression profiles of the heat stress from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO). Genes and their expression are listed in heat maps, and the gene function is analyzed against the biological processes and pathways. We can find that the expression of genes changed over time after heat stress. Gene expression changed rapidly from 0 min to 60 min after heat shock, and gene expression stabilized between 60 min to 360 min. The yeast cells begin to adjust themselves to the high temperatures in terms of the level of gene expression at about 60 min. In all of the involved pathways and biological processes, those related to ribosome and nucleic acid metabolism declined in about 15?30 min and those related to starch and sucrose increased in the same time frame. Temperature can be a simple way to control the biological processes and pathways of cell.', u'Coupling between sensory neurons impacts their tuning properties and correlations in their responses. How such coupling affects sensory representations and ultimately behavior remains unclear. We investigated the role of neuronal coupling during visual processing using a realistic biophysical model of the vertical system (VS) cell network in the blow fly. These neurons are thought to  encode the horizontal rotation axis during rapid free flight manoeuvres. Experimental findings suggest neurons of the vertical system are strongly electrically coupled, and that several downstream neurons driving motor responses to ego-rotation receive inputs primarily from a small subset of VS  cells. These downstream neurons must decode information about the axis of rotation from a partial readout of the VS population response. To investigate the role of coupling, we simulated the VS response to a variety of rotating visual scenes and\ncomputed optimal Bayesian estimates  from the  relevant subset of VS cells. Our analysis shows that coupling leads to near-optimal estimates from a subpopulation readout.\nIn contrast, coupling between VS cells has no impact on the quality of encoding in the response of the full population. We conclude that coupling at one level of the fly visual system allows for near-optimal decoding from partial information at the subsequent, pre-motor level. Thus, electrical coupling may provide a general mechanism to achieve near-optimal information transfer from neuronal subpopulations across organisms and modalities.', u'A broad range of aspects from paleontology to physiology of the ghost crabs Ocypode quadrata have been studied worldwide. These crabs have been used as ecological indicators of the levels of anthropogenic impacts on sandy beaches. Our aim is to report the variety of burrow architecture types constructed by ghost crabs Ocypode quadrata on beaches of Macei\xf3, Brazil. We found 20 types of burrows that differ in shape (number of axes, number of openings, orientation of blind end, number of branches). The slash-shaped burrows (type C) were the most frequent shape, followed by types K (spiral) and E (Y-shaped). Type C also showed the largest opening diameter and length ranges. Burrow types F, J, P, S and T were the least frequent. The G-test for goodness of fit to a time-independent uniform frequency distribution (G=417.61; d.f.=18; p<0.005) reject the hypothesis that burrow types are constructed randomly (uniform distribution). The dominance of type C burrows and other simple-type burrows over more elaborate types indicates preference for simplicity.', u'Clostridium difficile is the leading cause of hospital-borne infections occurring when the natural intestinal flora is depleted following antibiotic treatment. We present iMLTC804cdf, an extensively curated reconstructed metabolic network for the C. difficile pathogenic strain 630. iMLTC804cdf contains 804 genes, 705 metabolites and 766 metabolic, 145 exchange and 118 transport reactions. iMLTC804cdf is the most complete and accurate metabolic reconstruction of a gram-positive anaerobic bacteria to date. We validate the model with simulated growth assays in different media and carbon sources and use it to predict essential genes. We obtain 88.8% accuracy in the prediction of gene essentiality when compared to experimental data for B. subtilis homologs. We predict the existence of 83 essential genes and 68 essential gene pairs, a number of which are unique to C. difficile and have non-existing or predicted non-essential human homologs. For 19 of these potential therapeutic targets, we find 72 inhibitors of homologous proteins that could serve as starting points in the development of new antibiotics, including approved drugs with the potential for drug repositioning.', u'Background\nCurrent biomedical research needs to leverage and exploit the large amount of information reported in publications. Automated text mining approaches, in particular those aimed at finding relationships between entities, are key for identification of actionable knowledge from free text repositories. We present the BeFree system aimed at identifying relationships between biomedical entities with a special focus on genes and their associated diseases.  \n\nResults\nBy exploiting morpho-syntactic information of the text BeFree is able to identify gene-disease, drug-disease and drug-target associations with state-of-the-art performance. The application of BeFree to real-case scenarios shows its effectiveness in extracting information relevant for translational research. We show the value of the gene-disease associations extracted by BeFree through a number of analyses and integration with other data sources. BeFree succeeds in identifying genes associated to a major cause of morbidity worldwide, depression, which are not present in other public resources. Moreover, large-scale extraction and analysis of gene-disease associations, and integration with current biomedical knowledge, provided interesting insights on the kind of information that can be found in the literature, and raised challenges regarding data prioritization and curation. We found that only a small proportion of the gene-disease associations discovered by using BeFree is collected in expert-curated databases. Thus, there is a pressing need to find alternative strategies to manual curation to review, prioritize and curate text-mining data and incorporate it into domain-specific databases. We present our strategy for data prioritization and discuss its implications for supporting biomedical research and applications.\nConclusions\nBeFree is a novel  text mining system that performs competitively for the identification of gene-disease, drug-disease and drug-target associations. Our analyses show that mining only a small fraction of MEDLINE results in a large dataset of gene-disease associations, and only a small proportion of this dataset is actually recorded in curated resources, raising several issues on data prioritization and curation. We propose that joint analysis of text mined data with data curated by experts appears as a suitable approach to both assess data quality and highlight novel and interesting information.', u"In the study of networks, it is often insightful to use algorithms to determine mesoscale features such as ``community structure'', in which densely connected sets of nodes constitute ``communities'' that have sparse connections to other communities.  The most popular way of detecting communities algorithmically is to optimize the quality function known as modularity.  When optimizing modularity, one compares the actual connections in a (static or time-dependent) network to the connections obtained from a random-graph ensemble that acts as a null model.  The communities are then the sets of nodes that are connected to each other densely relative to what is expected from the null model.  Clearly, the process of community detection depends fundamentally on the choice of null model, so it is important to develop and analyze novel null models that take into account appropriate features of the system under study.  In this paper, we investigate the effects of using null models that take incorporate spatial information, and we propose a novel null model based on the radiation model of population spread.  We also develop novel synthetic spatial benchmark networks in which the connections between entities are based on distance or flux between nodes, and we compare the performance of both static and time-dependent radiation null models to the standard (``Newman-Girvan'') null model for modularity optimization and a recently-proposed gravity null model. In our comparisons, we use both the above synthetic benchmarks and time-dependent correlation networks that we construct using countrywide dengue fever incidence data for Peru. We also evaluate a recently-proposed correlation null model, which was developed specifically for correlation networks that are constructed from time series, on the epidemic-correlation data. Our findings underscore the need to use appropriate generative models for the development of spatial null models for community detection.", u'1. The application of whole genome capture (WGC) methods to ancient DNA (aDNA) promises to increase the efficiency of ancient genome sequencing.\n2. We compared the performance of two recently developed WGC methods in enriching human aDNA within Illumina libraries built using both double-stranded (DSL) and single-stranded (SSL) build protocols. Although both methods effectively enriched aDNA, one consistently produced marginally better results, giving us the opportunity to further explore the parameters influencing WGC experiments.\n3. Our results suggest that bait length has an important influence on library enrichment. Moreover, we show that WGC biases against the shorter molecules that are enriched in SSL preparation protocols. Therefore application of WGC to such samples is not recommended without future optimization. Lastly, we document the effect of WGC on other features including clonality, GC composition and repetitive DNA content of captured libraries.\n4. Our findings provide insights for researchers planning to perform WGC on aDNA, and suggest future tests and optimization to improve WGC efficiency.', u"Eukaryotes produce large numbers of small non-coding RNAs that act as specificity determinants for various gene-regulatory complexes. These include microRNAs (miRNAs), endogenous short interfering RNAs (siRNAs), and Piwi-associated RNAs (piRNAs). These RNAs can be discovered, annotated, and quantified using small RNA-seq, a variant RNA-seq method based on highly parallel sequencing. Alignment to a reference genome is a critical step in analysis of small RNA-seq data. Because of their small size (20-30 nts depending on the organism and sub-type) and tendency to originate from multi-gene families or repetitive regions, reads that align equally well to more than one genomic location are very common. Typical methods to deal with multi-mapped small RNA-seq reads sacrifice either precision or sensitivity. The tool 'butter' balances precision and sensitivity by placing multi-mapped reads using an iterative approach, where the decision between possible locations is dictated by the local densities of more confidently aligned reads. Butter displays superior performance relative to other small RNA-seq aligners. Treatment of multi-mapped small RNA-seq reads has substantial impacts on downstream analyses, including quantification of MIRNA paralogs, and discovery of endogenous siRNA loci. Butter is freely available under a GNU general public license.", u'Abstract Plant-animal mutualistic networks are highly diverse and structured. This has been explained by coevolution through niche based processes. However, this explanation is only warranted if neutral processes (e.g. limited dispersal, genetic and ecological drift) cannot explain these patterns. Here we present a spatially explicit model based on explicit genetics and quantitative traits to study the connection between genome evolution, speciation and plant-animal network demography. We consider simple processes for the speciation dynamics of plant-animal mutualisms: ecological (dispersal, demography) and genetic processes (mutation, recombination, drift) and morphological constraints (matching of quantitative trait) for species interactions, particularly mating. We find the evolution of trait convergence and complementarity and topological features observed in real plant-animal mutualistic webs (i.e. nestedness and centrality). Furthermore, the morphological constraint for plant reproduction generates higher centrality among plant individuals (and species) than in animals, consistent with observations. We argue that simple processes are able to reproduce some well known ecological and evolutionary patterns of plant-animal mutualistic webs.', u'Motivation: Nanopore sequencing may be the next disruptive technology in genomics. Nanopore sequencing has many attractive properties including the ability to detect single DNA molecules without prior amplification, the lack of reliance on expensive optical components, and the ability to sequence very long fragments. The MinION from Oxford Nanopore Technologies (ONT) is the first nanopore sequencer to be commercialised and made available to early-access users. The MinION(TM) is a USB-connected, portable nanopore sequencer which permits real-time analysis of streaming event data. A cloud-based service is available to translate events into nucleotide base calls. However, software support to deal with such data is limited, and the community lacks a standardized toolkit for the analysis of nanopore datasets.\n\nResults: We introduce poretools, a flexible toolkit for manipulating and exploring datasets generated by nanopore sequencing devices from MinION for the purposes of quality control and downstream analysis. Poretools operates directly on the native FAST5 (a variant of the HDF5 standard) file format produced by ONT and provides a wealth of format conversion utilities and data exploration and visualization tools.\n\nAvailability and implementation: Poretools is open source software and is written in Python as both a suite of command line utilities and a Python application programming interface. Source code and user documentation are freely available in Github at https://github.com/arq5x/poretools\n\nContact: n.j.loman@bham.ac.uk, aaronquinlan@gmail.com\n\nSupplementary information: An IPython notebook demonstrating the use and functionality of poretools in greater detail is available from the Github repository.', u'Temporal dynamics in many biomolecular circuits can change with temperature because of the temperature dependence of underlying reaction rate parameters. It is generally unclear what circuit mechanisms can inherently facilitate robustness in the dynamics to variations in temperature. Here, we address this issue using a combination of mathematical models and experimental measurements in a cell-free transcription-translation system. We find that negative transcriptional feedback can reduce the effect of temperature variation on circuit dynamics. Further, we find that effective negative feedback due to first-order degradation mechanisms can also enable such a temperature robustness effect. Finally, we estimate temperature dependence of key parameters mediating such negative feedback mechanisms. These results should be useful in the design of temperature robust circuit dynamics.', u'Community ecology is tasked with the considerable challenge of predicting the structure, and properties, of emerging ecosystems. It requires the ability to understand how and why species interact, as this will allow the development of mechanism-based predictive models, and as such to better characterize how ecological mechanisms act locally on the existence of inter-specific interactions. Here we argue that the current conceptualization of species interaction networks is ill-suited for this task. Instead, we propose that future research must start to account for the intrinsic variability of species interactions, then scale up from here onto complex networks. This can be accomplished simply by recognizing that there exists intra-specific variability, in traits or properties related to the establishment of species interactions. By shifting the scale towards population-based processes, we show that this new approach will improve our predictive ability and mechanistic understanding of how species interact over large spatial or temporal scales.', u'Several recent works have shown that protein structure can predict site-specific evolutionary sequence variation. In particular, sites that are buried and/or have many contacts with other sites in a structure have been shown to evolve more slowly, on average, than surface sites with few contacts. Here, we present a comprehensive study of the extent to which numerous structural properties can predict sequence variation. The quantities we considered include buriedness (as measured by relative solvent accessibility), packing density (as measured by contact number), structural flexibility (as measured by B factors, root-mean-square fluctuations, and variation in dihedral angles), and variability in designed structures. We obtained structural flexibility measures both from molecular dynamics simulations performed on 9 non-homologous viral protein structures and from variation in homologous variants of those proteins, where available. We obtained measures of variability in designed structures from flexible-backbone design in the Rosetta software. We found that most of the structural properties correlate with site variation in the majority of structures, though the correlations are generally weak (correlation coefficients of 0.1 to 0.4). Moreover, we found that buriedness and packing density were better predictors of evolutionary variation than was structural flexibility. Finally, variability in designed structures was a weaker predictor of evolutionary variability than was buriedness or packing density, but it was comparable in its predictive power to the best structural flexibility measures. We conclude that simple measures of buriedness and packing density are better predictors of evolutionary variation than are more complicated predictors obtained from dynamic simulations, ensembles of homologous structures, or computational protein design.', u'In this Perspective, I provide the rationale for my hypothesis that nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) prevent HIV cure by promoting the survival of cells with integrated provirus.  If correct, we may be closer to a cure than we realize.', u"The paradigm of competitive males vying to influence female mate choice has been repeatedly upheld, but, increasingly, studies also report competitive females and choosy males. One female trait that is commonly proposed to influence male mate choice is the exaggerated estrous swelling displayed by females of many Old World primate species. The reliable indicator hypothesis posits that females use the exaggerated swellings to compete for access to mates by advertising variation in female fitness. We tested the two main predictions of this hypothesis in a wild population of baboons (Papio cynocephalus). First, we examined the effect of swelling size on the probability of mate-guarding ('consortship') by the highest-ranking male and the behavior of those males that trailed consorshipts ('follower males'). Second, we asked whether a female's swelling size predicted several fitness measures. We found that high-ranking males do not prefer females with larger swellings (when controlling for cycle number and conception) and that females with larger swellings did not have higher reproductive success. In doing so, we have tested and rejected the reliable indicator hypothesis for the function of exaggerated swellings in cercopithecine primates. Furthermore, we found unambiguous evidence that males biased their mating decisions in favor of females who had experienced more sexual cycles since their most recent pregnancy. Thus, rather than tracking the potential differences in fitness between females, male baboons appear to track and target the potential for a given reproductive opportunity to result in fertilization.", u'While screening a large collection of wild and laboratory yeast isolates for their ability to attract Drosophila melanogaster adults, we noticed a large difference in fly preference for two nearly isogenic strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, BY4741 and BY4742. Using standard genetic analyses, we tracked the preference difference to the lack of functional mitochondria the stock of BY4742 used in the initial experiment. We used gas chromatography coupled with mass spectroscopy to examine the volatile compounds produced by BY4741 and the mitochondria-deficient BY4742, and found they differed significantly. We found that several ethyl esters are present at much higher levels in strains with functional mitochondria, even in fermentative conditions. We confirmed the role of these ethyl esters in attraction by examining an EEB1\u0394 strain which reduces ethyl ester production. We found that nitrogen levels in the substrate affect the production of these compounds, and that they are produced at high levels by strains with functional mitochondria in the fermentation of natural substrates. Collectively these observations demonstrate the effect core metabolic processes have in mediating the interaction between yeasts and insect vectors, and highlight the importance of non-respirative mitochondrial functions in yeast ecology.', u'Summary: Molecular inversion probes (MIPs) allow efficient enrichment of genomic regions of interest for the purpose of targeted sequencing. To date, there is a paucity of simple-to-use software to align sequences derived from this method. Here, we describe a single program that performs mapping, arm removal, and deduplication before outputting alignments in SAM format.\nAvailability: bwa-mips is available at https://github.com/brentp/bwa-mips under the MIT license.\nContact: bpederse@gmail.com', u'In studies of gene regulation, it is often tacitly assumed that the interactions between transcriptional regulators and their target promoters are finely tuned to ensure condition-appropriate gene expression of the targets. However, how natural selection might evolve such precise regulation from an initial state without regulation, is rarely discussed. In addition, the accuracy of gene regulation is affected by noise in gene expression [1]. Expression noise varies greatly across genes [2?5], suggesting that natural selection has affected noise levels, but the role of expression noise in gene regulation is currently poorly understood [6]. Here we present a combination of experimental evidence and theoretical modeling showing that the transmission of expression noise from regulators to their targets can function as a rudimentary form of gene regulation that facilitates the evolution of more finely tuned gene regulation. \nTo assess how natural selection has affected transcriptional noise in E. coli, we evolved a large set of synthetic promoters under carefully controlled selective conditions and found, surprisingly, that native E. coli promoters show no signs of having been selected for minimizing their noise. Instead, a subset of native promoters, which are characterized by high expression plasticity and high numbers of regulatory inputs, show elevated noise levels. A general theoretical model, which recognizes that target genes are not only affected by the condition-dependent activities of their regulators, but also by the regulators? noise, explains these observations. Noise transmission from regulators to their targets is favored by selection whenever regulation is imprecise, and may even constitute the main function of coupling a promoter to a regulator. Our theory provides a novel framework for understanding the evolution of gene regulation, demonstrating that in many situations expression noise is not the mere unwanted side-effect of regulatory interactions, but a beneficial function that is key to the evolvability of regulatory interactions.', u'Motivation:\nRNA sequencing enables allele specific expression (ASE) studies that complement standard genotype expression studies for common variants and, importantly, also allow measuring the regulatory impact of rare variants. The Genotype-Tissue Expression project (GTEx) is collecting RNA-seq data on multiple tissues of a same set of individuals and novel methods are required for the analysis of these data.\n\nResults:\nWe present a statistical method to compare different patterns of ASE\nacross tissues and to classify genetic variants according to their\nimpact on the tissue-wide expression profile. We focus on strong ASE effects that we are expecting to see for protein-truncating variants, but our method can also be adjusted for other types of ASE effects.\nWe illustrate the method with a real data example on a tissue-wide expression profile of a variant causal for lipoid proteinosis, and with a simulation study to assess our method more generally.\n\nAvailability:\nMAMBA software: http://birch.well.ox.ac.uk/~rivas/mamba/\nR source code and data examples: http://www.iki.fi/mpirinen/\n\nContact:\nmatti.pirinen@helsinki.fi\nrivas@well.ox.ac.uk', u'Genome-scale genetic interaction networks are progressively contributing to map the molecular circuitry that determines cellular behaviour. To what extent this mapping changes in response to different environmental or genetic conditions is however largely unknown. Here we assembled a genetic network using an in silico model of metabolism in yeast to explicitly ask how separate genetic backgrounds alter network structure. Backgrounds defined by single deletions of metabolically active enzymes induce strong rewiring when the deletion corresponds to a catabolic gene, evidencing a broad redistribution of fluxes to alternative pathways. We also show how change is more pronounced in interactions linking genes in distinct functional modules, and in those connections that present weak epistasis. These patterns reflect overall the distributed robustness of catabolism. In a second class of genetic backgrounds, in which a number of neutral mutations accumulate, we dominantly observe modifications in the negative interactions that together with an increase in the number of essential genes indicate a global reduction in buffering. Notably, neutral trajectories that originate considerable changes in the wild-type network comprise mutations that diminished the environmental plasticity of the corresponding metabolism, what emphasizes a mechanistic integration of genetic and environmental buffering. More generally, our work demonstrates how the specific mechanistic causes of robustness influence the architecture of multiconditional genetic interaction maps.', u'Behavior is a unifying organismal process where genes, neural function, anatomy and environment converge and interrelate. Here we review the current state and discuss the future impact of accelerating advances in technology for behavioral studies, focusing on rodents as an exemplar. We frame our perspective in three dimensions: degree of experimental constraint, dimensionality of data, and level of description. We argue that "big behavioral data" presents challenges proportionate to its promise and describe how these challenges might be met through opportunities afforded by the two rival conceptual legacies of 20th century behavioral science, ethology and psychology. We conclude that although "more is not necessarily better", copious, quantitative and open behavioral data has the potential to transform and unify these two disciplines and to solidify the foundations of others, including neuroscience, but only if the development of novel theoretical frameworks and improved experimental designs matches the technological progress.', u'Gene drives may be capable of addressing ecological problems by altering entire populations of wild organisms, but their use has remained largely theoretical due to technical constraints. Here we consider the potential for RNA-guided gene drives based on the CRISPR nuclease Cas9 to serve as a general method for spreading altered traits through wild populations over many generations. We detail likely capabilities, discuss limitations, and provide novel precautionary strategies to control the spread of gene drives and reverse genomic changes. The ability to edit populations of sexual species would offer substantial benefits to humanity and the environment. For example, RNA-guided gene drives could potentially prevent the spread of disease, support agriculture by reversing pesticide and herbicide resistance in insects and weeds, and control damaging invasive species. However, the possibility of unwanted ecological effects and near-certainty of spread across political borders demand careful assessment of each potential application. We call for thoughtful, inclusive, and well-informed public discussions to explore the responsible use of this currently theoretical technology.', u'Genome size varies dramatically across species, but despite an abundance of attention there is little agreement on the relative contributions of selective and neutral processes in governing this variation. The rate of sexual reproduction can potentially play an important role in genome size evolution because of its effect on the efficacy of selection and transmission of transposable elements. Here, we used a phylogenetic comparative approach and whole genome sequencing to investigate the contribution of sex and transposable element content to genome size variation in the evening primrose (Oenothera) genus. We determined genome size using flow cytometry from 30 Oenothera species of varying reproductive system and find that variation in sexual/asexual reproduction cannot explain the almost two-fold variation in genome size. Moreover, using whole genome sequences of three species of varying genome sizes and reproductive system, we found that genome size was not associated with transposable element abundance; instead the larger genomes had a higher abundance of simple sequence repeats. Although it has long been clear that sexual reproduction may affect various aspects of genome evolution in general and transposable element evolution in particular, it does not appear to have played a major role in the evening primroses.', u'The study of microbial communities has been revolutionised in recent years by the widespread adoption of culture independent analytical techniques such as 16S rRNA gene sequencing and metagenomics. One potential confounder of these sequence-based approaches is the presence of contamination in DNA extraction kits and other laboratory reagents. \nIn this study we demonstrate that contaminating DNA is ubiquitous in commonly used DNA extraction kits, varies greatly in composition between different kits and kit batches, and that this contamination critically impacts results obtained from samples containing a low microbial biomass. \nContamination impacts both PCR-based 16S rRNA gene surveys and shotgun metagenomics. These results suggest that caution should be advised when applying sequence-based techniques to the study of microbiota present in low biomass environments. We provide an extensive list of potential contaminating genera, and guidelines on how to mitigate the effects of contamination. Concurrent sequencing of negative control samples is strongly advised.', u"Accurately quantifying gene expression levels is a key goal of\nexperiments using RNA-sequencing to assay the transcriptome. This\ntypically requires aligning the short reads generated to the genome or\ntranscriptome before quantifying expression of pre-defined sets of\ngenes. Differences in the alignment/quantification tools can have a\nmajor effect upon the expression levels found with important\nconsequences for biological interpretation. Here we address two main\nissues: do different analysis pipelines affect the gene expression\nlevels inferred from RNA-seq data? And, how close are the expression\nlevels inferred to the ``true'' expression levels? \n\nWe evaluate fifty gene profiling pipelines in experimental and\nsimulated data sets with different characteristics (e.g, read length\nand sequencing depth).  In the absence of knowledge of the 'ground\ntruth' in real RNAseq data sets, we used simulated data to assess the\ndifferences between the true expression and those reconstructed by the\nanalysis pipelines. Even though this approach does not take into\naccount all known biases present in RNAseq data, it still allows to\nassess the accuracy of the gene expression values inferred by\ndifferent analysis pipelines.  The results show that i) overall there\nis a high correlation between the expression levels inferred by the\nbest pipelines and the true quantification values; ii) the error in\nthe estimated gene expression values can vary considerably across\ngenes; and iii) a small set of genes have expression estimates with\nconsistently high error (across data sets and methods). Finally,\nalthough the mapping software is important, the quantification method\nmakes a greater difference to the results.", u'Heritable variation in gene expression is a source of evolutionary change and our understanding of the genetic basis of expression variation remains incomplete. Here, we dissected the genetic basis of transcriptional variation in a wild, outbreeding gymnosperm (Picea glauca) according to linked and unlinked genetic variants, their allele-specific (cis) and allele non-specific (trans) effects, and their phenotypic additivity. We used a novel plant system that is based on the analysis of segregating alleles of a single self-fertilized plant in haploid and diploid seed tissues. We measured transcript abundance and identified transcribed SNPs in 66 seeds with RNA-seq. Linked and unlinked genetic effects that influenced expression levels were abundant in the haploid megagametophyte tissue, influencing 48% and 38% of analyzed genes, respectively. Analysis of these effects in diploid embryos revealed that while distant effects were acting in trans consistent with their hypothesized diffusible nature, local effects were associated with a complex mix of cis, trans and compensatory effects. Most cis effects were additive irrespective of their effect sizes, consistent with a hypothesis that they represent rate-limiting factors in transcript accumulation. We show that trans effects fulfilled a key prediction of Wright?s physiological theory, in which variants with small effects tend to be additive and those with large effects tend to be dominant/recessive. Our haploid/diploid approach allows a comprehensive genetic dissection of expression variation and can be applied to a large number of wild plant species.', u'We analyze the sharing of very short identity by descent (IBD) segments between humans, Neandertals, and Denisovans to gain new insights into their demographic history. Short IBD segments convey information about events far back in time because the shorter IBD segments are, the older they are assumed to be. The identification of short IBD segments becomes possible through next generation sequencing (NGS), which offers high variant density and reports variants of all frequencies. However, only recently HapFABIA has been proposed as the first method for detecting very short IBD segments in NGS data. HapFABIA utilizes rare variants to identify IBD segments with a low false discovery rate.\n\nWe applied HapFABIA to the 1000 Genomes Project whole genome sequencing data to identify IBD segments that are shared within and between populations. Many IBD segments have to be old since they are shared with Neandertals or Denisovans, which explains their shorter lengths compared to segments that are not shared with these ancient genomes. The Denisova genome most prominently matches IBD segments that are shared by Asians. Many of these segments were found exclusively in Asians and they are longer than segments shared between other continental populations and the Denisova genome. Therefore, we could confirm an introgression from Deniosvans into ancestors of Asians after their migration out of Africa. While Neandertal-matching IBD segments are most often shared by Asians, Europeans share a considerably higher percentage of IBD segments with Neandertals compared to other populations, too. Again, many of these Neandertal-matching IBD segments are found exclusively in Asians, whereas Neandertal-matching IBD segments that are shared by Europeans are often found in other populations, too. Neandertal-matching IBD segments that are shared by Asians or Europeans are longer than those observed in Africans. These IBD segments hint at a gene flow from Neandertals into ancestors of Asians and Europeans after they left Africa. Interestingly, many Neandertal- and/or Denisova-matching IBD segments are predominantly observed in Africans - some of them even exclusively. IBD segments shared between Africans and Neandertals or Denisovans are strikingly short, therefore we assume that they are very old. Consequently, we conclude that DNA regions from ancestors of humans, Neandertals, and Denisovans have survived in Africans. As expected, IBD segments on chromosome X are on average longer than IBD segments on the autosomes. Neandertal-matching IBD segments on chromosome X confirm gene flow from Neandertals into ancestors of Asians and Europeans outside Africa that was already found on the autosomes. Interestingly, there is hardly any signal of Denisova introgression on the X chromosome.', u'We have discovered a novel and specific mechanism of endothelial cell death.We refer to this novel death mechanism as massively calcified endosomal death, or MCED.  Exposure of endothelial cells to non-specific toxins or other physical stresses induces death by traditional apoptotic and non-apoptotic mechanisms, common to most different types of cells. In contrast, exposure of endothelial cells (but not other types of nucleated cells) to specific insults, such as oxidized pathogenic lipids (e.g. 7-ketocholesterol) or agents with known anti-angiogenic activity (e.g. bevacizumab, certain tyrosine kinase inhibitors, etc.) triggers cell death via a novel pathway, which involves the formation of massively calcified endosomes, which, in turn, escape from the dying endothelial cells as massively calcified exosomes. These endosomes/exosomes appear capable of provoking an inflammatory response, characterized by physical association of calcified microparticles with inflammatory cells (monocytes, lymphocytes, neutrophils) with resulting increased release of an inflammatory mediator (TNF) into the culture medium. Traditional media for the culture of endothelial cells are profoundly inhibitory to MCED, as are some mammalian sera and many human sera, explaining why MCED had not been previously discovered and reported. The present discovery of MCED was accidental, resulting from work with primary cultures of fresh human tumor cell clusters, which invariably contain microcapillary cells Our culture media are optimized for the tumor cells and not for the endothelial cells and, thus, are permissive of MCED. I propose MCED as the central mechanism underlying both intimal calcification and vascular inflammation in atherosclerosis.', u'The advantages of RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) suggest it will replace microarrays for highly parallel gene expression analysis. For example, in contrast to arrays, RNA-Seq is expected to be able to provide accurate identification and quantification of full-length transcripts. A number of methods have been developed for this purpose, but short error prone reads makes it a difficult problem in practice. It is essential to determine which algorithms perform best, and where and why they fail. However, there is a dearth of independent and unbiased benchmarking studies of these algorithms. Here we take an approach using both simulated and experimental benchmark data to evaluate their accuracy. We conclude that most methods are inaccurate even using idealized data, and that no is method sufficiently accurate once complicating factors such as polymorphisms, intron signal, sequencing error, and multiple splice forms are present. These results point to the pressing need for further algorithm development.', u'The paradox of biological diversity is the key problem of theoretical ecology. The paradox consists in the contradiction between the competitive exclusion principle and the observed biodiversity. This principle was formulated incorrectly because of limitations of the traditional black-box models of interspecific competition. The principle is very important as the basis for understanding evolutionary processes. Our white-box multiscale models are based on logical deterministic individual-based cellular automata. This approach allows to provide an automatic deductive inference on the basis of a system of axioms and to get a direct holistic insight into the studied system. It is one of the most promising methods of artificial intelligence. Here on simplest models we show a mechanism of competitive coexistence which violates the known formulations of the competitive exclusion principle. We reformulate and generalize the competitive exclusion principle and explain why our formulations provide a solution of the biodiversity paradox. In addition, we propose a principle of competitive coexistence', u'Background: Genome sequencing studies of chronic lympoid leukemia (CLL) have provided a comprehensive overview of recurrent somatic mutations in coding genes. One of the most intriguing discoveries has been the prevalence of mutations in the HEAT-repeat domain of the splicing factor SF3B1. A frequently observed variant is predicted to cause the substitution of a lysine with a glutamic acid at position 700 of the protein (K700E). However, the molecular consequences of the mutations are largely unknown. Results: To start exploring this question, we sequenced the transcriptomes of six samples: four samples of CLL tumour cells, of which two contained the K700E mutation in SF3B1, and CD19 positive cells from two healthy donors. We identified 41 genes that showed differential usage of exons statistically associated with the mutated status of SF3B1 (false discovery rate of 10%). These genes were enriched in pathways related to interferon signaling and mRNA splicing. Among these genes, we found UQCC and RPL31 ; notably, a similar effect on these genes was described in a previously published study of uveal melanoma. In addition, while this manuscript was under revision, another study independently reported the common splicing signature of the gene UQCC in different tumour types with mutations in SF3B1. Conclusions: Our results suggest common effects of isoform deregulation in the genes UQCC and RPL31 upon mutations in SF3B1. Additionally, our data provide a candidate list of potential isoform consequences of the SF3B1 (K700E) mutation in CLL, some of which might contribute to the tumourigenesis. Validation studies on larger cohorts and model systems are required to extend these findings.', u'Background\nAs one of the genetic mechanisms for adaptive immunity, V(D)J recombination generates an enormous repertoire of T-cell receptors (TCRs). With the development of high-throughput sequencing techniques, systematic exploration of V(D)J recombination becomes possible. Multiplex PCR method has been previously developed to assay immune repertoire, however the usage of primer pools has inherent bias in target amplification. In our study, we developed a ligation-anchored PCR method to unbiasedly amplify the repertoire. \nResults\nBy utilizing a universal primer paired with a single primer targeting the conserved constant region, we amplified TCR-beta (TRB) variable regions from total RNA extracted from blood. Next-generation sequencing libraries were then prepared for Illumina HiSeq 2500 sequencer, which provided 151 bp read length to cover the entire V(D)J recombination region. We evaluated this approach on blood samples from patients with malignant and benign meningiomas. Mapping of sequencing data showed 64% to 91% of mapped TCRV-containing reads belong to TRB subtype. An increased usage of TRBV29-1 was observed in malignant meningiomas. Also distinct signatures were identified from CDR3 sequence logos, with predominant subset as 42 nt for benign and 45 nt for malignant samples, respectively.\nConclusions\nIn summary, we report an integrative approach to monitor immune repertoire in a systematic manner.', u'The ecosystem service concept is at the interface of ecology, economics and politcs, with scientific results rapidly translated into management or political action. This emphasizes the importance of reliable recommendations provided by scientist. We propose to use evidence-based practice in ecosystem service science in order to evaluate and improve the reliability of scientific statements. For this purpose, we introduce a level-of-evidence scale ranking study designs (e.g. review, case-control, descriptive) in combination with a study quality checklist. For illustration, the concept was directly applied to 12 case studies. We also review criticisms levered against evidence-based practice and how it applies to ecosystem services science. We further discuss who should use the evidence-based concept and suggest important next steps, with a focus on the development of guidelines for methods used in ecosystem service assessments.', u'Mycoplasmas are notorious contaminants of cell culture and can have profound effects on host cell biology by depriving cells of nutrients and inducing global changes in gene expression. Because they are small, they can escape filtration in culture media.   Because they lack cell walls, they are resistant to commonly used antibiotics.  Over the last two decades, sentinel testing has revealed wide-ranging contamination rates in mammalian culture.  To obtain an unbiased assessment from hundreds of labs, we analyzed sequence data from 9395 rodent and primate samples from 884 series (or projects) in the NCBI Sequence Read Archive.  We found 11% of these series were contaminated (defined as \u2265 100 reads/million mapping to mycoplasma in one or more samples). Ninety percent of mycoplasma-mapped reads aligned to ribosomal RNA. Interestingly, series using poly(A)-selection, which should bias against mycoplasma detection, had comparable contamination rates as non-poly(A)-selected series.  We also examined the relationship between mycoplasma contamination and host gene expression in a single cell RNA-seq dataset and found 61 host genes (P < 0.001) were significantly associated with mycoplasma-mapped read counts. Lastly, to estimate the potential economic cost of this widespread contamination, we queried NIH RePORTER to find grants with the terms ?cell culture? or ?cell lines?.  Funding for these totaled over $3 billion, suggesting hundreds of millions of dollars in research are potentially affected. In all, this study suggests mycoplasma contamination is still prevalent today and poses substantial risk to research quality, with considerable financial consequences.', u'1.\tPolicy-makers increasingly demand robust measures of biodiversity change over short time periods. Long-term monitoring schemes provide high-quality data, often on an annual basis, but are taxonomically and geographically restricted. By contrast, opportunistic biological records are relatively unstructured but vast in quantity. Recently, these data have been applied to increasingly elaborate science and policy questions, using a range of methods. At present we lack a firm understanding of which methods, if any, are capable of delivering unbiased trend estimates on policy-relevant timescales.\n2.\tWe identified a set of candidate methods that employ either selection criteria or correction factors to deal with variation in recorder activity. We designed a computer simulation to compare the statistical properties of these methods under a suite of realistic data collection scenarios. We measured the Type I error rates of each method-scenario combination, as well as the power to detect genuine trends.\n3.\tWe found that simple methods produce biased trend estimates, and/or had low power. Most methods are robust to variation in sampling effort, but biases in spatial coverage, sampling effort per visit, and detectability, as well as turnover in community composition all induced some methods to fail. No method was robust to all forms of variation in recorder activity.\n4.\tWe warn against the use of simple methods. We identify three methods with complementary strengths and weaknesses that are useful for estimating timely trends. Sophisticated correction factor methods, including Occupancy and Frescalo, offer the greatest potential in the long-term. Methods based solely on selection criteria are inherently limited, but a combination or ensemble of approaches may be required to generate trends that are both robust and powerful. Small amounts of information about sampling intensity, captured at the point of data collection, would greatly enhance the utility of opportunistic data and make future trend estimates more reliable', u"Advances in high-throughput, single cell gene expression are allowing interrogation of cell heterogeneity. However, there is concern that the cell cycle phase of a cell might bias characterizations of gene expression at the single-cell level. We assess the effect of cell cycle phase on gene expression in single cells by measuring 333 genes in 930 cells across three phases and three cell lines. We determine each cell's phase non-invasively without chemical arrest and use it as a covariate in tests of differential expression. We observe bi-modal gene expression, a previously-described phenomenon, wherein the expression of otherwise abundant genes is either strongly positive, or undetectable within individual cells. This bi-modality is likely both biologically and technically driven. Irrespective of its source, we show that it should be modeled to draw accurate inferences from single cell expression experiments.  To this end, we propose a semi-continuous modeling framework based on the generalized linear model, and use it to characterize genes with consistent cell cycle effects across three cell lines. Our new computational framework improves the detection of previously characterized cell-cycle genes compared to approaches that do not account for the bi-modality of single-cell data. We use our semi-continuous modelling framework to estimate single cell gene co-expression networks.  These networks suggest that in addition to having phase-dependent shifts in expression (when averaged over many cells), some, but not all, canonical cell cycle genes tend to be co-expressed in groups in single cells.  We estimate the amount of single cell expression variability attributable to the cell cycle.  We find that the cell cycle explains only 5%-17% of expression variability, suggesting that the cell cycle will not tend to be a large nuisance factor in analysis of the single cell transcriptome.", u'Short Tandem Repeats are among the most polymorphic loci in the human genome. These loci play a role in the etiology of a range of genetic diseases and have been frequently utilized in forensics, population genetics, and genetic genealogy. Despite this plethora of applications, little is known about the variation of most STRs in the human population. Here, we report the largest-scale analysis of human STR variation to date. We collected information for nearly 700,000 STR loci across over 1,000 individuals in phase 1 of the 1000 Genomes Project. This process nearly saturated common STR variations. After employing a series of quality controls, we utilize this call set to analyze determinants of STR variation, assess the human reference genome?s representation of STR alleles, find STR loci with common loss-of-function alleles, and obtain initial estimates of the linkage disequilibrium between STRs and common SNPs. Overall, these analyses further elucidate the scale of genetic variation beyond classical point mutations. The resource is publicly available at http://strcat.teamerlich.org/ both in raw format and via a graphical interface.', u'Symbionts that distort their host?s sex ratio by favouring the production and survival of females are common in arthropods. Their presence produces intense Fisherian selection to return the sex ratio to parity, typified by the rapid spread of host ?suppressor? loci that restore male survival/development. In this study, we investigated the genomic impact of a selective event of this kind in the butterfly Hypolimnas bolina. Through linkage mapping we first identified a genomic region that was necessary for males to survive Wolbachia-induced killing. We then investigated the genomic impact of the rapid spread of suppression that converted the Samoan population of this butterfly from a 100:1 female-biased sex ratio in 2001, to a 1:1 sex ratio by 2006. Models of this process revealed the potential for a chromosome-wide selective sweep. To measure the impact directly, the pattern of genetic variation before and after the episode of selection was compared. Significant changes in allele frequencies were observed over a 25cM region surrounding the suppressor locus, alongside generation of linkage disequilibrium. The presence of novel allelic variants in 2006 suggests that the suppressor was introduced via immigration rather than through de novo mutation. In addition, further sampling in 2010 indicated that many of the introduced variants were lost or had reduced in frequency since 2006. We hypothesise that this loss may have resulted from a period of purifying selection - removing deleterious material that introgressed during the initial sweep. Our observations of the impact of suppression of sex ratio distorting activity reveal an extraordinarily wide genomic imprint, reflecting its status as one of the strongest selective forces in nature.', u'The adaptive immune system uses V genes for antigen recognition. The evolutionary diversification and selection processes within and across species and orders are poorly understood.  Here, we studied the amino acid (AA) sequences obtained of translated in-frame V exons of immunoglobulins (IG) and T cell receptors (TR) from 16 primate species whose genomes have been sequenced.  Multi-species comparative analysis supports  the hypothesis that V genes in the IG loci undergo birth/death processes, thereby permitting rapid adaptability over evolutionary time.  We also show that multiple cladistic groupings exist in the TRA (35 clades) and TRB (25 clades)  V gene loci and that each primate species typically contributes at least one V gene to each of these clade.   The results demonstrate that IG V genes and TR V genes have quite different evolutionary pathways; multiple duplications can explain the IG loci results, while co-evolutionary pressures  can explain  the phylogenetic results, as seen in genes of the TR loci.  We describe how each of the 35 V genes clades of the TRA locus and 25 clades of the TRB locus must have specific and necessary roles for the viability of the species.', u'In humans and many other species, while much is known about the extent and structure of genetic variation, such information is typically not used in assembling novel genomes.  Rather, a single reference is used against which to map reads, which can lead to poor characterisation of regions of high sequence or structural diversity.  Here, we introduce a population reference graph, which combines multiple reference sequences as well as catalogues of SNPs and short indels.  The genomes of novel samples are reconstructed as paths through the graph using an efficient hidden Markov Model, allowing for recombination between different haplotypes and variants.  By applying the method to the 4.5Mb extended MHC region on chromosome 6, combining eight assembled haplotypes, sequences of known classical HLA alleles and 87,640 SNP variants from the 1000 Genomes Project, we demonstrate, using simulations, SNP genotyping, short-read and long-read data, how the method improves the accuracy of genome inference.  Moreover, the analysis reveals regions where the current set of reference sequences is substantially incomplete, particularly within the Class II region, indicating the need for continued development of reference-quality genome sequences.', u'The host immunological pathways are re-organized to get a clear picture. There are four acute immune responses: TH1/TH2/TH22/TH\u03b1\u03b2 which are corresponding to four chronic immune responses: THfh/TH9/TH17/TH3. Then, the four branches of immune reactions can link to four types of hypersensitivities or allergies. Another inhibitory pathway Treg secreting TGF beta is the key player to shift the above acute immune responses to chronic immune responses for generating milder cytokines and other immune mediators to avoid severe destruction of organ during chronic and large scale of pathogen infection of tissue-organ. This 4x2+1 is the new diagram of host immunological pathways.', u'Cancer genomics has been instrumental to determine the genetic alterations that are predictive of various tumor conditions. However, the majority of these alterations occur at low frequencies, motivating the need to expand the catalogue of cancer signatures. Alternative pre-mRNA splicing alterations, which bear major importance for the understanding of cancer, have not been exhaustively studied yet in the context of recent cancer genome projects. In this article we analyze RNA sequencing data for more than 4000 samples from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) project, including paired normal samples, to detect recurrent alternative splicing isoform switches in 9 different cancer types. We first investigate whether alternative splicing isoform changes are predictive of tumors by applying a rank-based algorithm based on the reversal of the relative expression of transcript isoforms. We find that consistent alternative splicing isoform changes can separate with high accuracy tumor and normal samples, as well as some cancer subtypes. We then searched for those changes that occur in the most abundant isoform, i.e isoform switches, and are therefore more likely to have a functional impact. In total we detected 244 isoform switches, which are associated to functional pathways that are frequently altered in cancer and also separate tumor and normal samples accurately. We further assessed whether these isoform changes are associated to somatic mutations. Surprisingly, only a few cases appear to have association, including the putative tumor suppressor FBLN2 and the tumor driver MYH11, which show association of an isoform switch to mutations and indels on the alternatively spliced exon. However, the number of observed mutations is in general not sufficient to explain the frequency of the found isoform switches, suggesting that recurrent isoform switching in cancer is mostly independent of somatic mutations. In summary, we present an effective approach to detect novel alternative splicing signatures that are predictive of tumors. Moreover, the same methodology has led to uncover recurrent isoform switches in tumors, which may provide novel prognostic and therapeutic targets. \nSoftware and data are available at: https://bitbucket.org/regulatorygenomicsupf/iso-ktsp and http://dx.doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.1061917', u'The idea in molecular docking is to design pharmaceuticals computationally by identifying potential drug candidates targeted against proteins. The candidates can be found using a docking algorithm that tries to identify the bound conformation of a small molecule ligand to a macromolecular target at its active site, which is the region of an enzyme where natural substrate binds. Mathematically, molecular docking can be formulated as an optimization problem in which the objective is to minimize the intermolecular bound conformational energy of two interacting molecules. In this brief survey, after a concise introduction on nature inspired computing, the application of bio inspired optimization algorithms in molecular docking has been studied.', u"Parkinson's disease is associated with mitochondrial decline in dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra. One of the genes, DJ- 1/PARK7, linked with the onset of Parkinson\u2019s disease, belongs to a novel glyoxalase family and influences mitochondrial activity. It has been assumed that glyoxalases fulfill this task by detoxifying aggressive aldehyde by-products of metabolism. Here we show that supplying either D-lactate or glycolate, products of DJ-1, rescues the requirement for the enzyme in maintenance of mitochondrial potential. We further show that glycolic acid and D-lactic acid can elevate lowered mitochondrial membrane potential caused by silencing PINK-1, another Parkinson's related gene, as well as by paraquat, an environmental toxin known to be linked with Parkinson's disease. We propose that DJ-1 and consequently its products are components of a novel pathway that stabilizes mitochondria during cellular stress. We go on to show that survival of cultured mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons, defective in Parkinson's disease, is enhanced by glycolate and D-lactate. Because glycolic and D-lactic acids occur naturally, they are therefore a potential therapeutic route for treatment or prevention of Parkinson's disease.", u'Sperm cooperation has evolved in a variety of taxa and is often considered a response to sperm competition, yet the benefit of this form of collective movement remains unclear. Here we use fine-scale imaging and a minimal mathematical model to study sperm aggregation in the rodent genus Peromyscus. We demonstrate that as the number of sperm cells in an aggregate increase, the group moves with more persistent linearity but without increasing speed; this benefit, however, is offset in larger aggregates as the geometry of the group forces sperm to swim against one another. The result is a non-monotonic relationship between aggregate size and average velocity with both a theoretically predicted and empirically observed optimum of 6-7 sperm/aggregate. To understand the role of sexual selection in driving these sperm group dynamics, we compared two sister-species with divergent mating systems and find that sperm of P. maniculatus (highly promiscuous), which have evolved under intense competition, form optimal-sized aggregates more often than sperm of P. polionotus (strictly monogamous), which lack competition. Our combined mathematical and experimental study of coordinated sperm movement reveals the importance of geometry, motion and group size on sperm velocity and suggests how these physical variables interact with evolutionary selective pressures to regulate cooperation in competitive environments.', u'An accurate and complete reference human genome sequence assembly is essential for accurately interpreting individual genomes and associating sequence variation with disease phenotypes. While the current reference genome sequence is of very high quality, gaps and misassemblies remain due to biological and technical complexities. Large repetitive sequences and complex allelic diversity are the two main drivers of assembly error. Although increasing the length of sequence reads and library fragments can help overcome these problems, even the longest available reads do not resolve all regions of the human genome. In order to overcome the issue of allelic diversity, we used genomic DNA from an essentially haploid hydatidiform mole, CHM1. We utilized several resources from this DNA including a set of end-sequenced and indexed BAC clones, an optical map, and 100X whole genome shotgun (WGS) sequence coverage using short (Illumina) read pairs. We used the WGS sequence and the GRCh37 reference assembly to create a sequence assembly of the CHM1 genome. We subsequently incorporated 382 finished CHORI-17 BAC clone sequences to generate a second draft assembly, CHM1_1.1 (NCBI AssemblyDB GCA_000306695.2). Analysis of gene and repeat content show this assembly to be of excellent quality and contiguity, and comparisons to ClinVar and the NHGRI GWAS catalog show that the CHM1 genome does not harbor an excess of deleterious alleles. However, comparison to assembly-independent resources, such as BAC clone end sequences and long reads generated by a different sequencing technology (PacBio), indicate misassembled regions.  The great majority of these regions is enriched for structural variation and segmental duplication, and can be resolved in the future by sequencing BAC clone tiling paths. This publicly available first generation assembly will be integrated into the Genome Reference Consortium (GRC) curation framework for further improvement, with the ultimate goal being a completely finished gap-free assembly.', u'Germline variation at immunoglobulin gene (IG) loci is critical for pathogen-mediated immunity, but establishing complete reference sequences in these regions is problematic because of segmental duplications and somatically rearranged source DNA. We sequenced BAC clones from the essentially haploid hydatidiform mole, CHM1, across the light chain IG loci, kappa (IGK) and lambda (IGL), creating single haplotype representations of these regions. The IGL haplotype is 1.25Mb of contiguous sequence with four novel V gene and one novel C gene alleles and an 11.9kbp insertion. The IGK haplotype consists of two 644kbp proximal and 466kbp distal contigs separated by a gap also present in the reference genome sequence. Our effort added an additional 49kbp of unique sequence extending into this gap. The IGK haplotype contains six novel V gene and one novel J gene alleles and a 16.7kbp region with increased sequence identity between the two IGK contigs, exhibiting signatures of interlocus gene conversion. Our data facilitated the first comparison of nucleotide diversity between the light and IG heavy (IGH) chain haplotypes within a single genome, revealing a three to six fold enrichment in the IGH locus, supporting the theory that the heavy chain may be more important in determining antigenic specificity.', u'How does the regulatory machinery of an animal cell ensure its survival during large-scale biochemical and phenotypic transitions? When a cell is strongly perturbed by an environmental stimulus, it can either die or persist with compensatory changes. But what do the dynamics of individual genes look like during this process of adaptation? In a previous technical paper, two approaches (drug treatments and polysome isolation) were used in tandem to demonstrate the effects of perturbation on cellular phenotype. In this paper, we can use these data in tandem with a discrete, first-order feedback model that incorporates leaky components to better characterize adaptive responses of mRNA regulation related to information processing in the cell. By evaluating the dynamic relationship between mRNA associated with transcription (translatome) and mRNA associated with the polysome (transcriptome) at multiple timepoints, hypothetical conditions for decay and aggregation are found and discussed. Our feedback model allows for the approximation of fluctuations and other aspects of cellular information processing, in addition to the derivation of three information processing principles. These results will lead us to a better understanding of how mRNA provides variable information over time to the complex intracellular environment, particularly in the context of large-scale phenotypic change.', u'Inbred C57BL/6J mice have been used to study diet-induced obesity and the detrimental physiological effects associated with it. Little is understood about predictive factors that predispose an animal to weight gain. To address this, mice were fed a high fat diet, control diet or normal chow diet. Several measurements including pre-diet serum hormone levels and pre-diet body weight were analyzed, but these had limited predictive value regarding weight gain. However, baseline measurements of weight loss in response to food deprivation showed a strong negative correlation with high fat diet-induced weight gain. These data suggest that fasting-induced weight loss in adolescent mice is a useful predictor of diet-induced weight gain.', u'Embryonic Stem cells derived from the epiblast tissue of the mammalian blastocyst retain the capability to differentiate into any adult cell type and are able to self-renew indefinitely under appropriate culture conditions. Despite the large amount of knowledge that we have accumulated to date about the regulation and control of self-renewal, efficient directed differentiation into specific tissues remains elusive. In this work, we have analysed in a systematic manner the interaction between the dynamics of loss of pluripotency and Activin/Nodal, BMP4 and Wnt signalling in fate assignment during the early stages of differentiation of mouse ES cells in culture. During the initial period of differentiation, cells exit from pluripotency and enter an Epi-like state. Following this transient stage, and under the influence of Activin/Nodal and BMP signalling, cells face a fate choice between differentiating into neuroectoderm and contributing to Primitive Streak fates. We find that Wnt signalling does not suppress neural development as previously thought and that it aids both fates in a context dependent manner. Our results suggest that as cells exit pluripotency they are endowed with a primary neuroectodermal fate and that the potency to become endomesodermal rises with time. We suggest that this situation translates into a ?race for fates? in which the neuroectodermal fate has an advantage.', u"Darwin's dictum on false facts and false views points the way to opening the road to truth via cogent criticism of the published record. Here I discuss a case in which a truncated dataset (false facts) is used for coalescent analysis of historical demography that\nreaches a foregone conclusion of a bottleneck of numbers (false views).", u'Ecological studies routinely show genotype-genotype interactions between insects and their parasites. The mechanisms behind these interactions are not clearly understood. Using the bumblebee Bombus terrestris / trypanosome Crithidia bombi model system, we have carried out a transcriptome-wide analysis of gene expression and alternative splicing in bees during C. bombi infection.  We have performed four analyses, 1) comparing gene expression in infected and non-infected bees 24 hours after infection by Crithidia bombi, 2) comparing expression at 24 and 48 hours after C.bombi infection, 3) searching for differential gene expression associated with the host-parasite genotype-genotype interaction at 24 hours after infection and 4) searching for alternative splicing associated with the host-parasite genotype-genotype interaction at 24 hours post infection. We found a large number of genes differentially regulated related to numerous canonical immune pathways. These genes include receptors, signaling pathways and effectors. We discovered a possible interaction between the peritrophic membrane and the insect immune system in defense against Crithidia. Most interestingly we found differential expression and alternative splicing of Dscam related transcripts and a novel immunoglobulin related gene Twitchin depends on the genotype-genotype interactions of the given bumblebee colony and Crithidia strain.', u'With the recent increase in study sample sizes in human genetics, there has been growing interest in inferring historical population demography from genomic variation data.   Here, we present an efficient inference method that can scale up to very large samples, with tens or hundreds of thousands of individuals.  Specifically, by utilizing analytic results on the expected frequency spectrum under the coalescent and by leveraging the technique of automatic differentiation, which allows us to compute gradients exactly, we develop a very efficient algorithm to infer piecewise-exponential models of the historical effective population size from the distribution of sample allele frequencies.  Our method is orders of magnitude faster than previous demographic inference methods based on the frequency spectrum.  In addition to inferring demography, our method can also accurately estimate locus-specific mutation rates.   We perform extensive validation of our method on simulated data and show that it can accurately infer multiple recent epochs of rapid exponential growth, a signal which is difficult to pick up with small sample sizes.  Lastly, we apply our method to analyze data from recent sequencing studies, including a large-sample exome-sequencing dataset of tens of thousands of individuals assayed at a few hundred genic regions.', u'Genomic time series data generated by evolve-and-resequence (E&R) experiments offer a powerful window into the mechanisms that drive evolution. However, standard population genetic inference procedures do not account for sampling serially over time, and new methods are needed to make full use of modern experimental evolution data. To address this problem, we develop a Gaussian process approximation to the multi-locus Wright-Fisher process with selection over a time course of tens of generations. The mean and covariance structure of the Gaussian process are obtained by computing the corresponding moments in discrete-time Wright-Fisher models conditioned on the presence of a linked selected site. This enables our method to account for the effects of linkage and selection, both along the genome and across sampled time points, in an approximate but principled manner. Using simulated data, we demonstrate the power of our method to correctly detect, locate and estimate the fitness of a selected allele from among several linked sites. We also study how this power changes for different values of selection strength, initial haplotypic diversity, population size, sampling frequency, experimental duration, number of replicates, and sequencing coverage depth. In addition to providing quantitative estimates of selection parameters from experimental evolution data, our model can be used by practitioners to design E&R experiments with requisite power. Finally, we explore how our likelihood-based approach can be used to infer other model parameters, including effective population size and recombination rate, and discuss extensions to more complex models.', u'The gradual loss of diversity associated with range expansions is a well known pattern observed in many species, and can be explained with a serial founder model. We show that under a branching process approximation, this loss in diversity is due to the difference in offspring variance between individuals at and away from the expansion front, which allows us to measure the strength of the founder effect, dependant on an effective founder size. We demonstrate that the predictions from the branching process model fit very well with Wright-Fisher forward simulations and backwards simulations under a modified Kingman coalescent, and further show that estimates of the effective founder size are robust to possibly confounding factors such as migration between subpopulations. We apply our method to a data set of Arabidopsis thaliana, where we find that the founder effect is about three times stronger in the Americas than in Europe, which may be attributed to the more recent, faster expansion.', u'Genome-wide, targeted loss-of-function pooled screens using the CRISPR (clustered regularly interspaced short palindrome repeats)?associated nuclease Cas9 in human and mouse cells provide an alternative screening system to RNA interference (RNAi). Initial lentiviral delivery systems for CRISPR screening had low viral titer or required a cell line already expressing Cas9, limiting the range of biological systems amenable to screening. In this work, we present 1- and 2-vector lentiCRISPR systems capable of producing higher viral titers and, in these vectors, new human and mouse libraries for genome-scale CRISPR knock-out (GeCKO) screening.', u'Tumors often contain multiple, genetically distinct subpopulations of cancerous cells. These so-called subclonal populations are defined by distinct somatic mutations that include point mutations such as single nucleotide variants and small indels ? collectively called simple somatic mutations (SSMs) ? as well as larger structural changes that result in copy number variations (CNVs). In some cases, the genotype and prevalence of these subpopulations can be reconstructed based on high-throughput, short-read sequencing of DNA in one or more tumor samples. To date, no automated SSM-based subclonal reconstructions have been attempted on WGS data; and CNV-based reconstructions are limited to tumors with two or fewer cancerous subclonal populations and with a small number of CNVs.\n\nWe describe a new automated method, PhyloWGS, that can be applied to WGS data from one or more tumor samples to perform subclonal reconstruction based on both CNVs and SSMs. PhyloWGS successfully recovers the composition of mixtures of a highly rearranged TGCA cell line when a CNV-based method fails. On WGS data with average read depth of 40 from five time-series chronic lymphocytic leukemia samples, PhyloWGS recovers the same tumor phylogeny previously reconstructed using deep targeted resequencing.  To further explore the limits of WGS-based subclonal reconstruction, we ran PhyloWGS on simulated data: PhyloWGS can reliably reconstruct as many as three cancerous subpopulations based on 30-50x coverage WGS data from a single tumor sample with 10?s to 1000?s of SSMs per subpopulation. At least five cancerous subpopulations can be reconstructed if provided with read depths of 200 or more. \n\nPhyloWGS is the first automated method that can be applied to WGS tumor data  that accurately reconstructs the frequency, genotype and phylogeny of the subclonal populations based on both SSMs and CNVs. It also provides a principled, automated approach to combining overlapping SSM and CNV data. By demonstrating the utility of PhyloWGS on medium depth WGS data, including from examples with highly rearranged chromosomes, we have greatly expanded the range of tumors for which subclonal reconstruction is possible.', u'The causes of individual variability in the length of time between human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and the development of AIDS are incompletely understood. Here, we present a novel hypothesis: that the relative magnitude of responses to HIV mediated by CD4+ T regulatory (Treg) cells vs. CD4+ T effector (Teff) cells is a critical determinant of variability in AIDS progression rates. We use a simple mathematical model to show that this hypothesis can plausibly explain three qualitatively different outcomes of HIV infection ? fast or slow progression to AIDS, and long-term non-progression to AIDS ? based on individual variation in underlying T-cell response. This hypothesis also provides a unifying explanation for various other empirical observations, suggesting in particular that both aging and certain dual infections increase the rate of AIDS progression because they increase the strength of the Treg cell response. We discuss potential therapeutic implications of our results.', u'In order to take full advantage of next generation genomics data, I need informatics methods to be based on agreed upon formally specified standards that can be implemented easily in a uniform fashion without ambiguity. These standards should be encoded as logical formulae, so that provably correct and efficient decision procedures can be used for query answering and validation.\nIn this paper I present the core of such a standard for sequence data: a collection of definitions of relations that hold between genomic intervals, and an alegbra for performing operations upon these intervals. I show how these relations can be used to extend formalize concepts in the Sequence Ontology (SO).', u'Connecting genetic variation to trait variation is a grand challenge in biology. Natural populations contain a vast reservoir of fascinating and potentially useful variation, but it is unclear if the causal alleles will generally have large enough effects for us to detect. Without knowing the effect sizes or allele frequency of typical variants, it is also unclear what methods will be most successful. Here, we use a multi-parent advanced intercross population (the Drosophila Synthetic Population Resource) to map natural variation in Drosophila courtship song traits. Most additive genetic variation in this population can be explained by a modest number of highly resolved QTL. Mapped QTL are universally multiallelic, suggesting that individual genes are "hotspots" of natural variation due to a small target size for major mutations and/or filtering of variation by positive or negative selection. Using quantitative complementation in randomized genetic backgrounds, we provide evidence that one causal allele is harbored in the gene Fhos, making this one of the few genes associated with behavioral variation in any taxon.', u'Neuronal activity serves as a gateway between external stimulus from environment and the brain, often inducing gene expression changes. Alternative splicing (AS) is a widespread mechanism of increasing the number of transcripts produced from a single gene and has been shown to alter properties of neuronal genes, such as ion channels and neurotransmitter receptors. Patterns of neural tissue-specific AS have been identified, often regulated by neuron-specific splicing factors that are essential for survival, demonstrating the importance of AS in neurons. In vitro studies of neuronal activity found AS changes in response to neuronal activity in addition to transcriptional ones, raising the question of whether such changes are recapitulated in vivo on behaviorally relevant timescales. We developed a paradigm for studying physiological neuronal activity through controlled stimulation of the olfactory bulb, and performed RNA-Seq transcriptome analysis of olfactory bulbs from odor-deprived and stimulated mice. We found that physiological stimulation induces large, rapid and reproducible changes in transcription in vivo, and that the activation of a core set of activity-regulated factors is recapitulated in an in vitro model of neuronal stimulation. However, physiological activity did not induce global changes in post-transcriptional mRNA processing, such as AS or alternative cleavage and polyadenylation. In contrast, analysis of RNA-Seq from in vitro stimulation models showed rapid activity-dependent changes in both transcription and mRNA processing. Our results provide the first genome-wide look at neuronal activity-dependent mRNA processing and suggest that rapid changes in AS might not be the dominant form of transcriptome alterations that take place during olfactory rodent behavior.', u'Growth of ice on surfaces poses a challenge for both organisms and for devices that come into contact with liquids below the freezing point. Resistance of some organisms to ice formation and growth, either in subtidal environments (e.g. Antarctic anchor ice), or in environments with moisture and cold air (e.g.vplants, intertidal) begs examination of how this is accomplished.  Several factors may be important in promoting or mitigating ice formation.  As a start, here we examine the effect of surface texture alone. We tested four candidate surfaces, inspired by hard-shelled marine invertebrates and constructed using a three-dimensional printing process. We screened biological and artifical samples for ice formation and accretion in submerged conditions using previous methods, and developed a new test to examine ice formation from surface droplets as might be encountered in environments with moist, cold air. It appears surface texture plays only a small role in delaying the onset of ice formation: a stripe feature (corresponding to patterning found on valves of blue mussels, Crassostrea gigas, or on the spines of the Antarctic sea urchin Sterechinus neumayeri) slowed ice formation an average of 25% compared to a grid feature (corresponding to patterning found on sub-polar butterclams, Saxidomas nuttali). The geometric dimensions of the features have only a small (~6%) effect on ice formation. Surface texture affects ice formation, but does not explain by itself the large variation in ice formation and species-specific ice resistance observed in other work. This suggests future examination of other factors, such as material elastic properties and coatings, and their interaction with surface pattern.', u'It is now well known that unwanted noise and unmodeled artifacts such as batch effects can dramatically reduce the accuracy of statistical inference in genomic experiments. We introduced surrogate variable analysis for estimating these artifacts by (1) identifying the part of the genomic data only affected by artifacts and (2)  estimating the artifacts with principal components or singular vectors of the subset of the data matrix. The resulting estimates of artifacts can be used in subsequent analyses as adjustment factors. Here I describe an update to the sva approach that can be applied to analyze count data or FPKMs from sequencing experiments. I also describe the addition of supervised sva (ssva) for using control probes to identify the part of the genomic data only affected by artifacts. These updates are available through the surrogate variable analysis (sva) Bioconductor package.', u"The mandibular gland of Nasonia vitripennis (Hymenoptera: Pteromalidae) is visualized for the first time, using Confocal Laser Scanning Microscopy and dissection. The gland was previously hypothesized to exist, based on observations of the wasp's courtship behaviors, but its presence had never been confirmed.", u'Modification of spatial attention via reinforcement learning (Lee & Shomstein, 2013) requires the integration of reward, attention, and executive processes. Corticostriatal pathways are an ideal neural substrate for this integration because these projections exhibit a globally parallel (Alexander, De Long, and Strick, 1985), but locally overlapping (Haber, 2003), topographical organization. Here, we explored whether there are unique striatal regions that exhibit convergent anatomical connections from orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), and posterior parietal cortex. Deterministic fiber tractography on diffusion spectrum imaging data from neurologically healthy adults (N=60) was used to map fronto- and parieto-striatal projections. In general, projections from cortex were organized in a rostral-caudal gradient along the striatal nuclei; however, we also identified two bilateral convergence zones?one in the caudate nucleus and another in the putamen?that consisted of voxels with projections from OFC, DLPFC, and parietal regions. The distributed cortical connectivity of these striatal convergence zones was confirmed with follow-up functional connectivity analysis from resting state fMRI data from 55 of the participants, in which a high percentage (62-80%) of structurally connected voxels also showed significant functional connectivity. These results delineate a neurologically plausible network of converging corticostriatal projections that may support the integration of reward, executive control, and spatial attention that occurs during spatial reinforcement learning.', u'Fulfilling the promise of the genetic revolution requires the analysis of large datasets containing information from thousands to millions of participants. However, sharing human genomic data requires protecting subjects from potential harm. Current models rely on de-identification techniques that treat privacy versus data utility as a zero-sum game. Instead we propose using trust-enabling techniques to create a solution where researchers and participants both win. To do so we introduce three principles that facilitate trust in genetic research and outline one possible framework built upon those principles.  Our hope is that such trust-centric frameworks provide a sustainable solution that reconciles genetic privacy with data sharing and facilitates genetic research.', u'Transmembrane \u03b2-barrels are known to play major roles in substrate transport and protein biogenesis in gram-negative bacteria, chloroplasts and mitochondria. However, the exact number of transmembrane \u03b2-barrel families is unknown and experimental structure determination is challenging.  In theory, if one knows the number of strands in the \u03b2-barrel, then the 3D structure of the barrel could be trivial, but current topology predictions do not predict accurate structures and are unable to give information beyond the \u03b2-strands in the barrel. Recent work has shown successful prediction of globular and alpha-helical membrane proteins from sequence alignments, by using high ranked evolutionary couplings between residues as distance constraints to fold extended polypeptides. However, these methods, have not addressed the calculation of precise \u03b2-sheet hydrogen bonding that defines transmembrane \u03b2-barrels, and would be required to fold these proteins successfully. Hence we developed a method (EVFold_BB) that can successfully model transmembrane \u03b2-barrels by combining evolutionary couplings together with topology predictions. EVFold_BB is validated by the accurate all-atom 3D modeling of 18 proteins, representing all known membrane \u03b2-barrel families that have sufficient sequences available. To demonstrate the potential of our approach we predict the unknown 3D structure of the LptD protein, the plausibility of its accuracy is supported by the blindly predicted benchmarks, and is consistent with experimental observations. Our approach can naturally be extended to all unknown \u03b2-barrel proteins with sufficient sequence information.', u'Key nuclear processes in eukaryotes including DNA replication or repair and gene regulation require extensive chromatin remodeling catalyzed by energy consuming enzymes. How the energetic demands of such processes are ensured in response to rapid stimuli remains unclear. We have analyzed this question in the context of the massive gene regulation changes induced by progestins in breast cancer cells and found that ATP is generated in the cell nucleus via the hydrolysis of poly-ADP-ribose to ADP-ribose. Nuclear ATP synthesis requires the combined enzymatic activities of PARP1, PARG and NUDIX5/NUDT5. Although initiated via mitochondrial derived ATP, the nuclear source of ATP is essential for hormone induced chromatin remodeling, gene regulation and cell proliferation and may also participate in DNA repair. This novel pathway reveals exciting avenues of research for drug development.', u'Synaptosomes are a popular type of isolated synaptic fraction intensively used in neuroscience and cell biology. They are prepared by layering on density gradients and thought to consist largely of axonal endings with attached postsynaptic structures (Morgan, 1976), in contrast to synaptoneurosomes (Hollingsworth et al, 1985) which are prepared by filtration and are thought to consist largely of pinched-off dendritic spines with attached presynaptic structures.  Although most studies of synaptosomes have utilized rodent or primate tissue, a score of studies have employed human samples derived from surgical specimens or postmortem brain. We recently described the isolation of synaptosomes from human postmortem prefrontal cortex to study the expression of synaptic microRNAs and other small RNAs in depression, schizophrenia and bipolar disorder (Smalheiser et al, 2014). This protocol alluded to methods and modifications that are scattered among several publications, and did not explain the reasons for the procedures chosen. Because our protocol differs from other published human synaptosome protocols in a variety of respects, we present here a detailed description of synaptosome preparation that should facilitate the use of this standardized synaptic fraction by other workers.', u'Storing, transmitting, and archiving the amount of data produced by next generation sequencing is becoming a significant computational burden. For example, large-scale RNA-seq meta-analyses may now routinely process tens of terabytes of sequence. We present here an approach to biological sequence compression that reduces the difficulty associated with managing the data produced by large-scale transcriptome sequencing. Our approach offers a new direction by sitting between pure reference-based compression and reference-free compression and combines much of the benefit of reference-based approaches with the flexibility of de novo encoding.  Our method, called path encoding, draws a connection between storing paths in de Bruijn graphs --- a common task in genome assembly --- and context-dependent arithmetic coding. Supporting this method is a system, called a bit tree, to compactly store sets of kmers that is of independent interest. Using these techniques, we are able to encode RNA-seq reads using 3% -- 11% of the space of the sequence in raw FASTA files, which is on average more than 34% smaller than recent competing approaches. We also show that even if the reference is very poorly matched to the reads that are being encoded, good compression can still be achieved.', u'Sex-biased admixture has been observed in a wide variety of admixed populations.  Genetic variation in sex chromosomes and ratios of quantities computed from sex chromosomes and autosomes have often been examined in order to infer patterns of sex-biased admixture, typically using statistical approaches that do not mechanistically model the complexity of a sex-specific history of admixture.  Here, expanding on a model of Verdu \\& Rosenberg (2011) that did not include sex specificity, we develop a model that mechanistically examines sex-specific admixture histories.  Under the model, multiple source populations contribute to an admixed population, potentially with their male and female contributions varying over time. In an admixed population descended from two source groups, we derive the moments of the distribution of the autosomal admixture fraction from a specific source population as a function of sex-specific introgression parameters and time. Considering admixture processes that are constant in time, we demonstrate that surprisingly, although the mean autosomal admixture fraction from a specific source population does not reveal a sex bias in the admixture history, the variance of autosomal admixture is informative about sex bias. Specifically, the long-term variance decreases as the sex bias from a contributing source population increases. This result can be viewed as analogous to the reduction in effective population size for populations with an unequal number of breeding males and females. Our approach can contribute to methods for inference of the history of complex sex-biased admixture processes by enabling consideration of the effect of sex-biased admixture on autosomal DNA.', u'The use of phylogenetic methods in anthropological fields such as archaeology, linguistics and stemmatology (involving what are often called ?culture data?) is based on an analogy between human cultural evolution and biological evolution. We need to understand this analogy thoroughly, including how well anthropology data fit the model of a phylogenetic tree, as used in biology. I provide a direct comparison of anthropology datasets with both phenotype and genotype datasets from biology. The anthropology datasets fit the tree model approximately as well as do the genotype data, which is detectably worse than the fit of the phenotype data. This is true for datasets with <500 parsimony-informative characters, as well as for larger datasets. This implies that cross-cultural (horizontal) processes have been important in the evolution of cultural artifacts, as well as branching historical (vertical) processes, and thus a phylogenetic network will be a more appropriate model than a phylogenetic tree.', u'The dwindling drug pipeline is driving increased interest in the use of genome datasets to inform drug treatment. In particular, networks based on transcript data and protein-protein interactions have been used to design therapies that employ drug combinations. But there has been less focus on employing human genetic interaction networks constructed from copy number alterations (CNAs). These networks can be charted with sensitivity and precision by seeking gene pairs that tend to be amplified and/or deleted in tandem, even when they are located at a distance on the genome. Our experience with radiation hybrid (RH) panels, a library of cell clones that have been used for genetic mapping, have shown this tool can pinpoint statistically significant patterns of co-inherited gene pairs. In fact, we were able to identify gene pairs specifically associated with the mechanism of cell survival at single gene resolution. The strategy of seeking correlated CNAs can also be used to map survival networks for cancer. Although the cancer networks have lower resolution, the RH network can be leveraged to provide single gene specificity in the tumor networks. In a survival network for glioblastoma possessing single gene resolution, we found that the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) oncogene interacted with 46 genes. Of these genes, ten (22%) happened to be targets for existing drugs. Here, we briefly review the previous use of molecular networks to design novel therapies. We then highlight the potential of using correlated CNAs to guide combinatorial drug treatment in common medical conditions. We focus on therapeutic opportunities in cancer, but also offer examples from autoimmune disorders and atherosclerosis.', u"Influenza is notable for its evolutionary capacity to escape immunity targeting the viral hemagglutinin. We used deep mutational scanning to examine the extent to which a high inherent mutational tolerance contributes to this antigenic evolvability. We created mutant viruses that incorporate most of the \u2248104 amino-acid mutations to hemagglutinin from  A/WSN/1933 (H1N1) influenza. After passaging these viruses in tissue culture to select for functional variants, we used deep sequencing to quantify mutation frequencies before and after selection. These data enable us to infer the preference for each amino acid at each site in hemagglutinin. These inferences are consistent with existing knowledge about the protein's structure and function, and can be used to create a model that describes hemagglutinin's evolution far better than existing phylogenetic models. We show that hemagglutinin has a high inherent tolerance for mutations at antigenic sites, suggesting that this is one factor contributing to influenza's antigenic evolution.", u'Building better models of cellular pathways is one of the major challenges of systems biology and functional genomics. There is a need for methods to build on established expert knowledge and reconcile it with results of high-throughput studies. Moreover, the available data sources are heterogeneous and need to be combined in a way specific for the part of the pathway in which they are most informative. Here, we present a compartment specific strategy to integrate edge, node and path data for the refinement of a network hypothesis. Specifically, we use a local-move Gibbs sampler for refining pathway hypotheses from a compendium of heterogeneous data sources, including novel methodology for integrating protein attributes. We demonstrate the utility of this approach in a case study of the pheromone response MAPK pathway in the yeast S. cerevisiae.', u'In this study  Markov chain models of gene regulatory networks (GRN) are developed. These  models gives  the ability to apply the well known theory and tools of Markov chains to GRN analysis. We introduce a new kind of the finite graph of the interactions called the combinatorial net that formally represent a GRN and the transition graphs  constructed  from interaction graphs. System dynamics are defined as a random walk on the transition graph that is some Markovian chain. A novel concurrent updating scheme (evolution rule) is developed to determine transitions in a transition graph. Our scheme is based on the  firing of a random set  of non-steady state vertices of a combinatorial net. We demonstrate that this novel scheme gives an advance in the modeling of the asynchronicity. Also we proof the theorem that the combinatorial nets with this updating scheme can asynchronously compute a maximal independent sets of graphs. As proof of concept, we present here a number of simple combinatorial models: a discrete model of auto-repression, a bi-stable switch, the Elowitz repressilator,  a self-activation and show  that this models exhibit well known properties.', u'Cancer progression is caused by the sequential accumulation of mutations,\nbut not all orders of accumulation of mutations are equally likely. When\nthe fixation of some mutations depends on the presence of previous ones,\nidentifying restrictions in the order of accumulation of mutations can\nlead to the discovery of therapeutic targets and diagnostic markers.\nUsing simulated data sets, I conducted a comprehensive comparison of the\nperformance of all available methods to identify these restrictions from\ncross-sectional data.  In contrast to previous work, I embedded\nrestrictions within evolutionary models of tumor progression that included\npassengers (mutations not responsible for the development of cancer, known\nto be very common). This allowed me to asses the effects of having to\nfilter out passengers, of sampling schemes, and of deviations from order\nrestrictions.  Poor choices of method, filtering, and sampling lead to\nlarge errors in all performance metrics. Having to filter passengers lead\nto decreased performance, especially because true restrictions were\nmissed. Overall, the best method for identifying order restrictions were\nOncogenetic Trees, a fast and easy to use method that, although unable to\nrecover dependencies of mutations on more than one mutation, showed good\nperformance in most scenarios, superior to Conjunctive Bayesian Networks\nand Progression Networks.  Single cell sampling provided no advantage, but\nsampling in the final stages of the disease vs.\\ sampling at different\nstages had severe effects. Evolutionary model and deviations from order\nrestrictions had major, and sometimes counterintuitive, interactions with\nother factors that affected performance.  This paper provides practical\nrecommendations for using these methods with experimental data. Moreover,\nit shows that it is both possible and necessary to embed assumptions about\norder restrictions and the nature of driver status within evolutionary\nmodels of cancer progression to evaluate the performance of inferential\napproaches.', u'What does it mean when we say a cell?s biochemistry is regulated during changes to the phenotype? While there are a plethora of potential mechanisms and contributions to the final outcome, a more tractable approach is to examine the dynamics of mRNA. This way, we can assess the contributions of both known and unknown decay and aggregation processes for maintaining levels of gene product on a gene-by-gene basis. In this extended protocol, drug treatments that target specific cellular functions (termed mechanism disruption) can be used in tandem with mRNA extraction from the polysome to look at the dynamics of mRNA levels associated with transcription and translation at multiple stages during a physiological perturbation. This is accomplished through validating the polysome isolation method in human cells and comparing fractions of mRNA for each experimental treatment at multiple points in time. First, three different drug treatments corresponding to the arrest of various cellular processes are administered to populations of human cells. For each treatment, the transcriptome and translatome are compared directly at different time points by assaying both cell-type specific and non-specific genes. There are two findings of note. First, extraction of mRNA from the polysome and comparison with the transcriptome can yield interesting information about the regulation of cellular mRNA during a functional challenge to the cell. In addition, the conventional application of such drugs to assess mRNA decay is an incomplete picture of how severely challenged or senescent cells regulate mRNA in response. This extended protocol demonstrates how the gene- and process-variable degradation of mRNA might ultimately require investigations into the course-grained dynamics of cellular mRNA, from transcription to ribosome.', u'While reducing the burden of brain disorders remains a top priority of organizations like the World Health Organization and National Institutes of Health (BRAIN, 2013), the development of novel, safe and effective treatments for brain disorders has been slow. In this paper, we describe the state of the science for an emerging technology, real time functional magnetic resonance imaging (rtfMRI) neurofeedback, in clinical neurotherapeutics. We review the scientific potential of rtfMRI and outline research strategies to optimize the development and application of rtfMRI neurofeedback as a next generation therapeutic tool. We propose that rtfMRI can be used to address a broad range of clinical problems by improving our understanding of brain-behavior relationships in order to develop more specific and effective interventions for individuals with brain disorders. We focus on the use of rtfMRI neurofeedback as a clinical neurotherapeutic tool to drive plasticity in brain function, cognition, and behavior. Our overall goal is for rtfMRI to advance personalized assessment and intervention approaches to enhance resilience and reduce morbidity by correcting maladaptive patterns of brain function in those with brain disorders.', u'The stereotyped structure of mammalian and invertebrate brains is a crucial determinant of their circuit organization. Thus large scale efforts to map circuit organization using 3D image data are underway in a number of model systems, including flies and mice. Many of these studies use registration of sample images to a standard template brain to enable co-visualization and spatial querying. However, studies often use distinct template brains, resulting in large islands of data which cannot be directly compared. To enable this comparison, we have constructed bridging registrations between template brains accounting for the vast majority of Drosophila melanogaster 3D neuroanatomical data. Furthermore, we solve the related problem of mapping data between the left and right brain hemispheres via the construction of mirroring registrations. Finally, we extend our approach across species to demonstrate its potential use in evolutionary studies of neural circuit structure and provide bridging registrations that link a new set of template brains generated for four Drosophila species that are divergent over 40 million years of evolution.\n\nWe describe our strategy, document the freely available anatomical data and open source com- puter tools that we have generated and provide numerous examples of their use. This effort has unified data from over 30,000 publicly available images, with resources including the 3D atlas embodying the new standard Drosophila anatomical nomenclature and the largest single neuron databank yet available in any species. Over 20,000 registered images have been contributed to the Virtual Fly Brain project and can be viewed online at www.virtualflybrain.org.', u'Background: Next generation sequencing (NGS) is a widely used technology in both basic research and clinical settings and it will continue to have a major impact on biomedical sciences. However, the use of incorrect normalization methods can lead to systematic biases and spurious results, making the selection of an appropriate normalization strategy a crucial and often overlooked part of NGS analysis. \nResults: We present a basic introduction to the currently available normalization methods for differential expression and ChIP-seq applications, along with best use recommendations for different experimental techniques and datasets. \nWe demonstrate that the choice of normalization technique can have a significant impact on the number of genes called as differentially expressed in an RNA-seq experiment or peaks called in a ChIP-seq experiment. \nConclusions: The choice of the most adequate normalization method depends on both the distribution of signal in the dataset and the intended downstream applications. Depending on the design and purpose of the study, appropriate bias correction should also be considered.', u'Quantifying the proportion of polymorphic mutations that are deleterious or neutral is of fundamental importance to our understanding of evolution, disease genetics and the maintenance of variation genome-wide. Here, we develop an approximation to the distribution of fitness effects (DFE) of segregating single-nucleotide mutations in humans. Unlike previous methods, we do not assume that synonymous mutations are neutral or not strongly selected, and we do not rely on fitting the DFE of all new nonsynonymous mutations to a single probability distribution, which is poorly motivated on a biological level. We rely on a previously developed method that utilizes a variety of published annotations (including conservation scores, protein deleteriousness estimates and regulatory data) to score all mutations in the human genome based on how likely they are to be affected by negative selection, controlling for mutation rate. We map this score to a scale of fitness coefficients via maximum likelihood using diffusion theory and a Poisson random field model on SNP data. Our method serves to approximate the deleterious DFE of mutations that are segregating, regardless of their genomic consequence. We can then compare the proportion of mutations that are negatively selected or neutral across various categories, including different types of regulatory sites. We observe that the distribution of intergenic polymorphisms is highly peaked at neutrality, while the distribution of nonsynonymous polymorphisms is bimodal, with a neutral peak and a second peak at s \u2248 \u221210^(\u22124). Other types of polymorphisms have shapes that fall roughly in between these two. We find that transcriptional start sites, strong CTCF-enriched elements and enhancers are the regulatory categories with the largest proportion of deleterious polymorphisms.', u'Third generation single molecule sequencing technology is poised to revolutionize genomics by enabling the sequencing of long, individual molecules of DNA and RNA. These technologies now routinely produce reads exceeding 5,000 basepairs, and can achieve reads as long as 50,000 basepairs. Here we evaluate the limits of single molecule sequencing by assessing the impact of long read sequencing in the assembly of the human genome and 25 other important genomes across the tree of life. From this, we develop a new data-driven model using support vector regression that can accurately predict assembly performance. We also present a novel hybrid error correction algorithm for long PacBio sequencing reads that uses pre-assembled Illumina sequences for the error correction. We apply it several prokaryotic and eukaryotic genomes, and show it can achieve near-perfect assemblies of small genomes (< 100Mbp) and substantially improved assemblies of larger ones. All source code and the assembly model are available open-source.', u'We present a new open-source algorithm, Scalpel, for sensitive and specific discovery of INDELs in exome-capture data. By combining the power of mapping and assembly, Scalpel carefully searches the de Bruijn graph for sequence paths that span each exon. A detailed repeat analysis coupled with a self-tuning k-mer strategy allows Scalpel to outperform other state-of-the-art approaches for INDEL discovery. We extensively compared Scalpel with a battery of >10000 simulated and >1000 experimentally validated INDELs against two recent algorithms: GATK HaplotypeCaller and SOAPindel. We report anomalies for these tools to detect INDELs in regions containing near-perfect repeats. We also present a large-scale application of Scalpel for detecting de novo and transmitted INDELs in 593 families from the Simons Simplex Collection. Scalpel demonstrates enhanced power to detect long (\u226520bp) transmitted events, and strengthens previous reports of enrichment for de novo likely gene-disrupting INDELs in autistic children with many new candidate genes.', u'High-throughput DNA sequencing technologies have revolutionized genomic analysis, including the de novo assembly of whole genomes. Nevertheless, assembly of complex genomes remains challenging, in part due to the presence of dispersed repeats which introduce ambiguity during genome reconstruction. Transposable elements (TEs) can be particularly problematic, especially for TE families exhibiting high sequence identity, high copy number, or present in complex genomic arrangements. While TEs strongly affect genome function and evolution, most current de novo assembly approaches cannot resolve long, identical, and abundant families of TEs. Here, we applied a novel Illumina technology called TruSeq synthetic long-reads, which are generated through highly parallel library preparation and local assembly of short read data and achieve lengths of 1.5-18.5 Kbp with an extremely low error rate (\u223c0.03% per base). To test the utility of this technology, we sequenced and assembled the genome of the model organism Drosophila melanogaster (reference genome strain y;cn,bw,sp) achieving an N50 contig size of 69.7 Kbp and covering 96.9% of the euchromatic chromosome arms of the current reference genome. TruSeq synthetic long-read technology enables placement of individual TE copies in their proper genomic locations as well as accurate reconstruction of TE sequences. We entirely recovered and accurately placed 4,229 (77.8%) of the 5,434 of annotated transposable elements with perfect identity to the current reference genome. As TEs are ubiquitous features of genomes of many species, TruSeq synthetic long- reads, and likely other methods that generate long reads, offer a powerful approach to improve de novo assemblies of whole genomes.', u'The 3D organization of the genome is tightly connected to its biological function. The Hi-C approach was recently introduced as a method that can be used to identify higher-order chromatin interactions genome-wide. The aim of this study was to determine genome-wide chromatin interaction frequencies using the Hi-C approach in mouse sperm cells and embryonic fibroblasts. The obtained results demonstrated that the 3D genome organizations of sperm and fibroblast cells show a high degree of similarity both with each other and with the previously described mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells. Both A- and B-compartments and topologically associated domains (TADs) are present in spermatozoa and fibroblasts. Nevertheless, sperm cells and fibroblasts exhibited statistically significant differences between each other in the contact probabilities of defined loci. Tight packaging of the sperm genome resulted in an enrichment of long-range contacts compared with the fibroblasts. However, only 30% of the differences in the number of contacts are based on differences in the densities of their genome packages; the main source of the differences is the gain or loss of contacts that are specific for defined genome regions. An analysis of interchromosomal contacts in both cell types demonstrated that the large chromosomes showed a tendency to interact with each other more than with the small chromosomes and vice versa. We found that the dependence of the contact probability P(s) on genomic distance for sperm is in a good agreement with the fractal globular folding of chromatin. The similarity of the spatial DNA organization in sperm and somatic cell genomes suggests the stability of the 3D structure of genomes through generations.', u'A number of social-ecological systems exhibit complex behaviour associated with nonlinearities, bifurcations, and interaction with stochastic drivers. These systems are often prone to abrupt and unexpected instabilities and state shifts that emerge as a discontinuous response to gradual changes in environmental drivers. Predicting such behaviours is crucial to the prevention of or  preparation for unwanted regime shifts. Recent research in ecology has investigated early warning signs that anticipate the divergence of univariate ecosystem dynamics from a stable attractor. To date, leading indicators of instability in systems with multiple interacting  components have remained poorly investigated. This is a major limitation in the understanding of the dynamics of complex social-ecological networks. Here, we develop a theoretical framework to demonstrate that rising variance ? measured, for example, by the maximum element of the covariance matrix of the network ? is an effective leading indicator of network instability. We show that its reliability and robustness depend more on the sign of the interactions within the network than the network structure or noise intensity. Mutualistic, scale free and small world networks are less stable than their antagonistic or random counterparts but their instability is more reliably predicted by this leading indicator. These results provide new advances in multidimensional early warning analysis and offer a framework to evaluate the resilience of social-ecological networks', u'RNA-Seq assembly facilitates the study of transcriptomes for species without sequenced genomes, but it is challenging to select the most accurate assembly in this context.  To address this challenge, we developed a model-based score, RSEM-EVAL, for evaluating assemblies when the ground truth is unknown.  Our experiments show that RSEM-EVAL correctly reflects assembly accuracy, as measured by REF-EVAL, a refined set of ground-truth-based scores that we also developed.  With the guidance of RSEM-EVAL, we assembled the transcriptome of the regenerating axolotl limb; this assembly compares favorably to a previous assembly.', u'A conspicuous feature of early animal development is the lack of transcription from the embryonic genome, and it typically takes several hours to several days (depending on the species) until widespread transcription of the embryonic genome begins. Although this transition is ubiquitous, relatively little is known about how the shift from a transcriptionally quiescent to transcriptionally active genome is controlled. We describe here the genome-wide distributions and temporal dynamics of nucleosomes and post-translational histone modifications through the maternal-to-zygotic transition in embryos of the pomace fly Drosophila melanogaster. At mitotic cycle 8, when few zygotic genes are being transcribed, embryonic chromatin is in a relatively simple state: there are few nucleosome free regions, undetectable levels of the histone methylation marks characteristic of mature chromatin, and low levels of histone acetylation at a relatively small number of loci. Histone acetylation increases by cycle 11, but it is not until cycle 13 that nucleosome free regions and domains of histone methylation become widespread. Early histone acetylation is strongly associated with regions that we have previously shown are bound in early embryos by the maternally deposited transcription factor Zelda. Most of these Zelda-bound regions are destined to be enhancers or promoters active during mitotic cycle 14, and our data demonstrate that they are biochemically distinct long before they become active, raising the possibility that Zelda triggers a cascade of events, including the accumulation of specific histone modifications, that plays a role in the subsequent activation of these sequences. Many of these Zelda-associated active regions occur in larger domains that we find strongly enriched for histone marks characteristic of Polycomb-mediated repression, suggesting a dynamic balance between Zelda activation and Polycomb repression. Collectively, these data paint a complex picture of a genome in transition from a quiescent to an active state, and highlight the role of Zelda in mediating this transition.', u'Multi-marker approaches are currently gaining a lot of interest in genome wide association studies and can enhance power to detect new associations under certain conditions. Gene- and pathway-based association tests are increasingly being viewed as useful complements to the more widely used single marker association analysis which have successfully uncovered numerous disease variants. A major drawback of single-marker based methods is that they do not consider pairwise and higher-order interactions between genetic variants. Here, we describe novel tests for multi-marker association analyses that are based on phenotype predictions obtained from machine learning algorithms. Instead of utilizing only a linear or logistic regression model, we propose the use of ensembles of diverse machine learning algorithms for constructing such association tests. As the true mathematical relationship between a phenotype and any group of genetic and clinical variables is unknown in advance and may be complex, such a strategy gives us a general and flexible framework to approximate this relationship across different sets of SNPs. We show how phenotype prediction obtained from ensemble learning algorithms can be used for constructing tests for the joint association of multiple variants. We first apply our method to simulated datasets to demonstrate its power and correctness. Then, we apply our method to previously studied asthma-related genes in two independent asthma cohorts to conduct association tests.', u'The scuttle fly Megaselia scalaris is a pest species whose larvae consume living or dead plant or animal tissue, and parasitize humans. Although known to exist on most continents, often transported passively with humans, the connectivity between populations has not been investigated. We use mitochondrial cytochrome B sequences to investigate structure among North American isolates of this species. Despite small sample sizes, we detected statistically significant structure among populations. This finding suggests that local measures may be effective in controlling this pest species.', u'The conserved Musashi (Msi) family of RNA binding proteins are expressed in stem/progenitor and cancer cells, but mostly absent from differentiated cells, consistent with a role in cell state regulation. We found that Msi genes are rarely mutated but frequently overexpressed in human cancers, and associated with an epithelial-luminal cell state.  Using ribosome footprint profiling and RNA-seq analysis of genetic mouse models in neuronal and mammary cell types, we found that Msis regulate translation of genes implicated in epithelial cell biology and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and promote an epithelial splicing pattern. Overexpression of Msi proteins inhibited translation of genes required for EMT, including Jagged1, and repressed EMT in cell culture and in mammary gland in vivo, while knockdown in epithelial cancer cells led to loss of epithelial identity.  Our results show that mammalian Msi proteins contribute to an epithelial gene expression program and promote an epithelial-luminal state in both neural and breast cell types.', u"MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of ~22nt non-coding RNAs that potentially regulate over 60% of human \nprotein-coding genes. MiRNA activity is highly specific, differing between cell types, developmental stages and \nenvironmental conditions, so the identification of active miRNAs in a given sample is of great interest. Here we \npresent a novel computational approach for analyzing both mRNA sequence and gene expression data, called \nMixMir. Our method corrects for 3' UTR background sequence similarity between transcripts, which is known to \ncorrelate with mRNA transcript abundance. We demonstrate that after accounting for kmer sequence similarities \nin 3' UTRs, a statistical linear model based on motif presence/absence can effectively discover active miRNAs in \na sample. MixMir utilizes fast software implementations for solving mixed linear models which are widely-used in\ngenome-wide association studies (GWAS). Essentially we use 3' UTR sequence similarity in place of population \ncryptic relatedness in the GWAS problem. Compared to similar methods such as miREDUCE, Sylamer and \ncWords, we found that MixMir performed better at discovering true miRNA motifs in Dicer knockout CD4+ T-cells, \nas well as protein and mRNA expression data obtained from miRNA transfection experiments in human cell lines.\nMixMir can be freely downloaded from https://github.com/ldiao/MixMir.", u'The recent advent of ribosome profiling ? sequencing of short ribosome-bound fragments of mRNA ? has offered an unprecedented opportunity to interrogate the sequence features responsible for modulating translational rates. Nevertheless, numerous analyses of the first riboprofiling dataset have produced equivocal and often incompatible results. Here we analyze three independent yeast riboprofiling data sets, including two with much higher coverage than previously available, and find that all three show substantial technical sequence biases that confound interpretations of ribosomal occupancy. After accounting for these biases, we find no effect of previously implicated factors on ribosomal pausing. Rather, we find that incorporation of proline, whose unique side-chain stalls peptide synthesis in vitro, also slows the ribosome in vivo. We also reanalyze a recent method that reported positively charged amino acids as the major determinant of ribosomal stalling and demonstrate that its assumptions lead to false signals of stalling in low-coverage data. Our results suggest that any analysis of riboprofiling data should account for sequencing biases and sparse coverage. To this end, we establish a robust methodology that enables analysis of ribosome profiling data without prior assumptions regarding which positions spanned by the ribosome cause stalling.', u'RNA viruses are the main source of emerging infectious diseases owed to the evolutionary potential bestowed by their fast replication, large population sizes and high mutation and recombination rates.  However, an equally important parameter, which is usually neglected, is the topography of the fitness landscape, that is, how many fitness maxima exist and how well connected they are, which determines the number of accessible evolutionary pathways.  To address this question, we have reconstructed the fitness landscape describing the adaptation of Tobacco etch potyvirus to its new host, Arabidopsis thaliana.  Fitness was measured for most of the genotypes in the landscape, showing the existence of peaks and holes.  We found prevailing epistatic effects between mutations, with cases of reciprocal sign epistasis being common at latter stages.  Therefore, results suggest that the landscape was rugged and holey, with several local fitness peaks and a very limited number of potential neutral paths.  The viral genotype fixed at the end of the evolutionary process was not on the global fitness optima but stuck into a suboptimal peak.', u'Recursive splicing is a process in which large introns are removed in multiple steps by resplicing at ratchet points - 5? splice sites recreated after splicing. Recursive splicing was first identified in the Drosophila Ultrabithorax (Ubx) gene and only three additional Drosophila genes have since been experimentally shown to undergo recursive splicing. Here, we identify 196 zero nucleotide exon ratchet points in 130 introns of 115 Drosophila genes from total RNA sequencing data generated from developmental time points, dissected tissues, and cultured cells. Recursive splicing events were identified by splice junctions that map to annotated 5? splice sites and unannotated intronic 3? splice sites, the presence of the sequence AG/GT at the 3? splice site, and a 5? to 3? gradient of decreasing RNA-Seq read density indicative of co-transcriptional splicing. The sequential nature of recursive splicing was confirmed by identification of lariat introns generated by splicing to and from the ratchet points. We also show that recursive splicing is a constitutive process, and that the sequence and function of ratchet points are evolutionarily conserved. Together these results indicate that recursive splicing is commonly used in Drosophila and provides insight into the mechanisms by which some introns are removed.', u'Phylogenetic analyses of molecular data require a quantitative model for how sequences evolve. Traditionally, the details of the site-specific selection that governs sequence evolution are not known a priori, making it challenging to create evolutionary models that adequately capture the heterogeneity of selection at different sites. However, recent advances in high-throughput experiments have made it possible to quantify the effects of all single mutations on gene function. I have previously shown that such high-throughput experiments can be combined with knowledge of underlying mutation rates to create a parameter-free evolutionary model that describes the phylogeny of influenza nucleoprotein far better than commonly used existing models. Here I extend this work by showing that published experimental data on TEM-1 beta-lactamase (Firnberg et al, 2014) can be combined with a few mutation rate parameters to create an evolutionary model that describes beta-lactamase phylogenies much than most common existing models. This experimentally informed evolutionary model is superior even for homologs that are substantially diverged (about 35% divergence at the protein level) from the TEM-1 parent that was the subject of the experimental study. These results suggest that experimental measurements can inform phylogenetic evolutionary models that are applicable to homologs that span a substantial range of sequence divergence.', u'New genomic tools are needed to elucidate the evolution of invasive, non-model organisms. Here we present the completed plastome assembly for the problematic invasive weed, Centaurea diffusa. This new tool represents a significant contribution to future studies of the ecological genomics of invasive plants, particularly this weedy genus, and studies of the Asteraceae in general.', u'Recently, a number of protocols extending RNA-sequencing to the single-cell regime have been published. However, we were concerned that the  additional steps to deal with such minute quantities of input sample would introduce serious biases that would make analysis of the data using existing approaches invalid. In this study, we performed a critical evaluation of several of these low-volume RNA-seq protocols, and found that they performed slightly less well in metrics of interest to us than a more standard protocol, but with at least two orders of magnitude less sample required. We also explored a simple modification to one of these protocols that, for many samples, reduced the cost of library preparation to approximately $20/sample.', u"Deep mutational scanning has emerged as a promising tool for mapping sequence-activity relationships in proteins, RNA and DNA. In this approach, diverse variants of a sequence of interest are first ranked according to their activities in a relevant pooled assay, and this ranking is then used to infer the shape of the fitness landscape around the wild-type sequence. Little is currently know, however, about the degree to which such fitness landscapes are dependent on the specific assay conditions from which they are inferred. To explore this issue, we performed deep mutational scanning of APH(3')II, a Tn5 transposon-derived kinase that confers resistance to aminoglycoside antibiotics, in E. coli under selection with each of six structurally diverse antibiotics at a range of inhibitory concentrations. We found that the resulting fitness landscapes showed significant dependence on both antibiotic structure and concentration. This shows that the notion of essential amino acid residues is context-dependent, but also that this dependence can be exploited to guide protein engineering. Specifically, we found that differential analysis of fitness landscapes allowed us to generate synthetic APH(3')II variants with orthogonal substrate specificities.", u'The extent that both positive and negative selection vary across different portions of plant genomes remains poorly understood. Here, we sequence whole genomes of 13 Capsella grandiflora individuals and quantify the amount of selection across the genome. Using an estimate of the distribution of fitness effects, we show that selection is strong in coding regions, but weak in most noncoding regions, with the exception of 5\x92 and 3\x92 untranslated regions (UTRs). However, estimates of selection in noncoding regions conserved across the Brassicaceae family show strong signals of selection. Additionally, we see reductions in neutral diversity around functional substitutions in both coding and conserved noncoding regions, indicating recent selective sweeps at these sites.  Finally, using expression data from leaf tissue we show that genes that are more highly expressed experience stronger negative selection but comparable levels of positive selection to lowly expressed genes.  Overall, we observe widespread positive and negative selection in coding and regulatory regions, but our results also suggest that both positive and negative selection in plant noncoding sequence are considerably rarer than in animal genomes.', u'Biopolymers, such as poly-3-hydroxy-butyrate (P(3HB)) are produced as a carbon store in an array of organisms and exhibit characteristics which are similar to oil-derived plastics, yet have the added advantages of biodegradability and biocompatibility. Despite these advantages, P(3HB) production is currently more expensive than the production of oil-derived plastics, and therefore more efficient P(3HB) production processes are required. In this study, we describe the model-guided design and experimental characterization of several engineered P(3HB) producing operons. In particular, we describe the characterization of a novel hybrid phaCAB operon that consists of a dual promoter (native and J23104) and RBS (native and B0034) design. P(3HB) production was around six-fold higher in hybrid phaCAB engineered Escherichia coli in comparison to E. coli engineered with the native phaCAB operon from Ralstonia eutropha H16. The hybrid phaCAB operon represents a step towards the more efficient production of P(3HB), which has an array of applications from 3D printing to tissue engineering.', u'Advances in sequencing technology have forced a quantitative revolution in Evolutionary Biology. One important feature of this renaissance is that comprehensive genomic resources can be obtained quickly for almost any taxon, thus speeding the development of new model organisms. Here we analyze 20 RNA-seq libraries from morphologically, sexually, and genetically distinct polyp types from the gonochoristic colonial hydrozoan,Hydractinia symbiolongicarpus (Cnidaria). Analyses of these data using Weighted Gene Co-expression Networks highlights deeply conserved genetic elements of animal spermatogenesis and demonstrate the utility of these methods in identifying modules of genes that correlate with different zooid types across various statistical contrasts. RNAseq data and analytical scripts described here are deposited in publicly available databases.', u'Background: Comprehensive understanding of mechanisms of genome functions requires identification of molecules interacting with genomic regions of interest in vivo. We have developed the insertional chromatin immunoprecipitatin (iChIP) technology to isolate specific genomic regions retaining molecular interactions and identify their associated molecules. iChIP consists of locus-tagging and affinity purification. The recognition sequences of an exogenous DNA-binding protein such as LexA are inserted into a genomic region of interest in the cell to be analyzed. The exogenous DNA-binding protein fused with a tag(s) is expressed in the cell and the target genomic region is purified with antibody against the tag(s). In this study, we developed the iChIP system using recombinant DNA-binding proteins to make iChIP more straightforward.\nResults: In this system, recombinant 3xFNLDD-D (r3xFNLDD-D) consisting of the 3xFLAG-tag, a nuclear localization signal, the DNA-binding domain plus the dimerization domain of the LexA protein, and the Dock-tag is used for isolation of specific genomic regions. 3xFNLDD-D was expressed using a silkworm-baculovirus expression system and purified by affinity purification. iChIP using r3xFNLDD-D could efficiently isolate the single-copy chicken Pax5 (cPax5) locus, in which LexA binding elements were inserted, with negligible contamination of other genomic regions. In addition, we could detect RNA associated with the cPax5 locus using this form of the iChIP system combined with RT-PCR.\nConclusions: The iChIP system using r3xFNLDD-D can isolate specific genomic regions retaining molecular interactions without expression of the exogenous DNA-binding protein in the cell to be analyzed. iChIP using r3xFNLDD-D would be more straightforward and useful for analysis of specific genomic regions to elucidate their functions.', u'In the past years, RNA sequencing has become the method of choice for the study of transcriptome composition. When working with this type of data, several tools exist to quantify differences in splicing across conditions and to address the significance of those changes. However, the number of genes predicted to undergo differential splicing is often high, and further interpretation of the results becomes a challenging task. Here we present SwitchSeq, a novel set of tools designed to help the users in the interpretation of differential splicing events that affect protein coding genes. More specifically, we provide a framework to identify switch events, i.e., cases where, for a given gene, the identity of the most abundant transcript changes across conditions. The identified events are then annotated by incorporating information from several public databases and third-party tools, and are further visualised in an intuitive manner with the independent R package tviz. All the results are displayed in a self-contained HTML document, and are also stored in txt and json format to facilitate the integration with any further downstream analysis tools. Such analysis approach can be used complementarily to Gene Ontology and pathway enrichment analysis, and can also serve as an aid in the validation of predicted changes in mRNA and protein abundance.\nThe latest version of SwitchSeq, including installation instructions and use cases, can be found at https://github.com/mgonzalezporta/SwitchSeq. Additionally, the plot capabilities are provided as an independent R package at https://github.com/mgonzalezporta/tviz.', u'Background: Prior to applying genomic predictors to clinical samples, the genomic data must be properly normalized. The most effective normalization methods depend on the data from multiple patients. From a biomedical perspective this implies that predictions for a single patient may change depending on which other patient samples they are normalized with. This test set bias will occur when any cross-sample normalization is used before clinical prediction.\nMethods: We developed a new prediction modeling framework based on the relative ranks of features within a sample in order to prevent the need for cross-sample normalization, therefore effectively avoiding test set bias. We employed modeling with previously published Top-Scoring Pairs (TSPs) methodology to build the rank-based predictors. We further investigated the robustness of the rank-based models in case of heterogeneous datasets using diverse microarray technologies.\nResults: We demonstrated that results from existing genetic signatures which rely on normalizing test data may be unreproducible when the patient population changes compo- sition or size. Using pairwise comparisons of features, we produced a ten gene, platform- robust, and interpretable alternative to the PAM50 subtyping signature and evaluated the robustness of our signature across 6,297 patients samples from 28 curated breast cancer microarray datasets spanning 15 different platforms.\nConclusion: We propose a new approach to developing genomic signatures that avoids test set bias through the robustness of rank-based features. Our small, interpretable alter- native to PAM50 produces comparable predictions and patient survival differentiation to the original signature. Additionally, we are able to ensure that the same patient will be classified the same way in every context.', u'Background\nThe identification of apparently conserved gene complements in the venom and salivary glands of a diverse set of reptiles led to the development of the Toxicofera hypothesis \x96 the idea that there was a single, early evolution of the venom system in reptiles. However, this hypothesis is based largely on relatively small scale EST-based studies of only venom or salivary glands and toxic effects have been assigned to only some of these putative Toxcoferan toxins in some species. We set out to investigate the distribution of these putative venom toxin transcripts in order to investigate to what extent conservation of gene complements may reflect a bias in previous sampling efforts.  \nResults\nWe have carried out the first large-scale test of the Toxicofera hypothesis and found it lacking in a number of regards. Our quantitative transcriptomic analyses of venom and salivary glands and other body tissues in five species of reptile, together with the use of available RNA-Seq datasets for additional species shows that the majority of genes used to support the establishment and expansion of the Toxicofera are in fact expressed in multiple body tissues and most likely represent general maintenance or \x93housekeeping\x94 genes. The apparent conservation of gene complements across the Toxicofera therefore reflects an artefact of incomplete tissue sampling. In other cases, the identification of a non-toxic paralog of a gene encoding a true venom toxin has led to confusion about the phylogenetic distribution of that venom component.\nConclusions\nVenom has evolved multiple times in reptiles. In addition, the misunderstanding regarding what constitutes a toxic venom component, together with the misidentification of genes and the classification of identical or near-identical sequences as distinct genes has led to an overestimation of the complexity of reptile venoms in general, and snake venom in particular, with implications for our understanding of (and development of treatments to counter) the molecules responsible for the physiological consequences of snakebite.', u'We surveyed the marine gobies of Malapascua island (Philippines), the surrounding islets and the\nnearby Monad shoal. We found 59 species in 19 genera, including 2 undescribed species of the\ngenus Trimma, and 3 geographic and 6 depth range expansions. Furthermore we describe a new\ntype of mimicry between the goby Koumasetta hectori and the cardinalfish Apogon nigrofasciatus.\nThe comparison of the island versus shoal goby fauna showed a lesser species richness of shrimpassociated\ngobies at the shoal. This likely reflects the fact that hydrodynamic features of the\nenvironment play a dominant role in selecting which gobiid species, or their symbiotic shrimp, will\nbe found in a certain location. We also observed a bias towards hovering species (of the genus\nTrimma) and away from shrimp-associated gobies at greater depths. These findings are in accord\nwith the suspected shift of gobies towards planctotrophy with increasing depth.\nWe furthermore compare this study to previous surveys of goby faunas, and plot the recorded\nspecies numbers against the survey areas. This species-area plot provides support for the notion of\nhigh speciation rates in gobies due to their low mobility.', u'Background\nUnderstanding the evolution of the vertebrate pancreas is key to understanding its functions. The chondrichthyes (cartilaginous fish such as sharks and rays) have been suggested to possess the most ancient example of a distinct pancreas with both hormonal (endocrine) and digestive (exocrine) roles, although the lack of genetic, genomic and transcriptomic data for cartilaginous fish has hindered a more thorough understanding of the molecular-level functions of the chondrichthyan pancreas, particularly with respect to their \x93unusual\x94 energy metabolism (where ketone bodies and amino acids are the main oxidative fuel source) and their paradoxical ability to both maintain stable blood glucose levels and tolerate extensive periods of hypoglycemia. In order to shed light on some of these processes we have carried out the first large-scale comparative transcriptomic survey of multiple cartilaginous fish tissues: the pancreas, brain and liver of the lesser spotted catshark, Scyliorhinus canicula.\nResults\nWe generated a mutli-tissue assembly comprising 86,006 contigs, of which 44,794 were assigned to a particular tissue or combination of tissue based on mapping of sequencing reads. We have characterised transcripts encoding genes involved in insulin regulation, glucose sensing, transcriptional regulation, signaling and digestion, as well as many peptide hormone precursors and their receptors for the first time. Comparisons to published mammalian pancreas transcriptomes reveals that mechanisms of glucose sensing and insulin regulation used to establish and maintain a stable internal environment are conserved across jawed vertebrates and likely pre-date the vertebrate radiation.  Conservation of pancreatic hormones and genes encoding digestive proteins support the single, early evolution of a distinct pancreatic gland with endocrine and exocrine functions in vertebrates, although the peptide diversity of the early vertebrate pancreas has been overestimated as a result of the use of cross-reacting antisera in earlier studies. A three hormone islet organ is therefore the basal vertebrate condition, later elaborated upon only in the tetrapod lineage.\nConclusions\nThe cartilaginous fish are a great untapped resource for the reconstruction of patterns and processes of vertebrate evolution and new approaches such as those described in this paper will greatly facilitate their incorporation into the rank of \x93model organism\x94.', u'RNA-sequencing (RNA-Seq) has become the\n  technology of choice for whole-transcriptome profiling. However,\n  processing the millions of sequence reads generated requires\n  considerable bioinformatics skills and computational resources. At\n  each step of the processing pipeline many tools are available, each\n  with specific advantages and disadvantages. While using a specific\n  combination of tools might be desirable, integrating the different\n  tools can be time consuming, often due to specificities in the\n  formats of input/output files required by the different programs.\n\n   Here we present iRAP, an integrated RNA-seq\n  analysis pipeline that allows the user to select and apply their\n  preferred combination of existing tools for  mapping\n  reads, quantifying expression, testing for differential\n  expression. iRAP also includes multiple tools for gene set\n  enrichment analysis and generates web browsable reports of the\n  results obtained in the different stages of the pipeline.\n  Depending upon the application, iRAP can be used to quantify\n  expression at the gene, exon or transcript level. iRAP is aimed at a\n  broad group of users with basic bioinformatics training and requires\n  little experience with the command line. Despite this, it also\n  provides more advanced users with the ability to customise the\n  options used by their chosen tools.', u'Background\nOne of the most common goals of hierarchical clustering is finding those branches of a tree that form quantifiably distinct data subtypes. Achieving this goal in a statistically meaningful way requires (a) a measure of distinctness of a branch and (b) a test to determine the significance of the observed measure, applicable to all branches and across multiple scales of dissimilarity.\nResults\nWe formulate a method termed Tree Branches Evaluated Statistically for Tightness (TBEST) for identifying significantly distinct tree branches in hierarchical clusters. For each branch of the tree a measure of distinctness, or tightness, is defined as a rational function of heights, both of the branch and of its parent. A statistical procedure is then developed to determine the significance of the observed values of tightness. We test TBEST as a tool for tree-based data partitioning by applying it to five benchmark datasets, one of them synthetic and the other four each from a different area of biology.  For each dataset there is a well-defined partition of the data into classes. In all test cases TBEST performs on par with or better than the existing techniques. \nConclusions\nBased on our benchmark analysis, TBEST is a tool of choice for detection of significantly distinct branches in hierarchical trees grown from biological data. An R language implementation of the method is available from the Comprehensive R Archive Network: cran.r-project.org/web/packages/TBEST/index.html\u200e.', u"Efficient regulation of internal homeostasis and defending it against perturbations requires complex behavioral strategies. However, the computational principles mediating brain's homeostatic regulation of reward and associative learning remain undefined. Here we use a definition of primary rewards, as outcomes fulfilling physiological needs, to build a normative theory showing how learning motivated behavior is modulated by the internal state of the animal. The theory proves that seeking rewards is equivalent to the fundamental objective of physiological stability, defining the notion of physiological rationality of behavior. We further give a formal basis for temporal discounting of reward. It also explains how animals learn to act predictively to preclude prospective homeostatic challenges, and attributes a normative computational role to the modulation of midbrain dopaminergic activity by hypothalamic signals.", u'The systematic classification of Osmundaceae has long remained controversial. Recent molecular data indicate that Osmunda is paraphyletic, and needs to be separated into Osmundastrum and Osmunda s. str. Here we describe an exquisitely preserved Jurassic Osmunda rhizome (O. pulchella sp. nov.) that combines diagnostic features of Osmundastrum and Osmunda, calling molecular evidence for paraphyly into question. We assembled a new morphological matrix based on rhizome anatomy, and used network analyses to establish phylogenetic relationships between fossil and extant members of modern Osmundaceae. We re-analysed the original molecular data to evaluate root-placement support. Finally, we integrated morphological and molecular data-sets using the evolutionary placement algorithm. Osmunda pulchella and five additional, newly identified Jurassic Osmunda species show anatomical character suites intermediate between Osmundastrum and Osmunda. Molecular evidence for paraphyly is ambiguous: a previously unrecognized signal from spacer sequences favours an alternative root placement that would resolve Osmunda s.l. as monophyletic. Our evolutionary placement analysis identifies fossil species as ancestral members of modern genera and subgenera. Altogether, the seemingly conflicting evidence from morphological, anatomical, molecular, and palaeontological data can be elegantly reconciled under the assumption that Osmunda is indeed monophyletic; the recently proposed root-placement in Osmundaceae\x97based solely on molecular data\x97likely results from un- or misinformative out-group signals.', u'Evolve and resequence studies combine artificial selection experiments with massively parallel sequencing technology to study the genetic basis for complex traits. In these experiments, individuals are selected for extreme values of a trait, causing alleles at quantitative trait loci (QTLs) to increase or decrease in frequency in the experimental population. We present a new analysis of the power of artificial selection experiments to detect and localize quantitative trait loci. This analysis uses a simulation framework that explicitly models whole genomes of individuals, quantitative traits, and selection based on individual trait values. We find that explicitly modeling QTL provides produces qualitatively different insights than considering independent loci with constant selection coefficients. Specifically, we observe how interference between QTLs under selection impacts the trajectories and lengthens the fixation times of selected alleles. We also show that a substantial portion of the genetic variance of the trait (50\x96100%) can be explained by detected QTLs in as little as 20 generations of selection, depending on the trait architecture and experimental design. Furthermore, we show that power depends crucially on the opportunity for recombination during the experiment. Finally, we show that an increase in power is obtained by leveraging founder haplotype information to obtain allele frequency estimates.', u'Quantification of RNA transcripts with RNA-Seq is inaccurate due to positional fragmentation bias, which is not represented appropriately by current statistical models of RNA-Seq data. Another, less investigated, source of error is the inaccuracy of transcript start and end annotations.\nThis article introduces the Mix2 (rd. \x94mixquare\x94) model, which uses a mixture of probability distributions to model the transcript specific positional fragment bias. The parameters of the Mix2 model can be efficiently trained with the EM algorithm and are tied between similar transcripts. Transcript specific shift and scale parameters allow the Mix2 model to automatically correct inaccurate transcript start and end annotations.\nExperiments are conducted on synthetic data covering 7 genes of different complexity, 4 types of fragment bias and correct as well as incorrect transcript start and end annotations. Abundance estimates obtained by Cufflinks 2.2.0, PennSeq and the Mix2 model show superior performance of the Mix2 model in the vast majority of test conditions.', u'An emerging disease is one infectious epidemic caused by a newly transmissible pathogen, which has either appeared for the first time or already existed in human populations, having the capacity to increase rapidly in incidence as well as geographic range. Adapting to human immune system, emerging diseases may trigger large-scale pandemic spreading, such as the transnational spreading of SARS, the global outbreak of A(H1N1), and the recent potential invasion of avian influenza A(H7N9). To study the dynamics mediating the transmission of emerging diseases, spatial epidemiology of networked metapopulation provides a valuable modeling framework, which takes spatially distributed factors into consideration. This review elaborates the latest progresses on the spatial metapopulation dynamics, discusses empirical and theoretical findings that verify the validity of networked metapopulations, and the application in evaluating the effectiveness of disease intervention strategies as well.', u'The eukaryotic cytoskeleton evolved from prokaryotic cytomotive filaments. Prokaryotic filament systems show bewildering structural and dynamic complexity, and in many aspects prefigure the self-organizing properties of the eukaryotic cytoskeleton. Here I compare the dynamic properties of the prokaryotic and eukaryotic cytoskeleton, and discuss how these relate to function and the evolution of organellar networks. The evolution of new aspects of filament dynamics in eukaryotes, including severing and branching, and the advent of molecular motors converted the eukaryotic cytoskeleton into a self-organizing \x91active gel\x92, the dynamics of which can only be described with computational models. Advances in modeling and comparative genomics hold promise of a better understanding of the evolution of the self-organizing cytoskeleton in early eukaryotes, and its role in the evolution of novel eukaryotic functions, such as amoeboid motility, mitosis, and ciliary swimming.', u'In the context of Wright\'s adaptive landscape, genetic epistasis can yield a multi-peaked or "rugged" topography. In an unstructured population, a lineage with selective access to multiple peaks is expected to rapidly fix on one, which may not be the highest peak. Contrarily, beneficial mutations in a population with spatially restricted migration take longer to fix, allowing distant parts of the population to explore the landscape semi-independently. Such a population can simultaneous discover multiple peaks and the genotype at the highest discovered peak is expected to fix eventually. Thus, structured populations sacrifice initial speed of adaptation for breadth of search. As in the Tortoise-Hare fable, the structured population (Tortoise) starts relatively slow, but eventually surpasses the unstructured population (Hare) in average fitness. In contrast, on single-peak landscapes (e.g., systems lacking epistasis), all uphill paths converge. Given such "smooth" topography, breadth of search is devalued, and a structured population only lags behind an unstructured population in average fitness (ultimately converging). Thus, the Tortoise-Hare pattern is an indicator of ruggedness. After verifying these predictions in simulated populations where ruggedness is manipulable, we then explore average fitness in metapopulations of Escherichia coli. Consistent with a rugged landscape topography, we find a Tortoise-Hare pattern. Further, we find that structured populations accumulate more mutations, suggesting that distant peaks are higher. This approach can be used to unveil landscape topography in other systems, and we discuss its application for antibiotic resistance, engineering problems, and elements of Wright\'s Shifting Balance Process.', u'The temperate-tropical division of early maize germplasm to different agricultural environments was arguably the greatest adaptation process associated with the success and near ubiquitous importance of global maize production. Deciphering this history is challenging, but new insight has been gained from the genomic, transcriptomic and phenotypic variation collected from 368 diverse temperate and tropical maize inbred lines in this study. This is the first attempt to systematically explore the mechanisms of the adaptation process. Our results indicated that divergence between tropical and temperate lines seem occur 3,400-6,700 years ago. A number of genomic selection signals and transcriptomic variants including differentially expressed individual genes and rewired co-expression networks of genes were identified. These candidate signals were found to be functionally related to stress response and most were associated with directionally selected traits, which may have been an advantage under widely varying environmental conditions faced by maize as it was migrated away from its domestication center. It?s also clear in our study that such stress adaptation could involve evolution of protein-coding sequences as well as transcriptome-level regulatory changes. This latter process may be a more flexible and dynamic way for maize to adapt to environmental changes over this dramatically short evolutionary time frame.', u'In this paper we revisit the classic theory of forest succession that relates shade tolerance and species replacement and assess its validity to understand patch-mosaic patterns of forested ecosystems of the USA. We introduce a macroscopic parameter called the "shade tolerance index" and compare it to the classic continuum index in southern Wisconsin forests. We exemplify shade tolerance driven succession in White Pine--Eastern Hemlock forests using computer simulations and analyzing approximated chronosequence data from the USDA FIA forest inventory. We describe this parameter across the last 50 years in the ecoregions of mainland USA, and demonstrate that it does not correlate with the usual macroscopic characteristics of stand age, biomass, basal area, and biodiversity measures. We characterize the dynamics of shade tolerance index using transition matrices and delimit geographical areas based on the relevance of shade tolerance to explain forest succession. We conclude that shade tolerance driven succession is linked to climatic variables and can be considered as a primary driving factor of forest dynamics mostly in central-north and northeastern areas in the USA. Overall, the shade tolerance index constitutes a new quantitative approach that can be used to understand and predict succession of forested ecosystems and biogeographic patterns.', u'Patients with chronic granulomatous disease(CGD) lack generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) through the phagocyte NADPH oxidase NOX2. CGD is an immune deficiency that leads to frequent infections with certain pathogens; this is well documented for S. aureus and A. fumigatus, but less clear for mycobacteria. We therefore performed an extensive literature search which yielded 297 cases of CGD patients with mycobacterial infections; M.bovis BCG was most commonly recovered (74%). The relationship between NOX2 deficiency and BCG infection however has never been studied in a mouse model. We therefore investigated BCG infection in three different mouse models of CGD: Ncf1 mutants in two different genetic backgrounds and NOX2 knock-out mice. In addition we investigated a macrophage-specific rescue (transgenic expression of Ncf1 under the control of the CD68 promoter). Wild type mice did not develop severe disease upon BCG injection. In contrast, all three types of CGD mice were highly susceptible to BCG, as witnessed by a severe weight loss, development of hemorrhagic pneumonia, and a high mortality (~ 50%). Rescue of NOX2 activity in macrophages restored BCG resistance, similar as seen in wild-type mice. Granulomas from mycobacteria-infected wild type mice generated ROS, while granulomas from CGD mice did not. Bacterial load in CGD mice was only moderately increased, suggesting that it was not crucial for the observed phenotype. CGD mice responded with massively enhanced cytokine release (TNF-\uf061, IFN-\uf067, IL-17 and IL-12) to BCG infection, which might account for severity of the disease. Finally, in wild-type mice, macrophages formed clusters and restricted mycobacteria to granulomas, while macrophages and mycobacteria were diffusely distributed in lung tissue from CGD mice. Our results demonstrate that lack of the NADPH oxidase leads to a markedly increased severity of BCG infection through mechanisms including increased cytokine production and impaired granuloma formation.', u"A modular pattern, also called community structure, is ubiquitous in biological networks. There has been an increased interest in unraveling the community structure of biological systems as it may provide important insights into a system's functional components and the impact of local structures on dynamics at a global scale. Choosing an appropriate community detection algorithm to identify the community structure in an empirical network can be difficult, however, as the many algorithms available are based on a variety of cost functions and are difficult to validate. Even when community structure is identified in an empirical system, disentangling the effect of community structure from other network properties such as clustering coefficient and assortativity can be a challenge. Here, we develop a generative model to produce undirected, simple, connected graphs with a specified degrees and pattern of communities, while maintaining a graph structure that is as random as possible. Additionally, we demonstrate two important applications of our model: (a) to generate networks that can be used to benchmark existing and new algorithms for detecting communities in biological networks; and (b) to generate null models to serve as random controls when investigating the impact of complex network features beyond the byproduct of degree and modularity in empirical biological networks. Our model allows for the systematic study of the presence of community structure and its impact on network function and dynamics. This process is a crucial step in unraveling the functional consequences of the structural properties of biological systems and uncovering the mechanisms that drive these systems.", u'M\xfcllerian mimicry, the similarity among unpalatable species, is thought to evolve by frequency-dependent selection. Accordingly, phenotypes that become established in an area are positively selected because predators have learnt to avoid these forms, while introduced phenotypes are eliminated because predators have not yet learnt to associate these other forms with unprofitability. We tested this prediction in two areas where different colour morphs of the mimetic species Heliconius erato and H. melpomene have become established, as well as in the hybrid zone between these morphs. In each area we tested for selection on three colour patterns: the two parental and the most common hybrid. We recorded bird predation on butterfly models with paper wings, matching the appearance of each morph to bird vision, and plasticine bodies. We did not detect differences in survival between colour morphs, but all morphs were more highly attacked in the hybrid zone. This finding is consistent with recent evidence from controlled experiments with captive birds, which suggest that the effectiveness of warning signals decreases when a large signal diversity is available to predators. This is likely to occur in the hybrid zone where over twenty hybrid phenotypes coexist.', u'A novel genome-wide genetics platform is presented in this study, which permits functional interrogation of all point mutations across a viral genome in parallel. Here we generated the first fitness profile of individual point mutations across the influenza virus genome. Critical residues on the viral genome were systematically identified, which provided a collection of subdomain data informative for structure-function studies and for effective rational drug and vaccine design. Our data was consistent with known, well-characterized structural features. In addition, we have achieved a validation rate of 68% for severely attenuated mutations and 94% for neutral mutations. The approach described in this study is applicable to other viral or microbial genomes where a means of genetic manipulation is available.', u'The t(1,11) chromosome translocation co-segregates with major psychiatric disorders in a large Scottish family.  The translocation disrupts the DISC1and Boymaw (DISC1FP1) genes on chromosomes 1 and 11, respectively.  After translocation, two fusion genes are generated.  Our recent studies found that the DISC1-Boymaw fusion protein is localized in mitochondria and inhibits oxidoreductase activity, rRNA expression, and protein translation.  Mice carrying the DISC1-Boymaw fusion genes display intermediate behavioral phenotypes related to major psychiatric disorders.  Here, we report that the Boymaw gene encodes a small protein predominantly localized in mitochondria.  The Boymaw protein inhibits oxidoreductase activity, rRNA expression, and protein translation in the same way as the DISC1-Boymaw fusion protein.  Interestingly, Boymaw expression is up-regulated by different stressors at RNA and/or protein translational levels.  In addition, we found that Boymaw RNA expression is significantly increased in the postmortem brains of patients with major psychiatric disorders.  Our studies therefore suggest that the Boymaw gene is a potential susceptibility gene for major psychiatric disorders in both the Scottish t(1,11) family and the general population of patients.', u'Sulfate-reducing bacteria play major roles in the global carbon and sulfur cycles, but it remains unclear how reducing sulfate yields energy. To determine the genetic basis of energy conservation, we measured the fitness of thousands of pooled mutants of Desulfovibrio alaskensis G20 during growth in 12 different combinations of electron donors and acceptors.  We show that ion pumping by the ferredoxin:NADH oxidoreductase Rnf is required whenever substrate-level phosphorylation is not possible.  The uncharacterized complex Hdr/flox-1 (Dde_1207:13) is sometimes important alongside Rnf and may perform an electron bifurcation to generate more reduced ferredoxin from NADH to allow further ion pumping. Similarly, during the oxidation of malate or fumarate, the electron-bifurcating transhydrogenase NfnAB-2 (Dde_1250:1) is important and may generate reduced ferredoxin to allow additional ion pumping by Rnf.  During formate oxidation, the periplasmic [NiFeSe] hydrogenase HysAB is required, which suggests that hydrogen forms in the periplasm, diffuses to the cytoplasm, and is used to reduce ferredoxin, thus providing a substrate for Rnf.  During hydrogen utilization, the transmembrane electron transport complex Tmc is important and may move electrons from the periplasm into the cytoplasmic sulfite reduction pathway. Finally, mutants of many other putative electron carriers ave no clear phenotype, which suggests that they are not important under our growth conditions.', u'The t(1; 11) translocation appears to be the causal genetic lesion with 70% penetrance for schizophrenia, major depression, and other psychiatric disorders in a Scottish family.  Molecular studies identified the disruption of the DISC1 (disrupted-in-schizophrenia 1) gene by chromosome translocation at chromosome 1q42.  Our previous studies, however, revealed that the translocation also disrupted another gene, Boymaw (also termed DISC1FP1), on chromosome 11.  After translocation, two fusion genes (the DISC1-Boymaw (DB7) and the Boymaw-DISC1 (BD13)) are generated between the DISC1 and Boymaw genes.  In the present study, we report that expression of the DB7 fusion gene inhibits both intracellular NADH oxidoreductase activities and protein translation.  We generated humanized DISC1-Boymaw mice with gene targeting to examine the in vivo functions of the fusion genes.  Consistent with the in vitro studies on the DB7 fusion gene, protein translation activity is decreased in the hippocampus and in cultured primary neurons from the brains of the humanized mice.  Expression of Gad67, Nmdar1, and Psd95 proteins are also reduced.  The humanized mice display prolonged and increased responses to the NMDA receptor antagonist, ketamine, on various mouse genetic backgrounds.  Abnormal information processing of acoustic startle and depressive-like behaviors are also observed.  In addition, the humanized mice display abnormal erythropoiesis, which was reported to associate with depression in humans.  Expression of the DB7 fusion gene may reduce protein translation to impair brain functions and thereby contribute to the pathogenesis of major psychiatric disorders.', u'Model organisms can serve the biological and medical community by enabling the study of conserved gene families and pathways in experimentally-tractable systems.  Their use, however, hinges on the ability to reliably identify evolutionary orthologs and paralogs with high accuracy, which can be a great challenge at both small and large evolutionary distances.  Here, we present a phylogenomics-based approach for the identification of orthologous and paralogous genes in human, mouse, fly, and worm, which forms the foundation of the comparative analyses of the modENCODE and mouse ENCODE projects.  We study a median of 16,101 genes across 2 mammalian genomes (human, mouse), 12 Drosophila genomes, 5 Caenorhabditis genomes, and an outgroup yeast genome, and demonstrate that accurate inference of evolutionary relationships and events across these species must account for frequent gene-tree topology errors due to both incomplete lineage sorting and insufficient phylogenetic signal.  Furthermore, we show that integration of two separate phylogenomic pipelines yields increased accuracy, suggesting that their sources of error are independent, and finally, we leverage the resulting annotation of homologous genes to study the functional impact of gene duplication and loss in the context of rich gene expression and functional genomic datasets of the modENCODE, mouse ENCODE, and human ENCODE projects.', u'Modification of gene regulation has long been considered an important force in human evolution, particularly through changes to cis-regulatory elements (CREs) that function in transcriptional regulation.  For decades, however, the study of cis-regulatory evolution was severely limited by the available data.  New data sets describing the locations of CREs and genetic variation within and between species have now made it possible to study CRE evolution much more directly on a genome-wide scale.  Here, we review recent research on the evolution of CREs in humans based on large-scale genomic data sets.  We consider inferences based on primate divergence,human polymorphism, and combinations of divergence and polymorphism.  We then consider "new frontiers" in this field stemming from recent research on transcriptional regulation.', u'Transgenic constructs intended to be stably established at high frequencies in wild popu- lations have been demonstrated to \x93drive\x94 from low frequencies in experimental insect populations. Link- ing such population transformation constructs to genes which render them unable to transmit pathogens could eventually be used to stop the spread of vector-borne diseases like malaria and dengue. Generally, population transformation constructs with only a single transgenic drive mechanism have been envisioned. Using a theoretical modelling approach we describe the predicted properties of a construct combining autosomal Medea and underdominant population transformation systems. We show that when combined they can exhibit synergistic properties which in broad circumstances surpass those of the single systems. With combined systems, intentional population transformation and its reversal can be achieved readily. Combined constructs also enhance the capacity to geographically restrict transgenic constructs to targeted populations. It is anticipated that these properties are likely to be of particular value in attracting regulatory approval and public acceptance of this novel technology.', u'Recent advances in next-generation sequencing technology allow high-throughput cDNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) to be widely applied in transcriptomic studies, in particular for detecting differentially expressed genes between groups. Many software packages have been developed for the identification of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between treatment groups based on RNA-Seq data. However, there is a lack of consensus on how to approach an optimal study design and choice of suitable software for the analysis. In this comparative study we evaluate the performance of three of the most frequently used software tools: Cufflinks-Cuffdiff2, DESeq and edgeR. A number of important parameters of RNA-Seq technology were taken into consideration, including the number of replicates, sequencing depth, and balanced vs. unbalanced sequencing depth within and between groups. We benchmarked results relative to sets of DEGs identified through either quantitative RT-PCR or microarray. We observed that edgeR performs slightly better than DESeq and Cuffdiff2 in terms of the ability to uncover true positives. Overall, DESeq or taking the intersection of DEGs from two or more tools is recommended if the number of false positives is a major concern in the study. In other circumstances, edgeR is slightly preferable for differential expression analysis at the expense of potentially introducing more false positives.', u'Yeast cells grown in culture can spontaneously synchronize their respiration, metabolism, gene expression and cell division. Such metabolic oscillations in synchronized cultures reflect single-cell oscillations, but the relationship between the oscillations in single cells and synchronized cultures is poorly understood. To understand this relationship and the coordination between metabolism and cell division, we collected and analyzed DNA-content, gene-expression and physiological data, at hundreds of time-points, from cultures metabolically-synchronized at different growth rates, carbon sources and biomass densities. The data enabled us to extend and generalize our mechanistic model, based on ensemble average over phases (EAP), connecting the population-average gene-expression of asynchronous cultures to the gene-expression dynamics in the single-cells comprising the cultures. The extended model explains the carbon-source specific growth-rate responses of hundreds of genes. Our physiological data demonstrate that the frequency of metabolic cycling in synchronized cultures increases with the biomass density, suggesting that this cycling  is an emergent behavior, resulting from the entraining of the single-cell metabolic cycle by a quorum-sensing mechanism, and thus underscoring the difference between metabolic cycling in single cells and in synchronized cultures. Measurements of constant levels of residual glucose across metabolically synchronized cultures indicate that storage carbohydrates are required to fuel not only the G1/S transition of the division cycle but also the metabolic cycle. Despite the large variation in profiled conditions and in the scale of their dynamics, most genes preserve invariant dynamics of coordination with each other and with the rate of oxygen consumption. Similarly, the G1/S transition always occurs at the beginning, middle or end of the high oxygen consumption phases, analogous to observations in human and drosophila cells. These results highlight evolutionary conserved coordination among metabolism, cell growth and division.', u'Cycles of mitochondrial fission and fission are essential for normal cell physiology. Defects in the machinery controlling these processes lead to neurodegenerative disease. While we are beginning to understand the machinery that drives fission, our knowledge of the spatial and temporal control of this event is lacking. Here we use a rapamycin-inducible heterodimerization system comprising both ER and mitochondrial transmembrane components to bring the ER membrane into close physical proximity with mitochondria. We show that this artificial apposition of membranes is sufficient to cause rapid mitochondrial fragmentation. Resulting mitochondrial fragments are shown to be distinct entities using fluorescence recovery after photobleaching. We also show that these fragments retain a mitochondrial membrane potential. In contrast, inducible tethering of the peripheral ER exit site protein TFG does not cause mitochondrial fragmentation suggesting that very close apposition of the two membranes is required.', u'Background and Objectives: Whole genome sequencing is becoming popular as a tool for understanding outbreaks of communicable diseases, with phylogenetic trees being used to iden- tify individual transmission events or to characterize outbreak-level overall transmission dynamics. Existing methods to infer transmission dynamics from sequence data rely on well-characterised infectious periods, epidemiological and clinical meta-data which may not always be available, and typically require computationally intensive analysis focusing on the branch lengths in phylogenetic trees. We sought to determine whether the topological structures of phylogenetic trees contain signatures of the transmission patterns underlying an outbreak.\nMethodology: We use simulated outbreaks to train and then test computational classifiers. We test the method on data from two real-world outbreaks.\nResults: We show that different transmission patterns result in quantitatively different phyloge- netic tree shapes. We describe topological features that summarize a phylogeny\x92s structure and find that computational classifiers based on these are capable of predicting an outbreak\x92s transmission dynamics. The method is robust to variations in the transmission parameters and network types, and recapitulates known epidemiology of previously characterized real-world outbreaks.\nConclusions: and implications There are simple structural properties of phylogenetic trees which, when combined, can distinguish communicable disease outbreaks with a super-spreader, homogeneous transmission, and chains of transmission. This is possible using genome data alone, and can be done during an outbreak. We discuss the implications for management of outbreaks.', u'Wheat is one of the most important crops in the world. With the exponentially increasing population and the need for ever increased food and feed production, an increased yield of wheat grain (as well as rice, maize and other grains) will be critical. Modern technologies are utilized to assist breeding programs. Such as the transcriptome sequencing, which greatly improves our genetic understanding, provides a platform for functional genomics research on crops. Herein, to get an overview of transcriptome characteristics of Yunong 3114, which is screened from the EMS mutagenized population of, a high quality Chinese winter noodle wheat, due to its different plant architecture as well as larger kernel size and higher grain weight, a high-throughput RNA sequencing based on next generation sequencing technology (Illumina) were performed. These unigenes were annotated by Blastx alignment against the NCBI non-redundant (nr), Clusters of orthologous groups (COG), gene orthology (GO), and the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genesand Genomes (KEGG) databases. The 90.96% of the unigenes matched with protein in the NCBI nr database. Functional analysis identified that changes in several GO categories, including recognition of pollen, apoptotic process, defense response, receptor activity, protein kinase activity, DNA integration and so forth, played crucial roles in the high-yield characteristics of the mutant. Real-time PCR analysis revealed that the recognition of pollen related gene GsSRK is significantly up-regulated in Yunong 3114. In addition, alternative splicing (AS) analysis results indicated that mutation influence AS ratio, especially the retained introns, including the pollen related genes. Furthermore, the digital gene expression spectrum (DGE) profiling data provides comprehensive information at the transcriptional level that facilitates our understanding of the molecular mechanisms of various physiological aspects including development and high-yield of wheat. Together, these studies substantially increase our knowledge of potential genes and pathways for the genetic improvement of wheat and provide new insights into the yield and breeding strategies.', u'DNA methylation (DNAm) plays an important role in epigenetic regulation of gene expression, orchestrating tissue differentiation and development during all stages of mammalian life. This epigenetic control is especially important in the human brain, with extremely dynamic gene expression during fetal and infant life, and becomes progressively more stable at later periods of development . We characterized the epigenetic state of the developing and aging human frontal cortex in post-mortem tissue from 351 individuals across the lifespan using the Illumina 450k DNA methylation microarray. The largest changes in the methylome occur at birth at varying spatial resolutions - we identify 359,087 differentially methylated loci, which form 23,732 significant differentially methylated regions (DMRs). There were also 298 regions of long-range changes in DNAm, termed "blocks", associated with birth that strongly overlap previously published colon cancer blocks. We then identify 55,439 DMRs associated with development and aging, of which 61.9% significantly associate with nearby gene expression levels. Lastly, we find enrichment of genomic loci of risk for schizophrenia and several other common diseases among these developmental DMRs. These data, integrated with existing genetic and transcriptomic data, create a rich genomic resource across brain development.', u'Austronesian languages are spread across half the globe, from Easter Island to Madagascar.  Evidence from linguistics and archaeology indicates that the "Austronesian expansion," which began 4-5 thousand years ago, likely had roots in Taiwan, but the ancestry of present-day Austronesian-speaking populations remains controversial.  Here, focusing primarily on Island Southeast Asia, we analyze genome-wide data from 56 populations using new methods for tracing ancestral gene flow.  We show that all sampled Austronesian groups harbor ancestry that is more closely related to aboriginal Taiwanese than to any present-day mainland population.  Surprisingly, western Island Southeast Asian populations have also inherited ancestry from a source nested within the variation of present-day populations speaking Austro-Asiatic languages, which have historically been nearly exclusive to the mainland.  Thus, either there was once a substantial Austro-Asiatic presence in Island Southeast Asia, or Austronesian speakers migrated to and through the mainland, admixing there before continuing to western Indonesia.', u'Background: Population differentiation has proved to be effective for identifying loci under geographically-localized positive selection, and has the potential to identify loci subject to balancing selection. We have previously investigated the pattern of genetic differentiation among human populations at 36.8 million genomic variants to identify sites in the genome showing high frequency differences. Here, we extend this dataset to include additional variants, survey sites with low levels of differentiation, and evaluate the extent to which highly differentiated sites are likely to result from selective or other processes. \nResults:  We demonstrate that while sites of low differentiation represent sampling effects rather than balancing selection, sites showing extremely high population differentiation are enriched for positive selection events and that one half may be the result of classic selective sweeps.  Among these, we rediscover known examples, where we actually identify the established functional SNP, and discover novel examples including the genes ABCA12, CALD1 and ZNF804, which we speculate may be linked to adaptations in skin, calcium metabolism and defense, respectively. \nConclusions: We have identified known and many novel candidate regions for geographically restricted positive selection, and suggest several directions for further research.', u'The validity of fatigue protocols involving multi-joint movements, such as stepping, has yet to be clearly defined. Although surface electromyography can monitor the fatigue state of individual muscles, the effects of joint angle and velocity variation on signal parameters are well established. Therefore, the aims of this study were to i) describe sagittal hip and knee kinematics during repetitive stepping ii) identify periods of high inter-trial variability and iii) determine within-test reliability of hip and knee kinematic profiles. A group of healthy men (N = 15) ascended and descended from a knee-high platform wearing a weighted vest (10%BW) for 50 consecutive trials. The hip and knee underwent rapid flexion and extension during  step ascent and descent. Variability of hip and knee velocity peaked between 20-40% of the ascent phase and 80-100% of the descent. Significant (p<0.05) reductions in joint range of motion and peak velocity during step ascent were observed, while peak flexion velocity increased during descent. Healthy individuals use complex hip and knee motion to negotiate a knee-high step with kinematic patterns varying across multiple repetitions. These findings have important implications for future studies intending to use repetitive stepping as a fatigue model for the knee extensors and flexors.', u'Background\nRNAseq provides remarkable power in the area of biomarkers discovery and disease stratification. The main technical steps affecting the results of RNAseq experiments are Library Sample Preparation (LSP) and Bioinformatics Analysis (BA). At the best of our knowledge, a comparative evaluation of the combined effect of LSP and BA was never considered and it might represent a valuable knowledge to optimize alternative splicing detection, which is a challenging task due to moderate fold change differences to be detected within a complex isoforms background.\nResults\nDifferent LSPs (TruSeq unstranded/stranded, ScriptSeq, NuGEN) allow the detection of a large common set of isoforms. However, each LSP also detects a smaller set of isoforms, which are characterized both by lower coverage and lower FPKM than that observed for the common ones among LSPs. This characteristic is particularly critical in case of low input RNA NuGEN v2 LSP. \nThe effect on statistical detection of alternative splicing considering low input LSP (NuGEN v2) with respect to high input LSP (TruSeq) on statistical detection of alternative splicing was studied using a benchmark dataset, in which both synthetic reads and reads generated from high (TruSeq) and low input (NuGEN) LSPs were spiked-in. Statistical detection of alternative splicing (AltDE) was done using prototypes of BA for isoform-reconstruction (Cuffdiff) and exon-level analysis (DEXSeq). Exon-level analysis performs slightly better than isoform-reconstruction approach although at most only 50% of the spiked-in transcripts are detected. Both isoform-reconstruction and exon-level analysis performances improve by rising the number of input reads.\nConclusion\nData, derived from NuGEN v2, are not the ideal input for AltDE, specifically when exon-level approach is used. It is notable that ribosomal depletion, with respect to polyA+ selection, reduces the amount of coding mappable reads resulting detrimental in the case of AltDE. Furthermore, we observed that both isoform-reconstruction and exon-level analysis performances are strongly dependent on the number of input reads.', u'Abstract: Discovery of novel natural products is an accepted method for the elucidation of pharmacologically active molecules and drug leads. Best known sources for such discovery have been terrestrial plants and microbes, accounting for about 85% of the approved natural products in pharmaceutical use (1), and about 60% of approved pharmaceuticals and new drug applications annually (2). Discovery in the marine environment has lagged due to the difficulty of exploration in this ecological niche. Exploration began in earnest in the 1950\x92s, after technological advances such as scuba diving allowed collection of marine organisms, primarily at a depth to about 15m.\nNatural products from filter feeding marine invertebrates and in particular, sponges, have proven to be a rich source of structurally unique pharmacologically active compounds, with over 16,000 molecules isolated thus far (3, 1) and a continuing pace of discovery at hundreds of novel bioactive molecules per year. All classes of pharmaceuticals have been represented in this discovery process, including antiprotazoals, pesticides, TGF-beta inhibitors, cationic channel blockers, anticancer, cytotoxic, antiviral, anti-inflammatory and antibacterial compounds. Important biosynthetic pathways found in sponges which give rise to these compounds include the terpenoid (4), fatty acid, polyketoid, quinone reductase, alkaloid, isoprenoid (5), and non-ribosomal protein synthase pathways.\nKeywords: natural products; marine sponges; drug discovery; terpenoids; carotenoids; polyketides; marine drug discovery', u'The availability of complete human genome sequences from populations across the world has given rise to new population genetic inference methods that explicitly model their ancestral relationship under recombination and mutation. So far, application of these methods to evolutionary history more recent than 20-30 thousand years ago and to population separations has been limited. Here we present a new method that overcomes these shortcomings. The Multiple Sequentially Markovian Coalescent (MSMC) analyses the observed pattern of mutations in multiple individuals, focusing on the first coalescence between any two individuals. Results from applying MSMC to genome sequences from nine populations across the world suggest that the genetic separation of non-African ancestors from African Yoruban ancestors started long before 50,000 years ago, and give information about human population history as recently as 2,000 years ago, including the bottleneck in the peopling of the Americas, and separations within Africa, East Asia and Europe.', u'Multi-trait mixed models have emerged as a promising approach for joint analyses of multiple traits.\nIn principle, the mixed model framework is remarkably general.\nHowever, current methods implement only a very specific range of tasks to optimize the necessary computations.\nHere, we present a multi-trait modeling framework that is versatile and fast:\nLIMIX enables to flexibly adapt mixed models for a broad range of applications with different observed and hidden covariates, and variable study designs.\nTo highlight the novel modeling aspects of LIMIX we performed three vastly different genetic studies: joint GWAS of correlated blood lipid phenotypes, joint analysis of the expression levels of the multiple transcript-isoforms of a gene, and pathway-based modeling of molecular traits across environments.\nIn these applications we show that LIMIX increases GWAS power and phenotype prediction accuracy, in particular when integrating stepwise multi-locus regression into multi-trait models, and when analyzing large numbers of traits.\nAn open source implementation of LIMIX is freely available at: https://github.com/PMBio/limix.', u'MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are predominantly negative regulators of gene expression that act through the RNA-induced Silencing Complex (RISC) to suppress the translation of protein coding mRNAs. Despite intense study of these regulatory molecules, the specific molecular functions of most miRNAs remain unknown, largely due to the challenge of accurately identifying miRNA targets. Reporter gene assays can determine direct interactions, but are laborious and do not scale to genome-wide screens. Genomic scale methods such as HITS-CLIP do not preserve the direct interactions, and rely on computationally derived predictions of interactions that are plagued by high false positive rates. Here we describe a protocol for the isolation of direct targets of a mature miRNA, using synthetic biotinylated miRNA duplexes. This approach allows sensitive and specific detection of miRNA-mRNA interactions, isolating high quality mRNA suitable for analysis by microarray or RNAseq.', u'Clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeat (CRISPR) RNA-guided nucleases have gathered considerable excitement as a tool for genome engineering. However, questions remain about the specificity of their target site recognition. Most previous studies have examined predicted off-target binding sites that differ from the perfect target site by one to four mismatches, which represent only a subset of genomic regions. Here, we use ChIP-seq to examine genome-wide CRISPR binding specificity at gRNA-specific and gRNA-independent sites. For two guide RNAs targeting the murine Snurf gene promoter, we observed very high binding specificity at the intended target site while off-target binding was observed at 2- to 6-fold lower intensities. We also identified significant gRNA-independent off-target binding. Interestingly, we found that these regions are highly enriched in the PAM site, a sequence required for target site recognition by CRISPR. To determine the relationship between Cas9 binding and endonuclease activity, we used targeted sequence capture as a high-throughput approach to survey a large number of the potential off-target sites identified by ChIP-seq or computational prediction. A high frequency of indels was observed at both target sites and one off-target site, while no cleavage activity could be detected at other ChIP-bound regions. Our data is consistent with recent finding that most interactions between the CRISPR nuclease complex and genomic PAM sites are transient and do not lead to DNA cleavage. The interactions are stabilized by gRNAs with good matches to the target sequence adjacent to the PAM site, resulting in target cleavage activity.', u"Background: Efficient industrial processes for converting plant lignocellulosic materials into biofuels are a key challenge in global efforts to use alternative energy sources to fossil fuels. Novel cellulolytic enzymes have been discovered from microbial genomes and metagenomes of microbial communities. However, the identification of relevant genes without known homologs, and elucidation of the lignocellulolytic pathways and protein complexes for different microorganisms remain a challenge.\n \nResults: We describe a new computational method for the targeted discovery of functional modules of plant biomass-degrading protein families based on their co-occurrence patterns across genomes and metagenome datasets, and the strength of association of these modules with the genomes of known degraders. From more than 6.4 million family annotations for 2884 microbial genomes and 332 taxonomic bins from 18 metagenomes, we identified five functional modules that are distinctive for plant biomass degraders, which we call plant biomass degradation modules (PDMs). These modules incorporated protein families involved in the degradation of cellulose, hemicelluloses and pectins, structural components of the cellulosome and additional families with potential functions in plant biomass degradation. The PDMs could be linked to 81 gene clusters in genomes of known lignocellulose degraders, including previously described clusters of lignocellulolytic genes. On average, 70% of the families of each PDM mapped to gene clusters in known degraders, which served as an additional confirmation of their functional relationships. The presence of a PDM in a genome or taxonomic metagenome bin allowed us to predict an organism's ability for plant biomass degradation accurately. For 15 draft genomes of a cow rumen metagenome, we validated by cross-linking with confirmed cellulolytic enzymes that the PDMs identified plant biomass degraders within a complex microbial community.\n\nConclusions: Functional modules of protein families that realize different aspects of plant cell wall degradation can be inferred from co-occurrence patterns across (meta-)genomes with a probabilistic topic model. The PDMs represent a new resource of protein families and candidate genes implicated in microbial plant biomass degradation. They can be used to predict the ability to degrade plant biomass for a genome or taxonomic bin. The method would also be suitable for characterizing other microbial phenotypes.", u'Population genetic studies suggest that most amino-acid changing mutations are deleterious. Such mutations are of tremendous interest in human population genetics as they are important for the evolutionary process and may contribute risk to common disease. Genomic studies over the past 5 years have documented differences across populations in the number of heterozygous deleterious genotypes, numbers of homozygous derived deleterious genotypes, number of deleterious segregating sites and proportion of sites that are potentially deleterious. These differences have been attributed to population history affecting the ability of natural selection to remove deleterious variants from the population. However, recent studies have suggested that the genetic load may not differ across populations, and that the efficacy of natural selection has not differed across human populations. Here I show that these observations are not incompatible with each other and that the apparent differences are due to examining different features of the genetic data and differing definitions of terms.', u'Emerging data suggest different activating Ras mutants may have different biological behaviors. The most striking example may be in colon cancer, where activating KRAS mutations generally indicate a lack of benefit to treatment with EGFR inhibitors, although the activating KRAS G13D mutation appears to be an exception. As KRAS G13D generally shares the same biochemical defects as the other oncogenic KRAS mutants, a mechanism for differential sensitivity is not apparent. Here, a previously developed mathematical model of Ras mutant signaling is used to investigate this problem. The purpose of the analysis is to determine whether differential response is consistent with known mechanisms of Ras signaling, and to determine if any known features of Ras mutants provide an explanation for differential sensitivity. Computational analysis of the mathematical model finds that differential response to upstream inhibition between cancers with different Ras mutants is indeed consistent with known mechanisms of Ras biology. Moreover, model analysis demonstrates that the subtle biochemical differences between G13D and G12D (and G12V) mutants are sufficient to enable differential response to upstream inhibition. Simulations suggest that wild-type Ras within the G13D mutant context is more effectively inhibited by upstream inhibitors than when it is in the G12D or G12V contexts.  This difference is a consequence of an elevated Km for the G13D mutant. The identification of a single parameter that influences sensitivity is significant in that it suggests an approach to evaluate other, less common, Ras mutations for their anticipated response to upstream inhibition.', u'Background\nRNA sequencing (RNA-seq) is a powerful technique for identifying and quantifying transcription and splicing events, both known and novel. However, given its recent development and the proliferation of library construction methods, understanding the bias it introduces is incomplete but critical to realizing its value.\n\nResults\nHere we present a method, in vitro transcription sequencing (IVT-seq), for identifying and assessing the technical biases in RNA-seq library generation and sequencing at scale. We created a pool of > 1000 in vitro transcribed (IVT) RNAs from a full-length human cDNA library and sequenced them with poly-A and total RNA-seq, the most common protocols. Because each cDNA is full length and we show IVT is incredibly processive, each base in each transcript should be equivalently represented. However, with common RNA-seq applications and platforms, we find ~50% of transcripts have > 2-fold and ~10% have > 10-fold differences in within-transcript sequence coverage. Strikingly, we also find > 6% of transcripts have regions of high, unpredictable sequencing coverage, where the same transcript varies dramatically in coverage between samples, confounding accurate determination of their expression. To get at causal factors, we used a combination of experimental and computational approaches to show that rRNA depletion is responsible for the most significant variability in coverage and that several sequence determinants also strongly influence representation.\n\nConclusions\nIn sum, these results show the utility of IVT-seq in promoting better understanding of bias introduced by RNA-seq and suggest caution in its interpretation. Furthermore, we find that rRNA-depletion is responsible for substantial, unappreciated biases in coverage. Perhaps most importantly, these coverage biases introduced during library preparation suggest exon level expression analysis may be inadvisable.', u'Evolutionary theory is sufficiently well developed to allow for short-term prediction of evolutionary trajectories. In addition to the presence of heritable variation, prediction requires knowledge of the form of natural selection on relevant traits. While many studies estimate the form of natural selection, few examine the degree to which traits evolve in the predicted direction. In this study we examine the form of natural selection imposed by mantid predation on wing size and shape in the fruitfly, Drosophila melanogaster. We then evolve populations of D. melanogaster under predation pressure, and examine the extent to which wing size and shape have responded in the predicted direction. We demonstrate that wing form partially evolves along the predicted vector from selection, more so than for control lineages. Furthermore, we re-examined phenotypic selection after ~30 generations of experimental evolution. We observed that the magnitude of selection on wing size and shape was diminished in populations evolving with mantid predators, while the direction of the selection vector differed from that of the ancestral population for shape. We discuss these findings in the context of the predictability of evolutionary responses, and the need for fully multivariate approaches.', u'Genetically encoded fluorescent proteins and immunostainings are widely used to detect cellular or sub-cellular structures in thick biological samples. However, each approach suffers from limitations, including low signal and limited spectral flexibility or slow speed, poor penetration and high background, respectively. Here we overcome these limitations by using transgenically expressed chemical tags for rapid, even and low-background labeling of thick biological tissues. We construct a platform of widely applicable transgenic Drosophila reporter lines, demonstrating that chemical labeling can accelerate staining of whole-mount fly brains by a factor of 100x. Together, this tag-based approach drastically improves the speed and specificity of labeling genetically marked cells in intact and/or thick biological samples.', u'Summary: RNA-Seq has become a potent and widely used method to qualitatively and quantitatively study transcriptomes. In order to draw biological conclusions based on RNA-Seq data, several steps some of which are computationally intensive, have to betaken. Our READemption pipeline takes care of these individual tasks and integrates them into an easy-to-use tool with a command line interface. To leverage the full power of modern computers, most subcommands of READemption offer parallel data processing. While READemption was mainly developed for the analysis of bacterial primary transcriptomes, we have successfully applied it to analyze RNA-Seq reads from other sample types, including whole transcriptomes, RNA immunoprecipitated with proteins, not only from bacteria, but also from eukaryotes and archaea.\nAvailability and Implementation: READemption is implemented in Python and is published under the ISC open source license. The tool and documentation is hosted at http://pythonhosted.org/READemption (DOI:10.6084/m9.figshare.977849).', u'Human culture is widely believed to undergo evolution, via mechanisms rooted in the nature of human cognition. A number of theories predict the kinds of human learning strategies, as well as the population dynamics that result from their action. There is little work, however, that quantitatively examines the evidence for these strategies and resulting cultural evolution within human populations. One of the obstacles is the lack of individual-level data with which to link transmission events to larger cultural dynamics. Here, we address this problem with a rich quantitative database from the East Asian board game known as Go. We draw from a large archive of Go games spanning the last six decades of professional play, and find evidence that the evolutionary dynamics of particular cultural variants are driven by a mix of individual and social learning processes.  Particular players vary dramatically in their sensitivity to population knowledge, which also varies by age and nationality.  The dynamic patterns of opening Go moves are consistent with an ancient, ongoing arms race within the game itself.', u'Dissociated mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells were cultured to form aggregates in small volumes of basal medium in U-bottomed, non tissue-culture-treated 96-well plates and subsequently maintained in suspension culture. After growth for 48 hours, the aggregates are competent to respond to ubiquitous experimental signals which result in their symmetry-breaking and generation of defined polarised structures by 96 hours. It is envisaged that this system can be applied both to the study of early developmental events and more broadly to the processes of self-organisation and cellular decision-making. It may also provide a suitable niche for the generation of cell types present in the embryo but unobtainable from conventional adherent culture.', u'Raw high-throughput sequence data are deposited in public databases as SRAs (Sequence Read Archives) and are publically available to every researcher. However, in order to graphically visualize the sequence data of interest, the corresponding SRAs must be downloaded and converted into BigWig format through complicated command-line processing. This task requires users to possess skill with script languages and sequence data processing, a requirement that prevents a wide range of biologists from exploiting SRAs. To address these challenges, we developed SraTailor, a GUI (Graphical User Interface) software package that automatically converts an SRA into a BigWig-formatted file. Simplicity of use is one of the most notable features of SraTailor: entering an accession number of an SRA and clicking the mouse are the only steps required in order to obtain BigWig-formatted files and to graphically visualize the extents of reads at given loci. SraTailor is also able to make peak calls and files of other formats, and the software also accepts various command-line-like options. Therefore, this software makes SRAs fully exploitable by a wide range of biologists. SraTailor is freely available at http://www.dev.med.kyushu-u.ac.jp/sra_tailor/.', u'A mechanism of innate antiviral immunity operating against viruses infecting mammalian cells has been described during the last decade.  Host cytidine deaminases (e.g., APOBEC3 proteins) edit viral genomes giving raise to hypermutated nonfunctional viruses; consequently, viral fitness is reduced through lethal mutagenesis.  By contrast, sub-lethal hypermutagenesis may contribute to virus evolvability by increasing population diversity.  To prevent genome editing, some viruses have evolved proteins that mediate APOBEC3 degradation.  The model plant Arabidopsis thaliana encodes for nine cytidine deaminases (AtCDAs), raising the question of whether deamination is an antiviral mechanism in plants as well.  Here we tested the effects of AtCDAs expression on the pararetrovirus Cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV).  We show that A. thaliana AtCDA1 gene product exerts a mutagenic activity, which indeed generates a negative correlation between the level of AtCDA1 expression and CaMV accumulation in the plant, suggesting that deamination may also work as an antiviral mechanism in plants.', u'The \u03b2-lactamase produces by Aeromonas hydrophila which enables to hydrolyze and inactivate \u03b2-lactam ring of antibiotics. The homology modeling was used to generate the 3-D model of \u03b2-lactamase by using known template 3-D structure. The stereochemical quality and torsion angle of 3-D model were validated. Total eleven effective drugs have been selected and targeted the active amino acid residues in \u03b2-lactamase. The drugs were derivative of \u03b2-lactam ring antibiotics and screening was made by docking. Out of 11 drugs, 3 drugs (Ampicillin, Astreonam and Sultamicillin) were found to be more potent on the basis of robust binding energy between protein-drug interactions. Additionally, homology of \u03b2-lactamase of A. hydrophila resembled with other pathogenic bacteria that used for phylogeny analysis. These findings suggest a new insight for better understanding and useful for designing of novel potent drugs.', u'Summary: Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified thousands of human trait-associated single nucleotide polymorphisms. Here, I describe a freely available R package for visualizing GWAS results using Q-Q and manhattan plots. The qqman package enables the flexible creation of manhattan plots, both genome-wide and for single chromosomes, with optional highlighting of SNPs of interest.\n\nAvailability: qqman is released under the GNU General Public License, and is freely available on the Comprehensive R Archive Network (http://cran.r-project.org/package=qqman). The source code is available on GitHub (https://github.com/stephenturner/qqman).', u'Structural variation in the genome is common due to insertions, deletions, duplications and rearrangements. However, little is known about the ways structural variants impact gene expression. Developmental genes are controlled by multiple regulatory sequence elements scattered over thousands of bases; developmental loci are therefore a good model to test the functional impact of structural variation on gene expression. Here, we measured the effect of rearranging two developmental enhancers from the even-skipped (eve) locus in Drosophila melanogaster blastoderm embryos. We systematically varied orientation, order, and spacing of the enhancers in transgenic reporter constructs and measured expression quantitatively at single cell resolution in whole embryos to detect changes in both level and position of expression. We found that the position of expression was robust to changes in locus organization, but levels of expression were highly sensitive to the spacing between enhancers and order relative to the promoter. Our data demonstrate that changes in locus architecture can dramatically impact levels of gene expression. To quantitatively predict gene expression from sequence, we must therefore consider how information is integrated both within enhancers and across gene loci.', u'Gene Ontology (GO) classification of statistically significant over/under expressed genes is a commonly used to interpret transcriptomics data in functional genomic analysis. In this approach, all significant genes contribute equally to the final GO classification regardless of their actual expression levels. However, the original level of gene expression can significantly affect protein production and consequently GO term enrichment, and genes with low expression levels can participate in the final GO enrichment through cumulative effects.  In addition, GO terms have regulatory relationships that allow the construction of a regulatory network that incorporates gene expression levels to better study biological mechanisms. In this report, we have used gene expression levels in bacteria to determine GO term enrichments. This approach provided the opportunity to enrich GO terms across the entire transcriptome (instead of a subset of differentially expressed genes). In the second part, we show a dynamically developed enriched interaction network between Biological Process GO terms for any gene samples. This type of network presents regulatory relationships between GO terms and their genes. We then demonstrate the efficiency of these methods using public data from two important bacterial pathogens as models. We also explain how these methods help us understand potential pathogenesis mechanisms employed by these bacteria.', u'Motivation: Efficient simulation of population genetic samples\nunder a given demographic model is a prerequisite for many\nanalyses. Coalescent theory provides an efficient framework for such\nsimulations, but simulating longer regions and higher recombination\nrates remains challenging. Simulators based on a Markovian\napproximation to the coalescent scale well, but do not support\nsimulation of selection. Gene conversion is not supported by any\npublished coalescent simulators that support selection.\nResults: We describe cosi2 , an efficient simulator that supports both\nexact and approximate coalescent simulation with positive selection.\ncosi2 improves on the speed of existing exact simulators, and permits\nfurther speedup in approximate mode while retaining support for\nselection. cosi2 supports a wide range of demographic scenarios\nincluding recombination hot spots, gene conversion, population size\nchanges, population structure and migration.\ncosi2 implements coalescent machinery efficiently by tracking only\na small subset of the Ancestral Recombination Graph, sampling\nonly relevant recombination events, and using augmented skip\nlists to represent tracked genetic segments. To preserve support\nfor selection in approximate mode, the Markov approximation is\nimplemented not by moving along the chromosome but by performing\na standard backwards-in-time coalescent simulation while restricting\ncoalescence to node pairs with overlapping or near-overlapping\ngenetic material. We describe the algorithms used by cosi2 and\npresent comparisons with existing selection simulators.', u'In sexually reproducing species the union of gametes that are not closely related can result in genomic incompatibility. Hybrid dysgenic syndromes represent a form of genomic incompatibility that can arise when transposable element (TE) abundance differs between two parents. When TEs lacking in the female parent are transmitted paternally, a lack of corresponding silencing small RNAs (piRNAs) transmitted through the female germline can lead to TE mobilization in progeny. The epigenetic nature of this phenomenon is demonstrated by the fact that genetically identical females of the reciprocal cross are normal. Here we show that in the hybrid dysgenic syndrome of Drosophila virilis, an excess of paternally inherited TE families leads not only to increased expression of these TEs, but also coincides with derepression of TEs in equal abundance within parents. Moreover, TE derepression is stable as flies age and associated with piRNA biogenesis defects for only some TEs. At the same time, TE activation is associated with a genome wide shift in the distribution of endogenous gene expression and an increase in abundance of off-target genic piRNAs. To identify regions of the maternal genome that most protect against dysgenesis, we performed an F3 backcross analysis. We find that pericentric regions play a dominant role in maternal protection. This F3 backcross approach additionally allowed us to clarify the properties of genic paramutation in D. virilis. Overall, results support a model in which early germline events in dysgenesis establish a chronic, stable state of mis-expression that is maintained through adulthood. Such early events in the germline that are mediated by parent-of-origin effects may be important in determining patterns of gene expression in natural populations.', u'CRISPR/Cas9 systems enable many molecular activities to be efficiently directed in vivo to user-specifiable DNA sequences of interest, including generation of dsDNA cuts and nicks, transcriptional activation and repression, and fluorescence.  CRISPR targeting relies on base pairing of short RNA transcripts with their target DNA sequences that must also be adjacent to fixed DNA motifs.   However, rules for Cas9 targeting specificity are incompletely known.  With increasing numbers of Cas9 systems being developed and deployed in more and more organisms, there is now strong need for a flexible and rational method for finding Cas9 sites with low off-targeting potential.  We address this through the CasFinder system, which we demonstrate by generating human and mouse exome-wide catalogs of specific sites for three varieties of Cas9 - S. pyogenes, S. thermophilus (ST1), and N. meningitidis - that each target 56-74% of all exons.  We also generate reduced sets of up to 3 targets per gene for use in high-throughput Cas9-based gene knockout screens that target 75-80% of all genes.', u"Populations of hippocampal place cells encode an animal's past, current and future location through sequences of action potentials generated within each cycle of the network theta rhythm. These sequential representations have been suggested to result from temporally coordinated synaptic interactions within and between cell assemblies. In contrast, we show that a model based on rate and phase coding in independent neurons is sufficient to explain the organization of CA1 population activity during theta states. We show that CA1 population activity can be described as an evolving traveling wave that exhibits phase coding, rate coding, spike sequences and that generates an emergent population theta rhythm. We identify measures of global remapping and intracellular theta dynamics as critical for distinguishing mechanisms for pacemaking and coordination of sequential population activity. Our analysis suggests that independent coding enables flexible generation of sequential population activity within the duration of a single theta cycle.", u'Centromere repeats are found in most eukaryotes and play a critical role in kinetochore formation. Though CentC repeats exhibit considerable diversity both within and among species, little is understood about the mechanisms that drive cen- tromere repeat evolution. Here, we use maize as a model to investigate how a complex history involving polyploidy, fractionation, and recent domestication has impacted the diversity of the maize CentC repeat. We first validate the existence of long tan- dem arrays of repeats in maize and other taxa in the genus Zea. Although we find considerable sequence diversity among CentC copies genome-wide, genetic similar- ity among repeats is highest within these arrays, suggesting that tandem duplica- tions are the primary mechanism for the generation of new copies. Genetic clustering analyses identify similar sequences among distant repeats, and simulations suggest that this pattern may be due to homoplasious mutation. Although the two ancestral subgenomes of maize have contributed nearly equal numbers of centromeres, our analysis shows that the vast majority of all CentC repeats derive from one of the parental genomes. Finally, by comparing maize with its wild progenitor teosinte, we find that the abundance of CentC has decreased through domestication while the peri- centromeric repeat Cent4 has drastically increased.', u'A module is a group of closely related proteins that act in concert to perform specific biological functions through protein?protein interactions (PPIs) that occur in time and space. However, the underlying organizational principles of a module remain unclear. In this study, we collected CORUM module templates to infer respective module families, including 58,041 homologous modules in 1,678 species, and PPI families using searches of complete genomic database. We then derived PPI evolution scores (PPIES) and interface evolution scores (IES) to infer module elements, including core and ring components. Functions of core components were highly correlated (Pearson?s r = 0.98) with those of 11,384 essential genes. In comparison with ring components, core proteins and PPIs were conserved in multiple species. Subsequently, protein dynamics and module dynamics of biological networks and functional diversities confirmed that core components form dynamic biological network hubs and play key roles in various biological functions. PPIES and IES can reflect module organization principles and protein/module dynamics in biological networks. On the basis of the analyses of gene essentiality, module dynamics, network topology, and gene co-expression, the module organizational principles can be described as follows: 1) a module consists of core and ring components; 2) the core components play major roles in biological functions and collaborate with ring components to perform certain functions in some cases; 3) the core components are conserved and essential in module dynamics in time and space.', u'The constant removal of deleterious mutations by natural selection causes a reduction in neutral diversity and efficacy of selection at genetically linked sites (a process called Background Selection, BGS). Population genetic studies, however, often ignore BGS effects when investigating demographic events or the presence of other types of selection. To obtain a more realistic evolutionary expectation that incorporates the unavoidable consequences of deleterious mutations, we generated high-resolution landscapes of variation across the Drosophila melanogaster genome under a BGS scenario independent of polymorphism data. We find that BGS plays a significant role in shaping levels of variation across the entire genome, including long introns and intergenic regions distant from annotated genes. We also find that a very large percentage of the observed variation in diversity across autosomes can be explained by BGS alone, up to 70% across individual chromosome arms, thus indicating that BGS predictions can be used as baseline to infer additional types of selection and demographic events. This approach allows detecting several outlier regions with signal of recent adaptive events and selective sweeps. The use of a BGS baseline, however, is particularly appropriate to investigate the presence of balancing selection and our study exposes numerous genomic regions with the predicted signature of higher polymorphism than expected when a BGS context is taken into account. Importantly, we show that these conclusions are robust to the mutation and selection parameters of the BGS model. Finally, analyses of protein evolution together with previous comparisons of genetic maps between Drosophila species, suggest temporally variable recombination landscapes and thus, local BGS effects that may differ between extant and past phases. Because genome-wide BGS and temporal changes in linkage effects can skew approaches to estimate demographic and selective events, future analyses should incorporate BGS predictions and capture local recombination variation across genomes and along lineages.', u'Many patterns observed in ecology, such as species richness, life history variation, habitat use, and distribution have physiological underpinnings For many ectothermic organisms temperature relations shape these patterns, but for terrestrial amphibians, water balance may supersede temperature as the most critical physiologically-limiting factor. Many amphibian species have little resistance to water loss, which restricts them to moist microhabitats and may significantly affect foraging, dispersal, and courtship. Using plaster models as surrogates for terrestrial plethodontid salamanders, we measured water loss under ecologically-relevant field conditions to estimate the duration of surface activity time across the landscape. Surface activity time was significantly affected by topography, solar exposure, canopy cover, maximum air temperature, and time since rain. Spatially, surface activity times were highest in ravine habitats and lowest on ridges. Surface activity time was a significant predictor of salamander abundance, as well as a predictor of successful recruitment; the probability of a juvenile salamander occupying an area with high surface activity time was two times greater than an area with limited predicted surface activity. Our results suggest that survival, recruitment, or both are demographic processes that are affected by water loss and the ability of salamanders to be surface active. Results from our study extend our understanding of plethodontid salamander ecology, emphasize the limitations imposed by their unique physiology, and highlight the importance of water loss to spatial population dynamics. These findings are timely to understanding the effects that fluctuating temperature and moisture conditions predicted for future climates will have on plethodontid salamanders.', u'The avian bacterial pathogen Mycoplasma gallisepticum is a good model for transcriptional regulation studies due to its small genome and relative simplicity. In this study, we used RNA-Seq experiments combined with MS-based proteomics to accurately map coding sequences (CDSs), transcription start sites (TSSs) and transcription terminators (TTs) and to decipher their roles in stress-induced transcriptional responses. We identified 1061 TSSs at an FDR (false discovery rate) of 10% and showed that almost all transcription in M. gallisepticum is initiated from classic TATAAT promoters, which are surrounded by A/T-rich sequences and rarely accompanied by a -35 element. Our analysis revealed the pronounced complexity of the operon structure: on average, each coding operon has one internal TSS and TT in addition to the primary ones. Our new transcriptomic approach based on the intervals between the two closest transcription initiators and/or terminators allowed us to identify two classes of TTs: strong, unregulated and hairpin-containing TTs and weak, heat shock-regulated and hairpinless TTs. Comparing the gene expression levels under different conditions (such as heat, osmotic and peroxide stresses) revealed widespread and divergent transcription regulation in M. gallisepticum. Modeling suggested that the structure of the core promoter plays a major role in gene expression regulation. We have shown that the heat stress activation of cryptic promoters combined with the suppression of hairpinless TTs leads to widespread, seemingly non-functional transcription.', u'Background. The acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cell line OCI-AML3, carrying both NPM1 mutation A and the heterozygous DNMT3A R882C mutation, represents the model for in vitro studies on AML with mutated NPM1. AML with mutated NPM1 harbours a hypo-methylated profile distinct from those of the other AML subtypes. This characteristic is probably related to the inhibitory effect of the mutant DNMT3A on the wild type protein. S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) is a universal methyl donor acting as a coenzyme of DNMT3A. There are growing evidences of the antineoplastic effect of SAM in vitro and in murine models of gastric cancer, colon cancer and hepatocellular carcinoma, where SAM induces the downregulation of several oncogenes. Moreover SAM upregulates the expression of DNMT enzymes in lung cancer cells. In our knowledge there are no published data exploring the effect of SAM on the growth of OCI-AML3 cells and its ability to modulate DNMT3A activity in this cell line.\nStudy design and methods. The present data have been generated between August 2013 and April 2014 at the VITROSCREEN facilities in Milan, ITALY.  We used a 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-dephenyl tetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay to assess the cytotoxic effect of SAM iodide (Sigma-Aldrich) on OCI-AML3 cells (DSMZ Leibniz Institut). We analyzed then the ability of SAM to induce apoptosis by Tali Image-Based Cytometer (green Annexin V - Alexa Fluor 488 for apoptotic cells, red propidium and green Annexin V-Alexa Fluor 488 for necrotic cells). \nResults. The MTT assays were performed after having treated the OCI-AML3 cells with various concentrations of the indicated drug for 24 hours. We observed no significant effects on cells viability using 0.5\u03bcM, 10 \u03bcM and 100 \u03bcM of SAM (data not shown). In contrast, a dose dependent cytotoxic effect of SAM on OCI-AML3 cells was evident for concentrations equal or superior to 500 \u03bcM, with an IC50 of 500 \u03bcM. Since a Cmax of 211(SD 94)\u03bcM after single intravenous infusion of SAM was previously reported in healthy voluntarees, we decided to investigate the cytotoxic effect of SAM for concentrations close to 211 \u03bcM using the MTT test. A significant dose dependent reduction of the cells viability was observed with SAM 200\u03bcM (62,74% viable cells) and SAM 300\u03bcM (53.32% viable cells). The Apoptosis assay after 24 hours of treatment with SAM showed no differences in the percentages of apoptotic cells between the OCI-AML3 cells treated with SAM 300,500,2500\u03bcM and the untreated cells. After 72 hours, only a minimal effect on the amount of apoptotic cells was obtained, while a clear dose dependent increase in the proportion of dead cells was noted, confirming the results of the aforementioned MTT tests.\nConclusions. SAM showed remarkable in vitro cytotoxic activity on OCI-AML3 cells at concentrations similar to those achievable in humans after intravenous administration. SAM is not able to induce apoptosis of OCI-AML3 cells in vitro after 72 hours of treatment. However, the increase in the amount of dead cells after SAM treatment may be due to mechanisms other than apoptosis. In order to verify if the observed cytotoxicity was mediated by the enzymatic activity of DNMT3A, we planned to repeat the cytotoxicity assays after DNMT3A silencing. The in vivo antineoplastic effect of SAM could be assessed in NOD/SCID mice engrafted with OCI-AML3 cells.', u'Habitat fragmentation is a major driver of environmental change affecting wildlife populations across multiple levels of biological diversity. Much of the recent research in landscape genetics has focused on quantifying the influence of fragmentation on genetic variation among populations, but questions remain as to how habitat loss and configuration influences within-population genetic diversity. Habitat loss and fragmentation might lead to decreases in genetic diversity within populations, which might have implications for population persistence over multiple generations. We used genetic data collected from populations of three species occupying forested landscapes across a broad geographic region: Mountain Chickadee (Poecile gambeli; 22 populations), White-breasted Nuthatch (Sitta carolinensis; 13 populations) and Pygmy Nuthatch (Sitta pygmaea; 19 populations) to quantify patterns of haplotype and nucleotide diversity across a range of forest fragmentation. We predicted that fragmentation effects on genetic diversity would vary depending on dispersal capabilities and habitat specificity of the species. Forest aggregation and the variability in forest patch area were the two strongest landscape predictors of genetic diversity. We found higher haplotype diversity in populations of P. gambeli and S. carolinensis inhabiting landscapes characterized by lower levels of forest fragmentation. Conversely, S. pygmaea demonstrated the opposite pattern of higher genetic diversity in fragmented landscapes. For two of the three species, we found support for the prediction that highly fragmented landscapes sustain genetically less diverse populations. We suggest, however, that future studies should focus on species of varying life-history traits inhabiting independent landscapes to better understand how habitat fragmentation influences within-population genetic diversity.', u'Signaling pathways enable cells to sense and respond to their environment. Many cellular signaling strategies are conserved from fungi to humans, yet their activity and phenotypic consequences can vary extensively among individuals within a species. A systematic assessment of the impact of naturally occurring genetic variation on signaling pathways remains to be conducted. In S. cerevisiae, both response and resistance to stressors that activate signaling pathways differ between diverse isolates. Here, we present a quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping approach that enables us to identify genetic variants underlying such phenotypic differences across the genetic and phenotypic diversity of S. cerevisiae. Using a Round-robin cross between twelve diverse strains, we determined the genetic architectures of phenotypes critically dependent on MAPK signaling cascades. Genetic variants identified fell within MAPK signaling networks themselves as well as other interconnected signaling pathways, illustrating how genetic variation can shape the phenotypic output of highly conserved signaling cascades.', u'1.\tGame theoretic models that seek to predict the most competitive strategy plants use for competition in soil are clear; they generally predict that over-proliferation of roots is the only evolutionarily stable strategy. However, empirical studies are equally clear that not all plants employ this strategy of over-proliferation of roots. Here, our goal was to develop and test an alternative non-game theoretic model that can be used to develop alternative hypotheses for plants that do not appear to play games. \n2.\tThe model is similar to previous models, but does not use a game theoretic optimization criterion. Instead, plants use only nutrient availability to select a root allocation strategy, ignoring neighbours. To test the model we compare root allocation and seed yield of plants grown either alone or with neighbours. \n3.\tThe model predicted plants that do not sense neighbours (or ignore neighbours) should allocate roots relative to resource availability following an ideal free distribution. This means that if a soil volume of quality R contains x roots, then a soil volume of quality R/n will contain x/n roots. The experimental data were consistent with this prediction. That is, plants grown with 1.2g of slow release fertilizer resources produced 0.043 g of roots, while plants grown with neighbours, or plants grown with half as much fertilizer produced half as much root mass (0.026g, and 0.24g respectively). Seed yield followed a similar pattern.\n4.\tThis model presents an alternative predictive framework for those plant species that do not seem to play a tragedy of the commons game for belowground competition. \n5.\tSynthesis: It remains unclear why some plants do not engage in belowground games for competition. Models suggest over-proliferation is an unbeatable evolutionary stable strategy, yet plants that do not play the game apparently coexist with plants that do. We suggest that a greater understanding of trade-offs among traits that are important for other biotic interactions (above-ground competition, enemy defence, mutualisms) will lead to a greater understanding of why some species over-proliferate roots when in competition but other species do not.', u'In developing embryos, gene regulatory networks canalize cells towards discrete terminal\nfates. We studied the behavior of the anterior-posterior segmentation network in Drosophila melanogaster embryos depleted of a key maternal input, bicoid (bcd), by building a cellular- resolution gene expression atlas containing measurements of 12 core patterning genes over 6 time points in early development. With this atlas, we determine the precise perturbation each cell experiences, relative to wild type, and observe how these cells assume cell fates in the perturbed embryo. The first zygotic layer of the network, consisting of the gap and terminal genes, is highly robust to perturbation: all combinations of transcription factor expression found in bcd depleted embryos were also found in wild type embryos, suggesting that no new cell fates were created even at this very early stage. All of the gap gene expression patterns in the trunk expand by different amounts, a feature that we were unable to explain using two simple models of the effect of bcd depletion. In the second layer of the network, depletion of bcd led to an excess of cells expressing both even skipped and fushi tarazu early in the blastoderm stage, but by gastrulation this overlap resolved into mutually exclusive stripes. Thus, following depletion of bcd, individual cells rapidly canalize towards normal cell fates in both layers of this gene regulatory network. Our gene expression atlas provides a high resolution picture of a classic perturbation and will enable further modeling of canalization in this transcriptional network.', u'DNA mutational events are increasingly being identified in autism spectrum disorder (ASD), but the potential additional role of dysregulation of the epigenome in the pathogenesis of the condition remains unclear.  The epigenome is of interest as a possible mediator of environmental effects during development, encoding a cellular memory reflected by altered function of progeny cells.  Advanced maternal age (AMA) is associated with an increased risk of having a child with ASD for reasons that are not understood.  To explore whether AMA involves covert aneuploidy or epigenetic dysregulation leading to ASD in the offspring, we tested an homogeneous ectodermal cell type from 47 individuals with ASD compared with 48 typically developing (TD) controls born to mothers of \u226535 years, using a quantitative genome-wide DNA methylation assay.  We show that DNA methylation patterns are dysregulated in ectodermal cells in these individuals, having accounted for confounding effects due to subject age, sex and ancestral haplotype.  We did not find mosaic aneuploidy or copy number variability to occur at differentially-methylated regions in these subjects.  Of note, the loci with distinctive DNA methylation were found at genes expressed in the brain and encoding protein products significantly enriched for interactions with those produced by known ASD-causing genes, representing a perturbation by epigenomic dysregulation of the same networks compromised by DNA mutational mechanisms.  The results indicate the presence of a mosaic subpopulation of epigenetically-dysregulated, ectodermally-derived cells in subjects with ASD.  The epigenetic dysregulation observed in these ASD subjects born to older mothers may be associated with aging parental gametes, environmental influences during embryogenesis or could be the consequence of mutations of the chromatin regulatory genes increasingly implicated in ASD.  The results indicate that epigenetic dysregulatory mechanisms may complement and interact with DNA mutations in the pathogenesis of the disorder.', u'Cancer develops after the acquisition of a collection of mutations that together create the \x91cancer phenotype\x92. How collections of mutations work together within a cell, and whether there is selection for certain combinations of mutations, are not well understood. Using a Ras signaling network mathematical model we tested potential synergistic combinations within the Ras network. Intriguingly, our modeling, including a \x93computational random mutagenesis\x94 approach, and subsequent experiments revealed that mutations of the tumor suppressor gene NF1 can amplify the effects of mutations in multiple other components of the Ras pathway, including weakly activating, noncanonical, Ras mutants.  Since conventional wisdom holds that mutations within the same pathway do not co-occur, it was surprising that modeling and experiments both suggested a functional benefit for co-occurring Ras pathway mutations. Furthermore, we analyzed >3900 sequenced cancer specimens from the Cancer Cell Line Encyclopedia (CCLE) and The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and we uncovered an increased rate of co-occurrence between mutations the model predicted could display synergy. Overall, these data suggest that selective combinations of Ras pathway mutations could serve the role of cancer \x93driver\x94. More generally, this work presents a mechanism by which the context created by one mutation influences the evolutionary trajectories of cancer development, and this work suggests that mutations that result in \x93network instability\x94 may promote cancer in a manner analogous to genomic instability.', u'A major assumption of brain-machine interface (BMI) research is that patients with disconnected neural pathways can still volitionally recall precise motor commands that could be decoded for naturalistic prosthetic control. However, the disconnected condition of these patients also blocks kinaesthetic feedback from the periphery, which has been shown to regulate centrally generated output responsible for accurate motor control. Here we tested how well motor commands are generated in the absence of kinaesthetic feedback by decoding hand movements from human scalp electroencephalography (EEG) in three conditions: unimpaired movement, imagined movement, and movement attempted during temporary disconnection of peripheral afferent and efferent nerves by ischemic nerve block. Our results suggest that the recall of cortical motor commands is impoverished in absence of kinaesthetic feedback, challenging the possibility of precise naturalistic cortical prosthetic control.', u'Visual cortical areas are thought to form a hierarchy and to subserve cognitive functions by interacting in both feedforward and feedback directions. While feedforward influences convey sensory signals, feedback influences modulate brain responses to a given sensory stimulus according to the current behavioural context. Many studies have demonstrated effects of feedback influences on feedforward driven responses and on behaviour. Also, anatomical projections in both directions have been identified. However, although these studies have revealed the anatomical paths and the neurophysiological consequences of influences in both directions, the neurophysiological mechanisms through which these influences are exerted remain largely elusive. Here we show that in the primate visual system, feedforward influences are carried by theta-band (~4 Hz) and gamma-band (~60-80 Hz) synchronization, and feedback influences by beta-band (~14-18 Hz) synchronization. These frequency-specific asymmetries in directed influences were revealed by simultaneous local field potential recordings from eight visual areas and an analysis of Granger-causal influences across all 28 pairs of areas. The asymmetries in directed influences correlated directly with asymmetries in anatomy and enabled us to build a visual cortical hierarchy from the influence asymmetries alone. Across different task periods, most areas stayed at their hierarchical position, whereas particularly frontal areas moved dynamically. Our results demonstrate that feedforward and feedback signalling use different frequency channels, which might subserve their differential communication requirements and lead to differential local consequences. The possibility to infer hierarchical relationships through functional data alone might make it possible to derive a cortical hierarchy in the living human brain.', u'Non-coding RNAs have been commanding increasingly greater attention in recent years as the few that have been functionalized to date play important roles in key cellular processes. Here we show that N-BLR, a ~900 bp non-coding RNA, modulates the epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition, increases colorectal cancer invasion, and functions as a migration enabler by affecting the expression of ZEB1 and E-cadherin. In patients with colorectal cancer, N-BLR expression associates with tumor stage and invasion potential. As N-BLR contains several instances of a category of DNA motifs known as pyknons, we also designed a custom-made array to investigate the possibility that other pyknon loci may be transcribed.  For several of the loci probed by the array we found that the corresponding pyknons are differentially expressed between cancer and normal tissue samples. Taken together the data suggest that a systematic study of other pyknon-containing non-coding RNAs like N-BLR may be warranted in the context of colorectal cancer.', u'This paper describes a novel system for automatic classification of images obtained from Anti-Nuclear Antibody (ANA) pathology tests on Human Epithelial type 2 (HEp-2) cells using the Indirect Immunofluorescence (IIF) protocol. The IIF protocol on HEp-2 cells has been the hallmark method to identify the presence of ANAs, due to its high sensitivity and the large range of antigens that can be detected. However, it suffers from numerous shortcomings, such as being subjective as well as time and labour intensive. Computer Aided Diagnostic (CAD) systems have been developed to address these problems, which automatically classify a HEp-2 cell image into one of its known patterns (eg. speckled, homogeneous). Most of the existing CAD systems use handpicked features to represent a HEp-2 cell image, which may only work in limited scenarios. We propose a novel automatic cell image classification method termed Cell Pyramid Matching (CPM),\nwhich is comprised of regional histograms of visual words coupled with the Multiple Kernel Learning framework. We present a study of several variations of generating histograms and show the efficacy of the system on two publicly available datasets: the ICPR HEp-2 cell classification contest dataset and the SNPHEp-2 dataset.', u'Activity in the theta frequency band (4-8 Hz) over medial prefrontal regions has been consistently implicated in top-down cognitive control processes, including recognizing and resolving response conflict. It remains an unanswered question whether these theta-band dynamics are a neural mechanism of cognitive control, or instead are epiphenomenal to the neural computational machinery but are useful indices of brain function. Here we addressed this question by attempting to boost conflict processing (or its EEG theta-band signatures) via pre-trial exogenous theta-band visual flicker. Although the flicker successfully entrained posterior brain networks, there were no effects of flicker on behavior or on EEG signatures of conflict processing. In this paper, we detail our attempts and discuss possible future directions for using exogenous flicker in the study of the role of endogenous brain oscillations in conflict processing.', u"A fundamental question in evolutionary biology is the relative importance of selection and genetic architecture in determining evolutionary rates. Adaptive evolution can be described by the multivariate breeders' equation (\u0394z = G\u03b2 ), which predicts evolutionary change for a suite of phenotypic traits (\u0394z  ) as a product of directional selection acting on them (\u03b2) and the genetic variance-covariance matrix for those traits (G). Despite being empirically challenging to estimate, there are enough published estimates of G and \u03b2 to allow for synthesis of general patterns across species. We use published estimates to test the hypotheses that there are systematic differences in the rate of evolution among trait types, and that these differences are in part due to genetic architecture. We find evidence that sexually selected traits exhibit faster rates of evolution compared to life-history or morphological traits. This difference does not appear to be related to stronger selection on sexually selected traits. Using numerous proposed approaches to quantifying the shape, size and structure of G we examine how these parameters relate to one another, and how they vary among taxonomic and trait groupings. Despite considerable variation, they do not explain the observed differences in evolutionary rates.", u'Ancestry analysis from genetic data plays a critical role in studies of human disease and evolution. Recent work has introduced explicit models for the geographic distribution of genetic variation and has shown that such explicit models yield superior accuracy in ancestry inference over non-model-based methods. Here we extend such work to introduce a method that models admixture between ancestors from multiple sources across a geographic continuum.  We devise efficient algorithms based on hidden Markov models to localize on a map the recent ancestors (e.g.  grandparents) of admixed individuals, joint with assigning ancestry at each locus in the genome. We validate our methods using empirical data from individuals with mixed European ancestry from the POPRES study and show that our approach is able to localize their recent ancestors within an average of 470Km of the reported locations of their grandparents. Furthermore, simulations from real POPRES genotype data show that our method attains high accuracy in localizing recent ancestors of admixed individuals in Europe (an average of 550Km from their true location for localization of 2 ancestries in Europe, 4 generations ago). We explore the limits of ancestry localization under our approach and find that performance decreases as the number of distinct ancestries and generations since admixture increases. Finally, we build a map of expected localization accuracy across admixed individuals according to the location of origin within Europe of their ancestors.', u'We have compared the Y chromosomal lineage dating between sequence data and commonly used Y-SNP plus Y-STR data. The coalescent times estimated using evolutionary Y-STR mutation rates correspond best with sequence-based dating when the lineages include the most ancient haplogroup A individuals. However, the times using slow mutated STR markers with genealogical rates fit well with sequence-based estimates in main lineages, such as haplogroup CT, DE, K, NO, IJ, P, E, C, I, J, N, O, and R. In addition, genealogical rates lead to more plausible time estimates for Neolithic coalescent sublineages compared with sequence-based dating.', u'In clades of closely related taxa, discordant genealogies due to incomplete lineage sorting (ILS) can complicate the detection of introgression.  The D-statistic (a.k.a. the ABBA/BABA test) was proposed to infer introgression in the presence of ILS for a four-taxon clade.  However, the original D-statistic cannot be directly applied to a symmetric five-taxon phylogeny, and the direction of introgression cannot be inferred for any tree topology.  Here we explore the issues associated with previous methods for adapting the D-statistic to a larger tree topology, and propose new \x93DFOIL\x94 tests to infer both the taxa involved in and the direction of introgressions for a symmetric five-taxon phylogeny.  Using theory and simulations, we find that previous modifications of the D-statistic to five-taxon phylogenies incorrectly identify both the pairs of taxa exchanging migrants as well as the direction of introgression.  The DFOIL statistics are shown to overcome this deficiency and to correctly determine the direction of introgressions. The DFOIL tests are relatively simple and computationally inexpensive to calculate, and can be easily applied to various phylogenomic datasets.  In addition, our general approach to the problem of introgression detection could be adapted to larger tree topologies and other models of sequence evolution.', u'Deconvolving heterogeneous tumour samples to identify constituent cell populations with differing copy number profiles using whole genome sequencing data is a challenging problem. Copy number calling algorithms have differential detection rates for different sizes and classes of copy number alterations. This paper describes how uncertainty in classification and differential detection rates can introduce biases in measures of clonal diversity. A simulation strategy is introduced that allows differential detection rates to be adjusted for and this process is shown to minimise bias.', u'Protein 14-3-3 isoforms are key to many cellular processes and are ubiquitous throughout the brain. 14-3-3 is a regulator of ser/thr phospho-signaling by binding and sequestering phosphorylated substrates including kinases, histone deactylases, and transcription factors. The role of protein 14-3-3 in conditioned taste aversion learning (CTA) has not previously been examined. We parameterized CTA learning in difopein- YFP transgenic mice, which have widespread by expression of the artificial peptide difopein in the forebrain, including the basolateral amygdala and insular cortex, resulting in functional knock-out (FKO) of all 14-3-3 isoforms . We found that a single pairing of saccharin or NaCl (CS) and LiCl injection (US) was not sufficient to induce CTA in FKO mice. Multiples pairings of CS and US did lead to CTA acquisition in the FKO mice; however, the CTA rapidly extinguished within 30 minutes to 24 hours after acquisition. Additionally, we found that 14-3-3 FKO mice have an attenuated visceral neuraxis response to LiCl as measured by c-Fos induction. The deficit in FKO was not due to an inability to discriminate or avoid tastants, because they showed normal unconditioned taste preferences for both palatable (saccharin, maltodextrin , low concentration NaCl) and unpalatable tastants (quinine, HCl, and high concentration NaCl) and they were able to reduce intake of a maltodextrin solution adulterated with quinine. The FKO did not have a global deficit in ingestive learning, because they were able to form a conditioned flavor-nutrient preference. Thus, FKO of forebrain 14-3-3 appears to disrupt CTA learning leading to forgetting, rapid extinction, or failure to reconsolidate. This further implicates ser/thr phospho-signaling pathways in the regulation of long-term CTA learning.', u'In the past, lack of lineage markers confounded the classification of dendritic cells (DC) in the intestine and impeded a full understanding of their location and function. We have recently shown that the chemokine receptor XCR1 is a lineage marker for cross-presenting DC in the spleen. Now we provide evidence that intestinal XCR1+ DC largely, but not fully, overlap with CD103+ CD11b- DC, the hypothesized correlate of \x93cross-presenting DC\x94 in the intestine, and are selectively dependent in their development on the transcription factor Batf3. XCR1+ DC are located in the villi and epithelial crypts of the lamina propria of the small intestine, the T cell zones of Peyer\x92s Patches, and in the T cell zones and sinuses of the draining mesenteric lymph node. Functionally, we could demonstrate for the first time that XCR1+ / CD103+ CD11b- DC excel in the cross-presentation of orally applied antigen. Together, our data show that XCR1 is a lineage marker for cross-presenting DC also in the intestinal immune system. Further, extensive phenotypic analyses reveal that expression of the integrin SIRP\u03b1 consistently demarcates the XCR1- DC population. We propose a simplified and consistent classification system for intestinal DC based on the expression of XCR1 and SIRP\u03b1.', u'Transcriptional regulation of gene expression is one of the main processes that affect cell diversification from a single set of genes. Regulatory proteins often interact with DNA regions located distally from the transcription start sites (TSS) of the genes. We developed a computational method that combines open chromatin and gene expression information for a large number of cell types to identify these distal regulatory elements. Our method builds correlation graphs for publicly available DNase-seq and exon array datasets with matching samples and uses graph-based methods to filter findings supported by multiple datasets and remove indirect interactions.  The resulting set of interactions was validated with both anecdotal information of known long-range interactions and unbiased experimental data deduced from Hi-C and CAGE experiments. Our results provide a novel set of high-confidence candidate open chromatin regions involved in gene regulation, often located several Mb away from the TSS of their target gene.', u'Recent chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) experiments in fly, mouse, and human have revealed the existence of high-occupancy target (HOT) regions or \x93hotspots\x94 that show enrichment across many assayed DNA-binding proteins. Similar co-enrichment observed in yeast so far has been treated as artifactual, and has not been fully characterized. Here we reanalyze ChIP data from both array-based and sequencing-based experiments to show that in the yeast S. cerevisiae, the collective enrichment phenomenon is strongly associated with proximity to noncoding RNA genes and with nucleosome depletion. DNA sequence motifs that confer binding affinity for the proteins are largely absent from these hotspots, suggesting that protein-protein interactions play a prominent role. The hotspots are condition-specific, suggesting that they reflect a chromatin state or protein state, and are not a static feature of underlying sequence. Additionally, only a subset of all assayed factors is associated with these loci, suggesting that the co-enrichment cannot be simply explained by a chromatin state that is universally more prone to immunoprecipitation. Together our results suggest that the co-enrichment patterns observed in yeast represent transcription factor co-occupancy. More generally, they make clear that great caution must be used when interpreting ChIP enrichment profiles for individual factors in isolation, as they will include factor-specific as well as collective contributions.', u'With the advent of high-throughput measurement techniques, scientists and engineers are starting to grapple with massive data sets and encountering challenges with how to organize, process and extract information into meaningful structures. Multidimensional spatio-temporal biological data sets such as time series gene expression with various perturbations with different cell lines, or neural spike data sets across many experimental trials have the potential to acquire insight across multiple dimensions. For this potential to be realized, we need a suitable representation to turn data into insight. \nSince a wide range of experiments and the (unknown) complexity of underlying system make biological data more heterogeneous than those in other fields, we propose the method based on Robust Principal Component Analysis (RPCA), which is well suited for extracting principal components where we have corrupted observations. The proposed method provides us a new representation of these data sets which consists of its common and aberrant response. This representation might help users to acquire a new insight from data. %For example, identifying common event-related neural features across many experimental trials can be used as a signature to detect discrete events or state transitions. Also, the proposed method can be useful to biologists in clustering and analyzing gene expression time series data with a new perspective, for example, it can not only extract canonical cell signaling response but also inform them to get insight into the heterogeneity of different responses across different cell lines.', u'Background: Asthma as chronic inflammatory airway disease is considered to be the most common chronic disease that is involving genetic and environmental factors. Toll like receptors (TLRs) and other inflammatory mediators are important in modulation of inflammation. In this study we evaluated the role of TLR2 Arg753Gln and TLR4 Asp299Gly polymorphisms in the asthma susceptibility, progress, control levels and lung functions in Iranian subjects.\nMethods: On 99 asthmatic patients and 120 normal subjects, TLR2 Arg753Gln and TLR4 Asp299Gly polymorphism were evaluated by PCR-RFLP method recruiting Msp1 and Nco1 restriction enzymes, respectively. IgE serum levels by ELISA technique were determined and asthma diagnosis, treatment and control levels were considered using standard schemes and criteria.\n Results: Our results indicated that the genotype and allele frequencies of the TLR2 Arg753Gln and TLR4 Asp299Gly polymorphisms were not significantly different between control subjects and asthmatics (p > 0.05) or even in asthma features such as IgE levels, asthma history and pulmonary factors (p > 0.05).\n Conclusions: Meanwhile some previous studies indicated TLRs and their polymorphisms role in asthma incidence and features, our data demonstrated that TLR2 Arg753Gln and TLR4 Asp299Gly gene variants were not risk factor of asthma or its features in Iranian patients. Genetic complexity, ethnicity, influence of other genes or polymorphisms may overcome these polymorphisms in our asthmatics.', u'The discovery and study of a vast number of regulatory RNAs in all kingdoms of life over the past decades has allowed the design of new synthetic RNAs that can regulate gene expression in vivo. Riboregulators, in particular, have been used to activate or repress gene expression. However, to accelerate and scale up the design process, synthetic biologists require computer-assisted design tools, without which riboregulator engineering will remain a case-by-case design process requiring expert  attention. Recently, the design of RNA circuits by evolutionary computation and adapting strand displacement techniques from nanotechnology has proven to be suited to the automated generation of DNA sequences implementing regulatory RNA systems in bacteria. Herein, we present our method to carry out such evolutionary design and how to use it to create various types of riboregulators, allowing the \nsystematic de novo design of genetic control systems in synthetic biology.', u'All modern approaches to molecular phylogenetics require a quantitative model for how genes evolve. Unfortunately, existing evolutionary models do not realistically represent the site-heterogeneous selection that governs actual sequence change. Attempts to remedy this problem have involved augmenting these models with a burgeoning number of free parameters. Here I demonstrate an alternative: experimental determination of a parameter-free evolutionary model via mutagenesis, functional selection, and deep sequencing. Using this strategy, I create an evolutionary model for influenza nucleoprotein that describes the gene phylogeny far better than existing models with dozens or even hundreds of free parameters. Emerging high-throughput experimental strategies such as the one employed here provide fundamentally new information that has the potential to transform the sensitivity of phylogenetic and genetic analyses.', u'Large RNAs control myriad biological processes but challenge tertiary structure determination. We report that integrating Multiplexed \x95OH Cleavage Analysis with tabletop deep sequencing (MOHCA-seq) gives nucleotide-resolution proximity maps of RNA structure from single straightforward experiments. After achieving 1-nm resolution models for RNAs of known structure, MOHCA-seq reveals previously unattainable 3D information for ligand-induced conformational changes in a double glycine riboswitch and the sixth community-wide RNA puzzle, an adenosylcobalamin riboswitch.', u"Heterogeneity is a ubiquitous feature of biological systems. A complete understanding of such systems requires a method for uniquely identifying and tracking individual components and their interactions with each other. We have developed a novel method of uniquely tagging individual cells in vivo with a genetic 'barcode' that can be recovered by DNA sequencing. We demonstrate the feasibility of this technique in bacterial cells. This method should prove useful in tracking interactions of cells within a network, and/or heterogeneity within complex biological samples.", u'Various bacteria such as the canonical gram negative Escherichia coli or the well-studied gram positive Bacillus subtilis divide symmetrically after they approximately double their volume. Their size at division is not constant, but is typically distributed over a narrow range. Here, we propose an analytically tractable model for cell size control, and calculate the cell size and inter-division time distributions, and the correlations between these variables. We suggest ways of extracting the model parameters from experimental data, and show that existing data for E. coli supports partial size control, and a particular explanation: a cell attempts to add a constant volume from the time of initiation of DNA replication to the next initiation event. This hypothesis accounts for the experimentally observed correlations between mother and daughter cells as well as the exponential dependence of size on growth rate.', u"Recent studies have shown that adaptation from de novo mutation often produces so-called soft selective sweeps, where adaptive mutations of independent mutational origin sweep through the population at the same time. Population genetic theory predicts that soft sweeps should be likely if the product of the population size and the mutation rate towards the adaptive allele is sufficiently large, such that multiple adaptive mutations can establish before one has reached fixation; however, it remains unclear how demographic processes affect the probability of observing soft sweeps. Here we extend the theory of soft selective sweeps to realistic demographic scenarios that allow for changes in population size over time. We first show that population bottlenecks can lead to the removal of all but one adaptive lineage from an initially soft selective sweep. The parameter regime under which such 'hardening' of soft selective sweeps is likely is determined by a simple heuristic condition. We further develop a generalized analytical framework, based on an extension of the coalescent process, for calculating the probability of soft sweeps under arbitrary demographic scenarios. Two important limits emerge within this analytical framework: In the limit where population size fluctuations are fast compared to the duration of the sweep, the likelihood of soft sweeps is determined by the harmonic mean of the variance effective population size estimated over the duration of the sweep; in the opposing slow fluctuation limit, the likelihood of soft sweeps is determined by the instantaneous variance effective population size at the onset of the sweep. We show that as a consequence of this finding the probability of observing soft sweeps becomes a function of the strength of selection. Specifically, in species with sharply fluctuating population size, strong selection is more likely to produce soft sweeps than weak selection. Our results highlight the importance of accurate demographic estimates over short evolutionary timescales for understanding the population genetics of adaptation from de novo mutation.", u'The production and maintenance of genetic and phenotypic diversity under temporally fluctuating selection and the signatures of environmental and selective volatility in the patterns of genetic and phenotypic variation have been important areas of focus in population genetics. On one hand, stretches of constant selection pull the genetic makeup of populations towards local fitness optima. On the other, in order to cope with changes in the selection regime, populations may evolve mechanisms that create a diversity of genotypes. By tuning the rates at which variability is produced, such as the rates of recombination, mutation or migration, populations may increase their long-term adaptability. Here we use theoretical models to gain insight into how the rates of these three evolutionary forces are shaped by fluctuating selection. We compare and contrast the evolution of recombination, mutation and migration under similar patterns of environmental change and show that these three sources of phenotypic variation are surprisingly similar in their response to changing selection. We show that knowing the shape, size, variance and asymmetry of environmental runs is essential for accurate prediction of genetic evolutionary dynamics.', u'RNA-based regulation, such as RNA interference, and CRISPR/Cas transcription factors (CRISPR-TFs), can enable scalable synthetic gene circuits and the modulation of endogenous networks but have yet to be integrated together. Here, we combined multiple mammalian RNA regulatory strategies, including RNA triple helix structures, introns, microRNAs, and ribozymes, with Cas9-based CRISPR-TFs and Cas6/Csy4-based RNA processing in human cells. We describe three complementary strategies for expressing functional gRNAs from transcripts generated by RNA polymerase II (RNAP II) promoters while allowing the harboring gene to be translated. These architectures enable the multiplexed expression of proteins and multiple gRNAs from a single compact transcript for efficient modulation of synthetic constructs and endogenous human promoters. We used these regulatory tools to implement tunable synthetic gene circuits, including multi-stage transcriptional cascades. Finally, we show that Csy4 can rewire regulatory connections in RNA-dependent gene circuits with multiple outputs and feedback loops to achieve complex functional behaviors. This multiplexable toolkit will be valuable for the construction of scalable gene circuits and the perturbation of natural regulatory networks in human cells for basic biology, therapeutic, and synthetic-biology applications.', u'Our understanding of macroevolutionary patterns of adaptive evolution has greatly increased with the advent of large-scale phylogenetic comparative methods. Widely used Ornstein-Uhlenbeck (OU) models can describe an adaptive process of divergence and selection. However, inference of the dynamics of adaptive landscapes from comparative data is complicated by interpretational difficulties, lack of identifiability among parameter values and the common requirement that adaptive hypotheses must be assigned a priori. Here we develop a reversible-jump Bayesian method of fitting multi-optima OU models to phylogenetic comparative data that estimates the placement and magnitude of adaptive shifts directly from the data. We show how biologically informed hypotheses can be tested against this inferred posterior of shift locations using Bayes Factors to establish whether our a priori models adequately describe the dynamics of adaptive peak shifts. Furthermore, we show how the inclusion of informative priors can be used to restrict models to biologically realistic parameter space and test particular biological interpretations of evolutionary models. We argue that Bayesian model-fitting of OU models to comparative data provides a framework for integrating of multiple sources of biological data--such as microevolutionary estimates of selection parameters and paleontological timeseries--allowing inference of adaptive landscape dynamics with explicit, process-based biological interpretations.', u"The living state is cognitive at every scale and level of organization. Since it is possible to associate a broad class of cognitive processes with 'dual' information sources, many pathologies can be addressed using statistical models based on the Shannon Coding, the Shannon-McMillan Source Coding, the Rate Distortion, and the Data Rate Theorems, as these impose powerful necessary condition constraints on information generation and exchange, and on system control. Deterministic-but-for-error biological codes do not directly invoke cognition, although they may be essential subcomponents within larger cognitive processes. A formal argument, however, places such codes within a similar framework, with metabolic free energy serving as a 'control signal' stabilizing biochemical code-and-translator dynamics in the presence of noise. Demand beyond available energy supply then expresses itself in punctuated destabilization of the coding channel, affecting a spectrum of essential biological functions. Aging, normal or prematurely driven by psychosocial or environmental stressors, must eventually interfere with the routine operation of such mechanisms, triggering chronic diseases associated with senescence. Amyloid fibril formation, intrinsically disordered protein logic gates, and cell surface glycan/lectin 'kelp bed' logic gates are reviewed from this perspective. The results, however, generalize beyond coding machineries having easily recognizable symmetry modes, and strip a full layer of mathematical complication from the study of phase transitions in nonequilibrium biological systems.", u'stract\nBoth type III effector proteins and non-ribosomal peptide toxins play important roles for Pseudomonas syringae pathogenicity in host plants, but whether and how these virulence pathways interact to promote infection remains unclear. Genomic evidence from one clade of P. syringae suggests a tradeoff between the total number of type III effector proteins and presence of syringomycin, syringopeptin, and syringolin A toxins.  Here we report the complete genome sequence from P. syringae CC1557, which contains the lowest number of known type III effectors to date and has also acquired genes similar to sequences encoding syringomycin pathways from other strains. We demonstrate that this strain is pathogenic on Nicotiana benthamiana and that both the type III secretion system and a new type III effector family, hopBJ1, contribute to virulence. We further demonstrate that virulence activity of HopBJ1 is dependent on similar catalytic sites as the E. coli CNF1 toxin. Taken together, our results provide additional support for a negative correlation between type III effector repertoires and the potential to produce syringomycin-like toxins while also highlighting how genomic synteny and bioinformatics can be used to identify and characterize novel virulence proteins.', u'Single-cell genomic analysis has grown rapidly in recent years and will find widespread applications in various fields of biology, including cancer biology, development, immunology, pre-implantation genetic diagnosis, and neurobiology. In this study, we amplified genomic DNA from individual hippocampal neurons using one of three single-cell DNA amplification methods (multiple annealing and looping-based amplification cycles (MALBAC), multiple displacement amplification (MDA), and GenomePlex whole genome amplification (WGA4)). We then systematically evaluated the genome coverage, GC-bias, reproducibility, and copy number variations among individual neurons. Our results showed that single-cell genome sequencing results obtained from the MALBAC and WGA4 methods are highly reproducible and have a high success rate. Chromosome-level and subchromosomal-level copy number variations among individual neurons can be detected.', u'In 2013, two new avian influenza viruses (AIVs) H7N9 and H10N8 emerged in China caused worldwide concerns. Previous studies have studied their originations independently; this study is the first time to investigate their co-originating characteristics. Gene segments of assorted subtype influenza A viruses, as well as H10N8 and H7N9, were collected from public database. With the help of series software, small and large-scale phylogenetic trees, mean evolutionary rates, and divergence years were obtained successionally. The results demonstrated the two AIVs co-originated from H9N2, and shared a spectrum of mutations in common on many key sites related to pathogenic, tropism and epidemiological characteristics. For a long time, H9N2 viruses had been circulated in eastern and southern China; poultry was the stable and lasting maintenance reservoir. High carrying rate of AIVs H9N2 in poultry had an extremely high risk of co-infections with other influenza viruses, which increased the risk of virus reassortment. It implied that novel AIVs reassortants based on H9N2 might appear and prevail at any time in China; therefore, surveillance of H9N2 AIVs should be given a high priority.', u'We analyze the scaling and cost-performance characteristics of current and projected connectomics approaches, with reference to the potential implications of recent advances in diverse contributing fields. Three generalized strategies for dense connectivity mapping at the scale of whole mammalian brains are considered: electron microscopic axon tracing, optical imaging of combinatorial molecular markers at synapses, and bulk DNA sequencing of trans-synaptically exchanged nucleic acid barcode pairs. Due to advances in parallel-beam instrumentation, whole mouse brain electron microscopic image acquisition could cost less than $100 million, with total costs presently limited by image analysis to trace axons through large image stacks. Optical microscopy at 50 to 100 nm isotropic resolution could potentially read combinatorially multiplexed molecular information from individual synapses, which could indicate the identifies of the pre-synaptic and post-synaptic cells without relying on axon tracing. An optical approach to whole mouse brain connectomics may be achievable for less than $10 million and could be enabled by emerging technologies to sequence nucleic acids in-situ in fixed tissue via fluorescent microscopy. Novel strategies relying on bulk DNA sequencing, which would extract the connectome without direct imaging of the tissue, could produce a whole mouse brain connectome for $100k to $1 million or a mouse cortical connectome for $10k to $100k. Anticipated further reductions in the cost of DNA sequencing could lead to a $1000 mouse cortical connectome.', u'Common variants implicated by genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of complex diseases are known to be enriched for coding and regulatory variants. We applied methods to partition the heritability explained by genotyped SNPs (h2g) across functional categories (while accounting for shared variance due to linkage disequilibrium) to genotype and imputed data for 11 common diseases. DNaseI Hypersensitivity Sites (DHS) from 218 cell-types, spanning 16% of the genome, explained an average of 79% of h2g (5.1\xd7 enrichment; P < 10\u221220); further enrichment was observed at enhancer and cell-type specific DHS elements. The enrichments were much smaller in analyses that did not use imputed data or were restricted to GWAS- associated SNPs. In contrast, coding variants, spanning 1% of the genome, explained only 8% of h2g (13.8\xd7 enrichment; P = 5 \xd7 10\u22124). We replicated these findings but found no significant contribution from rare coding variants in an independent schizophrenia cohort genotyped on GWAS and exome chips.', u'The efficient recognition of pathogens by the adaptive immune system relies on the diversity of receptors displayed at the surface of immune cells. T-cell receptor diversity results from an initial random DNA editing process, called VDJ recombination, followed by functional selection of cells according to the interaction of their surface receptors with self and foreign antigenic peptides. To quantify the effect of selection on the highly variable elements of the receptor, we apply a probabilistic maximum likelihood approach to the analysis of high-throughput sequence data from the \u03b2-chain of human T-cell receptors. We quantify selection factors for V and J gene choice, and for the length  and amino-acid composition of the variable region. Our approach is necessary to disentangle the effects of selection from biases inherent in the recombination process. Inferred selection factors differ little between donors, or between naive and memory repertoires. The number of sequences shared between donors is well-predicted by the model, indicating a purely stochastic origin of such "public" sequences. We find a significant correlation between biases induced by VDJ recombination and our inferred selection factors, together with a reduction of diversity during selection. Both effects suggest that natural selection acting on the recombination process has anticipated the selection pressures experienced during somatic evolution.', u"Background: We consider the problem of reconstructing a gene regulatory network structure from limited time series gene expression data, without any a priori knowledge of connectivity.  We assume that the network is sparse, meaning the connectivity among genes is much less than full connectivity.  We develop a method for network reconstruction based on compressive sensing, which takes advantage of the network's sparseness.\n\nResults: For the case in which all genes are accessible for measurement, and there is no measurement noise, we show that our method can be used to exactly reconstruct the network. For the more general problem, in which hidden genes exist and all measurements are contaminated by noise, we show that our method leads to reliable reconstruction.  In both cases, coherence of the model is used to assess the ability to reconstruct the network and to design new experiments. For each problem, a set of numerical examples is presented.  \n\nConclusions: The method provides a guarantee on how well the inferred graph structure represents the underlying system, reveals deficiencies in the data and model, and suggests experimental directions to remedy the deficiencies.", u'Single-cell genomic analysis has grown rapidly in recent years and will find widespread applications in various fields of biology, including cancer biology, development, immunology, pre-implantation genetic diagnosis, and neurobiology. In this study, we amplified genomic DNA from individual hippocampal neurons using one of three single-cell DNA amplification methods (multiple annealing and looping-based amplification cycles (MALBAC), multiple displacement amplification (MDA), and GenomePlex whole genome amplification (WGA4)). We then systematically evaluated the genome coverage, GC-bias, reproducibility, and copy number variations among individual neurons. Our results showed that single-cell genome sequencing results obtained from the MALBAC and WGA4 methods are highly reproducible and have a high success rate. Chromosome-level and subchromosomal-level copy number variations among individual neurons can be detected.', u'Gene duplication provides raw material for the evolution of functional innovation. We recently developed a phylogenetic method to classify the evolutionary processes underlying the retention and functional evolution of duplicate genes by quantifying divergence of their gene expression profiles. Here, we apply our method to pairs of duplicate genes in eight mammalian genomes, using data from 11 distinct tissues to construct spatial gene expression profiles. We find that young mammalian duplicates are often functionally conserved, and that functional divergence gradually increases with evolutionary distance between species. Examination of expression patterns in genes with conserved and new functions supports the ?out-of-testes? hypothesis, in which new genes arise with testis-specific functions and acquire functions in other tissues over time. While new functions tend to be tissue-specific, there is no bias toward expression in any particular tissue. Thus, duplicate genes acquire a diversity of functions outside of the testes, possibly contributing to the origin of a multitude of complex phenotypes during mammalian evolution.', u'Many organisms live in populations structured by space and by class, exhibit plastic responses to their social partners, and are subject to non-additive ecological and fitness effects. Social evolution theory has long recognized that all of these factors can lead to different selection pressures but has only recently attempted to synthesize how these factors interact.  Using models for both discrete and continuous phenotypes, we show that analyzing these factors in a consistent framework reveals that they interact with one another in ways previously overlooked.  Specifically, behavioral responses (reciprocity), genetic relatedness, and synergy interact in non-trivial ways that cannot be easily captured by simple summary indices of assortment.  We demonstrate the importance of these interactions by showing how they have been neglected in previous synthetic models of social behavior both within and between species.  These interactions also affect the level of behavioral responses that can evolve in the long run; proximate biological mechanisms are evolutionarily stable when they generate enough responsiveness relative to the level of responsiveness that exactly balances the ecological costs and benefits.  Given the richness of social behavior across taxa, these interactions should be a boon for empirical research as they are likely crucial for describing the complex relationship linking ecology, demography, and social behavior.', u'Inter-individual differences in many behaviors are partly due to genetic differences, but the\nidentification of the genes and variants that influence behavior remains challenging. Here, we\nstudied an F2 intercross of two outbred lines of rats selected for tame and aggressive behavior\ntowards humans for more than 64 generations. By using a mapping approach that is able to identify\ngenetic loci segregating within the lines, we identified four times more loci influencing tameness\nand aggression than by an approach that assumes fixation of causative alleles, suggesting that many\ncausative loci were not driven to fixation by the selection. We used RNA sequencing in 150 F2\nanimals to identify hundreds of loci that influence brain gene expression. Several of these loci colocalize\nwith tameness loci and may reflect the same genetic variants. Through analyses of\ncorrelations between allele effects on behavior and gene expression, differential expression between\nthe tame and aggressive rat selection lines, and correlations between gene expression and tameness\nin F2 animals, we identify the genes Gltscr2, Lgi4, Zfp40 and Slc17a7 as candidate contributors to\nthe strikingly different behavior of the tame and aggressive animals.', u'Evolutionary game theory has become one of the most diverse and far reaching theories in biology. Applications of this theory range from cell dynamics to social evolution. However, many applications make it clear that inherent non-linearities of natural systems need to be taken into account. One way of introducing such non-linearities into evolutionary games is by the inclusion of multiple players. An example is of social dilemmas, where group benefits could e.g. increase less than linear with the number of cooperators. Such multiplayer games can be introduced in all the fields where evolutionary game theory is already well established. \nHowever, the inclusion of non-linearities can help to advance the analysis of systems which are known to be complex, e.g. in the case of non-Mendelian inheritance. We review the diachronic theory and applications of multiplayer evolutionary games and present the current state of the field.\nOur aim is a summary of the theoretical results from well-mixed populations in infinite as well as finite populations. We also discuss examples from three fields where the theory has been successfully applied, ecology, social sciences and population genetics. In closing, we probe certain future directions which can be explored using the complexity of multiplayer games while preserving the promise of simplicity of evolutionary games.', u'Small molecule inhibitors of clathrin-mediated endocytosis are highly desired for the dissection of membrane trafficking pathways in the lab and for potential use as anti-infectives in the clinic. One inhibition strategy is to prevent clathrin from contacting adaptor proteins so that clathrin-mediated endocytosis cannot occur. "Pitstop" compounds have been developed which block only one of the four functional interaction sites on the N-terminal domain of clathrin heavy chain. Despite this limitation, Pitstop 2 causes profound inhibition of clathrin-mediated endocytosis. In this study, we probed for non-specific activity of Pitstop 2 by examining its action in cells expressing clathrin heavy chain harbouring mutations in the N-terminal domain interaction sites. We conclude that the inhibition observed with this compound is due to non-specificity, i.e. it causes inhibition away from its proposed mode of action. We recommend that these compounds be used with caution in cells and that they should not be used to conclude anything of the function of clathrin\u2019s N-terminal domain.', u'By spatially distributing offspring among several habitat patches in varying environments, an organism can "hedge its bets" to protect against bad conditions in any single patch. This strategy can maintain populations even when some or even all locations are, on average, population sinks. However, species may not have evolved this bet-hedging mechanism, especially when sink environments are anthropogenic "traps" - locations where traditional habitat cues have been altered. Using a model based on the life history of the Cascades frog (*Rana cascadae*), we examine the conditions that maximize growth in an environment with ecological traps created by the introduction of predators. In a temporally stochastic environment, maximum growth rates occur when some juveniles disperse to the trap. We then examine how different life histories and predation regimes affect the ability of an organism gain an advantage by bet-hedging, and find that bet-hedging can be less useful when the ecological trap drives adult, rather than juvenile, mortality.', u'The entomopathogenic Fungi comprise a wide range of ecologically diverse species. This group of parasites can be found distributed among all fungal phyla and as well as among the ecologically similar but phylogenetically distinct Oomycetes or water molds, that belong to a different kingdom (Stramenopila). As a group, the entomopathogenic fungi and water molds parasitize a wide range of insect hosts from aquatic larvae in streams to adult insects of high canopy tropical forests. Their hosts are spread among 18 orders of insects, in all developmental stages such as: eggs, larvae, pupae, nymphs and adults exhibiting completely different ecologies. Such assortment of niches has resulted in these parasites evolving a considerable morphological diversity, resulting in enormous biodiversity, much of which remains unknown. Here we gather together a huge amount of records of these entomopathogens to comparing and describe both their morphologies and ecological traits. These findings highlight a wide range of adaptations that evolved following the evolutionary transition to infecting the most diverse and widespread animals on Earth, the insects.', u'The degree of oxidation of carbon atoms in organic molecules depends on the covalent structure. In proteins, the average oxidation state of carbon (ZC) can be calculated as an elemental ratio from the chemical formula. To investigate oxidation-reduction (redox) patterns, groups of proteins from different subcellular locations and phylogenetic divisions were selected for comparison. Extracellular proteins of yeast have a relatively high oxidation state of carbon, corresponding with oxidizing conditions outside of the cell. However, an inverse relationship between ZC and redox potential occurs between the endoplasmic reticulum and cytoplasm; this trend is interpreted as resulting from overall coupling of protein turnover to the formation of a lower glutathione redox potential in the cytoplasm. In Rubisco homologues, lower ZC tends to occur in organisms with higher optimal growth temperature, and there are broad changes in ZC in whole-genome protein compositions in microbes from different environments. Energetic costs calculated from thermodynamic models suggest that thermophilic organisms exhibit molecular adaptation to not only high temperature but also the reducing nature of many hydrothermal fluids. A view of protein metabolism that depends on the chemical conditions of cells and environments raises new questions linking biochemical processes to changes on evolutionary timescales.', u'Understanding the mapping of genotypes into phenotypes is a central challenge of current biological research. Such mapping, conceptually represents a developmental mechanism through which phenotypic variation can be generated. Given the nongenetic character of developmental dynamics, phenotypic variation to a great extent has been neglected in the study of evolution. What is the relevance of considering this generative process in the study of evolution? How can we study its evolutionary consequences? Despite an historical systematic bias towards linear causation schemes in biology; in the post-genomic era, a systems-view to biology based on nonlinear (network) thinking is increasingly being adopted. Within this view, evolutionary dynamics can be studied using simple dynamical models of gene regulatory networks (GRNs). Through the study of GRN dynamics, genotypes and phenotypes can be unambiguously defined. The orchestrating role of GRNs constitutes an operational {\\em non-linear} genotype-phenotype map. Further extension of these GRN models in order to explore and characterize an associated Epigenetic Landscape enables the study of the evolutionary consequences of both genetic and non-genetic sources of phenotypic variation within the same coherent theoretical framework. The merging of conceptually clear theories, computational/mathematical tools, and molecular/genomic data into coherent frameworks could be the basis for a transformation of biological research from mainly a descriptive exercise into a truly mechanistic, explanatory endeavor.', u'Genome-wide profiling of open chromatin regions using DNase I and high-throughput sequencing (DNase- seq) is an increasingly popular approach for finding and studying regulatory elements. A variety of algorithms have been developed to identify regions of open chromatin from raw sequence-tag data, which has motivated us to assess and compare their performance.\nIn this study, four published, publicly available peak calling algorithms used for DNase-seq data analysis (F-seq, Hotspot, MACS and ZINBA) are assessed at a range of signal thresholds on two published DNase-seq datasets for three cell types. The results were benchmarked against an independent dataset of regulatory regions derived from ENCODE in vivo transcription factor binding data for each particular cell type. The level of overlap between peak regions reported by each algorithm and this ENCODE-derived reference set was used to assess sensitivity and specificity of the algorithms.\nOur study suggests that F-seq has a slightly higher sensitivity than the next best algorithms. Hotspot and the ChIP-seq oriented method, MACS, both perform competitively when used with their default parameters. However the generic peak finder ZINBA appears to be less sensitive than the other three.\nWe also assess accuracy of each algorithm over a range of signal thresholds. In particular, we show that the accuracy of F-Seq can be considerably improved by using a threshold setting that is different from the default value.', u'Individuals can manipulate the behavior of social partners. However, manipulation may conflict with the fitness interests of the manipulated individuals. Manipulated individuals can then be favored to resist manipulation, possibly reducing or eliminating the manipulated behavior in the long run. I use a mathematical model to show that conflicts where manipulation and resistance coevolve can disappear as a result of the coevolutionary process. I find that while manipulated individuals are selected to resist, they can simultaneously be favored to express the manipulated behavior at higher efficiency (i.e., providing increasing fitness effects to recipients of the manipulated behavior). Efficiency can increase to a point at which selection for resistance disappears. This process yields an efficient social behavior that is induced by social partners, and over which the inducing and induced individuals are no longer in conflict. A necessary factor is costly inefficiency. I develop the model to address the evolution of advanced eusociality via maternal manipulation (AEMM). The model predicts AEMM to be particularly likely in taxa with ancestrally imperfect resistance to maternal manipulation. Costly inefficiency occurs if the cost of delayed dispersal is larger than the benefit of exploiting the maternal patch. I discuss broader implications of the process. Now published in: Evolution, doi:10.1111/evo.12420', u"Zebra finches are a highly social, gregarious, species and eagerly engage in vocal communication. We have developed a training apparatus that allows training zebra finches to discriminate socially reinforced and aversive vocal stimuli. In our experiments, juvenile male zebra finches were trained to discriminate a song that was followed by a brief air puff (aversive) and a song that allowed them to stay in visual contact with another bird, 'audience' (social song). During training, the birds learned quickly to avoid air puffs by escaping the aversive song within 2 sec. They escaped significantly more aversive songs than socially reinforced ones, and this effect grew stronger with the number of training sessions. Therefore, we propose this training procedure as an effective method to teach zebra finches to discriminate between different auditory stimuli, which may also be used as a broader paradigm for addressing social reinforcement learning. The apparatus can be built from commercially available parts, and we are sharing the software on our website.", u'Humans in many societies cooperate in economic experiments at much higher levels than would be expected if their goal was maximizing economic returns, even when their interactions are anonymous and one-shot. This is a puzzle because paying a cost to benefit another in one-shot interactions gives no direct or indirect benefits to the cooperator. This paper explores the logic of two competing evolutionary hypotheses to explain this behavior. The "norm psychology" hypothesis holds that a player\'s choice of strategy\nreflects socially-learned cultural norms. Its premise is that over the course of human evolutionary history, cultural norms varied considerably across human societies and through a process of gene-culture co-evolution, humans evolved mechanisms to learn and adopt the norms that are successful in their particular society. The "mismatch" hypothesis holds that pro-social preferences evolved genetically in our hunter-gatherer past where one-shot anonymous interactions were rare and these preferences are misapplied in modern laboratory settings. I compare these hypotheses by adopting a well-known model of the mismatch hypothesis and show that selection for one-shot cooperation in the model is an artifact of agents being constrained to only two strategies: Tit-for-Tat and Always Defect. Allowing for repentant and forgiving strategies reverses selection away from one-shot cooperation under\nall environmental parameters. Direct reciprocity does not necessarily lead\nto cooperation, but instead generates many different normative equilibria depending on a group\'s idiosyncratic evolutionary history. Therefore, an agent whose behavior is evoked solely from non-cultural environmental cues\nwill be disadvantaged relative to an agent who learns the locally successful norms. Cooperation in one-shot laboratory experiments is thus more easily explained as the result of a psychology evolved for learning social norms than as a genetic mismatch.', u'Regulation of gene expression underlies cell identity. Chromatin structure and gene activity are linked at multiple levels, via positioning of genomic loci to transcriptionally permissive or repressive environments and by connecting cis-regulatory elements such as promoters and enhancers. However, the genome-wide dynamics of these processes during cell differentiation has not been characterized. Using tethered chromatin conformation capture (TCC) sequencing we determined global three-dimensional chromatin structures in mouse embryonic stem (ES) and neural stem (NS) cell derivatives. We found that changes in the propensity of genomic regions to form inter-chromosomal contacts are pervasive in neural induction and are associated with the regulation of gene expression. Moreover, we found a pronounced contribution of euchromatic domains to the intra-chromosomal interaction network of pluripotent cells, indicating the existence of an ES cell-specific mode of chromatin organization. Mapping of promoter-enhancer interactions in pluripotent and differentiated cells revealed that spatial proximity without enhancer element activity is a common architectural feature in cells undergoing early developmental changes. Activity-independent formation of higher-order contacts between cis-regulatory elements, predominant at complex loci, may thus provide an additional layer of transcriptional control.', u'Background\nCirculating cell free fetal DNA has enabled non-invasive prenatal fetal aneuploidy testing without direct discrimination of the genetically distinct maternal and fetal DNA. Current testing may be improved by specifically enriching the sample material for fetal DNA.  DNA methylation may allow for such a separation of DNA and thus support additional clinical opportunities; however, this depends on knowledge of the methylomes of ccf DNA and its cellular contributors. \nResults\nWhole genome bisulfite sequencing was performed on a set of unmatched samples including ccf DNA from 8 non-pregnant (NP) and 7 pregnant female donors and genomic DNA from 7 maternal buffy coat and 5 placenta samples.  We found CpG cytosines within longer fragments were more likely to be methylated, linking DNA methylation and fragment size in ccf DNA.  Comparison of the methylomes of placenta and NP ccf DNA revealed many of the 51,259 identified differentially methylated regions (DMRs) were located in domains exhibiting consistent placenta hypomethylation across millions of consecutive bases, regions we termed placenta hypomethylated domains (PHDs). We found PHDs were consistently located within regions exhibiting low CpG and gene density.  DMRs identified when comparing placenta to NP ccf DNA were recapitulated in pregnant ccf DNA, confirming the ability to detect differential methylation in ccf DNA mixtures.\nConclusions\nWe generated methylome maps for four sample types at single base resolution, identified a link between DNA methylation and fragment length in ccf DNA, identified DMRs between sample groups, and uncovered the presence of megabase-size placenta hypomethylated domains.  Furthermore, we anticipate these results to provide a foundation to which future studies using discriminatory DNA methylation may be compared.', u'One of the key questions in biology is how the metabolism of a cell responds to changes in the environment. In budding yeast, starvation causes a drop in intracellular pH, but the functional role of this pH change is not well understood. Here, we show that the enzyme glutamine synthetase (Gln1) forms filaments at low pH and that filament formation leads to enzymatic inactivation. Filament formation by Gln1 is a highly cooperative process, strongly dependent on macromolecular crowding, and involves back-to-back stacking of cylindrical homo-decamers into filaments that associate laterally to form higher order fibrils. Other metabolic enzymes also assemble into filaments at low pH. Hence, we propose that filament formation is a general mechanism to inactivate and store key metabolic enzymes during a state of advanced cellular starvation. These findings have broad implications for understanding the interplay between nutritional stress, the metabolism and the physical organization of a cell.', u'The diversity of populations in domestic species offers great opportunities to study genome response to selection. The recently\npublished Sheep HapMap dataset is a great example of characterization of the world wide genetic diversity in sheep. In this study, we re-analyzed the Sheep HapMap dataset to identify selection signatures in worldwide sheep populations. Compared to previous analyses, we made use of statistical methods that (i) take account of the hierarchical\nstructure of sheep populations, (ii) make use of linkage disequilibrium information and (iii) focus specifically on either recent or older selection signatures. We show that this allows pinpointing several new selection signatures in the sheep genome and distinguishing those related to modern breeding objectives and to earlier post-domestication constraints. The newly identified regions, together with the ones previously identified, reveal the extensive genome response to selection on morphology,\ncolor and adaptation to new environments.', u"1. Species distribution models (SDMs) can be used to predict how individual species---and whole assemblages of species---will respond to a changing environment. Until now, these models have either assumed (1) that species' occurrence probabilities are uncorrelated, or (2) that species respond linearly to preselected environmental variables. These two assumptions currently prevent ecologists from modeling assemblages with realistic co-occurrence and species richness properties.\n\n2. This paper introduces a stochastic feedforward neural network,  called mistnet, which makes neither assumption. Thus, unlike most SDMs, mistnet can account for non-independent co-occurrence patterns driven by unobserved environmental heterogeneity. And unlike recently proposed Joint SDMs, mistnet can also learn nonlinear functions relating species' occurrence probabilities to environmental predictors.\n\n3. Mistnet makes more accurate predictions about the North American bird communities found along Breeding Bird Survey transects than several alternative methods tested. In particular, typical assemblages held out of sample for validation were nearly 50,000 times more likely under the mistnet model than under independent combinations of single-species models.\n\n4. Apart from improved accuracy, mistnet shows two other important benefits for ecological research and management. First: by analyzing co-occurrence data, mistnet can identify unmeasured---and perhaps unanticipated---environmental variables that drive species turnover. For example, mistnet identified a strong grassland/forest gradient, even though only temperature and precipitation were given as model inputs. Second: mistnet is able to take advantage of incomplete data sets to guide its predictions towards more realistic assemblages. For example, mistnet automatically adjusts its expectations to include more forest-associated species in response to a stray observation of a forest-dwelling warbler.", u'Can one hear the \x91sound\x92 of a growing network? We address the problem of recognizing the topology of evolving biological or social networks. Starting from percolation theory, we analytically prove a linear inverse relationship between two simple graph parameters\x97the logarithm of the average cluster size and logarithm of the ratio of the edges of the graph to the theoretically maximum number of edges for that graph\x97that holds for all growing power law graphs.  The result establishes a novel property of evolving power-law networks in the asymptotic limit of network size. Numerical simulations as well as fitting to real-world citation co-authorship networks demonstrate that the result holds for networks of finite sizes, and provides a convenient measure of the extent to which an evolving family of networks belongs to the same power-law class.', u'Spatial and environmental processes influence species composition at distinct scales. Previous studies suggested that the landscape-scale distribution of larval anurans is influenced by environmental gradients related to adult breeding site selection, such as pond canopy cover, but not water chemistry. However, the combined effects of spatial, pond morphology, and water chemistry variables on metacommunity structure of larval anurans have not been analyzed. We used a partial redundancy analysis with variation partitioning to analyze the relative influence of pond morphology (e.g., depth, area, and aquatic vegetation), water chemistry, and spatial variables on a tadpole metacommunity from southeastern Brazil. We predict that the metacommunity will be spatially structured at broad spatial scales, while environmental variables, mainly related to adult habitat selection, would play a larger role at fine spatial scales. We found that broad-scale spatial patterns of pond canopy cover and pond morphology strongly influenced metacommunity structure. Additionally, species composition was spatially autocorrelated at short distances. We suggest that the reproductive behavior of adult anurans is driving tadpole metacommunity dynamics, since pond morphology, but not water chemistry affects breeding site selection by adults. Our results contribute to the understanding of amphibian species diversity in tropical environments.', u'Motivation: Several applications in bioinformatics, such as genome assemblers and error corrections methods, rely on counting and keeping track of k-mers (substrings of length k). Histograms of k-mer frequencies can give valuable insight into the underlying distribution and indicate the error rate and genome size sampled in the sequencing experiment.\n\nResults: We present KmerStream, a streaming algorithm for computing statistics for high throughput sequencing data based on the frequency of k-mers. The algorithm runs in time linear in the size of the input and the space requirement are logarithmic in the size of the input. This very low space requirement allows us to deal with much larger datasets than previously presented algorithms. We derive a simple model that allows us to estimate the error rate of the sequencing experiment, as well as the genome size, using only the aggregate statistics reported by KmerStream and validate the accuracy on sequences from a PhiX control.\nAs an application we show how KmerStream can be used to compute the error rate of a DNA sequencing experiment. We run KmerStream on a set of 2656 whole genome sequenced individuals and compare the error rate to quality values reported by the sequencing equipment. We discover that while the quality values alone are largely reliable as a predictor of error rate, there is considerable variability in the error rates between sequencing runs, even when accounting for reported quality values.\n\nAvailability: The tool KmerStream is written in C++ and is released under a GPL license. It is freely available at https://github.com/pmelsted/KmerStream', u'Motivation: With the rise of improved sequencing technologies, genomics is expanding from a single reference per species paradigm into a more comprehensive pan-genome approach with multiple individuals represented and analyzed together. One of the most sophisticated data structures for representing an entire population of genomes is a compressed de Bruijn graph. The graph structure can robustly represent simple SNPs to complex structural variations far beyond what can be done from linear sequences alone. As such there is a strong need to develop algorithms that can efficiently construct and analyze these graphs.\n\nResults: In this paper we explore the deep topological relationships between the suffix tree and the compressed de Bruijn graph. We introduce a novel O(n log n) time and space algorithm called splitMEM, that directly constructs the compressed de Bruijn graph for a pan-genome of total length n. To achieve this time complexity, we augment the suffix tree with suffix skips, a new construct that allows us to traverse several suffix links in constant time, and use them to efficiently decompose maximal exact matches (MEMs) into the graph nodes. We demonstrate the utility of splitMEM by analyzing the pan- genomes of 9 strains of Bacillus anthracis and 9 strains of Escherichia coli to reveal the properties of their core genomes.\n\nAvailability: The source code and documentation are available open- source at http://splitmem.sourceforge.net', u'We sequenced genomes from a ~7,000 year old early farmer from Stuttgart in Germany, an ~8,000 year old hunter-gatherer from Luxembourg, and seven ~8,000 year old hunter-gatherers from southern Sweden. We analyzed these data together with other ancient genomes and 2,345 contemporary humans to show that the great majority of present-day Europeans derive from at least three highly differentiated populations: West European Hunter-Gatherers (WHG), who contributed ancestry to all Europeans but not to Near Easterners; Ancient North Eurasians (ANE), who were most closely related to Upper Paleolithic Siberians and contributed to both Europeans and Near Easterners; and Early European Farmers (EEF), who were mainly of Near Eastern origin but also harbored WHG-related ancestry. We model these populations\' deep relationships and show that EEF had ~44% ancestry from a "Basal Eurasian" lineage that split prior to the diversification of all other non-African lineages.', u'Most evolving populations are subdivided into multiple subpopulations connected to each other by varying levels of gene flow. However, how population structure and gene flow (i.e., migration) affect adaptive evolution is not well understood. Here, we studied the impact of migration on asexually reproducing evolving computer programs (digital organisms). We found that digital organisms evolve the highest fitness values at intermediate migration rates, and we tested three hypotheses that could potentially explain this observation: (i) migration promotes passage through fitness valleys, (ii) migration increases genetic variation, and (iii) migration reduces clonal interference through a process called \x93leapfrogging\x94. We found that migration had no appreciable effect on the number of fitness valleys crossed and that genetic variation declined monotonously with increasing migration rates, instead of peaking at the optimal migration rate. However, the number of leapfrogging events, in which a superior beneficial mutation emerges on a genetic background that predates the previously best genotype in the population, did peak at the optimal migration rate. We thus conclude that in structured, asexual populations intermediate migration rates allow for optimal exploration of multiple, distinct fitness peaks, and thus yield the highest long-term adaptive success.', u'MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small noncoding RNAs that bind to the 3?-UTR of mRNAs and function mainly in post-transcriptional regulation. MiRNAs have been implicated to play roles in organ development, including that of the pancreas. Many miRNAs, such as miR-375, miR-124, miR-7, miR-21 and miR-221, have been shown to regulate insulin production as well as insulin secretion. However, it is not known whether miRNAs can regulate insulin secretion via the control of intracellular Ca2+ in pancreatic beta cells. In this research, expression profiles of miRNAs and mRNAs were investigated using RNA-sequencing and microarray analysis in chicken pancreatic nestin-positive progenitor cells and differentiated pancreatic beta cells. A number of miRNAs were up-regulated after differentiation of progenitors into beta cells, which regulate cell signaling pathways to control cell function. miR-223 and miR146a were shown to promote insulin secretion from pancreatic beta cells by regulating the concentration of intracellular Ca2+ via the down-regulation of their target genes.', u'With the development of next-generation sequencing technologies, many\nlarge scale experimental efforts aim to map genotypic variability among individuals.\nThis natural variability in populations fuels many fundamental biological processes,\nranging from evolutionary adaptation and speciation to the spread of genetic diseases\nand drug resistance. An interesting and important component of this variability is\npresent within the regulatory regions of genes. As these regions evolve, accumulated\nmutations lead to modulation of gene expression, which may have consequences for\nthe phenotype. A simple model system where the link between genetic variability,\ngene regulation and function can be studied in detail is missing. In this article we\ndevelop a model to explore how the sequence of the wild-type lac promoter dictates the\nfold change in gene expression. The model combines single-base pair resolution maps\nof transcription factor and RNA polymerase binding energies with a comprehensive\nthermodynamic model of gene regulation. The model was validated by predicting\nand then measuring the variability of lac operon regulation in a collection of natural\nisolates. We then implement the model to analyze the sensitivity of the promoter\nsequence to the regulatory output, and predict the potential for regulation to evolve\ndue to point mutations in the promoter region.', u'A new computational method of rapid, exhaustive and genome-wide detection of HGT was developed, featuring the systematic analysis of BLAST hit distribution patterns in the context of a priori defined hierarchical evolutionary categories. Genes that fall beyond a series of statistically determined thresholds are identified as not adhering to the typical vertical his-tory of the organisms in question, but instead having a putative horizontal origin. Tests on simulated genomic data suggest that this approach effectively targets atypically distributed genes that are highly likely to be HGT-derived, and exhibits robust performance compared to conventional BLAST-based approaches. This method was further tested on real genomic datasets, including Rickettsia genomes, and was compared to previous studies. Results show consistency with currently employed cat-egories of HGT prediction methods. In-depth analysis of both simulated and real genomic data suggests that the method is no-tably insensitive to stochastic events such as gene loss, rate variation and database error, which are common challenges to the current methodology. An automated pipeline was created to implement this approach and was made publicly available at: https://github.com/DittmarLab/HGTector. The program is versatile, easily deployed, has low requirements for computation-al resources, and is an effective tool for initial or standalone large-scale discovery of candidate HGT-derived genes.', u'M\xfcllerian mimicry among Neotropical Heliconiini butterflies is an excellent example of natural selection, and is associated with the diversification of a large continental-scale radiation. Some of the processes driving the evolution of mimicry rings are likely to generate incongruent phylogenetic signals across the assemblage, and thus pose a challenge for systematics. We use a dataset of 22 mitochondrial and nuclear markers from 92% of species in the tribe to re-examine the phylogeny of Heliconiini with both supermatrix and multi-species coalescent approaches, characterise the patterns of conflicting signal and compare the performance of various methodological approaches to reflect the heterogeneity across the data. Despite the large extent of reticulate signal and strong conflict between markers, nearly identical topologies are consistently recovered by most of the analyses, although the supermatrix approach fails to reflect the underlying variation in the history of individual loci. The first comprehensive, time-calibrated phylogeny of this group is used to test the hypotheses of a diversification rate increase driven by the dramatic environmental changes in the Amazonia over the past 23 million years, or changes caused by diversity-dependent effects on the rate of diversification. We find that the tribe Heliconiini had doubled its rate of speciation around 11 Ma and that the presently most speciose genus Heliconius started diversifying rapidly at 10 Ma, likely in response to the recent drastic changes in topography of the region. Our study provides comprehensive evidence for a rapid adaptive radiation among an important insect radiation in the most biodiverse region of the planet.', u'A fundamental goal of systems neuroscience is to probe the dynamics of neural activity that drive behavior. Here we present an instrument to simultaneously manipulate neural activity via Channelrhodopsin, monitor neural response via GCaMP3, and observes behavior in freely moving C. elegans. We use the instrument to directly observe the relation between sensory stimuli, interneuron activity and locomotion in the mechanosensory circuit. Now published as: Front Neural Circuits 8:28, doi:10.3389/fncir.2014.00028', u'The use of high throughput genome-sequencing technologies has uncovered a large extent of structural variation in eukaryotic genomes that makes important contributions to genomic diversity and phenotypic variation. Currently, when the genomes of different strains of a given organism are compared, whole genome resequencing data are aligned to an established reference sequence. However when the reference differs in significant structural ways from the individuals under study, the analysis is often incomplete or inaccurate.  Here, we use rice as a model to explore the extent of structural variation among strains adapted to different ecologies and geographies, and show that this variation can be significant, often matching or exceeding the variation present in closely related human populations or other mammals. We demonstrate how improvements in sequencing and assembly technology allow rapid and inexpensive de novo assembly of next generation sequence data into high-quality assemblies that can be directly compared to provide an unbiased assessment. Using this approach, we are able to accurately assess the ?pan-genome? of three divergent rice varieties and document several megabases of each genome absent in the other two. Many of the genome-specific loci are annotated to contain genes, reflecting the potential for new biological properties that would be missed by standard resequencing approaches. We further provide a detailed analysis of several loci associated with agriculturally important traits, illustrating the utility of our approach for biological discovery. All of the data and software are openly available to support further breeding and functional studies of rice and other species.', u'Organisms have increased in complexity through a series of major evolutionary transitions, in which formerly autonomous entities become parts of a novel higher-level entity. One intriguing feature of the higher-level entity after some major transitions is a division of reproductive labor among its lower-level units. Although it can have clear benefits once established, it is unknown how such reproductive division of labor originates. We consider a recent evolution experiment on the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a unique platform to address the issue of reproductive differentiation during an evolutionary transition in individuality. In the experiment, independent yeast lineages evolved a multicellular \x93snowflake-like\x94 cluster form in response to gravity selection. Shortly after the evolution of clusters, the yeast evolved higher rates of cell death. While cell death enables clusters to split apart and form new groups, it also reduces their performance in the face of gravity selection. To understand the selective value of increased cell death, we create a mathematical model of the cellular arrangement within snowflake yeast clusters. The model reveals that the mechanism of cell death and the geometry of the snowflake interact in complex, evolutionarily important ways. We find that the organization of snowflake yeast imposes powerful limitations on the available space for new cell growth. By dying more frequently, cells in clusters avoid encountering space limitations, and, paradoxically, reach higher numbers. In addition, selection for particular group sizes can explain the increased rate of apoptosis both in terms of total cell number and total numbers of collectives. Thus, by considering the geometry of a primitive multicellular organism we can gain insight into the initial emergence of reproductive division of labor during an evolutionary transition in individuality.', u'It has been shown that optimal controller synthesis for positive systems can be formulated as a linear program. Leveraging these results, we propose a scalable iterative algorithm for the systematic design of sparse, small gain feedback strategies that stabilize the evolutionary dynamics of a generic disease model.  We achieve the desired feedback structure by augmenting the optimization problems with l1 and l2 regularization terms, and illustrate our method on an example inspired by an experimental study aimed at finding appropriate HIV neutralizing antibody therapy combinations in the presence of escape mutants.', u'Invasive Asian bighead and silver carp (Hypophthalmichthys nobilis and H. molitrix) pose a substantial threat to North American waterways.  Recently, environmental DNA (eDNA), the use of species-specific genetic assays to detect the DNA of a particular species in a water sample, has gained recognition as a tool for tracking the invasion front of these species toward the Great Lakes. The goal of this study was to develop new species-specific conventional PCR (cPCR) and quantitative (qPCR) markers for detection of these species in North American waterways. We first generated complete mitochondrial genome sequences from 33 bighead and 29 silver carp individuals collected throughout their introduced range.  These sequences were aligned with other common and closely related species to identify potential eDNA markers. We then field-tested these genetic markers for species-specificity and sensitivity in environmental samples. Newly developed markers performed well in field trials, had low false positive rates and had comparable sensitivity compared to current markers. The new markers developed in this study greatly expand the number of species-specific genetic markers available to track the invasion front of bighead and silver carp, and can be used to improve the resolution of these assays.  Additionally, the use of the qPCR markers developed in this study may reduce sample processing time and cost of eDNA monitoring for these species.', u'Cell navigation is directed by inhomogeneous distributions of extracellular cues. It is well known that noise plays a key role in biology and is present in naturally occurring gradients at the micro- and nanoscale, yet it has not been studied with gradients in vitro. Here, we introduce novel algorithms to produce ordered and random gradients of discrete nanodots \x96 called digital nanodot gradients (DNGs) \x96 according to monotonic and non-monotonic density functions. The algorithms generate continuous DNGs, with dot spacing changing in two dimensions along the gradient direction according to arbitrary mathematical functions, with densities ranging from 0.02% to 44.44%. The random gradient algorithm compensates for random nanodot overlap, and the randomness and spatial homogeneity of the DNGs were confirmed with Ripley\x92s K function. An array of 100 DNGs, each 400 \xd7 400 \xb5m2, comprising a total of 57 million 200 \xd7 200 nm2 dots was designed and patterned into silicon using electron-beam lithography, then patterned as fluorescently labeled IgGs on glass using lift-off nanocontact printing. DNGs will facilitate the study of the effects of noise and randomness at the micro- and nanoscales on cell migration and growth.', u'Motivation: The reference CRAM file format implementation is in Java. We present "Scramble": a new C implementation of SAM, BAM and CRAM file I/O.\nResults: The C API for CRAM is 1.5-1.7x slower than BAM at decoding, but 1.8-2.6x faster at encoding. We see file size savings of 40-50%.\nAvailability: Source code is available from http://sourceforge.net/projects/staden/files/io lib/\nContact: jkb@sanger.ac.uk', u'Activation of the NADPH oxidase (NOX2) of the phagocytic vacuole of neutrophils is essential for innate immunity. Sustained activity of the oxidase requires that charge movements across the membrane are balanced. A role for the proton channel, HVCN1, has been proposed but not proven. Using the ratiometric pH indicator SNARF, introduced into the cytosol and separately into the vacuole coupled to Candida, we used confocal microscopy to measure changes in pH in these two compartments in human and mouse neutrophils. Shortly after phagocytosis by human cells, the vacuolar pH rose to 9, at which it was maintained for ~20 minutes, while the cytosol showed a small acidification of ~0.25 pH unit. Alkalinisation has important consequences for the microbicidal and digestive functions of vacuolar enzymes. In HVCN1 knock out mouse neutrophils, the phagocytosis induced respiratory burst was halved to ~3 fmols per Candida, the vacuolar pH rose to >11 and the cytosol acidified excessively to pH ~6.75. These changes were prevented by the protonophore CCCP. The rate of extrusion of protons into the extracellular medium following phagocytosis was not significantly different from wild type neutrophils suggesting that cytoplasmic acidification resulted from the loss of the proton sink into the vacuole. HVCN1 phagocytic vacuoles showed considerable swelling, and this was blocked by CCCP and decreased by valinomycin. Stoichiometric considerations indicated that the HVCN1 channel compensates 90-95% of the oxidase-induced charge in normal cells, and in its absence, charge is carried by ions other than protons, including K+.', u'Despite the widely held position that the social insects have evolved effective ways to limit infectious disease spread, many pathogens and parasites do attack insect societies. Maintaining a disease-free nest environment is an important evolutionary feature, but since workers have to leave the nest to forage they are routinely exposed to disease. Here we show that despite effective social immunity, in which workers act collectively to reduce disease inside the nest, 100% of studied ant colonies of Camponotus rufipes in a Brazilian Rainforest were infected by the specialized fungal parasite Ophiocordyceps unilateralis s.l. Not only is disease present for all colonies but long-term dynamics over 20 months revealed disease is a permanent feature. Using 3D maps, we showed the parasite optimizes its transmission by controlling workers\x92 behavior to die on the doorstep of the colony, where susceptible foragers are predictable in time and space. Therefore, despite social immunity, specialized diseases of ants have evolved effective strategies to exploit insect societies.', u'A major challenge in materials science is to create self-assembling, functional, and environmentally responsive materials which can be patterned across multiple length scales. Natural biological systems, such as biofilms, shells, and skeletal tissues, implement dynamic regulatory programs to assemble complex multiscale materials comprised of living and non-living components. Such systems can provide inspiration for the design of heterogeneous functional systems which integrate biotic and abiotic materials via hierarchical self-assembly. Here, we present a synthetic-biology platform for synthesizing and patterning self-assembled functional amyloid materials across multiple length scales with bacterial biofilms. We engineered Escherichia coli curli amyloid production under the tight control of synthetic regulatory circuits and interfaced amyloids with inorganic materials to create a biofilm-based electrical switch whose conductance can be selectively toggled by specific environmental signals. Furthermore, we externally tuned synthetic biofilms to build nanoscale amyloid biomaterials with different structure and composition through the controlled expression of their constituent subunits with artificial gene circuits. By using synthetic cell-cell communication, our engineered biofilms can also autonomously manufacture dynamic materials whose structure and composition change with time. In addition, we show that by combining subunit-level protein engineering, controlled genetic expression of self-assembling subunit proteins, and macroscale spatial gradients, synthetic biofilms can pattern protein biomaterials across multiple length scales. This work lays a foundation for synthesizing, patterning, and controlling composite materials with engineered biological systems. We envision that this approach can be expanded to other cellular and biomaterials contexts for the construction of self-organizing, environmentally responsive, and tunable multiscale composite materials with heterogeneous functionalities. Now published as: Nature Materials, doi:10.1038/nmat3912', u'Plant innate immunity is mediated by pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) and intracellular NB-LRR (nucleotide-binding domain and leucine-rich repeat) proteins. Overexpression of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) chaperone, luminal-binding protein 3 (BiP3) compromises resistance to Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) mediated by the rice PRR XA21 (Park et al., PLoS ONE 5(2): e9262). Here we show that BiP3 overexpression also compromises resistance mediated by rice XA3, a PRR that provides broad-spectrum resistance to Xoo. In contrast, BiP3 overexpression has no effect on resistance mediated by rice Pi5, an NB-LRR protein that confers resistance to the fungal pathogen Magnaporthe oryzae (M. oryzae). Our results suggest that rice BiP3 regulates membrane-resident PRR-mediated immunity.', u'The type II CRISPR/Cas system has recently emerged as a powerful method to manipulate the genomes of various organisms. Here, we report a novel toolbox for high efficiency genome engineering of Drosophila melanogaster consisting of transgenic Cas9 lines and versatile guide RNA (gRNA) expression plasmids. Systematic evaluation reveals Cas9 lines with ubiquitous or germline restricted patterns of activity. We also demonstrate differential activity of the same gRNA expressed from different U6 snRNA promoters, with the previously untested U6:3 promoter giving the most potent effect. Choosing an appropriate combination of Cas9 and gRNA allows targeting of essential and non-essential genes with transmission rates ranging from 25% - 100%. We also provide evidence that our optimized CRISPR/Cas tools can be used for offset nicking-based mutagenesis and, in combination with oligonucleotide donors, to precisely edit the genome by homologous recombination with efficiencies that do not require the use of visible markers. Lastly, we demonstrate a novel application of CRISPR/Cas-mediated technology in revealing loss-of-function phenotypes in somatic cells following efficient biallelic targeting by Cas9 expressed in a ubiquitous or tissue-restricted manner. In summary, our CRISPR/Cas tools will facilitate the rapid evaluation of mutant phenotypes of specific genes and the precise modification of the genome with single nucleotide precision. Our results also pave the way for high throughput genetic screening with CRISPR/Cas.', u'Most bioscientists need to report mean values, yet many have little idea of how many digits are significant, and at what point further digits are mere random junk. Thus a recent report that the mean of 17 values was 3.863 with a standard error of the mean (SEM) of  2.162 revealed only that none of the seven authors understood the limitations of their work. The simple rule derived here by experiment for restricting a mean value to its significant digits (sig-digs) is this:  the last sig\u2011dig in the mean value is at the same decimal decade as the first sig-dig (the first non-zero) in the SEM. An extended rule for the mean, and a different rule for the SEM itself are also derived. For the example above the reported values should be a mean of 4 with SEM 2.2. Routine application of these simple rules will often show that a result is not as compelling as one had hoped.', u'We have developed and validated an amplification-free method for generating DNA sequencing libraries from very low amounts of input DNA (500 picograms - 20 nanograms) for single-molecule sequencing on the Pacific Biosciences (PacBio) RS II sequencer.  The common challenge of high input requirements for single-molecule sequencing is overcome by using a carrier DNA in conjunction with optimized sequencing preparation conditions and re-use of the MagBead-bound complex.  Here we describe how this method can be used to produce sequencing yields comparable to those generated from standard input amounts, but by using 1000-fold less starting material.', u"Coronary artery disease (CAD) is a complex disease driven by myriad interactions of genetics and environmental factors. Traditionally, studies have analyzed only one disease factor at a time, providing useful but limited understanding of the underlying etiology. Recent advances in cost-effective and high-throughput technologies, such as single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) genotyping, exome/genome sequencing, gene expression microarrays and metabolomics assays have enabled the collection of millions of data points in many thousands of individuals. In order to make sense of such 'omics' data, effective analytical methods are needed. We review and highlight some of the main results in this area, focusing on integrative approaches that consider multiple modalities simultaneously. Such analyses have the potential to uncover the genetic basis of CAD, produce genomic risk scores (GRS) for disease prediction, disentangle the complex interactions underlying disease, and predict response to treatment.", u'Genetic information contains a record of the history of our species, and technological advances have transformed our ability to access this record. Many studies have used genome-wide data from populations today to learn about the peopling of the globe and subsequent adaptation to local conditions. Implicit in this research is the assumption that the geographic locations of people today are informative about the geographic locations of their ancestors in the distant past. However, it is now clear that long-range migration, admixture and population replacement have been the rule rather than the exception in human history. In light of this, we argue that it is time to critically re-evaluate current views of the peopling of the globe and the importance of natural selection in determining the geographic distribution of phenotypes. We specifically highlight the transformative potential of ancient DNA. By accessing the genetic make-up of populations living at archaeologically-known times and places, ancient DNA makes it possible to directly track migrations and responses to natural selection.', u'Following the binding of transcription factors (TF) to specific regions, chromatin remodeling including alterations in nucleosome positioning (NP) occurs. These changes in NP cause selective gene expression to determine cell function. However whether specific NP patterns upon TF binding determine the transcriptional regulation such as gene activation or suppression is unclear. Here we identified five patterns of NP around TF binding sites (TFBSs) using fixed MNase-Seq analysis. The most frequently observed NP pattern described the transcription state. The five patterns explained approximately 80% of the whole NP pattern on the genome in mouse C2C12 cells. We further performed ChIP-Seq using the input obtained from the fixed MNase-Seq. The result showed that a single trial of ChIP-Seq could visualize the NP patterns around the TFBS and predict the function of the transcriptional regulation at the same time. These findings indicate that NP can directly predict the function of TFs.', u'Here we present the first genome wide statistical test for recessive selection. This test uses explicitly non-equilibrium demographic differences between populations to infer the mode of selection. By analyzing the transient response to a population bottleneck and subsequent re-expansion, we qualitatively distinguish between alleles under additive and recessive selection. We analyze the response of the average number of deleterious mutations per haploid individual and describe time dependence of this quantity. We introduce a statistic, BR, to compare the number of mutations in different populations and detail its functional dependence on the strength of selection and the intensity of the population bottleneck. This test can be used to detect the predominant mode of selection on the genome wide or regional level, as well as among a sufficiently large set of medically or functionally relevant alleles.', u'Classification of large grass genome sequences has major challenges in functional genomes. The presence of motifs in grass genome chains can make the prediction of the functional behavior of grass genome possible. The correlation between grass genome properties and their motifs is not always obvious, since more than one motif may exist within a genome chain. Due to the complexity of this association most pattern classification algorithms are either vain or time consuming. Attempted to a reduction of high dimensional data that utilizes DAC technique is presented. Data are disjoining into equal multiple sets while preserving the original data distribution in each set. Then, multiple modules are created by using the data sets as independent training sets and classified into respective modules. Finally, the modules are combined to produce the final classification rules, containing all the previously extracted information. The methodology is tested using various grass genome data sets. Results indicate that the time efficiency of our algorithm is improved compared to other known data mining algorithms.', u'Stochastic switching is an example of phenotypic bet-hedging, where an individual can switch between different phenotypic states in a fluctuating environment. Although the evolution of stochastic switching has been studied when the environment varies temporally, there has been little theoretical work on the evolution of phenotypic switching under both spatially and temporally fluctuating selection pressures. Here we use a population genetic model to explore the interaction of temporal and spatial variation in the evolutionary dynamics of phenotypic switching. We find that spatial variation in selection is important; when selection pressures are similar across space, migration can decrease the rate of switching, but when selection pressures differ spatially, increasing migration between demes can facilitate the evolution of higher rates of switching.  These results may help explain the diverse array of non-genetic contributions to phenotypic variability and phenotypic inheritance observed in both wild and experimental populations.', u'Changes in gene regulation level have long been thought to play an important role in evolution and speciation, especially in primates. Over the past decade, comparative genomic studies have revealed extensive inter-species differences in gene expression levels yet we know much less about the extent to which regulatory mechanisms differ between species. To begin addressing this gap, we performed a comparative epigenetic study in primate lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs), to query the contribution of RNA polymerase II (Pol II) and four histone modifications (H3K4me1, H3K4me3, H3K27ac, and H3K27me3) to inter-species variation in gene expression levels. We found that inter-species differences in mark enrichment near transcription start sites are significantly more often associated with inter-species differences in the corresponding gene expression level than expected by chance alone. Interestingly, we also found that first-order interactions among the histone marks and Pol II do not markedly contribute to the degree of association between the marks and inter-species variation in gene expression levels, suggesting that the marginal effects of the five marks dominate this contribution.', u'Thrombopoietin (TPO) acting via its receptor Mpl is the major cytokine regulator of platelet number. To precisely define the role of specific hematopoietic cells in TPO dependent hematopoiesis, we generated mice that express the Mpl receptor normally on stem/progenitor cells but lack expression on megakaryocytes and platelets (MplPF4cre/PF4cre.  MplPF4cre/PF4cre mice displayed profound megakaryocytosis and thrombocytosis with a remarkable expansion of megakaryocyte-committed and multipotential progenitor cells, the latter displaying biological responses and a gene expression signature indicative of chronic TPO over-stimulation as the underlying causative mechanism, despite a normal circulating TPO level. Thus, TPO signaling in megakaryocytes is dispensable for platelet production; its key role in control of platelet number is via generation and stimulation of the bipotential megakaryocyte precursors. Nevertheless, Mpl expression on megakaryocytes and platelets is essential to prevent megakaryocytosis and myeloproliferation by restricting the amount of TPO available to stimulate the production of megakaryocytes from the progenitor cell pool.', u'RNA regulators are emerging as powerful tools to engineer synthetic genetic networks or rewire existing ones. A potential strength of RNA networks is that they may be able to propagate signals on timescales that are set by the fast degradation rates of RNAs. However, a current bottleneck to verifying this potential is the slow design-build-test cycle of evaluating these networks in vivo. Here we adapt an Escherichia coli-based cell- free transcription-translation (TX-TL) system for rapidly prototyping RNA networks. We used this system to measure the response time of an RNA transcription cascade to be approximately five minutes per step of the cascade. We also show that this response time can be adjusted with temperature and regulator threshold response tuning. Finally we use TX-TL to prototype a new RNA network, an RNA single input module, and show that this network temporally stages the expression of two genes in vivo. Now published as: ACS Synthetic Biology doi:10.1021/sb400206c', u'Apicomplexan parasites are thought to actively invade the host cell by gliding motility. This movement is powered by the parasite own actomyosin system and depends on the regulated polymerisation and depolymerisation of actin to generate the force for gliding and host cell penetration. Recent studies demonstrated that Toxoplasma gondii can invade the host cell in the absence of several core components of the invasion machinery, such as the motor protein myosin A (MyoA), the microneme proteins MIC2 and AMA1 and actin, indicating the presence of alternative invasion mechanisms. Here the roles of MyoA, MLC1, GAP45 and Act1, core components of the gliding machinery, are re-dissected in detail. Although important roles of these components for gliding motility and host cell invasion are verified, mutant parasites remain invasive and do not show a block of gliding motility, suggesting that other mechanisms must be in place to enable the parasite to move and invade the host cell. A novel, hypothetical model for parasite gliding motility and invasion is presented based on osmotic forces generated in the cytosol of the parasite that are converted into motility. Now published as: PLOS One, doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0091819', u'Loss-of-function variants in innate immunity genes are associated with Mendelian disorders in the form of primary immunodeficiencies. Recent resequencing projects report that stop-gains and frameshifts are collectively prevalent in humans and could be responsible for some of the inter-individual variability in innate immune response. Current computational approaches evaluating loss-of-function in genes carrying these variants rely on gene-level characteristics such as evolutionary conservation and functional redundancy across the genome. However, innate immunity genes represent a particular case because they are more likely to be under positive selection and duplicated. To create a ranking of severity that would be applicable to the innate immunity genes we first evaluated 17764 stop-gain and 13915 frameshift variants from the NHLBI Exome Sequencing Project and 1000 Genomes Project. Sequence-based features such as loss of functional domains, isoform-specific truncation and non-sense mediated decay were found to correlate with variant allele frequency and validated with gene expression data. We integrated these features in a Bayesian classification scheme and benchmarked its use in predicting pathogenic variants against OMIM disease stop-gains and frameshifts. The classification scheme was applied in the assessment of 335 stop-gains and 236 frameshifts affecting 227 interferon-stimulated genes. The sequence-based score ranks variants in innate immunity genes according to their potential to cause disease, and complements existing gene-based pathogenicity scores.', u'Bartonellae are mammalian pathogens vectored by blood-feeding arthropods. Although of increasing medical importance, little is known about their ecological past, and host associations are underexplored. Previous studies suggest an influence of horizontal gene transfers in ecological niche colonization by acquisition of host pathogenicity genes. We here expand these analyses to metabolic pathways of 28 Bartonella genomes, and experimentally explore the distribution of bartonellae in 21 species of blood-feeding arthropods. Across genomes, repeated gene losses and horizontal gains in the phospholipid pathway were found. The evolutionary timing of these patterns suggests functional consequences likely leading to an early intracellular lifestyle for stem bartonellae. Comparative phylogenomic analyses discover three independent lineage-specific reacquisitions of a core metabolic gene - NAD(P)H-dependent glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (gpsA) - from Gammaproteobacteria and Epsilonproteobacteria. Transferred genes are significantly closely related to invertebrate Arsenophonus-, and Serratia-like endosymbionts, and mammalian Helicobacter-like pathogens, supporting a cellular association with arthropods and mammals at the base of extant bartonellae. Our studies suggest that the horizontal re-aquisitions had a key impact on bartonellae lineage specific ecological and functional evolution.', u'This paper presents and tests a previously unrecognised mechanism for driving a replicating molecular system on the prebiotic earth. It is proposed that cell-free RNA replication in the primordial soup may have been driven by self-sustained oscillatory thermochemical reactions. To test this hypothesis a well-characterised hydrogen peroxide oscillator was chosen as the driver and complementary RNA strands with known association and melting kinetics were used as the substrate. An open flow system model for the self-consistent, coupled evolution of the temperature and concentrations in a simple autocatalytic scheme is solved numerically, and it is shown that thermochemical cycling drives replication of the RNA strands. For the (justifiably realistic) values of parameters chosen for the simulated example system, the mean amount of replicant produced at steady state is 6.56 times the input amount, given a constant supply of substrate species. The spontaneous onset of sustained thermochemical oscillations via slowly drifting parameters is demonstrated, and a scheme is given for prebiotic production of complementary RNA strands on rock surfaces.', u'Technological advancement has opened the door to systematic genetics in mammalian cells. Genome-scale loss-of-function screens can assay fitness defects induced by partial gene knockdown, using RNA interference, or complete gene knockout, using new CRISPR techniques. These screens can reveal the basic blueprint required for cellular proliferation. Moreover, comparing healthy to cancerous tissue can uncover genes that are essential only in the tumor; these genes are targets for the development of specific anticancer therapies. Unfortunately, progress in this field has been hampered by off-target effects of perturbation reagents and poorly quantified error rates in large-scale screens. To improve the quality of information derived from these screens, and to provide a framework for understanding the capabilities and limitations of CRISPR technology, we derive gold-standard reference sets of essential and nonessential genes, and provide a Bayesian classifier of gene essentiality that outperforms current methods on both RNAi and CRISPR screens. Our results indicate that CRISPR technology is more sensitive than RNAi, and that both techniques have nontrivial false discovery rates that can be mitigated by rigorous analytical methods.', u'-----------------------ABSTRACT_FOR_SCIENTISTS----------------------- While decades of cancer research have firmly established multiple "hallmarks of cancer", cancer\'s genomic landscape remains to be fully understood. Particularly, the phenomenon of aneuploidy - gains and losses of large genomic regions, i.e. whole chromosomes or chromosome arms - and why most cancer cells are aneuploid remains enigmatic. Another frequent observation in many different types of cancer is the deregulation of the homeostasis of the trace elements copper, zinc and iron. Concentrations of copper are markedly increased in cancer tissue and the blood plasma of cancer patients, while zinc levels are typically decreased. Here we discuss the hypothesis that the disruption of trace element homeostasis and the phenomenon of aneuploidy might be linked. Our tentative analysis of genomic data from diverse tumor types mainly from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) project suggests that gains and losses of metal transporter genes occur frequently and correlate well with transporter gene expression levels. Hereby they may confer a cancer-driving selective growth advantage at early and possibly also later stages during cancer development. This idea is consistent with recent observations in yeast, which suggest that through chromosomal gains and losses cells can adapt quickly to new carbon sources, nutrient starvation as well as to copper toxicity. In human cancer development, candidate driving events may include, among others, the gains of zinc transporter genes SLC39A1 and SLC39A4 on chromosome arms 1q and 8q, respectively, and the losses of zinc transporter genes SLC30A5, SLC39A14 and SLC39A6 on 5q, 8p and 18q. The recurrent gain of 3q might be associated with the iron transporter gene TFRC and the loss of 13q with the copper transporter gene ATP7B. By altering cellular trace element homeostasis such events might contribute to the initiation of the malignant transformation. Intriguingly, attenuation or overexpression of several of these metal transporter genes has been shown to lead to malignant cellular behavior in vitro. Consistently, it has been shown that zinc affects a number of the observed "hallmarks of cancer" characteristics including DNA repair, inflammation and apoptosis, e.g. through its effects on NF-kappa B signaling. We term this model the "aneuploidy metal transporter cancer" (AMTC) hypothesis and find it compatible with the cancer-promoting role of point mutations and focal copy number alterations in established tumor suppressor genes and oncogenes (e.g. MYC, MYCN, TP53, PIK3CA, BRCA1, ERBB2). We suggest a number of approaches for how this hypothesis could be tested experimentally and briefly touch on possible implications for cancer etiology, metastasis, drug resistance and therapy.\n-----------------------ABSTRACT_FOR_KIDS-----------------------  We humans are made up of many very small building blocks, which are called cells. These cells can be seen with a microscope and they know how to grow and what to do from the information on the DNA of their chromosomes. Sometimes, if this information is messed up, a cell can go crazy and start to grow without control, even in places of the body where it should not. This process is called cancer, a terrible disease that makes people very sick. Scientists do not understand exactly what causes cells to go crazy, so it would be good to find out. Many years ago, scientists observed that chromosomes in these cancer cells are missing or doubled but could not find an explanation for it. More recently, scientists have detected that precious metals to our bodies, which are not gold and silver, but zinc, iron and copper, are not found in the right amounts in these crazy cancer cells. There seems to be not enough zinc and iron but too much copper, and again, scientists do not really understand why. So there are many unanswered questions about these crazy cancer cells and in this article, we describe a pretty simple idea on how chromosome numbers and the metals might be connected: we think that the missing or doubled chromosomes produce less or more transporters of zinc, iron and copper. As a result, cancer cells end up with little zinc and too much copper and these changes contribute to their out-of-control growth. If this idea were true, many people would be excited about it. But first this idea needs to be investigated more deeply in the laboratory, on the computer and in the hospitals. Therefore, we put it out on the internet so that other people can also think about and work on our idea. Now there are plenty of ways to do exciting experiments and with the results, we will hopefully understand much better why cancer cells go crazy and how doctors could improve their therapies to help patients in the future.\n-----------------------ABSTRACT_FOR_ADULTS----------------------- One hundred years ago, it was suggested that cancer is a disease of the chromosomes, based on the observations that whole chromosomes or chromosome arms are missing or duplicated in the genomes of cells in a tumor. This phenomenon is called "aneuploidy" and is observed in most types of cancer, including breast, lung, prostate, brain and other cancers. However, it is not clear which genes could be responsible for this observation or if this phenomenon is only a side effect of cancer without importance, so it is important to find out. A second observation from basic research is that concentrations of several micronutrients, especially of the trace elements zinc, copper and iron are changed in tumor cells. In this article, we speculate that aneuploidy is the reason for these changes and that together, these two phenomena are responsible for some of the famous hallmarks or characteristics that are known from cancer cells: fast growth, escape from destruction by the immune system and poor DNA repair. This idea is new and has not been tested yet. We name it the "aneuploidy metal transporter cancer" (AMTC) hypothesis. To test our idea we used a wealth of information that was shared by international projects such as the Human Genome Project or the Cancer Genome Atlas Project. Indeed, we find that many zinc, iron and copper transporter genes in the genome are affected by aneuploidy. While a healthy cell has two copies of each gene, some tumor cells have only one or three copies of these genes. Furthermore, the amounts of protein and the activities of these metal transporters seem to correlate with these gene copy numbers, at least we see that the intermediate molecules and protein precursors called messenger RNA correlate well. Hence, we found that the public data is compatible with our suggested link between metal transporters and cancer. Furthermore, we identified hundreds of studies on zinc biology, evolutionary biology, genome and cancer research that also seem compatible. For example, cancer risk increases in the elderly population as well as in obese people, it also increases after certain bacterial or viral infections and through alcohol consumption. Consistent with the AMTC hypothesis and in particular, the idea that external changes in zinc concentrations in an organ or tissue may kick off the earliest steps of tumor development, all of these risk factors have been correlated with changes in zinc or other trace elements.  However, since additional experiments to test the AMTC hypothesis have not yet been performed, direct evidence for our hypothesis is still missing. We hope, however, that our idea will promote further research with the goal to better understand cancer - as a first step towards its prevention and the development of improved anti-cancer therapies in the future.', u'The human genome is segmented into Topologically Associating Domains (TADs), but the role of this conserved organization during transient changes in gene expression is not known. Here we described the distribution of Progestin-induced chromatin modifications and changes in transcriptional activity over TADs in T47D breast cancer cells. Using ChIP-Seq, Hi-C and 3D modelling techniques, we found that the borders of the ~2,000 TADs in these cells are largely maintained after hormone treatment but that some TADs operate as discrete regulatory units in which the majority of the genes are either transcriptionally activated or repressed upon hormone stimulus. The epigenetic signatures of the TADs are coordinately modified by hormone in correlation with the transcriptional changes. Hormone-induced changes in gene activity and chromatin remodeling are accompanied by differential structural changes for activated and repressed TADs. In response to hormone activated TADs exhibit higher density of internal contacts, while repressed TADs show less intra-TAD contacts. Integrative 3D modelling revealed that TADs structurally expanded if activated and compacted when repressed, and that this is accompanied by differential changes in their global accessibility. We thus propose that TADs function as \x93regulons\x94 to enable spatially proximal genes to be coordinately transcribed in response to hormones.', u'Psychoneuroimmunology studies the increasing number of connections between neurobiology, immunology and behaviour. We establish Drosophila melanogaster as a tractable model in this field by demonstrating the effects of the immune response on two fundamental behaviours: sleep and memory ability.\n We used the Geneswitch system to upregulate peptidoglycan receptor protein (PGRP) expression, thereby stimulating the immune system in the absence of infection. Geneswitch was activated by feeding the steroid RU486, to the flies. We used an aversive classical conditioning paradigm to quantify memory and  measures of activity to infer sleep. \nImmune stimulated flies exhibited reduced levels of sleep, which could not be explained by a generalised increase in waking activity. The effects on sleep were more pronounced for day compared to night sleep.  Immune stimulated flies also showed a reduction in memory abilities. \nThese are important results as they establish Drosophila as a model for immune-neural interactions and provide a possible role for sleep in the interplay between the immune response and memory.', u'Consensus clustering (CC) is an unsupervised class discovery method widely used to study sample heterogeneity in high-dimensional datasets.  It calculates "consensus rate" between any two samples as how frequently they are grouped together in repeated clustering runs under a certain degree of random perturbation. The pairwise consensus rates form a between-sample similarity matrix, which has been used (1) as a visual proof that clusters exist, (2) for comparing stability among clusters, and (3) for estimating the optimal number (K) of clusters. However, the sensitivity and specificity of CC have not been systemically studied.  To assess its performance, we investigated the most common implementations of CC; and compared CC with other popular methods that also focus on cluster stability and estimation of K. We evaluated these methods using simulated datasets with either known structure or known absence of structure. Our results showed that (1) CC was able to divide randomly generated unimodal data into pre-specified numbers of clusters, and was able to show apparent stability of these chance partitions of known cluster-less data; (2) for data with known structure, the proportion of ambiguously clustered (PAC) pairs infers the known number of clusters more reliably than several commonly used K estimating methods; and (3) validation of the optimal K by choosing the most discriminant genes from the discovery cohort and applying them in an independent cohort often exaggerates the confidence in K due to inherent gene-gene correlations among the selected genes. While these results do not yet prove that any of the published studies using CC has generated false positive findings, they show that datasets with subtle or no structure are fully capable of producing strong evidence of consensus clustering. We therefore recommend caution is using CC in class discovery and validation.', u'Principal component analysis (PCA) is routinely used to analyze genome-wide single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) data, for detecting population structure and potential outliers. However, the size of SNP datasets has increased immensely in recent years and PCA of large datasets has become a time consuming task. We have developed flashpca, a highly efficient PCA implementation based on randomized algorithms, which delivers identical accuracy in extracting the top principal components compared with existing tools, in substantially less time. We demonstrate the utility of flashpca on both HapMap3 and on a large Immunochip dataset. For the latter, flashpca performed PCA of 15,000 individuals up to 125 times faster than existing tools, with identical results, and PCA of 150,000 individuals using flashpca completed in 4 hours. The increasing size of SNP datasets will make tools such as flashpca essential as traditional approaches will not adequately scale. This approach will also help to scale other applications that leverage PCA or eigen-decomposition to substantially larger datasets.', u'We describe our first-hand experience with a cochlear implant (CI), being both a recent recipient and a hearing researcher. We note the promising loudness, but very unpleasant distortion, which makes understanding speech difficult in many environments, including in noise, on the phone or through the radio. We also discuss the extreme unpleasantness of music, which makes recognizing familiar melodies very difficult. We investigate the causes of the above problems through mathematical analysis and computer simulations of sound mixtures, and find that surprisingly, the culprit appears to be non-biological in origin, but primarily due to the envelope-based signal processing algorithms currently used. This distortion is generated before the signal even enters the cochlea. Hence, the long-held belief that inter-electrode interference or current spreading is the cause, appears incorrect. We explain that envelope processing may have been originally instituted based on an inaccurate understanding of the role of place coding vs. temporal coding, or alternatively, because of an incorrect analogy to radio modulation theory. On the basis of our analysis, we suggest immediate concrete steps, some possibly in firmware alone, that may lead to a much improved experience.', u'Background: Multiple sequence alignments (MSAs) are a prerequisite for a wide variety of evolutionary analyses. Published assessments and benchmark datasets for protein and, to a lesser extent, global nucleotide MSAs are available, but less effort has been made to establish benchmarks in the more general problem of whole genome alignment (WGA).\nResults: Using the same model as the successful Assemblathon competitions, we organized a competitive evaluation in which teams submitted their alignments, and assessments were performed collectively after all the submissions were received. Three datasets were used: two of simulated primate and mammalian phylogenies, and one of 20 real fly genomes. In total 35 submissions were assessed, submitted by ten teams using 12 different alignment pipelines.\nConclusions: We found agreement between independent simulation-based and statistical assessments, indicating that there are substantial accuracy differences between contemporary alignment tools. We saw considerable difference in the alignment quality of differently annotated regions, and found few tools aligned the duplications analysed. We found many tools worked well at shorter evolutionary distances, but fewer performed competitively at longer distances. We provide all datasets, submissions and assessment programs for further study, and provide, as a resource for future benchmarking, a convenient repository of code and data for reproducing the simulation assessments.', u'Recently, a wealth of epigenomic data has been generated by biochemical assays and next-generation sequencing (NGS) technologies.  In particular, histone modification data generated by the ENCODE project and other large-scale projects show specific patterns associated with regulatory elements in the human genome.It is important to build a unified statistical model to decipher the patterns of multiple histone modifications in a cell type to annotate chromatin states such as transcription start sites, enhancers and transcribed regions rather than to map histone modifications individually to regulatory elements.\nSeveral genome-wide statistical models have been developed based on hidden Markov models (HMMs). These methods typically use the Expectation-Maximization (EM) algorithm to estimate the parameters of the model.Here we used spectral learning, a state-of-the-art parameter estimation algorithm in machine learning.We found that spectral learning plus a few (up to five) iterations of local optimization of the likelihood outperforms the standard EM algorithm.We also evaluated our software implementation called Spectacle on independent biological datasets and found that Spectacle annotated experimentally defined functional elements such as enhancers significantly better than a previous state-of-the-art method.\nSpectacle can be downloaded from https://github.com/jiminsong/Spectacle .', u'The many successes of synthetic biology have come in a manner largely different from those in other engineering disciplines; in particular, without well-characterized and simplified prototyping environments to play a role analogous to wind-tunnels in aerodynamics and breadboards in electrical engineering. However, as the complexity of synthetic circuits increases, the benefits?in cost savings and design cycle time?of a more traditional engineering approach can be significant. We have recently developed an in vitro ?breadboard? prototyping platform based on E. coli cell extract that allows biocircuits to operate in an environment considerably simpler than but functionally similar to in vivo. The simplicity of this system makes it a promising tool for rapid biocircuit design and testing, as well as for probing fundamental aspects of gene circuit operation normally masked by cellular complexity. In this work we characterize the cell-free breadboard using real-time and simultaneous measurements of transcriptional and translational activities of a small set of reporter genes and a transcriptional activation cascade. We determine the effects of promoter strength, gene concentration, and nucleoside triphosphate concentration on biocircuit properties, and we isolate the specific contributions of essential biomolecular resources?core RNA polymerase and ribosomes?to overall performance. Importantly, we show how limits on resources, particularly those involved in translation, are manifested as reduced expression in the presence of orthogonal genes that serve as additional loads on the system.', u'Functional relationship networks, which reveal the collaborative roles between genes, have significantly accelerated our understanding of gene functions and phenotypic relevance. However, establishing such networks for alternatively spliced isoforms remains a difficult, unaddressed problem due to the lack of systematic functional annotations at the isoform level, which renders most supervised learning methods difficult to be applied to isoforms. Here we describe a novel multiple instance learning-based probabilistic approach that integrates large-scale, heterogeneous genomic datasets, including RNA-seq, exon array, protein docking and pseudo-amino acid composition, for modeling a global functional relationship network at the isoform level in the mouse. Using this approach, we formulate a gene pair as a set of isoform pairs of potentially different properties. Through simulation and cross-validation studies, we showed the superior accuracy of our algorithm in revealing the isoform-level functional relationships. The local networks reveal functional diversity of the isoforms of the same gene, as demonstrated by both large-scale analyses and experimental and literature evidence for the disparate functions revealed for the isoforms of Ptbp1 and Anxa6 by our network. Our work can assist the understanding of the diversity of functions achieved by alternative splicing of a limited set of genes in mammalian genomes, and may shift the current gene-centered network prediction paradigm to the isoform level.', u'Directed differentiation of cells in vitro is a powerful approach for dissection of developmental pathways, disease modeling and regenerative medicine, but analysis of such systems is complicated by heterogeneous and asynchronous cellular responses to differentiation-inducing stimuli. To enable deep characterization of heterogeneous cell populations, we developed an efficient digital gene expression profiling protocol that enables surveying of mRNA in thousands of single cells at a time. We then applied this protocol to profile 12,832 cells collected at multiple time points during directed adipogenic differentiation of human adipose-derived stem/stromal cells in vitro. The resulting data reveal the major axes of cell-to-cell variation within and between time points, and an inverse relationship between inflammatory gene expression and lipid accumulation across cells from a single donor.', u'Although variants in the T-cell factor 7-like 2 gene (TCF7L2) confer the strongest risk of type 2 diabetes (T2D) by presumed effects on islet function, the underlying mechanisms are not well understood. We have identified TCF7L2-target genes and described the regulatory network downstream of TCF7L2 responsible for its effect on insulin secretion in rodents and human pancreatic islets. ISL1 is a direct target of TCF7L2 and regulates proinsulin production and processing via MAFA, PDX1, NKX6.1, PCSK1 and PCSK2 and possibly clearance of proinsulin via SLC30A8. Taken together, these results demonstrate that not only synthesis of proinsulin is regulated by TCF7L2, but also processing and possibly clearance of proinsulin and insulin in a genotype dependent manner. These multiple targets in key pathways may explain why TCF7L2 has emerged as the gene showing the strongest association with T2D.', u'Ribo-Seq maps the location of translating ribosomes on mature mRNA transcripts. While ribosome density is constant along the length of the mRNA coding region, it can be altered by translational regulatory events. In this study, we developed a method to detect translational regulation of individual mRNAs from their ribosome profiles, utilizing changes in ribosome density. We used mathematical modelling to show that changes in ribosome density should occur along the mRNA at the point of regulation. We analyzed a Ribo-Seq dataset obtained for mouse embryonic stem cells and showed that normalization by corresponding RNA-Seq can be used to improve the Ribo-Seq quality by removing bias introduced by deep-sequencing and alignment artefacts. After normalization, we applied a change point algorithm to detect changes in ribosome density present in individual mRNA ribosome profiles. Additional sequence and gene isoform information obtained from the UCSC Genome Browser allowed us to further categorize the detected changes into different mechanisms of regulation. In particular, we detected several mRNAs with known post-transcriptional regulation, e.g. premature termination for selenoprotein mRNAs and translational control of Atf4, but also several more mRNAs with hitherto unknown translational regulation. Additionally, our approach proved useful for identification of new gene isoforms.', u'1.\tA high immediate mortality rate of released animals is an important cause of translocation failure (\x93release cost\x94). Post-release dispersal (i.e. the movements from the release site to the first breeding site) has recently been identified as another source of local translocation failure. In spite of their potential effects on conservation program outcomes, little is known about the quantitative effects of these two sources of translocation failure and their interactions with environmental factors and management designs. \n2.\tBased on long-term monitoring data of captive-bred North African houbara bustards (hereafter, houbaras) over large spatial scales, we investigated the relative effects of release (e.g., release group size, period of release), individual (e.g., sex and body condition) and meteorological (e.g., temperature and rainfall) conditions on post-release survival (N = 957 houbaras) and dispersal (N = 436 houbaras). \n3.\tWe found that (i) rainfall and ambient air temperature had respectively a negative and a positive effect on houbara post-release dispersal distance, (ii) in interaction with the release period, harsh meteorological conditions had negative impact on the survival of houbaras, (iii) density dependent processes influenced the pattern of departure from the release site and (iv) post-release dispersal distance was male-biased, as natal dispersal of wild birds (although the dispersal patterns and movements may be influenced by different processes in captive-bred and in wild birds). \n4.\tSynthesis and applications. Overall, our results demonstrate that post-release dispersal and mortality costs in translocated species may be mediated by meteorological factors, which in turn can be buffered by the release method. As the consequences of translocation programs on population dynamics depend primarily upon release costs and colonisation process, we suggest that their potential interactions with meteorological conditions be carefully addressed in future programs.', u'Immigration can rescue local populations from extinction, helping to stabilise a metapopulation. Local population dynamics is important for determining the strength of this rescue effect, but the mechanistic link between local demographic parameters and the rescue effect at the metapopulation level has received very little attention by modellers. We develop an analytical framework that allows us to describe the emergence of the rescue effect from interacting local stochastic dynamics. We show this framework to be applicable to a wide range of spatial scales, providing a powerful and convenient alternative to individual-based models for making predictions concerning the fate of metapopulations. We show that the rescue effect plays an important role in minimising the increase in local extinction probability associated with high demographic stochasticity, but its role is more limited in the case of high local environmental stochasticity of recruitment or survival. While most models postulate the rescue effect, our framework provides an explicit mechanistic link between local dynamics and the emergence of the rescue effect, and more generally the stability of the whole metapopulation.\nNow published as: Proceedings of the Royal Society B, 2014, 281(1780):20133127  \ndoi:10.1098/rspb.2013.3127', u"We generalize the recently-uncovered Data Rate Theorem in the context of cognitive systems having a 'dual' information source, including those of the living state that is  particularly characterized by cognition at every scale and level of organization. The unification of information theory and control theory via the Data Rate Theorem is not additive, but synergistic, generating new statistical tools that greatly constrain the possible dynamics of that state. Thus, in addition to providing novel conceptual approaches, this emerging body of theory permits construction of models that, like those of regression analysis, can provide benchmarks against which to compare experimental or observational data.", u'The heritability of a trait ($h^2$) is the proportion of its population variance caused by genetic differences, and estimates of this parameter are important for interpreting the results of genome-wide association studies (GWAS). In recent years, researchers have adopted a novel method for estimating a lower bound on heritability directly from GWAS data that uses realized genetic similarities between nominally unrelated individuals. The quantity estimated by this method is purported to be the contribution to heritability that could in principle be recovered from association studies employing the given panel of SNPs ($h^2_\\textrm{SNP}$). Thus far the validity of this approach has mostly been tested empirically. Here, we provide a mathematical explication and show that the method should remain a robust means of obtaining $h^2_\\textrm{SNP}$ under circumstances wider than those under which it has so far been derived.', u'Housekeeping sigma factors in the \u03c370 family, as components of the RNA polymerase holoenzyme, are responsible for regulating transcription of genes related to vegetative growth. While these factors are well understood in model organisms such as Escherichia coli and Bacillus subtilis, little experimental work has focused on the sigma factors in members of the Lactobacillus genus such as Lactobacillus brevis and Lactobacillus plantarum. This study evaluates the ability of putative \u03c370 proteins from L. brevis (\u03c370-Lb) and L. plantarum  (\u03c370-Lp) to complement a temperature sensitive mutation in the E. coli 285c \u03c370 protein. This report is the first to show that these heterologous sigma factors were capable of restoring the viability of E. coli 285c for growth at 40-43.5 \xb0C, indicating the \u03c370-Lb and \u03c370-Lp are capable of initiating transcription in a complex with the E. coli 285c RNA polymerase.These heterologous sigma factors may therefore be useful for improving biochemical knowledge of the sigma factor family or for use in the expression of hetereologous genomic libraries.', u"Background: Understanding the mechanism behind the transcriptional regulation of genes is still a challenge. Recent findings indicate that the genomic repeat elements (such as LINES, SINES and LTRs) could play an important role in the transcription control. Hence, it is important to further explore the role of genomic repeat elements in the gene expression regulation, and perhaps in other molecular processes. Although many computational tools exists for repeat element analysis, almost all of them simply identify and/or classifying the genomic repeat elements within query sequence(s); none of them facilitate identification of repeat elements that are likely to have a functional significance, particularly in the context of transcriptional regulation.\nResult: We developed the 'Genomic Repeat Element Analyzer for Mammals' (GREAM) to allow gene-centric analysis of genomic repeat elements in 17 mammalian species, and validated it by comparing with some of the existing experimental data. The output provides a categorized list of the specific type of transposons, retro-transposons and other genome-wide repeat elements that are statistically over-represented across specific neighborhood regions of query genes. The position and frequency of these elements, within the specified regions, are displayed as well. The tool also offers queries for position-specific distribution of repeat elements within chromosomes. In addition, GREAM facilitates the analysis of repeat element distribution across the neighborhood of orthologous genes.\nConclusion: GREAM allows researchers to short-list the potentially important repeat elements, from the genomic neighborhood of genes, for further experimental analysis. GREAM is free and available for all at http://resource.ibab.ac.in/GREAM/", u'Neutral community theory postulates a fundamental quantity, \u03b8, which reflects the\nspecies diversity on a regional scale. While the recent genealogical formulation of community\ndynamics has considerably enhanced quantitative neutral ecology, its inferential aspects have\nremained computationally prohibitive. Here, we make use of a generalized version of the\noriginal two-level hierarchical framework in order to define a novel estimator for \u03b8, which\nproves to be computationally efficient and robust when tested on a wide range of simulated\nneutral communities. Estimating \u03b8 from field data is also illustrated using two tropical forest\ndatasets consisting of spatially separated permanent field plots. Preliminary results also reveal\nthat our inferred regional diversity parameter based on community dynamics may be linked to\nwidely used ordination techniques in ecology. This paper essentially paves the way for future\nwork dealing with the parameter inference of neutral communities with respect to their spatial\nscale and structure.', u'Over-expression of rice NH1 (NH1ox), the ortholog of Arabidopsis NPR1, confers immunity to bacterial and fungal pathogens and induces the appearance of necrotic lesions due to activation of defense genes at the pre-flowering stage. This lesion-mimic phenotype can be enhanced by the application of benzothiadiazole (BTH). To identify genes regulating these responses, we screened a fast neutron-irradiated NH1ox rice population. We identified one mutant, called snl1 (suppressor of NH1-mediated lesion-mimic 1), which is impaired both in BTH-induced necrotic lesion formation and in the immune response. Using a comparative genome hybridization approach employing rice whole genome tiling array, we identified 11 genes associated with the snl1 phenotype. Transgenic analysis revealed that RNA interference of two of the genes, encoding previously uncharacterized cysteine-rich receptor-like kinases (CRK6 and CRK10), re-created the snl1 phenotype. Elevated expression of CRK10 using an inducible expression system resulted in enhanced immunity. Quantitative PCR revealed that BTH treatment and elevated levels of rice NH1 and its paralog NH3 induced expression of CRK10 and CRK6 RNA. These results indicate that CRK6 and CRK10 are required for the BTH-activated immune response mediated by NH1.', u'Because global climate change has made agricultural supply unstable, plant factories are expected to be a safe and stable means of food production. As the light source of a plant factory or controlled greenhouse, the light emitting diode (LED) is expected to solve cost problems and promote plant growth efficiently. In this study, we examined the light condition created by using monochromatic red and blue LEDs, to provide both simultaneous and alternating irradiation to leaf lettuce. The result was that simultaneous red and blue irradiation promoted plant growth more effectively than monochromatic and fluorescent light irradiation. Moreover, alternating red and blue light accelerated plant growth significantly even when the total light intensity per day was the same as with simultaneous irradiation. The fresh weight in altering irradiation was almost two times higher than with fluorescent light and about 1.6 times higher than with simultaneous irradiation. The growth-promoting effect of alternating irradiation of red and blue light was observed in different cultivars. From the results of experiments, we offer a novel plant growth method named "Shigyo Method", the core concept of which is the alternating irradiation of red and blue light.', u'Background: Repetitive alveolar damage and aberrant repair may be important in the development of the fatal condition Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis (IPF). The role played by microorganisms in this cycle is unknown.\n\nMethods: We consecutively enrolled patients diagnosed with IPF according to international criteria together with healthy smokers, non-smokers and subjects with moderate Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) as controls. Subjects underwent bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) from which genomic DNA was isolated. The V3-V5 region of the bacterial 16S rRNA gene was amplified, allowing quantification of bacterial load and identification of communities by 16S rRNA qPCR and pyrosequencing.\n \nResults: Our 65 IPF patients had 3.9x109 copies of the 16S rRNA gene per ml of BAL, two-fold more than the 1.8x109 copies in 44 sex- and smoking-matched controls (P<0.0001). Baseline BAL bacterial burden predicted Forced Vital Capacity (FVC) decline (P=0.02). Patients in the highest tertile of bacterial burden were at a higher risk of mortality compared to subjects in the lowest tertile (hazard ratio 4.59 (95% CI, 1.05-20); P=0.04).\nSequencing yielded 912,883 high quality reads from all subjects. Operational Taxonomic Units (OTUs) representing Haemophilus, Streptococcus, Neisseria and Veillonella were 1.5 to 3.5 fold more abundant in cases than controls (P<0.05). Regression analyses indicated that these specific OTUs as well as bacterial burden associated independently with IPF.\n\nConclusions: IPF is characterised by an increased bacterial burden in BAL that predicts decline in lung function and death. Clinical trials of antimicrobial therapy may determine if microbial burden is causal or not in IPF progression.', u'The biodiversity paradox is the central problem in theoretical ecology. The paradox consists in the contradiction between the competitive exclusion principle and the observed biodiversity. This contradiction is the key subject of the long-standing and continuing biodiversity debates. The paradox impedes our insights into biodiversity conservation. Previously we proved that due to a soliton-like behaviour of population waves complete competitors can indefinitely coexist in one closed homogeneous habitat on one and the same limiting resource under constant conditions of environment, without any trade-offs and cooperations. As this fact violates the known formulations of the competitive exclusion principle we have reformulated the principle. Here we explain why this reformulation of the principle results in a solution of the biodiversity paradox. In addition, we generalize the competitive exclusion principle. Reasoning by contradiction, we formulate a generalized principle of competitive coexistence. These principles expand theoretical basis for biodiversity conservation and sustainable development.', u'The nuclear genome of every cell harbors millions of unoccupied transcription factor (TF) recognition sequences that harbor methylated cytosines. Although DNA methylation is commonly invoked as a repressive mechanism, the extent to which it actively silences specific TF occupancy sites is unknown. To define the role of DNA methylation in modulating TF binding, we quantified the effect of DNA methyltransferase abrogation on the occupancy patterns of a ubiquitous TF capable of autonomous binding to its target sites in chromatin (CTCF). Here we show that the vast majority of unoccupied, methylated CTCF recognition sequences remain unbound upon depletion of DNA methylation. Rather, methylation-regulated binding is restricted to a small fraction of elements that exhibit high intrinsic variability in CTCF occupancy across cell types. Our results suggest that DNA methylation is not a major groundskeeper of genomic transcription factor occupancy landscapes, but rather a specialized mechanism for stabilizing epigenetically labile sites.', u"Cancer progression is an example of a rapid adaptive process where evolving new traits is essential for survival and requires a high mutation rate. Precancerous cells acquire a few key mutations that drive rapid population growth and carcinogenesis. Cancer genomics demonstrates that these few \x91driver\x92 mutations occur alongside thousands of random \x91passenger\x92 mutations\x96\x96a natural consequence of cancer's elevated mutation rate. Some passengers can be deleterious to cancer cells, yet have been largely ignored in cancer research. In population genetics, however, the accumulation of mildly deleterious mutations has been shown to cause population meltdown. Here we develop a stochastic population model where beneficial drivers engage in a tug-of-war with frequent mildly deleterious passengers. These passengers present a barrier to cancer progression that is described by a critical population size, below which most lesions fail to progress, and a critical mutation rate, above which cancers meltdown. We find support for the model in cancer age-incidence and cancer genomics data that also allow us to estimate the fitness advantage of drivers and fitness costs of passengers. We identify two regimes of adaptive evolutionary dynamics and use these regimes to rationalize successes and failures of different treatment strategies. We find that a tumor\x92s load of deleterious passengers can explain previously paradoxical treatment outcomes and suggest that it could potentially serve as a biomarker of response to mutagenic therapies. The collective deleterious effect of passengers is currently an unexploited therapeutic target. We discuss how their effects might be exacerbated by both current and future therapies.", u"Annotations of gene structures and regulatory elements can inform genome-wide association studies (GWAS). However, choosing the relevant annotations for interpreting an association study of a given trait remains challenging. We describe a statistical model that uses association statistics computed across the genome to identify classes of genomic element that are enriched or depleted for loci that influence a trait.  The model naturally incorporates multiple types of annotations. We applied the model to GWAS of 18 human traits, including red blood cell traits, platelet traits, glucose levels, lipid levels, height, BMI, and Crohn's disease. For each trait, we evaluated the relevance of 450 different genomic annotations, including protein-coding genes, enhancers, and DNase-I hypersensitive sites in over a hundred tissues and cell lines. We show that the fraction of phenotype-associated SNPs that influence protein sequence ranges from around 2% (for platelet volume) up to around 20% (for LDL cholesterol); that repressed chromatin is significantly depleted for SNPs associated with several traits; and that cell type-specific DNase-I hypersensitive sites are enriched for SNPs associated with several traits (for example, the spleen in platelet volume). Finally, by re-weighting each GWAS using information from functional genomics, we increase the number of loci with high-confidence associations by around 5%.", u'In 2009 Knowles and McLysaght reported the discovery of three human genes derived from non-coding DNA. They provided evidence that these genes, CLUU1, C22orf45, and DNAH10OS, were transcribed and translated, they identified orthologous non-coding DNA in chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes) and macaque (Macaca mulatta), and for each gene they located the critical ?enabler? mutations that extended the open reading frames (ORFs) allowing the production of a protein.  These genes had no BLASTp hits in any other genome and were considered to be novel human genes, possibly responsible for human-specific traits.  Since the discovery of these genes, new high quality Denisovan and Neanderthal genomes have been reported.  I used these resources in an effort to determine whether or not CLUU1, C22orf45, and DNAH10OS were truly human-specific.', u'Mutualistic interactions benefit both partners, promoting coexistence and genetic diversity. Spatial structure can promote cooperation, but spatial expansions may also make it hard for mutualistic partners to stay together, since genetic drift at the expansion front creates regions of low genetic and species diversity. To explore the antagonism between mutualism and genetic drift, we grew cross-feeding strains of the budding yeast S. cerevisiae on agar surfaces as a model for mutualists undergoing spatial expansions. By supplying varying amounts of the exchanged nutrients, we tuned strength and symmetry of the mutualistic interaction. Strong mutualism suppresses genetic demixing during spatial expansions and thereby maintains diversity, but weak or asymmetric mutualism is overwhelmed by genetic drift even when mutualism is still beneficial, slowing growth and reducing diversity. Theoretical modeling using experimentally measured parameters predicts the size of demixed regions and how strong mutualism must be to survive a spatial expansion.', u'Thousands of small Open Reading Frames (smORFs) encoding small peptides of fewer than 100 amino acids exist in our genomes. Examples of functional smORFs have been characterised in a few species but the actual number of translated smORFs, and their molecular, functional and evolutionary features are not known. Here we present a genome-wide assessment of smORF translation by ribosomal profiling of polysomal fractions. This \x91polysomal ribo-Seq\x92 suggests that smORFs are translated at the same level and in the same relative numbers (80%) as normal proteins. The smORF peptides appear widely conserved, show activity in cells, and display a putative amino acid signature. These findings reinforce the idea that smORFs are an abundant and fundamental genome component, displaying features usually attributed to canonical proteins, including high translation levels, biological function, amino acid sequence specificity and cross-species conservation.', u'Conjugation is the primary mechanism of horizontal gene transfer that spreads antibiotic resistance among bacteria. Although conjugation normally occurs in surface-associated growth (e.g., biofilms), it has been traditionally studied in well-mixed liquid cultures lacking spatial structure, which is known to affect many evolutionary and ecological processes. Here we visualize spatial patterns of gene transfer mediated by F plasmid conjugation in a colony of Escherichia coli growing on solid agar, and we develop a quantitative understanding by spatial extension of traditional mass-action models. We found that spatial structure suppresses conjugation in surface-associated growth because strong genetic drift leads to spatial isolation of donor and recipient cells, restricting conjugation to rare boundaries between donor and recipient strains. These results suggest that ecological strategies, such as enforcement of spatial structure and enhancement of genetic drift, could complement molecular strategies in slowing the spread of antibiotic resistance genes.', u'As the vast majority of all microbes are unculturable, single-cell sequencing has become a significant method to gain insight into microbial physiology. Single-cell sequencing methods, currently powered by multiple displacement genome amplification (MDA), have passed important milestones such as finishing and closing the genome of a prokaryote. However, the quality and reliability of genome assemblies from single cells are still unsatisfactory due to uneven coverage depth and the absence of scattered chunks of the genome in the final collection of reads caused by MDA bias. In this work, our new algorithm Hybrid De novo Assembler (HyDA) demonstrates the power of co-assembly of multiple single-cell genomic data sets through significant improvement of the assembly quality in terms of predicted functional elements and length statistics. Co-assemblies contain significantly more base pairs and protein coding genes, cover more subsystems, and consist of longer contigs compared to individual assemblies by the same algorithm as well as state-of-the-art single-cell assemblers SPAdes and IDBA-UD. Hybrid De novo Assembler (HyDA) is also able to avoid chimeric assemblies by detecting and separating shared and exclusive pieces of sequence for input data sets.  By replacing one deep single-cell sequencing experiment with a few single-cell sequencing experiments of lower depth, the co-assembly method can hedge against the risk of failure and  loss of the sample, without significantly increasing sequencing cost.  Application of the single-cell co-assembler HyDA to the study of three uncultured members of an alkane-degrading methanogenic community validated the usefulness of the co-assembly concept.', u'We propose an extension to quantile normalization which removes unwanted technical variation using control probes. We adapt our algorithm, functional normalization, to the Illumina 450k methylation array and address the open problem of normalizing methylation data with global epigenetic changes, such as human cancers. Using datasets from The Cancer Genome Atlas and a large case-control study, we show that our algorithm outperforms all existing normalization methods with respect to replication of results between experiments, and yields robust results even in the presence of batch effects. Functional normalization can be applied to any microarray platform, provided suitable control probes are available.', u'Both polygenicity (i.e. many small genetic effects) and confounding biases, such as cryptic relatedness and population stratification, can yield inflated distributions of test statistics in genome-wide association studies (GWAS). However, current methods cannot distinguish between inflation from bias and true signal from polygenicity. We have developed an approach that quantifies the contributions of each by examining the relationship between test statistics and linkage disequilibrium (LD). We term this approach LD Score regression. LD Score regression provides an upper bound on the contribution of confounding bias to the observed inflation in test statistics and can be used to estimate a more powerful correction factor than genomic control. We find strong evidence that polygenicity accounts for the majority of test statistic inflation in many GWAS of large sample size.', u"A central issue in neural recording is that of distinguishing the activities of many neurons. Here, we develop a framework, based on Fisher information, to quantify how separable a neuron's activity is from the activities of nearby neurons. We (1) apply this framework to model information flow and spatial distinguishability for several electrical and optical neural recording methods, (2) provide analytic expressions for information content, and (3) demonstrate potential applications of the approach. This method generalizes to many recording devices that resolve objects in space and thus may be useful in the design of next-generation scalable neural recording systems.", u'Delineating the strategies by which cells contend with combinatorial changing environments is crucial for understanding cellular regulatory organization. When presented with two carbon sources, microorganisms first consume the carbon substrate that supports the highest growth rate (e.g. glucose) and then switch to the secondary carbon source (e.g. galactose), a paradigm known as the Monod model. Sequential sugar utilization has been attributed to transcriptional repression of the secondary metabolic pathway, followed by activation of this pathway upon depletion of the preferred carbon source. In this work, we challenge this notion. Although Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells consume glucose before galactose, we demonstrate that the galactose regulatory pathway is activated in a fraction of the cell population hours before glucose is fully consumed. This early activation reduces the time required for the population to transition between the two metabolic programs and provides a fitness advantage that might be crucial in competitive environments. Importantly, these findings define a new paradigm for the response of microbial populations to combinatorial carbon sources.', u'We demonstrated a flexible Genome-Wide Association Study (GWAS) platform built upon the iPlant Collaborative Cyber-infrastructure. The platform supports big data management, sharing, and large scale study of both genotype and phenotype data on clusters. End users can add their own analysis tools, and create customized analysis workflows through the graphical user interfaces in both iPlant Discovery Environment and BioExtract server.', u'Most animals possess the ability to actuate a vast diversity of movements, ostensibly constrained only by morphology and physics. In practice, however, a frequent assumption in behavioral science is that most of an animal\x92s activities can be described in terms of a small set of stereotyped motifs. Here we introduce a method for mapping the behavioral space of organisms, relying only upon the underlying structure of postural movement data to organize and classify behaviors. We find that six different drosophilid species each perform a mix of non-stereotyped actions and over one hundred hierarchically-organized, stereotyped behaviors. Moreover, we use this approach to compare these species\x92 behavioral spaces, systematically identifying subtle behavioral differences between closely-related species.', u'Non-African populations have experienced major bottlenecks in the time since their split from West Africans, which has led to the hypothesis that natural selection to remove weakly deleterious mutations may have been less effective in non-Africans. To directly test this hypothesis, we measure the per-genome accumulation of deleterious mutations across diverse humans. We fail to detect any significant differences, but find that archaic Denisovans accumulated non-synonymous mutations at a higher rate than modern humans, consistent with the longer separation time of modern and archaic humans. We also revisit the empirical patterns that have been interpreted as evidence for less effective removal of deleterious mutations in non-Africans than in West Africans, and show they are not driven by differences in selection after population separation, but by neutral evolution.', u'I propose a method that estimates the selection response of all vital rates in an age-structured population. I assume that vital rates are determined by the additive genetic contributions of many loci. The method uses all relatedness information in the sample to inform its estimates of genetic parameters, via an MCMC Bayesian framework. One can use the results to estimate the selection response of any life history trait that is a function of the vital rates, including the age at first reproduction, total lifetime fertility, survival to adulthood, and others. This method closely ties the empirical analysis of life history evolution to dynamically complete models of natural selection, and therefore enjoys some theoretical advantages over other methods. I demonstrate the method on a simulated model of evolution with two age classes. Finally I discuss how the method can be extended to more complicated cases.', u'Bantu speech communities expanded over large parts of sub-Saharan Africa within the last 4000-5000 years, reaching different parts of southern Africa 1200-2000 years ago. The Bantu languages subdivide in several major branches, with languages belonging to the Eastern and Western Bantu branches spreading over large parts of Central, Eastern, and Southern Africa. There is still debate whether this linguistic divide is correlated with a genetic distinction between Eastern and Western Bantu speakers. During their expansion, Bantu speakers would have come into contact with diverse local populations, such as the Khoisan hunter-gatherers and pastoralists of southern Africa, with whom they may have intermarried. In this study, we analyze complete mtDNA genome sequences from over 900 Bantu-speaking individuals from Angola, Zambia, Namibia, and Botswana to investigate the demographic processes at play during the last stages of the Bantu expansion. Our results show that most of these Bantu-speaking populations are genetically very homogenous, with no genetic division between speakers of Eastern and Western Bantu languages. Most of the mtDNA diversity in our dataset is due to different degrees of admixture with autochthonous populations. Only the pastoralist Himba and Herero stand out due to high frequencies of particular L3f and L3d lineages; the latter are also found in the neighboring Damara, who speak a Khoisan language and were foragers and small-stock herders. In contrast, the close cultural and linguistic relatives of the Herero and Himba, the Kuvale, are genetically similar to other Bantu-speakers. Nevertheless, as demonstrated by resampling tests, the genetic divergence of Herero, Himba, and Kuvale is compatible with a common shared ancestry with high levels of drift and differential female admixture with local pre-Bantu populations.', u'To monitor nitrate and peptide transport activity in vivo, we converted the dual-affinity nitrate transceptor CHL1/NRT1.1/NPF6.3 and four related oligopeptide transporters PTR1, 2, 4 and 5 into fluorescence activity sensors (NiTrac1, PepTrac). Substrate addition to yeast expressing transporter fusions with yellow fluorescent protein and mCerulean triggered substrate-dependent donor quenching or resonance energy transfer. Fluorescence changes were nitrate/peptide-specific, respectively. Like CHL1, NiTrac1 had biphasic kinetics. Mutation of T101A eliminated high-affinity transport and blocked the fluorescence response to low nitrate. NiTrac was used for characterizing side chains considered important for substrate interaction, proton coupling, and regulation. We observed a striking correlation between transport activity and sensor output. Coexpression of NiTrac with known calcineurin-like proteins (CBL1, 9; CIPK23) and candidates identified in an interactome screen (CBL1, KT2, WNKinase 8) blocked NiTrac1 responses, demonstrating the suitability for in vivo analysis of activity and regulation. The new technology is applicable in plant and medical research.', u"Clathrin-mediated endocytosis (CME) is the major internalisation route for many different receptor types in mammalian cells. CME is shut down during early mitosis, but the mechanism of this inhibition is unclear. Here we show that the mitotic shutdown is due to an unmet requirement for actin in CME. In mitotic cells, membrane tension is increased and this invokes a requirement for the actin cytoskeleton to assist the CME machinery to overcome the increased load. However, the actin cytoskeleton is engaged in the formation of a rigid cortex in mitotic cells and is therefore unavailable for deployment. We demonstrate that CME can be 'restarted&' in mitotic cells despite high membrane tension, by allowing actin to engage in endocytosis. Mitotic phosphorylation of endocytic proteins is maintained in mitotic cells with restored CME, indicating that direct phosphorylation of the CME machinery does not account for shutdown. Now published as eLife \nDOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.7554/eLife.00829", u'Multivesicular endosome (MVE) sorting depends on proteins of the Endosomal Sorting Complex Required for Transport (ESCRT) family. These are organized in four complexes (ESCRT-0, -I, -II, -III) that act in a sequential fashion to deliver ubiquitylated cargoes into the internal luminal vesicles (ILVs) of the MVE. Drosophila genes encoding ESCRT-I, -II, -III components function in sorting signaling receptors, including Notch and the JAK/STAT signaling receptor Domeless. Loss of ESCRT-I, -II, -III in Drosophila epithelia causes altered signaling and cell polarity, suggesting that ESCRTs genes are tumor suppressors. However, the nature of the tumor suppressive function of ESCRTs, and whether tumor suppression is linked to receptor sorting is unclear. Unexpectedly, a null mutant in Hrs, encoding one of components of the ESCRT-0 complex, which acts upstream of ESCRT-I, -II, -III in MVE sorting is dispensable for tumor suppression. Here, we report that two Drosophila epithelia lacking activity of Stam, the other known components of the ESCRT-0 complex, or of both Hrs and Stam fail to degrade signaling receptors. However, mutant  tissue surprisingly maintains normal apico-basal polarity and proliferation control and does not display ectopic Notch signaling activation, unlike cells that lack ESCRT-I, -II, -III activity. Overall, our in vivo data indicate that the ESCRT-0 complex plays no crucial role in regulation of tumor suppression, and suggest re-evaluation of the relationship of signaling modulation in endosomes and tumorigenesis.', u'Background: During early development, neural circuits fire spontaneously, generating activity episodes with complex spatiotemporal patterns. Recordings of spontaneous activity have been made in many parts of the nervous system over the last 20 years, reporting developmental changes in activity patterns and the effects of various genetic perturbations.\n\nResults: We present a curated repository of multielectrode array recordings of spontaneous activity in developing mouse and ferret retina.  The data have been annotated with minimal metadata and converted into the HDF5 format.  This paper describes the structure of the data, along with examples of reproducible research using these data files.  We also demonstrate how these data can be analysed in the CARMEN workflow system.  This article is written as a literate programming document; all programs and data described here are freely available.\n\nConclusions: 1. We hope this repository will lead to novel analysis of spontaneous activity recorded in different laboratories.  2. We encourage published data to be added to the repository.  3. This repository serves as an example of how multielectrode array recordings can be stored for long-term reuse.', u'Recent advances in DNA sequencing techniques resulted in more than forty sequenced plant genomes representing a diverse set of taxa of agricultural, energy, medicinal and ecological importance. However, gene family curation is often only inferred from DNA sequence homology and lacks insights into evolutionary processes contributing to gene family dynamics. In a comparative genomics framework, we integrated multiple lines of evidence provided by gene synteny, sequence homology and protein-based Hidden Markov Modelling to extract homologous super-clusters composed of multi-domain resistance (R)-proteins of the NB-LRR type (for NUCLEOTIDE BINDING/LEUCINE-RICH REPEATS), that are involved in plant innate immunity. To assess the diversity of R-proteins within and between species, we screened twelve eudicot plant genomes including six major crops and found a total of 2,363 NB-LRR genes. Our curated R-proteins set shows a 50% average for tandem duplicates and a 22% fraction of gene copies retained from ancient polyploidy events (ohnologs). We provide evidence for strong positive selection acting on all identified genes and show significant differences in molecular evolution rates (Ka/Ks-ratio) among tandem- (mean=1.59), ohnolog (mean=1.36) and singleton (mean=1.22) R-gene duplicates. To foster the process of gene-edited plant breeding, we report species-specific presence/absence of all 140 NB-LRR genes present in the model plant Arabidopsis and describe four distinct clusters of NB-LRR ?gatekeeper? loci sharing syntelogs across all analyzed genomes. In summary, we designed and implemented an easy-to-follow computational framework for super-gene family identification, and provide the most curated set of NB-LRR genes whose genetic versatility among twelve lineages can underpin crop improvement.', u'The corpus callosum -- the main pathway for long-distance inter-hemispheric integration in the human brain -- has been frequently reported to be smaller among autistic patients compared with non-autistic controls. We conducted a meta-analysis of the literature which suggested a statistically significant difference. However, the studies included were heavily underpowered: on average only 20% power to detect differences of 0.3 standard deviations, which makes it difficult to establish the reality of such a difference. We therefore studied the size of the corpus callosum among 694 subjects (328 patients, 366 controls) from the Abide cohort. Despite having achieved 99% power to detect statistically significant differences of 0.3 standard deviations, we did not observe any. To better understand the neuroanatomical diversity of the corpus callosum, and the possible reasons for the previous findings, we analysed the relationship between its size, the size of the brain, intracranial volume and intelligence scores. The corpus callosum appeared to scale non-linearly with brain size, with large brains having a proportionally smaller corpus callosum. Additionally, intelligence scores correlated with brain volume among controls but the correlation was significantly weaker among patients. We used simulations to determine to which extent these two effects could lead to artefactual differences in corpus callosum size within populations. We observed that, were there a difference in brain volume between cases and controls, normalising corpus callosum size by brain volume would not eliminate the brain volume effect, but adding brain volume as a covariate in a linear model would. Finally, we observed that because of the weaker correlation of intelligence scores and brain volume among patients, matching populations by intelligence scores could result in a bias towards including more patients with large brain volumes, inducing an artificial difference. Overall, our results highlight the necessity for open data sharing efforts such as Abide to provide a more solid ground for the discovery of neuroimaging biomarkers, within the context of the wide human neuroanatomical diversity.', u'From recent whole genome shotgun data of 48 mammalian species, we have used our software VgenExtractor to obtain the functional V-gene sequence repertoire in order to conduct comparative phylogenetic studies. These studies reveal a large variation in the number of V-genes across mammalian species, ranging from a mere 36 V-genes in dolphins to nearly 600 V-genes in rats. Monotremes and marsupials are the only mammals possessing an additional locus, the TRMV, apart from the seven common loci found in mammals. Also, we show evidence for the loss of the light chain loci, specifically the V-kappa chain in one microbat, and the V-lambda chain in one rodent species.  Finally, we suggest different features related to the evolution of immunoglobulin and T cell receptor  loci, where frequent sequence duplications are seen in the former, while preserved and undiversified lineages are observed in the latter. All the V-gene sequences described in this study are available in the public database repository vgenerepertoire.org.', u'Expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) mapping on tissue, organ or whole organism data can detect associations that are generic across cell types. We describe a new method to focus upon specific cell types without first needing to sort cells. We applied the method to whole blood data from 5,683 samples and demonstrate that SNPs associated with Crohn\x92s disease preferentially affect gene expression within neutrophils.', u'Reptiles and mammals diverged over 300 million years ago, creating two parallel evolutionary lineages amongst terrestrial vertebrates. In reptiles, two main evolutionary lines emerged,  one gave rise to Squamata, while the other gave rise to Testudines, Crocodylia and birds.  In this study, we determined the genomic variable (V)-gene repertoire in reptiles corresponding to the three main immunoglobulin (Ig) loci and the four main T-cell receptor (TCR) loci.  We show that squamata lack the TCR gamma/\\delta genes and snakes lack the V-kappa genes. In representative species of testudines and crocodiles, the seven major Ig and TCR loci are maintained. As in mammals, genes of the Ig loci can be grouped into well-defined clans through a multi-species phylogenetic analysis.  We show that the reptile VH and V-lambda genes are distributed amongst the established mammalian clans, while  their  V-kappa genes are found within a single clan, nearly exclusive from the mammalian sequences.  The reptile and mammal V-genes of the TRA locus cluster into six common evolutionary clans. In contrast, the reptile V-genes from the TRB locus cluster into three clans, which have few mammalian members. In this locus, the V-gene sequences from mammals appear to have undergone different evolutionary diversification processes that occurred outside these shared reptile clans.', u'Every level of biological organization from cells to societies require that composing units come together to form parts of a bigger unit (1). Our knowledge of how behavioral manipulating parasites change social interactions between social hosts is limited. Here we use an endoparasite to observe changes in social interactions between infected and healthy ants, using trophallaxis (liquid food exchange) and spatial data as proxies for food sharing and social segregation. We found no change in trophallaxis (p-value=0.5156). By using K-function and nearest neighbor analyses we did see a significant difference in spatial segregation on day 3 (less than 8 millimeters; p-value<0.05). These results suggest healthy individuals are unable to detect the parasite within the host.', u'Analysis of RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) data revealed that the vast majority of human genes express multiple mRNA isoforms, produced by alternative pre-mRNA splicing and other mechanisms, and that most alternative isoforms vary in expression between human tissues. As RNA-Seq datasets grow in size, it remains challenging to visualize isoform expression across multiple samples. We present Sashimi plots, a quantitative multi-sample visualization of RNA-Seq reads aligned to gene annotations, which enables quantitative comparison of isoform usage across samples or experimental conditions. Given an input annotation and spliced alignments of reads from a sample, a region of interest is visualized in a Sashimi plot as follows: (i) alignments in exons are represented as read densities (optionally normalized by length of genomic region and coverage), and (ii) splice junction reads are drawn as arcs connecting a pair of exons, where arc width is drawn  proportional to the number of reads aligning to the junction.', u'abstract forthcoming.', u'Despite its importance in the diversification of many eucaryote clades, particularly plants, detailed genomic analysis of polyploid species is still in its infancy, with published analysis of only a handful of model species to date. Fundamental questions concerning the origin of polyploid lineages (e.g., auto- vs. allopolyploidy) and the extent to which polyploid genomes display different modes of inheritance are poorly resolved for most polyploids, not least because they have hitherto required detailed karyotypic analysis or the analysis of allele segregation at multiple loci in pedigrees or artificial crosses, which are often not practical for non-model species. However, the increasing availability of sequence data for non-model species now presents an opportunity to apply established approaches for the evolutionary analysis of genomic data to polyploid species complexes. Here, we ask whether approximate Bayesian computation (ABC), applied to sequence data produced by next-generation sequencing technologies from polyploid taxa,  allows correct inference of the evolutionary and demographic history of polyploid lineages and their close relatives. We use simulations to investigate how the number of sampled individuals, the number of surveyed loci and their length affect the accuracy and precision of evolutionary and demographic inferences by ABC, including the mode of polyploidisation, mode of inheritance of polyploid taxa, the relative timing of genome duplication and speciation, and effective populations sizes of contributing lineages. We also apply the ABC framework we develop to sequence data from diploid and polyploidy species of the plant genus Capsella, for which we infer an allopolyploid origin for tetra C. bursa-pastoris \u2248 90,000 years ago.  In general, our results indicate that ABC is a promising and powerful method for uncovering the origin and  subsequent evolution of polyploid species.', u'Microbial fuel cells (MFCs) are a promising technology for organic waste treatment and sustainable bioelectricity production. Inoculated with natural communities, they present a complex microbial ecosystem with syntrophic interactions between microbes with different metabolic capabilities. From this point of view, they are similar to anaerobic digesters, however with methanogenesis replaced by anaerobic respiration with the anode as terminal electron acceptor. Bio-electrochemically they are similar to classical fuel cells where however the electrogenic redox reaction is part of the microbial metabolism rather than mediated by an inorganic catalyst.\nIn this paper, we analyse how electric power production in MFCs depends on the composition of the anodic biofilm in terms of metabolic capabilities of identified sets of species. MFCs were started with a natural inoculum and continuously fed with sucrose, a fermentable carbohydrate. The composition of the community, power and other environmental data were sampled over a period of a few weeks during the maturation of the anodic biofilm.\nOur results support the hypothesis that an MFC with natural inoculum and fermentable feedstock is essentially a two stage system with fermentation followed by anode-respiration. Our results also show that under identical starting and operating \nconditions, MFCs with comparable power output can develop different anodic communities with no particular species dominant across all replicas. It is only important for good power production that all cells contain a sufficient fraction of low-potential anaerobic respirators, that is respirators that can use terminal electron acceptors with a low redox potential. We conclude with a number of hypotheses and recommendations for the operation of MFCs to ensure good electric yield.', u'Standing genetic variation and the historical environment in which that variation arises (evolutionary history) are both potentially significant determinants of a population\x92s capacity for evolutionary response to a changing environment. We evaluated the relative importance of these two factors in influencing the evolutionary trajectories in the face of sudden environmental change. We used the open-ended digital evolution software Avida to examine how historic exposure to predation pressures, different levels of genetic variation, and combinations of the two, impact anti-predator strategies and competitive abilities evolved in the face of threats from new, invasive, predator populations. We show that while standing genetic variation plays some role in determining evolutionary responses, evolutionary history has the greater influence on a population\x92s capacity to evolve effective anti-predator traits. This adaptability likely reflects the relative ease of repurposing existing, relevant genes and traits, and the broader potential value of the generation and maintenance of adaptively flexible traits in evolving populations.', u'Background: The continued democratization of DNA sequencing has sparked a new wave of development of genome assembly and assembly validation methods. As individual research labs, rather than centralized centers, begin to sequence the majority of new genomes, it is important to establish best practices for genome assembly. However, recent evaluations such as GAGE and the Assemblathon have concluded that there is no single best approach to genome assembly. Instead, it is preferable to generate multiple assemblies and validate them to determine which is most useful for the desired analysis; this is a labor-intensive process that is often impossible or unfeasible.\nResults: To encourage best practices supported by the community, we present iMetAMOS, an automated ensemble assembly pipeline; iMetAMOS encapsulates the process of running, validating, and selecting a single assembly from multiple assemblies. iMetAMOS packages several leading open-source tools into a single binary that automates parameter selection and execution of multiple assemblers, scores the resulting assemblies based on multiple validation metrics, and annotates the assemblies for genes and contaminants. We demonstrate the utility of the ensemble process on 225 previously unassembled Mycobacterium tuberculosis genomes as well as a Rhodobacter sphaeroides benchmark dataset. On these real data, iMetAMOS reliably produces validated assemblies and identifies potential contamination without user intervention. In addition, intelligent parameter selection produces assemblies of R. sphaeroides that exceed the quality of those from the GAGE-B evaluation, affecting the relative ranking of some assemblers.\nConclusions: Ensemble assembly with iMetAMOS provides users with multiple, validated assemblies for each genome. Although computationally limited to small or mid-sized genomes, this approach is the most effective and reproducible means for generating high-quality assemblies and enables users to select an assembly best tailored to their specific needs.', u'Biodiversity indices often combine data from different species when used in monitoring programs. Heuristic properties can suggest preferred indices, but we lack objective ways to discriminate between indices with similar heuristics. Biodiversity indices can be evaluated by determining how well they reflect management objectives that a monitoring program aims to support. For example, the Convention on Biological Diversity requires reporting about extinction rates, so simple indices that reflect extinction risk would be valuable. Here we develop three biodiversity indices that are based on simple models of population viability that relate extinction risk to abundance. The first index is based on the geometric mean abundance of species. A second uses a more general power mean. A third integrates both the geometric mean abundance and trend. These indices require the same data as previous indices, but they also relate directly to extinction risk. Field data for butterflies and woodland plants, and experimental studies of protozoan communities show that the indices correlate with local extinction rates. Applying the index based on the geometric mean to global data on changes in avian abundance suggests that the average extinction probability of birds has increased approximately 1% from 1970 to 2009.', u'We investigated whether the protease activity of separase, which is required for chromosome segregation, is also required for its other roles during anaphase in C. elegans given that non-proteolytic functions of separase have been identified in other organisms. We find that expression of protease-dead separase is dominant-negative in C. elegans embryos. The C. elegans embryo is an ideal system to study developmental processes in a genetically tractable system. However, a major limitation is the lack of an inducible gene expression system for the embryo. The most common method for embryonic expression involves generation of integrated transgenes under the control of the pie-1 promoter, using unc-119 as a selection marker. However expression of dominant-negative proteins kills the strain preventing analysis of mutants. We have developed two methods that allow for the propagation of lines carrying dominant-negative transgenes in order to study protease-dead separase in embryos. The first involves feeding gfp RNAi to eliminate transgene expression and allows propagation of transgenic lines indefinitely. Animals removed from gfp RNAi for several generations recover transgene expression and associated phenotypes. The second involves propagation of the transgene with the female specific pie-1 promoter via the male germline and analysis of phenotypes in embryos from F1 heterozygous hermaphrodites that express the protein. Using these methods, we show that protease-dead separase causes chromosome nondisjunction and cytokinesis failures. These methods are immediately applicable for studies of dominant-negative transgenes and should open new lines of investigation in the C. elegans embryo.', u"Tlusty's topological analysis of the genetic code suggests ecosystem changes in available metabolic free energy that predated the aerobic transition enabled a punctuated sequence of increasingly complex genetic codes and protein translators. These coevolved via a `Cambrian explosion' until, very early on, the ancestor of the present narrow spectrum of protein machineries became evolutionarily locked in at a modest level of fitness reflecting a modest embedding metabolic free energy ecology. Similar biochemical `Cambrian singularities' must have occurred at different scales and levels of organization on Earth, with competition or chance-selected outcomes frozen at a far earlier period than the physical bauplan Cambrian explosion. Other examples might include explosive variations in mechanisms of photosynthesis and subsequent oxygen metabolisms. Intermediate between Cambrian bauplan and genetic code, variants of both remain today, even after evolutionary pruning, often protected in specialized ecological niches. This suggests that, under less energetic astrobiological ecologies, a spectrum of less complicated reproductive codes may also survive in specialized niches.", u'Background', u'Olfactory representations are shaped by both brain state and respiration; however, the\ninteraction and circuit substrates of these influences are poorly understood. Granule cells\n(GCs) in the main olfactory bulb (MOB) are presumed to sculpt activity that reaches the\nolfactory cortex via inhibition of mitral/tufted cells (MTs). GCs may potentially sparsen\nensemble activity by facilitating lateral inhibition among MTs, and/or they may enforce\ntemporally-precise activity locked to breathing. Yet, the selectivity and temporal structure\nof GC activity during wakefulness are unknown. We recorded GCs in the MOB of\nanesthetized and awake mice and reveal pronounced state-dependent features of odor\ncoding and temporal patterning. Under anesthesia, GCs exhibit sparse activity and are\nstrongly and synchronously coupled to the respiratory cycle. Upon waking, GCs\ndesynchronize, broaden their odor responses, and typically fire without regard for the\nrespiratory rhythm. Thus during wakefulness, GCs exhibit stronger odor responses with\nless temporal structure. Based on these observations, we propose that during wakefulness\nGCs likely predominantly shape MT odor responses through broadened lateral\ninteractions rather than respiratory synchronization.', u'Identifying a small subset of discriminate genes is important for predicting clinical outcomes and facilitating disease diagnosis. Based on the model population analysis framework, we present a method, called PHADIA, which is able to output a phase diagram displaying the predictive ability of each variable, which provides an intuitive way for selecting informative variables. Using two publicly available microarray datasets, it\x92s demonstrated that our method can selects a few informative genes and achieves significantly better or comparable classification accuracy compared to the reported results in the literature. The source codes are freely available at: www.libpls.net.', u'Many species engage in niche construction that ultimately leads to an increase in the carrying capacity of the population. We have investigated how the specificity of this behaviour affects evolutionary dynamics  using a set of coupled logistic equations, where the carrying capacity of each genotype consists of two components: an intrinsic part and a contribution from all genotypes present in the population. The relative contribution of the two components is controlled by a specificity parameter \u03b3, and we show that the ability of a mutant to invade a resident population depends strongly on this parameter. When the carrying capacity is intrinsic, selection is almost exclusively for mutants with higher carrying capacity, while a shared carrying capacity yields selection purely on growth rate. This result has important implications for our understanding of niche construction, in particular the evolutionary dynamics of tumor growth.', u'Roughly one in three individuals is highly susceptible to motion sickness and yet the underlying causes of this condition are not well understood. Despite high heritability, no associated  genetic factors have been discovered to date.  Here, we conducted the first genome-wide association study on motion sickness in 80,494 individuals from the 23andMe database who were surveyed about car sickness.  Thirty-five single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were associated with motion sickness at a genome-wide-significant level (p< 5e-8).  Many of these SNPs are near genes involved in balance, and eye, ear, and cranial development (e.g., PVRL3, TSHZ1, MUTED, HOXB3, HOXD3). Other SNPs may affect motion sickness through nearby genes with roles in the nervous system, glucose homeostasis, or hypoxia.  We show that several of these SNPs display sex-specific effects, with as much as three times stronger effects in women.  We searched for comorbid phenotypes with motion sickness, confirming associations with known comorbidities including migraines, postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV), vertigo, and morning sickness, and observing new associations with altitude sickness and many gastrointestinal conditions. We also show that two of these related phenotypes (PONV and migraines) share underlying genetic factors with motion sickness.  These results point to the importance of the nervous system in motion sickness and suggest a role for glucose levels in motion-induced nausea and vomiting, a finding that may provide insight into other nausea-related phenotypes such as PONV. They also highlight personal characteristics (e.g., being a poor sleeper) that correlate with motion sickness, findings that could help identify risk factors or treatments.', u'Monoallelic gene expression is typically initiated early in the development of an organism. Dysregulation of monoallelic gene expression has already been linked to several non-Mendelian inherited genetic disorders. In humans, DNA-methylation is deemed to be an important regulator of monoallelic gene expression, but only few examples are known. One important reason is that current, cost-affordable truly genome-wide methods to assess DNA-methylation are based on sequencing post enrichment. Here, we present a new methodology that combines methylomic data from MethylCap-seq with associated SNP profiles to identify monoallelically methylated loci. Using the Hardy-Weinberg theorem for each SNP locus, it could be established whether the observed frequency of samples featured by biallelic methylation was lower than randomly expected. Applied on 334 MethylCap-seq samples of very diverse origin, this resulted in the identification of 80 genomic regions featured by monoallelic DNA-methylation. Of these 80 loci, 49 are located in genic regions of which 25 have already been linked to imprinting. Further analysis revealed statistically significant enrichment of these loci in promoter regions, further establishing the relevance and usefulness of the method. Additional validation of the found loci was done using 14 whole-genome bisulfite sequencing data sets. Importantly, the developed approach can be easily applied to other enrichment-based sequencing technologies, such as the ChIP-seq-based identification of monoallelic histone modifications.', u'Background: Constraint programming (CP) is usually seen as a rigid approach, focusing on crisp, precise, distinctions between what is allowed as a solution and what is not. At first sight, this makes it seem inadequate for bioinformatics applications that rely mostly on statistical parameters and optimisation. The prediction of protein interactions, or protein docking, is one such application. And this apparent problem with CP is particularly evident when constraints are provided by noisy data, as it is the case when using the statistical analysis of Multiple Sequence Alignments (MSA) to extract coevolution information. The goal of this paper is to show that this first impression is misleading and that CP is a useful technique for improving protein docking even with data as vague and noisy as the coevolution indicators that can be inferred from MSA. \nResults: Here we focus on the study of two protein complexes. In one case we used a simplified estimator of interaction propensity to infer a set of five candidate residues for the interface and used that set to constrain the docking models. Even with this simplified approach and considering only the interface of one of the partners, there is a visible focusing of the models around the correct configuration. Considering a set of 400 models with the best geometric contacts, this constraint increases the number of models close to the target (RMSD \xa15\xc5) from 2 to 5 and decreases the RMSD of all retained models from 26\xc5 to 17.5\xc5. For the other example we used a more standard estimate of coevolving residues, from the Co-Evolution Analysis using Protein Sequences (CAPS) software. Using a group of three residues identified from the sequence alignment as potentially co-evolving to constrain the search, the number of complexes similar to the target among the 50 highest scoring docking models increased from 3 in the unconstrained docking to 30 in the constrained docking. \nConclusions: Although only a proof-of-concept application, our results show that, with suitably designed constraints, CP allows us to integrate coevolution data, which can be inferred from databases of protein sequences, even though the data is noisy and often \x93fuzzy\x94, with no well-defined discontinuities. This also shows, more generally, that CP in bioinformatics needs not be limited to the more crisp cases of finite domains and explicit rules but can also be applied to a broader range of problems that depend on statistical measurements and continuous data.', u'Accurately making a decision in the face of incongruent options increases the efficiency of making similar congruency decisions in the future. This adaptive process is modulated by reward, suggesting that ventral corticostriatal circuits may contribute to the process of conflict adaptation.  To evaluate this possibility, a group of healthy adults (N=30) were tested using functional MRI (fMRI) while they performed a color-word Stroop task.  In a conflict-related region of the medial orbitofrontal cortex (mOFC), stronger BOLD responses predicted faster response times (RTs) on the next trial. More importantly, the degree of behavioral conflict adaptation on RTs was correlated with the magnitude of mOFC-RT associations on the previous trial, but only after accounting for network-level interactions with prefrontal and striatal regions. This suggests that conflict adaptation may rely on interactions between distributed corticostriatal circuits.  The convergence of white matter projections from frontal areas into the striatum was measured using diffusion weighted imaging.  In these pathways, greater convergence of coticostriatal projections correlated with stronger functional mOFC-RT associations that, in turn, provided an indirect pathway that linked anatomical structure to behavior.  Thus distributed corticostriatal processing may mediate the orbitofrontal cortex\x92s influence on behavioral updating, even in the absence of explicit rewards.', u'Nucleotide and protein sequence feature annotations are essential to understand biology on the genomic, transcriptomic, and proteomic level. Using Semantic Web technologies to query biological annotations, there was no standard that described this potentially complex location information as subject-predicate-object triples.\n\nWe have developed an ontology, the Feature Annotation Location Description Ontology (FALDO), to describe the positions of annotated features on linear and circular sequences. FALDO can be used to describe nucleotide features in sequence records, protein annotations, and glycan binding sites, among other features in coordinate systems of the aforementioned \x93omics\x94 areas. Using the same data format to represent sequence positions that are independent of file formats allows us to integrate sequence data from multiple sources and data types. The genome browser JBrowse is used to demonstrate accessing multiple SPARQL endpoints to display genomic feature annotations, as well as protein annotations from UniProt mapped to genomic locations.\n\nOur ontology allows users to uniformly describe \x96 and potentially merge \x96 sequence annotations from multiple sources. Data sources using FALDO can prospectively be retrieved using federalised SPARQL queries against public SPARQL endpoints and/or local private triple stores.', u'DNA methylation variation has been implicated as a factor that influences inter-individual and inter-tissue phenotypic variation in numerous organisms and under various conditions.  Here, using a unique collection of three tissues, derived from 24 mother-newborn dyads from war-torn Democratic Republic of Congo, we estimate how stress, heritability, tissue type and genomic/regulatory context influence genome-wide DNA methylation. We also evaluate if stress-associated variation may mediate an observed phenotype - newborn birthweight. On average, a minimal influence of stress and heritability are observed, while in contrast extensive among tissues and context dependency is evident. However, a notable overlap in heritable and stress-associated variation is observed and that variation is commonly correlated with birthweight variation.  Finally, we observe that variation outside of promoter regions, particularly in enhancers, is far more dynamic across tissues and across conditions than in promoters, suggesting that variation outside of promoters may play a larger role in expression variation than variation found within promoter regions.', u'The use of low quality RNA samples in whole-genome gene expression profiling remains controversial. It is unclear if transcript degradation in low quality RNA samples occurs uniformly, in which case the effects of degradation can be normalized, or whether different transcripts are degraded at different rates, potentially biasing measurements of expression levels. This concern has rendered the use of low quality RNA samples in whole-genome expression profiling problematic. Yet, low quality samples are at times the sole means of addressing specific questions \x96 e.g., samples collected in the course of fieldwork. We sought to quantify the impact of variation in RNA quality on estimates of gene expression levels based on RNA-seq data. To do so, we collected expression data from tissue samples that were allowed to decay for varying amounts of time prior to RNA extraction. The RNA samples we collected spanned the entire range of RNA Integrity Number (RIN) values (a quality metric commonly used to assess RNA quality). We observed widespread effects of RNA quality on measurements of gene expression levels, as well as a slight but significant loss of library complexity in more degraded samples. While standard normalizations failed to account for the effects of degradation, we found that a simple linear model that controls for the effects of RIN can correct for the majority of these effects. We conclude that in instances where RIN and the effect of interest are not associated, this approach can help recover biologically meaningful signals in data from degraded RNA samples.', u"The TcZFPs are a family of small zinc finger proteins harboring WW domains or Proline rich motifs. In Trypanosoma brucei, ZFPs are involved during stage specific differentiation. TcZFPs interact with each other using the WW domain (ZFP2 and ZFP3) and the proline rich motif (ZFP1). The tcZFP1b member is exclusive to Trypanosoma cruzi and it is only expressed in trypomastigote stage. We used a tetracycline inducible vector to express ectopically tcZFP1b in the epimastigote stage. Upon induction of tcZFP1b, the parasites stopped dividing completely after five days. Visual inspection showed abnormal distorted-morphology (monster) cells with multiple flagella and increased DNA contents. We were interested in investigate global transcription changes occurred during the generation of this abnormal phenotype. Thus, we performed RNA-seq transcriptome profiling with a 454 pyrosequencer to analyze the global changes after ectopic expression of tcZFP1b. The total mRNAs sequenced from induced and non-induced control epimastigotes showed, after filtering the data, a set of 70 genes having equal or more than 3X fold change upregulation, while 35 genes showed equal or more than 3X fold downregulation. Interestingly, several trans-sialidase-like genes and pseudogenes were upregulated along with several genes in the categories of amino acid catabolism and carbohydrate metabolism. On the other hand, hypothetical proteins, fatty acid biosynthesis and mitochondrial functions dominated the group of downregulated genes. Our data showed that several mRNAs sharing related functions and pathways changed their levels in a concerted pattern resembling post-transcriptional regulons. We also found two different motifs in the 3'UTRs of the majority of mRNAs, one for upregulated and other for downregulated genes", u'The development of human breast cancer is driven by changes in the genetic and epigenetic landscape of the cell. Despite growing appreciation of the importance of epigenetics in breast cancers, our knowledge of epigenetic alterations of non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) in breast cancers remains limited. Here, we explored the epigenetic patterns of ncRNAs in breast cancers via a sequencing-based comparative methylome analysis, mainly focusing on two most popular ncRNA biotypes, long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) and miRNAs. Besides global hypomethylation and extensive CpG islands (CGIs) hypermethylation, we observed widely aberrant methylation in the promoters of ncRNAs, which was higher than that of protein-coding genes. Specifically, intergenic ncRNAs were observed to contribute a large slice of the aberrantly methylated ncRNA promoters. Moreover, we summarized five patterns of ncRNA promoter aberrant methylation in the context of genomic CGIs, where aberrant methylation occurred not only on the CGIs, but also flanking regions and CGI sparse promoters. Integration with transcriptional datasets, we found that the ncRNA promoter methylation events were associated with transcriptional changes. Furthermore, a panel of ncRNAs were identified as biomarkers that were able to discriminate between disease phenotypes (AUCs>0.90). Finally, the potential functions for aberrantly methylated ncRNAs were predicted based on similar patterns, adjacency and/or target genes, highlighting that ncRNAs and coding genes coordinately mediated pathways dysregulation in the development and progression of breast cancers. This study presents the aberrant methylation patterns of ncRNAs, which will be a highly valuable resource for investigations at understanding epigenetic regulation of breast cancers.', u'We demonstrate how nanojunctions between lysosomes and sarcoplasmic reticulum (L-SR junctions) serve to couple lysosomal activation to regenerative, ryanodine receptor-mediated cellular calcium (Ca2+) waves. In pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells (PASMCs) nicotinic acid adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NAADP) may trigger increases in cytoplasmic Ca2+ via L-SR junctions, in a manner that requires initial Ca2+ release from lysosomes and subsequent Ca2+-induced Ca2+ release (CICR) via ryanodine receptor (RyR) subtype 3 on the SR membrane proximal to lysosomes. L-SR junction membrane separation has been estimated to be <400 nm and thus beyond the resolution of light microscopy. This study utilizes transmission electron microscopy to provide a thorough ultrastructural characterization of the L-SR junctions in PASMCs. These junctions are prominent features in these cells and we estimate that the membrane separation and extension are about 15 nm and 300 nm, respectively. We also develop a quantitative model of the L-SR junction using these measurements, prior kinetic and specific Ca2+ signal information as input data. Simulations of NAADP-dependent junctional Ca2+ transients show that the magnitude of these signals can breach the threshold for CICR via RyR3. By correlation analysis of live cell Ca2+ signals and simulated L-SR junctional Ca2+ transients, we estimate that "trigger zones" with a 60-100 junctions are required to confer a signal of similar magnitude. This is compatible with the 130 lysosomes/cell estimated from our ultrastructural observations. Most importantly, our model shows that increasing the L-SR junctional width above 50 nm lowers the magnitude of junctional [Ca2+] such that there is a failure to breach the threshold for CICR via RyR3. L-SR junctions are therefore a pre-requisite for efficient Ca2+ signal coupling and may contribute to cellular function in health and disease.', u'The VgeneRepertoire.org platform (http://vgenerepertoire.org) is a new public database repository for variable (V) gene sequences that encode immunoglobulin and T-cell receptor molecules. It identifies the nucleic and amino acid sequences of more than 20,000 genes, providing their exon location in either the contig, scaffold, or chromosome region, as well as locus information for more than 100 jawed vertebrate taxa whose genomes have been sequenced.  This web repository provides support to immunologists interested in these molecules and aids in comparative phylogenetic studies.', u'Predicting spatial patterns of species diversity and composition using suitable environmental predictors is an essential element in conservation planning. Although species have distinct relationships to environmental conditions, some similarities may exist among species that share functional characteristics or traits. We investigated the relationship between species richness, composition and abiotic and biotic environment in different groups of butterflies that share ecological characteristics. We inventoried butterfly species richness in 192 sites and classified all inventoried species in three traits categories: the caterpillars diet breadth, the habitat requirements and the dispersal ability of the adults. We studied how environment, including influence butterfly species richness and composition within each trait category. Across four modelling approaches, the relative influence of environmental variables on butterfly species richness differed for specialists and generalists. Climatic variables were the main determinants of butterfly species richness and composition for generalists, whereas habitat diversity, and plant richness were also important for specialists. Prediction accuracy was lower for specialists than for generalists. \nAlthough climate variables represent the strongest drivers affecting butterfly species richness and composition for generalists, plant richness and habitat diversity are at least as important for specialist butterfly species. As specialist butterflies are among those species particularly threatened by global changes, devising accurate predictors to model specialist species richness is extremely important. However, our results indicate that this task will be challenging because more complex predictors are required.', u'Fragile X syndrome (FXS), a common form of inherited mental retardation, is caused by a loss of expression of the fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP). FMRP is involved in brain functions by interacting with mRNAs and microRNAs (miRNAs) that selectively control gene expression at translational level. However, little is known about the role of FMRP in regulating miRNA expression. Here, we found a development-dependant dynamic expression of Fmr1 mRNA (encoding FMRP) in mouse hippocampus with a small peak at postnatal day 7 (P7). MiRNA microarray analysis showed that the levels of 38 miRNAs showed a significant increase with about 15~250 folds and the levels of 26 miRNAs showed a significant decrease with only about 2~4 folds in the hippocampus of P7 Fmr1 KO mice. Q-PCR assay showed that 9 of the most increased miRNAs (>100 folds in microarrays) were increased about 40~70 folds and their pre-miRNAs were increased about 5~10 folds, but no significant difference in their pri-miRNA levels was observed, suggesting a role of FMRP in regulating miRNA processing from pri-miRNA to pre-miRNA. We further demonstrated that a set of protein-coding mRNAs, potentially targeted by the 9 miRNAs were down-regulated in the hippocampus of Fmr1 KO mice. Finally, luciferase assays demonstrated that miR-34b, miR-340, miR-148a could down-regulate the reporter gene expression by interacting with the Met 3\u2032 UTR. Taken together these findings suggest that the miRNA expression alterations resulted from the absence of FMRP might contribute to molecular pathology of FXS.', u'Next generation sequencing is being increasingly used for transcriptome-wide analysis of differential gene expression. The primary goal in profiling expression is to identify genes or RNA isoforms differentially expressed between specific conditions.   Yet, the next generation sequence-based count data are essentially different from the microarray data that are continuous type,  therefore, the statistical methods developed well over the last decades cannot be applicable.  For this reason, a variety of new statistical methods based on count data of transcript reads has been correspondingly developed. But currently the transcriptomic count data coming only from a few replicate libraries have high technical noise and small sample size bias, performances of these new methods are not desirable. We here developed a new statistical method specifically applicable to small sample count data called mBeta t-test for identifying differentially expressed gene or isoforms on the basis of the Beta t-test. The results obtained from simulated and real data showed that the mBeta t-test method significantly outperformed the existing statistical methods in all given scenarios.  Findings of our method were validated by qRT-PCR experiments. The mBeta t-test method significantly reduced true false discoveries in differentially expressed genes or isoforms so that it had high work efficiencies in all given scenarios.  In addition, the mBeta t-test method showed high stability in performance of statistical analysis and in estimation of FDR. These strongly suggests that our mBeta t-test method would offer us a creditable and reliable result of statistical analysis in practice.', u'In a host-parasite system, the constitutive interaction among the species, regulated by the growth rates and functional response, may induce populations to approach equilibrium or sometimes to exhibit simple cycles or peculiar oscillations, such as chaos. A large carrying capacity coupled with appropriate parasitism effectiveness frequently drives long-term apparent oscillatory dynamics in population size. We name these oscillations due to the structure of the constitutive interaction among species as ecological. \n\nOn the other hand, there are also exceptional cases when the evolving quantitative traits of the hosts and parasites induce oscillating population size, which we call as evolutionary. This oscillatory behavior is dependent on the speed of evolutionary adaptation and degree of evolutionary trade-off. A moderate level of negative trade-off is essential for the existence of oscillations. Evolutionary oscillations due to the host-parasite coevolution (known as the Red Queen) can be observed beyond the ecological oscillations, especially when there are more than two competing species involved.', u'Predicting biological structure has remained challenging for systems such as dis- ordered proteins that take on myriad conformations. Hybrid simulation/experiment strategies have been undermined by difficulties in evaluating errors from computa- tional model inaccuracies and data uncertainties. Building on recent proposals from maximum entropy theory and nonequilibrium thermodynamics, we address these issues through a Bayesian Energy Landscape Tilting (BELT) scheme for computing Bayesian \x93hyperensembles\x94 over conformational ensembles. BELT uses Markov chain Monte Carlo to directly sample maximum-entropy conformational ensembles consistent with a set of input experimental observables. To test this framework, we apply BELT to model trialanine, starting from disagreeing simulations with the force fields ff96, ff99, ff99sbnmr-ildn, CHARMM27, and OPLS-AA. BELT incorporation of limited chemical shift and 3J measurements gives convergent values of the peptide\x92s \u03b1, \u03b2, and PPII conformational populations in all cases. As a test of predictive power, all five BELT hyperensembles recover set-aside measurements not used in the fitting and report accu- rate errors, even when starting from highly inaccurate simulations. BELT\x92s principled framework thus enables practical predictions for complex biomolecular systems from discordant simulations and sparse data.', u'Mammalian females pay high energetic costs for reproduction, the greatest of which is imposed by lactation. The synthesis of milk requires, in part, the mobilization of bodily reserves to nourish developing young. Numerous hypotheses have been advanced to predict how mothers will differentially invest in sons and daughters, however few studies have addressed sex-biased milk synthesis.  Here we leverage the dairy cow model to investigate such phenomena. Using 2.39 million lactation records from 1.49 million dairy cows, we demonstrate that the sex of the fetus influences the capacity of the mammary gland to synthesize milk during lactation. Cows favor daughters, producing significantly more milk for daughters than for sons across lactation. Using a sub-sample of this dataset (N=113,750 subjects) we further demonstrate that the effects of fetal sex interact dynamically across parities, whereby the sex of the fetus being gestated can enhance or diminish the production of milk during an established lactation. Moreover the sex of the fetus gestated on the first parity has persistent consequences for milk synthesis on the subsequent parity. Specifically, gestation of a daughter on the first parity increases milk production by ~445 kg over the first two lactations. Our results identify a dramatic and sustained programming of mammary function by offspring in utero. Nutritional and endocrine conditions in utero are known to have pronounced and long-term effects on progeny, but the ways in which the progeny has sustained physiological effects on the dam have received little attention to date.', u'The analysis of whole-genome or exome sequencing data from trios and pedigrees has being successfully applied to the identification of disease-causing mutations. However, most methods used to identify and genotype genetic variants from next-generation sequencing data ignore the relationships between samples, resulting in significant Mendelian errors, false positives and negatives. Here we present a Bayesian network framework that jointly analyses data from all members of a pedigree simultaneously using Mendelian segregation priors, yet providing the ability to detect de novo mutations in offspring, and is scalable to large pedigrees. We evaluated our method by simulations and analysis of WGS data from a 17 individual, 3-generation CEPH pedigree sequenced to 50X average depth. Compared to singleton calling, our family caller produced more high quality variants and eliminated spurious calls as judged by common quality metrics such as Ti/Tv, Het/Hom ratios, and dbSNP/SNP array data concordance. We developed a ground truth dataset to further evaluate our calls by identifying recombination cross-overs in the pedigree and testing variants for consistency with the inferred phasing, and we show that our method significantly outperforms singleton and population variant calling in pedigrees. We identify all previously validated de novo mutations in NA12878, concurrent with a 7X precision improvement. Our results show that our method is scalable to large genomics and human disease studies and allows cost optimization by rational sequencing capacity distribution.', u'Incremental selection within a population, defined as a limited fitness change following a mutation, is an important aspect of many evolutionary processes and can significantly affect a large number of mutations through the genome. Strongly advantageous or deleterious mutations are detected through the fixation of mutations in the population, using the synonymous to non-synonymous mutations ratio in sequences. There are currently to precise methods to estimate incremental selection occurring over limited periods. We here provide for the first time such a detailed method and show its precision and its applicability to the genomic analysis of selection. \nA special case of evolution is rapid, short term micro-evolution, where organism are under constant adaptation, occurring for example in viruses infecting a new host, B cells mutating during a germinal center reactions or mitochondria evolving within a given host. \nThe proposed method is a novel mixed lineage tree/sequence based method to detect within population selection as defined by the effect of mutations on the average number of offspring. Specifically, we pro-pose to measure the log of the ratio between the number of leaves in lineage trees branches following synonymous and non-synonymous mutations. \nThis method does not suffer from the need of a baseline model and is practically not affected by sampling biases. In order to show the wide applicability of this method, we apply it to multiple cases of micro-evolution, and show that it can detect genes and inter-genic regions using the selection rate and detect selection pressures in viral proteins and in the immune response to pathogens.', u"Presented here are the structures of three biologically important sweet sugars, based on the additivity of covalent atomic radii in bond lengths. The observed smaller carbon-oxygen distances involving the 'anomeric' carbons of the open chain hexoses are explained here, for the first time, as due to the smaller covalent double bond radii of carbon and oxygen than their single bond radii in the cyclic forms and in sucrose. The atomic structures of all the three carbohydrates, drawn to scale in colour, have been presented here also for the first time.", u'A growing body of data suggests that the secondary structures adopted by G-rich polynucleotides may be more diverse than previously thought and that the definition of G-quadruplex-forming sequences should be broadened. We studied solution structures of a series of naturally occurring and model single-stranded DNA fragments defying the G3+NL1G3+NL2G3+NL3G3+ formula, which is used in most of the current GQ-search algorithms. The results confirm the GQ-forming potential of such sequences and suggest the existence of new types of GQs. We developed an improved (broadened) GQ-search algorithm (http://niifhm.ru/nauchnye-issledovanija/otdel-molekuljarnoj-biologii-i-genetiki/laboratorija-iskusstvennogo-antitelogeneza/497-2/) that accounts for the recently reported new types of GQs.', u'Copy number variation (CNV) is important and widespread in the genome, and is a major cause of disease and phenotypic diversity. Herein, we perform genome-wide CNV analysis in 12 diversified chicken genomes based on whole genome sequencing. A total of 9,025 CNV regions (CNVRs) covering 100.1 Mb and representing 9.6% of the chicken genome are identified, ranging in size from 1.1 to 268.8 kb with an average of 11.1 kb. Sequencing-based predictions are confirmed at high validation rate by two independent approaches, including array comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) and quantitative PCR (qPCR). The Pearson?s correlation values between sequencing and aCGH results range from 0.395 to 0.740, and qPCR experiments reveal a positive validation rate of 91.71% and a false negative rate of 22.43%. In total, 2,188 predicted CNVRs (24.2%) span 2,182 RefSeq genes (36.8%) associated with specific biological functions. Besides two previously accepted copy number variable genes EDN3 and PRLR, we also find some promising genes with potential in phenotypic variants. FZD6 and LIMS1, two genes related to diseases susceptibility and resistance are covered by CNVRs. Highly duplicated SOCS2 may lead to higher bone mineral density. Entire or partial duplication of some genes like POPDC3 and LBFABP may have great economic importance in poultry breeding. Our results based on extensive genetic diversity provide the first individualized chicken CNV map and genome-wide gene copy number estimates and warrant future CNV association studies for important traits of chickens.', u"Proteasome inhibition elicits an evolutionarily conserved response wherein proteasome subunit mRNAs are upregulated, resulting in recovery (i.e. 'bounce-back') of proteasome activity.  We previously demonstrated that the transcription factor Nrf1/NFE2L1 mediates this homeostatic response in mammalian cells.  We show here that Nrf1 is initially translocated into the lumen of the ER, but is rapidly and efficiently retrotranslocated to the cytosolic side of the membrane in a manner that depends on p97/VCP.  Normally, retrotranslocated Nrf1 is degraded promptly by the proteasome and active species do not accumulate.  However, in cells with compromised proteasomes, retrotranslocated Nrf1 escapes degradation and is cleaved N-terminal to Leu-104 to yield a fragment that is no longer tethered to the ER membrane.  Importantly, this cleavage event is essential for Nrf1-dependent activation of proteasome gene expression upon proteasome inhibition. Our data uncover an unexpected role for p97 in activation of a transcription factor by relocalizing it from the ER lumen to the cytosol.\nArticle now published as eLife 2014;3:e01856  http://dx.doi.org/10.7554/eLife.01856", u"The ability to locate and annotate mitochondrial genes is an important practical issue, given the rapidly increasing number of mitogenomes appearing in the public databases. Unfortunately, tRNA genes in Metazoan mitochondria have proved to be problematic because they often vary in number (genes missing or duplicated) and also in the secondary structure of the transcribed tRNAs (T or D arms missing). I have performed a series of comparative analyses of the tRNA genes of a broad range of Metazoan mitogenomes in order to address this issue. I conclude that no single computer program is necessarily capable of finding all of the tRNA genes in any given mitogenome, and that use of both the ARWEN and DOGMA programs is sometimes necessary because they produce complementary false negatives. There are apparently a very large number of erroneous annotations in the databased mitogenome sequences, including missed genes, wrongly annotated locations, false complements, and inconsistent criteria for assigning the 5' and 3' boundaries; and I have listed many of these. The extent of overlap between genes is often greatly exaggerated due to inconsistent annotations, although notable overlaps involving tRNAs are apparently real. Finally, three novel hypotheses were examined and found to have support from the comparative analyses: (1) some organisms have mitogenomic locations that simultaneously code for multiple tRNAs; (2) some organisms have mitogenomic locations that simultaneously code for tRNAs and proteins (but not rRNAs); and (3) one group of nematodes has several genes that code for tRNAs lacking both the D and T arms.", u'The three-dimensional conformations of non-coding RNAs underpin their biochemical functions but have largely eluded experimental characterization. Here, we report that integrating a classic mutation/rescue strategy with high-throughput chemical mapping enables rapid RNA structure inference with unusually strong validation. We revisit a paradigmatic 16S rRNA domain for which SHAPE (selective 2\xb4-hydroxyl acylation with primer extension) suggested a conformational change between apo- and holo-ribosome conformations. Computational support estimates, data from alternative chemical probes, and mutate-and-map (M2) experiments expose limitations of prior methodology and instead give a near-crystallographic secondary structure. Systematic interrogation of single base pairs via a high-throughput mutation/rescue approach then permits incisive validation and refinement of the M2-based secondary structure and further uncovers the functional conformation as an excited state (25\xb15% population) accessible via a single-nucleotide register shift. These results correct an erroneous SHAPE inference of a ribosomal conformational change and suggest a general mutate-map-rescue approach for dissecting RNA dynamic structure landscapes.', u'Identifying the genetic and ecological basis of adaptation is of immense importance in evolutionary biology. In our study, we applied a panel of 58 biallelic single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) for the economically and culturally important salmonid Oncorhynchus keta. Samples included 4164 individuals from 43 populations ranging from Coastal Western Alaska to southern British Colombia and northern Washington. Signatures of natural selection were detected by identifying seven outlier loci using two independent approaches: one based on outlier detection and another based on environmental correlations. Evidence of divergent selection at two candidate SNP loci, Oke_RFC2-168 and Oke_MARCKS-362, indicates significant environmental correlations, particularly with the number of frost-free days (NFFD). Important associations found between environmental variables and outlier loci indicate that those environmental variables could be the major driving forces of allele frequency divergence at the candidate loci. NFFD, in particular, may play an important adaptive role in shaping genetic variation in O. keta. Correlations between divergent selection and local environmental variables will help shed light on processes of natural selection and molecular adaptation to local environmental conditions.', u'Large scale genetic screening is tedious and time-consuming. To address this problem, we propose a novel two-tiered screening system comprising an initial "pooling" screen that identifies miRNAs whose tissue-specific over-expression causes a phenotype of interest followed by a more focused secondary screen that uses gene-specific RNAi. As miRNAs inhibit translation or direct the destruction of their target mRNAs, any phenotype observed with miRNA over-expression can be attributed to the loss-of-function of one or more target mRNAs. Since miRNA-target pairing is sequence-specific, a list of predicted targets for miRNAs identified in the initial screen serves as a list of candidates for the secondary RNAi-based screen. These predicted miRNA targets can be prioritized by expression pattern, and if multiple miRNAs produce the same phenotype, overlapping target predictions can be given higher priority in the follow-up screen.\n\nSince miRNAs are short, miRNA misexpression will likely uncover artifactual miRNA-target relationships. Thus, we are using miRNAs as a tool to accelerate genetic screening rather than focus on the biology of miRNAs themselves. This two-tiered system allows us to rapidly identify individual target genes involved in a phenomenon of interest, often in less than 200 crosses. Here we demonstrate the effectiveness of this method by identifying miRNAs that alter Drosophila odorant receptor expression. With subsequent miRNA target prediction and follow-up RNAi screening we identify and validate a novel role for the transcription factor Atf3 in the expression of the socially relevant receptor Or47b.', u'Population genetics theory has laid the foundations for genomics analyses including the recent burst in genome scans for selection and statistical inference of past demographic events in many prokaryote, animal and plant species. Identifying SNPs under natural selection and underpinning species adaptation relies on disentangling the respective contribution of random processes (mutation, drift, migration) from that of selection on nucleotide variability. Most theory and statistical tests have been developed using the Kingman\x92s coalescent theory based on the Wright-Fisher population model. However, these theoretical models rely on biological and life-history assumptions which may be violated in many prokaryote, fungal, animal or plant species. Recent theoretical developments of the so called multiple merger coalescent models are reviewed here (\u039b-coalescent, beta-coalescent, Bolthausen-Snitzman, \u039e-coalescent). We explicit how these new models take into account various pervasive ecological and biological characteristics, life history traits or life cycles which were not accounted in previous theories such as 1) the skew in offspring production typical of marine species, 2) fast adapting microparasites (virus, bacteria and fungi) exhibiting large variation in population sizes during epidemics, 3) the peculiar life cycles of fungi and bacteria alternating sexual and asexual cycles, and 4) the high rates of extinction-recolonization in spatially structured populations. We finally discuss the relevance of multiple merger models for the detection of SNPs under selection in these species, for population genomics of very large sample size and advocate to potentially examine the conclusion of previous population genetics studies.', u"Most free-swimming bacteria move in approximately straight lines, interspersed with random reorientation phases. A key open question concerns varying mechanisms by which reorientation occurs. We combine mathematical modelling with analysis of a large tracking dataset to study the poorly-understood reorientation mechanism in the monoflagellate species Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The flagellum on this species rotates counterclockwise to propel the bacterium, periodically ceasing rotation to enable reorientation. When rotation restarts the cell body usually points in a new direction. It has been assumed that the new direction is simply the result of Brownian rotation. We consider three variants of a self-propelled particle model of bacterial motility. The first considers rotational diffusion only, corresponding to a non-chemotactic mutant strain. A further two models also include stochastic reorientations, describing 'run-and-tumble' motility. We derive expressions for key summary statistics and simulate each model using a stochastic computational algorithm. We also discuss the effect of cell geometry on rotational diffusion. Working with a previously published tracking dataset, we compare predictions of the models with data on individual stopping events in R. sphaeroides. This provides strong evidence that this species undergoes some form of active reorientation rather than simple reorientation by Brownian rotation.", u'Parasites and hosts are intimately associated such that changes in the diversity of one partner are thought to lead to changes in the other. We investigated this linked diversity hypothesis in a specialized ant-Ophiocordyceps system in three forests across 750 km in Central Amazonia. All species belonging to the fungal genus Ophiocordyceps associated with ants have evolved some degree of behavioral control to increase their own transmission, but the leaf-biting behavior is the most complex form of host manipulation. Such a system requires control of the mandibular muscles and a distinct shift in behavior, from climbing vegetation to walking on leaves to rasping leaf veins in the seconds before death. The need to induce complex behavior may limit host availability and represent a constraint on parasite diversity. The consequence for community structure is that complex behavioral manipulation leads to a mismatch between ant hosts and the diversity of their fungal parasites', u'1. Detecting aquatic macroorganisms with environmental DNA (eDNA) is a new survey method with broad applicability. However, the origin, state, and fate of aqueous macrobial eDNA - which collectively determine how well eDNA can serve as a proxy for directly observing organisms and how eDNA should be captured, purified, and assayed - are poorly understood. \n2. The size of aquatic particles provides clues about their origin, state, and fate. We used sequential filtration size fractionation to measure, for the first time, the particle size distribution (PSD) of macrobial eDNA, specifically Common Carp (hereafter referred to as Carp) eDNA. We compared it to the PSDs of total eDNA (from all organisms) and suspended particle matter (SPM). We quantified Carp mitochondrial eDNA using a custom qPCR assay, total eDNA with fluorometry, and SPM with gravimetric analysis.   \n3. In a lake and a pond, we found Carp eDNA in particles from >180 to <0.2 \xb5m, but it was most abundant from 1-10 \xb5m. Total eDNA was most abundant below 0.2 \xb5m and SPM was most abundant above 100 \xb5m. SPM was \u22640.1% total eDNA, and total eDNA was \u22640.0004% Carp eDNA. 0.2 \xb5m filtration maximized Carp eDNA capture (85%\xb16%) while minimizing total (i.e., non-target) eDNA capture (48%\xb13%), but filter clogging limited this pore size to a volume <250 mL. To mitigate this limitation we estimated a continuous PSD model for Carp eDNA and derived an equation for calculating isoclines of pore size and water volume that yield equivalent amounts of Carp eDNA. \n4. Our results suggest that aqueous macrobial eDNA predominantly exists inside mitochondria or cells, and that settling plays an important role in its fate. For optimal eDNA capture, we recommend 0.2 \xb5m filtration or a combination of larger pore size and water volume that exceeds the 0.2 \xb5m isocline. In situ filtration of large volumes could maximize detection probability when surveying large habitats for rare organisms. Our method for eDNA particle size analysis enables future research to compare the PSDs of eDNA from other organisms and environments, and to easily apply them for ecological monitoring.', u'Background: HIV-1-infected cells in peripheral blood can be grouped into different transcriptional subclasses. Quantifying the turnover of these cellular subclasses can provide important insights into the viral life cycle and the generation and maintenance of latently infected cells. \n\nResults: We used previously published data from five patients chronically infected with HIV-1 that initiated combination antiretroviral therapy (cART). Patient-matched PCR for unspliced and multiply spliced viral RNAs combined with limiting dilution analysis provided measurements of transcriptional profiles at the single cell level. Furthermore, measurement of intracellular transcripts and extracellular virion-enclosed HIV-1 RNA allowed us to distinguish productive from non-productive cells. We developed a mathematical model describing the dynamics of plasma virus and the transcriptional subclasses of HIV-1-infected cells. Fitting the model to the data allowed us to better understand the phenotype of different transcriptional subclasses and their contribution to the overall turnover of HIV-1 before and during cART. The average number of virus-producing cells in peripheral blood is small during chronic infection (25.7 cells per ml). We find that 14.0%, 0.3% and 21.2% of infected cells become defectively, latently and persistently infected cells, respectively. Assuming that the infection is homogenous throughout the body, we estimate an average in vivo viral burst size of 2.1 x 10^4 virions per cell.\n\nConclusions: Our study provides novel quantitative insights into the turnover and development of different subclasses of HIV-1-infected cells. The model predicts that the pool of latently infected cells becomes rapidly established during the first months of acute infection and continues to increase slowly during the first years of chronic infection. Having a detailed understanding of this process will be useful for the evaluation of viral eradication strategies that aim to deplete the latent reservoir of HIV-1.', u'The seed bank dynamics of the three co-occurring obligate-seeder (i.e. fire-sensitive) Proteaceae species, Banksia ericifolia, Banksia marginata and Petrophile pulchella, were examined at sites of varying time since the most recent fire (i.e. plant age) in the Sydney region. Significant variation among species was found in the number of cones produced, the position of the cones within the canopy, the percentage of barren cones produced (Banksia species only), the number of follicles/bracts produced per cone, and the number of seeds lost/released due to spontaneous fruit rupture. Thus, three different regeneration strategies were observed, highlighting the variation in reproductive strategies of co-occurring Proteaceae species. Ultimately, B. marginata potentially accumulated a seed bank of ~3000 seeds per plant after 20 years, with ~1500 seeds per plant for P. pulchella and ~500 for B. ericifolia. Based on these data, B. marginata and B. ericifolia require a minimum fire-free period of 8\x9610 years, with 7\x968 years for P. pulchella, to allow for an adequate seed bank to accumulate and thus ensure local persistence of these species in fire-prone habitats.', u'The quest for the ecological niches of Saccharomyces cerevisiae ranged from wineries to oaks and more recently to the gut of Crabro Wasps. Here we propose the role of the human gut in shaping S. cerevisiae evolution, presenting the genetic structure of a previously unknown population of yeasts, associated with Crohn?s disease, providing evidence for clonal expansion within human?s gut. To understand the role of immune function in the human-yeast interaction we classified strains according to their immunomodulatory properties, discovering a set of genetically homogeneous isolates, capable of inducing anti-inflammatory signals via regulatory T cells proliferation, and on the contrary, a positive association between strain mosaicism and ability to elicit inflammatory, IL-17 driven, immune responses. The approach integrating genomics with immune phenotyping showed selection on genes involved in sporulation and cell wall remodeling as central for the evolution of S. cerevisiae Crohn?s strains from passengers to commensals to potential pathogens.', u'The clonal theory of adaptive immunity proposes that immunological responses are encoded by increases in the frequency of lymphocytes carrying antigen-specific receptors. In this study, we measure the frequency of different TcRs in CD4+ T cell populations of mice immunized with a complex antigen, killed Mycobacterium tuberculosis, using high throughput parallel sequencing of the TcR beta chain. In order to track the changes induced by immunization within this very heterogeneous repertoire, the sequence data were classified by counting the frequency of different clusters of short (3 or 4) continuous stretches of amino acids within the CDR3 repertoire of different mice. Both unsupervised (hierarchical clustering) and supervised (support vector machine) analysis of these different distributions of sequence clusters differentiated between immunised and unimmunised mice with 100\\% efficiency. The CD4+ T cell receptor repertoires of mice 5 and 14 days post immunisation were clearly different from that of unimmunised mice, but were not distinguishable from each other. However, the repertoires of mice 60 days post immunisation were distinct both from naive mice, and the day 5/14 animals. Our results reinforce the remarkable diversity of the T cell receptor repertoire, resulting in many diverse private TcRs  contributing to the T cell response even in genetically identical mice responding to the same antigen. Finally, specific motifs defined by short sequences of amino acids within the CDR3 region may have a major effect on TcR specificity. The results of this study provide new insights into the properties of the CD4+ adaptive T cell response.', u'Determining the full complement of protein-coding genes is a key goal of genome annotation. The most powerful approach for confirming protein coding potential is the detection of cellular protein expression through peptide mass spectrometry experiments. Here we map the peptides detected in 7 large-scale proteomics studies to almost 60% of the protein coding genes in the GENCODE annotation the human genome. We find that conservation across vertebrate species and the age of the gene family are key indicators of whether a peptide will be detected in proteomics experiments. We find peptides for most highly conserved genes and for practically all genes that evolved before bilateria. At the same time there is almost no evidence of protein expression for genes that have appeared since primates, or for genes that do not have any protein-like features or cross-species conservation. We identify 19 non-protein-like features such as weak conservation, no protein features or ambiguous annotations in major databases that are indicators of low peptide detection rates. We use these features to describe a set of 2,001 genes that are potentially non-coding, and show that many of these genes behave more like non-coding genes than protein-coding genes. We detect peptides for just 3% of these genes. We suggest that many of these 2,001 genes do not code for proteins under normal circumstances and that they should not be included in the human protein coding gene catalogue. These potential non-coding genes will be revised as part of the ongoing human genome annotation effort.', u'We report the effects of posture and morphology on the static aerodynamic stability and control effectiveness of physical models based on the feathered dinosaur, Microraptor gui, from the Cretaceous of China. Postures had similar lift and drag coefficients and were broadly similar when simplified metrics of gliding were considered, but they exhibited different stability characteristics depending on the position of the legs and the presence of feathers on the legs and the tail. Both stability and the function of appendages in generating maneuvering forces and torques changed as the glide angle or angle of attack were changed. These are significant because they represent an aerial environment that may have shifted during the evolution of directed aerial descent and other aerial behaviors. Certain movements were particularly effective (symmetric movements of the wings and tail in pitch, asymmetric wing movements, some tail movements). Other appendages altered their function from creating yaws at high angle of attack to\nrolls at low angle of attack, or reversed their function entirely. While M. gui lived after Archaeopteryx and likely represents a side experiment with feathered morphology, the general patterns of stability and control effectiveness suggested from the manipulations of forelimb, hindlimb and tail morphology here\nmay help understand the evolution of flight control aerodynamics in vertebrates. Though these results rest on a single specimen, as further fossils with different morphologies tested, the findings here could be applied in a phylogenetic context to reveal biomechanical constraints on extinct flyers arising from the\nneed to maneuver.\n\nNow published in PLOS ONE http://dx.plos.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0085203', u'Mutualistic networks are formed when the interactions between two classes of species are mutually beneficial. They are important examples of cooperation shaped by evolution. Mutualism between animals and plants has a key role in the organization of ecological communities. Such networks in ecology have generally evolved a nested architecture independent of species composition and latitude; specialist species, with only few mutualistic links, tend to interact with a proper subset of the many mutualistic partners of any of the generalist species. Despite sustained efforts to explain observed network structure on the basis of community-level stability or persistence, such correlative studies have reached minimal consensus. Here we show that nested interaction networks could emerge as a consequence of an optimization principle aimed atmaximizing the species abundance in mutualistic communities. Using analytical and numerical approaches, we show that because of the mutualistic interactions, an increase in abundance of a given species results in a corresponding increase in the total number of individuals in the community, and also an increase in the nestedness of the interaction matrix. Indeed, the species abundances and the nestedness of the interaction matrix are correlated by a factor that depends on the strength of the mutualistic interactions. Nestedness and the observed spontaneous emergence of generalist and specialist species occur for several dynamical implementations of the variational principle under stationary conditions. Optimized networks, although remaining stable, tend to be less resilient than their counterparts with randomly assigned interactions. In particular, we show analytically that the abundance of the rarest species is linked directly to the resilience of the community. Our work provides a unifying framework for studying the emergent structural and dynamical properties of ecological mutualistic networks.', u'The widespread and rapid adoption of high-throughput sequencing technologies has changed the face of modern studies of evolutionary genetics. Indeed, newer sequencing technologies, like Illumina sequencing, have afforded researchers the opportunity to gain a deep understanding of genome level processes that underlie evolutionary change. In particular, researchers interested in functional biology and adaptation have used these technologies to sequence mRNA transcriptomes of specific tissues, which in turn are often compared to other tissues, or other individuals with different phenotypes. While these techniques are extremely powerful, careful attention to data quality is required. In particular, because high-throughput sequencing is more error-prone than traditional Sanger sequencing, quality trimming of sequence reads should be an important step in all data processing pipelines. While several software packages for quality trimming exist, no general guidelines for the specifics of trimming have been developed. Here, using empirically derived sequence data, I provide general recommendations regarding the optimal strength of trimming, specifically in mRNA-Seq studies. Although very aggressive quality trimming is common, this study suggests that a more gentle trimming, specifically of those nucleotides whose Phred score < 2 or < 5, is optimal for most studies across a wide variety of metrics.', u'To investigate in detail the paternal and maternal demographic histories of humans, we obtained ~500 kb of non-recombining Y chromosome (NRY) sequences and complete mtDNA genome sequences from 623 males from 51 populations in the CEPH Human Genome Diversity Panel (HGDP). Our results: confirm the controversial assertion that genetic differences between human populations on a global scale are bigger for the NRY than for mtDNA; suggest very small ancestral effective population sizes (<100) for the out-of-Africa migration as well as for many human populations; and indicate that the ratio of female effective population size to male effective population size (Nf/Nm) has been greater than one throughout the history of modern humans, and has recently increased due to faster growth in Nf. However, we also find substantial differences in patterns of mtDNA vs. NRY variation in different regional groups; thus, global patterns of variation are not necessarily representative of specific geographic regions.', u'Background\nChromothripsis is a recently discovered phenomenon of genomic rearrangement, possibly arising during a single genome-shattering event. This could provide an alternative paradigm in cancer development, replacing the gradual accumulation of genomic changes with a \x93one-off\x94 catastrophic event. However, the term has been used with varying operational definitions, with the minimal consensus being a large number of locally clustered copy number aberrations. The mechanisms underlying these chromothripsis-like patterns (CTLP) and their specific impact on tumorigenesis are still poorly understood.\nResults\nHere, we identified CTLP in 918 cancer samples, from a dataset of more than 22,000 oncogenomic arrays covering 132 cancer types. Fragmentation hotspots were found to be located on chromosome 8, 11, 12 and 17. Among the various cancer types, soft-tissue tumors exhibited particularly high CTLP frequencies. Genomic context analysis revealed that CTLP rearrangements frequently occurred in genomes that additionally harbored multiple copy number aberrations (CNAs). An investigation into the affected chromosomal regions showed a large proportion of arm-level pulverization and telomere related events, which would be compatible to a number of underlying mechanisms. We also report evidence that these genomic events may be correlated with patient age, stage and survival rate.\nConclusions\nThrough a large-scale analysis of oncogenomic array data sets, this study characterized features associated with genomic aberrations patterns, compatible to the spectrum of \x93chromothripsis\x94-definitions as previously used. While quantifying clustered genomic copy number aberrations in cancer samples, our data indicates an underlying biological heterogeneity behind these chromothripsis-like patterns, beyond a well defined \x93chromthripsis\x94 phenomenon.', u"The Data Rate Theorem carries deep implications for theories of embodied cognition, extensions providing a spectrum of necessary conditions dynamic statistical models useful in empirical studies. A large deviations argument, however, implies that the regulation and stabilization of such systems is itself an interpenetrating phenomenon necessarily convoluted with embodied cognition. For humans, the central regulatory role of culture has long been known. Although a ground-state collapse analogous to generalized anxiety appears ubiquitous to such systems, lack of cultural modulation in real-time automatons or distributed cognition man-machine 'cockpits' makes them subject to a pathology under which 'all possible targets are enemies'.", u'Regulation of nuclear transport is a key cellular function involved in many central processes, such as gene expression regulation and signal transduction. Rates of protein movement between cellular compartments can be measured by FRAP. However, no standard and reliable methods to calculate transport rates exist. Here we introduce a method to extract import and export rates, suitable for noisy single cell data. This method consists of microscope procedures, routines for data processing, an ODE model to fit to the data, and algorithms for parameter optimization and error estimation.\nUsing this method, we successfully measured import and export rates in individual yeast. For YFP, average transport rates were 0.15 sec-1. We estimated confidence intervals for these parameters through likelihood pro\ufb01le analysis. We found large cell-to-cell variation (CV = 0.79) in these rates, suggesting a hitherto unknown source of cellular heterogeneity. Given the passive nature of YFP diffusion, we attribute this variation to large differences among cells in the number or quality of nuclear pores. \nOwing to its broad applicability and sensitivity, this method will allow deeper mechanistic insight into nuclear transport processes and into the largely unstudied cell-to-cell variation in kinetic rates.', u'Next-generation sequencing is increasingly being used to study samples composed of mixtures of organisms, such as in clinical applications where the presence of a pathogen at very low abundance may be highly important. We present an analytical method (SIANN: Strain Identification by Alignment to Near Neighbors) specifically designed to rapidly detect a set of target organisms in mixed samples that achieves a high degree of species- and strain-specificity by aligning short sequence reads to the genomes of near neighbor organisms, as well as that of the target. Empirical benchmarking alongside the current state-of-the-art methods shows an extremely high Positive Predictive Value, even at very low abundances of the target organism in a mixed sample. SIANN is available as an Illumina BaseSpace app, as well as through Signature Science, LLC. SIANN results are presented in a streamlined report designed to be comprehensible to the non-specialist user, providing a powerful tool for rapid species detection in a mixed sample. By focusing on a set of (customizable) target organisms and their near neighbors, SIANN can operate quickly and with low computational requirements while delivering highly accurate results.', u'We recently demonstrated that dynein and kinesin motors drive multiple aspects of endosomal function in mammalian cells. These functions include driving motility, maintaining morphology (notably through providing longitudinal tension to support vesicle fission), and driving cargo sorting. Microtubule motors drive bidirectional motility during traffic between the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and Golgi. Here, we have examined the role of microtubule motors in transport carrier motility, morphology, and domain organization during ER-to-Golgi transport. We show that consistent with our findings for endosomal dynamics, microtubule motor function during ER-to-Golgi transport of secretory cargo is required for motility, morphology of, and cargo sorting within vesicular tubular carriers en route to the Golgi. Our data are consistent with previous findings that defined roles for dynein-1 and kinesin-1 (KIF5B) and kinesin-2 in this trafficking step. Our high resolution tracking data identify some intriguing aspects. Depletion of kinesin-1 reduces the number of motile structures seen which is in line with other findings relating to the role of kinesin-1 in ER export. However, those transport carriers that were produced had a much greater run length suggesting that this motor can act as a brake on anterograde motility. Kinesin-2 depletion did not significantly reduce the number of motile transport carriers but did cause a similar increase in run length. These data suggest that kinesins act as negative regulators of ER-to-Golgi transport. Depletion of dynein not only reduced the number of motile carriers formed but also caused tubulation of carriers similar to that seen for SNX-coated early endosomes. Our data indicated that the previously observed anterograde-retrograde polarity of transport carriers in transit to the Golgi from the ER is maintained by microtubule motor function.', u'Epigenetic histone modifications play an important role in the maintenance of different cell phenotypes. The exact molecular mechanism for inheritance of the modification patterns over cell generations remains elusive. We construct a Potts-type model based on experimentally observed nearest-neighbor enzyme lateral interactions and nucleosome covalent modification state biased enzyme recruitment. The model can lead to effective nonlocal interactions among nucleosomes suggested in previous theoretical studies, and epigenetic memory is robustly inheritable against stochastic cellular processes.', u'The multi-species coalescent has provided important progress for evolutionary inferences, including increasing the statistical rigor and objectivity of comparisons among competing species delimitation models. However, Bayesian species delimitation methods typically require brute force integration over gene trees via Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC), which introduces a large computation burden and precludes their application to genomic-scale data. Here we combine a recently introduced dynamic programming algorithm for estimating species trees that bypasses MCMC integration over gene trees with sophisticated methods for estimating marginal likelihoods, needed for Bayesian model selection, to provide a rigorous and computationally tractable technique for genome-wide species delimitation. We provide a critical yet simple correction that brings the likelihoods of different species trees, and more importantly their corresponding marginal likelihoods, to the same common denominator, which enables direct and accurate comparisons of competing species delimitation models using Bayes factors. We test this approach, which we call Bayes factor delimitation (*with genomic data; BFD*), using common species delimitation scenarios with computer simulations. Varying the numbers of loci and the number of samples suggest that the approach can distinguish the true model even with few loci and limited samples per species. Misspecification of the prior for population size \u03b8 has little impact on support for the true model. We apply the approach to West African forest geckos (Hemidactylus fasciatus complex) using genome-wide SNP data data. This new Bayesian method for species delimitation builds on a growing trend for objective species delimitation methods with explicit model assumptions that are easily tested.', u'This paper reports an initial design of new data-structures that generalizes the idea of pattern- matching in stringology, from its traditional usage in an (unstructured) set of strings to the arena of a well-structured family of strings. In particular, the object of interest is a family of strings composed of blocks/classes of highly similar \x93stringlets,\x94 and thus mimic a population of genomes made by concatenating haplotype-blocks, further constrained by haplotype-phasing. Such a family of strings, which we dub \x93stringomes,\x94 is formalized in terms of a multi-partite directed acyclic graph with a source and a sink. The most interesting property of stringomes is probably the fact that they can be represented efficiently with compression up to their k-th order empirical entropy, while ensuring that the compression does not hinder the pattern-matching counting and reporting queries \x96 either internal to a block or spanning two (or a few constant) adjacent blocks. The solutions proposed here have immediate applications to next-generation sequencing technologies, base-calling, expression profiling, variant-calling, population studies, onco-genomics, cyber security trace analysis and text retrieval.', u'In this paper we study Copy Number Variation (CNV) data. The underlying process generating CNV segments is generally assumed to be memory-less, giving rise to an exponential distribution of segment lengths. In this paper, we provide evidence from cancer patient data, which suggests that this generative model is too simplistic, and that segment lengths follow a power-law distribution instead. We conjecture a simple preferential attachment generative model that provides the basis for the observed power-law distribution. We then show how an existing statistical method for detecting cancer driver genes can be improved by incorporating the power-law distribution in the null model.', u"Dorsal Hippocampal neurons provide an allocentric map of space, characterized by three key properties. First, their firing is spatially selective, termed a rate code. Second, as animals traverse through place fields, neurons sustain elevated firing rates for long periods, however this has received little attention. Third the theta-phase of spikes within this sustained activity varies with animal's location, termed phase-precession or a temporal code. The precise relationship between these properties and the mechanisms governing them are not understood, although distal visual cues (DVC) are thought to be sufficient to reliably elicit them. Hence, we measured rat CA1 neurons' activity during random foraging in two-dimensional VR\x97where only DVC provide consistent allocentric location information\x97 and compared it with their activity in real world (RW).  Surprisingly, we found little spatial selectivity in VR. This is in sharp contrast to robust spatial selectivity commonly seen in one-dimensional RW and VR, or two-dimensional RW. Despite this, neurons in VR generated approximately two-second long phase precessing spike sequences, termed \x93hippocampal motifs\x94. Motifs, and \x93Motif-fields\x94, an aggregation of all motifs of a neuron, had qualitatively similar properties including theta-scale temporal coding in RW and VR, but the motifs were far less spatially localized in VR. These results suggest that intrinsic, network mechanisms generate temporally coded hippocampal motifs, which can be dissociated from their spatial selectivity. Further, DVC alone are insufficient to localize motifs spatially to generate a robust rate code.", u'Henrich (2004) argued that larger populations can better maintain complex technologies because they contain more highly skilled people whom others can imitate. His original model, however, did not distinguish the effects of population size from population density or network size; a learner\'s social network included the entire population. Does population size remain important when populations are subdivided and networks are realistically small? I use a mathematical model to show that population size has little effect on equilibrium levels of mean skill under a wide range of conditions. The effects of network size and transmission error rate usually overshadow that of population size. Population size can, however, affect the rate at which a population approaches equilibrium, by increasing the rate at which innovations arise. This effect is small unless innovation is very rare. Whether population size predicts technological complexity in the real world, then, depends on whether technological evolution is innovation-limited and short of equilibrium. The effect of population "connectedness," via migration or trade, is similar. I discuss the results of this analysis in light of the current empirical debate.', u'Biologically meaningful and standardized definitions of life stages are essential for demographic studies, especially for endangered and intensively managed species such as rhinoceros. Focusing on the black rhinoceros Diceros bicornis, we argue that standardized biological definitions of calf, subadult, and adult, rather than age classes, provide the appropriate basis for black rhinoceros demography. Age classes do not correlate well with the risks of mortality nor characterize, at least for females, the attainment of reproductive maturity. Black rhinoceros demography based on age classes, typical of existing literature, obscures the significance of studies of mortality and fecundity. Comparison of studies also requires standardized definitions. We propose biologically meaningful definitions of life stages appropriate for the demography of the black rhinoceros and encourage the community of rhinoceros researchers to reach consensus on standardized, demographically appropriate definitions for adoption for each rhinoceros species.', u'Vaccines are the cornerstone of influenza control policy, but can suffer\nfrom several drawbacks. Seasonal influenza vaccines are prone to\nproduction problems and low efficacies, while pandemic vaccines are\nunlikely to be available in time to slow a rapidly spreading global outbreak.\nAntiviral therapy was found to be beneficial during the influenza\nA(H1N1)pdm09 pandemic even with limited use; however, antiviral use\nhas decreased further since then. We seek to determine the role antiviral\ntherapy can play in pandemic and seasonal influenza control on the\npopulation level, and to find optimized strategies for more efficient use of\ntreatment. Using an age-structured contact network model for an urban\npopulation, we find that while a conservative antiviral therapy strategy\ncannot replace a robust influenza vaccine, it can play a role in reducing\nattack rates and eliminating outbreaks.', u'The rice XA21 immune receptor kinase and the structurally related XA3 receptor, confer immunity to Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), the causal agent of bacterial leaf blight. Here we report the isolation of OsSERK2 (rice somatic embryogenesis receptor kinase 2) and demonstrate that OsSERK2 positively regulates immunity mediated by XA21 and XA3 as well as the rice immune receptor FLS2 (OsFLS2). Rice plants silenced for OsSerk2 display altered morphology and reduced sensitivity to the hormone brassinolide. OsSERK2 interacts with the intracellular domains of each immune receptor in the yeast-two-hybrid system in a kinase activity dependent manner. OsSERK2 undergoes bidirectional trans-phosphorylation with XA21 in vitro and forms a constitutive complex with XA21 in vivo. Taken together, these results demonstrate an essential role for OsSERK2 in the function of three rice immune receptors and suggest that direct interaction with the rice immune receptors is critical for their function.', u'Dwarfism is a condition characterized by shorter stature, at times accompanied by differential skeletal growth proportions relative to the species-typical physical conformation. Causes vary and well-documented in humans as well as certain mammalian species in captive or laboratory conditions, but rarely observed in the wild. Here we report on a single case of apparent dwarfism in a free-ranging adult male Asian elephant (Elephas maximus) in Sri Lanka, comparing physical dimensions to those of other males in the same population, males in other populations, and records in previous literature. The subject was found to have a shoulder height of approximately 195cm, is shorter than the average height of typical mature males, with a body length of 218cm. This ratio of body length to height deviates from what is typically observed, which is approximately 1:1. In absolute height the subject was similar to the attributes of a captive elephant documented in 1955 in Sri Lanka, also said to be a dwarf, however the two specimens differed in the relative proportions of height vs. body length. The subject also exhibits a slight elongation of the skull. We discuss how this phenotype compares to cases of dwarfism in other non-human animals.', u'The additive genetic effect is arguably the most important quantity inferred in animal and plant breeding analyses. The term effect indicates that it represents causal information, which is different from standard statistical concepts as regression coefficient and association. The process of inferring causal information is also different from standard statistical learning, as the former requires causal (i.e. non-statistical) assumptions and involves extra complexities. Remarkably, the task of inferring genetic effects is largely seen as a standard regression/prediction problem, contradicting its label. This widely accepted analysis approach is by itself insufficient for causal learning, suggesting that causality is not the point for selection. Given this incongruence, it is important to verify if genomic predictors need to represent causal effects to be relevant for selection decisions, especially because applying regression studies to answer causal questions may lead to wrong conclusions. The answer to this question defines if genomic selection models should be constructed aiming maximum genomic predictive ability or aiming identifiability of genetic causal effects. Here, we demonstrate that selection relies on a causal effect from genotype to phenotype, and that genomic predictors are only useful for selection if they distinguish such effect from other sources of association. Conversely, genomic predictors capturing non-causal signals provide information that is less relevant for selection regardless of the resulting predictive ability. Focusing on covariate choice decision, simulated examples are used to show that predictive ability, which is the criterion normally used to compare models, may not indicate the quality of genomic predictors for selection. Additionally, we propose using alternative criteria to construct models aiming for the identification of the genetic causal effects.', u'Abstract\nThe ubiquity and importance of short duplex RNAs, termed microRNA (miRNA), for\nnormal development in higher eukaryotes are becoming increasingly clear. We had\npreviously shown that reduction-of-function mutations in Arabidopsis thaliana DCL1\n(DICER-LIKE1) gene, affecting the nucleus-localized protein that produces 19-25\nnucleotides long miRNA species from longer double stranded RNA precursors, cause a\ndelay in flowering by prolonging the period of juvenile organ development. Here we\nshow that DCL1 transcription is increased at the critical phase of juvenile to reproductive\ndevelopmental transition, and that DCL1 protein is localized in meristematic cells of the\nshoot, inflorescence and flowering meristem. DCL1 protein is also expressed in the\novule funiculus, ovule integuments, and in early but not late embryo. Genetic analysis\nrevealed that DCL1 exerts its effect along the same pathway that involves the floral\npathway integrator gene LEAFY. Results are most consistent with the idea that DCL1\nprotein is required in the shoot apical meristem to prevent uncontrolled proliferation of\nmeristematic cells. The expression of DCL1 protein in the early embryo may be either\nvia the transmission of DCL1 mRNA through the female gametophyte, as suggested from\nthe sporophytic maternal effect of dcl1-8 on early embryo development, or from DCL1\nmRNA synthesized in early embryo cells off the maternally transmitted allele. The\nrequirement of an active maternally transmitted allele of DCL1 for normal early embryo\ndevelopment, and the presence of DCL1 protein in the early embryo, together suggest\nthat the synthesis of miRNA in early embryo cells is critical for development, but does\nnot rule out potential maternal contribution of miRNA or its precursor molecules into the\nembryo. (Manuscript was prepared on February 2, 2007, and has been unaltered since)', u'The origin of cooperation is a central problem in evolutionary biology and social science. Cultural group selection and parochial altruism are popular but controversial evolutionary explanations for large-scale cooperation. Proponents of the cultural group selection hypothesis argue that the human tendency to conform - a consequence of our reliance on social learning - maintained sufficient between-group variation to allow group selection (which favors altruism) to overpower individual selection (which favors selfishness), whereupon large-scale altruism could emerge. Proponents of the parochial altruism hypothesis argue that altruism could emerge in tandem with hostility toward other groups if the combination of the two traits increased success in inter-group contests. Proponents of both hypotheses assume that cooperation is altruistic and that within-group conflict is antithetical to cooperation, implying that group selection for cooperation reduces within-group conflict. Yet within-group conflict need not be antithetical to cooperation. This essay uses a mathematical model to show that selection between groups can lead to greater within-group aggression if within-group aggression enhances the value of individually costly public goods contributions. This model may help to explain cross-cultural associations between warfare, socialization for aggression, aggressive sports, and interpersonal violence among humans. It may also apply to other forms of inter-group conflict among humans. Finally, the model suggests that group selection can lead to disharmony within groups, a caveat to the use of group selection models to inform social policy.', u'Normal mode analysis (NMA) methods are widely used to study dynamic aspects of protein structures. Two critical components of NMA methods are coarse-graining in the level of simplification used to represent protein structures and the choice of potential energy functional form. There is a trade-off between speed and accuracy in different choices. In one extreme one finds accurate but slow molecular-dynamics based methods with all-atom representations and detailed atom potentials. On the other extreme, fast elastic network model (ENM) methods with C\u03b1\uf02donly representations and simplified potentials that based on geometry alone, thus oblivious to protein sequence. Here we present ENCoM, an Elastic Network Contact Model that employs a potential energy function that includes a pairwise atom-type non-bonded interaction term and thus makes it possible to consider the effect of the specific nature of amino-acids on dynamics within the context of NMA. ENCoM is as fast as existing ENM methods and outperforms such methods in the generation of conformational ensembles. Here we introduce a new application for NMA methods with the use of ENCoM in the prediction of the effect of mutations on protein stability. While existing methods are based on machine learning or enthalpic considerations, the use of ENCoM, based on vibrational normal modes, is based on entropic considerations. This represents a novel area of application for NMA methods and a novel approach for the prediction of the effect of mutations. We compare ENCoM to a large number of methods in terms of accuracy and self-consistency. We show that the accuracy of ENCoM is comparable to that of the best existing methods. We show that existing methods are biased towards the prediction of destabilizing mutations and that ENCoM is less biased at predicting stabilizing mutations.', u'Recent advances in sequencing technology have helped unveil the unexpected complexity and diversity of small RNAs.  A critical step in small RNA library preparation for sequencing is the ligation of adapter sequences to both the 5\u2019 and 3\u2019 ends of small RNAs.  Two widely used protocols for small RNA library preparation, Illumina v1.5 and Illumina TruSeq, use different pairs of adapter sequences.  In this study, we compare the results of small RNA-sequencing between v1.5 and TruSeq and observe a striking differential bias.  Nearly 100 highly expressed microRNAs (miRNAs) are >5-fold differentially detected and 48 miRNAs are >10-fold differentially detected between the two methods of library preparation.  In fact, some miRNAs, such as miR-24-3p, are over 30-fold differentially detected.  The results are reproducible across different sequencing centers (NIH and UNC) and both major Illumina sequencing platforms, GAIIx and HiSeq.  While some level of bias in library preparation is not surprising, the apparent massive differential bias between these two widely used adapter sets is not well appreciated.  As increasingly more laboratories transition to the newer TruSeq-based library preparation for small RNAs, researchers should be aware of the extent to which the results may differ from previously published results using v1.5.', u'In functional connectivity analyses in BOLD (blood oxygenation level dependent) fMRI data, there is an ongoing debate on whether to correct global signals in fMRI time series data. Although the discussion has been ongoing in the fMRI community since the early days of fMRI data analyses, this subject has gained renewed attention in recent years due to the surging popularity of functional connectivity analyses, in particular graph theory-based network analyses. However, the impact of correcting (or not correcting) for global signals has not been systematically characterized in the context of network analyses. Thus, in this work, I examined the effect of global signal correction on an fMRI network analysis. In particular, voxel-based resting-state fMRI networks were constructed with and without global signal correction. The resulting functional connectivity networks were compared. Without global signal correction, the distributions of the correlation coefficients were positively biased. I also found that, without global signal correction, nodes along the interhemisphic fissure were highly connected whereas some nodes and subgraphs around white-matter tracts became disconnected from the rest of the network. These results from this study show differences between the networks with or without  global signal correction.', u'The final step of RNA crystallography involves the fitting of coordinates into electron density maps. The large number of backbone atoms in RNA presents a difficult and tedious challenge, particularly when experimental density is poor. The ERRASER-Phenix pipeline can improve an initial set of RNA coordinates automatically based on a physically realistic model of atomic-level RNA interactions. The pipeline couples diffraction-based refinement in Phenix with the Rosetta-based real-space refinement protocol ERRASER (Enumerative Real-Space Refinement ASsisted by Electron density under Rosetta). The combination of ERRASER and Phenix can improve the geometrical quality of RNA crystallographic models while maintaining or improving the fit to the diffraction data (as measured by Rfree). Here we present a complete tutorial for running ERRASER-Phenix through the Phenix GUI, from the command-line, and via an application in the Rosetta On-line Server that Includes Everyone (ROSIE).', u'Humans in many societies cooperate in economic experiments at much higher levels than would be expected if their goal was maximizing economic returns even when interactions are anonymous and one-shot. This is a puzzle because paying a cost to benefit another player in one-shot interactions has no direct benefit to the cooperator. This paper explores the logic of two competing evolutionary hypotheses to explain this behavior. The "norm psychology" hypothesis holds that a player\'s choice of strategy is heavily influenced by socially-learned cultural norms. Its premise is that over the course of human evolutionary history, cultural norms varied considerably across human societies and through a process of gene-culture co-evolution, humans evolved mechanisms to learn and adopt the norms of their particular society. The "evolutionary mismatch" hypothesis holds that pro-social preferences evolved genetically in our hunter-gatherer past where one-shot anonymous interactions were rare and these evolved "protocols" for cooperation are misapplied in modern, laboratory, conditions. I compare these hypotheses by adopting a well known model of the mismatch hypothesis. I show that the cooperation generated by the model is based on a flawed assumption - that the best thing to do is cooperate in a repeated game. I show that repeated games generate a great diversity of behavioral equilibria, in support of the norm psychology hypothesis\'s premise. When interaction is repeated, adopting local norms is a more evolutionarily successful strategy than automatically cooperating. If various groups are at different behavioral equilibria, then cultural selection between groups tends to select for cooperative behavior.', u'Genomics is increasingly being used to investigate disease outbreaks, but an important question remains unanswered -- how well do genomic data capture known transmission events, particularly for pathogens with long carriage periods or large within-host population sizes? Here we present a novel Bayesian approach to reconstruct densely-sampled outbreaks from genomic data whilst considering within-host diversity. We infer a time-labelled phylogeny using BEAST, then infer a transmission network via a Monte-Carlo Markov Chain. We find that under a realistic model of within-host evolution, reconstructions of simulated outbreaks contain substantial uncertainty even when genomic data reflect a high substitution rate. Reconstruction of a real-world tuberculosis outbreak displayed similar uncertainty, although the correct source case and several clusters of epidemiologically linked cases were identified. We conclude that genomics cannot wholly replace traditional epidemiology, but that Bayesian reconstructions derived from sequence data may form a useful starting point for a genomic epidemiology investigation.', u'Expansion of the neocortex is a hallmark of human evolution. However, it remains an open question what adaptive mechanisms facilitated its expansion. Here we show, using gyrencephaly index (GI) and other physiological and life-history data for 102 mammalian species, that gyrencephaly is an ancestral mammalian trait. We provide evidence that the evolution of a highly folded neocortex, as observed in humans, requires the traversal of a threshold of \u223c109 neurons, and that species above and below the threshold exhibit a bimodal distribution of physiological and life-history traits, establishing two phenotypic groups. We identify, using discrete mathematical models, proliferative divisions of progenitors in the basal compartment of the developing neocortex as evolutionarily necessary and sufficient for generating a fourteen-fold increase in daily prenatal neuron production and thus traversal of the neuronal threshold. Finally, using RNA-seq data from fetal human neocortical germinal zones, we show a genomic correlate to the neuron threshold in the differential conservation of long intergenic non-coding RNA.', u'Explaining the evolution of human life history characteristics remains an outstanding problem to evolutionary anthropologists. Progress is hindered by common misunderstandings of how selection works in age-structured populations. I review two important results of life history theory related to demography. First, different life history strategies evolve under density-independent and density-dependent population growth. Second, and more poorly appreciated, different kinds of density-dependence also select for different life history strategies; assuming zero population growth alone is insufficient to determine the optimal strategy. I show that these facts are more than methodological niceties by reanalyzing the model by Kaplan et al. (2000) and showing that the results depend strongly on the form of population regulation assumed. This analysis suggests that progress in human life history theory requires better understanding of the demography of our ancestors. I close with a discussion of empirical implications.', u'Motivated by data-rich experiments in transcriptional regulation and sensory neuroscience, we consider the following general problem in statistical inference. When exposed to a high-dimensional signal S, a system of interest computes a representation R of that signal which is then observed through a noisy measurement M. From a large number of signals and measurements, we wish to infer the "filter" that maps S to R. However, the standard method for solving such problems, likelihood-based inference, requires perfect a priori knowledge of the "noise function" mapping R to M. In practice such noise functions are usually known only approximately, if at all, and using an incorrect noise function will typically bias the inferred filter. Here we show that, in the large data limit, this need for a pre-characterized noise function can be circumvented by searching for filters that instead maximize the mutual information I[M;R] between observed measurements and predicted representations. Moreover, if the correct filter lies within the space of filters being explored, maximizing mutual information becomes equivalent to simultaneously maximizing every dependence measure that satisfies the Data Processing Inequality. It is important to note that maximizing mutual information will typically leave a small number of directions in parameter space unconstrained. We term these directions "diffeomorphic modes" and present an equation that allows these modes to be derived systematically. The presence of diffeomorphic modes reflects a fundamental and nontrivial substructure within parameter space, one that is obscured by standard likelihood-based inference.', u'An approach for generating high-resolution a priori maximum parsimony Y-chromosome (\x93chrY\x94) phylogenies based on SNP and small INDEL variant data from massively-parallel short-read (\x93next-generation\x94) sequencing data is described; the tree-generation methodology produces annotations localizing mutations to individual branches of the tree, along with indications of mutation placement uncertainty in cases for which "no-calls" (through lack of mapped reads or otherwise) at particular sites precludes precise phylogenetic placement of mutations. The approach leverages careful variant site filtering and a novel iterative reweighting procedure to generate high-accuracy trees while considering variants in regions of chrY that had previously been excluded from analyses based on short-read sequencing data. It is argued that the proposed approach is also superior to previous region-based filtering approaches in that it adapts to the quality of the underlying data and will automatically allow the scope of sites considered to expand as the underlying data quality improves (e.g. through longer read lengths). Key related issues, including calling of genotypes for the hemizygous chrY, reliability of variant results, read mismappings and "heterozygous" genotype calls, and the mutational stability of different variants are discussed and taken into account. The methodology is demonstrated through application to a dataset consisting of 1292 male samples from diverse populations and haplogroups, with the majority coming from low-coverage sequencing by the 1000 Genomes Project. Application of the tree-generation approach to these data produces a tree involving over 120,000 chrY variant sites (about 45,000 sites if \x93singletons\x94 are excluded). The utility of this approach in refining the Y-chromosome phylogenetic tree is demonstrated by examining results for several haplogroups. The results indicate a number of new branches on the Y-chromosome phylogenetic tree, many of them subdividing known branches, but also including some that inform the presence of additional levels along the \x93trunk\x94 of the tree. Finally, opportunities for extensions of this phylogenetic analysis approach to other types of genetic data are noted.', u'Horizontal gene transfer often leads to phenotypic changes within recipient organisms independent of any immediate evolutionary benefits. While secondary phenotypic effects of horizontal transfer (i.e. changes in growth rates) have been demonstrated and studied across a variety of systems using relatively small plasmid and phage, little is known about how size of the acquired region affects the magnitude or number of such costs. Here we describe an amazing breadth of phenotypic changes which occur after a large-scale horizontal transfer event (~1Mb megaplasmid) within Pseudomonas stutzeri including sensitization to various stresses as well as changes in bacterial behavior. These results highlight the power of horizontal transfer to shift pleiotropic relationships and cellular networks within bacterial genomes. They also provide an important context for how secondary effects of transfer can bias evolutionary trajectories and interactions between species. Lastly, these results and system provide a foundation to investigate evolutionary consequences in real time as newly acquired regions are ameliorated and integrated into new genomic contexts.', u'The debate over the ethnogenesis of Ashkenazi Jewry is longstanding, and has been hampered by a lack of Jewish historiographical work between the Biblical and the early Modern eras.  Most historians, as well as geneticists, situate them as the descendants of Israelite tribes whose presence in Europe is owed to deportations during the Roman conquest of Palestine, as well as migration from Babylonia, and eventual settlement along the Rhine.  By contrast, a few historians and other writers, most famously Arthur Koestler, have looked to migrations following the decline of the little-understood Medieval Jewish kingdom of Khazaria as the main source for Ashkenazi Jewry.  A recent study of genetic variation in southeastern European populations (Elhaik 2012) also proposed a Khazarian origin for Ashkenazi Jews, eliciting considerable criticism from other scholars investigating Jewish ancestry who favor a Near Eastern origin of Ashkenazi populations.  This paper re-examines the genetic data and analytical approaches used in these studies of Jewish ancestry, and situates them in the context of historical, linguistic, and archaeological evidence from the Caucasus, Europe and the Near East.  Based on this reanalysis, it appears not only that the Khazar Hypothesis per se is without serious merit, but also the veracity of the \x91Rhineland Hypothesis\x92 may also be questionable.', u'We describe libRoadRunner, a cross-platform, open-source,  high performance C++ library for running and analyzing SBML-compliant models. libRoadRunner was created primarily to achieve high performance, ease of use, portability and an extensible architecture. libRoadRunner includes a comprehensive API, Plugin support, Python scripting and additional functionality such as stoichiometric and metabolic control analysis.\n\nTo maximize collaboration, we made libRoadRunner open source and released it  under the Apache License, Version 2.0. To facilitate reuse, we have developed comprehensive Python bindings using SWIG (swig.org) and a C API. LibRoadRunner uses a number of statically linked third party libraries including: LLVM, libSBML, CVODE, NLEQ2, LAPACK and Poco. LibRoadRunner is supported on Windows, Mac OS X and Linux.\n\nOnline documentation, build instructions and git source repository are available at http://www.libroadrunner.org', u'Phytophthora spp. secrete vast arrays of effector molecules upon infection. A main class of intracellular effectors are the CRNs. They are translocated into the host cell and specifically localise to the nucleus where they are thought to perturb many different cellular processes. Although CRN proteins have been implicated as effectors, direct evidence of CRN mediated perturbation of host processes has been lacking. Here we show that a conserved CRN effector from P. capsici directly binds to tomato transcription factor SlTCP14-2. Previous studies in Arabidopsis thaliana have revealed that transcription factor TCP14 may be key immune signalling protein, targeted by effectors from divergent species. We extend on our understanding of TCP targeting by pathogen effectors by showing that the P. capsici effector CRN12_997 binds to SlTCP14-2 in plants. SlTCP14-2 over-expression enhances immunity to P. capsici, a phenotypic outcome that can be abolished by co-expression of CRN12_997. \nWe show that in the presence of CRN12_997, SlTCP14-2 association with nuclear chromatin is diminished, resulting in altered SlTCP14 subnuclear localisation. These results suggest that CRN12_997 prevents SlTCP14 from positively regulating defence against P. capsici.  Our work demonstrates a direct interaction between an oomycete CRN and a host target required for suppression of immunity. Collectively, our results hint at a virulence strategy that is conserved within the oomycetes and may allow engineering of resistance to a wide range of crop pathogens.', u'As a field, synthetic biology strives to engineer increasingly complex artificial systems in living cells. Active feedback in closed loop systems offers a dynamic and adaptive way to ensure constant relative activity independent of intrinsic and extrinsic noise. In this work, we de- sign, model, and implement a biomolecular concentration tracker, in which an output protein tracks the concentration of an input protein. Using synthetic scaffolds built from small, mod- ular protein-protein interaction domains to colocalize a two-component system, the circuit design relies on a single negative feedback loop to modulate the production of the output protein. Using a combination of modeling and experimental work, we show that the circuit achieves real-time protein concentration tracking in Escherichia coli and that steady state outputs can be tuned.', u'Human brain anatomy is strikingly diverse and highly inheritable: genetic factors may explain up to 80% of its variability. Prior studies have tried to detect genetic variants with a large effect on neuroanatomical diversity, but those currently identified account for <5% of the variance. Here we show, based on our analyses of neuroimaging and whole-genome genotyping data from 1,765 subjects, that up to 54% of this heritability is captured by large numbers of single nucleotide polymorphisms of small effect spread throughout the genome, especially within genes and close regulatory regions. The genetic bases of neuroanatomical diversity appear to be relatively independent of those of body size (height), but shared with those of verbal intelligence scores. The study of this genomic architecture should help us better understand brain evolution and disease.', u'Although climate change is expected to reorganize entire communities, this restructuring might reflect either direct ecological or evolutionary responses to abiotic conditions or indirect effects mediated through altered species interactions. We tested the hypothesis that changes in trophic interaction strength due to altered predator abundance have a cascading evolutionary response in a prey species (Daphnia pulex). Using a multiyear / multigenerational field experiment, we manipulated 12 open aquatic mesocosms to simulate hydrological conditions under climate change. After a three-year press manipulation, we collected Daphnia pulex from each pond and raised them in a common garden. Using quantitative genetic methods, we measured a series of quantitative traits every other day on 108 individuals for eight weeks. There was a significant decrease in tail spine length and population growth rate in groups exposed to the most extreme future climate scenarios. Structural equation models demonstrated that trait changes were best explained as an indirect effect of climate change treatments mediated through changes in predator abundance. Our results suggest climate change can trigger a cascade of ecological and evolutionary forces by reducing predator density, which in turn acts as a selective force leading to evolutionary change in prey morphology and life history.', u'The aim of the present study was to determine whether or not walking speed affects temporal perception. It was hypothesized that fast walking would reduce the perceived length of time while slow walking increase production estimates. 16 healthy subjects were included. After a first \xab calibration \xbb phase allowing the determination of different walking speeds, the subjects were instructed to demonstrate periods of time or \xab target times \xbb of 3s and 7s, by a walking movement. Then, subjects were asked to simulate walking by raising one foot after the other without advancing. Finally, a third condition, Motionless, involved producing the target times while standing without movement. The results of this study suggest that movement does influence the perception of time, causing an overestimation of time. In agreement with the results of Denner et al. (1963) the subjects produced times which were longer than the target times.', u'The increasing quantity and quality of functional genomic information motivate the assessment and integration of these data with association data, including data originating from genome-wide association studies (GWAS). We used previously described GWAS signals (\x93hits\x94) to train a regularized logistic model in order to predict SNP causality on the basis of a large multivariate functional dataset. We show how this model can be used to derive Bayes factors for integrating functional and association data into a combined Bayesian analysis. Functional characteristics were obtained from the Encyclopedia of DNA Elements (ENCODE), from published expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) and from other sources of genome-wide characteristics. We trained the model using all GWAS signals combined, and also using phenotype-specific signals for autoimmune, brain-related, cancer, and cardiovascular disorders. The non-phenotype specific and the autoimmune GWAS signals gave the most reliable results. We found SNPs with higher predicted values showed an enrichment of more significant p-values compared to all GWAS SNPs in three large GWAS studies of complex traits. We investigated the ability of our Bayesian method to improve the identification of true causal signals in psoriasis GWAS data and found that combining functional data with association data improves the ability to prioritise novel hits. We used the predictions from the penalized logistic regression model to calculate Bayes factors relating to functional characteristics and supply these online alongside resources to integrate these data with association data.', u'Key biological properties such as high genetic diversity and high evolutionary rate enhance the potential of certain RNA viruses to adapt and emerge. Identifying viruses with these properties in their natural hosts could dramatically improve disease forecasting and surveillance. Recently, we discovered two novel members of the viral family Arteriviridae: simian hemorrhagic fever virus (SHFV)-krc1 and SHFV-krc2, infecting a single wild red colobus (Procolobus rufomitratus tephrosceles) in Kibale National Park, Uganda. Nearly nothing is known about the biological properties of SHFVs in nature, although the SHFV type strain, SHFV-LVR, has caused devastating outbreaks of viral hemorrhagic fever in captive macaques. Here we detected SHFV-krc1 and SHFV-krc2 in 40% and 47% of 60 wild red colobus tested, respectively. We found viral loads in excess of 1x10^6-1x10^7 RNA copies per milliliter of blood plasma for each of these viruses. SHFV-krc1 and SHFV-krc2 also showed high genetic diversity at both the inter- and intra-host levels. Analyses of synonymous and non-synonymous nucleotide diversity across viral genomes revealed patterns suggestive of positive selection in SHFV open reading frames (ORF) 5 (SHFV-krc2 only) and 7 (SHFV-krc1 and SHFV-krc2). Thus, these viruses share several important properties with some of the most rapidly evolving, emergent RNA viruses.', u'The axon initial segment of each cerebellar Purkinje cell is ensheathed by basket cell axons in a structure called the pinceau, which is largely devoid of chemical synapses and gap junctions. These facts and ultrastructural similarities with the axon cap of the teleost Mauthner cell led to the conjecture that the pinceau mediates ephaptic (via the extracellular field) inhibition. Korn and Axelrad published a study in 1980 in which they reported confirmation of this conjecture. We have analysed their results and show that most are likely to be explained by an artefactual signal arising from the massive stimulation of parallel fibres they employed. We reproduce their experiments and confirm that all of their results are consistent with this artefact. Their data therefore provide no evidence regarding the operation of the pinceau.', u'Hemifacial microsomia (HFM) is the second most common facial anomaly after cleft lip and palate. The phenotype is highly variable and most cases are sporadic. Here, we investigated the disorder in a large pedigree with five affected individuals spanning eight meioses. We performed whole-exome sequencing and a genome-wide survey of segmental variations. Analysis of the exome sequencing results indicated the absence of a pathogenic coding point mutation. Inspection of segmental variations identified a 1.3Mb duplication of chromosome 14q22.3 in all affected individuals that was absent in more than 1000 chromosomes of ethnically matched controls. The duplication was absent in seven additional sporadic HFM cases, which is concordant with the known heterogeneity of the disorder. To find the critical gene in the duplicated region, we analyzed signatures of human craniofacial disease networks, mouse expression data, and predictions of dosage sensitivity. All of these approaches implicated OTX2 as the most likely causal gene. Moreover, OTX2 is a known oncogenic driver in medulloblastoma, a condition that was diagnosed in the proband during the course of our study. Our findings highlight dosage sensitivity of OTX2 in human craniofacial development and suggest a possible shared etiology between a subtype of hemifacial microsomia and medulloblastoma.', u'Restriction-site associated genomic markers are a powerful tool for investigating evolutionary questions at the population level, but are limited in their utility at deeper phylogenetic scales where fewer orthologous loci are typically recovered across disparate taxa. While this limitation stems in part from mutations to restriction recognition sites that disrupt data generation, an alternative source of data loss comes from the failure to  identify homology during bioinformatic analyses. Clustering methods that allow for lower similarity thresholds and the inclusion of indel variation will perform better at assembling RADseq loci at the phylogenetic scale. PyRAD is a pipeline to assemble de novo RADseq loci with the aim of optimizing coverage across phylogenetic data sets. It utilizes a wrapper around an alignment-clustering algorithm which allows for indel variation within and between samples, as well as for incomplete overlap among reads (e.g., paired-end). Here I compare PyRAD with the program Stacks in their performance analyzing a simulated RADseq data set that includes indel variation. Indels disrupt clustering of homologous loci in Stacks but not in PyRAD, such that the latter recovers more shared loci across disparate taxa. I show through re-analysis of an empirical RADseq data set that indels are a common feature of such data, even at shallow phylogenetic scales. PyRAD utilizes parallel processing as well as an optional hierarchical clustering method which allow it to rapidly assemble phylogenetic data sets with hundreds of sampled individuals.', u'Gene coexpression networks inferred by correlation from high throughput profiling such as microarray data represent a simple but effective technique for discovering and interpreting linear gene relationships.\nIn the last years several approach have been proposed to tackle the problem of deciding when the resulting correlation values are statistically significant.\nThis is mostly crucial when the number of samples is small, yielding a non negligible chance that even high correlation values are due to random effects.\nHere we introduce a novel hard thresholding solution based on the assumption that a coexpression network inferred by randomly generated data is expected to be empty.\nThe theoretical derivation of the new bound by geometrical methods is shown together with applications in onco- and neurogenomics.', u'Tools for estimating population structure from genetic data are now used in a wide variety of applications in population genetics. However, inferring population structure in large modern data sets imposes severe computational challenges. Here, we develop efficient algorithms for approximate inference of    the model underlying the STRUCTURE program using a variational Bayesian framework. Variational methods pose the problem of computing relevant posterior distributions as an optimization problem, allowing us to build on recent advances in optimization theory to develop fast inference tools. In addition, we propose useful heuristic scores to identify the number of populations represented in a dataset and a new hierarchical prior to detect weak population structure in the data. We test the variational algorithms on simulated data, and illustrate using genotype data from the CEPH-Human Genome Diversity Panel. The variational algorithms are almost two orders of magnitude faster than STRUCTURE and achieve accuracies comparable to those of ADMIXTURE. Furthermore, our results show that the heuristic scores for choosing model complexity provide a reasonable range of values for the number of populations represented in the data, with minimal bias towards detecting structure when it is very weak. Our algorithm, fastSTRUCTURE, is freely available online at http://pritchardlab.stanford.edu/structure.html.', u'The non-protein amino acid \u03b2-aminobutyric acid (BABA) could induce plant resistance to a broad spectrum of biotic and abiotic stresses. However, BABA-induced plant resistance to insects is less well-studied, especially its underlying mechanism. In this research, we applied BABA to wheat seedlings and tested its effects on Sitobion avenae. When applied as a soil drench, BABA significantly reduced weight of S. avenae, whereas foliar spray and seed treatment had no such effects. BABA-mediated suppression of S. avenae growth is dose dependent and could last at least for 7 days. The aminobutyric acid concentration in phloem sap of BABA-treated plants accumulated to high levels and increased with BABA concentrations applied. Moreover, after 10 days of treatment, the aminobutyric acid content in BABA-treated plants was still higher than that in control treatment. S. avenae could not discriminate artificial diet containing BABA from standard diet, indicating that BABA itself is not a deterrent to this aphid. Also S. avenae did not show preference for control plants or BABA-treated plants. Consistent with choice test results, S. avenae had similar feeding activities on control and BABA-treated plants, suggesting that BABA did not induce antifeedants in wheat seedlings. In addition, aminobutyric acid concentration in S. avenae feeding on BABA-treated plants was significantly higher than those feeding on control palnts. S. avenae growth rate was reduced on artificial diet containing BABA, indicating direct toxic effects of BABA to this aphid. These results suggest that BABA application could enhance wheat plant resistance to S. avenae and the mechanism is possibly due to direct toxicity of high BABA contents in plant phloem.', u'Pausing of DNA polymerase can indicate the presence of a DNA structure that differs from the canonical double-helix.  Here we detail a method to investigate how polymerase pausing in the Pacific Biosciences sequencer reads can be related to DNA structure.  The Pacific Biosciences sequencer uses optics to view a polymerase and its interaction with a single DNA molecule in real-time, offering a unique way to detect potential alternative DNA structures.  We have developed a new way to examine polymerase kinetics and relate it to the DNA sequence by using a wavelet transform of read information from the sequencer.  We use this method to examine how  polymerase kinetics are related to nucleotide base composition.  We then examine tandem repeat sequences known for their ability to form different DNA structures: (CGG)n and (CG)n repeats which can, respectively, form G-quadruplex DNA and Z-DNA.  We find pausing around the (CGG)n repeat that may indicate the presence of G-quadruplexes in some of the sequencer reads.  The (CG)n repeat does not appear to cause polymerase pausing, but its kinetics signature nevertheless suggests the possibility that alternative nucleotide conformations may sometimes be present.  We discuss the implications of using our method to discover DNA sequences capable of forming alternative structures.  The analyses presented here can be reproduced on any Pacific Biosciences kinetics data for any DNA pattern of interest using an R package that we have made publicly available.', u'We are entering the era of ubiquitous genetic information for research, clinical care, and personal curiosity. Sharing these datasets is vital for rapid progress in understanding the genetic basis of human diseases. However, one growing concern is the ability to protect the genetic privacy of the data originators. Here, we technically map threats to genetic privacy and discuss potential mitigation strategies for privacy-preserving dissemination of genetic data.', u'In this paper, models for understanding bird roosting will be considered for purposes of developing better Artificial Life models of complex behavior. Roosting involves multiple flocks of birds picking a single tree limb to rest on for the night, and can be considered an iterative, time-dependent process that unfolds over a 45-minute interval roughly corresponding to twilight. Two models will be used to better understand the main components of this behavior. The constrained dynamics model, which represents continuous random absorption on a one-dimensional lattice, will be used to characterize the dynamics of crowding in the tree structure over time. A second approach involves the relationships between complex networks and roosting behaviors, in particular the evolution of structured networks via rules of incorporation and interaction. Finally, the percolation model will be proposed as a way to bridge behaviors explained by the constrained dynamics and complex network models.', u'Colorectal tumors originate and develop within intestinal crypts. Even though some of the essential phenomena that characterize crypt structure and dynamics have been effectively described in the past, the relation between the differentiation process and the overall crypt homeostasis is still partially understood.\nWe here investigate this relation and other important biological phenomena by introducing a novel multiscale model that combines a morphological description of the crypt with a gene regulation model: the emergent dynamical behavior of the underlying gene regulatory network drives cell growth and differentiation processes, linking the two distinct spatio-temporal levels. \nThe model relies on a few a priori assumptions, yet accounting for several key processes related to crypt functioning, such as: dynamic gene activation patterns, stochastic differentiation, signaling pathways ruling cell adhesion properties, cell displacement, cell growth, mitosis, apoptosis and the presence of biological noise. \nWe show that this modeling approach captures the major dynamical phenomena that characterize the regular physiology of crypts, such as cell sorting, coordinate migration, dynamic turnover, stem cell niche maintenance and clonal expansion.  All in all, the model suggests that the process of stochastic differentiation might be sufficient to drive the crypt to homeostasis, under certain crypt configurations. Besides, our approach allows to make precise quantitative inferences that, when possible, were matched to the current biological knowledge and it permits to investigate the role of gene-level perturbations, with reference to cancer development. \nWe also remark the theoretical framework is general and may applied to different tissues, organs or organisms.', u'Leber\x92s Hereditary Optic Neuropathy (LHON) appears as an enigmatic condition; affecting only certain families and often causing a severe loss of vision seemingly at random amongst family members. The first breakthrough came in 1988 with the linking of the condition to a mutation in the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). Now it is known that about 90% of cases are linked to 3 mutations. In this paper the hypothesis is suggested that a LHON mutation decreases the function of the mitochondrial enzyme, Complex I, by 50% and this alone critically endangers the survival of cells - especially the fragile cells of the optic nerves. A computer model has been written to illustrate how the hypothesis can produce a natural history for the condition of LHON that has features similar to those observed in practice; thereby successfully explaining the behaviour of this enigmatic condition.', u'There is profound interest in knowing the degree to which China\x92s institutions are capable of protecting its natural forests and biodiversity in the face of economic and political change. China\x92s two most important forest protection policies are its National Forest Protection Program (NFPP) and its National-level Nature Reserves (NNRs). The NFPP was implemented in 17 provinces starting in the year 2000 in response to deforestation-caused flooding. We used MODIS data (MOD13Q1) to estimate forest cover and forest loss across mainland China, and we report that 1.765 million km2 or 18.7% of mainland China was covered in forest (12.3%, canopy cover > 70%) and woodland (6.4%, 40% \u2264 canopy cover < 70%) in 2000. By 2010, a total of 480,203 km2 of forest+woodland was lost, amounting to an annual deforestation rate of 2.7%. The forest-only loss was 127,473 km2, or 1.05% annually. The three most rapidly deforested provinces were outside NFPP jurisdiction, in the southeast. Within the NFPP provinces, the annual forest+woodland loss rate was 2.26%, and the forest-only rate was 0.62%. Because these loss rates are likely overestimates, China appears to have achieved, and even exceeded, its NFPP target of reducing deforestation to 1.1% annually in the target provinces. We also assemble the first-ever polygon dataset for China\x92s forested NNRs (n=237), which covered 74,030 km2 in 2000. Conventional unmatched and covariate-matching analyses both find that about two-thirds of China\x92s NNRs exhibit effectiveness in protecting forest cover and that within-NNR deforestation rates are higher in provinces that have higher overall deforestation.', u'Sexual dimorphisms, which are phenotypic differences between males and females, are driven by sexual selection [1, 2].  Interestingly, sexually selected traits show geographic variations within species despite strong directional selective pressures [3, 4].  However, genetic factors that regulate varied sexual differences remain unknown.  In this study, we show that polymorphisms in cytochrome P450 (CYP) 1B1, which encodes a xenobiotic-metabolising enzyme, are associated with local differences of sexual dimorphisms in the anal fin morphology of medaka fish (Oryzias latipes).  High and low activity CYP1B1 alleles increased and decreased differences in anal fin sizes, respectively.  Behavioural and phylogenetic analyses suggest maintenance of the high activity allele by sexual selection, whereas the low activity allele may have evolved by positive selection due to by-product effects of CYP1B1.  The present data can elucidate evolutionary mechanisms behind genetic variations in sexual dimorphism and indicate pleiotropic effects of xenobiotic enzymes.', u'In the recent paper by Kim et al. (Genome biology, 2013. 14(4): p. R36) the accuracy of TopHat2 was compared to other RNA-seq aligners. In this comment we re-examine most important analyses from this paper and identify several deficiencies that significantly diminished performance of some of the aligners, including incorrect choice of mapping parameters, unfair comparison metrics, and unrealistic simulated data. Using STAR (Dobin et al., Bioinformatics, 2013. 29(1): p. 15-21) as an exemplar, we demonstrate that correcting these deficiencies makes its accuracy equal or better than that of TopHat2. Furthermore, this exercise highlighted some serious issues with the TopHat2 algorithms, such as poor recall of alignments with a moderate (>3) number of mismatches, low sensitivity and high false discovery rate for splice junction detection, loss of precision for the realignment algorithm, and large number of false chimeric alignments.', u'The genomic data that can be collected from a single DNA molecule by the best chemical and optical methods (e.g., using technologies from OpGen, BioNanoGenomics, NABSys, PacBio, etc.) are badly corrupted by many poorly understood noise processes. Thus, single molecule technology derives its utility through powerful probabilistic modeling, which can provide precise lower and upper bounds on various experimental parameters to create the correct map or validate sequence assembly. As an example, this analysis shows how as the number of "imaged" single molecules (i.e., coverage) is increased in the optical mapping data, the probability of successful computation of the map jumps from 0 to 1 for fairly small number of molecules.', u'The effects and potential recovery of aquatic plant Lemna gibba exposed to a sulfonyl urea herbicide metsulfuron-methyl (MSM) for 120 days under rice cropping condition was investigated. The frond number was decreased by day 15 at the concentration 11 \xb5g/L and 100% inhibition on growth rate of Lemna was observed. Continuous decrease of frond number by day 50 at below the detectable level of residues exhibited symptoms \n(chlorosis) of MSM toxicity. Toxicity was assessed on the basis of toxicity index (TI) value, growth rate, yield and pigment contents (chlorophyll, carotene, total carotenoid and xanthophyll) of treated samples compared with untreated control. The observed value of 0.698 \xb5g/g chlorophyll a, 0.263 \xb5g/g chlorophyll b, 0.147 \xb5g/g carotene, 1.620 \xb5g/g total carotenoid and 1.473 \xb5g/g xanthophyll contents in treated samples was statistically significantly different from control value of 4.366 \xb5g/g chlorophyll a, 3.132 \xb5g/g chlorophyll b, 0.796 \xb5g/g carotene, 17.755 \xb5g/g total carotenoid and 16.937 \xb5g/g xanthophyll contents by day 50 samples. After prolonged exposure, growth rate, yield and pigment content for the treated samples recovered to control levels on day 120. The obtained data indicate the application of aquatic plant Lemna gibba as sensitive biomarker of water quality as well as the significance of selected biological parameters in the reliable assessment of toxic potential of MSM under rice cropping condition.', u'The canonical protein tyrosine phosphatase PTP1B has traditionally been considered to exclusively reside on the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Using confocal microscopy, we show that endogenous PTP1B actually exhibits a higher local concentration at the mitochondria in all mammalian cell lines that we tested. Fluorescently labeled chimeras containing full-length PTP1B or only its 35 amino acid tail anchor localized identically, demonstrating the complete dependence of PTP1B\x92s subcellular partitioning on its tail anchor. Correlative light and electron microscopy using GFP- driven photo-oxidation of DAB revealed that PTP1B\x92s tail anchor localizes it to the mitochondrial interior and to mitochondrial-associated membrane (MAM) sites along the ER. Heterologous expression of the tail anchor of PTP1B in the yeast S. cerevisiae surprisingly led to its exclusive localization to the ER/vacuole with no presence at the mitochondria. Studies with various yeast mutants of conserved membrane insertion pathways revealed a role for the GET/TRC40 pathway in ER insertion, but also emphasized the likely dominant role of spontaneous insertion. Further studies of modified tail isoforms in both yeast and mammalian cells revealed a remarkable sensitivity of subcellular partitioning to slight changes in transmembrane domain (TMD) length, C-terminal charge, and hydropathy. For example, addition of a single positive charge to the tail anchor was sufficient to completely shift the tail anchor to the mitochondria in mammalian cells and to largely shift it there in yeast cells, and a point mutation that increased TMD hydropathy was sufficient to localize the tail anchor exclusively to the ER in mammalian cells. Striking differences in the subcellular partitioning of a given tail anchor isoform in mammalian versus yeast cells most likely point to fundamental differences in the lipid composition of specific organelles (e.g. affecting membrane charge or thickness) in higher versus lower eukaryotes. Fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy (FLIM) detection of the F\xf6rster Resonance Energy Transfer (FRET)-based interaction of the catalytic domain of PTP1B with the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR/ErbB1) at the mitochondria revealed a strong interaction on the cytosolic face of the outer mitochondrial membrane (OMM), suggesting the presence of a significant pool of PTP1B there and a novel role for PTP1B in the regulation of mitochondrial ErbB1 activity. In summary, in addition to its well-established general localization along the ER, our results reveal that PTP1B specifically accumulates at MAM sites along the ER and localizes as well to the OMM and mitochondrial matrix. Further elucidation of PTP1B\x92s roles in these different locations (including the identification of its targets) will likely be critical for understanding its complex regulation of general cellular responses, cell proliferation, and diseased states.', u'Cotton (Gossypium hirsutum) fiber, an extremely elongated and thickened single cell of the seed epidermis, is the world\x92s most important natural and economical textile fiber. Unlike Arabidopsis leaf trichomes, fiber initials are randomly developed and frequently form in adjacent seed epidermal cells and follow no apparent pattern. Numerous publications suggested cotton fiber development shares a similar mechanism with Arabidopsis leaf trichome development. Here we show that H2O2 accumulation in cotton ovule epidermal cells by NBT staining ovules at different development stages between TM1 and N1n2, a lintless-fuzzless doubled mutant originated from TM1. In contrast, Arabidopsis and cotton leaf trichomes do not show H2O2 content. By adding DPI (H2O2 inhibitor) and SHAM (H2O2 activator) in vitro ovule cultures, we show fiber initiation directly involves with H2O2 accumulation. We propose that the directional accumulation of H2O2 in cotton ovule epidermal cell is the drive for fiber initiation, elongation.', u'Within the overlap of physics, chemistry and biology, complex matter becomes \x91more deeply\x92 understood when high level mathematics converts regularities of experimental data into scientific laws, theories, and models (Krakauer et al., 2011. The challenges and scope of theoretical biology. J. Theoret. Biol. 276: 269-276). The simplest kinds of complex biological matter are bacterial cells; they appear complex\x96from a physicochemical standpoint\x96because they are multicomponent, multiphase, biomacromolecularly crowded, and re emergent; the property of re-emergence differentiates biological matter from complex chemical and physical matter.\nBacterial cells cannot self-reassemble spontaneously from their biomolecules and biomacromolecules (via non-covalent molecular forces) without the action of external \x91drivers\x92; on Earth, such drivers have been diurnal (cycling) physicochemical gradients, i.e. temperature, water activity, etc. brought about by solar radiation striking the Earth\x92s rotating surface. About 3.5 billion years ago, these cycling gradients drove complex chemical \x91prebiotic soups\x92 toward progenotic living states from which extant bacteria evolved (Spitzer and Poolman, 2009; The role of biomacromolecular crowding, ionic strength and physicochemical gradients in the complexities of life\x92s emergence. Microbiol. Mol. Biol. Revs. 73:371-388). Thus there is historical non-equilibrium continuity between complex \x91dead\x92 chemical matter and complex living states of bacterial cells.  This historical continuity becomes accessible to present-day experimentation, when cycling physicochemical gradients act on \x91dead\x92 biomacromolecules obtained from (suitably) killed bacterial populations \x96 on a \x91biotic soup\x92 of chemicals (Harold, 2005, Molecules into cells: specifying spatial architecture. Microbiol. Mol. Biol. Rev. 69:544-564). The making of biotic soups and recovering living states from them is briefly discussed in terms of novel concepts and experimental possibilities.  \nIn principle, emergent living states contingently arise and evolve when cycling physicochemical gradients continuously act on complex chemical mass; once living states become dynamically stabilized, the inevitable process errors of \x91primitive\x92 cell cycles become the roots of Darwinian evolution.', u'Continuous measurements of sap flow have been widely used to measure water flux through tree stems and branches.  However, these measurements lack the resolution necessary for determining fine-scale, leaf-level responses to environmental variables.  We used the heat ratio method to measure sap flow rates through leaf petioles and leaflet petiolules of saplings of the tropical tree Tabebuia rosea (Bignoniaceae) to determine how leaf and leaflet sap flow responds to variation in light and vapor pressure deficit (VPD).  We found that in the morning sap flow rates to east-facing leaves increased 26 minutes before adjacent west-facing leaves.  Although leaves had higher integrated sap flow than their largest leaflet, this difference was not proportional to the difference in leaf area, which could be due to lower conduit area in petiolules than in petioles.  In contrast to measurements on main stems, integrated daily sap flow was negatively correlated with daily mean VPD.  Furthermore, leaves exhibited previously undescribed patterns of hysteresis in the sap flow-VPD and sap flow-PAR relationships.  When hysteresis in the sap flow-PAR relationship was clockwise, the sap flow-VPD relationship was also clockwise; however, when hysteresis in the sap flow-PAR relationship was counterclockwise, the sap flow-VPD relationship displayed an intersected loop.  These pattern differences highlight how substantially leaf-level processes may vary within a canopy and how leaf-level processes may not scale predictably to the stem level.', u'Telomeres comprise the distal ends of eukaryotic chromosomes, serve to maintain genomic integrity and are extended by the ribonucleoprotein telomerase. Recent evidence indicates that telomeres are transcribed to generate long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) and that these transcripts (TERRA) may inhibit telomerase activity. In this study we assessed telomerase activity and telomeric lncRNA expression in a mouse model of skeletal myogenesis. Using the C2C12 cell line we demonstrated decreased telomerase activity during differentiation into terminally-differentiated skeletal myotubes. Despite existing in a post-mitotic state, residual telomerase activity remained in C2C12 myotubes, indicating a role independent of telomere extension.  Telomeric transcripts were detected in both myoblasts and myotubes, with reduced expression during differentiation correlating with reduced telomerase expression. Our data indicate that in a mouse model of skeletal myogenesis TERRA expression does not reduce telomerase activity, suggesting that their relationship is more complex than originally perceived; the role of telomeric derived lncRNAs in relation to telomerase activity may be cell-type specific. These findings raise the possibility for novel non-telomerase regulatory function for TERRA-lncRNAs during skeletal myogenesis.', u"Molecular systems are uncertain: the variability of reaction parameters and the presence of unknown interactions can weaken the predictive capacity of solid mathematical models. However, strong conclusions on the admissible dynamic behaviors of a model can often be achieved without detailed knowledge of its specific parameters. In particular, starting with Thomas' conjectures, loop-based criteria have been largely used to characterize oscillatory and multistationary dynamic outcomes in systems with a sign definite Jacobian.\n\nWe build on the rich literature focused on the identification of potential oscillatory and multistationary behaviors based on parameter-free criteria.\nWe propose a classification for sign-definite non autocatalytic biological networks which summarize several existing results in the literature, adding new results when necessary.  We define candidate oscillators and multistationary systems based on their admissible  transitions to instability.\nWe introduce four categories: strong/weak candidate oscillatory/multistationary systems, which correspond to networks in which all/some of the existing feedback loops are negative/positive. We provide  necessary and sufficient conditions characterizing strong and  weak candidate oscillators and multistationary systems based on the exclusive or  simultaneous presence of positive and negative loops in their linearized dynamics. We also consider the case in which the overall system is the connection of several stable aggregate monotone components, providing conditions in terms of positive/negative loops in a suitable network with aggregate monotone systems as nodes.\n\n Most realistic examples of biological networks fall in the gray area of systems in which both positive and negative cycles are present: therefore, both oscillatory and bistable behavior are in principle possible. Native systems with a large number of components are often interconnections of monotone modules, where negative/positive loops among modules characterize oscillatory and bistable behaviors, in agreement with our results.\n Finally, we note that many canonical example circuits exhibiting oscillations or bistability fall in the categories of strong candidate oscillators/multistationary systems.", u'In a recent article entitled \x93On the immortality of television sets: "function" in the human genome according to the evolution-free gospel of ENCODE\x94, Graur et al. dismantle ENCODE\x92s evidence and conclusion that 80% of the human genome is functional. However, the article by Graur et al. contains assumptions and statements that are questionable. Primarily, the authors limit their evaluation of DNA\x92s biological functions to informational roles, sidestepping putative non-informational functions. Here, I bring forward an old hypothesis on the evolution of genome size and on the role of so called \x91junk DNA\x92 (jDNA), which might explain C-value enigma. According to this hypothesis, the jDNA functions as a defense mechanism against insertion mutagenesis by endogenous and exogenous inserting elements such as retroviruses, thereby protecting informational DNA sequences from inactivation or alteration of their expression. Notably, this model couples the mechanisms and the selective forces responsible for the origin of jDNA with its putative protective biological function, which represents a classic case of \x91fighting fire with fire.\x92 One of the key tenets of this theory is that in humans and many other species, jDNAs serves as a protective mechanism against insertional oncogenic transformation. As an adaptive defense mechanism, the amount of protective DNA varies from one species to another based on the rate of its origin, insertional mutagenesis activity, and evolutionary constraints on genome size.', u'Hedgehog proteins are lipid-modified secreted signaling molecules that regulate tissue development and homeostasis. Lipids contained in circulating lipoproteins repress the Hedgehog signaling pathway in the absence of Hedgehog ligand, but the identity of these lipids is unknown. Here, using biochemical fractionation and lipid mass spectrometry, we identify these inhibitory lipids as endocannabinoids. Endocannabinoids are present in lipoproteins of both flies and humans, and repress the pathway in both mammalian signaling assays and Drosophila wing imaginal discs. In Drosophila, endocannabinoids are required in vivo to keep the levels of Smoothened and full-length Cubitus interruptus (Ci155) low in the absence of Hedgehog. Furthermore, elevating their endogenous levels inhibits Hedgehog-dependent accumulation of Smoothened and Ci155. Interestingly, cannabis-derived phytocannabinoids are also potent pathway inhibitors in flies and mammals. These findings constitute a novel link between organismal metabolism and local Hedgehog signaling, and suggest previously unsuspected mechanisms for the broad physiological activities of cannabinoids.', u'Despite decades of research, thousands of studies and numerous advances, the etiologies of Alzheimer\x92s Disease (AD), Parkinson\x92s Disease (PD), Huntington\x92s Disease (HD), Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), Frontotemporal Lobar Degeneration (FTLD-U), Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease (CJD), Reactive Systemic Amyloidosis (RSA) and many other neurodegenerative and systemic amyloid diseases have not been defined, nor have the pathogenic mechanisms leading to cellular death and disease. Moreover, the biological functions of APP/amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2), tau, \u03b1-synuclein, huntingtin, TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43), prion protein (PrP), amyloid A (AA) and some of the other primary proteins implicated in amyloid diseases are not known. And, there are no successful preventive or therapeutic approaches. Based on a comprehensive analysis and new interpretation of the existing data in context of an evolutionary framework, it is proposed that: (i) A\u03b2, tau, \u03b1-synuclein, huntingtin, TDP-43, PrP and AA are members of the innate immune system, (ii) the isomeric conformational changes of these proteins and their assembly into various oligomers, plaques, and tangles are not protein misfolding events as defined for decades, nor are they prion-replication activities, but part of their normal, evolutionarily selected innate immune repertoire, and (iii) the immune reactions and activities associated with the function of these proteins in innate immunity lead to AD, PD, HD, ALS, CJD, RSA and other related diseases, which are innate immunity disorders.', u'In vertebrates, the interferon (IFN) response is the primary form of innate antiviral defense. Previously (2005), a partial cDNA which could encode an interferon-like protein (IntlP) is reported in shrimp, later Rosa et al. (2008) argue that this partial cDNA should encode a portion of insect mitochondrial ATP synthase (MAS) B-chain. Recently (2009), it is demonstrated IntlP also possess antibacterial activity beside antiviral activity reported before. Lacking of a consensus opinion to the question of whether this gene encodes IntlP or MAS, we try to provide more evidences to identify this gene exactly. Here we obtain the full length cDNAs of IntlP/ MAS in Litopenaeus vannamei, and perform the tissue distribution and induced expression analysis. Our results confirm that IntlP is coded by a mistaken ORF and the actual protein indeed is a L. vannamei mitochondrial ATP synthase (LvMAS) whose function is unknown in antiviral responses.', u'We are interested in finding the kinetic parameters of a chemical reaction.\nPrevious methods for finding these parameters rely on the dynamic behaviour of the system.\nThis means that the methods are time-sensitive and often rely on non-linear curve fitting.\n\nIn the same manner as previous techniques, we consider the concentrations of chemicals in a reaction.\nHowever, we investigate the static behaviour of the reaction at dynamic equilibrium, or steady state.\nHere too, the chemical concentrations depend on the kinetic parameters of the reaction.\nIn an open reaction, the static concentrations also depends on the rate of input of the source of reacting chemical.\nControlling this input rate slides the steady state along a curve in concentration space.\nThis curve is determined by the kinetic parameters.\nThe plane of this curve is sufficient to find the kinetic parameters.\n\nThe new method we propose uses only the steady state concentration values to determine the kinetic parameters of the reaction.\nThese values are constant once dynamic equilibrium is achieved, and so can be read accurately.\nReadings can be repeated readily to reduce error.\nThus this new technique is simple and could produce accurate kinetic parameter estimates.', u'Gene regulatory networks are commonly used for modeling biological processes and revealing underlying molecular mechanisms. The reconstruction of gene regulatory networks from observational data is a challenging task, especially, considering the large number of involved players (e.g. genes) and much fewer biological replicates available for analysis. Herein, we proposed a new statistical method of estimating the number of erroneous edges that strongly enhances the commonly used inference approaches. This method is based on special relationship between correlation and causality, and allows to identify and to remove approximately half of erroneous edges. Using the mathematical model of Bayesian networks and positive correlation inequalities we established a mathematical foundation for our method. Analyzing real biological datasets, we found a strong correlation between the results of our method and the commonly used false discovery rate (FDR) technique. Furthermore, the simulation analysis demonstrates that in large networks, our new method provides a more precise estimation of the proportion of erroneous links than FDR.', u'We propose a  negative feedback architecture that regulates activity of artificial genes, or "genelets", to meet their output downstream demand, achieving robustness with respect to uncertain open-loop output production rates. In particular, we consider the case where the outputs of two genelets interact to form a single assembled product. We show with analysis and experiments that negative autoregulation matches the production and demand of the outputs: the magnitude of the regulatory signal is proportional to the error between the circuit output concentration and its actual demand. This two-device system is experimentally implemented using in vitro transcriptional networks, where reactions are systematically designed by optimizing nucleic acid sequences with publicly available software packages. We build a predictive ordinary differential equation (ODE) model that captures the dynamics of the system, and can be used to numerically assess the scalability of this architecture to larger sets of interconnected genes. Finally, with numerical simulations we contrast our negative autoregulation scheme with a  cross-activation architecture, which is less scalable and results in slower response times.', u'Understanding complex mammalian biology depends crucially on our ability to define a precise map of all the transcripts encoded in a genome, and to measure their relative abundances. A promising assay depends on RNASeq approaches, which builds on next generation sequencing pipelines capable of interrogating cDNAs extracted from a cell. The underlying pipeline starts with base-calling, collect the sequence reads and interpret the raw-read in terms of transcripts that are grouped with respect to different splice-variant isoforms of a messenger RNA. We address a very basic problem involved in all of these pipeline, namely accurate Bayesian base-calling, which could combine the analog intensity data with suitable underlying priors on base-composition in the transcripts. In the context of sequencing genomic DNA, a powerful approach for base-calling has been developed in the TotalReCaller pipeline. For these purposes, it uses a suitable reference whole-genome sequence in a compressed self-indexed format to derive its priors. However, TotalReCaller faces many new challenges in the transcriptomic domain, especially since we still lack a fully annotated library of all possible transcripts, and hence a sufficiently good prior. There are many possible solutions, similar to the ones developed for TotalReCaller, in applications addressing de novo sequencing and assembly, where partial contigs or string-graphs could be used to boot-strap the Bayesian priors on base-composition. A similar approach would be applicable here too, partial assembly of transcripts can be used to characterize the splicing junctions or organize them in incom- patibility graphs and then used as priors for TotalReCaller. The key algorithmic techniques for this purpose have been addressed in a forthcoming paper on Stringomics. Here, we address a related but fundamental problem, by assuming that we only have a reference genome, with certain intervals marked as candidate regions for ORF (Open Reading Frames), but not necessarily complete annotations regarding the 5\x92 or 3\x92 termini of a gene or its exon-intron structure. The algorithms we describe find the most accurate base-calls of a cDNA with the best possible segmentation, all mapped to the genome appropriately.', u"Molecular traits, such as gene expression levels or protein binding affinities, are increasingly accessible to quantitative measurement by modern high-throughput techniques. Such traits measure molecular functions and, from an evolutionary point of view, are important as targets of natural selection. We review recent developments in evolutionary theory and experiments that are expected to become building blocks of a quantitative genetics of molecular traits. We focus on universal evolutionary characteristics: these are largely independent of a trait's genetic basis, which is often at least partially unknown. We show that universal measurements can be used to infer selection on a quantitative trait, which determines its evolutionary mode of conservation or adaptation. Furthermore, universality is closely linked to predictability of trait evolution across lineages. We argue that universal trait statistics extends over a range of cellular scales and opens new avenues of quantitative evolutionary systems biology.", u'In this study, we retraced the origin of the reported avian influenza A H6N1 virus infecting a 20-year-old woman in Taiwan. As we know, this is the first reported case of human infection by the H6N1 virus, because this subtype virus usually circulates in birds and poultry. Therefore it is crucial to know how this virus attained the ability to infect humans. Using phylogenetic analysis, we found that this virus was derived from reassortments of multiple lineages of H6N1 viruses and H5N2 viruses. The results deepen our understanding of how the new human-infecting virus originated and based on these we discussed possible explanations for the H6N1 infection of humans. Our results, together with recent studies of H7N9 viruses which result in severe disorders, suggest that reassortments among avian-type viruses are quite often, which may sometimes result in fatal infections in humans. Thus a close watch on the circulation of avian influenza viruses is pretty necessary.', u'The cholesterol biosynthesis pathway has recently been shown to play an important role in the innate immune response to viral infection with host protection occurring through a coordinate down regulation of the enzymes catalyzing each metabolic step. In contrast, statin based drugs, which form the principle pharmaceutical agents for decreasing the activity of this pathway, target a single enzyme. Here, we build an ordinary differential equation model of the cholesterol biosynthesis pathway in order to investigate how the two regulatory strategies impact upon the behaviour of the pathway. We employ a modest set of assumptions: that the pathway operates away from saturation, that each metabolite is involved in multiple cellular interactions and that mRNA levels reflect enzyme concentrations. Using data taken from primary bone marrow derived macrophage cells infected with murine cytomegalovirus infection or treated with IFN\u03b3, we show that, under these assumptions, coordinate down regulation of enzyme activity imparts a graduated reduction in flux along the pathway. In contrast, modelling a statin-like treatment that achieves the same degree of down-regulation in cholesterol production, we show that this delivers a step change in flux along the pathway. The graduated reduction mediated by physiological coordinate regulation of multiple enzymes supports a mechanism that allows a greater level of specificity, altering cholesterol levels with less impact upon interactions branching from the pathway, than pharmacological step reductions. We argue that coordinate regulation is likely to show a long-term evolutionary advantage over single enzyme regulation. Finally, the results from our models have implications for future pharmaceutical therapies intended to target cholesterol production with greater specificity and fewer off target effects, suggesting that this can be achieved by mimicking the coordinated down-regulation observed in immunological responses.', u'There are significant differences in the biology of males and females, ranging from biochemical pathways to behavioural responses, which are relevant to modern medicine. Broad-sense heritability estimates differ between the sexes for many common medical disorders, indicating that genetic architecture can be sex-dependent. Recent genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have successfully identified sex-specific and sex-biased effects, where in addition to sex-specific effects on gene expression, twenty-two medical traits have sex-specific or sex-biased loci. Sex-specific genetic architecture of complex traits is also extensively documented in model organisms using genome-wide linkage or association mapping, and in gene disruption studies. The evolutionary origins of sex-specific genetic architecture and sexual dimorphism lie in the fact that males and females share most of their genetic variation yet experience different selection pressures. At the extreme is sexual antagonism, where selection on an allele acts in opposite directions between the sexes. Sexual antagonism has been repeatedly identified via a number of experimental methods in a range of different taxa. Although the molecular basis remains to be identified, mathematical models predict the maintenance of deleterious variants that experience selection in a sex-dependent manner. There are multiple mechanisms by which sexual antagonism and alleles under sex-differential selection could contribute toward the genetics of common, complex disorders. The evidence we review clearly indicates that further research into sex-dependent selection and the sex-specific genetic architecture of diseases would be rewarding. This would be aided by studies of laboratory and wild animal populations, and by modelling sex-specific effects in genome-wide association data with joint, gene-by-sex interaction tests. We predict that even sexually monomorphic diseases may harbour cryptic sex-specific genetic architecture. Furthermore, empirical evidence suggests that investigating sex-dependent epistasis may be especially rewarding. Finally, the prevalent nature of sex-specific genetic architecture in disease offers scope for the development of more effective, sex-specific therapies.', u'Sampling is a fundamental tool in ecology and critical for biodiversity measurement. However, basic principles of biodiversity sampling have been overlooked for many years. In this paper, I proposed and explored five principles of sampling for a specific area and biodiversity study. The first principle of sampling, species increasing with area, is that the number of species increases with the area. The second principle of sampling, individuals increasing with area, is that the number of individuals increases with the area. The third principle of sampling, sum of species number, is that the sum of species number in one area and species number in another area is no less than the total species number in the two areas. The fourth principle of sampling, individual complement, is that the sum of the mathematical expectation of individual number of one or several species in the area a and that of the same one or several species in the area A-a is the total individual number N of the same one or several species in the total area A. The fifth principle of sampling, species-area theory, is that the sum of the mathematical expectation of number of species in the area a and that of number of species lost if area A-a is cleared is the total species number M in the total area A.', u'Dysregulated microRNA (miRNA) expression is a well-established feature of human cancer. However, the role of specific miRNAs in determining cancer outcomes remains unclear. Using Level 3 expression data from the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), we identified 61 miRNAs that are associated with overall survival in 469 ovarian cancers profiled by microarray (p<0.01). We also identified 12 miRNAs that are associated with survival when miRNAs were profiled in the same specimens using Next Generation Sequencing (miRNA-Seq) (p<0.01). Surprisingly, only 1 miRNA transcript is associated with ovarian cancer survival in both datasets. Our analyses indicate that this discrepancy is due to the fact that miRNA levels reported by the two platforms correlate poorly, even after correcting for potential issues inherent to signal detection algorithms. Further investigation is warranted.', u'Hybrid zones can be valuable tools for studying evolution and identifying genomic regions responsible for adaptive divergence and underlying phenotypic variation. Hybrid zones between subspecies of Heliconius butterflies can be very narrow and are maintained by strong selection acting on colour pattern. The co-mimetic species H. erato and H. melpomene have parallel hybrid zones where both species undergo a change from one colour pattern form to another. We use restriction associated DNA sequencing to obtain several thousand genome wide sequence markers and use these to analyse patterns of population divergence across two pairs of parallel hybrid zones in Peru and Ecuador. We compare two approaches for analysis of this type of data; alignment to a reference genome and de novo assembly, and find that alignment gives the best results for species both closely (H. melpomene) and distantly (H. erato, ~15% divergent) related to the reference sequence. Our results confirm that the colour pattern controlling loci account for the majority of divergent regions across the genome, but we also detect other divergent regions apparently unlinked to colour pattern differences. We also use association mapping to identify previously unmapped colour pattern loci, in particular the Ro locus. Finally, we identify within our sample a new cryptic population of H. timareta in Ecuador, which occurs at relatively low altitude and is mimetic with H. melpomene malleti.', u'BACKGROUND: The availability of open access genomic data is essential for the personal genomics field. Public genomic data allow comparative analyses, testing of new tools and genotype-phenotype association studies. Personal genomics data of unrelated individuals are available in the public domain, notably the Personal Genome Project; however, to date genomics family data and metadata are severely lacking, mainly due to cost, privacy concerns or restricted access to Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) technology. Family data have a lot to offer as they allow the study of heritability, something which is impossible to do just by using unrelated individuals. \nFINDINGS: A whole family from Southern Spain decided to genotype, sequence and analyse their personal genomes making them publicly available under a Creative Commons 0 license (CC0; commonly denominated as public domain). These data include a) five 23andMe SNP chip genotype bed files, b) four raw exomes with their assorted bam files and VCF files, c) a metagenomic raw sequencing data file and d) derived data of likely phenotypes using SNPedia-derived tools. \nCONCLUSIONS: To our knowledge this is the first CC0 released set of genomic, phenotypic and metagenomic data for a whole family. This dataset is also unique in that it was obtained through direct-to-consumer genetic tests. Hence any ordinary citizen with enough budget and samples should be able to reproduce this experiment. We envisage this dataset to be a useful resource for a variety of applications in the personal genomics field as a) negative control data for trait association discovery, b) testing data for development of new software and c) sample data for heritability studies. We encourage prospective users to share with us derived results so that they can be added to our existing collection.', u'This is an attempt to account for the insolubility and/or aggregation of prions and plaques in terms of a model of water consisting of an equilibrium between high\ndensity and low density microdomains. Hydrophobic molecules, including proteins,\naccumulate selectively into stable populations, enriched in high density water, at\ncharged sites on biopolymers. In enriched high density water, proteins are probably\npartially unfolded and may precipitate out when released. All extracellular matrices\ncontain such charged polymers. Prions, which have been shown to accumulate in soils\nand clays containing silicates and aluminates also probably accumulate in extracellular matrices.\n\nRelease of proteins follows hydrolysis of the charged groups by highly reactive high\ndensity water. This is normally a slow process but is greatly accelerated by urea.\nPlaques may form with age and disease because of accumulation of urea and, perhaps,\nglucose in the blood. This favours precipitation of proteins emerging from matrices,rather than refolding and solution. Dialysis should, therefore, interfere with plaqueformation and impede the development of some age-related diseases.', u'Despite the common assumption that promiscuity should in general be favored in males, but not in females, to date there is no consensus on the general impact of multiple mating on female fitness. Notably, very little is known about the genetic and physiological features underlying the female response to sexual selection pressures. By combining an experimental evolution approach with genomic techniques, we investigated the effects of single and multiple matings on female fecundity and gene expression. We experimentally manipulated the mating system in replicate populations of Drosophila melanogaster by removing sexual selection, with the aim of testing differences in short term post-mating effects of females evolved under different mating strategies. We show that monogamous females suffer decreased fecundity, a decrease that was partially recovered by experimentally reversing the selection pressure back to the ancestral promiscuous state. The post-mating gene expression profiles of monogamous females differ significantly from promiscuous females, involving 9% of the genes tested. These transcripts are active in several tissues, mainly ovaries, neural tissues and midgut, and are involved in metabolic processes, reproduction and signaling pathways. Our results demonstrate how the female post-mating response can evolve under different mating systems, and provide novel insights into the genes targeted by sexual selection in females, by identifying a list of candidate genes responsible for the decrease in female fecundity in the absence of promiscuity.', u'Mutational robustness is the extent to which an organism has evolved to withstand the effects of deleterious mutations.  We explored the extent of mutational robustness in the budding yeast by genome wide dosage suppressor analysis of 53 conditional lethal mutations in cell division cycle and RNA synthesis related genes, revealing 660 suppressor interactions of which 642 are novel.  This collection has several distinctive features, including high co-occurrence of mutant-suppressor pairs within protein modules, highly correlated functions between the pairs, and higher diversity of functions among the co-suppressors than previously observed.  Dosage suppression of essential genes encoding RNA polymerase subunits and chromosome cohesion complex suggest a surprising degree of functional plasticity of macromolecular complexes and the existence of degenerate pathways for circumventing potentially lethal mutations.  The utility of dosage-suppressor networks is illustrated by the discovery of a novel connection between chromosome cohesion-condensation pathways involving homologous recombination, and Huntington\x92s disease.', u'Temperature affects both the timing and outcome of animal development, but the detailed effects of temperature on the progress of early development have been poorly characterized. To determine the impact of temperature on the order and timing of events during Drosophila melanogaster embryogenesis, we used time-lapse imaging to track the progress of embryos from shortly after egg laying through hatching at seven precisely maintained temperatures between 17.5\xb0C and 32.5\xb0C. We employed a combination of automated and manual annotation to determine when 36 milestones occurred in each embryo. D. melanogaster embryogenesis takes 33 hours at 17.5\xb0C, and accelerates with increasing temperature to a low of 16 hours at 27.5\xb0C, above which embryogenesis slows slightly. Remarkably, while the total time of embryogenesis varies over two fold, the relative timing of events from cellularization through hatching is constant across temperatures. To further explore the relationship between temperature and embryogenesis, we expanded our analysis to cover ten additional Drosophila species of varying climatic origins. Six of these species, like D. melanogaster, are of tropical origin, and embryogenesis time at different temperatures was similar for them all. D. mojavensis, a sub-tropical fly, develops slower than the tropical species at lower temperatures, while D. virilis, a temperate fly, exhibits slower development at all temperatures. The alpine sister species D. persimilis and D. pseudoobscura develop as rapidly as tropical flies at cooler temperatures, but exhibit diminished acceleration above 22.5\xb0C and have drastically slowed development by 30\xb0C. Despite ranging from 13 hours for D. erecta at 30\xb0C to 46 hours for D. virilis at 17.5\xb0C, the relative timing of events from cellularization through hatching is constant across all of the species and temperatures examined here, suggesting the existence of a previously unrecognized timer controlling the progress of embryogenesis that has been tuned by natural selection in response to the thermal environment in which each species lives.', u"We describe the development and application of a Bayesian statistical model for the prior probability of phenotype-genotype association\nthat incorporates data from past association studies and publicly available functional annotation data regarding the susceptibility\nvariants under study. The model takes the form of a binary regression of association status on a set of annotation variables whose coefficients were estimated through an analysis of associated SNPs housed in the GWAS Catalog (GC).  The set of functional predictors we examined includes measures that have been demonstrated to correlate with the association status of SNPs in the GC and some whose utility in this regard is speculative: summaries of the UCSC Human Genome\nBrowser ENCODE super-track data, dbSNP function class, sequence conservation summaries, proximity to genomic variants included in the\nDatabase of Genomic Variants (DGV) and known regulatory elements included in the Open Regulatory Annotation database (ORegAnno),\nPolyPhen-2 probabilities and RegulomeDB categories.  Because we expected that only a fraction of the annotation variables would\ncontribute to predicting association, we employed a penalized likelihood method to reduce the impact of non-informative predictors\nand evaluated the model's ability to predict GC SNPs not used to construct the model.  We show that the functional data alone are predictive of a SNP's presence in the GC. Further, using data from a genome-wide study of ovarian cancer, we demonstrate that their use as prior data when testing for association is practical at the\ngenome-wide scale and improves power to detect associations.", u'Many DNA sequence variants influence phenotypes by altering gene expression. Our understanding of these variants is limited by sample sizes of current studies and by measurements of mRNA rather than protein abundance. We developed a powerful method for identifying genetic loci that influence protein expression in very large populations of the yeast Saccharomyes cerevisiae. The method measures single-cell protein abundance through the use of green-fluorescent-protein tags. We applied this method to 160 genes and detected many more loci per gene than previous studies. We also observed closer correspondence between loci that influence protein abundance and loci that influence mRNA abundance of a given gene. Most loci cluster at hotspot locations that influence multiple proteins\x97in some cases, more than half of those examined. The variants that underlie these hotspots have profound effects on the gene regulatory network and provide insights into genetic variation in cell physiology between yeast strains.', u"Background: Research into mechanisms of hematogenous metastasis has largely become genetic in focus, attempting to understand the molecular basis of `seed-soil' relationships. However, preceding this biological mechanism is the physical process of dissemination of circulating tumour cells (CTCs) in the circulatory network. We utilize a novel, network perspective of hematogenous metastasis and a large dataset on metastatic patterns to shed new light on this process.\n%a fundamental gap in our knowledge of this process.\n\nExperimental Design: The metastatic efficiency index (MEI), previously suggested by Weiss, quantifies the process of hematogenous metastasis by taking the ratio of metastatic incidence for a given primary-target organ pair and the relative blood flow between the two sites. In this paper we extend the methodology by taking into account the reduction in CTC number that occurs in capillary beds and a novel network model of CTC flow.\n\nResults: By applying this model to a dataset of metastatic incidence, we show that the MEI depends strongly on the assumptions of micrometastatic lesions in the lung and liver. Utilizing this framework we can represent different configurations of metastatic disease and offer a rational method for identifying patients with oligometastatic disease for inclusion in future trials.\n\nConclusions:We show that our understanding of the dynamics of CTC flow is significantly lacking, and that this specifically precludes our ability to predict metastatic patterns in individual patients.  Our formalism suggests an opportunity to go a step further in metastatic disease characterization by including the distribution of CTCs at staging, offering a rational method of trial design for oligometastatic disease.", u'Since the discovery of tumour initiating cells (TICs) in solid tumours, studies focussing on their role in cancer initiation and progression have abounded.  The biological interrogation of these cells continues to yield volumes of information on their pro-tumourigenic behaviour, but actionable generalised conclusions have been scarce. Further, new information suggesting a dependence of tumour composition and growth on the microenvironment has yet to be studied theoretically. To address this point, we created a hybrid, discrete/continuous computational cellular automaton model of a generalised stem-cell driven tissue with a simple microenvironment.  Using the model we explored the phenotypic traits inherent to the tumour initiating cells and the effect of the microenvironment on tissue growth. We identify the regions in phenotype parameter space where TICs are able to cause a disruption in homeostasis, leading to tissue overgrowth and tumour maintenance. As our parameters and model are non-specific, they could apply to any tissue TIC and do not assume specific genetic mutations.  Targeting these phenotypic traits could represent a generalizable therapeutic strategy across cancer types.  Further, we find that the microenvironmental variable does not strongly effect the outcomes, suggesting a need for direct feedback from the microenvironment onto stem-cell behaviour in future modelling endeavours.', u'Incoherent feedforward loops represent important biomolecular circuit elements capable of a rich set of dynamic behavior including adaptation and pulsed responses. Temperature can modulate some of these properties through its effect on the underlying reaction rate parameters. It is generally unclear how to design such a circuit where the properties are robust to variations in temperature. Here, we address this issue using a combination of tools from control and dynamical systems theory as well as preliminary experimental measurements towards such a design. We formalize temperature as an uncertainty acting on system dynamics, exploring both structured and unstructured uncertainty representations. Next, we analyze a standard incoherent feedforward loop circuit, noting mechanisms that intrinsically confer temperature robustness to some of its properties. Further, we explore different negative feedback configurations that can enhance the robustness to temperature. Finally, we find that the response of an incoherent feedforward loop circuit in cells can change with temperature. These results present groundwork for the design of a temperature-robust incoherent feedforward loop circuit.', u'Mimulus guttatus and M. nasutus are an evolutionary and ecological model sister species pair differentiated by ecology, mating system, and partial reproductive isolation. Despite extensive research on this system, the history of divergence and differentiation in this sister pair is unclear. We present and analyze a novel population genomic data set which shows that M. nasutus "budded" off of a central Californian M. guttatus population within the last 200 to 500 thousand years. In this time, the M. nasutus genome has accrued numerous genomic signatures of the transition to predominant selfing. Despite clear biological differentiation, we document ongoing, bidirectional introgression. We observe a negative relationship between the recombination rate and divergence between M. nasutus and sympatric M. guttatus samples, suggesting that selection acts against M. nasutus ancestry in M. guttatus.']