[u'Alternative Growth Behavior of Mycobacterium Avium Subspecies and Staphylococci with Implications for Clinical Microbiology and Blood Culture', ['Peilin Zhang', 'Lawrence M Minardi', 'J. Todd Kuenstner', 'Steve M Zekan'], u'April 16, 2016.', u'Rapid culture of Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis (MAP) from patients remains a challenge.  During the process of developing a rapid culture method for MAP, we found that there is an alternative growth behavior present in MAP, MAH (Mycobacterium avium subspecies hominissuis) and other bacteria such as Staphylococcus aureus, and Staphylococcus pseudintermedius.  The bacterial DNA, RNA and proteins are present in the supernatants of the liquid culture media after routine microcentrifugation. When cultured in the solid media plate, there are a limited number of colonies developed for MAP and MAH disproportionate to the growth.  We believe there is an alternative growth behavior for MAP, MAH and other bacteria similar to phenoptosis.  Based on the alternative bacterial growth behavior, we tested 62 blood culture specimens that have been reported negative by routine automated blood culture method after 5 days of incubation. We used alternative culture media and molecular diagnostic techniques to test these negative culture bottles, and we found a large percentage of bacterial growth by alternative culture media (32%) and by molecular PCR amplification using 16s rDNA primer set and DNA sequencing (69%).  The sensitivity of detection by the molecular PCR/sequencing method is significantly higher than by routine automated blood culture.  Given the challenge of early diagnosis of sepsis in the hospital setting, it is necessary to develop more sensitive and faster diagnostic tools to guide clinical practice and improve the outcome of sepsis management.', u'/content/early/2016/04/16/049031', [u'Microbiology'], [u'PZM Diagnostics, LLC']]
[u'Lateral genetic transfers between eukaryotes and bacteriophages', ['Sarah R Bordenstein', 'Seth R Bordenstein'], u'April 16, 2016.', u'Viruses are trifurcated into eukaryotic, archaeal and bacterial categories. This domain-specific ecology underscores why eukaryotic genes are typically co-opted by eukaryotic viruses and bacterial genes are commonly found in bacteriophages. However, the presence of bacteriophages in symbiotic bacteria that obligately reside in eukaryotes may promote eukayotic DNA transfers to bacteriophages. By sequencing full genomes from purified bacteriophage WO particles of Wolbachia, we discover a novel eukaryotic association module with various animal proteins domains, such as the black widow latrotoxin-CTD, that are uninterrupted in intact bacteriophage genomes, enriched with eukaryotic protease cleavage sites, and combined with additional domains to forge some of the largest bacteriophage genes (up to 14,256 bp). These various protein domain families are central to eukaryotic functions and have never before been reported in packaged bacteriophages, and their phylogeny, distribution and sequence diversity implies lateral transfer from animal to bacteriophage genomes. We suggest that the evolution of these eukaryotic protein domains in bacteriophage WO parallels the evolution of eukaryotic genes in canonical eukaryotic viruses, namely those commandeered for viral life cycle adaptations. Analogous selective pressures and evolutionary outcomes may occur in bacteriophage WO as a result of its "two-fold cell challenge" to persist in and traverse cells of obligate intracellular bacteria that strictly reside in animal cells.  Finally, the full WO genome sequences and identification of attachment sites will advance eventual genetic manipulation of Wolbachia for disease control strategies.', u'/content/early/2016/04/16/049049', [u'Genomics'], [u'Vanderbilt University']]
[u'Wild-type Splicing Factor U2AF1 inhibits splicing associated with a recurrent U2AF1 mutant in human lung cancers and is required for cell survival', ['Dennis Liang Fei', 'Hayley Motowski', 'Rakesh Chatrikhi', 'Sameer Prasad', 'Jovian Yu', 'Shaojian Gao', 'Clara Kielkopf', 'Robert K Bradley', 'Harold Varmus'], u'April 16, 2016.', u"The splicing factor gene, U2AF1, is recurrently mutated in a variety of human cancers, including lung adenocarcinomas. The most frequent U2AF1 mutant, U2AF1 p.Ser34Phe (S34F), induces specific changes in splicing that we collectively refer to as 'S34F-associated splicing', but it is unclear how these splicing changes are regulated. Moreover, while a wild-type U2AF1 allele is retained in all cancers expressing a U2AF1 mutation, the functional significance of the retained wild-type allele is unknown. \n    Our analysis of published data on human lung adenocarcinomas indicates that lung adenocarcinomas carrying a U2AF1 S34F allele exhibit a wide range of mutant to wild-type U2AF1 (S34F:WT) mRNA ratios, which can be partially attributed to copy number variation at the U2AF1 locus. S34F:WT mRNA ratios, rather than absolute levels of U2AF1 S34F or total U2AF1 mRNA, correlate positively with the magnitude of S34F-associated splicing in lung adenocarcinoma transcriptomes. To examine the effect of S34F:WT ratios on S34F-associated splicing directly, we modified a human bronchial epithelial cell line so that U2AF1 S34F is expressed at one of the two endogenous U2AF1 loci and the S34F:WT mRNA ratio approximates one. By altering the levels of mutant or wild-type U2AF1 in this engineered cell line, we show that the degree of S34F-associated splicing is proportional to the ratio of S34F:WT gene products and not to absolute levels of either the mutant or wild-type factor. Further, we show that in nearly all cases, S34F-associated splicing alterations are largely explained by the different RNA binding affinities of recombinant protein complexes containing wild-type or mutant U2AF1. Together, these observations suggest that wild-type U2AF1 is a negative regulator of S34F-associated splicing, at least in part through differential binding to 3' splice sites. Finally, we show that the U2AF1 S34F allele does not behave like some oncogenes: the mutated gene does not induce cell transformation, and lung adenocarcinoma cell lines are not dependent on it for growth in vitro or in vivo. Wild-type U2AF1, however, is absolutely required for cell survival, regardless of whether the cells carry the U2AF1 S34F allele. \n    We conclude that wild-type U2AF1 has two important functions in U2AF1 S34F-expressing lung cancers: it controls the magnitude of S34F-associated splicing, and it is essential for cell survival.", u'/content/early/2016/04/16/048553', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Weill Cornell Medicine;', u'National Human Genome Research Institute;', u'University of Rochester Medical Center;', u'National Cancer Institute;', u'FHCRC']]
[u'Network-based Computational Drug Combination Prediction', ['Fuhai Li', 'Lei Huang', 'Jianting Sheng', 'Stephen TC Wong'], u'April 16, 2016.', u'Cancers are complex diseases that are regulated by multiple signaling pathways. Patients often acquire resistance to single drug treatment. Use of drug combinations that target multiple parallel pathways is a promising strategy to reduce the drug resistance. Pharmacogenomics big data are being generated to uncover complex signaling mechanisms of cancers and correlate cancer-specific signaling with diverse drug responses. Thus, converting pharmacogenomics big data into knowledge can help the discovery of synergistic drug combination. However, it is challenging and remains an open problem due to the enormous number of combination possibilities and noise of genomics data.', u'/content/early/2016/04/16/049015', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Houston Methodist Research Institute']]
[u'A statistical guide to the design of deep mutational scanning experiments', ['Sebastian Matuszewski', 'Marcel Eckhardt Hildebrandt', 'Ana-Hermina Ghenu', 'Jeffrey D. Jensen', 'Claudia Bank'], u'April 16, 2016.', u'The characterization of the distribution of mutational effects is a key goal in evolutionary biology. \nRecently developed deep-sequencing approaches allow for accurate and simultaneous estimation of the fitness effects of hundreds of engineered mutations by monitoring their relative abundance across time points in a single bulk competition.  \nNaturally, the achievable resolution of the estimated fitness effects depends on the specific experimental setup, the organism and type of mutations studied, the sequencing technology utilized, among other factors.\nBy means of analytical approximations and simulations, we provide guidelines for optimizing time-sampled deep-sequencing bulk competition experiments, focusing on the number of mutants, the sequencing depth, and the number of sampled time points. \nOur analytical results show that sampling more time points together with extending the duration of the experiment improves the achievable precision disproportionately as compared with increasing the sequencing depth, or reducing the number of competing mutants.\nEven if the duration of the experiment is fixed, sampling more time points and clustering these at the beginning and the end of the experiment increases experimental power, and allows the efficient and precise assessment of the entire range of selection coefficients.\nFinally, we provide a formula for calculating the 95%-confidence interval for the measurement error estimate, which we implement as an interactive web tool. This allows for quantification of the maximum expected a prioriprecision of the experimental setup, as well as for a statistical threshold for determining deviations from neutrality for specific selection coefficient estimates.', u'/content/early/2016/04/16/048892', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'EPFL;', u'Instituto Gulbenkian de Ci\xeancia;', u'\xc9cole Polytechnique F\xe9d\xe9rale de Lausanne (EPFL);', u'Instituto Gulbenkian de Ci\xe9ncia']]
[u'Analysis of shared heritability in common disorders of the brain', ['Verneri Anttila', 'Brendan Bulik-Sullivan', 'Hilary Kiyo Finucane', 'Jose Bras', 'Laramie Duncan', 'Valentina Escott-Price', 'Guido Falcone', 'Padhraig Gormley', 'Rainer Malik', 'Nikolaos Patsopoulos', 'Stephan Ripke', 'Raymond Walters', 'Zhi Wei', 'Dongmei Yu', 'Phil Lee', 'Gerome Breen', 'Cynthia Bulik', 'Mark Daly', 'Martin Dichgans', 'Stephen Faraone', 'Rita Guerreiro', 'Peter Holmans', 'Kenneth Kendler', 'Bobby Koeleman', 'Carol Mathews', 'Jeremiah Scharf', 'Pamela Sklar', 'Julie Williams', 'Nick Wood', 'Chris Cotsapas', 'Aarno Palotie', 'Jordan Smoller', 'Patrick Sullivan', 'Jonathan Rosand', 'Aiden Corvin', 'Benjamin Neale'], u'April 16, 2016.', u'Disorders of the brain exhibit considerable epidemiological comorbidity and frequently share symptoms, provoking debate about the extent of their etiologic overlap. Here we apply linkage disequilibrium score regression (LDSC) to quantify the extent of shared genetic contributions across 23 brain disorders (n=842,820), 11 quantitative and four dichotomous traits of interest (n=722,125) based on genome-wide association meta-analyses. Psychiatric disorders show substantial sharing of common variant risk, while many neurological disorders appear more distinct from one another, suggesting substantive differences in the specificity of the genetic etiology of these disorders. Further, we observe little evidence of widespread sharing of the common genetic risk between neurological and psychiatric disorders studied. In addition, we identify significant sharing of genetic influences between the certain quantitative measures and brain disorders, including major depressive disorder and neuroticism personality score. These results highlight the importance of common genetic variation as a source of risk for brain disorders and the potential of using heritability methods to obtain a more comprehensive view of the genetic architecture of brain phenotypes.', u'/content/early/2016/04/16/048991', [u'Genetics'], [u'Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard;', u'MIT;', u'UCL, Institute of Neurology;', u'Broad Institute;', u'Cardiff University;', u'Center for Human Genetic Research, Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital;', u'Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich;', u'Charite Universitatsmedizin Berlin;', u'New Jersey Institute of Technology;', u'Psychiatric and Neurodevelopmental Genetics Unit (PNGU), Center for Human Genetics Research, Massach;', u'Kings College London;', u'University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill;', u'SUNY Upstate Medical University;', u'University College London;', u'Virginia Commonwealth University;', u'University Medical Center Utrecht;', u'University of Florida;', u'Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai;', u'Yale School of Medicine;', u'University of North Carolina School of Medicine;', u'Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital;', u'Trinity College Dublin']]
[u'Cortical rhythms are modulated by respiration', ['Detlef H Heck', 'Samuel S McAfee', 'Yu Liu', 'Abbas Babajani-Feremi', 'Roozbeh Rezaie', 'Walter J Freeman', 'James W Wheless', 'Andrew C Papanicolaou', 'Miklos Ruszinko', 'Robert Kozma'], u'April 16, 2016.', u'The brain generates oscillatory neuronal activity at a broad range of frequencies and the presence and amplitude of certain oscillations at specific times and in specific brain regions are highly correlated with states of arousal, sleep, and with a wide range of cognitive processes. The neuronal mechanisms underlying the generation of brain rhythms are poorly understood, particularly for low-frequency oscillations. We recently reported that respiration-locked olfactory bulb activity causes delta band (0.5 - 4 Hz) oscillatory neuronal activity in the whisker sensory (barrel) cortex in mice. Furthermore, gamma oscillations (30 - 100Hz), which are widely implicated in cognitive processing, were power-modulated in synchrony with the respiratory rhythm. These findings link afferent sensory activity caused by respiration directly to cortical rhythms associated with cognitive functions. Here we review the related literature and present new evidence to propose that respiration has a direct influence on oscillatory cortical activity, including gamma oscillations, and on transitions between synchronous and asynchronous cortical network states (marked by phase transitions). Oscillatory cortical activity, as well as phase transitions, has been implicated in cognitive functions, potentially linking respiratory phase to cognitive processing. We further argue that respiratory influence on cortical activity is present in most, and possibly in all areas of the neocortex in mice and humans. We furthermore suggest that respiration had a role in modulating cortical rhythms from early mammalian evolution. Early mammals relied strongly on their olfactory sense and had proportionately large olfactory bulbs. We propose that to this day the respiratory rhythm remains an integral element of dynamic cortical activity in mammals. We argue that breathing modulates all cortical functions, including cognitive and emotional processes, which could elucidate the well-documented but largely unexplained effects of respiratory exercises on mood and cognitive function.', u'/content/early/2016/04/16/049007', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Dept. of Anatomy and Neurobiology, University of Tennessee Health Science Center, Memphis, TN, 38163;', u'Dept. of Pediatrics, University of Tennessee Health Science Center and Le Bonheur Childrens Hospital;', u'Department of Molecular & Cell Biology, Division of Neurobiology, UC at Berkeley;', u'Renyi Institute of Mathematics, Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Budapest, Realtanoda u., Hungary;', u'Dept. of Mathematical Sciences, University of Memphis, Memphis, TN 38152']]
[u'An experimental evaluation of drug-induced mutational meltdown as an antiviral treatment strategy', ['Claudia Bank', 'Nicholas Renzette', 'Ping Liu', 'Sebastian Matuszewski', 'Hyunjin Shim', 'Matthieu Foll', 'Daniel N.A. Bolon', 'Konstantin B. Zeldovich', 'Timothy F. Kowalik', 'Robert W. Finberg', 'Jennifer P. Wang', 'Jeffrey D. Jensen'], u'April 16, 2016.', u'The rapid evolution of drug resistance remains a critical public health concern. The treatment of influenza A virus (IAV) has proven particularly challenging, due to the ability of the virus to develop resistance against current antivirals and vaccines. Here we evaluate a novel antiviral drug therapy, favipiravir, for which the mechanism of action in IAV involves an interaction with the viral RNA- dependent RNA polymerase resulting in an effective increase in the viral mutation rate. We utilize an experimental evolution framework, combined with novel population genetic method development for inference from time-sampled data, in order to evaluate the effectiveness of favipiravir against IAV. Evaluating whole genome polymorphism data across fifteen time points under multiple drug concentrations and in controls, we present the first evidence for the ability of viral populations to effectively adapt to low concentrations of favipiravir. In contrast, under high concentrations, we observe population extinction, indicative of mutational meltdown. We discuss the observed dynamics with respect to the evolutionary forces at play and emphasize the utility of evolutionary theory to inform drug development.', u'/content/early/2016/04/16/048934', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Instituto Gulbenkian de CIencia;', u'University of Massachusetts Medical School;', u'Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne;', u'International Agency for Research on Cancer;', u'Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne (EPFL)']]
[u'Metavisitor, a suite of Galaxy tools for simple and rapid detection and discovery of viruses in deep sequence data', ['Guillaume Carissimo', 'Marius van den Beek', 'Juliana Pegoraro', 'Kenneth D Vernick', 'Christophe Antoniewski'], u'April 16, 2016.', u'We present user-friendly and adaptable software to provide biologists, clinical researchers and possibly diagnostic clinicians with the ability to robustly detect and reconstruct viral genomes from complex deep sequence datasets. A set of modular bioinformatic tools and workflows was implemented as the Metavisitor package in the Galaxy framework. Using the graphical Galaxy workflow editor, users with minimal computational skills can use existing Metavisitor workflows or adapt them to suit specific needs by adding or modifying analysis modules. Metavisitor can be used on our Mississippi server, or can be installed on any Galaxy server instance and a pre-configured Metavisitor server image is provided. Metavisitor works with DNA, RNA or small RNA sequencing data over a range of read lengths and can use a combination of de novo and guided approaches to assemble genomes from sequencing reads. We show that the software has the potential for quick diagnosis as well as discovery of viruses from a vast array of organisms. Importantly, we provide here executable Metavisitor use cases, which increase the accessibility and transparency of the software, ultimately enabling biologists or clinicians to focus on biological or medical questions.', u'/content/early/2016/04/16/048983', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Institut Pasteur, CNRS;', u'IBPS CNRS, Universite Pierre et Marie Curie;', u'CNRS IBPS, Universite Pierre et Marie Curie']]
[u'Deep sequencing analysis of the circadian transcriptome of the jewel wasp Nasonia vitripennis', ['Nathaniel J Davies', 'Eran Tauber'], u'April 16, 2016.', u'The study of the circadian clock has benefited greatly from using Drosophila as a model system. Yet, accumulating evidence suggests that the fly might not be the canonical insect model. Here, we have analysed the circadian transcriptome of the Jewl wasp Nasonia vitripennis by using RNA-seq in both constant darkness and constant light (in contrast to flies, the wasps are rhythmic under continuous light). We identify approximately 6% of the transcriptome as cycling under constant conditions, revealing a bimodal distribution of phases and low cycling amplitude. We examine the functions under circadian control in Nasonia, identifying clock control of functions such as metabolism, light response, and a variety of neural processes, drawing comparisons between Nasonia and Drosophila. We characterise the transcriptional differences underlying phenotypic differences in free-running circadian behaviour in constant darkness and constant light, revealing significant down-regulation of catabolic processes in constant light. We also profile levels of opsins transcription, gaining insight into how Nasonia responds to light, which is a key question in circadian research in the Hymenoptera.   Although there was little similarity between cycling genes in Drosophila and Nasonia, the functions fulfilled by cycling transcripts were similar in both species. Of the known Drosophila core clock genes, only pdp1e, shaggy and Clock showed a significant cycling in Nasonia, underscoring the importance of studying the clock in non-model organisms.', u'/content/early/2016/04/16/048736', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Leicester']]
[u'Membrane insertion of- and membrane potential sensing by semiconductor voltage nanosensors: feasibility demonstration', ['Kyoungwon Park', 'Yung Kuo', 'Volodymyr Shvadchak', 'Antonino Ingargiola', 'Xinghong Dai', 'Lawrence Hsiung', 'Wookyeom Kim', 'Hong Zhou', 'Peng Zou', 'Alex Levine', 'Jack Li', 'Shimon Weiss'], u'April 16, 2016.', u'We develop membrane voltage nanosensors that are based on inorganic semiconductor nanoparticles. These voltage nanosensors are designed to self-insert into the cell membrane and optically record the membrane potential via the quantum confined Stark effect, with single-particle sensitivity. We present here the approach, design rules, and feasibility proves for this concept. With further improvements, semiconductor nanoparticles could potentially be used to study signals from many neurons in a large field-of-view over a long duration. Moreover, they could potentially report and resolve voltage signals on the nanoscale.', u'/content/early/2016/04/16/044057', [u'Bioengineering'], [u'Dept. of Chemistry & Biochemistry, University of California, Los Angeles;', u'Institute of Organic Chemistry and Biochemistry AS CR;', u'Department of Microbiology, Immunology, and Molecular Genetic, University of California, Los Angeles;', u'Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Department, University of California, Los Angeles;', u'Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of California, Los Angeles;', u'California NanoSystems Institute, University of California, Los Angeles;', u'College of Chemistry and Molecular Engineering, Peking University;', u'Dept. of Chemistry, Dept. of Physics, University of California, Los Angeles']]
[u'Acute and chronic gregarisation are associated with distinct DNA methylation fingerprints in desert locusts', ['Eamonn B Mallon', 'Harindra E Amarasinghe', 'Swidbert R Ott'], u'April 16, 2016.', u'Desert locusts (Schistocerca gregaria) show a dramatic form of socially induced phenotypic plasticity known as phase polyphenism.  In the absence of conspecifics, locusts occur in a shy and cryptic solitarious phase.  Crowding with conspecifics drives a behavioural transformation towards gregariousness that occurs within hours and is followed by changes in physiology, colouration and morphology, resulting in the full gregarious phase syndrome.  We analysed methylation-sensitive amplified fragment length polymorphisms (MS-AFLP) to compare the effect of acute and chronic crowding on DNA methylation in the central nervous system.  We find that crowd-reared and solitary-reared locusts show markedly different neural MS-AFLP fingerprints.  However, crowding for a day resulted in neural MS-AFLP fingerprints that were clearly distinct from both crowd-reared and uncrowded solitary-reared locusts.  Our results indicate that changes in DNA methylation associated with behavioural gregarisation proceed through intermediate states that are not simply partial realisations of the endpoint states.', u'/content/early/2016/04/16/018499', [u'Zoology'], [u'University of Leicester;', u'University of Southampton']]
[u'plasmidSPAdes: Assembling Plasmids from Whole Genome Sequencing Data', ['Dmitry Antipov', 'Nolan Hartwick', 'Max Shen', 'Mikhail Raiko', 'Alla Lapidus', 'Pavel Pevzner'], u'April 15, 2016.', u"Motivation: Plasmids are stably maintained extra-chromosomal genetic elements that replicate independently from the host cell's chromosomes. Although plasmids harbor biomedically important genes, (such as genes involved in virulence and antibiotics resistance), there is a shortage of specialized software tools for extracting and assembling plasmid data from whole genome sequencing projects.\nResults: We present the plasmidSPAdes algorithm and software tool for assembling plasmids from whole genome sequencing data and benchmark its performance on a diverse set of bacterial genomes.\nAvailability and implementation: PLASMID SPADES is publicly available at http://spades.bioinf.spbau.ru/plasmidSPAdes/", u'/content/early/2016/04/15/048942', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'St. Petersburg State University;', u'Department of Computer Science and Engineering, University of California, San Diego, USA;', u'Bioinformatics and Systems Biology Program, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA']]
[u'A simple offspring-to-mother size ratio predicts post-reproductive lifespan', ['George Maliha', 'Coleen T Murphy'], u'April 15, 2016.', u'Why do many animals live well beyond their reproductive period? This seems counter to the theory that the fraction of life spent reproducing should be maximized in order to maximize the number of offspring produced in each generation. To resolve this paradox, hypotheses have been developed that evoke parental or grandparental care as reasons for post-reproductive life (e.g., the Mother and Grandmother Hypotheses). However, these hypotheses fail to explain the presence of post-reproductive life in organisms that do not care for their young, such as Caenorhabditis elegans. Here we show that a candidate proxy of the stress of childbirth explains a large portion of the variance in post-reproductive lifespans across many species. A remarkably simple metric, the offspring ratio (ratio of the size or weight of offspring to that of the mother) explained 77% of the variance of the post-reproductive lifespan in a sample drawn from widely dispersed taxa. Our results suggest that the stress of childbirth is an important and conserved determinant of post-reproductive lifespan. Thus, long post-reproductive lifespan may simply be a byproduct of the somatic health required for reproduction of large progeny, regardless of parental care.', u'/content/early/2016/04/15/048835', [u'Genetics'], [u'Princeton University']]
[u'On the importance of skewed offspring distributions and background selection in viral population genetics', ['Kristen K. Irwin', 'Stefan Laurent', 'Sebastian Matuszewski', 'Severine Vuilleumier', 'Louise Ormond', 'Hyunjin Shim', 'Claudia Bank', 'Jeffrey D. Jensen'], u'April 15, 2016.', u'Many features of viral populations make them excellent candidates for population genetic study, including a very high rate of mutation, high levels of nucleotide diversity, exceptionally large census population sizes, and frequent positive selection. However, these attributes also mean that special care must be taken in population genetic inference. For example, highly skewed offspring distributions, frequent and severe population bottleneck events associated with infection and compartmentalization, and strong purifying selection all affect the distribution of genetic variation but are often not taken in to account. Here, we draw particular attention to multiple-merger coalescent events and background selection, discuss potential mis-inference associated with these processes, and highlight potential avenues for better incorporating them in to future population genetic analyses.', u'/content/early/2016/04/15/048975', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne (EPFL);', u'Instituto Gulbenkian de Ciencia']]
[u'Time-resolved dual RNA-Seq reveals extensive rewiring of lung epithelial and pneumococcal transcriptomes during early infection', ['Rieza Aprianto', 'Jelle Slager', 'Siger Holsappel', 'Jan-Willem Veening'], u'April 15, 2016.', u'Streptococcus pneumoniae (pneumococcus) is the main etiological agent of pneumonia. Pneumococcal pneumonia is initiated by bacterial adherence to lung epithelial cells. Infection to the epithelium is a disruptive interspecies interaction involving numerous transcription-mediated processes. Revealing transcriptional changes may provide valuable insights into pneumococcal disease. Dual RNA-Seq allows simultaneous monitoring of the transcriptomes of both host and pathogen. Here, we developed a time-resolved infection model of human lung alveolar epithelial cells by S. pneumoniae and assessed transcriptome changes by dual RNA-Seq. Our data provide new insights into host-microbe interactions and show that the epithelial glutathione-detoxification pathway is activated by bacterial presence. We observed that adherent pneumococci, not free-floating bacteria, access host-associated carbohydrates and repress innate immune responses. In conclusion, we provide a dynamic dual-transcriptomics overview of early pneumococcal infection with easy online access (http://dualrnaseq.molgenrug.nl). Further database exploration may expand our understanding of epithelial-pneumococcal interaction, leading to novel antimicrobial strategies.', u'/content/early/2016/04/15/048959', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Groningen']]
[u'Contact statistics highlight distinct organizing principles of proteins and RNA', ['Lei Liu', 'Changbong Hyeon'], u'April 15, 2016.', u'Although both RNA and proteins have densely packed native structures, chain organizations of these two biopolymers are fundamentally different. Motivated by the recent discoveries in chromatin folding that interphase chromosomes have territorial organization with signatures pointing to metastability, we analyzed the biomolecular structures deposited in the Protein Data Bank and found that the intrachain contact probabilities, P(s) as a function of the arc length s, decay in power-law ~ s\u2212\u03b3 over the intermediate range of s, 10 \u2264  s \u2264 110. We found that the contact probability scaling exponent is \u03b3 \u2248 1.11 for large RNA (N > 110), \u03b3 \u2248 1.41 for small sized RNA (N < 110), and \u03b3 \u2248 1.65 for proteins. Given that Gaussian statistics is expected for a fully equilibrated chain in polymer melts, the deviation of \u03b3 value from \u03b3 \u2248 1.5 for the subchains of large RNA in the native state suggests that the chain configuration of RNA is not fully equilibrated. It is visually clear that folded structures of large sized RNA (N>110) adopt crumpled structures, partitioned into modular multi-domains assembled by proximal sequences along the chain, whereas the polypeptide chain of folded proteins looks better mixed with the rest of the structure. Our finding of \u03b3 \u2248 1 for large RNA might be an ineluctable consequence of the hierarchical ordering of the secondary to tertiary elements in the folding process.', u'/content/early/2016/04/15/048686', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Korea Institute for Advanced Study']]
[u'The Genetic Architecture of a Complex Trait is more Sensitive to Genetic Model than Population Growth', ['Jaleal Sanjak', 'Anthony D Long', 'Kevin R Thornton'], u'April 15, 2016.', u'The genetic component of complex disease risk in humans remains\nlargely unexplained. A corollary is that the allelic spectrum of\ngenetic variants contributing to complex disease risk is\nunknown. Theoretical models that relate population genetic processes\nto the maintenance of genetic variation for quantitative traits may\nsuggest profitable avenues for future experimental design. Here we use\nforward simulation to model a genomic region evolving under a balance\nbetween recurrent deleterious mutation and Gaussian stabilizing\nselection.  We consider three different genetic models, two different\npopulation growth models, and several different methods for\nidentifying genomic regions harboring variants associated with complex\ndisease risk. We demonstrate that the genetic model, relating genotype\nto phenotype, has a qualitative effect on the genetic architecture of\na complex trait. In particular, the variance component partitioning\nacross the allele frequency spectrum and the power of statistical\ntests is more affected by the assumed genetic model than by population\ngrowth. Models with incomplete recessivity most closely match the minor allele frequency distribution of significant hits from empirical genome-wide association studies. Such models show little dominance variance, which is consistent with recent empirical estimates of heritability explained by typed markers. We highlight a particular model of incomplete recessivity that is appealing from first principles. Under that model, deleterious mutations at the same gene partially fail to complement one another. Interestingly this gene-based model predicts considerable levels of unexplained variance associated with within locus epistasis. Our results suggest a need for improvement of statistical tools for region based genetic association and heritability estimation.', u'/content/early/2016/04/15/048819', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of California Irvine']]
[u'Dendrites enable a robust mechanism for neuronal stimulus selectivity', ['Romain D. Caze', 'Sarah Jarvis', 'Amanda Joy Foust', 'Simon R Schultz'], u'April 15, 2016.', u"Hearing, vision, touch -- underlying all of these senses is stimulus selectivity, a robust information processing operation in which cortical neurons respond more to some stimuli than to others. Previous models assume that these neurons receive the highest weighted input from an ensemble encoding the preferred stimulus, but dendrites enable other possibilities.  Non-linear dendritic processing can produce stimulus selectivity based on the spatial distribution of synapses, even if the total preferred stimulus weight does not exceed that of non-preferred stimuli. Using a multi-subunit non-linear model, we demonstrate that selectivity can arise from the spatial distribution of synapses.  Moreover, we show that this implementation of stimulus selectivity increases the neuron's robustness to synaptic and dendritic failure. Contrary to an equivalent linear model, our model can maintain stimulus selectivity even when 50% of synapses fail or when more than 50% of dendrites fail. We then use a Layer 2/3 biophysical neuron model to show that our implementation is consistent with recent experimental observations, of a mixture of selectivities in dendrites, that can differ from the somatic selectivity, and of hyperpolarization broadening somatic tuning without affecting dendritic tuning. Our model predicts that an initially non-selective neuron can become selective when depolarized. In addition to motivating new experiments, the model's increased robustness to synapses and dendrites loss provides a starting point for fault-resistant neuromorphic chip development.", u'/content/early/2016/04/15/023200', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Center for Neurotechnology and Dpt. of Bioengineering, Imperial College London;', u'Imperial College London']]
[u'The Interaction of Genotype and Environment Determines Variation in the Maize Kernel Ionome', ['Alexandra B Asaro', 'Gregory R Ziegler', 'Cathrine Ziyomo', 'Owen A Hoekenga', 'Brian P Dilkes', 'Ivan Baxter'], u'April 15, 2016.', u'Plants obtain soil-resident elements that support growth and metabolism via water-mediated flow facilitated by transpiration and active transport processes. The availability of elements in the environment interact with the genetic capacity of organisms to modulate element uptake through plastic adaptive responses, such as homeostasis. These interactions should cause the elemental contents of plants to vary such that the effects of genetic polymorphisms influencing elemental accumulation will be dramatically dependent on the environment in which the plant is grown. To investigate genotype by environment interactions underlying elemental accumulation, we analyzed levels of elements in maize kernels of the Intermated B73 x Mo17 (IBM) recombinant inbred population grown in 10 different environments spanning a total of six locations and five different years. We identified quantitative trait loci controlling elemental accumulation by considering individual elemental accumulation measurements as traits and by mapping the loci responsible for variation in co-regulated multi-elemental traits identified using principle components analysis. These approaches detected partially overlapping sets of loci, many of which were found only in a single growout. We applied our multi-element approach across all of the growouts and found that the growth environment has a profound effect on the elemental profile and that some multi-element phenotypes correlate with specific environmental variables. We identified QTL by environment interactions (QEIs) through three methods: linear modeling with environmental covariates, QTL analysis on trait differences between growouts, and QTL analysis on factors obtained from a principle component derived model of ionome variation across environments. Overall, we were able to map 79 elemental QTL, 101 principal component QTL, and several instances of QEI, indicating that elemental profiles are highly heritable, interrelated, and responsive to the environment.', u'/content/early/2016/04/15/048173', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Washington University in St. Louis, Donald Danforth Plant Science Center;', u'Donald Danforth Plant Science Center, USDA-Agricultural Research Service;', u'Donald Danforth Plant Science Center;', u'Genomic Consulting;', u'Purdue University']]
