[u'Uncovering Spatio-Temporal and Treatment-Derived Differences in the Molecular Physiology of a Model Coral-Dinoflagellate Mutualism with Multivariate Statistical Approaches', ['Anderson Mayfield'], u'August 11 2016', u'Multivariate statistical approaches (MSA), such as principal components analysis and multidimensional scaling, seek to uncover meaningful patterns within datasets by considering multiple response variables in a concerted fashion. Although these techniques are readily used by ecologists to visualize and explain differences between study sites, they could theoretically be employed to differentiate organisms within an experimental framework while simultaneously identifying response variables that drive documented experimental differences. Therefore, MSA were used herein to attempt to understand the response of the common, Indo-Pacific reef coral Seriatopora hystrix to temperature changes using data from laboratory-based temperature challenge studies performed in Southern Taiwan. Gene expression and physiological data partitioned experimental specimens by time of sampling, treatment temperature, and site of origin upon employing MSA, signifying that S. hystrix and its dinoflagellate endosymbionts display physiological and molecular signatures that are characteristic of sampling time, site of colony origin, and/or temperature regime. These findings promote the utility of MSA for documenting biologically meaningful shifts in the physiological and/or sub-cellular response of marine invertebrates exposed to environmental change.', u'/manuscript/201608.0118/v1', [u'Physiology'], [u'National Museum of Marine Biology and Aquarium, Checheng, Pingtung 944, Taiwan', u'Living Oceans Foundation, Annapolis, MD 21403, USA']]
[u'Quantifying Mosaic Development: Towards an Evo-Devo Postmodern Synthesis of the Evolution of Development via Differentiation Trees of Embryos', ['Bradly Alicea', 'Richard Gordon'], u'August 10 2016', u'Embryonic development proceeds through a series of differentiation events. The mosaic version of this process (binary cell divisions) can be analyzed by comparing early development of Ciona intestinalis and Caenorhabditis elegans. To do this, we reorganize lineage trees into differentiation trees using the graph theory ordering of relative cell volume. Lineage and differentiation trees provide us with means to classify each cell using binary codes. Extracting data characterizing lineage tree position, cell volume, and nucleus position for each cell during early embryogenesis, we conduct several statistical analyses, both within and between taxa. We compare both cell volume distributions and cell volume across developmental time within and between single species and assess differences between lineage tree and differentiation tree orderings. This enhances our understanding of the differentiation events in a model of pure mosaic embryogenesis and its relationship to evolutionary conservation. We also contribute several new techniques for assessing both differences between lineage trees and differentiation trees, and differences between differentiation trees of different species. The results suggest that at the level of differentiation trees, there are broad similarities between distantly related mosaic embryos that might be essential to understanding evolutionary change and phylogeny reconstruction. Differentiation trees may therefore provide a basis for an  Evo-Devo Postmodern Synthesis.', u'/manuscript/201608.0108/v1', [u'Anatomy & Morphology'], [u'Orthogonal Research, Champaign, IL 61821, USA', u'OpenWorm, San Diego, CA, USA', u'Gulf Specimen Marine Laboratory & Aquarium, 222 Clark Drive, Panacea, FL 32346, USA', u'C.S. Mott Center for Human Growth & Development, Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, Wayne State University, 275 E. Hancock, Detroit, MI 48201, USA']]
[u'A Comprehensive View of Expression Profiles Dynamics of Capsaicinoid Biosynthesis-Related Genes during Pepper Fruit Development and under MeJA Treatment', ['Minghua Deng', 'Jinfen Wen', 'Kai Zhao', 'Jinlong Huo', 'Zhuqing Zhang', 'Haishan Zhu', 'Xuexiao Zou'], u'August 10 2016', u'Background: Capsaicinoid are a group of compounds and widely used in the food, medical, and pharmaceutical industries. Capsaicinoid are unique synthesized and accumulated in the pepper fruits. MeJA can enhance the capsaicinoid production. Temporal and spatial expression of capsaicinoid biosynthetic genes are helpful to understand the molecular mechnism of capsaicinoid biosynthesis in the fruits of pepper. Although some of the capsaicinoid biosynthetic genes in pepper have been identified, the expression of these genes at different developing stages of fruit has not been systemically investigated, and little is known about the molecular basis of MeJA inducing capsaicinoid biosynthesis. Results: HPLC study revealed that the capsaicinoid accumulation in the developing fruit of pepper initially appeared at 24 DAP (day after pollination), was actively development at 36 DAP and peaked at 48 DAP. 11 genes that encoded enzymes involved in capsaicinoid biosynthesis were isolated and characterized. Gene expression with quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction analysis demonstrated that the CaCS was unique expressed in placenta and the other 10 genes were expressed in all selected tissues and 9 of 11 genes (except CaCa4H and CaCa3H) were strongly expressed in placenta tissue. Spatial expression analysis demostrated that the 11 gene could be collectively grouped into four categories based on the patterns of relative expression of the genes during fruit development. Category I has 2 and they displayed a bell-shaped expression pattern with the peak expression at 24 DAP, Category II contains 5 genes and expression of the 5 genes was constantly increased from 0 to 36 DAP and peaked at 36 DAP. Category III comprises of 2 genes and both genes reached the peak at 48 DAP. Category IV consists of 2 genes and they showed a high expression at 36 and 48 DAF, but unexpressed from 0 to 12 DAP. The gene expressions of the 11 genes were up-regulated by MeJA. 3 genes showed a high expression at 24 h; 4 genes reached the peak at 12 h; the top expression were observed at 18 h; The last one, CaACYase, achieved the highest level at 8 h. Conclusion: The biosynthesis of capsaicinoid in pepper fruit is developmentally regulated. The expression of the majority of capsaicinoid biosynthetic genes is highly consistent with the development accumulation of capsaicinoid in pepper fruit. These results not only provide the initial information on spatial and temporal expression of capsaicinoid biosynthetic genes in pepper developing fruit, but are also valuable to identify the MeJA-induced genes for capsaicinoid biosynthesis and accumulation during pepper fruit development.', u'/manuscript/201608.0104/v1', [u'Horticulture'], [u'College of Horticulture, Yunnan Agricultural University, Kunming 650224, China', u'Hunan Academy of Agricultural Science, Changsha 420125, China', u'College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853, USA', u'Faculty of Architecture and City Planning, Kunming University of Science and Technology, Kunming 650500, China', u'Faculty of Animal Science and Technology, Yunnan Agricultural University, Kunming 650224, China']]
[u'Multi-Omics Studies towards Novel Modulators of Influenza A Virus-Host Interaction', ['Sandra Soderholm', 'Yu Fu', 'Lana Gaelings', 'Sergey Belanov', 'Laxmana Yetukuri', 'Mikhail Berlinkov', 'Anton V. Cheltov', 'Simon Anders', 'Tero Aittokallio', 'Tuula A. Nyman', 'Sampsa Matikainen', 'Denis E. Kainov'], u'August 5 2016', u'Human influenza A viruses (IAVs) cause global pandemics and epidemics. These viruses evolve rapidly, making current treatment options ineffective. To identify novel modulators of IAV-host interactions, we re-analyzed our recent transcriptomics, metabolomics, proteomics, phosphoproteomics, and genomics/virtual ligand screening data. We identified 713 potential modulators targeting 200 cellular and two viral proteins. Anti-influenza activity for 48 of them has been reported previously, whereas the antiviral efficacy of the remaining 665 is unknown. Studying anti-influenza efficacy, immuno-modulating properties and potential resistance of these compounds or their combinations may lead to the discovery of novel modulators of IAV-host interactions, which might be more effective than the currently available anti-influenza therapeutics.', u'/manuscript/201608.0054/v1', [u'Other'], [u'Institute of Biotechnology, University of Helsinki, 00100 Helsinki, Finland', u'Finnish Institute of Occupational Health, Helsinki, Finland', u'Institute for Molecular Medicine Finland (FIMM), University of Helsinki, 00100 Helsinki, Finland', u'Institute of Mathematics and Computer Science, Ural Federal University, Yekaterinburg, Sverdlovsk Oblast, Russia', u'Q-Mol L.L.C., San Diego, CA, USA', u'Department of Mathematics and Statistics, University of Turku, Turku, Finland', u'Institute of Clinical Medicine, Sognsvannsveien 20, Rikshospitalet, 0372 Oslo, Norway', u'Department of Rheumatology, University of Helsinki and Helsinki University Hospital, Helsinki, Finland']]
[u'Soil Tillage Systems and Wheat Yield in Climate Change Scenarios', ['Pieranna Servadio', 'Simone Bergonzoli', 'Claudio Beni'], u'August 2 2016', u'In this study the effects of three different main preparatory tillage operations [ploughing at 0.4 m (P40) and 0.20 m (P20) depth and minimum tillage at 0.20 m depth (MT) each of them carried out at two different soil water contents (WC) [low, 58% (LH) and high, 80% (HH) of field capacity] were investigated. The results obtained in this research show high values of soil strength in term of Penetration resistance (CI) and shear strength (SS) particularly in deeper soil layers at lower water content. Fossil-fuel energy requirements both for P40 LH and P20 LH were 25 and 35% higher with respect to the HH treatments and tractor slip were very high (P40 LH = 32.4%) with respect to the P40 HH treatment (16%). Therefore soil water content had significantly influenced tractor performance during soil ploughing, particularly at 0.40 m depth while MT was not influenced at all. A significant correlation between grain yield and soil penetration resistance was found highlighting how soil strength may be good indicator of its productivity. Obtained results during these field tests allowed considering MT and P20 treatments more suitable for this type of soil in climate change scenarios.', u'/manuscript/201608.0018/v1', [u'Agricultural Sciences & Agronomy'], [u'Council for Agricultural Research and Economics, Agricultural Engineering Research Unit (CREA-ING), Via della Pascolare 16, 00015 Monterotondo, Italy', u'Council for Agricultural Research and Economics, Research Centre for Soil-Plant System (CREA-RPS), Via della Navicella 2-4, 00184 Roma, Italy']]
[u'Mental Health in Cypriot Citizens of the Rural Health Centre Kofinou', ['Georgios Stavrou', 'Eleni Jelastopulu', 'Lefkios Paikousis', 'Georgios Charalambous'], u'August 11 2016', u'Objective: The main purpose of this study was to investigate the mental health of Cypriot citizens, living in the current difficult period of economic recession. Specific objective was to investigate the different factors (gender, age, socio-economic factors, etc.) that may affect the levels of emotional distress, anxiety and depression in visitors of the Rural Health Centre of Kofinou. Materials and Methods: The sample consisted of total 300 Cypriots who visited Kofinou Health Centre in the period between August and September 2015. For the middle-aged citizens the Greek version of the HADS scale (Hospital Anxiety Depression Scale) was administered to 150 persons (Michopoulos I., 2007), while for the visiting senior citizens (aged over 65 years) the Greek version of the GDS scale (Geriatric Depression Scale) was used (Fountoulakis K., et al., 1999). All analyses were performed with the social science analysis package SPSS (version 21). Results: HADS: A total of 150 people of average age 47\xb111,5 years (23-64), were 56% women, while the 77.3% stated they had drastic reduction of income as well as 46.7% suffered from chronic disease. The 36.6% and 28.7% of the visitors showed moderate and severe forms of anxiety and depression, accordingly. Higher emotional distress is associated with lower educational level (p<0,001). Moreover, patients with low income have higher levels of anxiety (p=0,003), depression (p=0,036) and total emotional distress (p=0,007), while those with chronic disease have a higher stress (p<0,001), depression (p<0,001) and total emotional distress symptoms (p<0,001) compared to non - patients. GDS: 150 patients out of which 77 were women (51.3%). The average age of participants was 72\xb15,5 years. 93(62%) participants declared a drastic reduction of income due to the financial crisis while 139 (92.7%) stated they had chronic disease. 53 participants (35.3%) think they have symptoms of depression after the economic crisis. The women showed higher level of geriatric depression symptoms than men (p<0.001). Higher levels of depression is associated with lower income (p=0.001). Conclusions: The study shows that stress levels, depression and emotional distress are increased in specific population groups. The main factors affecting the mental health of the participants are the presence of chronic disease, income and level of education.', u'/manuscript/201608.0093/v2', [u'Psychiatry & Mental Health studies'], [u'Department of Pharmacy, Rural Health Centre Kofinou, Larnaka, Cyprus', u'MSc Health Management, Frederick University, Nicosia, Cyprus', u'Department of Public Health, Medical School, University of Patras, Patras, Greece', u'Senior Statistician, Nicosia, Cyprus', u'Department of Emergency Medicine, General Hospital of Athens \u201cHippocration\u201d, Athens, Greece']]
[u'Targeted Cancer Therapy: Vital Oncogenes and a New Molecular Genetic Paradigm for Cancer Initiation Progression and Treatment', ['Rudolph E. Willis'], u'August 11 2016', u'It has been declared repeatedly that cancer is a result of molecular genetic abnormalities. However, there has been no working model describing the specific functional consequences of the deranged genomic processes that result in the initiation and propagation of the cancer process during carcinogenesis. We no longer need to question rather or not cancer arises as a result of a molecular genetic defect within the cancer cell. The legitimate questions are how and why? This article reviews the preeminent data on cancer molecular genetics and subsequently proposes that the sentinel event in cancer initiation is the aberrant production of fused transcription activators with new molecular properties within normal tissue stem cells. This results in the production of vital oncogenes with dysfunctional gene activation transcription properties which leads to dysfunctional gene regulation, the aberrant activation of transduction pathways, chromosomal breakage, activation of driver oncogenes, reactivation of stem cell transduction pathways and the activation of genes that result in the hallmarks of cancer. Furthermore, a novel holistic molecular genetic model of cancer initiation and progression is presented along with a new paradigm for the approach to personalized targeted cancer therapy, clinical monitoring and cancer diagnosis.', u'/manuscript/201608.0115/v1', [u'Oncology & Oncogenics'], [u'OncoStem Biotherapeutics LLC, 423 W 127th St, New York, NY 10027, USA']]
[u'Perinatal Risk Factors and Genu Valgum Conduce to the Onset of "Growing Pains" in Early Childhood', ['Angelos Kaspiris', 'Efstathios Chronopoulos', 'Elias Vasiliadis'], u'August 10 2016', u'The most prevalent musculoskeletal disorder of childhood with unclear aetiology is Growing Pains (GPs). Anatomic deformities and factors that change bone turnover are implicated in GPs pathophysiology. Perinatal risk factors alter the bone metabolism affecting the bone mineral density and content. The aim of our study was to analyze the relationship between GPs, knock knees and perinatal factors. The examined population consisted of 276 children aged 3-7 years. Among them 10 pairs of dizygotic twins were evaluated. The data were collected by using a combination of semi-structured questionnaires, clinical examinations and medical charts of the children and the obstetric history of the mothers. 78 children presented GPs meeting Peterson\u2019s criteria. Genu valgum severity was a significant factor for GPs manifestation and for their increased frequency and intensity. Subsequently, perinatal factors regarding gestational age, Apgar score, head circumference (lower than 33cm) and birth length or weight (smaller than 50 cm and 3000gr, respectively) made a remarkable contribution to the development of GPs. Conversely, antenatal corticosteroid treatment, increased maternal age and maternal smoking during pregnancy were not predictive for the disorder. Our data are potentially supportive for the \u201cbone strength\u201d theory and for the contribution of anatomical disturbances in GPs appearance.', u'/manuscript/201608.0113/v1', [u'Pediatrics'], [u'Department of Trauma and Orthopaedics, Thriasio General Hospital \u2013  NHS, G. Gennimata av, Magoula 19600, Athens, Greece', u'Second Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Konstantopoulio General Hospital and Medical School, University of Athens, Athens 14233, Greece', u'Third Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, KAT General Hospital and Medical School, University of Athens, Kifissia 14561, Athens, Greece']]
[u'Role of Cardiac Troponin I level in predicting in-hospital outcomes in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction in Erbil-Iraq', ['Salam Zangana', 'Abdulkareem Al-Othman', 'Namir Al-Tawil'], u'August 9 2016', u'Background and objectives: The correlation of cardiac troponin I with early in-hospital outcomes in acute myocardial infarction is not well established. This study aims to assess the role of troponin I in predicting in-hospital outcomes and early left ventricular systolic dysfunction in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). Patients and methods: In a prospective study, 116 patients (74males and 42 females), with STEMI who had been admitted to the Coronary CareUnit from March 2015 to September 2015 were enrolled. Patients were divided according to the level of troponin I on admission into 3 groups (low, medium and high elevation). Results: The mean age (+ SD) of the patients was 60+11.4 years. The troponin level of 66.2% of males was high compared with 52.4% of females (p=0.002). The incidence of acute pulmonary edema (21.1%), cardiogenic shock (7%) and early left ventricular systolic dysfunction (49.3%) was significantly higher among patients with high troponin level compared with (0%, 0% and 16%, respectively) among patients with low troponin level. All deaths and cardiac arrest were of high troponin level. Conclusions: High admission troponin I in STEMI permits early identification of patients at increased risk of major cardiac complications and death.', u'/manuscript/201608.0100/v1', [u'Cardiology'], [u'Department of Medicine, College of Medicine, Hawler Medical University, Erbil, Iraq']]
[u'Intestinal Organoids\u2014Current and Future Applications', ['Andre M. C. Meneses', 'Kerstin Schneeberger', 'Hedwig S. Kruitwagen', 'Louis C. Penning', 'Frank G. van Steenbeek', 'Iwan Burgener', 'Bart Spee'], u'August 9 2016', u'Recent technical advances in the stem cell field have enabled the in vitro generation of complex structures resembling whole organs termed organoids. Most of these approaches employ culture systems that allow stem cell-derived or tissue progenitor cells to self-organize into three-dimensional (3D)-structures. Since organoids can be grown from various species, organs and from patient-derived induced pluripotent stem cells, they create significant prospects for modelling development and diseases, for toxicology and drug discovery studies, and in the field of regenerative medicine. Here, we report on intestinal stem cells, organoid culture, organoid disease modeling, transplantation, current and future uses of this exciting new insight model to veterinary medicine field.', u'/manuscript/201608.0090/v1', [u'Veterinary Medicine'], [u'Universidade Federal Rural da Amaz\xf4nia, Postdoctoral Fellowship Cnpq, Bel\xe9m 66077-830, Brazil', u'Department of Clinical Sciences of Companion Animals, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine,  Utrecht University, Yalelaan 104, Utrecht 3584 CM, The Netherlands']]
[u'Difference between Serum BNP Admission Level and that Detected at Discharge in Patients with ADHF Predicts Six-Month Mortality in a More Reliable Manner with Respect to Isolated BNP Determination Taken on Admission', ['Renato De Vecchis', 'Carmelina Ariano', 'Cesare Baldi'], u'August 9 2016', u'Background According to some authors, a single isolated measurement of serum BNP executed on hospital admission would not be a sufficiently accurate method to predict the outcome of patients with ADHF. Aims For verifying this assumption, a retrospective study was conducted on patients hospitalized for ADHF. Our main objective was to ascertain whether there was any difference in midterm mortality among patients with rising BNP at discharge as compared to those with decreasing BNP at discharge. Methods Medical records were examined so as to make a partition of the ADHF patient population into two groups, the former characterized by a rise in BNP during hospitalization, and the latter exhibiting a decrease in BNP in the measurement taken at hospital discharge. Results 177 patients were enrolled in a retrospective study. Among them, 53 patients (29.94%) had increased BNPs at the time of discharge, whereas 124 (70.06%) showed decreases in serum BNP during their hospital stay. The group with patients who exhibited BNP increases at the time of discharge had higher degree of congestion evident in the higher frequency of persistent jugular venous distention and persistent orthopnea at discharge. Moreover, patients with increased BNP at the time of discharge had a lower reduction in inferior vena cava maximum diameter [1.58 \xb1 2.2 mm vs. 6.32 \xb1 1.82 mm; p (one-way ANOVA)=0.001]. In contrast, there was no significant difference in weight loss when patients with increased BNP at discharge were compared to those with no such increase. A total of 14 patients (7.9%) died during the six-month follow-up period. Cox proportional hazard analysis revealed that BNP increase at the time of discharge was an independent predictor of six-month all-cause mortality after adjustment for age, sodium at discharge, creatinine at discharge and New York Heart Association (NYHA) class at discharge (hazard ratio 34.49; 95% confidence intervals: 4.55\u2013261.06; P =0.001). Conclusions Among patients with history of ADHF, more elevated BNP levels at the time of discharge from the hospital compared to those detected at admission identify a patient subset with higher grade of congestion and higher six-month mortality.', u'/manuscript/201608.0087/v1', [u'Cardiology'], [u'Cardiology Unit, Presidio Sanitario Intermedio \u201cElena d\u2019Aosta\u201d, ASL Napoli 1 Centro, Napoli, Italy', u'1\tCardiology Unit, Presidio Sanitario Intermedio \u201cElena d\u2019Aosta\u201d, ASL Napoli 1 Centro, Napoli, Italy', u'Division of Cardiology, Casa di Cura \u201cSollievo della Sofferenza\u201d, S. Giovanni Rotondo, Italy', u'Heart Department, Interventional Cardiology, A.O.U. \u201cSan Giovanni di Dio e Ruggi d\u2019Aragona\u201d, Salerno, Italy']]
[u'The Efficacy of Core Stability Assessment as a Determiner of Performance in Dynamic Balance and Agility Tests.', ['Kieran McCartney', 'Jacky Forsyth'], u'August 9 2016', u"Aim: The aim of this study was to investigate if tests used to assess core stability could be used to determine success in physiological tests applied to assess dynamic balance and agility for a young active population. Methods: Pearson's r correlation coefficient was used to assess the relationship between the core stability tests and the dynamic balance and agility tests. Evaluation of the tests was established using Cronbach's coefficient of variance as part of intra-rater reliability tests. An analysis of 18 active college aged students was conducted (males: n= 13, females: n= 5). The mean \xb1 SD age for males was 19.2 years \xb1 3.22 years and for females was 19.4 years \xb1 1.14 years. Conclusion: The results indicate that there is no significant relationship between tests that assess core stability and tests conducted to assess dynamic balance in active young adults. With the exception of the abdominal flexion test, no significant relationship exists between the remaining core stability tests and agility T-Test. Core stability is not a determinant of balance and agility.", u'/manuscript/201608.0081/v2', [u'Sport Sciences & Therapy'], [u'School of health and Sport, North West Regional College, Strand Road Londonderry, Northern Ireland, BT48 7AL, UK', u'School of Psychology, Sport and Exercise, Faculty of Health Sciences, Staffordshire University, Brindley Building, Leek Road, Stoke-on-Trent, ST4 2DF, UK']]
[u'A Western Dietary Pattern Increases Prostate Cancer Risk: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis', ['Roberto Fabiani', 'Liliana Minelli', 'Gaia Bertarelli', 'Silvia Bacci'], u'August 6 2016', u'Dietary patterns were recently applied to examine the relationship between eating habits and prostate cancer (PC) risk. While the associations between PC risk with glycemic index and Mediterranean score have been reviewed, no meta-analysis is currently available on dietary patterns defined by \u201ca posteriori\u201d methods. Search was carried out (PubMed, Web of Science) to identify studies reporting the relationship between dietary patterns and PC risk. Relevant dietary patterns were selected and the risk estimated were calculated by a random-effect model. Multivariable-adjusted odds ratios (ORs) for a 1st-percentile increase in dietary pattern score were combined by a dose response meta-analysis. 12 observational studies were included in the meta-analysis which identified \u201cHealthy pattern\u201d and \u201cWestern pattern\u201d. The Healthy pattern was not related to PC risk (OR=0.96; 95% CI: 0.88-1.04) while the Western pattern significantly increased it (OR=1.34; 95% CI: 1.08-1.65). In addition, a \u201cCarbohydrate pattern\u201d, identified in four articles, was positively associated with a higher PC risk (OR=1.64; 95% CI: 1.35-2.00). A significant linear trend between the Western (p=0.011) and the Carbohydrate (p=0.005) pattern and the increment of PC risk was observed. The small numbers of studies included suggest that further investigations are necessary to support these findings.', u'/manuscript/201608.0070/v1', [u'Nutrition'], [u'Department of Chemistry, Biology and Biotechnology, University of Perugia, 06123 Perugia, Italy', u'Department of Experimental Medicine, University of Perugia, 06123 Perugia, Italy', u'Department of Economics, University of Perugia, 06123 Perugia, Italy']]
[u'Effectiveness of Public and Co-operative Health Insurance Models in Nepal: A Concurrent Mixed Study', ['Chhabi Ranabhat', 'Chun-Bae Kim', 'Myung-Bae Park'], u'August 6 2016', u'Background: Health insurance (HI) run by government is providing health care service to large population. Due to poor accountability, participation and sustainability, cooperative health insurance is becoming more popular and effective in low and middle income and some high-income countries too. In Nepal, there are public and cooperative HI is in practice. The aim of this study is to compare the effectiveness of public (government) and cooperative HI in relation to benefit packages, population coverage, inclusiveness, health care utilization, and promptness for treatment in these two health insurance models in Nepal. Method: This is an institution based concurrent mixed study consists of qualitative and quantitative variables from public and cooperative groups. We included all public HI operated by government hospitals and cooperatives groups those purchased hospital service in contract. Two separate study tools were applied to access the effectiveness of insurance models. The key questions were asked for the representatives of government and private health insurance. The numeric information consisted of in quantitative data and subjective response was included in qualitative approach. Descriptive statistics and Mean Whitney U test was applied in numeric data and qualitative information were analyzed by inductive approach Results: The study revealed that new enrolment was not increased, health care utilization rate was increased and the benefit package was almost same in both groups. The overall inclusiveness was higher for the government HI, but enrolment from the religious minority, proportion of negotiated amount during treatment were significantly higher (p<0.05). During illness, the response time to reach hospital was significantly faster in cooperative health insurance than government health insurance. Qualitative findings showed that level of participation, accountability, transparency and recording system was better in cooperative health insurance than public. Conclusion: Cooperative HI could be more sustainable and accountable to the community for all; low, middle and high-income countries.', u'/manuscript/201608.0068/v1', [u'Nursing & Health Studies'], [u'Department of Preventive Medicine, Wonju College of Medicine Yonsei University, Wonju, Gangwon 220-701, Korea', u'Health Science Foundations and Study Center, Kathmandu, Nepal', u'Institute for Poverty Alleviation and International Development, Yonsei University Wonju, Gangwon 220-710, Korea']]
[u'Beneficial Effects of Pyridoxal Phosphate on Hydrogen Peroxide Induced Stress on Isolated Pancreatic Acinar Cells', ['Rajanna Ajumeera', 'Vijayalakshmi Venkatesan'], u'August 5 2016', u'Aims: To study the effects of pyridoxal phosphate (PLP) on oxidative stress in isolated pancreatic acinar cells. We have previously shown that PLP has cytoprotective and insulinotropic effects on mice islet cells in vivo and in vitro studies. Main methods: Acinar cells were isolated from three months old WNIN male rats and were cultured in vitro for a period of 24 h in CO2 incubator. Later the cells were divided into four groups as untreated (group 1), H2O2 treatment (group 2), PLP treatment (group 3) and PLP followed by H2O2 treatment (group 4). Cell viability was confirmed using MTT assays, oxidative stress levels were measured with ROS assay, change in different protein levels were recorded by flow cytometry. The acinar cells insulin secretion assay was performed with ELISA. The amylase protein expression was assessed using confocal microscopy. Key findings: The cell viability of acinar cell in group 1 was considered as 100%, while in group 2 it was reduced to 82% due to H2O2 effect, and in group 3 (99.8%) and group 4 (99.5%) were near to group 1 due to the cytoprotective effect of PLP. The ROS levels were increased by 1.47 folds in group 2, while PLP decreased to 1.02 fold in group 4, which was comparable with the changes in group 1. Beneficial effects of PLP were also observed from the increased expression levels of acinar cells are amylase -2.01, neurogenin-3-9.51, PDX-1- 23.6 and insulin-13.5 in group 3 compared to group 1. The specificity of PLP\u2019s response was confirmed by amino oxy acetic acid (AOAA), a specific PLP inhibitor. The increased amylase protein localization with PLP was confirmed by confocal microscopy. Insulin secretion efficiency of acinar cells was observed to be 6.13 folds higher at basal and 24.63 fold higher at stimulated levels in group3 compared to group1. Significance: Our results advocate the antioxidant and cytoprotective effects of PLP on the pancreatic acinar cell along with increased pancreatic marker expressions of amylase,PDX-1, neurogenin-3 and insulin proteins.', u'/manuscript/201608.0052/v1', [u'Nutrition'], [u'Dept of Biochemistry/Stem Cell Research, National Institute of Nutrition (ICMR), Jamai Osmania, Tarnaka, Hyderabad, India']]
[u'Curcumin Ameliorates Furazolidone Induced DNA Damage and Apoptosis in Human Hepatocyte L02 Cells via Inhibiting ROS Production and Mitochondrial Pathway', ['Chongshan Dai', 'Daowen Li', 'Lijing Gong', 'Xilong Xiao', 'Shusheng Tang'], u'August 2 2016', u'Furazolidone (FZD) is a synthetic nitrofuran with the antiprotozoal and antibacterial activity. The proper mechanism of FZD induced toxicity is still unclear. This study aimed to investigate the protective effect of curcumin on FZD induced oxidative stress, DNA injury and apoptosis in human hepatocyte L02 cells. The results showed that curcumin treatment significantly ameliorated FZD induced cytotoxicity, characterized by decreasing the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and malondialdehyde, as well as increasing superoxide dismutase, catalase activities and glutathione contents. Moreover, curcumin pretreatment significantly inhibited FZD induced the loss of mitochondrial membrane potential, the activation caspase-9 and -3 and apoptosis. Comet assay showed that curcumin attenuated FZD induced DNA injury in a dose-dependent manner. Correspondingly, curcumin markedly reversed the up-regulation of p53, Bax, caspase-9 and -3 mRNA expressions and the down-regulation of Bcl-2 mRNA (all p<0.05 or 0.01). These results reveal that curcumin protects against FZD induced oxidative stress, DNA injury and cell apoptosis via inhibiting oxidative stress and mitochondrial pathway, which may be attributed to ROS scavenging and anti-oxidative ability of curcumin. Importantly, our study highlights that curcumin may be a potential way to prevent FZD-mediated oxidative DNA injury and apoptosis in human or animals.', u'/manuscript/201608.0011/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], [u'College of Veterinary Medicine, China Agricultural University, 2 Yuanmingyuan West Road, Beijing 100193, China', u'Sport Science Research Center, Beijing Sport University, 48 Xinxi Road, Haidian District, Beijing100084, China']]
[u'Hypoxic Preconditioning of Human Cardiosphere-derived Cell Sheets Enhances Cellular Functions via Activation of the PI3K/Akt/mTOR/HIF-1a Pathway', ['Yuya Tanaka', 'Tohru Hosoyama', 'Akihito Mikamo', 'Hiroshi Kurazumi', 'Arata Nishimoto', 'Koji Ueno', 'Bungo Shirasawa', 'Kimikazu Hamano'], u'August 11 2016', u'Cell sheet technology is a promising therapeutic strategy for the treatment of ischemic diseases such as myocardial infarction. We recently developed a novel protocol, termed \u201chypoxic preconditioning,\u201d capable of augmenting the therapeutic efficacy of cell sheets. Following this protocol, the pro-angiogenic and anti-fibrotic activity of cell sheets were enhanced by brief incubation of cell sheets under hypoxic culture conditions. However, the precise molecular mechanism underlying the hypoxic preconditioning of cell sheets is unclear. In the present study, we examined signal transducers in cell sheets to identify those responsive to hypoxic preconditioning, using cardiosphere-derived cell (CDC) sheets. We initially tested whether sheet-like structures were suitable for hypoxic preconditioning by comparing them with individual cells. Hypoxic preconditioning was more effective in sheeted cells than in individual cells. Expression of hypoxia inducible factor-1\u03b1 (HIF-1\u03b1) and mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) were induced upon hypoxic preconditioning of cell sheets, as was the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt pathway. In addition, hypoxic preconditioning increased phosphorylation of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and heat shock protein 60 (HSP60) in CDC sheets. Our findings provide novel insights into the utility of hypoxic preconditioning in cell sheet-based technologies for the treatment of ischemic diseases.', u'/manuscript/201608.0124/v1', [u'Cell & Developmental Biology'], [u'Department of Surgery and Clinical Science, Yamaguchi University Graduate School of Medicine, 1-1-1 Minami-kogushi, Ube, Yamaguchi 755-8505, Japan', u'Center for Regenerative Medicine, Yamaguchi University Graduate School of Medicine, 1-1-1 Minami-kogushi, Ube, Yamaguchi 755-8505, Japan', u'Department of Surgery, Saiseikai Yamaguchi Hospital, 2-11 Midoricho, Yamaguchi, Yamaguchi 753-8517, Japan']]
[u'Assessment of in Vivo Oxidative Stress Biomarkers in Relation to Disease Progression and Cell\xa0Proliferation in Benign and Malignant Breast Diseases', ['Kanchan Karki', 'Deepti Pande', 'Reena Negi', 'Ranjana Khanna', 'H D Khanna'], u'August 10 2016', u'The present study was aimed to evaluate the levels of oxidative stress markers in breast diseases by measuring the 8-hydoxy-2-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), vitamin A, vitamin C, vitamin E and total antioxidant status (TAS) alterations in relation to cell proliferation activity and disease progression. Significant increases in the level of oxidative damage marker 8-OHdG and cell proliferation activity were observed in breast carcinoma patients in comparison to benign and normal controls, which were accompanied by significant decrease in non enzymatic antioxidants and TAS concentrations. 8-OHdG and cell proliferation level were negatively correlated with non enzymatic antioxidants viz., Vitamin A, Vitamin C, vitamin E level and total antioxidant activity. Altered levels of biomarkers of oxidative stress and cell proliferation activity amongst the malignant, benign and controls suggest a correlation of increased oxidative stress and cell proliferation activity in the progression of disease in breast carcinoma patients. Among the oxidative stress markers and cell proliferation index, decreased level of vitamin A, vitamin C, vitamin E, TAS and increased level of 8-OHdG, cell proliferation index emerged as best predicted biomarkers for subjects with malignancy and benign breast disease.', u'/manuscript/201608.0114/v1', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Department of Biophysics, Institute of Medical Sciences, Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi-221005, India', u'Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science, Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi-221005, India']]
[u'Batch Fermentation Options for High Titer Bioethanol Production from a SPORL Pretreated Douglas-fir Forest Residue without Detoxification', ['Mingyan Yang', 'Hairui Ji', 'J.Y. ZHU'], u'August 8 2016', u'This study evaluated batch fermentation modes, namely, separate hydrolysis and fermentation (SHF), Quasi-simultaneous saccharification and fermentation (Q-SSF), and simultaneous saccharification and fermentation (SSF), and fermentation conditions, i.e., enzyme and yeast loadings, nutrient supplementation and sterilization, on high titer bioethanol production from SPORL-pretreated Douglas-fir forest residue without detoxification. The result indicated Q-SSF and SSF were obviously superior to SHF operation in terms of ethanol yield. The enzyme loading showed a strong positive correlation between enzyme loading and the ethanol yield. The nutrient supplementation and sterility was not necessary for ethanol production from SPORL-pretreated Douglas-fir. The yeast loading showed no significant influence on the ethanol yield for typical SSF conditions. The terminal ethanol titer of 43.2 g/L, or 75.1% theoretical based on glucose, mannose, and xylose theoretical was achieved when SSF was conducted at the condition of following: whole slurry solids loading of 15%, enzyme loading of 20 FPU/g glucan, 1.8 g/kg (wet) yeast loading, without nutrition supplementation and sterilization, at 38\xb0C, on shake flask at 150 rpm for 96h. It is believed that with mechanical mixing, enzyme loading can be substantially reduced with affect ethanol yield by using a long fermentation time.', u'/manuscript/201608.0072/v1', [u'Biotechnology'], [u'School Environment Science Engineering, Chang\u2019an University, Xi\u2019an 710064, Chin', u'USDA Forest Service, Forest Products Laboratory, Madison, WI 53726, USA', u'Key Laboratory of Subsurface Hydrology and Ecological Effects in Arid Region, Ministry of Education, Chang\u2019an University, Xi\u2019an 710064, China', u'College of Life Science and Technology, Beijing University of Chemical Technology, Beijing 100029, China']]
[u'Arms Race between Enveloped Viruses and the Host ERAD Machinery', ['Dylan A. Frabutt', 'Yong-Hui Zheng'], u'August 4 2016', u'Enveloped viruses represent a significant category of pathogens that cause serious diseases in animals. These viruses express envelope glycoproteins that are singularly important during infection of host cells by mediating fusion between the viral envelope and host cell membranes. Despite low homology at protein levels, three classes of viral fusion proteins have, as of yet, been identified based on structural similarities. Their incorporation into viral particles is dependent upon their proper sub-cellular localization after being expressed and folded properly in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). However, viral protein expression can cause stress in the ER, and host cells respond to alleviate the ER stress in the form of the unfolded protein response (UPR); the effects of which have been observed potentiating or inhibiting viral infection. One important arm of UPR is to elevate the capacity of the ER-associated protein degradation (ERAD) pathway, which is comprised of host quality control machinery that ensures proper protein folding. In this review, we provide relevant details regarding viral envelope glycoproteins, UPR, ERAD, and their interactions in host cells.', u'/manuscript/201608.0043/v1', [u'Virology'], [u'Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI 48824, USA']]
[u'Prevalence, Characterization and Mycotoxin Production Ability of Fusarium species on Korean Adlay (Coix lacrymal-jobi L.) Seeds', ['Tae Jin An', 'Kyu Seop Shin', 'Narayan Chandra Paul', 'Young Guk Kim', 'Seon Woo Cha', 'Yu Seok Moon', 'Seung Hun Yu', 'Sang-Keun Oh'], u'August 4 2016', u'Adlay seed samples were collected from 3 adlay growing regions (Yeoncheon, Jeonnam and Eumseong regions) in Korea during 2012. Among all the samples collected, 400 seeds were tested for fungal occurrence by standard blotter and test tube agar methods and different taxonomic groups of fungal genera were detected. The most predominant fungal genera encountered were Fusarium, Phoma, Alternaria, Cladosporium, Curvularia, Cochliobolus and Leptosphaerulina. The occurrence of Fusarium species were 45.6% and based on the combined sequences of two protein coding genes, EF-1a, Beta-tubulin and phylogenetic analysis, 10 species were characterized as F. incarnatum (11.67%), F. kyushense (10.33%), F. fujikuroi (8.67%), F. concentricum (6.00%), F. asiaticum (5.67%), F. graminearum (1.67%), F. miscanthi (0.67%), F. polyphialidiom (0.33%), F. armeniacum (0.33%) and F. thapsinum (0.33%). The ability of these isolates to produce mycotoxins fumonisin (FUM) and zeralenone (ZEN) were tested by ELISA quantitative analysis method. The result revealed that fumonisin (FUM) was produced only by F. fujikuroi and zeralenone (ZEN) by F. asiaticum & F. graminearum. Mycotoxigenic species were then examined for their morphological characteristics to confirm their identity. Morphological observations of the species correlated well with their molecular identification and confirmed as F. asiaticum, F. fujikuroi and F. graminearum.', u'/manuscript/201608.0040/v1', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Herbal Crop Research, National Institute of Horticultural and Herbal Science (NIHHS), Eumseong, Chungbuk 27709, Korea', u'Department of Applied Biology, College of Agriculture & Life Sciences, Chungnam National University, Daejeon 34134, Korea', u'Bioenergy Crop Research Institute, National Institute of Crop Science, Rural Development Administration, Muan 58545, Korea', u'Laboratory of Mucosal Exposome and Biomodulation, Department of Biomedical Sciences, Pusan National University School of Medicine, Yangsan 50612, Korea']]
[u'Specificity in Legume-Rhizobia Symbioses', ['Mitchell Andrews', 'Morag E Andrews'], u'August 1 2016', u'The Leguminosae (legume family) is divided into three sub-families, the Caesalpiniodeae, Mimosoideae and Papilionoideae. Here, the literature on legume-rhizobia symbioses was reviewed, and genotypically characterised rhizobia related to the taxonomy of the legumes they were isolated from. Only data from field soils were considered. The objective of the work was to assess to what extent legume specificity for rhizobial symbiont is related to legume taxonomy. Bradyrhizobium spp. were the exclusive rhizobial symbionts of species in the Caesalpinioideae but data are limited. Where tested, species within the two Mimosoideae tribes, Ingeae and Mimoseae were nodulated by different rhizobial genera. Generally, Papilionoideae species with indeterminate nodules were promiscuous in relation to rhizobial symbionts but high specificity for rhizobial partners appears to hold at tribe level for the Fabeae (Rhizobium spp.), genus level for Medicago (Ensifer spp.), Cytisus (Bradyrhizobium spp.) and Lupinus (Bradyrhizobium spp.), and species level for Galega spp. (Neorhizobium galegeae), Hedysarum coronarium (Rhizobium sullae), Cicer arietinum (Mesorhizobium spp.) and New Zealand native Sophora spp. (Mesorhizobium spp.). High legume specificity for rhizobial symbionts was linked to specific rhizobial symbiosis genes. For Papilionoideae species with determinate nodules, the Dalbergieae were primarily nodulated by Bradyrhizobium but were promiscuous with respect to Bradyrhizobium spp. while those in the Desmodieae, Phaseoleae, Psoraleae and Loteae were promiscuous across different rhizobial genera. Possible advantages and disadvantages of high specificity or promiscuity are discussed.', u'/manuscript/201608.0005/v1', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Faculty of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Lincoln University, PO Box 84, Lincoln 7647, New Zealand']]
[u'Prokaryotic gene-family size correlations', ['Gon Carmi', 'Alexander Bolshoy'], u'July 29 2016', u'The existence of multiple copies of genes is a well-known phenomenon. A gene family is a set of sufficiently similar genes, formed by gene duplication. In earlier works conducted on limited number of completely sequenced and annotated genomes it was found that size of gene family and size of genome are positively correlated. Additionally, it was found that several atypical microbes deviated from the observed general trend. In this study, we reexamined these associations on a larger dataset consisting of 1484 prokaryotic genomes and using several ranking approaches. We applied ranking methods in such a way that genomes with lower number of paralogs would have lower rank. Until now only simple ranking methods were used; we applied the Kemeny optimal aggregation approach as well. Regression and correlation analysis were utilized in order to accurately quantify and characterize the relationships between measures of paralog indices and genome size. In addition, boxplot analysis was employed as a method for outlier detection. We found that, in general, all paralog indexes positively correlate with an increase of genome size. As expected, different groups of atypical prokaryotic genomes were found for different types of paralog quantities.', u'/manuscript/201607.0096/v1', [u'Other'], [u'Department of Evolutionary and Environmental Biology, University of Haifa, City Zip code, Israel; goncarmi@gmail.com']]
[u'Calorie Restriction Supplemented with Fish Oil Ameliorates Abnormal Metabolic Status in Middle-Aged Obese Women: An Open-Label, Parallel-Arm, Controlled Trial', ['Fasty Arum Utami', 'Hsiu-Chuan Lee', 'Chien-Tien Su', 'Shih-Yi Huang'], u'August 13 2016', u'The increasing prevalence of obesity and sedentary lifestyles has led to an increased incidence of metabolic syndrome (MetS) worldwide. In Taiwan, middle-aged women are at a greater risk of MetS, type 2 diabetes, and cardiovascular disease than men are because they have more subcutaneous fat and larger waist circumferences compared to men with equal visceral fat levels. This study investigated the effects of calorie restriction supplemented with fish oil (CRF) in middle-aged women with MetS. For 12 weeks, 75 eligible participants were randomly assigned either calorie restriction (CR) or CRF. Both dietary intervention groups were further divided into two age groups: \u226445 and >45 years. The changes in MetS severity, inflammatory status, iron status, and red blood cell fatty acid profile were evaluated. Seventy-one participants completed the trial. Both dietary interventions significantly ameliorated MetS and improved the participants\u2019 inflammatory status. CR significantly increased total iron binding capacity, whereas CRF increased hepcidin levels. Furthermore, CRF significantly increased the n-6/n-3 and arachidonic acid/docosahexaenoic acid ratios. In conclusion, CR and CRF improved the anthropometric and MetS characteristics of early-middle aged women, including body weight, blood glucose levels, triglyceride levels, as well as the scores for the homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance and quantitative insulin sensitivity cheque index. Dietary intervention was more effective in >45-year-old women than \u226445-year-old women.', u'/manuscript/201608.0133/v1', [u'Nutrition'], [u'School of Nutrition and Health Sciences, Taipei Medical University, 250 Wu-Xing Street, Taipei 110, Taiwan', u'School of Public Health, Taipei Medical University, Taipei 110, Taiwan', u'Graduate Institute of Metabolism and Obesity Science, Taipei Medical University, Taipei 110, Taiwan']]
[u'Quality of Life and Poor Oral Health: A Comparison of Postmenopausal Women', ['Kristin A. Williams', 'Hebba Shamia', 'Christine DeBaz', 'Leena Palomo'], u'August 13 2016', u'Interrelationships between traditional dental variables are becoming more evident in far reaching aspects of life such as psychosocial interaction, self-esteem, overall health and even occupational performance.  This study compares quality of life (QoL) in postmenopausal women (PMW) with poor oral health (POH) with QoL in PMW with good oral health. \r\n200 randomly recruited PMW received a dental evaluation and completed Utian Quality of Life Survey.  The participants were divided into POH and healthy groups based on dental exam.  Mean scores were calculated for each QoL item, domain and the overall summary score. For each of the four parameters for periodontitis diagnosis, periodontitis patients\u2019 QoL outcomes were compared to those of healthy patients using T-test with threshold of significance at p<0.05. QoL in all fields measured were significantly poorer in the POH compared to the healthy patients, occupational (19.95\xb15.35vs. 27.56\xb16.13), health (18.02\xb18.23 vs. 26.59 \xb16.45), emotional (15.68\xb110.22vs. 21.15\xb19.15), sexual (6.2\xb15.98vs. 10.02\xb15.35), and total score (60.21\xb125.85 vs. 84.26\xb122.35). This study finds that PMW with POH, report significantly poorer quality of life. Clinicians caring for PMW should be aware of that oral health impacts QoL and make appropriate referral decisions for patients\u2019 dental care. \r\n\r\nKeywords: Quality of Life, Oral Health, Post-menopause, \r\n                  Women', u'/manuscript/201608.0122/v1', [u'Other'], [u'Department of Community Dentistry, School of Dental Medicine, Case Western Reserve University, 2124 Cornell Road, Cleveland, OH 44106, USA', u'Department of Periodontics, School of Dental Medicine, Case Western Reserve University, 2124 Cornell Road, Cleveland, OH 44106, USA']]
[u'Case-Based Study of Metrics Derived from Instrumented Fall Risk Assessment Tests', ['Anabela Martins', 'Joana Silva', 'Antonio Santos', 'Joao Madureira', 'Carlos Alcobia', 'Luis Ferreira', 'Pedro Mendes', 'Claudia Tonelo', 'Catarina Silva', 'Daniela Baltazar', 'Ines Sousa'], u'August 12 2016', u'Purpose: National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) has recently published quality standards for assessment of fall risk and preventing further falls. According to the standards, multifactorial fall risk assessments should include: identification of falls history\u037e analysis of gait, balance, mobility and muscle strength, among other factors. Despite being based on subjective analysis or simple timing and not being multifactorial, physiotherapists and physicians quite often use these tests as reference scales to differentiate between lower and higher risk of falling. Instrumented TUG has been recently reported to provide important additional information to the overall score. Objective: To explore a case-based approach of fall risk assessment to identify the most relevant and informative risk factors that in combination could better define a person risk profile. Materials and Methods: A multifactorial assessment of fall risk through questionnaires, standard functional tests, tests instrumented with inertial sensors, and force platforms has been studied within a group aged 55-80 years old. Different fall risk factors and fall risk assessment methods were analyzed in a case-based descriptive study. Results & Discussion: Subjects at higher risk of falling were identified based on their detailed profiles. A set of features were obtained from the instrumented standard tests differing significantly between subjects presenting higher or lower fall risk. Therefore, instrumenting conventional tests with wearables containing inertial sensors and force platforms gives more detailed and quantitative insights. This information can be used to better define and tailor fall prevention exercises and to improve the follow-up of the evolution of the subject.', u'/manuscript/201608.0132/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], [u'ESTeSC Coimbra Health School, Physiotherapy Department, Coimbra 3046-854, Portugal', u'Fraunhofer Portugal AICOS, Porto 4200-135, Portugal', u'Sensing Future Technologies, Coimbra 3030-199, Portugal']]
[u'Vorinostat Pretreatment Enhanced Ciprofloxacin-Induced Antibacterial Activity', ['Majed M. Masadeh', 'Karem H. Alzoubi', 'Sayer I. Al-azzam', 'Ahlam M. Al-buhairan'], u'August 13 2016', u'The mechanism of ciprofloxacin action involves interference with transcription and replication of bacterial DNA, which results in elevated oxidative stress, and bacterial cell death. Vorinostat was shown to induce oxidative DNA damage. In the current work, the possibility for interactive effect of vorinotat on ciprofloxacin-induced cytotoxicity against a number of reference bacteria was investigated. Standard bacterial strains were Escherichia coli ATCC 35218, Staphylococcus aureus ATCC29213, Pseudomonas aeruginosa ATCC 9027, Staphylococcus epidermidis ATCC 12228, Acinetobacter baumannii ATCC 17978, Proteus mirabilis ATCC 12459, Klebsiella pneumoniae ATCC 13883, methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) (ATCC 43300), and Streptococcus pneumoniae (ATCC 25923). The antibacterial activity of ciprofloxacin with or without pretreatment of bacterial cells by vorinostat was examined using disc diffusion procedure and determination of the minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) and zones of inhibition of bacterial growth. All tested bacterial strains showed sensitivity to ciprofloxacin. When pretreated with vorinostat, significantly larger zones of inhibition and smaller MIC values were observed in all bacterial strains compared ciprofloxacin alone. As a conclusion, current results showed the possible agonistic properties for vorinostat when it is used together with ciprofloxacin. Future research will be focus on molecular mechanisms possible for such interactive effect.', u'/manuscript/201608.0141/v1', [u'Other'], [u'Department of Pharmaceutical Technology, Jordan University of Science and Technology, Irbid 22110, Jordan', u'Department of Clinical Pharmacy, Jordan University of Science and Technology, Irbid 22110, Jordan', u'College of applied Medical Sciences, King Saud University, Riyadh 12372, Saudi Arabia']]
[u'Vegetation Structure and Carbon Stocks of Two Protected Areas Within the South-Sudanian Savannas of Burkina Faso, West Africa', ['Mohammad Qasim', 'Stefan Porembski', 'Dietmar Sattler', 'Katharina Stein', 'Adjima Thiombiano', 'Andre Lindner'], u'August 15 2016', u'Savannas and adjacent vegetation types like gallery forests are highly valuable ecosystems contributing to several ecosystem services including carbon budgeting. Financial mechanisms such as REDD+ have provided an opportunity for developing countries to alleviate poverty through conservation of its forestry resources. For availing this opportunity carbon stock assessments are essential. Therefore, a research study at two protected areas i.e. Nazinga Game Ranch and Bontioli Nature Reserve, in Burkina Faso was conducted with the objective of assessing carbon Mg C ha-1 in aboveground biomass (AGB)dry of trees in different formations of the south-sudanian savanna in Burkina Faso, West Africa. Similarly analysis of various vegetation parameters was also conducted to understand the overall vegetation structure of these two protected areas. For estimating AGBdry, existing allometric equation for dry tropical woody vegetation types was used. The Importance Value Index (IVI) and Family Importance Value (FIV) were estimated through standard procedures. Various linear and non-linear regression analyses were conducted to test the relationships between carbon and other parameters such as DBH, height and basal area (BA). The results showed that both sites collectively contain mean carbon of 3.41 \xb1 4.98 Mg C ha-1. Amongst different vegetation types, gallery forests recorded the highest mean carbon of 9.38 \xb1 6.90 Mg C ha-1. The highest IVI of 115.56 at Nazinga Game Ranch was recorded for Anogeissus leiocarpa. Similarly, highest IVI of 98.59 was recorded for Mitragyna inermis at Bontioli Nature Reserve. The highest FIV was recorded for Combretaceae for both of the sites. To our knowledge, this was the first study conducted to assess the carbon stocks at the two protected areas in southern Burkina Faso. The study therefore was an attempt for addressing the knowledge gap particularly on carbon stocks of protected savannas. It could serve as a baseline for carbon stocks for future initiatives such as payment for environmental services and REDD+ at these areas.', u'/manuscript/201608.0154/v1', [u'Ecology'], [u'Institute of International Forestry and Forest Products, Technische Universit\xe4t Dresden, Pienner Strasse 7, 01737 Tharandt, Germany', u'Department of Botany, Institute of Biological Sciences, University of Rostock, Wismarsche Str. 8, 18051 Rostock, Germany', u'Department of Physical Geography and Geo-Ecology, Institute for Geography, University of Leipzig, Johannisallee 19a, 04103 Leipzig, Germany', u'Department of Animal Ecology and Tropical Biology, University of Wuerzburg, Josef-Martin-Weg 52, 97074 Wuerzburg, Germany', u'Laboratoire de Biologie et Ecologie V\xe9g\xe9tales, Universit\xe9 de Ouagadougou, UFR/SVT, 03 BP 7021 Ouagadougou 03, Burkina Faso', u'Centre for International Postgraduate Studies of Environmental Management \u2013 CIPSEM, Technische Universit\xe4t Dresden, Zellescher Weg 41c, 01207 Dresden, Germany']]
[u'Toxins Polypeptide That Interfere with the Flow of Calcium (Channels and Receptors Intra and Extra-Cellular)', ['Joao Silveira', 'Natacha Alves', 'Isaac Neto', 'Janaina Evangelista', 'Helena Monteiro', 'Paula Costa'], u'August 15 2016', u'The voltage-dependent calcium channels (Cav) are a family of multigene channel that plays an essential role in regulating a variety of cellular functions. These channels are categorized as type L-, N-, P / Q-, R- or T, based on their electrophysiological and pharmacological properties. Activation of these channels and Ca2 + entry is required in many physiological processes such as muscle contraction and release of hormones and neurotransmitters, and many others, for example in the contraction mechanism, and vascular relaxation.', u'/manuscript/201608.0150/v1', [u'Animal Sciences & Zoology'], [u'Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Federal University of Ceara, Fortaleza, Ceara, Brazil', u'Postgraduate Program in Veterinary Sciences, Faculty of Veterinary, State University of Ceara, Fortaleza, Ceara, Brazil']]
[u'Cranberries and Cancer: An Update of Preclinical Studies Evaluating the Cancer Inhibitory Potential of Cranberry and Cranberry Derived Constituents', ['Katherine M. Weh', 'Jennifer Clarke', 'Laura A. Kresty'], u'August 16 2016', u'Cranberries are rich in bioactive constituents reported to influence a variety of health benefits, ranging from improved immune function and decreased infections to reduced cardiovascular disease and more recently cancer inhibition. A review of cranberry research targeting cancer revealed positive effects of cranberries or cranberry derived constituents against 17 different cancers utilizing a variety of in vitro techniques; whereas, in vivo studies supported the inhibitory action of cranberries toward cancers of the esophagus, stomach, colon, bladder, prostate, glioblastoma and lymphoma. Mechanisms of cranberry-linked cancer inhibition include cellular death induction via apoptosis, necrosis and autophagy; reduction of cellular proliferation; alterations in reactive oxygen species; and modification of cytokine and signal transduction pathways. Given the emerging positive preclinical effects of cranberries, future clinical directions targeting cancer or premalignancy will be considered', u'/manuscript/201608.0160/v1', [u'Nutrition'], [u'Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology and Oncology, Medical College of Wisconsin, 8701 Watertown Plank Road, Milwaukee, WI 53226, USA', u'Department of Food Science and Technology, University of Nebraska, 256 Food Innovation Complex, Lincoln, NE 68588-6205, USA', u'Department of Statistics, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, NE 68583, USA', u'Quantitative Life Sciences Initiative, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, NE 68583, USA']]
[u'Pueraria mirifica Exerts Estrogenic Effect and Promotes Mammary and Endometrial', ['Anna Kakehashi', 'Midori Yoshida', 'Yoshiyuki Tago', 'Naomi Ishii', 'Min Gi', 'Hideki Wanibuchi'], u'August 17 2016', u'Pueraria mirifica (PM) is a plant which dried and powdered tuberous root is now widely used as a rejuvenating herb to promote youthfulness in both men and women. In this study, we investigated the modifying effects of PM at various doses on mammary and endometrial carcinogenesis in female Donryu rats. Firstly, PM administered to ovariectomized Donryu rats at doses of 0.03, 0.3 and 3% in phytoestrogen-low diet for 2 weeks induced the significant increases of uterus weight. Secondly, 4-week PM application to non-operated rats at a dose of 3% after the 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA) initiation, resulted in significant elevation of cell proliferation in the mammary glands. In the third experiment, postpubertal administration of 0.3% (200 mg/kg b.w./day) PM to 5-week-old non-operated animals for 36 weeks following the initiation of mammary and endometrial carcinogenesis with DMBA and N-ethyl-N\u2032-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (ENNG), respectively, caused significant increases of mammary adenocarcinoma incidence and multiplicity. A trend for increase of uterine adenocarcinomas and a significant increase of endometrial atypical hyperplasia multiplicity was observed at 0.3% PM. Furthermore, PM at doses of 0.3 and mostly 1% induced dilatation, hemorrhage and inflammation of the uterine wall. In conclusion, the postpubertal long-term PM administration to Donryu rats exerted estrogenic effect in the mammary gland and uterus, and at a dose of 200 mg/kg b.w./day promoted carcinogenesis initiated by DMBA and ENNG.', u'/manuscript/201608.0165/v1', [u'Oncology & Oncogenics'], [u'Department of Molecular Pathology, Osaka City University Graduate School of Medicine,  1-4-3 Asahi-machi, Abeno-ku, Osaka 545-8585, Japan', u'Division of Pathology, Biological Safety Research Center, National Institute of Health Sciences, Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, 1-18-1 Kamiyoga, Setagaya-ku, Tokyo 158-8501, Japan']]
[u'Assessment of Vitamin B12 in Patients with Coronary Tortuosity', ['Levent Cerit', 'Hatice Kemal', 'Aziz Gunsel', 'Murat Uncu', 'Zeynep Cerit', 'Kamil Gulsen', 'Hamza Duygu'], u'August 17 2016', u'Background: Vitamin B 12 deficiency has been implicated in endothelial dysfunction and cardiovascular disease via hyperhomocysteinemia. Coronary tortuosity (CorT) is a common coronary angiography finding. The etiology, clinical implication and long term prognosis are still not well clarified. This study was conducted with the aim to evaluate the relationship between CorT and vitamin B12. Subjects and Method: The medical records of consecutive patients, who underwent coronary angiography, were retrospectively reviewed. The study group consisted of 1624 patients. Taking into consideration the inclusion criteria, 212 patients with CorT and 210 patients with normal coronary angiographies (control group) were included in the study. Vitamin B12, other biochemical parameters, clinical and echocardiographic parameters, and CorT score were evaluated in all patients. CorT is defined as fixed 3 bends during both systole and diastole, with each bend \u226545 \xb0. Results: Patients with CorT had higher prevalence of older, female gender, hypertension, current smoking. Vitamin B12 was significantly decreased in patient with CorT (134.7\xb147.8 vs 239.6\xb153.8 p<0.001). On multivariate analysis age, female gender, hypertension, diabetes mellitus and vitamin B12 were independent predictors for CorT (OR 1.56; 95% CI: 1.247\u20131.962; p < 0.001, OR 1.628; 95% CI: 1.376-2.048; p<0.001, OR 1.865; 95% CI: 1.387-2.695; p<0.001, OR 1.362; 95% CI: 1.184-1.726; p<0.001, OR 1.862; 95% CI: 1.486-2.674; p<0.001, respectively). Conclusion: In our study, we have founded a significant relationship between vitamin B12 deficiency and CorT.', u'/manuscript/201608.0164/v1', [u'Cardiology'], [u'Department of Cardiology, Near East University Hospital, 99138 Nicosia, Cyprus', u'Department of Biochemistry, Near East University Hospital, 99138 Nicosia, Cyprus', u'Department of Pediatrics, Near East University Hospital, 99138 Nicosia, Cyprus']]
[u'Characterization of Chemically-Induced Bacterial Ghosts (BGs) Using Sodium Hydroxide-Induced Vibrio parahaemolyticus Ghosts (VPGs)', ['Hyun Jung Park', 'Sung Oh', 'Nagarajan Vinod', 'Seongmi Ji', 'Han Byul Noh', 'Jung Mo Koo', 'Su Hyeong Lee', 'Sei Chang Kim', 'Ki-Sung Lee', 'Chang Won Choi'], u'August 17 2016', u'Acellular bacterial ghosts (BGs) are empty non-living bacterial cell envelopes, commonly generated by controlled expression of the cloned lysis gene E of bacteriophage PhiX174. In this study, Vibrio parahaemolyticus ghosts (VPGs) were generated by chemically induced lysis and the method is based on minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of sodium hydroxide (NaOH), acetic acid, boric acid, citric acid, maleic acid, hydrochloric acid and sulfuric acid. The MIC values of the respective chemicals were 3.125, 6.25, < 50.0, 25.0, 6.25, 1.56 and 0.781 mg/ml. Except boric acid, the lysis efficiency was reached more than 99.99% at 5 min after treatment of all chemicals. Among those chemicals, NaOH-induced VPGs showed completely DNA-free that was confirmed by quantitative real-time PCR. Besides, lipopolysaccharides (LPS) extracted from the NaOH-induced VPGs showed no distinctive band on SDS-PAGE gel after silver staining. On the other hand, LPS extracted from wild-type bacterial cells as well as the organic acids-induced VPGs showed triple major bands and LPS extracted from the inorganic acids-induced VPGs showed double bands. It suggests that some surface structures in LPS of the NaOH-induced VPGs may be lost, weakened or modified by the MIC of NaOH. Nevertheless, Limulus amoebocyte lysate assay revealed that there is no significant difference in endotoxic activity between the NaOH-induced VPGs and wild-type bacterial cells. Macrophages exposed to the NaOH-induced VPGs at 0.5 \xd7 106 CFU/mL showed cell viability of 97.9%, however the MIC of NaOH did not reduce the cytotoxic effect of wild-type bacterial cells. Like Escherichia coli LPS, the NaOH-induced VPGs are an excellent activator of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1\u03b2 and iNOS), anti-inflammatory cytokine (IL-10) and dual activities (IL-6) in the stimulated macrophage cells. On the other hand, the induction of TNF-\u03b1 mRNA was remarkable in the macrophages exposed with wild-type cells. Scanning electron microscopy showed the formation of trans-membrane lysis tunnel structures in the NaOH-induced VPGs. SDS-PAGE and agarose gel electrophoresis also confirmed that cytoplasmic proteins and genomic DNA released from the VPGs to culture medium through the lysis tunnel structures. Taken together, all these results indicated that the NaOH-induced VPGs show the potency of safe, economical and effective inactivated bacterial vaccine candidate.', u'/manuscript/201608.0162/v1', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Biology & Medicinal Science, Pai Chai University, Daejeon 35345, Korea', u'CheongShim International Academy, Gapyeong-gun, Gyeonggi-do 12461, Korea']]
[u'Effects of 5-Aza-2\u2019 Deoxycytidine on Proliferation and Differentiation of Embryonic Chick Caudal Region Chondrocytes in Culture', ['Samina Hyder Haq'], u'August 19 2016', u'DNA methylation is one of the epigenetic mechanisms which have been implicated in cellular differentiation, ageing and disease development. The effect of hypomethylating drug 5-aza-2\u2019 deoxycytidine (5-aza dC) on the biosynthetic profile of caudal region chondrocytes from chick sternum was studied in detail. The chondrocytes in culture were treated with varying doses of 5-aza dC for 48h and maintained subsequently without the treatment and harvested at selected time points for analysis of growth and differentiation status. 15\xb5g/ml of 5-aza dC showed optimum Concentration at which there was a significant increase in DNA synthesis and RNA synthesis as per cell basis. There was also a significant increase in total protein synthesis and collagen synthesis as per cell basis at this concentration. This optimal concentration also showed to up regulate the gene expression of Type X collagen and alkaline phosphatase, which are the marker of hypertrophic chondrocyte expression. These results further support the notion that methylation is the major epigenetic factor controlling the differentiation and maturation of chondrocytes', u'/manuscript/201608.0176/v1', [u'Other'], [u'Department of Biochemistry, College of Science, King Saud University, Riyadh P.O. 11362, Saudi Arabia']]
[u'Information Relevant to the Understanding and Conservation of the Ivory-Billed Woodpecker (Campephilus principalis)', ['Michael Collins'], u'August 18 2016', u'A failure to recognize that the Ivory-billed Woodpecker (Campephilus principalis) is an exceptional case that calls for a different approach has impeded progress in the understanding and conservation of this iconic species. Due to a combination of factors related to behavior and habitat, the expected waiting time for obtaining a clear photo of an Ivory-billed Woodpecker must be several orders of magnitude greater than it would be for a more typical species of comparable rarity. It seems unlikely that such evidence will be obtained in time to make a difference in the conservation of this species, but there is no logical justification for insisting upon a particular type of evidence. Three videos that were obtained during encounters with birds that were identified in the field as Ivory-billed Woodpeckers show flights, behaviors, field marks, and other characteristics that are consistent with this species but do not seem to be consistent with any other species of the region.', u'/manuscript/201608.0171/v1', [u'Animal Sciences & Zoology'], [u'Department of Mathematical Sciences, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, NY 12180, USA']]
[u'Synergistic Effects of Trimethoprim with Flos Lonicerae on Antibacterial Activity and Dose-Effect Relationship in Vitro', ['Yizhe Cui', 'Qiuju Wang', 'Xin Wang'], u'August 19 2016', u'Observe the synergistic effect and dose-effect relationship of Trimethoprim (TMP) on bactericidal activity with Flos Lonicerae in vitro. Microamount chessboard dilution method was conducted to determine the minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) of Trimethoprim, Flos Lonicerae, as well as the combination of Trimethoprim and Flos Lonicerae separately against Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli in vitro and Salmonella. The pour plate count method was used to determine the combined bactericidal activity of Flos Lonicerae combined with Different concentrations TMP. The results showed that the MIC values of the combination of Flos Lonicerae with TMP was much less than the MIC values of the independent use of Flos Lonicerae or TMP, The FIC values of the combination of Flos Lonicerae with TMP were between 0.5 and 1, there was additive effect between them. The bactericidal rates were fitted with least square method, the 95% confidence intervals of the optimal blending quantity about the combination of Flos Lonicerae with TMP on the test organisms were 231\u03bcg\xb7mL-1-249\u03bcg\xb7mL-1, 237\u03bcg\xb7mL-1-259\u03bcg\xb7mL-1, and 235 -259\u03bcg\xb7mL-1', u'/manuscript/201608.0175/v1', [u'Veterinary Medicine'], [u'College of Animal Science and Veterinary Medicine, Heilongjiang Bayi Agricultural University,  No. 2 Xinyang Road, New Development District, Daqing 163319, China']]
[u'Demands of Geometry on Color Vision', ['Dale Purves', 'Chidambaram Yegappan'], u'August 23 2016', u'The reasons for the circular sense of human color perception generated by two sorts of color opponent neurons and three cone types are not well understood. Here we use geometrical analysis to examine the hypothesis that opponency, the recursive nature of color perception, and trichromacy arise as the most efficient ways of distinguishing spectrally different points on a plane using a minimum of color classes and receptor types.', u'/manuscript/201608.0192/v1', [u'Physiology'], [u'Neuroscience and Behavioral Disorders Program, Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School Singapore, 8 College Road, Singapore 169857, Singapore', u'Department of Neurobiology, Research Drive, Duke University Medical Center, Durham,  NC 27710, USA', u'Duke Institute for Brain Sciences, Duke University, Durham, NC 27708, USA']]
[u'Psychosocial Impact of Assistive Technologies for Mobility and Their Implications for Active Ageing', ['Anabela Martins', 'Joao Pinheiro', 'Beatriz Farias', 'Jeffrey Jutai'], u'August 23 2016', u'Active ageing is defined as the process of optimizing opportunities for physical, social and mental health to enable older people to take an active part in society without discrimination and to enjoy an independent and good quality of life. The World Health Organization assumed this as a process for increasing and maintaining an individual\u2019s participation in activities to enhance his/her quality of life. In this survey, the authors addressed the following question: \u201cIs assistive technology (AT) for mobility contributing to enhancement of lifelong capacity and performance?\u201d. From June 2015 until February 2016, 96 community dwelling adults, AT users for mobility (powered wheelchairs, manual wheelchairs, lower limb prostheses, walkers, crutches and canes), aged 45-97, mean 67.02 +/- 14.24 years old, 56.3% female, were interviewed using the Psychosocial Impact of Assistive Devices Scale (P-PIADS), the Activities and Participation Profile related to Mobility (APPM) and demographics, clinical and questions about AT use and training. The participants\u2019 profiles revealed moderate limitation and restrictions in participation, measured by the APPM (2.03). Most participants showed positive impact of AT; average scores obtained from the P-PIADS subscales were: Self-esteem 0.62, Competency 1.11 and Adaptability 1.10. P-PIADS total was 0.96, with the powered wheelchair users scoring the highest (1.53) and the walker users scoring the lowest (0.73). All subscales and P-PIADS total were positively correlated with the activities and participation profile. There was no relation between age and the psychosocial impact of AT or activities and participation profile. These results encourage the authors to follow these participants up for a lifelong intervention. To accomplish that aim, currently, the protocol is implemented at the AT prescribing centers in Coimbra, Portugal in order to assess the impact of AT on participation in society, one of the domains of the Active Ageing Index, a new analytical tool to help policy makers in developing policies for active and healthy ageing.\xa0', u'/manuscript/201608.0199/v1', [u'Other'], [u'IPC ESTeSC Coimbra Health School, Physiotherapy Department, Coimbra, Portugal', u'Faculty of Medicine, University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal', u'Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Ottawa, and Bruy\xe8re Research Institute Canada']]
[u'Current Understanding on Tail Regeneration in Green Anoles (Anolis carolinensis)', ['Zulkar Nain', 'Md Ariful Islam', 'Sadrul Hasan Chowdhury', 'Sadia Afroza'], u'August 23 2016', u'Regeneration of lost tail is of great importance to lizards. Anolis carolinensis, a green lizard, is capable of regenerating its tail efficiently after autotomy. Hence, it is considered as a model organism in regeneration study. A. carolinensis shed its tail in order to distract the predator\u2019s attention and thus makes a way to escape. Restoring of the amputated tail takes several days and the mechanism is currently clearly understood. Although save its life, tail regeneration is associated with the impairment of several vital functions in Anoles. In addition, various differences have been observed between original and regenerated tail in terms of mechanism and structure. To date, very little work has been conducted on tail autotomy and regeneration at molecular and genetic level. The genes responsible for regeneration in anoles are identified recently. These genes are evolutionarily conserved through all tetrapod vertebrates. They are, however, in a state of \u2018switched-off\u2019 in other vertebrates including humans. Consequently, a throughout study of these so called \u2018switched-off\u2019 genes may provide a way of restoring lost organs in human, and thus could revolutionize the modern medical science.', u'/manuscript/201608.0195/v1', [u'Cell & Developmental Biology'], [u'Department of Biotechnology and Genetic Engineering, Faculty of Applied Science and Technology, Islamic University, Kushtia 7003, Bangladesh']]
[u'Molecular Cloning and Expression Analysis of COX II from Sitophilus zeamais, a Potential Action Site of AITC', ['Changliang Hou', 'Jingbo Wang', 'Hua Wu', 'Jiayu Liu', 'Zhiqing Ma', 'Juntao Feng', 'Xing Zhang'], u'August 25 2016', u'COX II containing a dual core CuA active site is one of the three core subunits of mitochondrial Cco, which plays a significant role in the physiological process. In this report, the full-length cDNA of COX\u2161 gene was cloned from Sitophilus zeamais, which had an ORF of 684 bp encoding 227 amino acids residues. The predicted COX\u2161 protein had a molecular mass of 26.2 kDa with pI value of 6.37, and multiple sequence alignment and phylogenetic analysis indicated that Sitophilus zeamais COX\u2161 had high sequence identity 78.51% with the COX\u2161 of other insect species, especially similarity to sitophilus oryzae. This gene was subcloned into the prokaryotic expression vector pET-32a, and induced by IPTG in E.coli Transetta (DE3) expression system. Finally the COX\u2161 with 6-His tag was purified using affinity chromatography with Ni2+-NTA agarose. WB showed the recombinant COX\u2161 was about 44 kD, and the concentration of fusion protein was 50\u03bcg/mL. UV-spectrophotometer and infrared spectrometer analysis showed that recombinant COX\u2161 could catalyze the oxidation of substrate Cytc, and influenced by AITC. It was found that AITC could form a hydrophobic region with COX\u2161 protein via molecular docking, besides, a sulfur atom of AITC structure could form a length of 2.9 \xc5 hydrogen bond with Leu-31. These results will provide valuable information for elucidating the role of COX\u2161 in Sitophilus zeamais responses to AITC, meanwhile, it will helpful to carry out a point mutation in AITC binding sites for the future research.', u'/manuscript/201608.0203/v1', [u'Entomology'], [u'Research and Development Centre of Biorational Pesticides, Northwest Agriculture and Forestry University, Yangling 712100, China', u'Research Center of Biopesticide Technology and Engineering, Yangling 712100, China']]
[u'Nitrogen Removal in a Horizontal Subsurface Flow Constructed Wetland Estimated Using the First-Order Kinetic Model', ['Lijuan Cui', 'Wei Li', 'Yaqiong Zhang', 'Jiaming Wei', 'Yinru Lei', 'Manyin Zhang', 'Xu Pan', 'Xinsheng Zhao', 'Kai Li', 'Wu Ma'], u'August 25 2016', u"We monitored the water quality and hydrological conditions of a horizontal subsurface constructed wetland (HSSF-CW) in Beijing, China, for 2 years. We simulated the area rate constant and the temperature coefficient with the first-order kinetic model. We examined the relationships between the nitrogen (N) removal rate, N load, seasonal variations in the N removal rate, and environmental factors, such as the area rate constant, temperature, and dissolved oxygen (DO). The effluent ammonia (NH4+-N) and nitrate (NO3\u2212-N) concentrations were significantly lower than the influent concentrations (p<0.01, n=38). The NO3\u2212-N load was significantly correlated with the removal rate (R2=0.9566, p<0.01), but the NH4+-N load was not correlated with the removal rate (R2=0.0187, p>0.01). The area rate constants of NO3\u2212-N and NH4+-N at 20 \xb0C were 27.01\xb126.49 and 16.63\xb110.58 m\u2219yr\u22121, respectively. The temperature coefficients for NO3\u2212-N and NH4+-N were estimated at 1.0042 and 0.9604, respectively. The area rate constants for NO3\u2212-N and NH4+-N were not correlated with temperature (p>0.01). The NO3\u2212-N area rate constant was correlated with the corresponding load (R2=0.9625, p<0.01). The NH4+-N area rate was correlated with DO (R2=0.6922, p<0.01), suggesting that the factors that influenced the N removal rate in this wetland met Liebig's law of the minimum.", u'/manuscript/201608.0205/v1', [u'Ecology'], [u'Institute of wetland research, Chinese academy of forestry, Beijing 100091, China', u'Beijing Hanshiqiao National Wetland Ecosystem Research Station, Beijing 101399, China', u'The Beijing Key Laboratory of Wetland Ecological Function and Restoration, Beijing 100091, China', u'School of Natural Resources, West Virginia University, Morgantown, WV 26506, USA']]
[u'Experimental Dissection of Metalloproteinase Inhibition-Mediated and Toxic Effects of Phenanthroline on Zebrafish Development.', ['Tonya R. Ellis', 'Bryan D. Crawford'], u'August 26 2016', u'Metalloproteinases are zinc-dependent endopeptidases that function as primary effectors of tissue remodelling, cell-signalling, and many other roles. Their regulation is ferociously complex, and is exquisitely sensitive to their molecular milieu, making in vivo studies challenging. Phenanthroline (PhN) is an inexpensive, broad-spectrum inhibitor of metalloproteinases that functions by chelating the catalytic zinc ion, however its use in vivo has been limited due to suspected off-target effects. PhN is very similar in structure to phenanthrene (Phe), a well-studied poly aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) known to cause toxicity in aquatic animals by activating the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR). We show that zebrafish are more sensitive to PhN than Phe, and that PhN causes a superset of the effects caused by Phe. Morpholino knock-down of the AhR rescues the effects of PhN that are shared with Phe, suggesting these are due to PAH toxicity. The effects of PhN that are not shared with Phe (specifically disruption of neural crest development and angiogenesis) involve processes known to depend on metalloproteinase activity. Furthermore these PhN-specific effects are not rescued by AhR knock-down, suggesting that these are bona fide effects of metalloproteinase inhibition, and that PhN can be used as a broad spectrum metalloproteinase inhibitor for studies with zebrafish in vivo.', u'/manuscript/201608.0211/v1', [u'Cell & Developmental Biology'], [u'Department of Biology, University of New Brunswick, Fredericton, NB E3B 5A3, Canada']]
[u'Platycodon grandiflorus Root Extract Attenuateds Body Fat Mass, Hepatic Steatosis and Insulin Resistance through the Interplay between the Liver and Adipose Tissue', ['Ye Jin Kim', 'Ji-Young Choi', 'Ri Ryu', 'Jeonhyeon Lee', 'Su-Jung Cho', 'Eun-Young Kwon', 'Mi-Kyung Lee', 'Kwang-Hyeon Liu', 'Yu Rina', 'Mi-Kyung Sung', 'Myung-Sook Choi'], u'August 27 2016', u'The Platycodon grandiflorus root, one of Korean medicinal foods, is well known to have beneficial effects on obesity and diabetes. In this study, we demonstrated the metabolic effects of P. grandiflorus root ethanol extract (PGE), which is rich in platycodins, on diet-induced obesity. C57BL/6J mice (4-week-old males) were fed a normal diet (16.58% of kilocalories from fat), high-fat diet (HFD, 60% of kilocalories from fat), and HFD supplemented with 5% (w/w) of PGE. In the HFD-fed mice, PGE markedly suppressed the body weight gain and white fat mass to normal control level, with simultaneous increase in the expression of thermogenic genes (such as SIRT1, PPAR\u03b1, PGC-1\u03b1, and UCP1), that accompanied changes in fatty acid oxidation (FAO) and energy expenditure. Also, PGE improved insulin sensitivity through activation of the PPAR\u03b3 expression, which upregulates adiponectin while decreasing leptin gene expression in adipocytes. Furthermore, PGE improved hepatic steatosis by suppressing hepatic lipogenesis while increasing expression of FAO-associated genes such as PGC-1\u03b1. PGE normalized body fat and body weight, which is likely associated with the increased energy expenditure and thermogenic gene expression. PGE can protect from HFD-induced insulin resistance, and hepatic steatosis by controlling lipid and glucose metabolism.', u'/manuscript/201608.0217/v1', [u'Nutrition'], [u'Center for Food and Nutritional Genomics Research, Kyungpook National University, 1370 San-Kyuk Dong Puk-Ku, Daegu 702-701, Korea', u'Department of Food Science and Nutrition, Kyungpook National University, 1370 San-Kyuk Dong  Puk-Ku, Daegu 702-701, Korea', u'Department of Food and Nutrition, Sunchon National University, Suncheon 540-950, Korea', u'College of Pharmacy and Research Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Kyungpook National University, 1370 San-Kyuk Dong Puk-Ku, Daegu 702-701, Korea', u'Department of Food Science and Nutrition, University of Ulsan, Ulsan 680-749, Korea', u'Department of Food and Nutrition, Sookmyung Women\u2019s University, Seoul 140-742, Korea']]
[u'Hsa_circ_0054633 in Peripheral Blood Can be Used as a Diagnostic Biomarker of Pre-Diabetes and Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus', ['Muwei Li', 'Zhenzhou Zhao', 'Xuejie Li', 'Chuanyu Gao', 'Dongdong Jian', 'Peiyuan Hao', 'Lixin Rao'], u'August 29 2016', u'The purpose of current study was to investigate the expression characteristic of circular RNAs (circRNAs) in peripheral blood of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) patients and their potentials as diagnostic biomarkers for pre-diabetes and T2DM. In present study, the circRNAs in the peripheral blood from 6 healthy individuals and 6 T2DM patients were collected for microarray analysis. The results indicated that there were 489 differentially expressed circRNAs, of which 78 were upregulated and 411 were downregulated in the T2DM group. Then we selected 5 circRNAs as the candidate biomarkers under a stricter screening criteria and further verified them in another cohort (control group, n=20; pre-diabetes group, n =20; T2DM group; n=20). 3 of the 5 circRNAs presented upregulated expression in the experimental groups, including 2 circRNAs of the T2DM group that had higher expression than the pre-diabetes group. Hsa_circ_0054633 was identified to have the largest area value under the carve (AUC). In another independent cohort (control group, n=60; pre-diabetes group, n=63; T2DM group, n=64), the diagnostic capacity of hsa_circ_0054633 was tested. The results showed that the AUC for the diagnosis of pre-diabetes was 0.751(95% confidence interval=[0. 666-0.835], P\uff1c0.001) while it was 0.793 ([0.716-0.871], P\uff1c0.001) for the diagnosis of T2DM. After including the risk factors of T2DM, the AUC increased to 0.841 ([0.773-0.910], P <0.001) and 0.834 ([0.762-0.905], P <0.001), respectively. Hsa_circ_0054633 presented a certain diagnostic capability for pre-diabetes and T2DM.', u'/manuscript/201608.0225/v1', [u'Cardiology'], [u"Department of Cardiology, People's Hospital of Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou 450003, China", u'Department of Cardiology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang University, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310003, China']]
[u'Abdominal Obesity and Gastroesophageal Cancer Risk: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Prospective Studies', ['Khemayanto Hidayat', 'Xuan Du', 'Bimin Shi'], u'September 2 2016', u'Backgrounds: the relations of waist circumference (WC) and waist to hip ratio (WHR) to total gastroesophageal cancer, gastric cancer and esophageal cancer are remains largely unexplored. Methods: PubMed and Web of Science databases were searched for studies assessing the association between abdominal obesity and gastroesophageal cancer (gastric cancer and/or esophageal cancer) up to August 2016. A random-effect model was used to calculate the summary risk estimates. Results: Seven prospective cohort studies\u2014one publication included two separate cohort\u2014from six publications were included in the final analysis. A total of 2,130 gastroesophageal cancer cases diagnosed among 913,182 participants. Greater WC and WHR were significantly associated with increased risk of total gastroesophageal cancer (WC: RR 1.68, 95% CI 1.38, 2.04; WHR: RR 1.49, 95% CI 1.19, 1.88), gastric cancer (WC: RR 1.48, 95% CI 1.24, 1.78; WHR: 1.36, 95% CI 1.07, 1.73), and esophageal cancer (WC: RR 2.06, 95% CI 1.30, 3.24; WHR: RR 1.99, 95% CI 1.05, 3.75). Findings from our subgroup analyses showed non-significant positive associations between gastric non-cardia adenocarcinoma and both measures of abdominal adiposity, while gastric non-cardia adenocarcinoma was positively associated with WC but not with WHR. On analysis restricted to studies that adjusted for BMI, WC was positively associated with gastric cancer and esophageal cancer, whereas WHR was positively associated with risk of gastric cancer only. Conclusions: Although limited, the findings from our meta-analysis suggest the potential role of abdominal obesity in the etiology of gastric and esophageal cancers.', u'/manuscript/201609.0004/v1', [u'Gastroenterology'], [u'Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, the First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University,  Suzhou 215006, China']]
[u'ODK Scan: Digitizing Data Collection and Impacting Data Management Processes in the Tuberculosis Control Program of Pakistan', ['Syed Mustafa Ali', 'Rachel Powers', 'Jeffrey Beorse', 'Farah Naureen', 'Arif Noor', 'Naveed Anjum', 'Muhammad Ishaq', 'Javariya Aamir', 'Richard Anderson'], u'September 2 2016', u'The present grievous situation of the tuberculosis disease can be improved by efficient case management and timely follow-up evaluations. With the advent of digital technology this can be achieved by quick summarization of the patient-centric data. The aim of our study was to assess the effectiveness of the ODK Scan paper-to-digital system during testing period of three months. A sequential, explanatory mixed-method research approach was employed to elucidate technology use. Training, smartphones, application and 3G enabled SIMs were provided to the four field workers. At the beginning, baseline measures of the data management aspects were recorded and compared with endline measures to see the impact of ODK Scan. Additionally, at the end, users\u2019 feedback was collected regarding app usability, user interface design and workflow changes. 122 patients\u2019 records were retrieved from the server and analysed for quality. It was found that ODK Scan recognized 99.2% of multiple choice bubble responses and 79.4% of numerical digit responses correctly. However, the overall quality of the digital data was decreased in comparison to manually entered data. Using ODK Scan, a significant time reduction is observed in data aggregation and data transfer activities, however, data verification and form filling activities took more time. Interviews revealed that field workers saw value in using ODK Scan, however, they were more concerned about the time consuming aspects of the use of ODK Scan. Therefore, it is concluded that minimal disturbance in the existing workflow, continuous feedback and value additions are the important considerations for the implementing organization to ensure technology adoption and workflow improvements.', u'/manuscript/201608.0232/v2', [u'Nursing & Health Studies'], [u'Mercy Corps, Pak Palace, Murree Road, Rawal Chowk,  Islamabad 44000, Pakistan', u'Information Systems, Village Reach, Seattle, WA 98102, USA', u'Computer Science and Engineering, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98105, USA']]
[u'ESWT Enhances Expression of Pdia-3 which is a Key Factor of 1\u03b1,25-Dihydroxyvitamin D3 Rapid Membrane Signaling Pathway in Treatment of Early Osteoarthritis Knee', ['Shan-Ling Hsu', 'Jai-Hong Cheng', 'Ching-Jen Wang', 'Jih-Yang Ko', 'Chih-Hsiang Hsu'], u'September 1 2016', u'Dysregulation of cartilage homeostasis and the changes in the density and the architecture of the subchondral bone were postulated as a potent mechanically pathological activity contributing to osteoarthritis (OA) pathogenesis. Extracorporeal shockwave therapy (ESWT) is a new, none invasive and effective method in the treatment of animal OA model. In the current study, we demonstrated that shockwave induced the expression of protein-disulfide isomerase-associated 3 (Pdia-3) which is a multifunctional protein hypothesized to be a significant mediator for 1\u03b1,25-Dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1\u03b1,25(OH)2D3) signaling pathway using two-dimensional electrophoresis. Histological analysis and quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) were verified and observed that the expression of Pdia-3 at 2 weeks was significantly higher than that of any other group at 4 weeks, 8 weeks, and 12 weeks post-shockwave treatment in early OA knee of rat. The other factors of the 1\u03b1,25(OH)2D3 rapid membrane signaling pathway including extracellular signal-regulated protein kinases 1 (ERK1), osteopontin (OPG), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), and matrix metallopeptidase 13 (MMP13) were measured and significantly increased by qPCR at 2 weeks post-shockwave treatment in early OA knee. Our proteomic data revealed significant Pdia-3 expression in microenvironments of joint tissue that could be actively responded to ESWT, which may potentially regulate biological function of chondrocytes and osteoblasts in the treatment of OA knee.', u'/manuscript/201609.0001/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], [u'Center for Shockwave Medicine and Tissue Engineering, Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital and Chang Gung University College of Medicine, Kaohsiung 833, Taiwan', u'Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital and Chang Gung University College of Medicine, Kaohsiung 833, Taiwan', u'Medical Research, Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital and Chang Gung University College of Medicine, Kaohsiung 833, Taiwan']]
[u'Cytotoxic Activity of Vernonia mespilifolia Less Used in the Folk Medicine in the Eastern Cape Province, South Africa', ['Jeremiah Oshiomame Unuofin', 'Gloria Aderonke Otunola', 'Anthony Jide Afolayan'], u'September 2 2016', u'Vernonia mespilifolia is widely used in folk medicine in the Eastern Cape Province, South Africa. The aim of this study was to evaluate the biological activity of the acetone, aqueous and ethanol extracts of Vernonia mespilifolia using brine shrimp hatchability and lethality assay. The result showed hatching success in this order: aqueous extract (48.6%) > acetone extract (38.2%) > ethanol extract (26.8%). The LC50 of the lethality assay were in this order: acetone extract (67.8 \xb5g/mL) > aqueous extract (132 \xb5g/mL) > ethanol extract (383 \xb5g/mL). According to Meyer\u2019s toxicity index (using brine shrimps), LC50 < 1000 \xb5g/ mL is toxic. Therefore, the results of the three solvent extracts could be said to be toxic as do have LC50 < 1000 \xb5g/ mL. However, the toxicity of the crude extracts could suggest or confer some antitumor properties, hence further in vitro, in vivo and antitumour assays are recommended to further substantiate these claims.', u'/manuscript/201609.0006/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], [u'Medicinal Plants and Economic Development (MPED) Research Centre, Department of Botany, University of Fort Hare, Alice 5700, South Africa']]
[u'Ethnic Differences in the Food Intake Patterns and Its Association Factors of Adolescents in Malaysia', ['Nurul-Fadhilah Abdullah', 'Pey Sze Teo', 'Leng Huat Foo'], u'September 5 2016', u'Abstract: Objective: The aim of the study was to identify dietary patterns and its association with socio-economic, dietary and lifestyle practices among adolescents in Malaysia. Methods: A validated food frequency questionnaire was used to assess dietary patterns. Results: Multivariate analyses show that age and physical activity (PA) levels were emerged as positive determinants of healthy-based food pattern in Malay (All, p<0.001), whereas higher consumption of eating-out from home (EatOut) and fast food (All, p<0.05) were negative determinants. High weekly breakfast skipping (p<0.001) and EatOut (p<0.01) were positively associated with a western-based pattern, whereas age (p<0.001) and household income (p<0.05) were negative determinants. Higher frequency of daily snacking (p<0.05) was emerged as positive determinant of local-based food pattern. For Chinese adolescents, age (p<0.001), PA levels (p<0.001) and maternal education level (p<0.05) emerged as positive determinants for the healthy-based pattern, whereas high EatOut and fast food intakes (All, p<0.01) were negative determinants. Higher weekly consumption of EatOut (p<0.01), fast food (p<0.05) and carbonated beverages (p<0.05), and daily snacking practice (p<0.01) were positively associated with higher western-based food pattern, whereas age (p<0.01) was inversely associated. Conclusion: These findings suggest that unhealthy dietary and lifestyle practices could increase the risk of adherence to unhealthy western-based food pattern that is high in fat, sugar and salt contents, and consequently increase the risk of developing obesity and metabolic-related disorders during these critical years of growth.', u'/manuscript/201609.0019/v1', [u'Nutrition'], [u'Programme of Nutrition, School of Health Sciences, Universiti Sains Malaysia, Health Campus, Kubang Kerian 16150, Kelantan, Malaysia', u'Department of Health Science, Faculty of Sport Science and Coaching, Universiti Pendidikan Sultan Idris, Proton City, Tanjung Malim 35900, Perak, Malaysia', u"School of Biosciences, Taylor's University lakeside campus, 47500 Subang Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia"]]
[u'Anticancer and Antioxidant Activities of Some Algae from Western Libyan Coast', ['Rabia Alghazeer', 'Mahboba Enaeli', 'Nazlin K. Howell'], u'September 5 2016', u'Seaweeds are considered as one of the largest biomass producers in marine environment that is rich in bioactive metabolites and a source of natural ingredients for functional foods. The potential antioxidant activity and the potential inhibition of Caco2 cell proliferation, of crude extracts of: Chlorophyta (Ulva lactuca, and Codium tomentosum), Phaeophyta (Cystoseira crinita, Cystoseira stricta, and Sargassum vulgare), and Rhodophyta (Gelidium latifolium, Hypnea musciformis, and Jania rubens) collected from western Libyan coast were evaluated in vitro. The antioxidant activity was determined by reducing power and DPPH assays while cell proliferation, morphological changes and the cell cycle arrest were assessed by MTT, inverted light microscope and flow cytometry methods respectively. The polyphenols and flavonoids rich extracts showed remarkable reducing power and antiradical properties. After exposure of Caco2 cells to; various concentrations of extracts (50, 100,150 and 200 \xb5g/mL) especially from brown algae for 72 h, significantly reduced cell proliferation. The antiproliferative effect of algae extracts was correlated with their polyphenol and flavonoid contents. Cell cycle analysis further showed that cells were arrested in G phases along with an increment in sub-diploidal cell population (sub-G) after extract application. These results imply that seaweeds which are rich in bioactive compounds may be in anticancer drug research programs. However, further investigations are essential to reveal the molecular mechanisms of the anticancer activities of these algae.', u'/manuscript/201609.0018/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], [u'Chemistry Department, Faculty of Sciences, University of Tripoli, Tripoli, Libya', u'Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of Surrey, Guildford, Surrey, United Kingdom GU2 7XH']]
[u'Decreasing Trends in HIV Testing among Adults in Georgia: Analysis of the 2010-2014 BRFSS Data', ['Benjamin E. Ansa', 'Sashia White', 'Yunmi Chung', 'Selina A. Smith'], u'September 5 2016', u'Georgia is ranked fifth highest among states for rates of HIV diagnosis. About 4% of persons living with HIV infection in the United States reside in Georgia, and almost 19% of these people do not know their HIV status. The present study examined the trends and associated factors of HIV testing among adults in Georgia between 2010 and 2014 by analyzing data of the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS). A total of 30,791 persons aged \u226518 years were identified who responded to the question \u201cHave you ever been tested for HIV?\u201d Overall, there were 11,543 respondents who had been tested for HIV, with a decrease in percentage from 49.4% in 2010 to 43.7% in 2014 (p<0.001). Factors associated with HIV testing were being black (p<0.001), being younger than 55 years (p<0.001), single (p=0.02), attaining education level above high school (P<0.001), engaging in HIV high-risk behaviors (p<0.001), and not having healthcare coverage (p=0.03). Overall in Georgia, there has been a decline in the temporal trend of HIV testing, and more than half of adults have never been tested for HIV. For reducing HIV transmission in Georgia, enhancing access and utilization of HIV testing should be a public health priority.', u'/manuscript/201609.0014/v1', [u'Other'], [u'Institute of Public & Preventive Health, Augusta University, CJ-2300 1120 15th Street, Augusta, GA 30912, USA', u'Medical College of Georgia, Augusta University, 1120 15th Street, Augusta, GA 30912, USA', u'Department of Family Medicine, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta, GA 30912, USA']]
[u'Tea Polysaccharides and Their Bioactivities', ['Ling-Ling Du', 'Qiu-Yue Fu', 'Li-Ping Xiang', 'Xin-Qiang Zheng', 'Jian-Liang Lu', 'Jian-Hui Ye', 'Qing-Sheng Li', 'Curt Anthony Polito', 'Yue-Rong Liang'], u'September 5 2016', u'Tea (Camellia sinenesis) is a health beneficial beverage and is also a source for extracting bioactive components such as theanine, tea polyphenols (TPP) and tea polysaccharides (TPS). TPS is a group of hetero-polysaccharides bounded with proteins. There were tests showing that TPS had various bioactivities, such as antioxidant, antitumors, antihyperglycemia, anti-inflammation and improving immunity. However, inconsistent results concerning chemical composition and bioactivity of TPS were published in recent years. The advances in chemical composition and bioactivities of TPS were reviewed in the present paper. The inconsistent and controversial results regarding composition and bioactivities of TPS were also discussed.', u'/manuscript/201609.0013/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], [u'Tea Research Institute, Zhejiang University, # 866 Yuhangtang Road, Hangzhou 310058, China', u'National Tea and Tea product Quality Supervision and Inspection Center (Guizhou), Zunyi 563100, China']]
[u'Chemical Compositions of Ligusticum chuanxiong Oil and Lemongrass Oil and Their Joint Action against Aphis citricola van der Goot (Hemiptera: Aphididae)', ['Chao Zhang', 'Runqiang Liu', 'Jun He', 'Zhiqing Ma', 'Xing Zhang'], u'September 6 2016', u'In order to develop novel botanical insecticides, the joint action of Ligusticum chuanxiong oil (LCO) and lemongrass oil (LO) against Aphis citricola van der Goot was determined systematically indoors and outdoors. The chemical profiles of LCO and LO as determined by gas chromatography- mass spectrometry analysis revealed that main compounds from LCO were Z-Ligustilide (44.58%) and Senkyunolide A (26.92%), and that of LO were geranial (42.16%) and neral (32.58%), respectively. The mixture of LCO and LO showed significant synergy against  A. citricola, with a common-toxicity coefficient (CTC) value of 221.46 at the optimal ratio of LCO to LO (4: 1, w/w). Based on the results of solvents and emulsifiers screening, L. Chuanxiong oil \xb7 Lemongrass oil 20% emulsifiable concentrate (20% LCO \xb7 LO EC) was developed, which was confirmed to meet the requirements of a commercial pesticide by quality test. Field trials indicated that the insecticidal activity of the diluted 20% LCO \xb7 LO EC (1000 fold dilution) was comparable to conventional pesticide (20% imidacloprid EC) on A. citricola 7 days after application. Thus, the mixture of LCO and LO has the potential to be further developed as a botanical pesticide.', u'/manuscript/201609.0021/v1', [u'Entomology'], [u'Research and Development Center of Biorational Pesticide, Northwest Agriculture & Forestry University, Yangling 712100, China', u'Shaanxi Research Center of Biopesticide Engineering & Technology, Yangling 712100, China']]
[u'Art of Music, as Harmony of the Spheres and Autism Spectrum Disorder', ['Bharathi Geetha', 'Thangaraj Sugunadevi', 'Babu Srija', 'Nagarajan Laleethambika', 'Vellingiri Balachandar'], u'September 6 2016', u'Music has the innate potential to reach all parts of the brain, stimulates certain brain areas which are not achievable through other modalities. Music Therapy (MT) is being used for more than a century to treat individuals who needs personalized care. MT optimizes motor, speech and language responsibilities of the brain and improves cognitive performance. Pervasive developmentdisorder (PDD) is a multifaceted, neuro developmental disorder and autism spectrum disorder (ASD) comes under PDD, which is defined by deficiencies in three principal spheres: social connection with others, communicative and normal movement skills. The conventional imaging studies illustrate reduced brain area connectivity in people with ASD, involving selected parts of the brain cortex. People with ASD express much interest in musical activities which engages the brain network areas and improves communication and social skills.The main objective of this review is to analyze the potential role of MT in treating the neurological conditions, particularly ASD. Evidence based studies have reported the extensive therapeutic application of music on various part of the brain in a nonverbal child with autism through hearing or making music.Hence we hypothesized that MT intervention can improve the communication capacity in people with ASD, than customary neurorestoration therapy alone.', u'/manuscript/201609.0022/v1', [u'Psychiatry & Mental Health studies'], [u'Human Molecular Genetics and Stem Cell Laboratory, Department of Human Genetics & Molecular Biology, Bharathiar University, Coimbatore, 641046 Tamil Nadu, India']]
[u'Fundamental Elucidation of HLA in Type 1 Diabetes of Arab Populations', ['Mohamed Mirza Jahromi'], u'September 7 2016', u'Aims/Hypothesis): Type 1 diabetes is an immune-mediated disease with destruction of the pancreatic \u03b2-cells, a process that is conditioned by multiple genes and other factors. HLA counts as the major susceptibility gene. Significant variations in HLA genetic susceptibility to type 1 diabetes between Caucasians, African and Asian and other ethnic groups may have led to the variation in incidence of type 1 diabetes globally. Type 1 diabetes is characterized upon HLA identification. In this chapter we discuss global variations in genetic susceptibility of HLA with regard to type 1 diabetes globally with a particular attention to Arab population. Methods): Haplotype configuration of HLA class I A, B, C and Class II \u2013DR/DQ/DP were studied in Caucasians, African and Asian and in Arab population to see if that is responsible for the exponential rise in the rate of type 1 diabetes. Results): Although Arabs have one of the highest global incidence and prevalence rates of type 1 diabetes, unfortunately, there is a dearth amount of information regarding HLA genetic susceptibility to type 1 diabetes in the Arab world. HLA haplotype configurations contribute to its risk value. However, out of an insufficient present study there are examples of misjudgment of HLA risk according to HLA alleles rather than haplotypes. Conclusion): To date HLA outlooks for the characterization of type 1 diabetes. There is an ethnicity difference in HLA characteristics which is responsible for variation in type 1 diabetes. Although Arab population have contributed heavily in the rise of burden of type 1 diabetes, however, there is significantly a dearth amount of studies on HLA in Arab population. Obviously, any future prediction, prevention or cure of the disease will be based on the HLA genetics. There is a dire need for a systematic screening of HLA for Arab population with type 1 diabetes, identification of Arab HLA-risk values and identify those who are prone to get the disease.', u'/manuscript/201609.0029/v1', [u'Other'], [u'Population genetics, Clinical Research Department, Clinical Division, Dasman Diabetes Institute, P.O Box 1180, Dasman 15462, Kuwait']]
[u'Identification of One BOCR Mutation and Five NF1 Mutations in Male Patients with Neurofibromatosis Type 1 and Congenital Pseudarthrosis of the Tibia', ['Zhifan Zhou', 'Yong Zeng', 'Xinchun Wu', 'Fei Li', 'Xiaoyan Liu', 'Lu Zhou', 'Lihua Hou', 'Silong Sun', 'Lu Shen', 'Zhangyuan Lin'], u'September 7 2016', u'Neurofibromatosis type1 (NF1) is an autosomal dominant disorder caused by mutations in the NF1gene. Although congenital pseudarthrosis of the tibia (CPT) has frequently been associated with NF1, the underlying molecular mechanism of CPT in these NF1 patients is yet ill-understood. The aim of the present study was to detect NF1 mutations from genomic DNA and to harbor variants associated with CPT in NF1 patients. Whole-exome sequencing was first carried out with samples from two patients with CPT in one NF1 family, and a novel mutation c.2324A>G (p.E775G) in NF1 gene was identified. Additionally, a missense variant c.455C>T (p.P152L) in BCOR gene completely co-segregated with the CPT phenotype within this family. Subsequently, NF1 and NF2 genes in four other unrelated patients with both NF1 and CPT were screened using targeted sequencing. Four mutations in NF1 gene, including two known mutations (c.2288T>C/p.L763P, c.574 C>T/p.R192*) and two novel mutations (c.768delT/p.F256Lfs*25, c.2229_2230delTG/ p.V744Qfs*23) were detected. Further study confirmed that CPT was present in NF1 families, and NF1 mutations were closely associated with these complex phenotypes. Moreover, the data from the current study indicated that male gender might be a susceptibility factor for CPT in NF1. Therefore, we speculated that BCOR variants might be related to CPT phenotype among male NF1 patients.', u'/manuscript/201609.0024/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], [u'Department of Neurology, Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, Changsha 410008, China', u'Hunan Province Key Laboratory in Neurodegenerative Disorders, Central South University, Changsha 410008, China', u'State Key Laboratory of Medical Genetics, Changsha 410008, China', u'Department of Orthopaedics, Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, #87 Xiangya Road, Changsha 410008, China', u'BGI-Shenzhen, Shenzhen, Guangdong Province, 518083, China']]
[u'Antioxidant Activity and Isolation of \u03b2-Sitosterol from Ethyl Acetate Extract of Aerial Parts of Consolida orientalis', ['Abbas Ali Dehpour'], u'September 9 2016', u'General phytochemical screening of the aerial parts of Consolida orientalis revealed the presence of steroids, terpenes, phenolic compounds, saponins, fatty acids, alkaloids. This study was conducted to investigate the bioactivities of extracts, isolation and identification the compounds from aerial parts of C.orientalis. The main goal of the present study is identifying and characterizing the antioxidant activity of the Consolida orientalis and biological isolation of active terpenoid. Aerial parts of the plant were dried at room temperature and reduced to small pieces, followed by using extraction with ethyl acetate percolation. Tree complementary analysis system was used, DPPH free radical scavenging test, total phenolic metabolites and FRAP. The total phenolic content was 38.83\xb12.09 mg gallic acid corresponding to g-1 extract with regarding to standard curve (y=0.0054x+0.0488, r2=0.995). IC50 value for DPPH radical \u2013 scavenging was 987.11\xb128.66 mgml-1. The extract was exhibited a medium reducing power compared with Vit C. The isolation and purification was afforded white crystalline powder which was subjected to physical, chemical and spectral identification by IR, 1H- and 13C- NMR and GC-MS. Isolated compound was identified as \u03b2-sitosterol. That is a terpenoid with melting point 133.4-134.5 \u0366 c and with molecular formula C29H50O.', u'/manuscript/201609.0037/v1', [u'Plant Sciences'], [u'Department of Biology, Islamic Azad University, Qaemshhahr Branch, Qaemshahr, Iran']]
[u'Antidermatophytic Activity of the Fruticose Lichen Usnea orientalis', ['Ashutosh Pathak', 'Anupam Dikshit'], u'September 9 2016', u'In the present study, the new biological sources in the form of lichen Usnea orientalis Motyka was screened for its antidermatophytic potential. Six species of dermatophytes were chosen on the basis of their prevalence for antidermatophytic assays, and the Clinical Laboratory Standard Institute (CLSI)-recommended broth microdilution procedure was used to detect the efficacy of extract against dermatophytes. Thin layer chromatography of lichen extracts reveals the presence of two secondary metabolites viz. salazinic acid and usnic acid. U. orientalis extract exhibited promising antidermatophytic activity against all tested pathogens. Amongst all tested pathogens, E. floccosum exhibited most susceptibility towards extract, whereas T. mentagrophytes exhibited the least susceptibility. Topical application of U. orientalis extract might be helpful in the cure of dermal infections.', u'/manuscript/201609.0034/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], [u'Biological Product Lab, Department of Botany, University of Allahabad, Allahabad 211012, U.P., India', u'Lichenology Laboratory, CSIR-National Botanical Research Institute, Rana Pratap Marg, Lucknow 226001, U.P., India']]
[u'Assessing the Attitudes and Clinical Practices of Ohio Dentists Treating Patients with Dental Anxiety', ['Kristin A. Williams', 'Sarah Lambaria', 'Sara Askounes'], u'September 12 2016', u'Dental anxiety (DA) negatively affects patients\u2019 oral and overall health. This study explored attitudes and clinical practices of licensed Ohio general dentists who treat patients  with DA. Methods: An anonymous self-administered mail survey was sent to 500 general dentists licensed and practicing in Ohio. Responses to 21 pre-coded questions were analyzed.  Frequencies were examined; cross-tabs, Chi-Square, and Fischer\u2019s Exact Test were calculated for statements according to dentists\u2019 gender. Alpha was set at p = 0.05. Results: Nearly all respondents treated anxious patients; males were more likely to find it challenging than females. Dentists were most familiar with distraction, although half found nitrous oxide to be an effective tool. Female dentists were more likely than males to be familiar with anxiolytics and find them effective. Conclusion: Overall, Ohio general dentists are most familiar with using distraction and nitrous oxide during appointments for anxious patients. Gender differences exist in attitudes towards anxiolytic use for patients with DA. Practice Implications: By identifying techniques that are comfortable for patient and practitioner, oral health disparities associated with DA may be reduced.', u'/manuscript/201609.0041/v1', [u'Other'], [u'School of Dental Medicine, Department of Community Dentistry, Case Western Reserve University,  2124 Cornell Road, Cleveland, OH 44106, USA']]
[u'Genome-Wide Analysis of Oligopeptide Transporters Gene Family in Medicago truncatula', ['Renze Liu', 'Hongyu Shan', 'Yongjun Shu', 'Changhong Guo', 'Donglin Guo'], u'September 15 2016', u'Oligopeptide transporters (OPTs) are a group of membrane localized proteins that have a broad range of substrate transport capabilities and contribute to numerous biological processes. However, limited information has been reported on OPTs in higher plants. In this study, a comprehensive analysis of the OPT gene family in Medicago truncatula was performed. A total of 26 OPT genes (MtOPT01-MtOPT26) have been identified in the Medicago truncatula genome. Phylogenetic analyses indicated that MtOPTs consisted of two distinct subgroups, 12 MtOPTs belonged to the peptide transport subgroup (PT-OPT) based on their predicted amino acid sequences containing the two highly conserved motifs (NPG and KIPPR) and 14 MtOPTs belonged to yellow stripe subgroup (YS-OPT). The MtOPTs distributed on each of 8 chromosomes in Medicago truncatula. Sequence analysis verified that MtOPTs significant similar to those in other plants. The copy number of MtOPTs was low and the multiply of MtOPTs was simple relatively. Gene structure analysis showed that most of the MtOPTs have various numbers of introns. The multiple of MtOPTs might play different biological roles which were supported by the fact that MtOPTs have a distinct tissue-specific expression pattern. The data obtained in this study will help to better understand the complexity of the MtOPTs gene family and provide new evidence for the function and evolution of the OPT gene family in higher plants.', u'/manuscript/201609.0048/v1', [u'Plant Sciences'], [u'Key Laboratory of Molecular Cytogenetics and Genetic Breeding of Heilongjiang Province, College of Life Science and Technology, Harbin Normal University, Harbin 150025, China']]
[u'RNA-seq Analysis of Solanesol Biosynthesis Genes in Nicotiana tabacum', ['Ning Yan', 'Hongbo Zhang', 'Zhongfeng Zhang', 'John Shi', 'Michael P. Timko', 'Yongmei Du', 'Xinmin Liu', 'Yanhua Liu'], u'September 18 2016', u'Solanesol is a noncyclic terpene alcohol composed of nine isoprene units and it mainly accumulates in solanaceous plants, especially tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.). Here, RNA-seq analyses of tobacco leaves, stems, and roots were used to identify solanesol biosynthesis genes. Six 1-deoxy-d-xylulose 5-phosphate synthase, two 1-deoxy-d-xylulose 5-phosphate reductoisomerase, two 2-C-methyl-d-erythritol 4-phosphate cytidylyltransferase, four 4-diphosphocytidyl-2-C-methyl-d-erythritol kinase, two 2-C-methyl-d-erythritol 2,4-cyclodiphosphate synthase, four 1-hydroxy-2-methyl-2-(E)-butenyl 4-diphosphate synthase, two 1-hydroxy-2-methyl-2-(E)-butenyl 4-diphosphate reductase, six isopentenyl diphosphate isomerase, and two solanesyl diphosphate synthase (SPS) genes were identified to be involved in solanesol biosynthesis. Furthermore, the two N. tabacum SPS (NtSPS1 and NtSPS2), which had two conserved aspartate-rich DDxxD domains, were highly homologous with SPS enzymes from other solanaceous plant species. In addition, the solanesol contents of three organs, and leaves from four growing stages, corresponded with the distribution of chlorophyll. Our findings provide a comprehensive evaluation of the correlation between the expression of different biosynthetic genes and the accumulation of solanesol in tobacco.', u'/manuscript/201609.0062/v1', [u'Plant Sciences'], [u'Tobacco Research Institute of Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Qingdao 266101, China', u'Guelph Food Research Center, Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada, Guelph, ON N1G 5C9, Canada', u'Department of Biology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA 22904, USA']]
[u'The Impacts of Different Green Manure on Soil Microbial Communities and Crop Health', ['Hongwu Yang', 'Jiaojiao Niu', 'Jiemeng Tao', 'Yabing Gu', 'Chao Zhang', 'Siyuan She', 'Wu Chen', 'Hongqi Yang', 'Huaqun Yin'], u'September 18 2016', u'Green manure could improve soil nutrients and crop production, playing a significant role in sustainable agriculture. However, the impacts of green manure on crop health and the roles soil microbial communities play in the process haven\u2019t been clarified clearly yet. In this study, we investigated soil microbial community composition and structure in four tobacco farmlands, which were treated with different green manure (control, ryegrass, pea and rape), using 16S rRNA gene amplicons sequencing. Results showed that green manure had significant impacts on soil properties, microbial communities and tobacco health. First, soil total C, N and Ca content increased significantly in groups treated with green manure than control. Second, soil community diversity was significantly higher in groups treated with green manure. Third, green manure especially ryegrass, decreased tobacco disease (bacterial wilt) rate dramatically, and the process might be mediated by soil microbial communities. On the one hand, several microbial populations were found to be potentially disease inducible or suppressive. For example, the abundances of Dokdonella and Rhodanobacter were positively correlated to tobacco disease rate, while Acidobacteira_Gp4 and Gp6 had negative correlations with tobacco disease. On the other hand, soil microbial communities were shaped by soil properties (e.g., pH, C and N content). In conclusion, our research showed that green manure could increase soil nutrients directly, and further improve tobacco health mediated by soil microorganisms, which may shed light on revealing interactions among soil properties, microorganisms and plants.', u'/manuscript/201609.0056/v1', [u'Agricultural Sciences & Agronomy'], [u'College of agronomy, Hunan Agricultural University, Changsha 410128, China', u'School of Minerals Processing and Bioengineering, Central South University,  Changsha 410083, China', u'Key laboratory of Biometallurgy, Ministry of Education, Changsha 410083, China']]
[u'Characterization and Development of EST-SSR Markers in Sweet Potato (Ipomoea batatas (L.) Lam)', ['Jin-Hee Kim', 'Jun-Hoi Kim', 'Won-Sam Jo', 'Jung-Gwan Ham', 'Il Kyung Chung', 'Kyung-Min Kim'], u'September 20 2016', u'According to statistics from the Food and Agriculture Organization, the world population will increase to about 91 million (Asia 51 million, Africa 19 million). A rise in the world\u2019s population means an increased need for food. However, climate change has caused desertification and unpredictable weather, creating problems in the supply and demand of food. Sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas) is an alternative to solving the food problem, as it is one of the world\u2019s most important food crops, especially in developing countries. The tuberous roots of sweet potato are usually used as staple food, animal feed, industrial material, or raw material for alcohol production. In the future, more variations of sweet potato will be needed for breeding this crop. Recently, molecular markers developed for sweet potato have demonstrated good potential for use in genetic selection. In this study, a cDNA library was constructed from the total RNA of sweet potato leaves. A total of 789 copies of the cDNA were cloned in Escherichia coli by employing the pGEM-T Easy vector. Sequencing was carried out by Solgent Co. (Korea). As many as 579 expressed sequence tag\u2013simple sequence repeat (EST-SSR) markers were designed (73.38%) from the known cDNA nucleotide base sequences. The lengths of the developed EST-SSR markers ranged from 100 to 499 bp (average length 238 bp). Their motif sequence types were varied, with most being dinucleotides and pentanucleotides, and the most commonly found motifs were CAGAAT (29.0%) and TCT (2.8%). Based on these SSR-containing sequences, 619 pairs of high-quality SSR primers were designed using WebSat and Primer3web. The total number of primers designed was 144. Polymorphism was evident in 82 EST-SSR markers among 20 Korean sweet potato cultivars tested and in 90 EST-SSR markers in the two parents of a mapping population, Yeseumi and Annobeny. In this study, the hexaploid sweet potato (2n = 6x = 90) EST-SSR markers were developed in the absence of full-sequence data. Moreover, by acting as a molecular tag for particular traits, the EST-SSR marker can also simultaneously identify information about the corresponding gene. These EST-SSR markers will allow the molecular analysis of sweet potato to be done more efficiently. Thus, we can develop high-quality sweet potato while overcoming the challenges from climate change and other unfavorable conditions.', u'/manuscript/201609.0071/v1', [u'Plant Sciences'], [u'Division of Plant Biosciences, School of Applied Biosciences, College of Agriculture and Life Science, Kyungpook National University, Daegu 41566, Korea', u'Department of Biotechnology, Catholic University of Daegu, Gyeongsan-Si, Gyeongbuk 38430, Korea']]
[u'Strategies in the Design of Antidiabetic Drugs from Terminalia Chebula Retz. Using in silico and in vitro Approach', ['Twinkle Bansode', 'B.K. Salalkar'], u'September 20 2016', u'Diabetes mellitus is the fifth deadliest disease in the developing countries. Even with all the research and new drugs available, combating diabetes is still challenging. There are successes in finding new cost effective drugs without side effects, even if not perfect. In our investigation we studied binding mechanism of secondary metabolite of T. chebula in silico. It was observed that three compounds out of 16 have a higher binding affinity for the target proteins. Ellagic acid showed highest binding affinity with alpha amylase, beta glucosidase and alpha glucosidase with lesser binding energies -4.5kcal/mol, -5.36kcal/mol and -4.48kcal/mol respectively. Arjungenin has lesser binding energy of 4.77 kcal/mol with glucokinase while luteoline has binding energy of -7.25kcal/mol for enzyme glycogen synthase kinase. These entire compounds interacted with non-covalent interaction. Petroleum ether extract showed the significant alpha amylase inhibitory activity i.e. 51.22% as compared to standard drug (65.99%).TLC analysis revealed the presence of total 9 compounds in different plant extracts one of them might be a lead compound which could be further exploited for the development of novel safer and potent antidiabetic drug.', u'/manuscript/201609.0073/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], [u'Pravara Institute of Medical Sciences (DU), Loni (Bk), Tal. Rahata, Dist.Ahmednagar, (MS) India-413736', u'Arts, Science & Commerce College, Rahata, Tal-Rahata, Dist. Ahmednagar (MS) India \u2013423 107']]
[u'Effects of Fetal Exposure to Asian Sand Dust on Fetal Development and Reproductive Function in Male Offspring', ['Seiichi Yoshida', 'Takamichi Ichinose', 'Keiichi Arashidani', 'Miao He', 'Hirohisa Takano', 'Takayuki Shibamoto'], u'September 20 2016', u'In recent experimental studies, we reported the aggravating effects of Asian sand dust (ASD) on male reproductive function in mice. However, the effects of fetal ASD exposure on male reproductive function have not been investigated. The present study investigated the effects of fetal ASD exposure on reproductive function in male offspring. Using pregnant CD-1 mice, ASD was administered intratracheally on days 7 and 14 of gestation, and the reproductive function of male offspring was determined at 5, 10, and 15 weeks after birth. The secondary sex ratio was significantly lower in the fetal ASD-exposed mice than in the controls. Histologic examination showed partial vacuolation of seminiferous tubules in immature mice. Moreover, daily sperm production (DSP) was significantly less in the fetal ASD-exposed mice than in the controls. DSP in the fetal ASD-exposed mice was approximately 10% less than the controls at both 5 and 10 weeks. However, both the histologic changes and the DSP decrease were reversed as the mice matured. These findings suggest that ASD exposure affects both the fetal development and the reproductive function of male offspring. In the future, it will be necessary to clarify the onset mechanisms of ASD-induced male fetus death and male reproductive disorders.', u'/manuscript/201609.0070/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], [u'Department of Health and Sciences, Oita University of Nursing and Health Sciences, Oita 870-1201, Japan', u'Department of Immunology and Parasitology, School of Medicine, University of Occupational and Environmental Health, Fukuoka 807-8555, Japan', u'Environment and Non-Communicable Disease Research Center, School of Public Health,  China Medical University, Shenyang 110122, China', u'Environmental Health Division, Department of Environmental Engineering, Graduate School of Engineering, Kyoto University, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan', u'Department of Environmental Toxicology, University of California, Davis, CA 95616, USA']]
[u'Evaluation of Antibody Titre of Dogs Vaccinated against Canine Distemper in Jos, Plateau State', ['Kenneth Ikejiofor Ogbu'], u'September 20 2016', u'Determination of antibody titre of dogs vaccinated against canine distemper in Jos North and South local Government Areas of Plateau State was carried out by collection of sera of vaccinated dogs and administration of well-structured questionnaires to dog owners. The samples collected were analyzed using the immune-blot ELISA Kit to determining the antibody titre (immunoglobulin G). It indicated that dogs vaccinated against the disease mounted adequate protective immunity. The result revealed that 54 (90.0%) of the sampled dogs have protective immunity, with those given more than one dose having higher level of protective antibody. Statistically, the result showed that the antibody titre did not differ significantly in relation to immunity and sex, breed, age and location but significant difference was seen in relation to number of primary vaccination. The result also revealed that those dogs that received booster doses (secondary vaccination) had more protective antibody. The study was aimed at evaluating the antibody titre of dogs vaccinated against canine distemper in Jos, Plateau State.', u'/manuscript/201609.0066/v1', [u'Veterinary Medicine'], [u'Federal College of Animal Health and Production Technology, Vom, Plateau State, Nigeria']]
[u'Regulation of ERK and AKT Pathways by Hepatitis B Virus X Protein via Notch1 Pathway in Hepatocellular Carcinoma', ['Bo Liao', 'Hong-Hao Zhou', 'Hui-Fang Liang', 'Chang-Hai Li'], u'September 21 2016', u'Hepatitis B virus (HBV) is the dominant risk factor for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). HBV X protein (HBx) plays crucial roles in HCC carcinogenesis. HBx interferes with several signaling pathways including Notch1 pathway in HCC. In our study, we found that Notch1 was highly expressed in HCC especially in large HCC. Notch1 and HBx co-localized in HCC and their levels were positively correlated with each other. Notch1 expression was more elevated in HepG2.2.15 than that in HepG2. HBx activated Notch1 pathway in HepG2.2.15. Repression of HBx and Notch1 pathway attenuated the growth of HepG2.2.15. Notch1, ERK and AKT pathways were inhibited after a \u03b3-secretase inhibitor treatment. Dual-specificity phosphatase 1 (DUSP1) and phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) were up-regulated after the \u03b3-secretase inhibitor treatment and Hes1 inhibition. Luciferase reporter assays showed that Hes1 repressed the promoters of DUSP1 and PTEN and this was reverted by \u03b3-secretase inhibitor treatment. Western blotting demonstrated that DUSP1 dephosphorylated pERK and PTEN dephosphorylated pAKT. Collectively, we reported a link among HBx, Notch1 pathway, DUSP1/PTEN, and ERK/AKT pathways, which influenced HCC cell survival and could be a therapeutic target for HCC.', u'/manuscript/201609.0074/v1', [u'Oncology & Oncogenics'], [u'Department of General Surgery, Zhongnan Hospital, Wuhan University, 169 Donghu Road, Wuhan 430071, China', u'Hepatic Surgery Centre, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, 1095 Jiefang Avenue, Wuhan 430030, China']]
[u'How Glutamate Is Managed by the Blood-Brain Barrier', ['Richard A. Hawkins', 'Juan R. Vina'], u'September 23 2016', u'A facilitative transport system exists on the blood brain barrier (BBB) that has been tacitly assumed to be a path for glutamate entry to brain. But glutamate is a non-essential amino acid whose brain content is much greater than plasma, and studies in vivo show that glutamate does not enter brain in material quantities except in those small regions with fenestrated capillaries (circumventricular organs). The situation became understandable when luminal (blood facing) and abluminal (brain facing) membranes were isolated and studied separately. Facilitative transport of glutamate and glutamine exist only on the luminal membranes whereas Na+-dependent transport systems for glutamate, glutamine and some other amino acids are present only on the abluminal membrane. The Na+-dependent cotransporters of the abluminal membrane are in a position to actively transport amino acids from the extracellular fluid (ECF) into the endothelial cells of the BBB. These powerful secondary active transporters couple the energy of the Na+-gradient to move glutamate and glutamine into the ECF whereupon glutamate can exit to blood on the luminal facilitative glutamate transporter. Glutamine may also exit brain on a separate facilitative transport system that exists on the luminal membranes or glutamine can be hydrolyzed to glutamate within the BBB thereby releasing ammonia that is freely diffusible. The \u03b3-glutamyl participate cycle participates indirectly by producing oxoproline (pyroglutamate) that stimulates almost all secondary active transporters yet discovered in the abluminal membranes of the BBB.', u'/manuscript/201609.0077/v1', [u'Physiology'], [u'Department of Physiology & Biophysics, The Chicago MedicalSchool, Rosalind Franklin University of Medicine and Science, North Chicago, IL 60088, USA', u'Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Faculty of Medicine and Odontology, University of Valencia, Valencia 46010, Spain']]
[u'In Vitro Study of a Superhydrophilic Thin Film Nitinol Endograft that Is Electrostatically Endothelialized in the Catheter Prior to the Endovascular Procedure', ['Mahdis Shayan', 'Yanfei Chen', 'Puneeth Shridhar', 'Colin P. Kealey', 'Youngjae Chun'], u'September 23 2016', u'Electrostatic endothelial cell seeding has evolved as an exceptional technique to improve the efficiency of cell seeding in terms of frequency of attached cells and the amount of cell adhesion for the treatment of vascular diseases. In the recent times, both untreated and superhydrophilic thin film nitinol (TFN) have exhibited strong prospect as substrates for creation of small-diameter endovascular grafts due to their hallmark properties of superelasticity, ultra low-profile character, grown hemocompatible oxide layer with the presence of a uniform endothelial layer on the surface. The purpose of the current study is to understand the effects of endothelial cell seeding parameters (i.e., applied voltage, incubation time, substrate chemistry and cell suspension solution) to investigate the cell seeding phenomenon and to improve the cell adhesion and growth on the TFN surface under electrostatic transplantation. Both parallel plate and cylindrical capacitor models were used along with the Taguchi Design of Experiment (DOE) methods to design in vitro test parameters. A novel in vitro system for cylindrical capacitor model was created using a micro flow pump, micro incubation system, and silicone tubings. The augmented endothelialization on thin film nitinol was developed to determine the effect of cell seeding and deployed in a 6 Fr intravascular catheter setup. Cell viability along with morphology and proliferation of adhered cells were evaluated using fluorescent and scanning electron microscopy. Our results demonstrated that the maximum number of cells attached on STFN in the catheter was observed in 5V with the 2 hr exposure of in the cell culture medium (CCM) solution. The condition showed 5V voltage with 0.68\xd710-6 \xb5C electrostatic charge and 5.11 V\xb7mm-1 electric field. Our findings have first demonstrated that the electrostatic endothelialization on the superhydrophilic thin film nitinol endograft within the catheter prior to the endovascular procedure could enhance the biocompatibility for low-profile endovascular applications.', u'/manuscript/201609.0078/v1', [u'Cardiology'], [u'Department of Industrial Engineering, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15260, USA', u'Department of Bioengineering, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15260, USA', u'Business Development, NeuroSigma, Inc., Los Angeles, CA 90024, USA', u'McGowan Institute for Regenerative Medicine, Pittsburgh, PA 15219, USA']]
[u'Determination of Genetic Variations of Toll-like Receptor (TLR) 2, 4 and 6 with Next Generation Sequencing in Native Cattle Breeds of Anatolia and Holstein Friesian', ['Nuket Bilgen', 'Bengi Cinar Kul', 'Victoria Offord', 'Dirk Werling', 'Okan Ertugrul'], u'September 23 2016', u'In recent years, the focus of disease resistance and susceptibility studies in cattle have been on determining patterns in the innate immune response of key proteins, such as Toll-like receptors (TLR). In the bovine genome, there are 10 TLR family members and, of these, TLR2, TLR4 and TLR6 are specialized in recognition of bacterial ligands. Indigenous cattle breeds of Anatolia have been reported to show fewer signs of clinical bacterial infections, such as bovine tuberculosis and mastitis, and it is hypothesized that this might be due to a less stringent genetic selection during breeding. In contrast, Holstein-Friesian cattle have been under strong selection for milk production, which may have resulted in greater susceptibility to diseases. To test this hypothesis, we have compared the TLR2, TLR4 and TLR6 genes of Anatolian Black (AB), East Anatolian Red (EAR), South Anatolian Red (SAR), Turkish Grey (TG), and Holstein (HOL) cattle using Next Generation Sequencing. The SAR breed had the most variations overall, followed by EAR, AB, TG and HOL. TG had the most variations for TLR2 whereas SAR had the most variations in TLR4 and TLR6. We compared these variants with those associated with disease and susceptibility traits. We used exon variants to construct haplotypes, investigated shared haplotypes within breeds and determined candidate haplotypes for disease resistance phenotype in Anatolian cattle breeds.', u'/manuscript/201609.0080/v1', [u'Genetics'], [u'Department of Animal Genetics, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University of Ankara,  Ankara 06560, Turkey', u'Department of Pathology and Infectious Diseases, Royal Veterinary College, University of London, London WC1E 7HU, UK']]
[u'Destabilization Mechanism of Ionic Surfactant on Curcumin Nanocrystal against Electrolyte', ['Heni Rachmawati'], u'September 26 2016', u'We have successfully developed curcumin nanosuspension aimed for oral delivery. The main purpose is to improve bioavailability through enhancing its solubility. The nanoparticles were stabilized using various stabilizers including polyvinyl pyrrolidone (PVP), polyvinyl alcohol (PVA), sodium carboxymethylcellulose (Na-CMC), d-alpha tocopheryl polyethylene glycol 1000 succinate (TPGS), and sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS). The average diameter of particles, microscopic appearance, and sedimentation of each preparation was observed and compared. Each stabilizer demonstrated different degree of inhibition of particle aggregation under electrolyte-containing simulated gastrointestinal (GIT) fluid. Non-ionic stabilizers (PVA, PVP, and TPGS) has shown to preserve the nanosuspension stability against electrolytes. In contrast, strong ionic surfactants such as SDS were found to be very sensitive to electrolytes. The results can provide useful information for the formulators to choose the most suitable stabilizers by considering the nature of stabilizers and physiological characteristics of target site of the drug.', u'/manuscript/201609.0094/v1', [u'Other'], [u'Pharmaceutics Research Group, School of Pharmacy, Bandung Institute of Technology,  Bandung 40132, Indonesia', u'Research Center for Nanosciences and Nanotechnology, Bandung Institute of Technology,  Bandung 40132, Indonesia', u'Biopharmaceutics & NutriCosmetics, Pharmaceutical Technology, Department of Pharmacy,  Freie Universit\xe4t Berlin, Berlin 14195, Germany']]
[u'Efficacy and Safety of Eribulin in Taxane-Refractory Patients in the \u201cReal World\u201d', ['Vito Lorusso', 'Saverio Cinieri', 'Agnese Latorre', 'Luca Porcu', 'Lucia Del Mastro', 'Fabio Puglisi', 'Sandro Barni'], u'September 26 2016', u'Taxanes have been shown to be the most effective treatment for recurrent or metastatic breast cancer. However, for patients pretreated with taxanes, more active and possibly less toxic drugs are needed. In this retrospective study, we investigated on the effectiveness and safety of eribulin mesylate in 91 taxane-refractory subjects, extracted from the ESEMPIO database, which included 497 metastatic breast cancer patients treated with eribulin allover the Italy. This analysis included only those patients who have shown disease progression while receiving taxane therapy (primary refractory), or those who achieved a response followed by progression while still on therapy (taxane failure). Overall, 41/91 patients (45.2%) showed a clinical benefit; 1 complete response (2.2%) and 16 partial responses (17.6%) were observed. The median progression free survival was 3.1 months (95% CI: 2.8\u20133.5) and the median overall survival was 11.6 months (95% CI: 8.7\u201316.7). With regard to toxicity, 53 patients (58%) experienced asthenia/fatigue, 23 (25%) showed peripheral neurotoxicity, 18 (20%) alopecia, 12 (13%) mild constipation and 27 (30%) neutropenia. The toxicity related to the treatment led to eribulin dose reduction in 19 (21%) and discontinuation in 9 (10%) patients, respectively. In conclusion, this study suggests that eribulin is effective and well tolerated also in taxane-refractory patient.', u'/manuscript/201609.0093/v1', [u'Oncology & Oncogenics'], [u'Istituto Tumori Giovanni Paolo II IRCCS, Bari 70124, Italy', u'Ospedale A. Perrino, Brindisi 72100, Italy', u'Department of Oncology, IRCCS-Istituto di Ricerche Farmacologiche Mario Negri, Milan 19-20156, Italy', u'IRCCS AOU San Martino-IST, Genova 10-16132, Italy', u'Azienda Ospedaliera-Universitaria di Udine, Udine 33100, Italy', u'A.S.S.T. Bergamo Ovest, Ospedale, Treviglio 24047, Italy']]
[u'A Review of the 3D Designing of Scaffolds for Tissue Engineering with a Focus on Keratin Protein', ['Aarti Baliga', 'Shashikant Borkar'], u'September 26 2016', u'In tissue engineering scaffolds take the place of the natural extra cellular matrix (ECM). The natural ECM is the extracellular part of animal tissue that usually provides structural support to the animal cells in addition to performing various other important functions. The design aspect along with the choice of the material for the artificial scaffold is very crucial to cell differentiation, adhesion, proliferation, and the transport of the growth factors or other bio molecular signals. In addition to the material and design of the scaffolds, it is necessary to replicate the normal physiological situation if the scaffold has to function as an implant. The cells have to be located in the porous scaffold to form a three dimensional assembly. The article discusses the important factors to be considered while designing a scaffold for tissue engineering and regenerative medicine.', u'/manuscript/201609.0091/v1', [u'Biotechnology'], [u'Textile Manufactures Department, Veermata Jijabai Technological Institute (VJTI), Matunga,  Mumbai 400019, India']]
[u'Salidroside Regulates Inflammatory Response in Raw 264.7 Macrophages via TLR4/TAK1 and Ameliorates Inflammation in Alcohol Binge Drinking Induced Liver Injury', ['Peng Sun', 'Shun-Zong Song', 'Shuang Jiang', 'Xia Li', 'You-Li Yao', 'Yan-Ling Wu', 'Li-Hua Lian', 'Ji-Xing Nan'], u'September 27 2016', u'The current study was designed to investigate the anti-inflammatory effect of salidroside (SDS) and the underlying mechanism by using lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated RAW 264.7 macrophages in vitro and a mouse model of binge drinking induced liver injury in vivo. SDS downregulated protein expression of toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) and CD14. SDS inhibited LPS-triggered phosphorylation of LPS-activated kinase 1 (TAK1), p38, c-Jun terminal kinase (JNK), and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK). Degradation of I\u03baB-\u03b1 and nuclear translocation of nuclear factor (NF)-\u03baB were effectively blocked by SDS. SDS concentration-dependently suppressed LPS mediated inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) protein levels, as well as their downstream products, NO. SDS significantly inhibited protein secretion of interleukin (IL)-1\u03b2. Additionally C57BL/6 mice were orally administrated SDS for continuous 5 days, followed by three gavages of ethanol every 30 min. Alcohol binge drinking caused the increasing of hepatic lipid accumulation and serum transaminases levels. SDS pretreatment significantly alleviated liver inflammatory changes and serum transaminases levels. Further investigation indicated that SDS markedly decreased protein level of IL-1\u03b2 in serum. Taken together, these data implied that SDS inhibits liver inflammation both in vitro and in vivo, and may be a promising candidate for the treatment of inflammatory liver injury.', u'/manuscript/201609.0102/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], [u'Key Laboratory for Natural Resource of ChangBai Mountain & Functional Molecules, Ministry of Education, College of Pharmacy, Yanbian University, Yanji 133002, Chinab', u'Clinical Research Center, Yanbian University Hospital, Yanji 133002, China']]
[u'Newborn Care in the Home and Health Facility: Formative Findings for Intervention Research in Cambodia', ['Alessandra N. Bazzano', 'Leah D. Taub', 'Richard Oberhelman', 'Chivorn Var'], u'September 29 2016', u'Global coverage and scale up of interventions to reduce newborn mortality remains low, though progress has been achieved in improving newborn survival in many low-income settings. An important factor in the success of newborn health interventions, and moving to scale, is appropriate design of community-based programs and strategies for local implementation. We report the results of formative research undertaken to inform the design of a newborn health intervention in Cambodia. Information was gathered on newborn care practices over a period of three months using multiple qualitative methods of data collection in the primary health facility and home setting. Analysis of the data indicated important gaps, both at home and facility level, between recommended newborn care practices and those typical in the study area. The results of this formative research have informed strategies for behavior change and improving referral of sick infants in the subsequent implementation study. Collection and dissemination of data on newborn care practices from settings such as these can contribute to efforts to advance survival, growth and development of newborns for intervention research, and for future newborn health programming.', u'/manuscript/201609.0116/v1', [u'Pediatrics'], [u'Department of Global Community Health and Behavioral Sciences, Tulane School Public Health and Tropical Medicine, New Orleans, LA 70112, USA', u'Reproductive Health Association of Cambodia and National Institute of Public Health,  Phnom Penh, Cambodia']]
[u'Discovery of Potent Carbonic Anhydrase and Acetylcholinesterase Inhibitors: 2-Aminoindan \u03b2-Lactam Derivatives', ['Hayriye Genc', 'Ramazan Kalin', 'Zeynep Koksal', 'Nastaran Sadeghian', 'Umit M. Kocyigit', 'Mustafa Zengin', 'Ilhami Gulcin', 'Hasan Ozdemir'], u'September 30 2016', u'\u03b2-Lactams are pharmacologically important compounds because of their various biological uses, including antibiotic and so on. \u03b2-Lactams were synthesized from benzylidene-inden derivatives and acetoxyacetyl chloride. The inhibitory effect of these compounds was also examined for human carbonic anhydrase I and II (hCA I, and II) and acetylcholinesterase (AChE). The results reveal that \u03b2-lactams are inhibitors of hCA I, II and AChE. The Ki values of \u03b2-lactams (2a-k) were 0.44-6.29 nM against hCA I, 0.93-8.34 nM against hCA II, and 0.25-1.13 nM against AChE. Our findings indicate that \u03b2-lactams (2a-k) inhibit both CA isoenzymes and AChE at low nanomolar concentrations.', u'/manuscript/201609.0123/v1', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Arts and Sciences, Sakarya University, 54050 Sakarya, Turkey', u'Department of Basic Science, Faculty of Science, Erzurum Technical University, 25700 Erzurum, Turkey', u'Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Sciences, \xc4\xb0stanbul Medeniyet University, 34000 \xc4\xb0stanbul, Turkey', u'Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science, Atat\xc3\xbcrk University, 25030 Erzurum, Turkey', u'Vocational School of Health Services, Cumhuriyet University, 58140 Sivas, Turkey', u'Department of Zoology, College of Science, King Saud University, 12364 Riyadh, Saudi Arabia']]
[u'Screening of Immunosuppressive Factors for Identifying Breast Cancer Malignant Phenotypes Using mRNA Microarray Datasets', ['Zhuoqi Liu', 'Xiaohong Yang', 'Yunlei Song', 'Bo Huang', 'Yingquan Xiao', 'Weifeng Zhu', 'Lehan Yu', 'Xi Liu', 'Daya Luo', 'Fusheng Wan'], u'September 30 2016', u'To screen and validate immunosuppressive factors in luminal- and basal-like breast cancer cell lines and tissue samples associated with malignant phenotypes. The mRNA microarray datasets, GSE40057 and GSE1561, were downloaded and remodelled. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified. Enrichment analyses performed and the online resources, GOBO and Kaplan-Meier Plotter, were employed to screen for immunosuppressive factors associated with breast cancer malignant phenotypes. qRT-PCR and western blot were used to validate the expression of CD274 and IL8 in cell lines and immunohistochemical detected the MIF and VEGFA on tissue microarrays. The results showed that CD274 and IL8 were both upregulated in basal-like cell lines. That MIF expression was dramatically increased in patients with breast cancer metastases (p<0.05) and that VEGFA expression positively correlates with breast cancer pathologic grade (p<0.05).During the formation and development of breast cancer, immune-related genes are always activated, and immunosuppressive factors CD274, IL8, MIF and VEGFA are upregulated. Such molecules could be used as biomarkers for breast cancer prognosis. However, because individual immune-related factors can play several biological roles, the mechanistic relationship between immunosuppressive factors and breast cancer malignant phenotypes and the feasibility of their application as drug targets require further investigation.', u'/manuscript/201609.0124/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Medical College of Nanchang University, Nanchang 330006, China', u'Department of Pathology, Affiliated Infectious Diseases Hospital, Nanchang University,  Nanchang 330002, China', u'Jiangxi Province Key Laboratory of Tumor Pathogens and Molecular Pathology, Nanchang University, Nanchang 330006, China']]
[u'Inhibitory Interactions of Aspalathus linearis (Rooibos) Extracts and Compounds, Aspalathin and Z-2-(\u03b2-D-glucopyranosyloxy)-3-phenylpropenoic acid, on Cytochromes Metabolizing Hypoglycemic and Hypolipidemic Drugs', ['Oelfah Patel', 'Christo J.F. Muller', 'Elizabeth Joubert', 'Johan Louw', 'Bernd Rosenkranz', 'Charles Awortwe'], u'October 4 2016', u'Rooibos extract, due to its glucose and lipid lowering effects, has potential as a nutraceutical for improvement of metabolic dysfunction. Potential herb-drug interactions as a result of the use of natural products are of increasing concern. Cytochrome P450 enzymes, CYP2C8, CYP2C9 and CYP3A4, are important in the metabolism of hypoglycemic drugs such as thiazolidinediones (TZDs) and sulfonylureas, and hypocholesterolemic drugs such as atorvastatin. This study investigated the effects of rooibos extracts, prepared from \u201cunfermented\u201d and \u201cfermented\u201d rooibos plant material and two of the major bioactive compounds, Z-2-(\u03b2-D-glucopyranosyloxy)-3-phenylpropenoic acid (PPAG) and aspalathin (ASP), on Vivid\xae recombinant CYP450 enzymes. Unfermented (GRT) and fermented (FRE) rooibos extract inhibited the activity of CYP2C8 (7.69 \xb1 8.85 \xb5g/ml and 8.93 \xb1 8.88 \xb5g/ml, respectively) and CYP3A4 (31.33 \xb1 4.69 \xb5g/ml and 51.44 \xb1 4.31 \xb5g/ml, respectively) based on their respective IC50 concentrations. Both extracts dose- and time-dependently inhibited CYP2C8 activity, but only time-dependently inhibited CYP2C9. CYP3A4 showed concentration-dependent inhibition by ASP, GRT and FRE at 25, 50 and 100 \xb5g/ml concentrations. ASP, GRT and FRE time-dependently inhibited CYP3A4 activity with GRT and FRE showing a more potent time-dependent inhibition, comparable to erythromycin. These findings suggest that herb-drug interactions may occur when nutraceuticals containing rooibos extracts are co-administered with hypoglycemic drugs such as TZDs, sulfonylureas and dyslipidemic drug, atorvastatin.', u'/manuscript/201610.0007/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], [u'Biomedical Research and Innovation Platform, South African Medical Research Council, P.O. Box 19070, Tygerberg, 7505, South Africa', u'Post-Harvest and Wine Technology Division, Agricultural Research Council, Infruitec-Nietvoorbij, Private Bag X5026, Stellenbosch, 7599, South Africa', u'Department of Food Science, Stellenbosch University, Private Bag X1, Matieland, 7602, South Africa', u'Division of Clinical Pharmacology, Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, University of Stellenbosch, P.O. Box 241, Cape Town, 8000, South Africa']]
[u'Socio Environmental and Haematological Profile of Landfill Residents (S\xe3o Jorge Landfill \u2013 Sao Paulo \u2013 Brazil)', ['Vivianni Wanderley', 'Fernando Luiz Affonso Fonseca', 'Andre Vala Quiaios', 'Jose Nuno Domingues', 'Susana Paixao', 'Joao Figueiredo', 'Ana Ferreira', 'Cleonice de Almeida Pinto', 'Odair Ramos da Silva', 'Rogerio Alvarenga', 'Amaury Machi Junior', 'Eriane Justo Luiz Savoia', 'Rodrigo Daminello Raimundo'], u'October 4 2016', u'We are experiencing an unprecedented urbanization process that alongside with physical, social and economic developments is having a significant impact on population\u2019s health. Due to higher apprehensions of pollution, violence and poverty, our modern cities no longer ensure a good quality of life so they become unhealthy environments. This study aims to measure the socio-environmental and hematologic profile of residents of Santo Andr\xe9\u2019s landfill \u2013 \u201cBairro Esp\xedrito Santo\u201d by using the contextualization of the studied area. The research method is Observational type and from Retrospective cohort and by convenience sampling in Santo Andr\xe9 in the Greater ABC region. The study determined a socio environmental profile and the hematologic diseases screening related to a close location to the landfill. The disease manifests itself within a broad spectrum of symptoms that causes changes in blood count parameters. The full blood counts analysis was performed, indicating that the blood counts of residents living near the landfill \xa0led to positive hematological changes and diseases like Leukopenia, Anemia, Neutropenia and lymphocytosis were the most common changes. However it is considered that the proof of the relation of cause- effect to environmental exposures that may trigger chronic manifestations in humans requires specific studies that are often complicated.', u'/manuscript/201610.0005/v1', [u'Other'], [u'Environmental Health Management Department \u2013ABC MedSchool, Santo Andr\xe9, SP, Brazil; laboratoriofmabc@yahoo.com.br', u'Environmental Health Management Department \u2013ABC MedSchool, Santo Andr\xe9, SP, Brazil.', u'Biological Sciences Department \u2013 Institute of Environmental, Chemistry and Farmaceutical Sciences \u2013 Federal University of S\xe3o Paulo, Diadema, SP, Brazil', u'Environmental health Department \u2013 IPC, EsTesC, Coimbra Health School, Coimbra, Portugal', u'Complementary Sciences Department - IPC, EsTesC, Coimbra Health School, Coimbra, Portugal', u'Environmental Health Management Department \u2013ABC MedSchool, Santo Andr\xe9, SP, Brazil']]
[u'Bio-Resource Exchange: Study of Prevalence of Antibody Donation and Development of a Web Portal to Facilitate it', ['Sandeep Subramanian', 'Madhavi Ganapathiraju'], u'October 5 2016', u'Bio-molecular reagents like antibodies required in experimental biology are expensive and their effectiveness, among other things, is critical to the success of the experiment. Although such resources are sometimes donated by one investigator to another through personal communication between the two, there is no previous study to our knowledge on the extent of such donations, nor a central platform that directs resource seekers to donors. In this paper, we describe, to our knowledge, a first attempt at building a web-portal titled Bio-Resource Exchange that attempts to bridge this gap between resource seekers and donors in the domain of experimental biology. Users on this portal can request for or donate antibodies, cell-lines and DNA Constructs. This resource could also serve as a crowd-sourced database of resources for experimental biology. Further, in order to index donations outside of our portal, we mined scientific articles to find instances of donations of antibodies and attempted to extract information about these donations at the finest granularity. Specifically, we extracted the name of the donor, his/her affiliation and the name of the antibody for every donation by parsing the acknowledgements sections of articles. To extract annotations at this level, we propose two approaches \u2013 a rule based algorithm and a bootstrapped relation learning algorithm. The algorithms extracted donor names, affiliations and antibody names with average accuracies of 57% and 62% respectively. We also created a dataset of 50 expert-annotated acknowledgements sections that will serve as a gold standard dataset to evaluate extraction algorithms in the future. Contact: madhavi@pitt.edu, madhavi@cs.cmu.edu Database URL: http://tonks.dbmi.pitt.edu/brx Supplementary information: Supplementary data are available at Database online.', u'/manuscript/201610.0012/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Language Technologies Institute, Carnegie Mellon University', u'Language Technologies Institute, Carnegie Mellon University and Department of Biomedical Informatics, and Intelligent Systems Program, University of Pittsburgh']]
[u'Complementariness and Functional Parcellation of Neurotrophin Actions on the Oculomotor System', ['Beatriz Benitez-Temino', 'Maria A. Davis-Lopez De Carrizosa', 'Sara Morcuende', 'Esperanza R. Matarredona', 'Rosa R. de la Cruz', 'Angel M Pastor'], u'October 7 2016', u'Neurotrophins play a principal role in neuronal survival and differentiation during development, but also in the maintenance of appropriate adult neuronal circuits and phenotypes. In the oculomotor system, we have demonstrated that neurotrophins are key regulators of developing and adult neuronal properties, but with peculiarities depending on each neurotrophin. For instance, the administration of NGF, BDNF or NT-3 protects neonatal extraocular motoneurons from cell death after axotomy, but only NGF and BDNF prevent the downregulation in ChAT. In the adult, in vivo recordings of axotomized extraocular motoneurons have demonstrated that the delivery of NGF, BDNF or NT-3 recovers different components of the firing discharge activity of these cells, with some particularities in the case of NGF. All neurotrophins have also synaptotrophic activity, although to different degrees. Accordingly, neurotrophins can restore the axotomy-induced alterations acting selectively on different properties of the motoneuron. In this review we summarize these evidences and discuss them in the context of other motor systems.', u'/manuscript/201610.0014/v1', [u'Physiology'], [u'Departamento de Fisiolog\xeda, Facultad de Biolog\xeda, Universidad de Sevilla, Spain']]
[u'Health-Related Quality of Life and Lifestyle among Elderly Individuals Living Alone: A Cross-Sectional Study in an Urban Areas of Shaanxi Province, China', ['Ning Liu', 'Nadine E. Andrew', 'Dominique A. Cadilhac', 'CaiYan Wang', 'Yan Li', 'Zhe Li', 'Xuewen Yu'], u'October 7 2016', u'Recent social and economic reforms in China have resulted in an increase in the number of elderly Chinese living alone in Urban areas. The aim of this study was to describe the HRQoL of elderly Chinese individuals living alone in urban areas of the Shaanxi province and associated factors. Data were collected using a cross-sectional population-based survey. Older adults aged 65 years or more and living alone (without the support of a younger adult) were randomly sampled. HRQoL was measured using the 36-item Short Form Questionnaire. Multivariable linear regression was used to assess for factors associated with mental and physical health scores. 442 elderly Chinese completed the survey. Mean age was 74 years and 58.6% were female, actors independently associated with reduced MCS scores were older age, not being married and having a medical history of cancer, urinary tract disease, fractures or gastrointestinal disorders. Not being married and having hypertension were independently associated with poorer PCS scores. This is the first study to describe the HRQoL of the elderly living alone in urban areas of Shaanxi, China. Poor HRQoL in the elderly population was mainly influenced by chronic diseases and demographic factors.', u'/manuscript/201610.0019/v1', [u'Nursing & Health Studies'], [u'The Nursing Faculty, Zhu Hai Campus of ZunYi Medical University; Zhu Hai 519090, P. R. China', u'Translational Public Health Unit, Stroke and Ageing Research, Department of Medicine, School of Clinical Sciences, Monash University, Monash Health Research Precinct (MHRP) Building 1/,43-51 Kanooka Grove, Clayton VIC 3168', u'Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, 245 Burgundy St, Heidelberg VIC 3084, Australia', u'The First Affiliate Hospital of Xi\u2019an Jiaotong University. Xi\u2019an, Shaanxi Province 710061, P.R. China', u'School of Nursing, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University. Hong Kong', u'Network Operations Management Center, Zhu Hai Campus of ZunYi Medical University; Zhu Hai 519090, P. R. China']]
[u'Human Caveolin-1 a Potent Inhibitor for Prostate Cancer Therapy: A Computational\xa0Approach', ['Uzma Khanam', 'Pallavi Somvanshi', 'Shafiul Haque', 'Balwant Kishan Malik', 'Bhawna Rathi'], u'October 7 2016', u'Caveolin-1 (Cav-1) is 22 kDa caveolae protein, acts as a scaffold within caveolar membranes. It interacts with alpha subunits of G-protein and thereby regulates their activity. Earlier studies reported elevated or up-regulated levels of caveolin-1 in the serum of prostate cancer patients. Secreted Cav-1 promotes angiogenesis, cell proliferation and anti-apoptotic activities in prostate cancer patients. Cav-1 upregulation is mainly related to prostate cancer metastasis. Keeping above facts in view, the present study was designed to explore Cav-1 as a target for prostate cancer therapy using computational approach. Molecular docking, structural base molecular modelling and molecular dynamics simulations were performed to investigate Cav-1 inhibitors. A predictive model was generated and validated to establish a stable structure. ZINC database of biogenic compounds was used for induced fit docking (IFD) and high throughput virtual screening. The H-bond interactions of the compounds with active site residues of Cav-1 were estimated by IFD and 100 ns long molecular dynamic simulations. The reported compounds showed significant binding and thus can be considered as potent therapeutic inhibitors of Cav-1. This study provides a valuable insight into biochemical interactions of Cav-1 for therapeutic applications and warrants for experimental validation of the predicted \u2018active(s)\u2019.', u'/manuscript/201610.0016/v1', [u'Oncology & Oncogenics'], [u'Centre for Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, Amity Institute of Biotechnology, Amity University (Noida Campus), Noida-201301, India', u'Department of Biotechnology, TERI University, 10 Institutional Area, Vasant kunj, New Delhi-110070, India', u'Department of Biosciences, Jamia Millia Islamia (A Central University), New Delhi-110025, India', u'Research & Scientific Studies Unit, College of Nursing & Allied Health Sciences, Jazan University, Jazan-45142, Saudi Arabia', u'Department of Biotechnology, Sharda University, Greater Noida-201306, India']]
[u'Transcriptome Profiling Analysis of Wolf Spider Pardosa pseudoannulata (Araneae: Lycosidae) after Cadmium Exposure', ['Chang-chun Li', 'Yong Wang', 'Guo-yuan Li', 'Yueli Yun', 'Yu-jun Dai', 'Jian Chen', 'Yu Peng'], u'October 8 2016', u"Pardosa pseudoannulata is one of the most common wandering spiders in agricultural fields and a potentially good bioindicator for heavy metal contamination. However, little is known about the mechanism by which spiders respond to heavy metals at the molecular level. In this study, high-throughput transcriptome sequencing was employed to characterize the de novo transcriptome of the spiders and to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) after cadmium exposure. We obtained 60,489 assembled unigenes, 18,773 of which were annotated in the public databases. Ultimately, 3450 cDNA simple sequence repeats were identified and validated as potential molecular markers in the unigenes. A total of 2939, 2491 and 3759 DEGs were detected among the three libraries of two Cd-treated groups and the control. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that metabolism processes and digestive system function were predominately enriched in response to Cd stress. At the cellular and molecular levels, significantly enriched pathways in lysosomes and phagosomes as well as replication, recombination and repair demonstrated that oxidative damage resulted from Cd exposure. Based on the selected DEGs, certain critical genes involved in defence and detoxification were analysed. These results may elucidate the molecular mechanism underlying spiders' responses to heavy metal stress.", u'/manuscript/201610.0022/v1', [u'Animal Sciences & Zoology'], [u'Hubei Collaborative Innovation Center for Green Transformation of Bio-Resources,  College of Life Sciences, Hubei University, Wuhan 430062, China', u'Hubei Key Laboratory of Quality Control of Characteristic Fruits and Vegetables,  Hubei Engineering University, Xiaogan 432000, China']]
[u'Zinc Finger and X-Linked Factor (ZFX) Binds to Human SET Transcript 2 Promoter and Transactivates SET Expression', ['Siliang Xu', 'Shi-Wen Jiang', 'Fengbiao Guo', 'Tristan Senkowski', 'Jinping Li', 'Haibin Chen', 'Alberto Romero', 'Yugui Cui', 'Jiayin Liu'], u'October 8 2016', u"SET protein carries out multiple functions including those for protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) inhibition, histone modification, DNA repair and gene regulation. SET overexpression has been detected in brain neurons of Alzheimer's disease patients, follicle theca cells of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) patients, and ovarian cancer cells, indicating that SET may play a pathological role for these disorders. SET transcript 2, produced by a specific promoter, represents a major transcript variant in different cell types. In this study, we characterized the transcriptional activation of human SET transcript 2 promoter in HeLa cells. Promoter deletion experiments and co-transfection assays indicated that ZFX, the Zinc finger and X-linked transcription factor, was able to transactivate the SET promoter. A proximal promoter region containing four ZFX-binding sites was found to be critical for the ZFX-mediated transactivation. Mutagenesis study indicated that the site located closest to the transcription start site accounted for most of the ZFX-mediated transactivity. Manipulation of ZFX levels by overexpression or siRNA knockdown confirmed the significance and specificity of the ZFX-mediated SET promoter activation. Chromatin immunoprecipitation results verified the binding of ZFX to its cognate site in the SET promoter. These findings have led to identification of ZFX as an upstream factor regulating SET gene expression. More studies are required to define the in vivo significance of this mechanism, and specifically, its implication for several benign and malignant diseases related to SET dysregulation.", u'/manuscript/201610.0021/v1', [u'Genetics'], [u'The State Key Laboratory of Reproductive Medicine, Clinical Center of Reproductive Medicine,  First Affiliated Hospital, Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing 210029, China', u'Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Second Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou 325027, China', u'Department of Biomedical Science, Mercer University School of Medicine, Savannah, GA 31404, USA', u'Department of Histology and Embryology, Shantou University Medical College, Shantou 515000, China']]
[u'A Protocol for Identifying Potentially Repurposable Drugs Using Online Tools and Databases', ['Aditi Chattopadhyay', 'Madhavi K. Ganapathiraju'], u'October 9 2016', u'Traditional methods for discovery and development of new drugs can be a very time-consuming and expensive process because it includes several stages such as compound identification, pre-clinical and clinical trials before the drug is approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Therefore, drug repurposing, namely using currently FDA-approved drugs as therapeutics for other diseases than what they are originally prescribed for, is emerging to be a faster and more cost-effective alternative to current drug discovery methods. In this paper, we have described a three-step in silico protocol for analyzing transcriptomics data using online databases and bioinformatics tools for identifying potentially repurposable drugs. The efficacy of this protocol was evaluated by comparing its predictions with the findings of two case studies of recently reported repurposed drugs: HIV treating drug Zidovudine for the treatment of Dry Age-Related Macular Degeneration and the antidepressant Imipramine for Small-Cell Lung Carcinoma. The proposed protocol successfully identified the published findings, thus demonstrating the efficacy of this method. In addition, it also yielded several novel predictions that have not yet been published, including the finding that Imipramine could potentially treat Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), a disease that currently does not have any treatment or vaccine. Since this in-silico protocol is simple to use and does not require advanced computer skills, we believe any motivated participant with access to these databases and tools would be able to apply it to large datasets to identify other potentially repurposable drugs in the future.', u'/manuscript/201610.0025/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], [u'Grade 12, Upper St. Clair High School, Pittsburgh, PA 15241, USA', u'Department of Biomedical Informatics, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15260, USA', u'Intelligent Systems Program, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15260, USA']]
[u'Impaired Adipose Tissue Expansion Caused by LXR Activation is Associated with Insulin Resistance in HFD Mice', ['Yueting Dong', 'Zhiye Xu', 'Ziyi Zhang', 'Xueyao Yin', 'Xihua Lin', 'Qianqian Pan', 'Hong Li', 'Fenping Zheng'], u'October 10 2016', u'Liver X receptors (LXR) are deemed as potential drug targets for atherosclerosis, whereas a role in adipose tissue expansion and its relation to insulin sensitivity remains unclear. To assess the metabolic effects of LXR activation, C57BL/6 mice on a high-fat diet (HFD) were treated with the dual LXR\u03b1/\u03b2 agonist T0901317 (30 mg/kg per day) for 3 weeks. Differentiated 3T3-L1 was used for analysing the effect of T0901317 on glucose uptake.T0901317 reduced fat mass, accompanied by a massive fatty liver and lower adipokine levels in circulation of HFD mice. Increased adipocyte apoptosis and macrophage infiltration were found in epididymal fat of T0901317-treated HFD mice. In addition, T0901317 treatment promoted basal lipolysis, but blunted the anti-lipolytic action of insulin. Furthermore, LXR activation antagonized PPAR\u03b3 target genes in epididymal fat and PPAR\u03b3-PPRE binding activity in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. Although the glucose tolerance was comparable to that in vehicle-treated HFD mice, the insulin tolerance was significantly decreased in T0901317-treated HFD mice, indicating decreased insulin sensitivity by T0901317 administration, and which was further supported by impaired insulin signalling found in epididymal fat and decreased insulin-induced glucose uptake in 3T3-L1 by T0901317administration. These findings reveal that LXR activation impairs adipose expansion which contributes to decreased insulin sensitivity.', u'/manuscript/201610.0027/v1', [u'Physiology'], [u'Department of Endocrinology, Sir Run Run Shaw Hospital Affiliated with School of Zhejiang University,  3 East Qingchun Road, Hangzhou 310016, China', u'Biomedical Research Center and Key Laboratory of Biotherapy of Zhejiang Province,  Sir Run Run Shaw Hospital Affiliated with School of Zhejiang University, 3 East Qingchun Road,  Hangzhou 310016, China']]
[u'Particulate Matter and Respiratory Symptoms among Adults Living in Windhoek, Namibia; a Cross Sectional Descriptive Study', ['Ndinomholo Hamatui', 'Caryl Beynon'], u'October 10 2016', u'The study aimed to estimate the prevalence of respiratory symptoms and to assess respiratory health risks associated with Particulate Matter (PM) exposure among the residents of Windhoek, Namibia. Objectives: To measure particulate pollution concentration in Windhoek through monitoring of particulate matter concentration and to identify any associations between particulate pollution, individual location and respiratory health among the Windhoek resident\u2019s. Methods: an adapted standardized self-administered questionnaire was used to collect respiratory health related data as well as previous exposure, while PM monitoring was done using ASTM D1739 reference method. Results: A high prevalence was observed for cough (43%), breathlessness (25%), and Asthma (11.2%). PM was found to be a significant risk factor for episode of cough and phlegm, while high PM exposure category had increased odds ratio for episode of phlegm and cough (OR: 2.5, 95% CI: 0.8-8.0). No association was observed between location and respiratory health outcomes. Conclusion: The study found high levels of PM concentration across all Windhoek suburbs which were above the German, American and EPA. Enactment of legislation relating to the control and monitoring of PM related emissions at point of generation is required at country and city level.', u'/manuscript/201610.0030/v1', [u'Nursing & Health Studies'], [u'Department of Health Sciences, Namibia University of Science and Technology, Private Bag,  13388 Windhoek, Namibia', u'Laureate Online Education/University of Liverpool, Liverpool L69 3BX, UK']]
[u'Mercury Exposure and Heart Diseases', ['Giuseppe Genchi', 'Maria Stefania Sinicropi', 'Alessia Carocci', 'Graziantonio Lauria', 'Alessia Catalano'], u'October 10 2016', u'Environmental contamination has exposed humans to various metal agents, including mercury. It has been determined that mercury is not only harmful to the health of vulnerable populations such as pregnant women and children, but is also toxic to ordinary adults in various ways. For many years, mercury was used in a wide variety of human activities. Nowadays, the exposure to this metal from both natural and artificial sources is significantly increasing. Recent studies suggest that chronic exposure, even to low concentration levels of mercury, can cause cardiovascular, reproductive and developmental toxicity, neurotoxicity, nephrotoxicity, immunotoxicity, and carcinogenicity. Possible biological effects of mercury, including the relationship between mercury toxicity and diseases of the cardiovascular system, such as hypertension, coronary heart disease and myocardial infarction, are being studied. As heart rhythm and function are under autonomic nervous system control, it has been hypothesized that the neurotoxic effects of mercury might also impact cardiac autonomic function. Mercury exposure could have a long-lasting effect on cardiac parasympathetic activity and some evidence show that mercury exposure might affect heart rate variability, particularly early exposures in children. The mechanism by which mercury produces toxic effects on the cardiovascular system is not fully elucidated, but this mechanism is believed to involve an increase in oxidative stress. The exposure to mercury increases the production of free radicals, potentially because of the role of mercury in the Fenton reaction and a reduction in the activity of antioxidant enzymes, such as glutathione peroxidase. In this review we report an overview on the toxicity of mercury and focus our attention on the toxic effects on the cardiovascular system.', u'/manuscript/201610.0028/v1', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'Dipartimento di Farmacia e Scienze della Salute e della Nutrizione, Universit\xe0 della Calabria, 87036 Arcavacata di Rende (Cosenza), Italy', u'Dipartimento di Farmacia-Scienze del Farmaco, Universit\xe0 degli Studi di Bari \u201cA. Moro\u201d,  70125 Bari, Italy']]
[u'Using MODIS Data to Predict Regional Corn Yields', ['Ho-Young Ban', 'Kwang Soo Kim', 'No-Wook Park', 'Byun-Woo Lee'], u'October 13 2016', u'A simple approach was developed to predict corn yields using the MoDerate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) data product from two geographically separate major corn crop production regions: Illinois, USA and Heilongjiang, China. The MOD09A1 data product, which are 8-day interval surface reflectance data, were obtained from day of the year (DOY) 89 to 337 to calculate the leaf area index (LAI). The sum of the LAI from early in the season to a given date in the season [end of DOY (EOD)] was well fitted to a logistic function and represented seasonal changes in leaf area duration (LAD). A simple phenology model was derived to estimate the dates of emergence and maturity using the logistic function parameters b1 and b2, which represented the rate of increase in LAI and the date of maximum LAI, respectively. The phenology model predicted emergence and maturity dates fairly well, with root mean square error (RMSE) values of 6.3 and 4.9 days for the validation dataset, respectively. Two simple linear regression models (YP and YF) were established using LAD as the variable to predict corn yield; the yield model (YP) used LAD from predicted emergence to maturity, and the yield model (YF) used LAD for a predetermined period from DOY 89 to a particular EOD. When state/province corn yields for the validation dataset were predicted at DOY 321, near completion of the corn harvest, the YP model performed much better than the YF model, with RMSE values of 0.68 t/ha and 0.66 t/ha for Illinois and Heilongjiang, respectively. The YP model showed a similar or better performance, even for the much earlier yield prediction at DOY 257, compared to that of the YF model. In conclusion, the phenology and yield models were developed based only on logistic changes in remote sensing-derived LAD, and predicted phenological dates and corn yields with considerable accuracy and precision for the two regions selected for this study. However, these models must be examined for spatial portability in more diverse agro-climatic regions.', u'/manuscript/201610.0044/v1', [u'Agricultural Sciences & Agronomy'], [u'Department of Plant Science, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Seoul National University, 1 Gwanak-ro, Gwanak-gu, Seoul 08826, Korea', u'Department of Geoinformatic Engineering 4-311 & 4-309, Inha University, 100 Inha-ro, Nam-gu, Incheon 402-751, Korea', u'Research Institute of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Seoul National University, 1 Gwanak-ro, Gwanak-gu, Seoul 08826, Korea']]
[u'Two Genetic Codes: Repetitive Syntax for Active non-Coding RNAs; non-Repetitive Syntax for the DNA Archives', ['Guenther Witzany'], u'October 12 2016', u'Current knowledge of the RNA world indicates two different genetic codes being present throughout the living world. In contrast to non-coding RNAs that are built of repetitive nucleotide syntax, the sequences that serve as templates for proteins share \u2013 as main characteristics \u2013 a non-repetitive syntax. The differences in their syntax structure is coherent with the difference of the functions they represent. Whereas non-coding RNAs build groups that serve as regulatory tools in nearly all genetic processes, the coding sections represent the evolutionarily successful function of the genetic information storage medium. The DNA genomes themselves are rather inactive, whereas the non-coding RNA domain is highly active, even as non-random genetic innovation operators. This indicates that repetitive syntax is the essential pre-requisite for RNA interactions to install variable RNA-group-identities, whereas the non-repetitive syntax serves as a stable conservation tool for successful selection processes out of RNA-groups cooperation and competition. The interaction opportunities of RNA loops with repetitive syntax are higher than with non-repetitive ones. Interestingly, these two genetic codes resemble the function of all natural languages, i.e., (a) everyday language use for organization and coordination of biotic group behavior, and (b) artificial (instrumental) language use for conservation of blueprints for complex protein-body constructions.', u'/manuscript/201610.0041/v1', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Telos - Philosophische Praxis, Vogelsangstrasse 18c, 5111-Buermoos, Austria']]
[u'A Review of Tropical Plants with Antifungal Activities against Plant Fungal Pathogens', ['Dewa Ngurah Suprapta'], u'October 13 2016', u'Abstract Plant fungal pathogens are frequently found as one of limiting factors for crop production. More than 10,000 species of fungi can cause disease in plants. To control the diseases, many farmers are still rely on the use of chemical fungicides, however most synthetic fungicides can cause acute toxicity, and some cause chronic toxicity as well. Thus, an appropriate technological improvement towards a more effective use of natural resources is required in agriculture to develop environmentally friendly sustainable farming system. This paper highlights the potential of extracts of tropical plants as antifungal agent to control plant fungal diseases. Information and data presented in this paper are mainly derived from selected and related references that previously published in the scientific journals. Many higher plants of tropical origin with fungicidal activities and their potential for fungal disease control of agricultural crops have been studied, however most of the studies have been done under in vitro condition. Some plant extracts showed strong antifungal activities on in vitro as well as in vivo tests, but some plant extracts showed significant antifungal activities on in vitro test, but did not obvious on in vivo tests. A great variation in antifungal activities were shown by plants extracts of different species and plant parts, in one hand, and on the other hand, variation was also observed on the responses of different fungal species to the same plant extract. Since the purpose of the use of plant extract is to control plant fungal diseases, the field trial is needed to ensure the stability of efficacy of certain plant extract. In addition, isolation and identification of active substances in the extracts is needed to assess possible mode of action and side effect of their use.', u'/manuscript/201610.0049/v1', [u'Agricultural Sciences & Agronomy'], [u'Laboratory of Biopesticide, Faculty of Agriculture Udayana University, Jl. PB. Sudirman, Denpasar \u2013 Bali- Indonesia']]
[u'Characterization of Extracellular Vesicles Isolated from Plasma and Urine of Healthy Donors and  Cancer Patients', ['Annika Freund', 'Corinna Plattfaut', 'Antje Mueller', 'Gabriela Riemekasten', 'Christian Haas', 'Frank Gieseler'], u'October 14 2016', u'Extracellular vesicles (EVs) were detected and quantified in blood and urine of healthy donors and cancer patients using serial centrifugation protocols and high- resolution flow cytometry. EVs were phenotypically characterized by measuring exposure of phosphatidylserine (PS) and activities of FX and TFPI as well as functionally analyzed for tenase activity, ERK phosphorylation and tumor cell migration. Plasmatic and urinary EVs contained mainly microparticles (MPs), accompanied by low amounts of exosomes or apoptotic bodies. In contrast to plasmatic MPs, urinary MPs from healthy donors did not expose PS, which argues for endothelial cells of the urinary tract as a source. In cancer patients, however, we found urinary MPs presenting PS. Their amount correlated positively with albumin excretion. This suggests that the glomerular membrane is leaky for plasmatic MPs as well as albumin; thus in the urine of cancer patients the EVs presenting PS might be obtained from the plasma. Positive correlations between tenase activity, ERK phosphorylation and potency to induce tumor cell migration suggest that TF-presenting EVs form PAR- activating tenase complexes with FVII and FX, activate PAR-2, induce ERK phosphorylation and trigger tumor cell migration. Our results representing proof-of-principle suggest that further studies in defined cancers and stages are warranted.', u'/manuscript/201610.0056/v1', [u'Oncology & Oncogenics'], [u'Experimental Oncology, Ethics and Palliative Care in Oncology, University Hospital and Medical School, UKSH, Luebeck 23562, Germany', u'Clinic for Rheumatology, University Hospital and Medical School, UKSH, Luebeck 23562, Germany', u'Experimental Nephrology, University Hospital and Medical School, UKSH, Luebeck 23562, Germany']]
[u'Functional and Regulatory Profiling of Energy Metabolism in Fission Yeast', ['Michal Malecki', 'Danny A. Bitton', 'Maria Rodriguez-Lopez', 'Charalampos Rallis', 'Noelia Garcia Cavalia', 'Graeme C. Smith', 'Jurg Bahler'], u'October 14 2016', u'Background:\xa0 The control of energy metabolism is fundamental for cell growth and function, and anomalies are implicated in complex diseases and ageing. It is important for cells to carefully tune metabolic pathways to optimize their function in response to different nutrient or physiological conditions. Metabolism in yeast cells can be easily manipulated by supplying different carbon sources: on glucose yeast rapidly proliferates by fermentation, analogous to tumour cells growing by aerobic glycolysis, whereas on non-fermentable carbon sources metabolism shifts towards respiration. Results:\xa0 We screened deletion libraries of fission yeast to identify over 200 genes required for respiratory growth. The growth medium and auxotrophic mutants strongly influenced respiratory metabolism. Most genes uncovered in the mutant screens have not been implicated in respiration in budding yeast. We applied gene expression profiling approaches to compare steady-state fermentative and respiratory growth and to analyse the dynamic adaptation to respiratory growth. The transcript levels of most genes functioning in key energy metabolism pathways were coherently tuned, reflecting anticipated differences in metabolic flows between fermenting and respiring cells. We show that the acetyl-CoA synthase, rather than the citrate lyase, is essential for acetyl-CoA synthesis in fission yeast. We also investigated the transcriptional response to mitochondrial damage by genetic or chemical perturbations, defining a retrograde response that involves the concerted regulation of distinct groups of nuclear genes that may avert harm from mitochondrial malfunction. Conclusions:\xa0 These systematic and targeted analyses provide a rich framework of the genetic and regulatory basis of fundamental metabolic states to guide future studies on energy metabolism in fission yeast and beyond. Our study pinpoints weaknesses of commonly used auxotroph mutants for investigating energy metabolism. As a model for cellular energy regulation, fission yeast provides an attractive and complementary system to budding yeast.', u'/manuscript/201610.0054/v1', [u'Genetics'], [u'Research Department of Genetics, Evolution & Environment and Institute of Healthy Ageing, University College London, London WC1E 6BT, UK', u'Department of Genetics and Biotechnology, Faculty of Biology, University of Warsaw,  Warsaw 00-927, Poland', u'Current address: School of Health, Sport and Biosciences, University of East London, London E15 4LZ, UK']]
[u'Impact of Soft Tissue Pathophysiology in the Development and Maintenance of Bisphosphonate Related Osteonecrosis of the Jaw (BRONJ)', ['Thomas Ziebart', 'Sebastian Blatt', 'Junho Jung', 'Andreas Pabst', 'Christian Walter', 'Frank Halling', 'Paul Heymann', 'Andreas Neff', 'Leonardo Righesso'], u'October 15 2016', u'Since the first description of bisphosphonate-related osteonecrosis of the jaw (BRONJ) numerous research groups have focused on possible pathological mechanisms including the suppression of the bone turnover of the jaw, antiangiogenic effects and soft tissue toxicity. In our review we focused on summarizing the role of the soft tissues in the development and progression of BRONJ. The biological behavior of fibroblasts can be significantly influenced by bisphosphonates (BP) such as a concentration dependent reduction of cell viability. High concentrations of BP can induce apoptosis and necrosis of the cells. Comparable effects could be detected for keratinocytes. Compared to non-nitrogen containing bisphosphonates nitrogen-containing BP have worse effects on cell biology by blocking the mevalonate pathway. Next to this the cell architecture and the expression levels of several genes and proteins are significantly disturbed by BP. These inhibitory effects of BP are in accordance with BP related reduced angiogenesis and neovascularization and could underline the hypothesis that inhibition of fibroblasts and keratinocytes results in delayed wound healing and can induce and trigger BRONJ.', u'/manuscript/201610.0060/v1', [u'Dentistry'], [u'Department of Maxillofacial Surgery, University Hospital, Baldingerstra\xdfe, D-35043 Marburg, Germany', u'Department of Maxillofacial Surgery, University Medical Center Mainz, Augustusplatz 2,  D-55131 Mainz, Germany', u'Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Mediplus Clinic, Haifa-Allee 20, D-55128 Mainz, Germany']]
[u'Views and Preferences for Nicotine Products as an Alternative to Smoking: A Focus Group Study of People Living with Mental Disorders', ['Carla Meurk', 'Pauline Ford', 'Ratika Sharma', 'Lisa Fitzgerald', 'Coral Gartner'], u'October 17 2016', u'Aims and Background: People living with mental disorders experience a disproportionately higher burden of tobacco-related disease than the general population. Long-term substitution with less harmful nicotine products could reduce the tobacco-related harm among this population. This study investigated the views and preferences of people with mental health disorders about different nicotine products and their use as long-term substitutes for cigarettes. Methods: Semi-structured focus group discussion followed by a brief questionnaire. The discussion transcripts were analysed for content and themes and quantitative data summarised with descriptive statistics. Results: Twenty-nine participants took part in four focus groups. Vaping devices were the most acceptable nicotine products discussed, however preferences for nicotine products were idiosyncratic and varied along aesthetic, pragmatic, sensory and symbolic dimensions. The concept of tobacco harm reduction was unfamiliar to participants, however they generally agreed with the logic of replacing cigarettes with less harmful nicotine products. Barriers to activating tobacco harm reduction included the symbolism of smoking and quitting; the importance placed on health; the consumer appeal of alternatives; and cost implications. Discussion and Conclusion: Engaging this population in tobacco harm reduction options will require communication that challenges black and white thinking (a conceptual framework in which smoking cigarettes or quitting all nicotine are the only legitimate options) as in practice this serves to support the continuance of smoking. Consumers should be encouraged to trial a range of nicotine products to find the most acceptable alternative to smoking that reduces health harms. Providing incentives to switch to nicotine products could help overcome barriers to using less harmful nicotine products among mental health consumers.', u'/manuscript/201610.0065/v1', [u'Nursing & Health Studies'], [u'Policy and Epidemiology Group, Queensland Centre for Mental Health Research,  Locked Bag 500, Archerfield QLD 4018, Australia', u'School of Public Health, The University of Queensland, Herston QLD 4006, Australia', u'School of Dentistry, The University of Queensland, Herston QLD 4006, Australia', u'UQ Centre for Clinical Research, The University of Queensland,  Herston QLD 4006, Australia']]
[u'Coupling Fine-Scale Root and Canopy Structure Using Ground-Based Remote Sensing', ['Brady S. Hardiman', 'Christopher M. Gough', 'John R. Butnor', 'Gil Bohrer', 'Matteo Detto', 'Peter S. Curtis'], u'October 21 2016', u'Ecosystem physical structure, defined by the quantity and spatial distribution of biomass, influences a range of ecosystem functions. Remote sensing tools permit the non-destructive characterization of canopy and root features, potentially providing opportunities to link above- and belowground structure at fine spatial resolution in functionally meaningful ways. To test this possibility, we employed ground-based portable canopy lidar (PCL) and ground penetrating radar (GPR) along co-located transects in forested sites spanning multiple stages of ecosystem development and, consequently, of structural complexity. We examined canopy and root structural data for coherence at multiple spatial scales \u2264 10 m within each site using wavelet analysis. Forest sites varied substantially in vertical canopy and root structure, with leaf area index and root mass more evenly distributed by height and depth, respectively, as forests aged. In all sites, above- and belowground structure, characterized as mean maximum canopy height and root mass, exhibited significant coherence at a scale of 3.5-4 meters, and results suggest that the scale of coherence may increase with stand age. Our findings demonstrate that canopy and root structure are linked at characteristic spatial scales, which provides the basis to optimize scales of observation. Our study highlights the potential, and limitations, for fusing lidar and radar technologies to quantitatively couple above- and belowground ecosystem structure.', u'/manuscript/201610.0088/v1', [u'Ecology'], [u'Department of Forestry and Natural Resources & Division of Environmental and Ecological Engineering, Purdue University, West Layafette, IN 47907, USA', u'Department of Evolution, Ecology and Organismal Biology, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH 43210, USA', u'Department of Biology and Environmental Studies, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA 23284, USA', u'USDA Forest Service, Southern Research Station, 81 Carrigan Drive, Burlington, VT 05405, USA', u'Department of Civil, Environmental and Geodetic Science, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH 43210, USA', u'Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, Unit 9100, Box 0948, DPO AA 34002-9998, USA']]
[u'Determination of Plant Density on Groundnut (Arachis hypogaea L.) Intercropped with Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L. Moench) at Fadis and Erer of Eastern Hararghe', ['Habte Berhanu', 'Adugna Hunduma', 'Gazu Degefa', 'Zeleke Legesse', 'Fuad Abdulselam', 'Fiqadu Tadese'], u'October 20 2016', u'In eastern part of Ethiopia groundnut is very commonly intercropped with sorghum. Even though intercropping of sorghum with groundnut is practiced in the eastern part of Ethiopia the population density at what ratio should not be known. Therefore determining the population ratio is found to be crucial to draw management options.\xa0 The study was conducted at two locations at Fadis (on station) and Babile (sub- station).\xa0 Sorghum variety (Teshale) and groundnut (Fetene) were used as planting materials. All agronomic data were collected and analyzed by using GenStat software. Significant different were obtained among the treatments. The research result showed that, there were significance difference for both sorghum and ground nut yield per hectare in the years (2014 and 2015) among treatments. The result over time(in 2014 and 2015) at Fadis and Erer showed that the highest sorghum and groundnut yield per hectare were obtained/harvested from the intra row spacing of 25cmx20cm and 30cmx20cm intercropping sorghum with ground nut system with (1.27 and 1.31) respectively. The highest LER (1.31) and highest GMV (10218.00 ETBr/ha) were obtained from the intercropping of 30cmx20cm (Sorghum & groundnut). Clearly showed that, with intercropping of sorghum and Groundnut, it is possible to produce additional yield of sorghum without significant reduction in groundnut yield. As a result of this, the intra spacing of the main crop (sorghum) 25cm and 30cm and for the subsidiary crop (groundnut) 20cm was recommended for further production in the study areas of eastern Harerghe zone and similar agro-ecologies.', u'/manuscript/201610.0084/v1', [u'Agricultural Sciences & Agronomy'], [u'Pulse and Oil Crop Research Division, Fedis Agricultural Research Center, Harar, Ethiopia']]
[u'UPEI-400, a Conjugate of Lipoic Acid and Scopoletin, Mediates Neuroprotection in a Rat Model of Ischemia/Reperfusion', ['Barry J. Connell', 'Monique C. Saleh', 'Desikan Rajagopal', 'Tarek M. Saleh'], u'October 20 2016', u'Background: Previously, our laboratory has provided evidence that pre-administration of the antioxidant, lipoic acid covalently bonded to various naturally occurring antioxidants, enhanced neuroprotective capacity compared to the administration of lipoic acid on its own. The naturally occurring compound scopoletin, a coumarin derivative, has been shown in various in vitro studies to have both antioxidant and anti-inflammatory mechanism of actions. To date, the effect of scopoletin on neuronal cell death in an in vivo model of ischemia or ischemia-reperfusion has not been investigated. Therefore, the present investigation was designed to determine if scopoletin on its own, or a co-drug consisting of lipoic acid and scopoletin covalent bond, named UPEI-400, would be capable of demonstrating a similar neuroprotective efficacy. Methods: Using a rodent model of stroke in male rats (anesthetized with Inactin\xae; 100 mg/kg, iv), the middle cerebral artery was permanently occluded for 6 hours (pMCAO), or in separate animals, occluded for 30 min followed by 5.5 hrs of reperfusion (ischemia/reperfusion; I/R). Results: Pre-administration of either scopoletin or UPEI-400 significantly decreased infarct volume in the I/R model (p<0.05), but not in the pMCAO model of stroke. However, UPEI-400 was ~1000 times more potent as compared to scopoletin on its own. The optimal dose of UPEI-400 was then injected during the occlusion and at several time points during reperfusion and significant neuroprotection was observed for up to 150 mins following the start of reperfusion (p<0.05). Conclusion: The data suggest that synthetic combination of scopoletin with lipoic acid (UPEI-400) is a more effective neuroprotectant that either compound on their own. Also, since UPEI-400 was only effective in a model of I/R, it is possible that it may act to enhance neuronal antioxidant capacity and/or upregulate anti-inflammatory pathways to prevent the neuronal cell death.', u'/manuscript/201610.0083/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], [u'Department of Biomedical Science, Atlantic Veterinary College,  University of Prince Edward Island, Charlottetown, PE C1A 4P3, Canada', u'Department of Chemistry & Pharmaceutical Chemistry, School of Advanced Sciences,  VIT University, Vellore 632014, India', u'Department of Biomedical Science, Ontario Veterinary College, University of Guelph, Guelph, ON N1G 2W1, Canada']]
[u'The Bromodomain and Extra-Terminal Domain (BET) Family: Functional Anatomy of BET Paralogous Proteins', ['Yasushi Taniguchi'], u'October 24 2016', u'The BET family of proteins is characterized by the presence of two tandem bromodomains and an extra-terminal domain. The mammalian BET family of proteins comprises Brd2, Brd3, Brd4, and Brdt, which are encoded by paralogous genes that may have been generated by repeated duplication of an ancestral gene during evolution. Bromodomains that can specifically bind acetylated lysine residues in histones serve as chromatin-targeting modules that decipher the histone acetylation code. BET proteins play a crucial role in regulating gene transcription through epigenetic interactions between bromodomains and acetylated histones during cellular proliferation and differentiation processes. On the other hand, BET proteins have been reported to mediate latent viral infection in host cells and be involved in oncogenesis. Human BRD4 is involved in multiple processes of the DNA virus life cycle, including viral replication, genome maintenance, and gene transcription through interaction with viral proteins. Aberrant BRD4 expression contributes to carcinogenesis by mediating hyperacetylation of the chromatin containing the cell proliferation-promoting genes. BET bromodomain blockade using small-molecule inhibitors gives rise to selective repression of the transcriptional network driven by c-Myc. These inhibitors are expected to be potential therapeutic drugs for a wide range of cancers. This review presents an overview of the basic roles of BET proteins and highlights the pathological functions of BET and the recent developments in cancer therapy targeting BET proteins in animal models.', u'/manuscript/201610.0100/v1', [u'Oncology & Oncogenics'], [u'Division of Basic Molecular Science and Molecular Medicine, School of Medicine, Tokai University, Isehara, Kanagawa 259-1193, Japan']]
[u'The Effects of Asthma Medications on Reactive Oxygen Species Production in Human Monocytes', ['Ming-Kai Tsai', 'Yi-Ching Lin', 'Ching-Hsiung Lin', 'Ming-Yii Huang', 'Min-Sheng Lee', 'Chang-Hung Kuo', 'Chih-Hsing Hung', 'Po-Lin Kuo'], u'October 24 2016', u'Asthma is a chronic inflammatory airway disease induced by many environmental factors. The inhalation of allergens and pollutants promote the reactive oxygen species (ROS) production leading to airway inflammation, hyper-responsiveness and remodeling in allergic asthma. The effects of asthma medications on ROS production are unclear. The present study investigated the anti-ROS effects of current asthma medications including inhaled corticosteroid (ICS; budesonide and fluticasone), leukotriene receptor antagonist (LTRA; montelukast), long acting \u03b22 agonists (LABAs; salmeterol and formoterol) and a new extra-LABA (indacaterol). The human monocyte cell line THP-1 cells were pre-treated with different concentrations of the asthma medications at different time-points after hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) stimulation. H2O2 production was measured with DCFH-DA by flow cytometry. Montelukast, fluticasone and salmeterol suppressed H2O2-induced ROS production. Indacaterol enhanced H2O2-induced ROS production. Budesonide and formoterol alone had no anti-ROS effects, but the combination of these two drugs significantly suppressed H2O2-induced ROS production. Different asthma medications have different anti-ROS effects on monocytes. The combination therapy with LABA and ICS seemed not be the only choice for asthma control. Montelukast may be also a good supplemental treatment for the poorly-controlled asthma because of its powerful anti-ROS effects. Our findings provide a novel therapeutic view in asthma.', u'/manuscript/201610.0101/v1', [u'Immunology'], [u'Division of Nephrology, Department of Internal Medicine, Kaohsiung Armed Forces General Hospital, Kaohsiung 802, Taiwan', u'Department of Laboratory Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical University Hospital, Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung 807, Taiwan', u'Department of Pediatrics, Kaohsiung Medical University Hospital, Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung 807, Taiwan', u'Department of Laboratory Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, College of Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung 807, Taiwan', u'Graduate Institute of Clinical Medicine, College of Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung 807, Taiwan', u'Division of Chest Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, Changhua Christian Hospital, Changhua 500, Taiwan', u'Department of Respiratory Care, College of Health Sciences,  Chang Jung Christian University, Tainan 711, Taiwan', u'School of Medicine, Chung Shan Medical University, Taichung 402, Taiwan', u'Department of Radiation Oncology, Kaohsiung Medical University Hospital, Kaohsiung 807, Taiwan', u'Ta-Kuo Clinic, Kaohsiung, Taiwan', u'Graduate Institute of Medicine, College of Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung 807, Taiwan', u'Department of Pediatrics, Kaohsiung Municipal Hsiao-Kang Hospital, Kaohsiung 812, Taiwan', u'Department of Pediatrics, Faculty of Medicine, College of Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung 807, Taiwan', u'Institute of Medical Science and Technology, National Sun Yat-Sen University, Kaohsiung 804, Taiwan']]
[u'Spatial Distribution of Soil Nitrogen, Phosphorus and Potassium Stocks in Moso bamboo Forests in Subtropical China', ['Xiaolu Tang', 'Mingpeng Xia', 'Fengying Guan', 'Shaohui Fan'], u'October 24 2016', u'Moso bamboo is famous for fast growing and biomass accumulation, as well as high annual output for timber and bamboo shoots. These high outputs require high nutrient inputs to maintain and improve stand productivity. Soil nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P) and potassium (K) are important micronutrients for plant growth and productivity. Due to high variability of soils, analysing spatial patterns of soil N, P and K stocks is necessary for scientific nutrient management in Moso bamboo forests. In this study, soils were sampled from 138 locations across Yong\u2019an City and ordinary kriging was applied for spatial interpolation of soil N, P and K stocks. Soil N stock showed a strong spatial dependence while soil N and P stocks presented a moderate spatial dependence, indicating soil N was mainly controlled by intrinsic factors while soil N and P stocks were controlled by both intrinsic and extrinsic factors. Different spatial patterns were observed for soil N, P and K stocks across the whole study area, indicating that fertilizations with different ratios of N:P:K should be applied for different sites to maintain and improve stand productivity. The total soil N, P and K stocks within 0-60 cm were 0.624, 0.020 and 0.583 Tg, respectively.', u'/manuscript/201610.0103/v1', [u'Forestry'], [u'Key laboratory of Bamboo and Rattan, International Centre for Bamboo and Rattan, Beijing 100102, China']]
[u'Isolation and Characterisation of Probiotics for Antagonising Cariogenic Bacterium Streptococcus mutans and Preventing Biofilm Formation', ['Pei-Pei Lin', 'You-Miin Hsieh', 'Cheng-Chih Tsai'], u'October 24 2016', u'Consumption of refined foods and beverages high in sugar make the teeth susceptible to the formation of biofilm, and lead to dental caries and diseases of the oral cavity such as periodontitis and periodontal disease. The aim of the present study was to determine the ability of selected probiotics to inhibit growth and biofilm formation by the cariogenic bacterium Streptococcus mutans in vitro. We screened strains of latic acid bacteria (LAB) (n=120) from the Bioresources Collection and Research Center (BCRC), saliva of healthy adults and infant stool. The antimicrobial activity of LAB in vitro was evaluated by agar spot culture and co-culture of the S. mutans strains. We determined the effect of heating and dilution factors (2- and 4-fold) on the antagonistic activity of LAB. Antagonistic substances in the spent culture suspensions (SCS) of LAB were precipitated by extraction with ammonium sulphate and chloroform to characterise the protein and lipophilic fractions. Results of co-culturing show that the SCS of the three LAB strains (Lactobacillus pentosus 13-1, 13-4 and Lactobacillus crispatus BCRC 14618) subjected to heat treatment showed significantly high antimicrobial activity. We found that substances produced by L. pentosus 13-4 which have the potential to exhibit antimicrobial properties might be lipophilic proteins. Additionally, we infer that the mechanism of reducing biofilm formation by Lactobacillus strains is associated with sucrose-dependent cell\u2013cell adhesion and the gtfC level of glucosyltransferases (Gtfs) in the biofilm. Native LAB strains screened in our study may be used in chewing gums and other processed foods for preventing tooth decay.', u'/manuscript/201610.0102/v1', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Culinary Arts, De Lin Institute of Technology, Taipei City 23654, Taiwan', u'Department of Food and Nutrition, Providence University, Taichung City 43302, Taiwan', u'Department of Food Science and Technology, HungKuang University, Taichung City 43302, Taiwan']]
[u'TGF-\u03b2 and Physiological Root Resorption of Deciduous Teeth', ['Emi Shimazaki', 'Takeo Karakida', 'Ryuji Yamamoto', 'Saeko Kobayashi', 'Makoto Fukae', 'Yasuo Yamakoshi', 'Yoshinobu Asada'], u'October 27 2016', u'The present study was performed to examine that transforming growth factor beta (TGF-\u03b2) in root-surrounding tissues on deciduous teeth during the physiological root resorption regulates the differentiation induction into odontoclast. We prepared root-surrounding tissues with (R) or without (N) physiological root resorption scraped off at three regions (R1-R3 or N1-N3) from the cervical area to the apical area of the tooth and measured both TGF-\u03b2 and the tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP) activities. The TGF-\u03b2 activity level was increased in N1-N3, whereas the TRAP activity was increased in R2 and R3. In vitro experiments for RANKL-mediated osteoclast differentiation revealed that TGF-\u03b2 in N1-N3 and R1-R3 enhanced the TRAP activity in RAW264 cells. A genetic study indicated that the mRNA level of TGF-\u03b21 in N1 and N2 was significantly increased, and corresponded with that of osteoprotegerin (OPG). In contrast, the expression level of receptor activator of NF-\u03baB ligand (RANKL) was increased in R2 and R3. Our findings suggest that TGF-\u03b2 is closely related to the regulation of OPG induction and RANKL-mediated odontoclast differentiation depending on the timing of RANKL and OPG mRNA expression in the root-surrounding tissues of deciduous teeth during physiological root resorption.', u'/manuscript/201610.0121/v1', [u'Other'], [u'Department of Pediatric Dentistry, School of Dental Medicine, Tsurumi University, 2-1-3 Tsurumi, Tsurumi-ku, Yokohama 230-8501, Japan', u'Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, School of Dental Medicine, Tsurumi University, 2-1-3 Tsurumi, Tsurumi-ku, Yokohama 230-8501, Japan']]
[u'Adding Agnus Castus and Magnolia to Soy Isoflavones Relieves Sleep Disturbances besides Postmenopausal Vasomotor Symptoms: Long Term Safety and Effectiveness', ['Pasquale De Franciscis', 'Flavio Grauso', 'Anna Luisi', 'Maria Teresa Schettino', 'Marco Torella', 'Nicola Colacurci'], u'October 27 2016', u'Long-term safety of a nutraceutical combination based on agnus castus and magnolia extracts combined with soy isoflavones (SI) and lactobacilli, and effectiveness on vasomotor symptoms and sleep disorders in postmenopausal women, were assessed. A controlled study was carried-out in menopausal women comparing this nutraceutical combination (ESP group) with formulation containing isoflavones alone (C group), at the dosage recommended. Kuppermann index, PSQI, and SF-36 were determined at baseline, 3, 6 and 12 months. Endometrial thickness, mammary density and liver function were evaluated at baseline and after 12 months. 180 women (100 in ESP group and 80 in C group, mean age 55.5 years, in menopause for about 36 months) were enrolled in the study. At the treatment end, mammary density, endometrial thickness, and hepatic function did not show substantial differences between groups. Kuppermann index, and particularly hot flushes, were progressively and significantly decreased in frequency and severity during ESP versus C treatment. No adverse events were observed. Agnus castus and magnolia, combined with SI + lactobacilli, can effectively and safely be used in symptomatic postmenopausal women, mainly when quality of sleep is the most disturbing complaint. Endometrium, mammary glands and liver function, were unaffected after 12 months treatment.', u'/manuscript/201610.0122/v1', [u'Obstetrics & Gynaecology'], [u'Department of Woman, Child and General and Specialized Surgery, Second University of Naples, 81100 Caserta CE, Italy']]
[u'Resistance to Rose Rosette Virus and Transmission Attributes', ['Patrick L. Di Bello', 'Thanuja Thekke-Veetil', 'Tobiasz Druciarek', 'Ioannis E. Tzanetakis'], u'October 27 2016', u'Rosette caused by rose rosette virus (RRV) is the most devastating malady of rose in the United States. Because of the recent discovery of the virus and the completion of Koch\u2019s postulates all assumptions about the disease are based on visual observations of material that may or may have not been infected by the virus. This study addresses several aspects of virus and disease epidemiology. Twenty rose genotypes were screened for mite and/or virus resistance. Phyllocoptes fructiphilus the only known vector of RRV, was able to establish, lay eggs and develop to nymphs and adults in all genotypes. \u2018Stormy Weather\u2019 shows resistance to the virus as assessed by both mite and cleft-grafting transmission experiments. The acquisition/latent and inoculation access periods were studied revealing long acquisition/latent periods but rapid inoculation time frames. The outputs of this study will assist in the better management of the vector and the disease. The resistant genotype identified could be used in areas with high disease pressure to minimize spread and for identification of the mechanisms behind resistance or as breeding material to incorporate virus resistance to new cultivars. The short inoculation access period indicates that chemical control for the vector may be a challenging undertaking.', u'/manuscript/201610.0119/v1', [u'Virology'], [u'Department of Plant Pathology, Division of Agriculture, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, AR 72701, USA']]
[u'Herbal Products in Italy: The Thin Line between Phytotherapy, Nutrition and Parapharmaceuticals; a Normative Overview of the Fastest Growing Market in Europe', ['Marco Biagi', 'Rita Pecorari', 'Giovanni Appendino', 'Elisabetta Miraldi', 'Anna Rosa Magnano', 'Paolo Governa', 'Giulia Cettolin', 'Daniela Giachetti'], u'October 28 2016', u'The Italian herbal products market is the most prosperous in Europe. The proof is represented by the use of these products in several marketing categories, ranging from medicine to nutrition and cosmetics. Market and legislation in Italy are at the same time cause and consequence of this peculiar situation. In fact, the legislation on botanical food supplements in Italy is very permissive and at the same time the market shows an overall satisfaction of users and strong feedback in terms of consumption, which brings a widening use of medicinal plants, formerly the prerogative of pharmaceuticals, to other fields such as nutrition. This review summarizes the market and normative panorama of herbal products in Italy, highlighting the blurred boundaries of health indications, marketing authorizations and quality controls between herbal medicines and non pharmaceutical products, such as food supplements, cosmetics and other herbal-based \u201cparapharmaceuticals\u201d.', u'/manuscript/201610.0125/v1', [u'Other'], [u'Department of Physical Sciences, Earth and Environment, University of Siena, Via Laterina 8,  53100 Siena, Italy', u'Italian Society of Phytotherapy, Via Laterina 8, 53100 Siena, Italy', u'Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Eastern Piedmont, Largo Donegani 2,  28100 Novara, Italy']]
[u'Geography of Food Consumption Patterns between South and North China', ['Fangfang Song', 'Mi Sook Cho'], u'October 31 2016', u'The geographical environment, food culture, and dietary habits are substantially different between the southern and northern regions in China. We investigated the associations with dietary patterns and metabolic syndrome between Chinese adult from the southern and northern regions (North: 1249; South: 1849) using data from the Chinese Health and Nutrition 2009 survey. Respectively, four dietary patterns were identified by factor analysis in the two regions. Each dietary pattern of factor score was calculated for three groups by tertile (T1<T2<T3). In the northern region, the association between the Alcohol and Western pattern and the risk of abdominal obesity (OR: 1.31; 95%:1.01, 1.68), hypertriglyceridemia (OR: 1.35; 95%:1.05, 1.74), high fasting blood glucose (OR: 1.37; 95%: 1.05, 1.80), and hypertension (OR: 1.55; 95%: 1.45, 1.99) was increased. In the southern region, the Convenience Food pattern was positively associated with hypertriglyceridemia (OR: 1.53; 95%: 1.03, 2.26), low HDL-cholesterol (OR: 1.96; 95%: 1.12, 3.43), and metabolic syndrome (OR: 1.79; 95%: 1.03, 3.11). The Alcohol dietary pattern was positively associated with high fasting blood glucose (OR: 1.83, 95%: 1.13, 2.97). There are some dietary pattern differences in the two regions. It is necessary to consider the factors of food culture and food intake habits in order to provide nutrition education to Chinese individuals from different regions in the future.', u'/manuscript/201610.0132/v1', [u'Nutrition'], [u'Department of Nutritional Science and Food Management, Ewha Womans University, Seoul 03760, Korea']]
[u'Perturbation Analysis of Calcium, Alkalinity and Secretion during Growth of Lily Pollen Tubes', ['Lawrence J. Winship', 'Caleb Rounds', 'Peter K. Hepler'], u'November 1 2016', u'Pollen tubes grow by spatially and temporally regulated expansion of new material secreted into the cell wall at the tip of the tube. A complex web of interactions among cellular components, ions and small molecule provides dynamic control of localized expansion and secretion. Cross-correlation studies on oscillating lily (Lilium formosanum Wallace) pollen tubes showed that an increase in intracellular calcium follows an increase in growth, whereas the increase in the alkaline band and in secretion both anticipate the increase in growth rate. Calcium, as a follower, is unlikely to be a stimulator of growth, whereas the alkaline band, as a leader, may be an activator. To gain further insight herein we reversibly inhibited growth with potassium cyanide (KCN), and followed the re-establishment of calcium, pH and secretion patterns as growth resumed. While KCN markedly slows growth and causes the associated gradients of calcium and pH to sharply decline, its removal allows growth and vital processes to fully recover. The calcium gradient reappears before growth restarts, however it is preceded by both the alkaline band and secretion, in which the alkaline band is slightly advanced over secretion. Thus the pH gradient, rather than the tip-focused calcium gradient, may regulate pollen tube growth.', u'/manuscript/201611.0003/v1', [u'Plant Sciences'], [u'School of Natural Science, Hampshire College, Amherst, MA 01002, USA', u'Biology Department, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA 01003, USA']]
[u'Raman and Terahertz Spectroscopic Investigation of Cocrystal Formation Involving Antibiotic Nitrofurantoin Drug and Coformer 4-aminobenzoic Acid', ['Yong Du', 'Qiang Cai', 'Jiadan Xue', 'Qi Zhang'], u'November 1 2016', u'Cocrystallizaiton could improve most physicochemical properties of specific active pharmaceutical ingredients, which has great potential in pharmaceutical development. In this study, the cocrystal of nitrofurantoin and 4-aminobenzoic acid was prepared with solid-state (solvent-free or green-chemistry) grinding approach, and the above cocrystal has been characterized by Raman and terahertz vibrational spectroscopic techniques. Spectral results show that the vibrational modes of the cocrystal within the whole spectral region are different from those of the corresponding parent materials. The dynamic process of such pharmaceutical cocrystal formation has also been monitored directly with Raman spectra. These results offer us unique means for characterizing the cocrystal conformation from molecule-level and also provide us rich information about the reaction dynamic of cocrystal formation within pharmaceutical fields.', u'/manuscript/201611.0008/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], [u'Centre for THz Research, China Jiliang University, Hangzhou 310018, China', u'Department of Chemisty, Zhejiang Sci-Tech University, Hangzhou 310018, China']]
[u'Reshuffling the Risk Factors of Severe Early Childhood Caries', ['Noha Kabil', 'Sherif Eltaweil'], u'November 1 2016', u'Severe early childhood caries remains the most common chronic disease affecting children. .Its multifactorial etiology lead to the controversy about which risk factors were more significant to its development. Therefore our study aimed through meticulous statistical analysis to arrange the \u201cwell agreed upon\u201d common risk factors in order of significance to aid the clinician in tailoring an adequate preventive program for this affected age group. The study concluded that the risk factors contributing to severe early childhood caries in order of their significance were Night feeding, On demand feeding, Mother\u2019s Employment, Mother\u2019s caries Experience, Starting age of brushing, Mother\u2019s education, Sharing utensils, Child\u2019s first dental visit, Number of siblings, Brushing frequency, Sweetened food and beverage consumption, Sweetened beverages, and at last the snacking frequency.', u'/manuscript/201611.0005/v1', [u'Dentistry'], [u'Department of Pediatric Dentistry and Dental Public Health, Faculty of Dentistry,  Ain Shams University, Cairo 11566, Egypt', u'Department of Pediatric Dentistry and Dental Public Health, Faculty of Oral & Dental Medicine,  Cairo University, Giza 12613, Egypt']]
[u'AAC as a Potential Target Gene to Control Verticillium dahliae', ['Xiaofeng Su', 'Latifur Rehman', 'Huiming Guo', 'Xiaokang Li', 'Hongmei Cheng'], u'November 2 2016', u'Verticillium dahliae invades the roots of host plants and causes vascular wilt, which seriously diminishes the yield of cotton and other important crops. The protein AAC (ADP, ATP carrier) is responsible for transferring ATP from the mitochondria into the cytoplasm. When V. dahliae protoplasts were transformed with short interfering RNAs (siRNAs) targeting the VdAAC gene, fungal growth and sporulation were significantly inhibited. To further confirm a role for VdAAC in fungal development, we generated knockout mutants (\u0394VdACC), which were hypersensitive to stresses such as UV light and high concentrations of NaCl or sorbitol. Compared with wild-type V. dahliae\xa0\xa0(Vd wt), \u0394VdAAC was impaired in germination and virulence; these impairments were rescued in the complementary strains (\u0394VdAAC-C). Moreover, when an RNAi construct of VdAAC under the control of the 35S promoter was used to transform Nicotiana benthamiana, the expression of VdAAC was downregulated in the transgenic seedlings, and they had elevated resistance against V. dahliae. The results of this study suggest that VdAAC contributes to fungal development, virulence and response to stresses and is a promising candidate gene to control V. dahliae. In addition, RNAi is a highly efficient way to silence fungal genes and provides a novel strategy to improve disease resistance in plants.', u'/manuscript/201611.0020/v1', [u'Agricultural Sciences & Agronomy'], [u'Biotechnology Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Beijing; China']]
[u'Illegal Hunting of Prey Species in the Northern Section of Bardia National Park, Nepal: Implications for Carnivore Conservation', ['Babu Bhattarai', 'Wendy Wright', 'Ambika Khatiwada'], u'November 2 2016', u'We interviewed 48 people including local communities, ex hunters and protected area management professionals. The purpose of the interviews was to understand the motivations for, and the nature of, illegal hunting of prey species of iconic predators - tigers and leopards - in the northern section of Bardia National Park. Participants reported that hunting of prey species occurs mostly in spring and autumn and is less common during the summer. In the past, hunting was primarily for the purposes of obtaining meat for household consumption. Since the introduction of a road network in the region, opportunities to sell wild meat at ad-hoc \u2018highway markets\u2019 have developed. The purported medicinal properties of wild meat was also cited as a driver for illegal hunting. Mostly, locally hand-made guns are used for hunting and the use of dogs in hunting was often reported. Protected area managers informed that illegal hunting problems in the study area are associated with a lack of presence of park authorities, remoteness and underdevelopment and poverty of the community. Our study suggested that skills development training for local community members might reduce dependency on wild meat for household consumption and earning thereby reducing illegal hunting.', u'/manuscript/201611.0016/v1', [u'Ecology'], [u'Department of National Parks & Willdlife Conservation, Kathmandu 860, Nepal', u'Applied and Biomedical Sciences, Federation University, Mount Helen VIC 3350, Australia', u'National Trust for Nature Conservation, Lalitpur 3712, Nepal']]
[u'Transmural Cellular Heterogeneity in Myocardial Electromechanics', ['Anastasia Khokhlova', 'Nathalie Vikulova', 'Leonid Katsnelson', 'Gentaro Iribe', 'Olga Solovyova'], u'November 2 2016', u'Myocardial heterogeneity is an attribute of the normal heart. We have developed integrative models of cardiomyocytes from the subendocardial (ENDO) and subepicardial (EPI) ventricular regions that take into account experimental data on specific features of intracellular electromechanical coupling in the guinea pig heart. The models adequately simulate experimental data on the action potential and contraction of the ENDO and EPI cells. The modeling results predict that heterogeneity in the parameters of calcium handling and myofilament mechanics in isolated ENDO and EPI cardiomyocytes via cooperative mechanisms of mechano-calcium-electric feedback are essential to produce the differences in Ca2+ transients and contraction profiles and may further enhance transmural differences in the electrical properties between the cells. Simulation results predict that ENDO cells have greater sensitivity to changes in afterload than EPI cells. These data are important for understanding the behavior of cardiomyocytes in the intact heart.', u'/manuscript/201611.0015/v1', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Ural Federal University, Ekaterinburg 620002, Russia', u'Institute of Immunology and Physiology, Russian Academy of Sciences,  Ekaterinburg 620049, Russia', u'Okayama University, Graduate School of Medicine, Dentistry and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Okayama 700-0082, Japan', u'Institute of Mathematics and Mechanics, Russian Academy of Sciences,  Ekaterinburg 620049, Russia']]
[u'Predictors of Survival in Children with Ependymoma from a Single Center: Using Random Survival Forests', ['Francisco H. C. Felix', 'Juvenia B. Fontenele'], u'November 3 2016', u'Ependymoma is responsible for 8\u201310% of all pediatric brain tumors and constitutes the third most common brain tumor in children. No robust molecular markers are yet in routine clinical use. Surgical resection and adjuvant radiotherapy cure approximately 40-70% of pediatric patients with ependymoma. In our centre, we have been using prophylactic valproic acid treatment for brain tumor patients. Initial observations indicated that valproate could have a beneficial effect in the survival of patients. Recent observations by other authors have shown that patients with glioblastoma benefited from the treatment with valproic acid, a histone deacetylase inhibitor. We have used random survival forest, a novel ensemble survival modelling method to study a single- center, small number cohort of pediatric patients with ependymoma. This analysis has confirmed surgery resection extent and treatment with radiotherapy as independent predictors of overall survival. Treatment with valproic acid was also a predictor of higher survival in this cohort. These results highlight the potential usefullness of the random survival forest model in gathering information from retrospective data. More data is needed about the possible influence of histone deacetylase inhibition by valproic acid in the survival of patients with ependymoma. ', u'/manuscript/201611.0028/v1', [u'Oncology & Oncogenics'], [u'Pediatric Hemato-oncology Service, Hospital Infantil Albert Sabin, R Alberto Montezuma, 350 - Vila Uniao, 60410-770, Fortaleza - CE, Brazil', u'Department of Pharmacy, Faculdade de Farm\xe1cia, Odontologia e Enfermagem, Universidade Federal do Ceara, Av. da Universidade, 2853 - Benfica, 60020-180, Fortaleza - CE, Brazil']]
[u'Vitamin C Supplementation and Hyperuricemia: Fact or Hoax?', ['Firas S. Azzeh', 'Abrar H. Al-Hebshi', 'Haya D. Al-Essimii', 'Mohammed A. Alarjah'], u'November 3 2016', u'Abstract: Hyperuricemia is commonly diagnosed in subjects with abnormal purine metabolism. Prolonged hyperuricemia often associated with gout, which is a vital risk factor for joint dysfunction. The current study was designed to determine the efficacy of vitamin C supplements for treatment of high serum uric acid (UA) among hyperuricemic and gouty patients, and finding-out the effect of supplementation on serum creatinine (Cr) level and glomerular filtration rate (GFR). This intervention study was started in April, 2013, till two months. A convenient sample of 30 adults aged between 24-75 years of both genders was assigned into two study groups: hyperuricemic (n=15) and gouty (n=15) groups. Each participant supplemented with 500 mg/day vitamin C chewable tablets for 2 months. Serum UA, Cr, and GFR were measured before and after treatment. At the end of this study, Cr and GFR enhanced insignificantly in both groups. UA increased insignificantly in gouty group after 2 months by about 0.31 mg/dl. On the other hand, hyperuricemic group showed significant (P \u22640.05) decrease in UA (-0.78 mg/dl) after 2 months duration. In conclusion, supplementation with 500 mg/day vitamin C for 2 months significantly attenuated serum UA for hyperuricemic patients and insignificantly affected serum UA in gouty patients. The uselessness of vitamin C supplements on gouty patients could be associated to a number of possible reasons.', u'/manuscript/201611.0027/v1', [u'Nutrition'], [u'Department of Clinical Nutrition, Faculty of Applied Medical Sciences, Umm Al-Qura University, P.O. Box: 7067, Makkah (21955), Saudi Arabia', u'Faculty of Pharmacy, Umm Al-Qura University, P.O. Box: 7067, Makkah (21955), Saudi Arabia']]
[u'From Systems to Organisations', ['Mauricio Kritz'], u'November 3 2016', u'Warren Weaver, writing about the function that science should have in mankind\u2019s developing future, ideas and ideals, proposed to classify scientific problems into \u2018problems of simplicity\u2019, \u2018problems of disorganised complexity\u2019, and \u2018problems of organised complexity\u2019 \u2014 the huge complementary class to which all biological, human, and social problems belong. Problems of simplicity have few components and variables and have been extensively addressed in the last 400 years. Problems of disorganised complexity have a huge number of individually erratic components and variables, but possess collective regularities that can be analysed by resourcing to stochastic methods. Yet, problems of organised complexity do not yield easily to classical or statistical treatment since interrelations among phenomenon elements change during its evolution alongside commonly used state variables, affecting behaviour and outcome. Moreover, organisation, the focal point in this complementary class, is still an elusive concept despite the gigantic efforts undertaken since a century ago to tame it. This paper addresses the description, representation and study of phenomena in the \u2018problems of organised complexity\u2019 class. Grounded on relational mathematical constructs, a theoretical framework providing operational definitions and schemes for formally modelling organisations and interaction of organisations is introduced. This framework extends the general systems\u2019 concept and provides a novel perspective for addressing organised complexity phenomena as a collection of interacting organisations.', u'/manuscript/201611.0026/v1', [u'Other'], [u'National Laboratory for Scientific Computation, Av. Get\xfalio Vargas, 333, 25651-075 Petr\xf3polis, RJ, Brazil']]
[u'Compounds from Terminalia mantaly L. (Combretaceae) Stem Bark Exhibit Potent Inhibition against some Pathogenic Yeasts and Enzymes of Metabolic Significance', ['Marthe A. T. Tchuente', 'Thierry N. Kammalac', 'Sebastian Gohlke', 'Rufin M. T. Kouipou', 'Abdulselam Aslan', 'Muslum Kuzu', 'Veysel Comakli', 'Ramazan Demirdag', 'Silvere A. Ngouela', 'Etienne Tsamo', 'Norbert Sewald', 'Bruno N. Lenta', 'Fabrice F. Boyom'], u'November 3 2016', u'The chemical investigation of the anti-yeast methanol extract from the stem bark of Terminalia mantaly led to the isolation of seven compounds: 3-O-methyl-4-O-\u03b1-rhamnopyranoside ellagic acid (1), 3-O-mehylellagic acid (2), arjungenin or 2,3,19,23-tetrahydroxyolean-12-en-28-o\xefc acid (3), arjunglucoside or 2,3,19,23-tetrahydroxyolean-12-en-28-o\xefc acid glucopyranoside (4), 2\u03b1,3\u03b1,24-trihydroxyolean-11,13(18)-dien-28-o\xefc acid (5), stigmasterol (6), stigmasterol 3-O-\u03b2-D-glucopyranoside (7). Their structures were established by means of spectroscopic analysis and comparison with published data. Compounds 1-5 were tested in vitro for activity against three pathogenic yeast isolates, Candida albicans, Candida parapsilosis and Candida krusei. The activity of compounds 1, 2 and 4 were comparable to that of the reference compound fluconazole (MIC values below 32 \xb5g/ml) against the three tested yeast isolates. They were also tested for inhibitory properties against four enzymes of metabolic significance: Glucose-6-Phosphate Deshydrogenase (G6PD), human erythrocyte Carbonic anhydrase I and II (hCA I and hCA II), Glutathione S-transferase (GST). Compound 4 showed highly potent inhibitory property against the four tested enzymes with overall IC50 values below 4 \xb5M and inhibitory constant (Ki) <3 \xb5M.', u'/manuscript/201611.0023/v1', [u'Other'], [u'Laboratory of Natural Products and Organic Synthesis, Department of Organic Chemistry,  Faculty of Science, University of Yaound\xe9 1, Box: 812, Yaound\xe9, Cameroon', u'Antimicrobial & Biocontrol Agents Unit, Laboratory for Phytobiochemistry and Medicinal Plants Studies, Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Science, University of Yaound\xe9 I,  Yaound\xe9 P.O. Box: 812, Yaound\xe9, Cameroon', u'Chemistry Department, Organic and Bioorganic Chemistry, Bielefeld University,  P.O. Box 100131, D-33501 Bielefeld, Germany', u'Giresun University, Faculty of Engineering, Department of Industrial Engineering,  28200 Giresun, Turkey', u'Agr\u0131 Ibrahim Cecen University, Faculty of Pharmacy, Department of Basic Pharmaceutical Sciences, 04100 Agri, Turkey', u'Agr\u0131 Ibrahim Cecen University, School of Health, Department of Nutrition and Dietetics,  04100 Agri, Turkey', u'Department of Chemistry, Higher Teacher Training College, University of Yaound\xe9 1,  Yaound\xe9, Cameroon']]
[u'An Emergy-Based Hybrid Method for Assessing Sustainability of an Resource-Dependent Region', ['Lulu Qu', 'Xueyi Shi', 'Chang Liu'], u'November 7 2016', u'As the natural resources are getting exhausted, the concept of sustainable development of region has received increasing attentions, especially for resource-dependent cities. In this paper an innovative method that emergy analysis and IPAT (Human Impact Population Affluence Technology) model were combined in order to analyze the quantitative relationship of economic growth and energy consumption and further to evaluate its overall sustainability level. Taiyuan, a traditional, resource-dependent city in China, is selected as the case study region. The main results show that total emergy of Taiyuan increased from 9.023\xd7 1023 sej in 2007 to 9.116\xd7 1023sej in 2014, with 38% reduction on non-renewable emergy and 125% growth on imported emergy. Regional emergy money ratio (RMB) was reduced by 48% from 5.31\xd7 1013sej/$ in 2007 to 2.74\xd7 1013sej/$ in 2014, indicating that the increasing speed of consuming resources and energy was faster than the increase of GDP, and that Taiyuan\u2019s money purchasing power declined. The lower emergy sustainability index (ESI) indicates that Taiyuan was explored and produced large quantities of mineral resources, which puts more stress on the environment as a consequence, and that this is not sustainable in the long run. The IPAT analysis demonstrates that Taiyuan sticks to the efforts of energy conservation and environmental protection, in order to promote regional sustainable development, it is necessary to take an integrated effort. Policy insights suggest that resourceful regions should improve include energy and resource efficiency, optimizing energy and resourceful structure.', u'/manuscript/201611.0035/v1', [u'Other'], [u'College of Land Science and Technology, China University of Geosciences, Beijing 100083, China']]
[u'Antioxidant Activity from Peel and Seed of Melon (Cucumis melo L. var. reticulatus) and Its Antiproliferative Effect in Cancer Cells', ['Priscilla Moura Rolim Madeira', 'Gabriel Pereira Fidelis', 'Hugo Alexandre Oliveira Rocha', 'Everaldo Silvino dos Santos', 'Gorete Ribeiro de Macedo'], u'November 8 2016', u'Extracts of melon residues were prepared and their antioxidants and antiproliferative activities were evaluated. Total phenolic compounds were found to hydroethanolic, hydromethanolic and aqueous extracts, especially for melon peel (1.016 mg in gallic acid equivalent 100g-1). By means of the phytochemical analysis in thin layer chromatography, it was possible to verify the presence of compounds with structures terpenes and saponins. Flavonoids total content were found especially for melon peel aqueous extract 262 \u03bcg of catechin equivalent 100g-1. The concentrations of carotenoids in melon peel and seed residues were 96 and 9.59 \u03bcg total carotenoids g-1, respectively. Tannins were found in highest quantities in melon peel extract (309 \u03bcg of catechin equivalent in 100g-1). For total antioxidant capacity, expressed as ascorbic acid equivalent, the hydroethanolic and hydromethanolic extracts for peels and hydromethanolic for seed showed, respectively, 89 mg g-1, 74mg g-1 and 83mg g-1. Different extracts of melon showed chelating activity of the iron and copper ions in different concentrations, especially melon peel aqueous extract, reaching values of 61% for iron chelating and 84% for copper. The hydroethanolic extract of melon peel showed significant ability to hydroxyl radicals scavenging (68%), one of the more reactive radicals. To antiproliferative potential in human cancer cell lines, such as kidney carcinoma, colorectal carcinoma, cervical adenocarcinoma and carcinoma, were investigated by MTT assay. The proliferation was inhibited by 20%\u201385% at extracts concentrations of 0.1\u20131.0 mg mL-1 to all cancer cell lines. The results suggest that melon residues extracts display a high antioxidant activity in in vitro assays and have been effective biological activity against the growth of human tumor cells.', u'/manuscript/201611.0045/v1', [u'Biotechnology'], [u'Laboratory of Biochemistry Engineer, Department of Chemical Engineer,  Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte (UFRN), Natal-RN 59078-970, Brazil', u'Laboratory of Biotechnology of Natural Polymers (BIOPOL), Department of Biochemistry,  Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte (UFRN), Natal-RN 59078-970, Brazil']]
[u'Vitamin-D Deficiency Predicts Infections in Young North Indian Children: A Secondary Data Analysis', ['Ranadip Chowdhury', 'Sunita Taneja', 'Nita Bhandari', 'Bireshwar Sinha', 'Ravi Upadhyay', 'Maharaj Kishan Bhan', 'Tor A. Strand'], u'November 8 2016', u'Recent studies have demonstrated a relationship between poor vitamin D status and respiratory infections and diarrhea among young children. Acute lower respiratory infections (ALRI) and diarrhea are among the two most important causes of death in under-5 children. In this analysis, we examine the extent to which vitamin-D deficiency (<10 ng/ml) predicts these outcomes using data from a randomized controlled trial (RCT) of daily folic acid and/ or vitamin B12 supplementation for six months in 6 to 30 months old children conducted in Delhi, India. Of the 960 subjects who had vitamin-D concentrations measured, 331(34.5%) were vitamin-D deficient. We found, after controlling for relevant potential confounders (age, sex, breastfeeding status, wasting, stunting, underweight, anemia status at base line and season), the risk of ALRI was significantly higher among vitamin-D deficient (OR 1.26; 95% CI: 1.03 to 1.55) compared to vitamin-D-replete children in the six months follow-up period. Vitamin-D status was not significantly associated with episodes of diarrhea and clinical pneumonia. The extent of causal relationship of vitamin-D status and ALRI needs to be explored in further studies.', u'/manuscript/201611.0049/v1', [u'Nutrition'], [u'Centre for Health Research and Development, Society for Applied Studies, New Delhi 110016, India', u'National Science Professor, Indian Institute Technology, Delhi 110016, India', u'Chair, Knowledge Integration and Translational Platform (KnIT), Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC), New Delhi 110003, India', u'Department of Research, Innlandet Hospital Trust, 2381, Norway', u'Centre for International Health, University of Bergen, Bergen 5020, Norway']]
[u'Uridine Triphosphate Thio-analogues Inhibit Platelet P2Y12 Receptors and Aggregation', ['Dursun Guenduez', 'Christian Tanislav', 'Daniel Sedding', 'Mariana Parahuleva', 'Sentot Santoso', 'Christian Troidl', 'Christian Hamm', 'Muhammad Aslam'], u'November 8 2016', u'Platelet P2Y12 is an important ADP receptor that is involved in agonists-induced platelet aggregation and is an important target for the development of anti-platelet aggregation drugs. Here the effects of thio-analogues of uridine triphosphate (UTP) on ADP-induced platelet aggregation are characterised. Using human platelet rich plasma we demonstrate that UTP inhibits P2Y12 but not P2Y1 receptors and antagonises ADP-induced platelet aggregation in a conc.-dependent manner with an IC50 value of ~250 mM against ADP (10 mM). An 8-fold increase in the platelet inhibitory activity was observed with 2-thio analogue of UTP (2S-UTP) with an IC50 value of 30 mM. A 33-fold increase in anti-platelet aggregation activity was observed with 4-thio analogue (4S-UTP) with an IC50 value of 7.5 mM. However, a 3-fold decrease in activity was observed by introducing an isobutyl group at the 4S- position. A complete loss in anti-platelet aggregation activity was observed with thio-modification of gamma phosphate of the sugar moiety which yields an enzymatically stable analogue. The interaction of UTP analogues with P2Y12 receptors was further verified by P2Y12 receptor binding assay and cAMP assay. The novel data demonstrate for the first time that 2- and 4-thio analogues of UTP are potent P2Y12 receptor antagonists that can be useful candidates for therapeutic intervention.', u'/manuscript/201611.0048/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], [u'Department of Cardiology/Angiology, University Hospital Giessen, 35392 Giessen, Germany', u'Department of Neurology, University Hospital Giessen, 35392 Giessen, Germany', u'Department of Cardiology/Angiology, Hannover Medical School, 30625 Hannover, Germany', u'Department of Cardiology/Angiology, University Hospital, Marburg, 35392 Giessen, Germany', u'Institute for Clinical Immunology and Transfusion Medicine, Justus Liebig University, Giessen, 35385 Giessen, Germany.']]
[u'TTF1, in the Form of Nanoparticles, Inhibits Angiogenesis, Cell Migration and Cell Invasion in VitroandIn Vivoin Human Hepatoma through STAT3 Regulation', ['Bin Xiao', 'Dongjing Lin', 'Xuan Zhang', 'Meilan Zhang', 'Xuewu Zhang'], u'November 9 2016', u'TTF1-NP(5,2\u2032,4\u2032-trihydroxy-6,7,5\u2032-trimethoxyflavone nanoparticles), derived from the traditional Changbai Mountain medicinal plant Sorbaria sorbifolia (SS), has been showedits anti-cancer effect in various liver cancer cell types and tissues. The present study was designed to evaluate the antitumor mechanism of the TTF1-NP against HepG2 hepatoma cells and HepG2 cells-induced hepatocarcinoma (HCC) in nude mouse model. Here we demonstrated that TTF1-NP inhibits tube formation of HUVECs and HepG2 cell migration and invasion, and inhibits tumor growth in nude mice implanted with HepG2 cells through the downregulation of STAT3 protein and activation, along with VEGF, KDR, bFGF, MMP2 and MMP9 levels. We further revealed that TTF1-NP decreased the DNA-binding capacity of STAT3. Together our results provide a mechanism by which TTF1-NP suppresses cancer cell migration, invasion and angiogenesis through the action of STAT3 and suggests TTF1-NP as a potential therapy for hepatocellular cancer treatment.', u'/manuscript/201611.0051/v1', [u'Oncology & Oncogenics'], [u'College of Medicine, Yanbian University, Yanji 133000, China', u'Basic Medical College, Jilin Medical University, Jilin 132013, China']]
[u'Existing Biosensing Platforms for the Nucleotide Markers Detection', ['Elena Dmitrienko', 'Inna Pyshnaya', 'Fedor Dultsev', 'Andrey Tronin', 'Dmitrii Pyshnyi'], u'November 9 2016', u'In review, the operating principles of the most common bio sensing devices, detection methods and the identification sensitivity of analyzed molecules were shown. The central focus was done on hybridization analysis of nucleic acids (NA), which are considered to be one of the most important analytes in terms of diagnostic point of view. Constructions enabling to transfer the fact of formation of nucleotide probe/target complex in to detectable signal by optical, electrochemical or micromechanical (piezoelectric) sensors were presented in this review.', u'/manuscript/201611.0055/v1', [u'Biotechnology'], [u'SB RAS, Institute of Chemical Biology and Fundamental Medicine, 630090 Novosibirsk, Russia', u'SB RAS, A.V. Rzhanov Institute of Semiconductor Physics, 630090 Novosibirsk, Russia', u'MBU-Technology, Llc., 630090 Novosibirsk, Russia']]
[u'Clinical Decision-Making in the Treatment of Schizophrenia: Focus on Long-Acting Injectable Antipsychotics', ['Ludovic Samalin', 'Marion Garnier', 'Candy Auclair', 'Pierre-Michel Llorca'], u'November 10 2016', u'The purposes of this study were to identify clinician\u2019s characteristics associated with higher prescription rates of long-acting injectable (LAI) antipsychotics, as well as the information sources influencing medical decision-making about treatment of schizophrenia. We surveyed 202 psychiatrists during 6 regional French conferences (Bordeaux, Lyon, Marseille, Nice, Paris, Strasbourg). Data on the characteristics of practice, prescription rates of antipsychotic and information sources about their clinical decisions were collected. Most of psychiatrists used second-generation antipsychotic (SGA), and preferentially an oral formulation, in the treatment of schizophrenia. SGA LAI was prescribed to 30.4% of schizophrenic patients. The duration and the type of practice did not influence the class or formulation of antipsychotics used. The clinicians following the higher percentage of schizophrenic patients were associated with the higher use of LAI antipsychotics and the lower use of oral SGA. Personal experience, government regulatory approval and guidelines for the treatment of schizophrenia were the 3 main contributing factors guiding the clinical decision-making of clinicians about treatment of schizophrenia. The more clinicians follow schizophrenic patients, the more they use LAI antipsychotic. The development of specialised programmes with top specialists should lead to better use of LAI in the treatment of schizophrenia.', u'/manuscript/201611.0056/v1', [u'Psychiatry & Mental Health studies'], [u'CHU Clermont-Ferrand, Department of Psychiatry, University of Auvergne, EA 7280,  63000 Clermont-Ferrand, France', u'French Society for Biological Psychiatry and Neuropsychopharmacology, CH Sainte Anne,  75674 Paris, France', u'Fondation FondaMental, 94000 Cr\xe9teil, France', u'CHU Clermont-Ferrand, Department of Public Health, University of Auvergne, EA 7280,  63000 Clermont-Ferrand, France', u'Centre Hospitalier et Universitaire, Service de Psychiatrie B, 58 rue Montalembert,  63000 Clermont-Ferrand, France']]
[u'Review on Usage of Vancomycin in Livestock and Humans: Maintaining its Efficacy, Prevention of Resistance and Alternative Therapy', ['P. N. K. WIJESEKARA', 'W. W. Kumbukgolla', 'Jayaweera Arachchige Asela Sampath Jayaweera', 'D. S. Rawat'], u'November 12 2016', u'Vancomycin is one of the \u2018last-line\u2019 classes of antibiotics used in the treatment of life-threatening infections caused by Gram-positive bacteria. Even though vancomycin was discovered in 1950s it was widely used after 1980s for the treatment of infections caused by methicillin-resistant Staphylococci as prevalence of such strains were increased. However, currently it is evident that vancomycin resistant Staphylococcusaureusandvancomycin-resistant Enterococci have been developed as a result of various reasons including use of avaparcin, which is an analog of vancomycin, as feed additive in livestock. In present day context, more attention should be paid on prevention of emergence of resistance for the antibiotics in order to keep antibiotics effective. In order to prevent emergence of resistance, proper guidance for the responsible use of antimicrobials is indispensable. Therefore, almost all stakeholders who use antibiotics should have in depth understanding on the antibiotic they use. As such, it is imperative to be aware of the important aspects of vancomycin. In the present review, efforts have been made to discussthe pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics, indications, emergence of resistance, control of resistance, adverse effects and alternative therapy for vancomycin.', u'/manuscript/201611.0067/v1', [u'Veterinary Medicine'], [u'Veterinary Surgeon and Senior Assistant Secretary, University Grants Commission, Ward Pl, Colombo 00700, Sri Lanka', u'Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine and Allied Sciences, Rajarata University of Sri Lanka, Mihintale, Sri Lanka', u'Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Medicine and Allied Sciences, Rajarata University, Mihintale, Sri Lanka', u'Department of Chemistry, University of Delhi, Delhi 110007, India']]
[u'Enhanced Autophagy in the Kidney of AQP11 Null Mice Developing Polycystic Kidneys', ['Yasuko Tanaka', 'Mayumi Watari', 'Tatusya Saito', 'Yoshiyuki Morishita', 'Kenichi Ishibashi'], u'November 12 2016', u'Aquaporin-11 (AQP11) is an intracellular water channel expressed at the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) of the kidney proximal tubule. Its gene disruption in mice leads to intracellular vacuole formation at one week old and the subsequent development of polycystic kidneys at three week old. As the damaged proximal tubular cells with intracellular vacuoles later form cysts, autophagy may play a role in their survival. We examined the autophagy activity before and after the development of cysts in AQP11(-/-) kidneys. We first observed an enhanced expression of LC3 gene (Map1lc3b) as well as other autophagy-related genes in AQP11(-/-) mice by quantitative PCR analysis. We then examined the formation of autophagosomes visualized by a green fluorescent fusion protein, GFP\u2013LC3 in its transgenic mice. The expression of GFP-LC3 puncta was increased in the proximal tubule of AQP11(-/-) mice before the cyst formation. Interestingly, they were also observed in the cyst-lining epithelial cell. Further PCR analyses revealed the enhanced expression of apoptosis- and ER stress-related caspase genes before and after the cyst formation suggesting that ER stress may have enhanced autophagy. We conclude that autophagy will play an important role in the development and the survival of the kidney cysts in AQP11(-/-) mice.', u'/manuscript/201611.0066/v1', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'Department of Pathophysiology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Meiji Pharmaceutical University, 2-522-1 Noshio, Kiyose, Tokyo 204-8588, Japan', u'Department of Nephrology, Jichi Medical University, Saitama Medical Center, Saitama 330-8503, Japan']]
[u'Amentoflavone Attenuate Lipopolysaccharide-Induced Inflammation in BV2 Microglia via MAPKs-NF\u03baB Pathway', ['Wai-Shing Leung', 'Shiuan-Shinn Lee', 'Ming-Ling Yang', 'Chi-Wen Kuo', 'Hui-Wen Lin', 'Yung-Chyuan Ho', 'Yu-Hsiang Kuan'], u'November 14 2016', u'Amentoflavone, also called didemethyl-ginkgetin 3\u2019,8\u201d biapigenin, is a plant bioflavonoid found in serval plants, such as Ginkgo biloba, Chamaecyparis obtusa, Hypericum perforatum, and Selaginella tamariscina, etc. Amentoflavone has a number of bio-pharmacological effects including anti-inflammation, antioxidation, anti-virus, neuroprotection, and anti-cancer. At present study, we found that secretion of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and nitric oxide (NO) were inhibited by amentoflavone in a concentration-dependent manner in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)/interferon\u03b3 (INF\u03b3)-stimulated BV2 microglial cells. LPS/INF\u03b3 induced protein expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) was inhibited by amentoflavone in the same concentration range. Moreover, amentoflavone not only reduced the phosphorylation of nuclear factor (NF)-\u03baB but also inhibited the phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), including ERK, JNK, and p38 MAPK, induced by LPS. In addition, a parallel concentration-dependent manner was observed in inhibition of secretion of PGE2 and NO, expression of iNOS and COX-2, and phosphorylation of MAPKs and NF\u03baB pathway. These results suggested that amentoflavone possessed potential against LPS/INF\u03b3-induced secretion of PGE2 and NO via downregulation of iNOS and COX-2 expressions by blocking activation of NF\u03baB pathway via phosphorylation of MAPKs.', u'/manuscript/201611.0069/v1', [u'Nutrition'], [u'Department of Emergency Medicine, Jen-Ai Hospital, Taichung 40041, Taiwan', u'School of Public Health, Chung Shan Medical University, Taichung 40201, Taiwan', u'Department of Anatomy, School of Medicine, Chung Shan Medical University, Taichung 40201, Taiwan', u'Department of Pharmacology, Jen-Ai Hospital, Taichung 40041, Taiwan', u'Central Taiwan University of Science and Technology, Taichung 40601, Taiwan', u'Department of Optometry, Asia University, Taichung 41354, Taiwan', u'Department of Medical Research, China Medical University Hospital, China Medical University, Taichung 40402, Taiwan', u'School of Medical Applied Chemistry, Chung Shan Medical University, Taichung 40201, Taiwan', u'Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, Chung Shan Medical University, Taichung 40201, Taiwan', u'Department of Pharmacy, Chung Shan Medical University Hospital, Taichung 40201, Taiwan']]
[u'Larval Survivorship and Settlement of Crown-of-Thorns Starfish (Acanthaster cf. solaris) at Varying Chlorophyll Concentrations', ['Morgan S. Pratchett', 'Symon Dworjanyn', 'Benjamin Mos', 'Ciemon F. Caballes', 'Cassandra A. Thompson', 'Shane Blowes'], u'November 14 2016', u'The dispersal potential of crown-of-thorns starfish (CoTS) larvae is important in understanding both the initiation and spread of population outbreaks, and is fundamentally dependent upon how long larvae can persist while still retaining the capacity to settle. This study quantified variation in larval survivorship and settlement rates for CoTS maintained at three different chlorophyll concentrations (0.1, 1.0 or 10.0 \xb5g.L-1), achieved by varying densities of single-celled flagellate phytoplankton, Proteomonas sulcata. Based on the larval starvation hypothesis we expected that low to moderate algal concentrations would significantly constrain both survival and settlement. CoTS larvae were successfully maintained for up to 50 days post-fertilization, but larval survival differed significantly between treatments. Survival was greatest at intermediate (1.0 \xb5g.L-1) chlorophyll concentrations, and lowest at highest (10.0 \xb5g.L-1) chlorophyll concentrations. Rates of settlement were also highest at intermediate (1.0 \xb5g.L-1) chlorophyll concentrations and peaked at 22 days post-fertilization. Peak settlement was delayed at low chlorophyll concentrations, probably reflective of delayed development, but there was no evidence of accelerated development at high chlorophyll concentrations. CoTS larvae were capable of settling 17-43 days post-fertilization, but under optimum conditions with intermediate chlorophyll concentrations, peak settlement occurred at 22 days post-fertilization. Moderate increases in nutrient concentrations and algal densities may increase the number of CoTS that effectively settle, but are unlikely to influence dispersal dynamics.', u'/manuscript/201611.0074/v1', [u'Ecology'], [u'ARC Centre of Excellence for Coral Reef Studies, James Cook University, Townsville QLD 4811, Australia', u'National Marine Science Centre, Southern Cross University, Coffs Harbour NSW 2450, Australia', u'Department of Zoology, George S. Wise Faculty of Life Sciences, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv 69978, Israel']]
[u'Resveratrol Impacts SIRT1 Signaling Pathways in a Rat Model of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease', ['Xiaoli Wang', 'Ting Li', 'Ji-Hong Li', 'Shu-Ying Miao', 'Xianzhong Xiao'], u'November 15 2016', u"Oxidative stress is hypothesized to contribute to the pathogenesis of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).The study was purposed to investigate the effects of resveratrol (trans-3,5,4'-trihydroxystilbene) in a rat model with COPD on the regulation of oxidative stress via the activation of Sirtuin1 (SIRTl) and proliferator-activated receptor-\u03b3 coactivator-1\u03b1 (PGC-1\u03b1).Thirty Wistar rats were randomly divided into three groups: control group, COPD group and resveratrol intervention group. The model of COPD was established by instilling with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and challenging with cigarette smoke (CS). The pathological changes in lungs were evaluated by hematoxylin and eosin (HE) stain. The levels of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and interleukin-8 (IL-8) in serum were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The level of malondialdehyde (MDA) and the activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD) in both lung tissue homogenate and bronchial alveolar lavage fluid (BALF) were examined by using the commercially available kits. The expression levels of SIRT1 and PGC-1\u03b1 in the lung tissues were examined by immunohistochemistry as well as real-time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (real-time RT-PCR) and western blotting analysis. After the treatment with resveratrol (50mg/kg), compared with the COPD group, the alleviation of inflammation and the reconstruction in the small airways of lungs were seen, which might be correlated not only with the lower level of MDA and the higher activity of SOD, but also with the upregulation of SIRT1 and PGC-1\u03b1 expression. Resveratrol treatment also decreased serum levels of IL-6 and IL-8. The results indicated that resveratrol appeared to reduce oxidative stress by altering the levels of MDA and SOD in our rat COPD model, and the possible mechanism of this intervention effect of resveratrol with COPD may be associated with its upregulation of SIRT1and PGC-1\u03b1.Thus resveratrol might be a therapeutic modality in COPD.", u'/manuscript/201611.0076/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], [u'Department of Pathophysiology, Xiangya School of Medicine, Central South University, Changsha, Hunan 410000, China', u'Medical College of Jishou University, Jishou, Hunan 416000, China']]
[u'Determination of Wheat Growth, Crop Coefficient (KC) and Water Stress Coefficient (Ks) under Different Salinity', ['Meysam Abedinpour'], u'November 17 2016', u'A field experiment was conducted for determination of crop coefficient (KC) and water stress coefficient (Ks) for wheat crop under different salinity levels, during 2015-16. Complete randomized block design of five treatments were considered, i.e., 0.51 dS/m (fresh water) as a control treatment and other four saline water treatments (4, 6, 8 and 10 dS/m), for S1, S2, S3 and S4 with three replications. The results revealed that the water consumed by plants during the different crop growth stages follows the order of FW>S1>S2>S3>S4 salinity levels. According to the obtained results, the calculated values of crop coefficients significantly differed from those suggested by FAO No.56 for the crops. The Ks values clearly differ from one stage to another because the salt stress causes both osmotic stress, due to a decrease in the soil water potential, and ionic stress which the average values of water stress coefficient (Ks) follows this order; FW(1.0)=S1(1.0)>S2(1.0)>S3(0.93)>S4(0.82). Overall, it was found the differences are attributed primarily to specific cultivar, the changes in local climatic conditions and seasonal differences in crop growth patterns. Thus, further studies are essential to determine the crop coefficient values under different variables, to make the best management practice (BMP) in agriculture.', u'/manuscript/201611.0091/v1', [u'Agricultural Sciences & Agronomy'], [u'Water Engineering Department, Kashmar Higher Education Istitute, Kashmar, Iran']]
[u'Estimation of the Daily Salt Intake by 24-Hour Urinary Sodium Excretion in Morocco: A Pilot Study', ['Abdelfettah Derouiche', 'Younes El-Kardi', 'Karima Mohtadi', 'Ali Jafri'], u'November 17 2016', u'Introduction: Hypertension is a serious public health problem in Morocco. The objective of this pilot study was to estimate the salt intake of Moroccan adults by measuring 24-hour urinary sodium excretion. Methods: 132 participants were recruited from the central region of Morocco. Sodium, potassium and creatinine levels were measured using the 24-hour urine samples. Additional data included anthropometric measurements and socio-demographic questionnaire. Results: The daily sodium, potassium and creatinine excretions were 2779.1\xb11334.9 mg, 1350.0\xb1642.8 mg and 820.3 \xb1 381.2 mg, respectively. Data analysis revealed that 71.2% of the participants had a daily sodium intake more than 2000 mg (5g of salt) recommended by the WHO. The mean of potassium excretion was 1350.0\xb1642.8 mg /day, this average was lower than 3.51g per day recommended by the WHO. Conclusion: Public health measures to reduce sodium and increase potassium consumption in order to decrease the population\u2019s risk of high blood pressure and heart disease are recommended.', u'/manuscript/201611.0089/v1', [u'Nutrition'], [u'Research Unit of Human Nutrition, Research Laboratory of Biology and Health (URAC34), University Hassan 2 Casablanca, Casablanca 20100, Morocco']]
[u'Transcription Profile Unveils the Cardioprotective Effect of Aspalathin against Lipid Toxicity', ['Rabia Johnson', 'Phiwayinkosi V. Dludla', 'Christo J.F. Muller', 'Barbara Huisamen', 'M. Faadiel Essop', 'Johan Louw'], u'November 17 2016', u'Aspalathin, a C-glucosyl dihydrochalcone, has previously been shown to protect cardiomyocytes against hyperglycemia-induced shifts in substrate preference and subsequent apoptosis. However, the precise gene regulatory network remains to be elucidated. To unravel the mechanism and provide insight into this supposition, the direct effect of aspalathin in an isolated cell-based system, without the influence of any variables, was tested using an H9c2 cardiomyocytes model. Cardiomyocytes were exposed to high glucose (33 mM) for 48 hours before post-treatment with or without aspalathin. Thereafter, RNA was extracted and RT2 PCR Profiler Arrays were used to profile the expression of 336 genes. Results showed that, 57 genes were differentially regulated in the high glucose or high glucose and aspalathin treated groups. STRING analysis revealed lipid metabolism and molecular transport as the biological processes altered after high glucose treatment, followed by inflammation and apoptosis. Aspalathin was able to modulate key regulators associated with lipid metabolism (Adipoq, Apob, Cd36, Cpt1, Ppar\u03b3, Srebf1/2, Scd1 and Vldlr), insulin resistance (Igf1, Akt1, Pde3 and Map2k1), inflammation (Il3, Il6, Jak2, Lepr, Socs3, and Tnf13) and apoptosis (Bcl2 and Chuk). Collectively, our results propose that aspalathin could reverse metabolic abnormalities by activating Adipoq while modulating the expression of Ppar\u03b3 and Srebf1/2, decreasing inflammation via Il6/Jak2 pathway, which together with an observed increased expression of Bcl2 prevents myocardium apoptosis.', u'/manuscript/201611.0094/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Biomedical Research and Innovation Platform (BRIP), Medical Research Council (MRC), Tygerberg, South Africa', u'Division of Medical Physiology, Faculty of Health Sciences, Stellenbosch University, Tygerberg, South Africa', u'Cardio-Metabolic Research Group (CMRG), Department of Physiological Sciences, Stellenbosch University, Stellenbosch, South Africa']]
[u'Aspalathin Protects the Heart against Hyperglycemia-Induced Oxidative Damage by Up-regulating Nrf2 Expression', ['Phiwayinkosi V. Dludla', 'Christo J. F. Muller', 'Elizabeth Joubert', 'Johan Louw', 'M. Faadiel Essop', 'Kwazi B. Gabuza', 'Samira Ghoor', 'Barbara Huisamen', 'Rabia Johnson'], u'November 17 2016', u'Aspalathin (ASP) can protect H9c2 cardiomyocytes against high glucose (HG)-induced shifts in myocardial substrate preference, oxidative stress and apoptosis. While the protective mechanism of aspalathin remains unknown, nuclear factor (erythroid-derived 2)-like 2 (Nrf2) has emerged as a key factor for intracellular responses against oxidative stress. Therefore, we hypothesized that aspalathin protects the myocardium against hyperglycemia-induced oxidative damage by up-regulating Nrf2 expression in H9c2 cardiomyocytes and diabetic (db/db) mice. Using an oxidative stress RT2 Profiler PCR array, ASP at a dose of 1 \xb5M was demonstrated to protect H9c2 cardiomyocytes against HG-induced oxidative stress, but silencing of Nrf2 abolished this protective response of ASP and exacerbated cardiomyocyte apoptosis. Db/db mice and their non-diabetic (db/+) littermate controls were subsequently treated daily for 6 weeks with either a low (13 mg/kg) or high (130 mg/kg) ASP dose. Compared to nondiabetic mice the db/db mice presented increased cardiac remodeling and enlarged left ventricular wall that occurred concomitant to enhanced oxidative stress. Daily treatment of mice with ASP at a dose of 130 mg/kg for 6 weeks was more effective at reversing complications than both a low dose ASP or metformin, eliciting enhanced expression of Nrf2 and its downstream antioxidant genes. These results indicate that ASP maintains cellular homeostasis and protects the myocardium against hyperglycemia-induced stress through activation of Nrf2 and its downstream target genes.', u'/manuscript/201611.0093/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Biomedical Research and Innovation Platform (BRIP), Medical Research Council (MRC), Tygerberg, South Africa', u'Division of Medical Physiology, Faculty of Health Sciences, Stellenbosch University, Tygerberg, South Africa', u'Post-Harvest and Wine Technology Division, Agricultural Research Council (ARC) Infruitec- Nietvoorbij, Stellenbosch, South Africa', u'Department of Food Science, Stellenbosch University, Stellenbosch, South Africa', u'Cardio-Metabolic Research Group (CMRG), Department of Physiological Sciences, Stellenbosch University, Stellenbosch, South Africa']]
[u'Critical Minireview: The Fate of tRNACys during Oxidative Stress in Bacillus subtilis', ['Juan Campos Guillen', 'George H. Jones', 'Carlos Saldana Gutierrez', 'Jose Luis Hernandez Flores', 'Julio Alfonso Cruz Medina', 'Jose Humberto Valenzuela Soto', 'Sergio Pacheco Hernandez', 'Sergio Romero Gomez', 'Veronica Morales Tlalpan'], u'November 17 2016', u'Oxidative stress occurs when cells are exposed to elevated levels of reactive oxygen species that could damage biological molecules. One bacterial response to oxidative stress involves disulfide bond formation either between protein thiols or between protein thiols and low-molecular-weight thiols. Bacillithiol was recently identified as a major low-molecular-weight thiol in Bacillus subtilis and related Firmicutes. Four genes (bshA, bshB1, bshB2 and bshC) are involved in bacillithiol biosynthesis. The bshA and bshB1 genes are part of a seven-gene operon (ypjD), which includes the essential gene cca, encoding CCA-tRNA nucleotidyltransferase. The inclusion of cca in the operon containing bacillithiol biosynthetic genes suggests that the integrity of the 3\u2019 terminus of tRNAs may also be important in oxidative stress. Addition of the 3\xb4 terminal CCA sequence by CCA-tRNA nucleotidyltransferase to give a mature tRNA and functional molecules ready for aminoacylation plays an essential role during translation and expression of the genetic code. Any defects in these processes, for example, the accumulation of shorter and defective tRNAs under oxidative stress, could exert a deleterious effect on cells. This review summarizes the physiological link between tRNACys regulation and oxidative stress in Bacillus.', u'/manuscript/201611.0087/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Facultad de Qu\xedmica, Universidad Aut\xf3noma de Quer\xe9taro, Cerro d e las Campanas s/n,  Quer\xe9taro Qro., 76010, Mexico', u'Department of Biology, Emory University, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA', u'Facultad de Ciencias Naturales, Universidad Aut\xf3noma de Quer\xe9taro, Cerro de las Campanas s/n, Quer\xe9taro Qro., 76010, Mexico', u'Centro de Investigaci\xf3n y de Estudios Avanzados del IPN, P.O. Box 629, Irapuato 36500, GTO, M\xe9xico', u'Centro de Investigaci\xf3n en Qu\xedmica Aplicada, Blvd. Enrique Reyna Hermosillo No.140, Saltillo 25294, Coahuila, M\xe9xico', u'Facultad de Medicina, Universidad Aut\xf3noma de Quer\xe9taro, Cerro de las Campanas s/n,  Quer\xe9taro Qro., 76010, Mexico']]
[u'Pneumonia, Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome and Early Immune-Modulator Therapy', ['Kyung-Yil Lee'], u'November 18 2016', u'Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is caused by infectious insults, such as pneumonia from various pathogens or related to other noninfectious events. Clinical and histopathologic characteristics are similar across severely affected patients, suggesting that a common mode of immune reaction may be involved in the immunopathogenesis of ARDS. There may be etiologic substances that have an affinity for respiratory cells and induce lung cell injury in cases of ARDS. These substances originate not only from pathogens, but also from injured host cells. At the molecular level, these substances have various sizes and biochemical characteristics, classifying them as protein substances and non-protein substances. Immune cells and immune proteins may recognize and act on these substances, including pathogenic proteins and peptides, depending upon the size and biochemical properties of the substances (this theory is known as the protein-homeostasis-system hypothesis). The severity or chronicity of ARDS depends on the amount of etiologic substances with corresponding immune reactions, the duration of the appearance of specific immune cells, or the repertoire of specific immune cells that control the substances. Therefore, treatment with early systemic immune modulators (corticosteroids and/or intravenous immunoglobulin) as soon as possible may reduce aberrant immune responses in the potential stage of ARDS.', u'/manuscript/201611.0099/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], [u'Department of Pediatrics, College of Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea,  Seoul 06591, Korea', u'Department of Pediatrics, The Catholic University of Korea Daejeon St. Mary\u2019s Hospital,  Daejeon 34943, Korea']]
[u'Inhibition of Autophagy by Deguelin Sensitizes Pancreatic Cancer Cells to Doxorubicin', ['Xiao-Dong Xu', 'Yan Zhao', 'Min Zhang', 'Rui-Zhi He', 'Xiu-Hui Shi', 'Xing-Jun Guo', 'Cheng-Jian Shi', 'Feng Peng', 'Min Wang', 'Min Shen', 'Xin Wang', 'Xu Li', 'Ren-Yi Qin'], u'November 21 2016', u'Pancreatic cancer is the fourth most common cause of cancer mortality worldwide. Furthermore, patients with pancreatic cancer experience limited benefit from current chemotherapeutic approaches because of drug resistance. Therefore, an effective therapeutic strategy for patients with pancreatic cancer is urgently required. Deguelin is a natural chemopreventive drug that exerts potent antiproliferative activity in solid tumors by inducing cell death. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying this activity have not been fully elucidated. Here we show that deguelin blocks autophagy and induces apoptosis in pancreatic cancer cells in vitro. Autophagy induced by doxorubicin plays a protective role in pancreatic cancer cells, and suppressing autophagy by chloroquine or silencing autophagy protein 5 enhanced doxorubicin-induced cell death. Similarly, inhibition of autophagy by deguelin also chemosensitized pancreatic cancer cell lines to doxorubicin. These findings suggest that deguelin has potent anticancer effects against pancreatic cancer and potentiates the anti-cancer effects of doxorubicin. These findings provide evidence that combined treatment with deguelin and doxorubicin represents an effective strategy for treating pancreatic cancer.', u'/manuscript/201611.0107/v1', [u'Gastroenterology'], [u'Department of Biliary-Pancreatic Surgery, Affiliated Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College,  Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430074, China']]
[u'Comparison of Two EpCAM-Based Methods for CTC Detection and Molecular Characterization in Advanced Colorectal Cancer', ['Santiago Cabezas-Camarero', 'Virginia De La Orden', 'Silvia Veganzones-De-Castro', 'Beatriz Medievo-Valeros', 'Manuel Enrique Fuentes-Ferrer', 'Antonio Sanchez-Ruiz', 'Mariano Provencio', 'Enrique Aranda', 'Javier Sastre', 'Eduardo Diaz-Rubio'], u'November 21 2016', u'Circulating tumor cells (CTC) have shown to be prognostic in advanced colorectal cancer (advCRC), but their value for predicting response to treatment or as a source of molecular data is debated. We compared CellSearch\xae (Janssen Diagnostics, LLC) and IsoFluxTM (Fluxion Biosciences Inc, South San Francisco, CA) systems for the enumeration of CTC in patients with newly diagnosed advCRC (group 1; n=34). Using castPCRTM we studied KRAS status in CTC isolated with IsoFluxTM and compared it with that of the primary tumor in patients from group 1 and in KRAS wild-type (KRASWT) patients with progressive disease (group 2; n=22). Median number of CTC detected with CellSearch\xae (groups 1 and 2) was 1 (range: 0-78) and with IsoFluxTM (group 1) was 8 (range: 0-419), showing a modest correlation (r=0.345, P=0.036), which improved if lung metastases (r=0.805, P=0.016) or if lung and liver metastases were present (r=0.812, P=0.05). A Bland-Altman plot showed that the higher the number of CTC detected the larger the difference between both methods in favor of IsoFluxTM. After a median follow-up since CTC collection of 16 months (range: 1-30) CellSearch\xae\xa0\u2265 3 CTC (HR 2.77, 95% CI 0.77-9.95) and IsoFluxTM\xa0\u2265 11 CTC (HR 4.14, 95% CI 1.05-16.19) were established as the best cutoff points for predicting survival. Using castPCRTM we found KRAS mutations in CTC in 4 out of 8 patients from group 1 and in 2 out of 3 patients from group 2. None of these mutations were found in the primary tumor using standard methods, possibly reflecting intratumor heterogeneity or treatment selection pressure. We conclude that IsoFluxTM is more efficient than CellSearch\xae in the isolation of CTC in patients with advCRC, achieving, in a majority of cases, the established minimum of CTC for castPCRTM-based genetic analyses.', u'/manuscript/201611.0105/v1', [u'Oncology & Oncogenics'], [u'Medical Oncology Department, Instituto de Investigaci\xf3n Sanitaria San Carlos (IdISSC), Hospital Cl\xednico Universitario San Carlos, Centre afilliated to Red de Centros CIBER, 28040 Madrid, Spain', u'CTC Unit, Hospital Cl\xednico Universitario San Carlos, 28040 Madrid, Spain', u'UGC de Medicina Preventiva, Hospital Cl\xednico San Carlos, Instituto de Investigaci\xf3n Sanitaria del Hospital Cl\xednico San Carlos (IdISSC), 28040 Madrid, Spain', u'Medical Oncology Department, Hospital Universitario Puerta de Hierro-Majadahonda, IDIPHIM, Universidad Aut\xf3noma de Madrid, 28049 Madrid, Spain', u'Medical Oncology Department, IMIBIC, Hospital Universitario Reina Sof\xeda, C\xf3rdoba, University of C\xf3rdoba, RETICC, 14002 C\xf3rdoba, Spain']]
[u'Myocardial Infarction Promoted the Contrast-Induced Nephropathy by Renal Injury', ['Zhiwen Tao', 'Ningtian Zhou', 'Fan Huang', 'Bo Chen', 'Zhijian Yang'], u'November 21 2016', u'Background: The morbidity of myocardial infarction is keeping raise in this decade. Because of high safety and operability , percutaneous coronary intervention(PCI) has been used to conquer this disease for more than 20 years.An important complication of PCI is contrast induced nephropathy(CIN), which raises our attention. Previously, we started a study to explore the correlation between acute kidney injury and myonecrosis after scheduled percutaneous coronary intervention. Our study showed that the rate of CI-AKI in patients with post-procedural myocardial injury and undergoing elective PCI was higher than that in patients free of injury. Methods: In this study,forty male rats were randomly divided into four groups: control group (n=8), CM group (n=12), AMI group (n=8) and AMI+CM group (n=12), then velocity of renal artery blood flow (VRABF), computer tomography (CT), serum creatinine(Scr), reactive oxidative species (ROS), periodic acid-Schiff (PAS) and TUNEL were used to estimate the injury of kidney. We analyzed 327 non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndrome subjects undertaking elective PCI. Serum levels of creatinine (SCr) and the eGFR before coronary angiography, and 24\u201372 h after contrast administration were recorded to assess the renal function. Results: The data showed that VRABF was lower in AMI+CM group than CM group from 0 minute to 24h and CT number in cortex was higher in AMI+CM group than CM group at 4-hour. As well as the level of Scr in AMI+CM group displayed a significantly increase at 24-hour compared with CM group. The histopathologic scores and percentage of tubular cell apoptosis were higher in AMI+CM group at 24-hour. In 327 patients, we found that CI-AKI occurred more often in subjects with post-procedural myonecrosis (PMN) than in those without PMN (20.8% versus 5.8%, respectively, P=0.001). Conclusion: Compared to the elective patient, the injury of CIN exhibited a higher severity in AMI patient.', u'/manuscript/201611.0108/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Department of Cardiology,Sir RunRun Hospital of Nanjing Medical University', u'Department of Cardiology, The First Af\ufb01liated Hospital of Nanjing Medical University']]
[u'RNA-Seq Based Transcriptomic Analysis of Cppu Treated Grape Berries and Emission of Volatile Compounds', ['Wu Wang', 'Muhammad Khalil-Ur-Rehman', 'Jiao Feng', 'Jiyuan Wang', 'Jianmin Tao'], u'November 22 2016', u'Grape vine (Vitis vinifera L.) is considered one of the most popular and common fruit crops in the world. CPPU [forchlorfenuron N-(2-chloro-4-pyridyl)-N-phenylurea] is a synthetic cytokine like plant regulator promotes grape berry set and development. Although a variety of volatile secondary metabolites that contribute to aroma quality have been identified, our understanding of the biosynthetic pathways of these compounds has remained largely incomplete. Therefore, information about the transcriptome of grape berries and specifically, details of any change in gene expression in response to CPPU is required for better understanding of the biological mechanism of CPPU mediated volatile biosynthesis. The results of gas-chromatography mass-spectrometry (GC-MS) revealed that terpenols, especially linalool, was greatly reduced in CPPU-treated berries as compared to untreated. We performed RNA-seq analysis of \u2018Shine Muscat\u2019 grape to identify the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) related to volatile biosynthesis induced by CPPU treatment 0, 5, and 10 mg.L-1 in grape berries. A total of 494, 1237, and 1085 DEGs were detected in CPPU0 vs CPPU5, CPPU0 vs CPPU10, and CPPU5 vs CPPU10 treatments respectively. The results were compared against two databases, Gene Ontology (GO), and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) to annotate gene description and assign a pathway to each gene. Of the 116 total pathways annotated by the KEGG analysis, the most represented pathways were the biosynthesis of secondary metabolites, plant hormone signal transduction, phenylpropanoid metabolism and carotenoid biosynthesis. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) related to redox activity were abundant in the GO biological process category. RT-qPCR assay results for twelve selected transcripts validated the data obtained by RNA-seq. GC-MS analysis revealed that exogenous CPPU application reduce the level of volatile components in grape berries especially linalool and its oxides. Our results provide the first sequential transcriptomic atlas of CPPU treated grape berries which may pave the way for ultimate improvements fruit quality of grape.', u'/manuscript/201611.0112/v1', [u'Horticulture'], [u'College of Horticulture, Nanjing Agricultural University, No. 1 Weigang,  Nanjing 210095, China']]
[u'A Possible Role of an Interaction of the Age at Common Childhood Infections and Selected Dietary Factors at Young Age, for the Risk of Multiple Sclerosis', ['Klaus Lauer', 'Annette Wahl', 'Marcel Geilenkeuser'], u'November 22 2016', u'An increased risk of multiple sclerosis (MS) had been found when individuals had consumed large amounts of processed meat and sausages at young age (Lauer, 2014). Furthermore it was found in many studies that MS patients had acquired a number of common childhood infections at higher ages than controls. Therefore, MS patients from an epidemiological long-term investigation in Germany and different hospital controls, were evaluated for a statistical interaction of these two factors. 324 MS patients and 242 hospital controls were inquired. The study focussed on age 0 - 16. Subjects were tested for\xa0additive interaction by multiple linear regression analysis (Knol et al., 2007). There was an additive interaction of the age at any common childhood infection with the consumption of scalded sausages (regression estimate = 0.1370; standard error = 0.0603; p = 0.0239). In contrast, no such\xa0interaction could be shown for: animal fats; smoked meat (e.g. ham and bacon); and cold - smoked German salami. Thus there was a synergy of the intake of scalded sausages (e.g. frankfurters, bolognas, etc.) and\xa0age at common childhood infections, for the later risk of MS.', u'/manuscript/201611.0114/v1', [u'Behavioral Neuroscience'], [u'Private neuro-epidemiologist Eulerweg 4, D-64347 Griesheim, Germany', u'Neurologicum Darmstadt, Luisenplatz 1, D-64283 Darmstadt, Germany', u'Neurologische Gemeinschaftspraxis, Hammergasse 1, D-64372 Ober-Ramstadt, Germany']]
[u'Selective Feeding and Microalgal Consumption Rates by Crown-of-Thorns Seastar (Acanthaster cf. solaris) Larvae', ['Camille Mellin', 'Claire Lugrin', 'Ken Okaji', 'David S. Francis', 'Sven Uthicke'], u'November 24 2016', u'Outbreaks of the crown-of-thorns seastar (CoTS) represent a major cause of coral loss on the Great Barrier Reef. Outbreaks might be explained by enhanced larval survival supported by higher phytoplankton availability after flood events, yet little is known about CoTS larvae feeding behaviour, in particular their potential for selective feeding. Here, single- and mixed-species feeding experiments were conducted on CoTS bipinnaria larvae using five algae (Phaeodactylum tricornutum, Pavlova lutheri, Tisochrysis lutea , Dunaliella sp. and Chaetoceros sp.) and two algal concentrations (1000 and 2500 algae mL-1). Cell counts using flow-cytometry at the beginning and end of each incubation experiment allowed us to calculate the filtration and ingestion rates of each species by CoTS larvae. In line with previous studies, CoTS larvae ingested more algae when initial algal concentration was higher. We found evidence for the selective ingestion of some species (Chaetoceros sp., Dunaliella sp.) over others (P. lutheri, P. tricornutum). The preferred algal species had the highest energy content, suggesting that CoTS selectively ingested the most energetic algae. Ultimately, combining these results with spatio-temporal patterns in phytoplankton communities will help elucidate the role of larval feeding behaviour in determining the frequency and magnitude of CoTS outbreaks.', u'/manuscript/201611.0124/v1', [u'Ecology'], [u'Australian Institute of Marine Science PMB No 3, Townsville, Queensland 4810, Australia', u'The Environment Institute and School of Biological Sciences, The University of Adelaide, South Australia 5005, Australia', u'AgroParisTech, 75005 Paris, France', u'Coralquest Inc., 1-34-10 Asahicho, Atsugi 2430014, Japan', u'School of Life and Environmental Sciences, Deakin University, Warrnambool Campus, Princes Hwy, Sherwood Park, PO Box 423, Warrnambool VIC 3280, Australia']]
[u'Shifting Paradigm of Governance in the Natural Resources Management of Bangladesh: A Centralist to Pluralistic Approach in the Forest Protected Areas Management', ['A. Z. M. Manzoor Rashid', 'Donna Craig', 'Sharif Ahmed Mukul'], u'November 24 2016', u'Good governance in natural resource management (NRM) is one of the most challenging issues in developing countries that often inappropriately embedded in national policies and political agendas. It is, in fact, even more important for countries like Bangladesh with exceptionally high pressure and dependence on its natural resources for sustaining rural livelihoods. Globally, nowadays, good governance is considered as one of the key factor for achieving the goal of sustainable development and biodiversity conservation. Bangladesh, of late has responded to that global zeal by involving local communities in the management of country\u2019s declining forest and other natural resources. The colonial legacy of the forestry sector of Bangladesh was planned and, managed as interim projects through donors\u2019 prescriptions. Thus, institutions, management processes and conservation outcomes were problematic. The conventional approach adopted by colonial and post-colonial regimes for forest management also proved to be inefficient due to its top-down management system. The absolute dependency on donor support, and their prescription sometimes worsened the situation both ecologically and socially. Global, regional and local trends supported the need for a different dimension in the governance paradigms. The introduction of a pluralistic approach, known as co-management in protected areas (PAs) is an example of an attempt whereby shared governance mechanism are implemented to attain the desired goals of conservation that will also address the livelihoods and aspirations of communities living in and around PAs of the country. However, in designing future forest and PA regimes the concern of the external aid support and attached conditions remain a reality that needs to be addressed. Adequate attention should be given to our vanishing biodiversity, culture and community livelihoods through devising an appropriate governance mechanism recognizing and supporting local rights, access and participation in the environmental management. It is now time to mainstream the adhoc nature of governance according to our national conservation strategy and policy frameworks in order to achieve the goals and objectives of the Bangladesh NRM sector addressing the human and community right of people in the specific context of forest protected areas management.', u'/manuscript/201611.0123/v1', [u'Forestry'], [u'Department of Forestry and Environmental Science, School of Agriculture and Mineral Sciences, Shahjalal University of Science and Technology, Sylhet 3114, Bangladesh', u'Environmental Law, School of Law, Western Sydney University,  Sydney NSW 2751, Australia', u'Tropical Forests and People Research Centre,  University of the Sunshine Coast, Maroochydore DC QLD 4556, Australia', u'Tropical Forestry Group, School of Agriculture and Food Sciences, The University of Queensland, Brisbane QLD 4072, Autsralia']]
[u'IQGAP1 in Podosome /Invadosome is Involved in the Progression of Glioblastoma Multiforme Depending on the Tumor Status', ['Deborah Rotoli', 'Natalia Perez-Rodriguez', 'Manuel Morales', 'Maria Del Carmen Maeso', 'Julio Avila', 'Ali Mobasheri', 'Pablo Martin-Vasallo'], u'November 24 2016', u'Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most frequent and aggressive primary brain tumor. GBM is formed by a very heterogeneous astrocyte population, neurons, neovascularization and infiltrating myeloid cells (microglia and monocyte derived macrophages). The IQGAP1 scaffold protein interacts with components of the cytoskeleton, cell adhesion molecules, and several signaling molecules to regulate cell morphology and motility, cell cycle and other cellular functions. IQGAP1 overexpression and delocalization has been observed in several tumors, suggesting a role for this protein in cell proliferation, transformation and invasion. IQGAP1 has been identified as a marker of amplifying cancer cells in GBMs. To determine the involvement of IQGAP1 in the onco-biology of GBM, we performed immunohistochemical confocal microscopical analysis of the IQGAP1 protein in human GBM tissue samples using cell type-specific markers. IQGAP1 immunostaining and subcellular localization was heterogeneous; the protein was located in the plasma membrane and, at variable levels, in nucleus and/or cytosol). Moreover, IQGAP1 positive staining was found in podosome/invadopodia-like structures. IQGAP1+ staining was observed in neurons (Map2+ cells), in cancer stem cells (CSC; nestin+) and in several macrophages (CD31+ or Iba1+). Our results indicate that the IQGAP1 protein is involved in normal cell physiology and also in oncologic processes.', u'/manuscript/201611.0126/v1', [u'Oncology & Oncogenics'], [u'Laboratorio de Biolog\xeda del Desarrollo. UD de Bioqu\xedmica y Biolog\xeda Molecular and Centro de Investigaciones Biom\xe9dicas de Canarias (CIBICAN), Universidad de La Laguna, La Laguna,  Av. Astrof\xedsico S\xe1nchez s/n. 38206 La Laguna. Tenerife. Spain', u'CNR \u2013 National Research Council, Institute of Endocrinology and Experimental Oncology (IEOS), Via Sergio Pansini, 5 \u2013 80131, Naples, Italy', u'Service of Medical Oncology, University Hospital Nuestra Se\xf1ora de Candelaria, Santa Cruz de Tenerife 38010, Canary Islands, Spain', u'Medical Oncology, Hospiten\xae Hospitals, Tenerife, Spain', u'Service of Pathology, University Hospital Nuestra Se\xf1ora de Candelaria, Santa Cruz de Tenerife 38010, Canary Islands, Spain', u'Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of Surrey, Guildford, Surrey, GU2 7XH, United Kingdom', u'Center of Excellence in Genomic Medicine Research (CEGMR), King Fahd Medical Research Center (KFMRC), Faculty of Applied Medical Sciences, King AbdulAziz University, Jeddah, 21589, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia']]
[u'Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Neoplasms: Basic Biology, Current Treatment Strategies and Prospects for the Future', ['Akihiro Ohmoto', 'Hirofumi Rokutan', 'Shinichi Yachida'], u'November 24 2016', u'Pancreatic neuroendocrine neoplasms (pNENs) are rare tumors accounting for only 1-2% of all pancreatic tumors. pNENs are pathologically heterogeneous and are categorized into three groups (neuroendocrine tumor: NET G1, NET G2 and neuroendocrine carcinoma: NEC) on the basis of Ki-67 proliferation index and mitotic count according to the 2010 WHO classification of gastroenteropancreatic NENs. NEC in this classification includes both histologically well-differentiated and poorly differentiated subtypes, and modification of the WHO 2010 classification is under discussion based on genetic and clinical data. Genomic analysis has revealed NETs G1/G2 have genetic alterations in chromatin remodeling genes such as MEN1, DAXX and ATRX, whereas NECs have an inactivation of TP53 and RB1, and these data suggest that different treatment approaches would be required for NET G1/G2 and NEC. While there are promising molecular targeted drugs, such as everolimus or sunitinib, for advanced NET G1/G2, treatment stratification based on appropriate predictive and prognostic biomarkers is becoming an important issue. The clinical outcome of NEC is still dismal, and a more detailed understanding of the genetic backround together with preclinical studies to develop new agents, including those already under investigation for SCLC, will be needed to improve the prognosis.', u'/manuscript/201611.0120/v1', [u'Oncology & Oncogenics'], [u'Division of Cancer Genomics, National Cancer Center Research Institute, Tokyo 1040045, Japan']]
[u'Up-regulation of Lamin A/C Expression in Epstein-Barr Virus Immortalized B Cells and Burkitt Lymphoma Cell Lines of Activated B Cell Phenotype', ['Ferenc Banati', 'Anita Koroknai', 'Kalman Szenthe', 'Tamas Tereh', 'Nora Kovacs', 'Anita Hidasi', 'Barbara Bankuti', 'Krisztina Buzas', 'Frederic Lemnitzer', 'Zsolt Ruzsics', 'Susan Szathmary', 'Hans Wolf', 'Daniel Salamon', 'Janos Minarovits', 'Hans-Helmut Niller'], u'November 24 2016', u'Lamin A, B and C, the nuclear intermediate-filament proteins, play a role in epigenetic regulation. While Lamin B is expressed in all nucleated cells studied, Lamin A/C are transcribed in most somatic cell types except mature B lymphocytes. Since Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), a human gammaherpesvirus, is associated with tumorigenic processes and is known to alter the epigenotype of its host cells, we studied the expression of the LMNA gene and its epigenetic marks in EBV-carrying human lymphoid cell lines. We observed a high lamin A/C mRNA and protein expression in EBV-immortalized lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs) and in group III Burkitt lymphoma (BL) lines where hypomethylated first exons were observed with activating histone marks. In most cell lines with low promoter activity a highly methylated first exon could be detected. Our data showed that methylation of the first exon of LMNA was associated with the downregulation of LMNA expression whereas euchromatic histone marks were enriched at active LMNA promoters in EBV-immortalized LCLs. These data suggest a role for viral latency products to activate LMNAp in EBV-infected latency type III B cells in vitro. Expression of lamin A/C may contribute to the establishment of activated B cell phenotype that needs further explorations.', u'/manuscript/201611.0125/v1', [u'Virology'], [u'RT-Europe Nonprofit Research Ltd., Pozsonyi u. 88., Mosonmagyar\xf3v\xe1r, H-9200, Hungary', u'Microbiological Research Group, National Center for Epidemiology, Albert Fl\xf3rian \xfat 2-6., Budapest, H-1097, Hungary', u'University of Szeged, Faculty of Dentistry, Department of Oral Biology and Experimental Dental Research, Tisza Lajos krt. 64., Szeged, H-6720, Hungary', u'Max von Pettenkofer-Institut, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xe4t M\xfcnchen, Pettenkofer str. 9a, D-80336 Munich, Germany', u'University of Freiburg, University Medical Center Freiburg, Institute of Virology, Hermann-Herder-Str. 11., Freiburg, D-79104, Germany', u'Galen-Bio Kft., Bart\xf3k B\xe9la \xfat 51. I/4, Budapest, H-1114, Hungary', u'University of Regensburg, Franz-Josef-Strauss Allee 11, Regensburg, D-93053, Germany', u'Department of Microbiology, Tumor and Cell Biology, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, SE-171 77, Box 280, Sweden']]
[u'Evaluation of EphA2 and EphB4 as Targets for Image-Guided Colorectal Cancer Surgery', ['Marieke A. Stammes', 'Hendrica A. J. M. Prevoo', 'Meyke C. Ter Horst', 'Stephanie A. Groot', 'Cornelis J. H. Van De Velde', 'Alan B. Chan', 'Lioe-Fee De Geus-Oei', 'Peter J. K. Kuppen', 'Alexander L. Vahrmeijer', 'Elena B. Pasquale', 'Cornelis F. M. Sier'], u'November 24 2016', u'Targeted image-guided oncologic surgery (IGOS) relies on the recognition of cell surface-associated proteins, which should be abundantly present on the tumor cells but preferably absent on cells in surrounding healthy tissue. The transmembrane receptor tyrosine kinase EphA2, a member of the A class of the Eph receptor family, has been reported to be highly overexpressed in several tumor types including breast, lung, brain, prostate, and colon cancer, and is considered amongst the most promising cell membrane-associated tumor antigens by the NIH. Another member of the Eph receptor family belonging to the B class, EphB4, has also been found to be up-regulated in multiple cancer types. In this study, EphaA2 and EphB4 are evaluated as target for IGOS of colorectal cancer by immunohistochemistry (IHC) using a tissue microarray (TMA) consisting of 168 pairs of tumor and normal tissue. The IHC sections were scored for staining intensity and percentage of cells stained. The results show a significantly enhanced staining intensity and more widespread distribution in tumor tissue compared with adjacent normal tissue for EphA2 as well as EphB4. Based on its more consistently higher score in colorectal tumor tissue compared to normal tissue, EphB4 appears to be an especially promising candidate for IGOS of colorectal cancer.', u'/manuscript/201611.0121/v1', [u'Other'], [u'Department of Radiology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden 2333 ZA, The Netherlands', u'Percuros BV, Leiden 7522 NB, The Netherlands', u'Department of Surgery, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden 2333 ZA, The Netherlands', u'Department of Nuclear Medicine, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden 2333 ZA, The Netherlands', u'Sanford Burnham Prebys Medical Discovery Institute, La Jolla, CA 92037, USA', u'Antibodies for Research Applications BV, Gouda 2805 HT, The Netherlands']]
[u'Robots to the Rescue: A Review of Studies on Differential Medical Diagnosis Employing Ontology-Based Chat Bot Technology', ['Bosede Iyiade Edwards', 'Idris Oladele Muniru', 'Adrian David Cheok'], u'November 25 2016', u'Access to medical care, especially in poor economies, is a key global issue. Telemedicine and other technology-aided approaches have been applied in addressing the challenge of access with many solutions that focus on closing the physician-patient gap. Medical diagnosis has however not fully represented in areas addressed through technology as fully automated and reliable diagnosis procedures are still far from being realized. Though a number of web-based applications are available, they employ text-based inputs rather than conversation in natural language. Ontology-based chatbot technology is being deployed to address this challenge through conversational agents. We explored the utility of ontology-based chatbot technology in medical diagnosis through a systematic review of the most recent related literature. English articles published in the last 5 years (2011-2016) returned 233 hits which yielded 11 relevant articles after screening of duplicates, title and abstracts. Findings showed that the creation of expert systems had been the focus of many of these studies with system training based mostly on expert knowledge and the physician-system-patient framework. The applications are designed to merely serve assistive purposes. The systems are deployed on the web or mobile phones. Findings further indicated gaps in the design and evaluation of more effective systems deployable as standalone applications, for example, on an embodied robotic system. The need for technology supporting the \u2018physical examination\u2019 part of diagnosis, connection to data sources on patients\u2019 vitals and medical history are also indicated in addition to the need for more qualitative work on natural language-based interaction. The system should be one that is continuously learning. Focus should also be directed towards the building of more robust knowledge base as well as evaluation of theory-based diagnostic methodological options\u3002', u'/manuscript/201611.0130/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], [u'Imagineering Institute (IDM Lab, Malaysia), 79200 Nusajaya, Malaysia', u'Department of Computing, Universiti Teknologi Malaysia, 81310 Skudai, Malaysia', u'10 Northampton Square City University London, College Building, Room A309a, University of London, London WC1E 7HU, UK']]
[u'Changes in Biochemical Parameters of the Calcium-Phosphorus Homeostasis in Relation to Nutritional Intake in Very-Low-Birth-Weight Infants', ['Viola Christmann', 'Charlotte J. W. Gradussen', 'Michelle N. Kornmann', 'Nel Roeleveld', 'Johannes B. Van Goudoever', 'Arno F.J. Van Heijst'], u'November 25 2016', u'Preterm infants are at significant risk to develop reduced bone mineralization based on inadequate supply of calcium and phosphorus (Ca-P). Biochemical parameters can be used to evaluate the nutritional intake. The direct effect of nutritional intake on changes in biochemical parameters has not been studied. Our objective was to evaluate the effect of Ca-P supplementation on biochemical markers as serum (s)/urinary (u) Ca and P; alkaline phosphatase (ALP); tubular reabsorption of P (TrP) and urinary ratios for Ca/creatinin and P/creatinin in Very-Low-Birth-Weight infants on postnatal day 1, 3, 5, 7, 10, and 14. This observational study compared two groups with High (n = 30) and Low (n = 40) intake of Ca-P. Birth weight: median (IRQ) 948 (772-1225) vs. 939 (776-1163) grams; Gestational age: 28.2 (26.5-29.6) vs. 27.8 (26.1-29.4) weeks. Daily median concentrations of biochemical parameter were not different between the groups but linear regression mixed model analyses showed that Ca intake increased the uCa and TrP (p = 0.04) and decreased ALP (p = 0.00). Phosphorus intake increased sP, uP and uP/creat ratio and ALP (p \u2264 0.02) and caused decrease in TrP (p = 0.00). Protein intake decreased sP (p = 0.000), while low gestational age and male gender increased renal excretion of P (p < 0.03). Standardized repeated measurements showed that biochemical parameters were affected by nutritional intake, gestational age and gender.', u'/manuscript/201611.0129/v1', [u'Nutrition'], [u'Department of Paediatrics, Subdivision of Neonatology, Radboudumc Amalia Children\u2019s Hospital, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen 6525 GA, The Netherlands', u'Department for Health Evidence, Radboud Institute for Health Science, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen 6525 GA, The Netherlands', u'Department of Paediatrics, Radboudumc Amalia Children\u2019s Hospital, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen 6525 GA, The Netherlands', u'Department of Paediatrics, VU University Medical Center, 1081 HV Amsterdam, The Netherlands', u'Department of Paediatrics, Emma Children\u2019s Hospital - AMC, 1105 AZ Amsterdam, The Netherlands']]
[u'Screening for Triterpenoid Saponins in Plants Using Hyphenated Analytical Platforms', ['Bekzod Khakimov', 'Li Hong Tseng', 'Markus Godeljohann', 'Sren Bak', 'Sren Balling Engelsen'], u'November 25 2016', u'Recently the number of studies investigating triterpenoid saponins has drastically increased due to their diverse and potentially attractive biological activities. Currently the literature contains chemical structures of few hundreds of triterpenoid saponins of plant and animal origin. Triterpenoid saponins consist of a triterpene aglycone with one or more sugar moieties attached to it. However, due to similar physico-chemical properties, isolation and identification of a large diversity of triterpenoid saponins remain challenging. This study demonstrates a methodology to screen saponins using hyphenated analytical platforms, GC-MS, LC-MS/MS, and LC-SPE-NMR/MS, in the example of two different phenotypes of the model plant Barbarea vulgaris (winter cress), glabrous (G) and pubescent (P) type that are known to differ by their insect resistance. The proposed methodology allows for detailed comparison of saponin profiles from intact plant extracts as well as saponin aglycone profiles from hydrolysed samples. Continuously measured 1D proton NMR data during LC separation along with mass spectrometry data revealed significant differences, including contents of saponins, types of aglycones and numbers of sugar moieties attached to the aglycone. A total of 49 peaks were tentatively identified as saponins from both plants; they are derived from eight types of aglycones and with 2\u20135 sugar moieties. Identification of two previously known insect-deterrent saponins, hederagenin cellobioside and oleanolic acid cellobioside, demonstrated the applicability of the methodology for relatively rapid screening of bioactive compounds.', u'/manuscript/201611.0128/v1', [u'Other'], [u'Department of Food Science, Faculty of Science, University of Copenhagen, Rolighedsvej 16,  DK-1958 Frederiksberg C, Denmark', u'Department of Plant and Environmental Sciences, Faculty of Science, University of Copenhagen, Rolighedsvej 16, DK-1958 Frederiksberg C Denmark', u'Bruker BioSpin GmbH, 76287 Rheinstetten, Germany']]
[u'Growth Hormone (GH) and Rehabilitation Promoted Distal Innervation in a Child Affected from a Syndrome of Caudal Regression', ['Jesus Devesa', 'Alba Alonso', 'Natalia Lopez', 'Jose Garcia', 'Carlos Israel Puell', 'Tamara Pablos', 'Pablo Devesa'], u'November 27 2016', u'Caudal regression syndrome (CRS) is a congenital abnormality characterized by an incomplete development of the spinal cord (SC) and other abnormalities. We studied a 9-months old CRS child presenting: interruption of SC at L2-L3 level, sacral agenesis, lack of innervation of the inferior limbs (flaccid paraplegia) and neurogenic bladder and bowel. Given the effects of growth hormone (GH) on the proliferation, differentiation and migration of neural stem cells (NSCs), we treated him with GH and rehabilitation, trying to induce the recovery of main sequelae. GMFM-88 test score was 12.31%. After a blood analysis, GH treatment (0.3 mg/day, 5 days/week, 3 months and then 15 days without GH) and rehabilitation commenced. This protocol was followed during 5 years, being the last GH dose 1 mg/day. Blood analysis and physical exams were performed every 3 months initially and every 6 months later. Six months after commencing the treatment GMFM-88 score increased to 39.48%. Responses to sensitive stimuli appeared in most of the territories explored; 18 months later sensitive innervation was complete and the patient moved any muscle over the knees and controlled his sphincters. Three years later he walked with the help of canes, there was plantar flexion and GMFM-88 score was 78.48%. In summary, GH plus rehabilitation may be useful for innervating distal territories, below the level of the incomplete spinal cord in CRS. Most likely, GH acts on ependymal SC NSCs, as the hormone does in the neurogenic niches in the brain.', u'/manuscript/201611.0133/v1', [u'Clinical Neurology'], [u'Scientific Direction, Medical Center Foltra, 15886-Teo, Spain', u'Children Physiotherapy, Medical Center Foltra, 15886-Teo, Spain', u'Adults Physiotherapy, Medical Center Foltra, 15886-Teo, Spain', u'Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical Center Foltra, 15886-Teo, Spain', u'Neurology, Medical Center Foltra, 15886-Teo, Spain', u'Research and Development, Medical Center Foltra, 15886-Teo, Spain']]
[u'Biomass Equations for 24 Understory Species in Coniferous and Broadleaved Mixed Forests in Northeastern China', ['Huaijiang He', 'Chunyu Zhang', 'Fengguo Du', 'Xiuhai Zhao', 'Song Yang', 'Qiang Zuo'], u'November 28 2016', u'Understory plants are important components of forest ecosystem productivity and diversity. Compared to biomass models of overstory canopy trees, few are available for understory saplings and shrubs and therefore their roles in estimation of forest carbon pools are often ignored. In this study, we harvested 24 understory species including 4 saplings, 9 tree-like shrubs and 11 typical shrubs in coniferous and broadleaved mixed forest in northeastern China and developed the best fit allometric equations of above- and below-ground and total biomass by species-specific or multispecies using morphological measurements of basal diameter, height and crown area as independent variables. The result showed that single basal diameter, height or crown area had good explanatory power for both species-specific and multispecies (p<0.001). The best-fit models included only basal diameter in sapling and tree-like shrubs, and combinations of crown area, height, and basal diameter in typical shrubs. The logarithmic model was most desired among the 4 model forms of linear, quadratic, multiple linear and logarithmic, for species-specific and multispecies. The models we developed should help the estimation of forest ecosystem carbon stocks, especially for belowground component, and provide tools for quantification of individual species biomass of understory plants.', u'/manuscript/201611.0140/v1', [u'Forestry'], [u'Key Laboratory for Forest Resources & Ecosystem Processes, Beijing Forestry University,  Beijing 100083, China', u'Forestry College, Beihua University, Jilin 130013, China']]
[u'Review of Computational Methods on Brain Symmetric and Asymmetric Analysis from Neuroimaging Techniques', ['P. Kalavathi', 'K. Senthamilselvi', 'V. B. Surya Prasath'], u'November 28 2016', u"Brain is the most complex organ in the human body and it is divided into two hemispheres - left and right hemispheres. Left hemisphere is responsible for control of right side of our body whereas right hemisphere is responsible for control of left side of our body. Brain image segmentation from different neuroimaging modalities is one of the important parts in clinical diagnostic tools. Neuroimaging based digital imagery generally contain noise, inhomogeneity, aliasing artifacts, and orientational deviations. Therefore, accurate segmentation of brain images is a very difficult task. However, the development of accurate segmentation of brain images is very important and crucial for a correct diagnosis of any brain related diseases. One of the fundamental segmentation tasks is to identify and segment inter-hemispheric fissure/mid-sagittal plane, which separate the two hemispheres of the brain. Moreover, the symmetric/asymmetric analyses of left and right hemispheres of brain structures are important for radiologists to analyze diseases such as Alzheimer's, Autism, Schizophrenia, Lesions and Epilepsy. Therefore, in this paper we have analyzed the existing computational techniques used to find brain symmetric/asymmetric analysis in various neuroimaging techniques (MRI/CT/PET/SPECT), which are utilized for detecting various brain related disorders.", u'/manuscript/201611.0138/v1', [u'Clinical Neurology'], [u'Department of Computer Science and Applications, Gandhigram Rural Institute, Deemed University, Gandhigram 624 302, Tamil Nadu, India', u'Computational Imaging and VisAnalysis (CIVA) Lab, Department of Computer Science, University of Missouri-Columbia, Columbia, MO 65211, USA']]
[u'Environmental Tipping Points for Sperm Motility, Fertilization, and Embryonic Development in the Crown-of-Thorns Starfish, Acanthaster cf. solaris', ['Ciemon Frank Caballes', 'Morgan S. Pratchett', 'Maia L. Raymundo', 'Jairo A. Rivera-Posada'], u'December 1 2016', u'For broadcast spawning invertebrates such as the crown-of-thorns starfish, early life history stages (from spawning to settlement) may be exposed to a wide range of environmental conditions, and could have a major bearing on reproductive success and population replenishment. Arrested development in response to multiple environmental stressors at the earliest stages can be used to define lower and upper limits for normal development. Here, we compared sperm swimming speeds and proportion of motile sperm and rates of fertilization and early development under a range of environmental variables (temperature: 20-36\xb0C, salinity: 20-34 psu, and pH: 7.6-8.2) to identify environmental tipping points and thresholds for reproductive success. We also tested the effects of water-soluble compounds derived from eggs on sperm activity. Our results demonstrate that gametes, fertilization, and early development are robust to a wide range of temperature, salinity, and pH levels that are outside the range found at the geographical limits of adult distribution and can tolerate environmental conditions that exceed expected anomalies as a result of climate change. Water-soluble compounds associated with eggs also enhance sperm activity, particularly in environmental conditions where sperm motility is initially limited. These findings suggest that fertilization and embryonic development of crown-of-thorns starfish are tolerant to a wide range of environmental conditions, though environmental constraints on recruitment success may occur at later ontogenic stages.', u'/manuscript/201612.0010/v1', [u'Animal Sciences & Zoology'], [u'ARC Centre of Excellence for Coral Reef Studies, James Cook University, Townsville, QLD 4811, Australia', u'School of Biological Sciences, University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD 4072, Australia', u'Academic Environmental Corporation, Universidad de Antioquia, Medell\xedn, Antioquia, Colombia']]
[u'Immunization with E Plus NS1-2a Enhanced Protection against Dengue Virus Serotype 2 in Mice', ['Yanhua Wu', 'Shuyu Fang', 'Xiaoyun Cui', 'Na Gao', 'Dongying Fan', 'Jing An'], u'December 1 2016', u'Dengue virus (DENV), the causative agent of dengue fever (DF), is one of the most important mosquito-borne viruses that can infect humans. Although much effort has been made on prevention and control of dengue, there are currently no anti-viral drugs or worldwide approved vaccines yet. In this study, we immunized six-week-old Balb/c mice with DNA vaccine candidates E and NS1-2a of DENV serotype 2 or the combination of them (E+NS1-2a) via an electroporation (EP)-assisted intramuscular gene delivery system and evaluated the immune response and protection. The highest specific antibody titres and cytokine levels secreted by splenocytes as well as the highest survival rate were observed in the E+NS1-2a group, followed by E group and NS1-2a group. Our data suggested that the combination of E and NS1-2a delivered by EP may be a superior preventive strategy against DENV.', u'/manuscript/201612.0006/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], [u'Department of Microbiology, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Capital Medical University, Beijing, 100069, China']]
[u'A Basin-Scale Estimation of Carbon Stocks of a Forest Ecosystem Characterized by Spatial Distribution and Contributive Features in the Liuxihe River Basin of Pearl River Delta', ['Chao Zhang', 'Beicheng Xia', 'Junyu Lin'], u'December 3 2016', u'Forest ecosystems make a greater contribution to carbon (C) stocks than any other terrestrial ecosystem. To understand the role of regional forest ecosystems in global climate change and carbon exchange, forest C stock and its spatial distribution within the small (2,300 km2) Liuxihe River basin were analyzed to determine the different contributors to the C stock. Forest C stocks were quantified by measuring the biomass of trees, understory vegetation, litter and roots, as well as soil organic C, using data from field samples and laboratory experiments. The results showed that forests stored 38.04 Tg C in the entire basin, with secondary and planted forests accounting for 89.82% and 10.18%, respectively, of the stored C. Five types of forests, a subtropical evergreen broad-leaved forest, a subtropical coniferous and broad-leaved mixed forest, a subtropical coniferous forest, a timber forest, and a non-wood forest, stored 257.55 \xb1 15.01, 218.92 \xb1 9.59, 195.24 \xb1 18.29, 177.42 \xb1 17.55, and 117.86 \xb1 6.04 Mg C ha\u22121, respectively. In the forest ecosystem C stocks of the basin, soils averagely contribute about 73.78%, not including root underground biomass. It provides a comprehensive method for forest ecosystem carbon investigation and forest management in small basin scale.', u'/manuscript/201612.0020/v1', [u'Forestry'], [u'School of Environmental Science and Engineering, Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou 510275, China']]
[u'Robots to the Rescue: A Review of Studies on Differential Medical Diagnosis Employing Ontology-Based Chat Bot Technology', ['Bosede Iyiade Edwards', 'Idris Oladele Muniru', 'Adrian David Cheok'], u'December 6 2016', u'Access to medical care is a global issue. Technology-aided approaches have been applied in addressing this. Interventions have however not focused on medical diagnosis as a fully automated procedure and available applications employ mainly text-based inputs rather than conversation in natural language. We explored the utility of ontology-based chatbot technology for the design of intelligent agents for medical diagnosis through a systematic review of the most recent related literature. English articles published in 2011-2016 returned 233 hits which yielded 11 relevant articles after a 3-stage screening. Findings showed that the creation of expert systems had been the focus of many the studies which utilize the physician-system-patient framework with system training based mostly on expert knowledge for designing web- or mobile phone-based applications that serve assistive purposes. Findings further indicated gaps in the design and evaluation of more effective systems deployable as standalone applications, for example, on an embodied robotic system. The need for technology supporting the physical examination part of diagnosis, connection to data sources on patients\u2019 vitals and medical history are also indicated in addition to the need for more qualitative work on natural language-based interaction. The system should be one that is continuously learning. Future works should also be directed towards the building of more robust knowledge base as well as evaluation of theory-based diagnostic methodological options', u'/manuscript/201612.0027/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], [u'Imagineering Institute (IDM Lab), 4, Lebuh Medini Utara, Nusajaya 79200, Malaysia', u'Universiti Teknologi Malaysia, Skudai, 81310, Johor, Malaysia', u'University of London, London WC1E 7HU, UK']]
[u'Influence of Gender on CMV Seropositivity in Non-A To G Hepatitis Virus Patients', ['Rand Farag', 'Dujana Alayobi', 'Hye-Joo Kwon', 'Afaf Elansary'], u'December 5 2016', u'Background Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is a major pathogen that cause remarkable rate of morbidity and mortality, especially in immunocompromised patients. It is important to find risk factors associated with CMV viremia. We studied the differences in CMV seropositivity in relation to liver function biomarkers in male and female Saudi population in an attempt to understand the variation in the CMV seroprevalence with sex and find the risk factor to develop liver dysfunction or hepatocellular carcinoma. Material and subjects: The CMV- IgG and IgM were screened in serum samples of 150 non- A-G hepatities patients with elevation of liver profiles (ALT, AST, ALP and GGT) and categorized as males and females. Samples were collected from different general hospitals and polyclinic in KSA from March 2014 to June 2015. A correlation between CMV seropositivity measured with both antibodies and liver enzymes were tested. Receiver operating characteristics (ROC) analysis and multiple regressions were done for the obtained data. Results: Our study shows that females had much higher IgG and IgM compared to age-matching males. A significant correlation between both antibodies and liver enzymes (AST, ALT) was recorded. Less significant correlation of both IgG and IgM with GGT was also observed. Receiver operating characteristics (ROC) analysis revealed that both IgG and IgM can be used as excellent predictive markers for CMV infection as both recorded 100% specificity and sensitivity together with area under the curve of 1 in males and females. Multiple regression analysis ascertain the correlation between both antibodies as dependent variables and liver enzymes as independent variables with ALT being the most affected enzyme with CMV seropositivity especially in females. Conclusion:he data discussed above This study shows that CMV is capable of initiating and accelerating liver dysfunction in both sexes. The high seroprevalence in females at reproductive age is especially important as they can transmit the virus to their developing fetus. Prevention of CMV infection in young girls 11-14 years old, through counseling on hygiene or possible future vaccination, may lead to a decrease of congenital CMV infections with the concomitant risk of developing liver dysfunction or hepatocellular carcinoma. Keywords: Cytomegalovirus, Alanine transaminase, Aspartate transaminase Alkaline phosphatase, \u03b3-Glutamyltranspeptidase, liver function.', u'/manuscript/201612.0026/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], [u'Assistant Prof of Virology and molecular microbiology, Health science Researches central, Princes Nora University (PNU), Kingdom Saudi Arabia (KSA)', u'Prof of Genetic, Biology department, Princes Nora University (PNU), Kingdom Saudi Arabia (KSA)', u'Assistant Prof of molecular biology, Biology department, Princes Nora University (PNU), Kingdom Saudi Arabia (KSA)', u'Prof Biochemistry, Central Labe, King Saud University (KSU)']]
[u'Application of Taxonomic Modeling to Microbiota Data Mining for Detection of Helminth Infection in Global Populations', ['Mahbaneh Eshaghzadeh Torbati', 'Makedonka Mitreva', 'Vanathi Gopalakrishnan'], u'December 6 2016', u'Human microbiome data from genomic sequencing technologies is fast accumulating, giving us insights into bacterial taxa that contribute to health and disease. Predictive modeling of such microbiota count data for classification of human infection from parasitic worms such as helminths can help in detection and management across global populations. Real-world datasets of microbiome experiments are typically sparse containing hundreds of measurements for bacterial species, of which only a few are detected in the bio-specimens that are analyzed. This feature of microbiome data produces the challenge of needing more observations for accurate predictive modeling and has been dealt with previously using different methods of feature reduction. To our knowledge, integrative methods such as transfer learning has not been explored in the microbiome domain yet, as a way to deal with data sparsity by incorporating knowledge of different but related datasets. One way of incorporating this knowledge is by using a meaningful mapping among features of these datasets. In this paper, we claim that this mapping would exist among members of each individual cluster grouped based on phylogenetic dependency among taxa and their association to the phenotype. We validate our claim by showing that models incorporating associations in such a grouped feature space result in no performance deterioration for the given classification task. In this paper, we test our hypothesis using classification models that detect helminth infection in microbiota of human fecal samples obtained from Indonesia and Liberia countries. In our experiments, we first learn binary classifiers for helminth infection detection by using Naive Bayes, Support Vector Machines, Multilayer Perceptrons, and Random Forest methods. In the next step, we add taxonomic modeling using the SMART-scan module to group the data, and learn classifiers using the same four methods, to test the validity of the achieved groupings. We observed a 6% to 23% and 7% to 26% performance improvement based on the Area Under ROC Curve (AUC) and Balanced Accuracy(Bacc) measures, respectively, over 10 runs of 10-fold cross-validation. These results show that using phylogenetic dependency for grouping our microbiota data actually results in a noticeable improvement in classification performance for helminth infection detection. These promising results from this feasibility study demonstrate that methods such as SMART-scan can be utilized in the future for knowledge transfer from different but related microbiome datasets by phylogenetically-related functional mapping, to enable novel integrative biomarker discovery.', u'/manuscript/201612.0031/v1', [u'Other'], [u'Department of Computer Science, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15260, USA', u'Department of Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63110, USA', u'Department of Biomedical Informatics, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15260, USA']]
[u'Anti-inflammatory Activity of Sanghuangporus sanghuang Mycelium', ['Wang-Ching Lin', 'Jeng-Shyan Deng', 'Shyh-Shyun Huang', 'Sheng-Hua Wu', 'Chin-Chu Chen', 'Wan-Rong Lin', 'Hui-Yi Lin', 'Guan-Jhong Huang'], u'December 7 2016', u'Acute lung injury (ALI) is characterized by inflammation of the lung tissue and oxidative injury caused by excessive accumulation of reactive oxygen species. Studies have suggested that anti-inflammatory or antioxidant agents could be used for the treatment of ALI with a good outcome. Therefore, our study aimed to test whether the mycelium extract of Sanghuangporus sanghuang (SS-1), believed to exhibit antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, could be used against the excessive inflammatory response associated with LPS-induced ALI in mice and to investigate its possible mechanism of action. The experimental results showed that the administration of SS-1 could inhibit LPS-induced inflammation. SS-1 could reduce the number of inflammatory cells, inhibit MPO activity, regulate the TLR4/PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway and the signal transduction of NF-\u03baB and MAPK pathways in the lung tissue, and inhibit HNGB1 activity in BALF. In addition, SS-1 could affect the synthesis of antioxidant enzymes HO-1 and Trx-1 in the lung tissue and regulate signal transduction in the KAP1/Nrf2/Keap1 pathway. Histological results showed that administration of SS-1 prior to induction could inhibit the large-scale LPS-induced neutrophil infiltration of the lung tissue. Therefore, based on all experimental results, we propose that SS-1 exhibits a protective effect against LPS-induced (ALI) in mice. The mycelium of S. sanghuang can potentially be used for the treatment or prevention of inflammation-related diseases', u'/manuscript/201612.0042/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], [u'School of Pharmacy, China Medical University, Taichung 404, Taiwan', u'Department of Health and Nutrition Biotechnology, Asia University, Taichung 413, Taiwan', u'Department of Biology, National Museum of Natural Science, Taichung 404, Taiwan', u'Grape King Biotechnology Center, Chung-Li City 320, Taiwan', u'Department of Chinese Pharmaceutical Sciences and Chinese Medicine Resources, College of Pharmacy, China Medical University, Taichung 404, Taiwan']]
[u'Potential Enhanced Survivorship of Crown of Thorns Starfish Larvae due to Near-Annual Nutrient Enrichment during Secondary Outbreaks on the Central Mid-Shelf of the Great Barrier Reef, Australia', ['Jon Brodie', 'Michelle Devlin', 'Stephen Lewis'], u'December 7 2016', u'The Great Barrier Reef (GBR) is currently experiencing widespread crown of thorns starfish (CoTS) outbreaks as part of the fourth wave of outbreaks since 1962. It is believed that outbreaks have become more frequent on the GBR and elsewhere in the Indo-Pacific associated with anthropogenic causes. The two widely accepted potential causes are (1) anthropogenic nutrient enrichment leading to increased biomass of phytoplankton, the food of the planktonic stage of larval CoTS; and (2) overfishing of predators on the juvenile to adult stages of CoTS, for example, commercial fished species such as coral trout. In this study, we show the evidence for the nutrient enrichment causation hypothesis is strong based on a large number of recent studies in the GBR. We also hypothesise that secondary outbreaks in the region between Cairns and Townsville can also be enhanced by nutrient enriched conditions associated with the annual nutrient discharge from Wet Tropics rivers.', u'/manuscript/201612.0041/v1', [u'Other'], [u'ARC Centre of Excellence for Coral Reef Studies, James Cook University, Townsville QLD 4811, Australia', u'Coasts, Climate, Oceans Consulting (C2O), Townsville QLD 4810, Australia', u'The Centre for Environment, Fisheries and Aquaculture Science (Cefas), Lowestoft NR33 0HT, UK', u'TropWATER, James Cook University, Townsville QLD 4811, Australia']]
[u'Characterization of a Novel Lethal Dermonecrotic Recombinant Phospholipase D from the Venom of Iranian Scorpion, Hemiscorpius lepturus Reference to Homology with American Brown Spiders', ['Elham Torabi', 'Vahid Khalaj', 'Mahdi Behdani', 'Mohammad Hosseininejad Chafi', 'Reza Moazzami', 'Jean-Marc Sabatier', 'Delavar Shahbazzadeh', 'Kamran Pooshang Bagheri'], u'December 9 2016', u'Hemiscorpius lepturus scorpion stings are associated with local and systemic disorders may be led to death. The clinical signs of H. lepturus envenomation are amazingly the same as those reported for brown spiders. The main cause of brown spider\u2019s lethality and toxicity has been attributed to its phospholipase D activity. Accordingly this study was aimed to find a phospholipase D that would be responsible for lethality and dermonecrotic activity. In this study, a cDNA library of the venom glands was generated by Illumina RNA sequencing. H. lepturus PLD was characterized reference to its significant homology with Phospholipase D (PLD) from brown spiders. The accuracy of the obtained sequence was approved by RT-PCR and sequencing. The main chain designated Hl-RecPLD1 (as the first isoform of H. lepturus PLD) was cloned, expressed, and purified. Sphingomyelinase, dermonecrotic, and lethal activities were estimated. A remarkable sequence and structural homology were seen with PLDs of brown spiders. The conformation was determined as a TIM beta/alpha-barrel. The LD50 and dermonecrotic activity of Hl-RecPLD1 were determined as 3\xb5g/mouse and 0.7cm2 respectively. Interestingly, this study is the first report indicating similar molecular evolutionary mechanism happened in American brown spiders and Iranian scorpion. According to our results, Hl-RecPLD1 is a highly active phospholipase D that would be served as a novel lethal dermonecrotic toxin in H. lepturus venom.', u'/manuscript/201612.0051/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], [u'Venom and Biotherapeutics Molecules Lab., Medical Biotechnology Department, Biotechnology Research Center, Pasteur Institute of Iran, Tehran, Iran', u'Medical Biotechnology Department, Biotechnology Research Center, Pasteur Institute of Iran, Tehran, Iran', u'INSERM UMRs 1097, Aix-Marseille Universit\xe9, Parc Scientifique et Technologique de Luminy, Marseille, France']]
[u'A Review on Phytochemistry and Pharmacology of Cortex Periplocae', ['Yang Li', 'Jin Li', 'Kun Zhou', 'Jun He', 'Jun Cao', 'Ming-Rui An', 'Yan-Xu Chang'], u'December 8 2016', u'Cortex Periplocae, as a traditional Chinese herbal medicine, has been widely used for autoimmune diseases, especially rheumatoid arthritis. Due to its potential pharmaceutical values, more studies about the biological activities of Cortex Periplocae have been conducted recently. Meanwhile, the adverse reaction of Cortex Periplocae is not a negligible problem in clinic. In this article, we reviewed a series of articles and summarized the recent studies of Cortex Periplocae in the areas of phytochemistry and pharmacology. More than 100 constituents have been isolated and identified from Cortex Periplocae, including steroids, cardiac glycosides, terpenoids, and fatty acid compounds. The crude extracts of Cortex Periplocae and its active compounds exhibit various biological activities, such as cardiotonic effect, anticancer action, and anti-inflammatory effect. This paper aims to provide an overall review on the bioactive ingredients, pharmacological effect, and toxicity of this plant. Furthermore, this review suggests investigating and developing new clinical usages according to the above pharmacological effects.', u'/manuscript/201612.0048/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], [u'Tianjin State Key Laboratory of Modern Chinese Medicine, Tianjin University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin 300193, China', u'Tianjin Key Laboratory of Phytochemistry and Pharmaceutical Analysis, Tianjin University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin 300193, China', u'College of Material Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Hangzhou Normal University,  Hangzhou 310036, China', u'Department of Surgery, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109, USA']]
[u'In Vitro and in Vivo Antiplasmodial Activity of Extracts from Polyalthia suaveolens, Uvaria angolensis and Monodora tenuifolia (Annonaceae)', ['Alvine N. Mfopa', 'Lauve R. Y. Tchokouaha', 'Cedric D.J. Mbouna', 'Marthe A. T. Tchuente', 'Rufin M. T. Kouipou', 'Patrick V. T. Fokou', 'Eugenie A. M. Kemgne', 'Raceline G. Kamkumo', 'Fabrice F. Boyom'], u'December 8 2016', u'The present study aimed at investigating the in vitro and in vivo susceptibility of malaria parasites to crude extracts and fractions from Polyalthia suaveolens, Uvaria angolensis, and Monodora tenuifolia. The ethanolic extracts were prepared by maceration, and were further partitioned using water, dichloromethane, hexane, and methanol. The most promising fraction was subjected to column chromatography and the sub-fractions tested for activity in vitro. The antiplasmodial effect of extracts and fractions was tested against the Chloroquine resistant (PfK1) strain in 96 wells microtiter plate format using SYBR green florescence assay. The promising fraction was further assessed for cytotoxicity and acute toxicity in Swiss albino mice and subsequently against the rodent malaria parasite, P. berghei. Qualitative phytochemical screening was also performed on the promising fraction. The methanol fractions exerted the overall better effect with that of the twigs of P. suaveolens (PStw(Ace)) showing the highest potency with a IC50 value of 3.24 \xb5g/mL followed by the fractions of leaf of M. tenuifolia (MoTel(Ace), IC50= 3.84 \xb5g/ml) and stem bark of P. suaveolens (IC50= 4.90 \xb5g/ml). The phytochemical screening showed the presence of alkaloids, lactones, and phenols in the more active fraction of P. suaveolens (PStw(Ace)). The chromatographic fractionation of this fraction led to 12 sub-fractions with PS8 sub-fraction being the most active (IC50= 4.42 \xb5g/mL). In vivo, oral administration of 2000 mg/kg b.w of fraction PStw(Ace) in mice showed no signs of toxicity. Also, fraction PStw(Ace) at 400 mg/kg b.w exerted the highest suppressive effect against P. berghei strain B throughout the 4 days experiment (% parasitaemia below 5.2%). Overall, the results achieved supported the use of the three plants in the traditional treatment of malaria in Cameroon. More interestingly, the methanolic fraction of the twigs extract from P. suaveolens might be of interest in future development of an antimalarial phytodrug.', u'/manuscript/201612.0044/v1', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'Antimicrobial & Biocontrol Agents Unit (AmBcAU), Laboratory for Phytobiochemistry and Medicinal Plants Studies, Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Science, University of Yaound\xe9 I, P.O. Box: 812, Yaound\xe9, Cameroon', u'Noguchi Memorial Institute for Medical Research (NMIMR), P.O. Box LG 581. Legon, Accra, Ghana', u'Institute of Medical Research and Medicinal Plants Studies (IMPM), P.O. Box 6163, Yaounde, Cameroon', u'Laboratory of Natural Products and Organic Synthesis, Department of Organic Chemistry, Faculty of Science, University of Yaound\xe9 I, P.O. Box: 812, Yaound\xe9, Cameroon', u'Laboratory of Animal Physiology, Faculty of Science, University of Yaound\xe9 I, P.O. Box: 812, Yaound\xe9, Cameroon']]
[u'Conducting Wine Symphonics with the Aid of Yeast Genomics', ['Isak Pretorius'], u'December 10 2016', u'A perfectly balanced wine can be said to create a symphony in the mouth. To achieve the sublime, both in wine and music, requires imagination and skilled orchestration of artistic craftmanship. For wine, inventiveness starts in the vineyard. Similar to a composer of music, the grapegrower produces grapes through a multitude of specifications to achieve a quality result. Different Vitis vinifera grape varieties allow the creation of wine of different genres. Akin to a conductor of music, the winemaker decides what genre to create and considers resources required to realise the grape\u2019s potential. A primary consideration is the yeast: inoculate the grape juice or leave it \u2018wild\u2019; which specific or combined Saccharomyces strain(s) should be used; or proceed with a non-Saccharomyces species? Whilst the various Saccharomyces and non-Saccharomyces yeasts perform their role during fermentation, the performance is not over until the \u2018fat lady\u2019 (S. cerevisiae) has sung (i.e. the grape sugar has been fermented to specified dryness and alcoholic fermentation is complete). Is the wine harmonious or discordant? Will the consumer demand an encore and make a repeat purchase? Understanding consumer needs lets winemakers orchestrate different symphonies (i.e. wine styles) using single- or multi-species ferments. Some consumers will choose the sounds of a philharmonic orchestra comprising a great range of diverse instrumentalists (as is the case with wine created from spontaneous fermentation); some will prefer to listen to a smaller ensemble (analogous to wine produced by a selected group of non-Saccharomyces and Saccharomyces yeast); and others will favour the well-known and reliable superstar soprano (i.e. S. cerevisiae). But what if a digital music synthesiser \u2012 such as a synthetic yeast\xa0\u2012 becomes available that can produce any music genre with the purest of sounds by the touch of a few buttons? Will synthesisers spoil the character of the music and lead to the loss of the much-lauded romantic mystique? Or will music synthesisers support composers and conductors to create novel compositions and even higher quality performances that will thrill audiences? This article explores these and other relevant questions in the context of winemaking and the role that yeast and its genomics play in the betterment of wine quality.', u'/manuscript/201612.0061/v1', [u'Agricultural Sciences & Agronomy'], [u'Chancellery, Macquarie University, Sydney NSW 2109, Australia']]
[u'The Effects of Load on Transmural Differences in Contraction of Isolated Mouse Ventricular Cardiomyocytes', ['Anastasia Khokhlova', 'Gentaro Iribe', 'Leonid Katsnelson', 'Keiji Naruse', 'Olga Solovyova'], u'December 13 2016', u'Mechanical properties of cardiomyocytes from different transmural regions are heterogeneous in the left ventricular wall. The cardiomyocyte mechanical environment affects this heterogeneity because of mechano-electric feedback mechanisms. In the present study, we investigated the effects of load upon transmural differences in contraction of subendocardial (ENDO) and subepicardial (EPI) single cells isolated from the murine left ventricle. Various loads were applied to the cells using carbon fiber techniques for single myocytes. To simulate experimentally obtained results and to predict mechanisms underlying the cellular response to change in load, our mathematical models of the ENDO and EPI cells were used. Extent of the transmural gradient in the time course of contractions was independent of the loading conditions where unloaded and heavy loaded (isometric) contractions were examined, but the regional gradient of the relaxation time characteristics tended to decrease when the load decreased. Under auxotonic contractions, time to peak contraction (Tmax) was significantly longer in ENDO cells than in EPI cells at low preload. An increase in preload (axial stretch) prolonged Tmax in both cell types; however, the prolongation was greater in EPI cells, resulting in a decrease in transmural gradient in Tmax at high preload. The [Ca2+]i transient decay time constant was consistent with the greater preload dependency in Tmax of EPI cells. Our modified mathematical models reproduced experimental results, suggesting that differences in cooperativity of cross bridges and calcium troponin C complex interactions between the ENDO and EPI cardiomyocytes may contribute to the different cellular responses to stretch, which may provide a decrease in transmural dispersion of cellular shortening in the intact heart.', u'/manuscript/201612.0066/v1', [u'Cardiology'], []]
[u'Overexpression of AmRosea1 Gene Confers Drought and Salt Tolerance in Rice', ['Mingzhu Dou', 'Sanhong Fan', 'Suxin Yang', 'Rongfeng Huang', 'Huiyun Yu', 'Xianzhong Feng'], u'December 14 2016', u'Ectopic expression of the MYB transcription factor of AmROSEA1 from Antirrhinum majus has been reported to change anthocyanin and other metabolites in several species. In this study, we found that overexpression of AmRosea1 significantly improved the tolerance of transgenic rice to drought and salinity stress. Transcriptome analysis revealed that a considerable amount of stress-related genes were affected by exogenous AmRosea1 during both drought and salinity stress treatments. These affected genes are involved in stress signal transduction, the hormone signal pathway, ion homeostasis and the enzymes that remove peroxides. This work suggests that the AmRosea1 gene is a potential candidate for genetic engineering of crops.', u'/manuscript/201612.0074/v1', [u'Plant Sciences'], []]
[u'The Quest for a Vaccine against Coccidioidomycosis, A Neglected Disease of the Americas', ['Theo N. Kirkland'], u'December 15 2016', u'Coccidioidomycosis (Valley Fever) is a disease caused by inhalation of Coccidioides spp. This neglected tropical disease of the Americas has substantial public health impact despite its geographic restriction to desert areas of the southwestern U.S., Mexico, Central and South America. The incidence of this infection in California and Arizona has been increasing over the past fifteen years. The burden of disease in outside the U.S. remains poorly understood. Several large cities are within the endemic region in the U.S. Coccidioidomycosis accounts for 25,000 hospital admissions per year in California. While most cases of coccidioidomycosis resolve spontaneously, up to 40% are severe enough to require anti-fungal treatment, and a significant number disseminate beyond the lungs. Disseminated infection, especially involving the meninges, is fatal without appropriate treatment. Infection with Coccidioides spp. is protective against a second infection, so vaccination seems biologically plausible. This review of efforts to develop a vaccine against coccidioidomycosis focuses on vaccine approaches and the difficulties in identifying protein antigen/adjuvant combinations that protect in experimental mouse models. Although the quest for a vaccine has not yet resulted in a clinically useful product, scientific efforts of vaccine development pave the way for future success.', u'/manuscript/201612.0076/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], []]
[u'Absence of RstA Results in Delayed Initiation of DNA Replication in Escherichia coli', ['Yuan Yao', 'Runxiu Zhu'], u'December 15 2016', u'Bacterial two-component systems are responsible for both sensing and initiating a response to a wide range of environmental changes. RstB/RstA is an uncharacterized Escherichia coli two-component system, the regulatory effects of which on the E. coli cell cycle remain unclear. We found that while the doubling time and average number of replication origins per cell in an \u0394rstB mutant were the same as the wild-type, the average number of replication origins in an \u0394rstA mutant was 18.2% lower than in wild-type cells. The doubling times were 34 min, 35 min, and 40 min for the wild-type, \u0394rstB, and \u0394rstA strains, respectively. Ectopic expression of RstA from plasmid pACYC-rstA partly reversed the \u0394rstA mutant phenotypes. The amount of initiator protein DnaA per cell was reduced by 40% in the \u0394rstA mutant compared with the wild-type, but the concentration of DnaA did not change as the total amount of cellular protein was also reduced in these cells. Our results suggest that deletion of RstA leads to delayed initiation of DNA replication, and that RstA may indirectly affect initiation of replication by controlling expression of dnaA.', u'/manuscript/201612.0080/v1', [u'Microbiology'], []]
[u'Selection of Prebiotic Molecules in Amphiphilic Environments', ['Christian Mayer', 'Ulrich Schreiber', 'Maria J. Davila'], u'December 16 2016', u'A basic problem in all postulated pathways of prebiotic chemistry is the low concentration which generally is expected for interesting reactants in fluid environments. Even though compounds like nucleobases, sugars or peptides principally may form spontaneously under environmental conditions, they will always be rapidly diluted in an aqueous environment. In addition, any such reaction leads to side products which often exceed the desired compound and generally hamper the first steps of a subsequent molecular evolution. Therefore, a mechanism of selection and accumulation of relevant prebiotic compounds seems to be crucial for molecular evolution. A very efficient environment for selection and accumulation can be found in the fluid continuum circulating in tectonic fault zones. Vesicles which form spontaneously at a depth of approximately 1 km present a selective trap for amphiphilic molecules, especially for peptides composed of hydrophilic and hydrophobic amino acids in a suitable sequence. The accumulation effect is shown in a numeric simulation on a simplified model. Further, possible mechanisms of a molecular evolution in vesicle membranes are discussed. Altogether, the proposed scenario can be seen as an ideal environment for constant, undisturbed molecular evolution in and on cell-like compartments, the latter offering preferential starting conditions for a subsequent RNA world.', u'/manuscript/201612.0089/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Estimating Density and Temperature Dependence of Juvenile Vital Rates Using a Hidden Markov Model', ['Robert M. McElderry'], u'December 18 2016', u'Organisms in the wild have cryptic life stages that are sensitive to changing environmental conditions and can be difficult to survey. In this study, I used mark-recapture methods to repeatedly survey Anaea aidea (Nymphalidae) caterpillars in nature, then modeled caterpillar demography as a hidden Markov process to assess if temporal variability in temperature and density influence the survival and growth of A. aidea over time. Individual encounter histories result from the joint likelihood of being alive and observed in a particular stage, and I included hidden states by separating demography and observations into parallel and independent processes. I constructed a demographic matrix containing the probabilities of all possible fates for each stage, including hidden states, e.g., eggs and pupae. I observed both dead and live caterpillars with high probability. Peak caterpillar abundance attracted multiple predators, and survival of fifth instars declined as per capita predation rate increased through spring. A time lag between predator and prey abundance was likely the cause of improved fifth instar survival estimated at high density. Growth rates showed an increase with temperature, but the most likely model did not include temperature. This work illustrates how state-space models can include unobservable stages and hidden state processes to evaluate how environmental factors influence vital rates of cryptic life stages in the wild.', u'/manuscript/201612.0092/v1', [u'Ecology'], []]
[u'Natural Pathogen Inhibiting Chemistry to Replace Toxic Treatment of Microbes and Biofilm in Cooling Towers \u2020', ['Lon Brouse', 'Richard Brouse', 'Daniel Brouse'], u'December 19 2016', u'Application of toxic antibacterial agents is considered necessary to control prevalent fresh water microorganisms in evaporative cooling water systems, but these agents can adversely affect the environment and human health. Alternatively, natural antibacterial water chemistry has been applied in industrial cooling water systems for over 10 years with excellent results. The tower water chemistry method concentrates natural salts in highly-softened water to produce elevated pH and dissolved solids, with low calcium and magnesium. This practice conserves water while generating only a small volume of non-toxic natural salt concentrate for cost efficient separation and disposal if required. This review presents a novel perspective of natural antimicrobial chemistry for inhibiting parasitic microbiome functional relationships within the bio-triad of Legionella outbreaks, "Trojan Protozoans" and biofilms. The review further examines practical application and function of polyvalent metal ions in the inhibition of biofilms. Reducing global dependence on toxic antibacterial agents discharged to the environment is an emerging concern due to their impact on the natural microbiome, plants, animals and humans. Discharge of antibacterial agents also contributes to development of pathogen resistance. Use of natural antibacterial chemistry can play a key role in managing the cooling water environment in a more ecologically sustainable manner.', u'/manuscript/201612.0097/v1', [u'Microbiology'], []]
[u'Toxicity and Biodegradability of Solvents: A Comparative Analysis', ['Asghar Sadeghi'], u'December 19 2016', u'Solvents are widely-used in all aspects of chemical sciences. One of the disadvantages of conventional solvents is attributed to the adverse impacts they pose on human health and ecological systems. Emerging class of solvents such as ionic liquids have been proposed to alleviate this problem. In this study, aquatic toxicity and biodegradability of two common industrial solvents are compared to those of two ionic liquids. Results from this study highlight the importance of solvent selection considering the information on the toxicity, biodegradability and fate and transport properties of selected solvents altogether.', u'/manuscript/201612.0101/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Bioactive Nutrients and Nutrigenomics in Age-Related Diseases', ['Tania Rescigno', 'Mario F. Tecce', 'Anna Capasso'], u'December 19 2016', u'The increase in the average lifespan and the consequent proportional growth of the elderly segment of society has furthered the interest in studying ageing processes. Ageing may be considered a multifactorial process derived from the interaction between genetic and environmental factors including lifestyle. There is ample evidence in many species that the maximum age attainable (maximum lifespan potential, MLSP) is genetically determined and several mitochondrial DNA polymorphisms are associated with longevity. Many studies have shown that most of the phenotypic characteristics observed in the aging process are the result of the occurrence, with age, of a low grade chronic pro-inflammatory status called "inflammaging", partially under genetic control. The term indicate that aging is accompanied by a low degree of chronic inflammatory, an up-regulation of inflammatory response and that inflammatory changes are common to many age-related diseases. Therefore, the theory of oxidation-inflammation was proposed as the main cause of aging. Accordingly, the chronic oxidative stress, that appears with age, affects all cells and especially those of the regulatory systems, such as the nervous, endocrine, and immune systems and the communication between them. This prevents an adequate homeostasis and, therefore, the preservation of health. It was also proposed that the immune system plays a key role in the aging process, specifically in the rate of aging, since there is a relationship between the redox state and functional capacity of immune cells and longevity of individuals. Moreover, the role of the immune system in senescence could be of universal application. A confirmation of the central role of the immune system in oxi-inflamm-aging is that the administrationintake? of adequate amounts of antioxidants in the diet improves immune function, decreases their oxidative stress, and consequently increases longevity. The promotion of healthy lifestyles is one of the major goals of governments and international agencies all over the world. Human molecular processes are influenced by both physiological pathways and exogenous factors which include, for instance, those originating from diet. Dietary intake has substantive effects on molecular processes of metabolic health. Nutrients can directly regulate physiological changes in human body. In fact, in addition to have an energetic and structural value, nutritional intake provides bioactive molecules which are selectively able to modulate specific metabolic pathways, noticeably affecting cardiovascular and neoplastic diseases development or progress. Numerous bioactive nutrients are being progressively identified and their chemopreventive effects are being described at clinical and molecular mechanism levels. Systematic analyses comprise all \u201comics\u201d technologies (such as transcriptomics, proteomics and metabolomics) and the goal is to investigate bioactive molecules effects derived from the diet. Nutrigenomic knowledge on physiologic status and disease risk will provide both developments of better diagnostic procedures and of new therapeutic strategies specifically targeted on nutritionally relevant processes. The present review was aimed to understand the molecular mechanisms underlying beneficial effects of bioactive nutrients and nutrigenomics on age-related diseases.', u'/manuscript/201612.0099/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], []]
[u'Adenovirus with DNA Packaging Gene Mutations Increased Virus Release', ['Stephen L. Wechman', 'Xiao-Mei Rao', 'Kelly M. McMasters', 'Heshan Sam Zhou'], u'December 19 2016', u'Adenoviruses (Ads) have been extensively manipulated for the development of cancer selective replication, leading to cancer cell death or oncolysis. Clinical studies using E1-modified oncolytic Ads have shown that this therapeutic platform was safe, but with limited efficacy, indicating the necessity of targeting other viral genes for manipulation. To improve the therapeutic efficacy of oncolytic Ads, we treated the entire Ad genome repeatedly with UV-light and have isolated AdUV which efficiently lyses cancer cells as reported previously [1]. In this report, we show that no mutations were observed in the early genes (E1 or E4) of AdUV while several mutations were observed within the Ad late genes which have structural or viral DNA packaging functions. This study also reported the increased release of AdUV from cancer cells. In this study, we found that AdUV inhibits tumor growth following intratumoral injection. These results indicate the potentially significant role of the viral late genes, in particular the DNA packaging genes, to enhance Ad oncolysis.', u'/manuscript/201612.0098/v1', [u'Oncology & Oncogenics'], []]
[u'Evidence for the Involvement of Toll-Like Receptor 4 (TLR4)-Mediated Apoptosis in Gynecological Cancers', ['Jinyoung Won', 'Youngjeon Lee', 'Kyu-Tae Chang', 'Yonggeun Hong'], u'December 20 2016', u'Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) is a member of the TLR family. Members of the TLR family play an important role in innate immune responses and are induced by recognition of pathogen-associated molecular patterns. They are also involved in cell proliferation and apoptosis in cancer. We investigated the role of TLR4 in apoptotic cell death in gynecological cancer cells; gynecological cancer is associated with infertility and spontaneous abortion. To examine the effect of TLR4 activation on apoptotic signaling in cancer cells, cultured primary cancer cells were treated with the TLR4 agonist lipopolysaccharide (LPS). The morphology of cancer cells was compared with normal myometrial cells. Enhanced growth rate and loss of contact inhibition with cellular overlap was observed in the cancer cells. The molecular mechanism analysis revealed differential expression of tumor suppressor genes in LPS-treated cancer cells. The expression of apoptosis-related caspase-3 was increased significantly in cancer cells with TLR4 activation after exposure to LPS. Taken together, these results suggest the pro-apoptotic activity of TLR4 as a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of gynecological cancers.', u'/manuscript/201612.0107/v1', [u'Oncology & Oncogenics'], []]
[u'Zebrafish as Toxicological Model for Screening and Recapitulate Human Diseases', ['Maria Virginia Caballero', 'Manila Candiracci'], u'December 20 2016', u'Embryonic and larval Danio rerio is increasingly used as a toxicological model to conduct rapid in vivo tests and developmental toxicity assays; the zebrafish features as high genetic homology to mammals; robust phenotypes; and its value in high-throughput genetic and chemical screening have made it a powerful tool to evaluate in vivo toxicity. New methodologies of genome editing as CRISPR/Cas9; ZFN or Talen make it a suitable model to perform studies to pair human genetic diseases as well. This review surveys recent studies; employing zebrafish as experimental model; comparing it with other in vivo and in vitro models; presenting zebrafish as a potent vertebrate tool to evaluate drug toxicity to facilitate more extensive; easy and comprehensive knowledge of new generation drugs.', u'/manuscript/201612.0103/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], []]
[u'Breast Cancer Brain Metastases: Clonal Evolution in Clinical Context', ['Jodi M. Saunus', 'Amy E. McCart Reed', 'Zhun Leong Lim', 'Sunil R. Lakhani'], u'December 22 2016', u'Brain metastases are highly evolved manifestations of breast cancer arising in a unique microenvironment, giving them exceptional adaptability in the face of new extrinsic pressures. The incidence is rising in line with population ageing, and use of newer therapies that stabilise metastatic disease burden with variable efficacy throughout the body. Historically, there has been a widely held view that brain metastases do not respond to circulating therapeutics because the blood-brain-barrier (BBB) restricts their uptake. However, emerging data are beginning to paint a far more complex picture where the brain acts as a sanctuary for dormant, subclinical proliferations that are initially protected by the BBB, but then exposed to dynamic selection pressures as tumours mature and vascular permeability increases. Here, we review key experimental approaches and landmark studies that have charted the genomic landscape of breast cancer brain metastases. These findings are contextualised with the factors impacting on clonal outgrowth in the brain: intrinsic breast tumour cell capabilities required for brain metastatic fitness, and the neural niche, which is initially hostile to invading cells but then engineered into a tumour-support vehicle by the successful minority. We also discuss how late detection, abnormal vascular perfusion and interstitial fluid dynamics underpin the recalcitrant clinical behaviour of brain metastases, and outline active clinical trials in the context of precision management.', u'/manuscript/201612.0113/v1', [u'Oncology & Oncogenics'], []]
[u'Antibacterial Activity of Ethanolic Extract of Cinnamon Bark and Honey and Their Combination Effects Against Acne Causing Bacteria', ['Elin Julianti', 'Kasturi K. Rajah', 'Irda Fidrianny'], u'December 23 2016', u'Propionibacterium acnes and Staphylococcus epidermidis are the major skin bacteria that cause the formation of acne. The present study was conducted to investigate antibacterial activity of ethanolic extract of cinnamon bark, honey and their combination against acne bacteria. The antibacterial activity of extract of cinnamon bark and honey were investigated against P. acnes and S. epidermidis using disc diffusion method. Minimum Inhibitory Concentration (MIC) and minimal bactericidal concentration (MBC) were performed using Clinical and Laboratory Standard Institute (CLSI) methods. The interaction combination between extract of cinnamon bark and honey was determined by using a checkerboards method. The results showed that he MIC of extract of cinnamon bark and honey against P. acne were 256 \xb5g/mL and 50% v/v, respectively, while against S. epidermidis were 1024 \xb5g/mL and 50% v/v, respectively. The MBC of extract of cinnamon against P. acnes and S. epidermidis were more than 2048 \xb5g/mL, whereas the MBC for honey against P. acnes and S. epidermidis were 100%. The combination of cinnamon bark extract and honey against against P. acnes and S. epidermidis, showed additive activity with the FICI value 0.625. Therefore, the combination of extract of cinnamon bark and honey has potential activity against acne causing bacteria.', u'/manuscript/201612.0121/v1', [u'Dermatology'], []]
[u'\u03b2-Glucans and Post Prandial Satiety: The Role of Intestinal Hormones in Healthy Volunteers', ['Sara Baldassano', 'Silvio Buscemi', 'Anna Aiello', 'Giulia Accardi', 'Calogero Caruso', 'Sonya Vasto'], u'December 23 2016', u'Recent interest in intestinal hormones has risen with the idea that they modulate glucose tolerance and food intake through a variety of mechanisms, and such hormones like peptide YY (PYY), ghrelin, glucagon-like peptide (GLP)-1 and 2, and cholecystokinin (CKK) are therefore excellent therapeutic candidates for the treatment of diabetes and obesity. Furthermore, in the recent years, multiple studies suggest that the microbiota is critically important for normal host functions, while impaired host microbiota interactions contribute to the pathogenesis of numerous common metabolic disorders. In this study, we considered the nutraceutical effects of \u03b2-glucans added to pasta at the concentration of 6g\\100g. Ten participants have been recruited and hematochemical analyses and intestinal hormones tests have been performed before and after 30 days of pasta intake. Stool specimens have been studied for Lactobacillus Fermentum, Lactobacillus acidophilus, Lactobacillus salivarius, Bifidobacterium longum, and Enterococcus faecium presence before and after 30 days of nutritional intervention. After 30 days of regular intake of pasta enriched by \u03b2-glucans results have been evaluated. In conclusion, pasta prepared from barley flour enriched with \u03b2-glucans at 6% exhibit promising responses on glucose metabolism, on intestinal hormones responses and on microbiota modification.', u'/manuscript/201612.0120/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'Food Additives and Contaminants: Effects on Human Gut Microbiota\u2014A Review', ['Paula Roca-Saavedra', 'Veronica Mendez-Vilabrille', 'Jose Manuel Miranda', 'Alexandre Lamas', 'Carolina Nebot', 'Alejandra Cardelle-Cobas', 'Carlos M. Franco', 'Alberto Cepeda'], u'December 23 2016', u'Gut bacteria play an important role in several metabolic processes and human diseases, such as obesity and its co-morbidities, like fatty liver disease, insulin resistance/diabetes and cardiovascular events. Among several factors, dietary patterns, probiotics, prebiotics, synbiotics, antimicrobials and non-dietary factors, such as stress, age, exercise and climatic conditions, can dramatically impact the human gut microbiota diversity and equilibrium. However, the effect of minor food constituents, including food additives and trace contaminants, on human gut microbiota has received less attention. Consequently, the present review aimed to provide an objective perspective of the current knowledge regarding the impacts of minor food constituents on human gut microbiota and consequently, on human health.', u'/manuscript/201612.0119/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'What Do We Know Now about IgE-Mediated Wheat Allergy in Children?', ['Grazyna Czaja-Bulsa', 'Micha Bulsa'], u'December 28 2016', u'IgE-mediated wheat allergy is a gluten-related disorder. Wheat is one of the five most common food allergens in children. However, the natural history of IgE-mediated wheat allergy has seldom been described in the research literature. This study presents the current state of knowledge about the IgE-mediated wheat allergy in children.', u'/manuscript/201612.0132/v1', [u'Allergology'], []]
[u'Can Amateur Football Help Players Meet the Requirements for a Healthy Lifestyle? A Case Study', ['Javier Fernandez-Rio', 'Alejandro Anton-Candanedo', 'Jorge Garcia-del Bosque'], u'December 29 2016', u'The main goal of the study was to obtain objective measures of the impact of a complete pre-season of amateur football on the players\u2019 physical activity parameters. 17 amateur football players (24.47 \xb1 4.53 years) enrolled in the same team agreed to participate. They were asked to wear one accelerometer on the right hip during each training practice. Moderate-to-Vigorous physical activity (MVPA), steps and metabolic-equivalent (METs), among other parameters, were obtained and analyzed. Results showed that players spent an average 54.86% of each training session in MVPA levels, for a total of 100.33 minutes every week (3 training sessions per week). Therefore, this group of amateur football players did not meet the requirements to obtain health benefits from their physical activity program: amateur football. This finding could be considered noteworthy because there are thousands of adults worldwide who play amateur football to maintain a healthy lifestyle. They should be aware that their weekly training load is not enough to help them meet the necessary requirements. They either need more practice time (90-minute sessions) or more sessions. The pre-season training program was rated as \u201csomewhat hard\u201d by the participants, and quadriceps and hamstrings were mentioned as the most exerted muscles', u'/manuscript/201612.0140/v1', [u'Sport Sciences & Therapy'], []]
[u'Structural Insights into Thermotoga maritima FtsH Periplasmic Domain on Substrate Recognition', ['Jun Yop An', 'Humayun Sharif', 'Gil Bu Kang', 'Kyung Jin Park', 'Jung-Gyu Lee', 'Sukyeong Lee', 'Mi Sun Jin', 'Ji-Joon Song', 'Jimin Wang', 'Soo Hyun Eom'], u'December 29 2016', u'Prompt removal of misfolded membrane proteins and misassembled membrane protein complexes is essential for membrane homeostasis. However, the elimination of these toxic proteins from the hydrophobic membrane environment has high energetic barriers. Transmembrane FtsH is the only known ATP-dependent protease responsible for this task, unlike other well-studied soluble ATP-dependent proteases. The mechanisms by which FtsH recognizes, unfolds, translocates, and proteolyzes its substrates remain unclear. Here, we report the crystal structures of the Thermotoga maritima FtsH periplasmic domain (PD) in an associative trimeric state at a 1.5-1.95 \xc5 resolution. We also describe the pH-dependent oligomerization states of the isolated PD using dynamic light scattering. These observations help us understand how FtsH recognizes membrane-anchored misfolded proteins.', u'/manuscript/201612.0145/v1', [u'Biochemistry'], []]
[u'Relationship between Aflatoxin B1 Exposure and Etiology of Liver Disease in Saudi Arabian Patients', ['Rand Farag', 'Dujana Alayobi', 'Khalid Alsaleh', 'Ehab Serour', 'Hye-Joo Kwon', 'Afaf El-ansary'], u'December 29 2016', u'Background: Exposure to chronic low levels of aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) contamination can lead to immune suppression and nutritional consequences that might greatly contributed in the increase of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The toxicity of AFB1 is greatly vary between different population, affected by age, gender, and environmental factors. Material and subjects: Aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) was measured in 50 blood samples collected from non B, C hepatitis viruses and non CMV-Ab liver disease patients from different general hospitals and polyclinic in KSA during period 01-2013 to 06-2014. All Patients demonstrate elevation of ALT and AST with unknown etiology. Serum samples were obtained and kept at \u221220 \xb0C for AFB1detection. Results: Out of the 50 blood samples, 38 demonstrate a detectable serum level of AFB1 while the remaining 12 patients were AFB1 negative and used as control participants. While AST was non-significantly different in AFB1 exposed patients, ALT was significantly higher in AFB1 positive samples compared to control AFB1-negative. AFB1 was positively correlated with AST and ALT as liver function enzymes and with age as a risk factor of long duration of AFB1 chronic exposure. Multiple linear regression analysis ascertained the association between AFB1 chronic exposure and ALT increase in liver dysfunction Saudi patients. Conclusion: Measurement of elevated ALT as marker of liver injury in AFB1 chronically exposed Saudi patients can help to avoid the future development of HCC. Moreover, early detection of AFB1 exposure, together with early vaccination against HBV and HCV can remove the synergistic effects of these two etiological factors and thus decrease the risk of developing liver cancer.', u'/manuscript/201612.0142/v1', [u'Microbiology'], []]
[u'High Biodiversity of Green Infrastructure Does Not Contribute to Recreational Ecosystem Services', ['Daria Sikorska', 'Piotr Sikorski', 'Richard J. Hopkins'], u'January 2 2017', u'Urban lakes, especially those of natural origin, provide numerous ecosystem services, recreation being one of the most important and highly valued by the city dwellers Fulfilling the need of city residents to relax and have contact with nature has become a priority in urbanized areas and has been proved to positively affect people\u2019s health and well-being. The recreational potential of water bodies was identified to be most important aspect of ecosystem services to the residents of the neighboring areas. Assessment of ecosystem services provisioning to society based on the real time spent by the citizens, in the rural-urban gradient allowed us to show how the economic benefits of lakes differ in urbanized, suburban and rural landscapes. Growth of cities has led to increased population density in the surroundings of ecologically valuable areas, resulting in higher pressure from visitors seeking recreational values. Along with urbanization, the impoverishment of ecosystem functions takes place limiting their capability to provide ecosystem services. In this work provisioning of ecosystem services of 28 floodplain lakes located in urban-rural gradient of Warsaw agglomeration was assessed. The relation between the ecological value of the water bodies, measured using naturalness indices, and the ecosystem services they can provide was assessed. The results showed that the floodplain lakes located along the urban-rural gradient are of a great importance to the citizens due to their recreational potential. However the provisioning of recreational ecosystem services is poorly connected with the ecological value of the floodplain lakes and the economic benefits are of a greatest importance in objects included in the urban green spaces.', u'/manuscript/201701.0009/v1', [u'Plant Sciences'], []]
[u'Expression and Potential Function of Plasma Exosomal microRNAs (miR-483-5p, miR-671-5p, and miR-150-3p) in a Mouse Mode and in Mesial Temporal Lobe Epilepsy Patients', ['Shaofeng Yan', 'Guiyang Liu', 'Wenyan Xie', 'Dawei Meng', 'Hua Zhang', 'Fangang Meng', 'Kai Zhang', 'Yin Jiang', 'Xin Zhang', 'Jianguo Zhang'], u'December 30 2016', u'Mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (mTLE) is one of the most common and refractory focal epilepsy syndromes. The molecular mechanisms of TLE are not completely understood. The aim of this study was to investigate the expression and potential function of plasma exosomal miRNAs (miR-483-5p, miR-671-5p, and miR-150-3p) in a mouse mode and in temporal lobe epilepsy patients. It was found that exosomal miRNAs were differentially expressed in three phases of the mouse mode, and exosomal miRNAs were down-regulated in mTLE patients compared with healthy controls. A bioinformatics analysis showed that target genes of exosomal miRNAs were significantly involved in the apoptotic process, cell adhesion, nervous system development, neurotrophin signaling pathway, PI3K-Akt signaling pathway, and metabolic pathways. The areas under the curve of miR-483-5p and miR-150-3p were 0.8714 (sensitivity = 75.00%, specificity = 91.65%) and 0.8213 (sensitivity = 67.50%, specificity = 90.00%), respectively. More importantly, the exosomal miRNAs were significantly associated with clinical parameters. Exosomal miRNAs may have the potential to become diagnostic and therapeutic biomarkers.', u'/manuscript/201612.0151/v1', [u'Anatomy & Morphology'], []]
[u'Synergistic Effect of Coadministration of Haemophilus influenzae and Neisseria meningitidis Vaccines on Immune Responses to Meningitis in Mouse Model', ['Randa H. Ali', 'Nourtan F. Abdeltawab', 'Osama A. Hady', 'Magdy A. Amin'], u'January 2 2017', u'Meningitis is a severe disease associated with death in children under five with highest rates of infections under age of one. Vaccines for Neisseria meningitides and Haemophilus influenza are used to prevent the main causative agents of meningitis. Administration of H. influenzae type b (Hib) vaccine is recommended at 2, 4 and 6 months with a booster dose at 18 months. N. meningitidis has two commercially available vaccines, the pure polysaccharide is recommended at 24 months meanwhile the protein-conjugated vaccines at 12 months. We sought in this study to examine if coadministering the vaccines for the two main meningitis causing bacteria might be synergistic as a preliminary step towards the possibility of shuffling immunization schedule. So, we coadministered Hib vaccine with commercially available vaccines either quadrate (ACWY) polysaccharide meningococcal (Men) or conjugated meningococcal (Nim) vaccines in Balb/C mice (n = 6/group) and compared to each vaccine administered separately and controls. Thirty-five days post immunization, we measured specific antibodies titers. Hib vaccine increased Men antibody titers significantly for serotypes Y and W. When Hib vaccine was coadministrated with Nim, antibody titer for Y, W and A significantly increased. For serotype C, there was no significant difference in antibody titers among immunized groups. As for effect of meningococcal vaccines on Hib, Men significantly increased Hib antibody titers while Nim had no effect. Collectively, our data suggested that coadministration of Hib and Men or Nim vaccines was safe and had synergistic effect on immune responses elicited to both vaccines. Further studies are needed before immunization schedule modifications. Such immunization schedule recommendation should provide better protection against this life-threatening disease in young children.', u'/manuscript/201701.0010/v1', [u'Clinical Neurology'], []]
[u'Microbiological Quality of a Locally Brewed Alcoholic Beverage (Pito) Sold in a Community within the Greater Accra Region, Ghana', ['Andrew A Minamor', 'Alberta Mensah Larteley', 'Emmanuel Nii Laryea', 'Emmanuel Afutu', 'Patience B Tetteh-Quarcoo'], u'January 2 2017', u'Pito is a traditionally brewed alcoholic beverage in some African countries. It is gaining much prominence and the patronage among the youth. Therefore, samples of the drink were collected every week for six weeks from three different popular brewing sites at Lower Prampram in the Ningo-Prampram District of Accra, Ghana. The samples were processed and examined for bacteria and fungi using the Standard Plate Count (SPC) technique. A total of six different bacteria and a fungus were isolated. The bacteria were Escherichia coli, Klesiella pneumoniae, Shigella spp, Enterobacter aerogenes, Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeroginosa, whiles the fungus was Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Total viable counts as well as individual isolates counts in all the pito samples were found to be less than 104 cfu/ml. It is noteworthy that, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the only fungus isolated is known to be associated with fermentation and the microbes isolated from the pito samples were found to be within the permissible limits. However, these potentially pathogenic microbes, if found in unacceptable limits, from the fermenting samples could merit public health attention. Therefore, periodic screening of pito and their brewers, coupled with education on the maintenance of recommended guidelines concerning food and drink production is encouraged.', u'/manuscript/201701.0003/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'Evaluation of Rational Drug Use for Acute Pharyngitis Associated with the Incidence and Prevalence of the Disease at Two Community Health Centers in Indonesia', ['Cindra T. Yuniar', 'Kusnandar Anggadiredja', 'Alfi N. Islamiyah'], u'December 30 2016', u'According to Indonesia\u2019s result of Basic Health Research of 2013, prevalence of acute respiratory infection in 2007 and 2013 were not different (25.5% and 25.0%, respectively). Identifying the cause of acute pharyngitis is a key point in determining the optimal treatment. The main purpose is to evaluate the rational use of drugs and its irrational impact as well as the correlation of the drug use with the incidence and prevalence of acute pharyngitis. This study was a descriptive and observational study, carried out retrospectively and concurrently at two community health centers located in Bandung and Cimahi, Indonesia. There were 80.01% over prescription of antibiotics, with a total of 8.98% is non-treatment option, and 62.43% irrational used of corticosteroids. The incidence and prevalence of acute pharyngitis at one health center in Bandung were 2.45% and 2.31%, respectively, with irrationality rate of 83.82%. Those recorded at one health center in Cimahi were 2.11% of incidence and 2.00% of prevalence with irrational rate of 91.29%. It can be concluded that there were still irrational use of medicines in the treatment of acute pharyngitis in community health center. The higher incidence and prevalence might indicate the declining health services quality.', u'/manuscript/201612.0149/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Are Pharmacy Graduates from an Indonesian University Prepared to Deliver Patient Care?', ['Desak Ernawati', 'Ya Ping Lee', 'Bruce Sunderland', 'Jeff Hughes'], u'December 30 2016', u'Pharmacists\u2019 roles in providing patient care remain limited in Indonesia, hence this study aimed to determine the preparedness of pharmacy graduates from one university in Indonesia to deliver patient care. Pharmacy graduates (both registered pharmacists [104] and recent graduates eligible for registration [45]) were sent a validated self-administered survey. The survey sought their perceptions about whether they had acquired 16 patient care related attributes. Further, it sought their opinion on the desirability of having those attributes. Data were analysed using SPSS version 22.0. Sixteen of 104 (15.4%) registered pharmacists and 40 of 45 (88.9%) recent pharmacy graduates participated in the study. More than 50% of participants in both groups were female and most participants were aged in their 20s. Of the recent pharmacy graduates the majority perceived they had at least partially acquired four of 16 list attributes. Male and female recent graduates had significantly different beliefs about their leadership ability (p=0.004). In comparison, most registered pharmacists perceived they had 10 out of the 16 listed attributes. The findings of this study suggested that pharmacy graduates should be better prepared to deliver patient care, and that curriculum redesign with expansion of experiential learning is required.', u'/manuscript/201612.0146/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Persons with Rheumatoid Arthritis Challenge the Relevance of the Health Assessment Questionnaire: A Qualitative Study of Patient Perception', ['David Ebbevi', 'Anna Essen', 'Helena Hvitfeldt Forsberg'], u'January 3 2017', u'Background. The Stanford Health Assessment Questionnaire-Disability Index (HAQ) is widely used to measure functional ability in persons with Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA). The instrument was developed with limited involvement from persons with RA, and their perception of the instrument has not been studied in depth. The aim of this study was to explore how persons with RA experience the use of the HAQ in care.Methods. Forty persons with RA were purposefully recruited to participate in semi-structured interviews. The interviews were then analyzed qualitatively using thematic analysis.Results. The participants questioned the relevance of the HAQ but nevertheless experienced that the instrument had a profound effect on their understanding of health and how care is delivered. The analysis resulted in three themes: Problems with individual items, meaning of the summative score, and effects on care and health perceptions.Conclusions. To make the HAQ relevant to persons with RA, it needs to be revised or to include an option to select items most meaningful to the respondent. To ensure relevance, the HAQ update should preferably be co-created by researchers, clinicians and persons with RA.', u'/manuscript/201701.0013/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'iPad Use in Stroke Neuro-Rehabilitation', ['Khalid Ameer', 'Khalid Ali'], u'January 5 2017', u'Neuro-rehabilitation services are essential in reducing post-stroke impairments, enhancing independence, and improving recovery in hospital and post-discharge. However these services are therapist-dependent and resource intensive. Patients\u2019 disengagement and boredom in stroke units are common which adversely affect functional and psychological outcomes. Novel techniques such as use of iPads\u2122 are increasingly researched to overcome such challenges. The aim of this review is to determine the feasibility, effectiveness, acceptability, and barriers to the use of iPads\u2122 in stroke neuro-rehabilitation. Four databases and manual literature search were used to identify published studies using the terms \u201ciPad\u201d, \u201cStroke\u201d, and \u201cneuro-rehabilitation\u201d. Studies were included in accordance with the review selection criteria. A total of 16 articles were included in the review. The majority of the studies focused on iPads use in speech and language therapy. Although of small scale, the studies highlighted that iPads are feasible, have the potential to improve rehabilitation outcomes, and can improve patient\u2019s social isolation. Patients\u2019 stroke severity and financial limitations are some of the barriers highlighted in this review. This review presents preliminary data supportive for the use of iPad technology in stroke neuro-rehabilitation. However, further research is needed to determine impact on rehabilitation goals acquisition, clinical efficacy, and cost-efficiency.', u'/manuscript/201701.0027/v1', [u'Clinical Neurology'], []]
[u'Establish and Apply a Safe and Convenient Pseudovirus-Based Assay to Detect Neutralizing Antibodies against Influenza A (H7N9) Virus', ['Li Zhang', 'Jing Lu', 'Jingxing Li', 'Rong Tang', 'Haiyan Peng', 'Fanyue Meng', 'Yuemei Hu'], u'January 6 2017', u'In March 2013, a novel avian influenza A H7N9 virus was emerged in China, which cause rapidly progressive pneumonia and with a high fatality rate. Serologic studies to evaluate neutralizing antibodies of infected patients and birds are invaluable tools for immunogenicity research of H7N9 and epidemiological investigation. Conventional neutralization assays are laborious and time-consuming which also hampered by biosafety requirement. In this study, We construct and produce pseudovirus bearing the full-length hemagglutinin (HA) of H7N9 virus in the Env-defective, luciferase-expressing HIV-1 backbone. The production of lentiviral pseudovirus was analysed by HA gene specific real-time reverse-transcription PCR, transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and Western Blot assay to prove the nucleic acid replication, the morphology of virus, and the expression of HA protein in pseudovirus. After that pseudovirus based inhibition assay was established to detect neutralizing antibodies of a panel of serum samples. Our results demonstrated that H7N9 pseudovirus which had single-cycle infection was generated. By comparing the neutralization antibody titers, pseudovirus based neutralization test could be recognized as an alternative of conventional microneutralization (MN). Hence, we conclude that it is possible to use pseudovirus inhibition assay to screen sera samples, as well as evaluate vaccine-induced neutralizing antibodies against H7N9 virus.', u'/manuscript/201701.0033/v1', [u'Virology'], []]
[u'Surveillance of Mosquitoes for Zika Virus in Westchester County, New York', ['Randolph Schilke'], u'January 9 2017', u'Geographic expansion and potential gains in the virulence of Zika virus emerged in Brazil during 2015. In 2016, New York State issued emergency regulations after the World Health Organization declared Zika virus a Public Health Emergency of International Concern. In this study, mosquito surveillance was conducted in Westchester County, New York, to identify Zika virus and other arboviruses. Twenty trap sites were used for Aedes albopictus surveillance. Westchester County Department of Health performed testing for Zika, West Nile, and Eastern equine encephalitis viruses on 369 batches comprising 8,891 mosquitos. Aedes albopictus mosquitos were identified in Nassau, Rockland, Suffolk, Westchester, and New York City. Zika virus was not detected among mosquitos, despite the increased capacity for specimen analysis in Westchester County. Although this study provides the first evidence of appropriate Zika virus surveillance, I am currently unable to determine the potential mechanism of vector transmission for Zika virus by Aedes albopictus. Results obtained from this study will aid in the accumulation of evidence regarding the distribution, emergence, and trapping capabilities of potential Zika virus vectors; however, further studies are required in order to determine with certainty whether Zika virus is being transmitted throughout Westchester County.', u'/manuscript/201701.0041/v1', [u'Entomology'], []]
[u'Optimization of Ultrasonic-Assisted Extraction by Response Surface Methodology with Maximal Phenolic Yield and Antioxidant Activity from Acer truncatum Leaves', ['Lingguang Yang', 'Peipei Yin', 'Hang Fan', 'Qiang Xue', 'Ke Li', 'Xiang Li', 'Liwei Sun', 'Yujun Liu'], u'January 9 2017', u'This study was designed for the first time to improve phenolic yield and antioxidant activity of ultrasonic-assisted extraction from Acer truncatum leaves (ATL) using response surface methodology, and phenolic composition in ATL extracted under the optimized condition were characterized by UPLC-QTOF-MS/MS. Solvent and extraction time were selected based on preliminary experiments, and a four-factors-three-levels central composite design was conducted to optimize solvent concentration (X1), material-to-liquid ratio (X2), ultrasonic temperature (X3) and power (X4) for an optimal total phenol yield (Y1) and DPPH\u2022 antioxidant activity (Y2). The results showed that the optimal combination was ethanol: water (v:v) 66.21%, material-to-liquid ratio 1:15.31 g/mL, ultrasonic temperature 60 \xb0C, power 267.30 W, and time 30 min with three extractions, giving a maximal total phenol yield of 7593.62 mg gallic acid equivalent /100 g d.w. and a maximal DPPH\u2022 antioxidant activity of 74241.61 \u03bcmol Trolox equivalent/100 g d.w.. Furthermore, 22 phenolics were first identified in ATL extract obtained under the optimized conditions, indicating that gallates, gallotannins, quercetin, myricetin and chlorogenic acid derivatives were the main phenolic composition in ATL. What\u2019s more, a gallotannins pathway existing in ATL from gallic acid to penta-O-galloyl-glucoside was interpreted. All these results provided practical information aiming at full utilization of phenolics in ATL, together with fundamental knowledge for further research.', u'/manuscript/201701.0036/v1', [u'Plant Sciences'], []]
[u'Use of the QuantiFERON-TB Gold In-Tube Test in the Diagnosis and Monitoring of Treatment Efficacy in Active Pulmonary Tuberculosis', ['Ping-Chin Chang', 'Pin-Hui Wang', 'Kow-Tong Chen'], u'January 9 2017', u'The value of QuantiFERON in the diagnosis of tuberculosis and in the monitoring of the response to anti-tuberculosis treatment is unclear. The aims of this study were to evaluate the accuracy of the QuantiFERON-TB Gold In-Tube (QFT-GIT) test in the diagnosis of tuberculosis and in the monitoring of the response to anti-tuberculosis treatment in patients with active pulmonary tuberculosis (PTB). Between January 2013 and December 2015, 128 cases with active PTB and 128 controls with no mycobacterial infection, matched by age (within 3 years) and by the week that they visited Tainan Chest Hospital, were enrolled in the study. Serial testing by QFT-GIT at baseline and after 2 and 6 months of treatment was performed. At these time points, a comparison of the performance of QFT-GIT with that of sputum culture status among study subjects was conducted. Compared to baseline, 116 (87.2%) cases showed a decreased response, whereas 17 (12.8%) showed persistent or stronger interferon-gamma (IFN-\u03b3) responses at 2 months. Their IFN-\u03b3 responses declined significantly from baseline to 2 months (median, 6.32 vs. 4.12; P < 0.005). The sensitivity values of the QFT-GIT test for the detection of pulmonary tuberculosis at cut-off points of 0.35 IU/ml, 0.20 IU/ml, and 0.10 IU/ml were 74.4%, 78.2%, and 80.5%, respectively. The specificity values at cut-off points of 0.35 IU/ml, 0.20 IU/ml, and 0.10 IU/ml were 66.2%, 63.9%, and 57.1%, respectively. Our results support the QFT-GIT assay as a potential tool for diagnosing tuberculosis and for monitoring the efficacy of anti-tuberculosis treatment.', u'/manuscript/201701.0035/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Sarcocystis neurona Protein Kinases: Computational Identification, Evolutionary Analysis and Putative Inhibitor Docking', ['Edwin Kimathi Murungi', 'Henry Muriuki Kariithi'], u'January 9 2017', u'The apicomplexan parasite, Sarcocystis neurona causes the degenerative neurological equine protozoal myeloencephalitis (EPM) disease of horses. Due to its host range expansion, S. neurona is an emerging threat that requires close monitoring. In apicomplexans, protein kinases (PKs) have been implicated in a myriad of critical functions such as host cell invasion, cell cycle progression and host immune responses evasion. Here, we used various bioinformatics methods to define the kinome of S.\xa0neurona and phylogenetic relatedness of its PKs to other apicomplexans. Further, three-dimensional (3D) homology models for selected S. neurona putative PKs were constructed and evaluated for inhibitor docking. We identified 92 putative PKs clustering within the AGC, CAMK, CK1, CMGC, STE, TKL, aPK and OPK groups. Although containing the universally conserved PKA (AGC group), S. neurona kinome was devoid of PKB and PKC, but contained the six apicomplexan conserved CDPKs (CAMK group). The OPK group was represented by ROPKs 19A, 27, 30, 33, 35 and 37, but was devoid of the virulence-associated ROPKs 5, 6, 18 and 38. Two out of the three S. neurona CK1 enzymes had high sequence similarities to T. gondii TgCK1-\u03b1 and TgCK1-\u03b2 and the Plasmodium PfCK1. Docking of four inhibitors onto homology models of putative ROP27 and PKA indicated that inhibition of S. neurona PKs is feasible, but needs to be experimentally tested. The essentiality of apicomplexan PKs makes the elucidation of S. neurona kinome a key milestone for development of novel therapeutics for EPM.', u'/manuscript/201701.0040/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], []]
[u'Curcumin a Multifaceted Compound with Hormetic Behaviour that Mediates an Intricate Crosstalk between Mitochondrial Biogenesis, Mitophagy, Mitophagic Death and Apoptosis', ['Nathan Earl Rainey', 'Aoula Moustapha', 'Raphaelle Parker', 'Patrice Xavier Petit'], u'January 10 2017', u"Curcumin, found in the rhizome of turmeric, has extensive therapeutic promises via its antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and antiproliferative properties. Preclinical in vitro and in vivo data have shown curcumin to be an effective treatment for multiple cancers. These effects are drived by curcumin's ability to induce G2/M cell cycle arrest, induction of autophagy, activation of apoptotic pathways, disruption of molecular signaling, inhibition of invasion and metastasis, and by increasing the efficacy of existing chemotherapeutics. Here we focused on the hormetic behaviour of curcumin. Frequently, low doses of toxins and other stressors not only are harmless but also activate an adaptive stress whereas high dose activates acute responses like autophagy and cell death. This phenomenon is referred to as hormesis. Many molecules that cause cell death elicite an initial autophagic step that is a cytoprotective mechanism relying on elimination of dysfunctional structures intracellular, notably by mitophagy. This phenomenon is considered as a primarily protective mechanism against stressors. At higher doses, cells undergo mitochondrial outer membrane permeabilization due to calcium release from the endoplasmic reticulum and die. Herein, we address the complex crosstalk between the induced mitochondrial biogenesis, mitochondrial destabilization accompanied by mitophagy and cell death that can also be at play.", u'/manuscript/201701.0039/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Occurrence of Aflatoxigenic Aspergillus Species in Various Varieties of Peanuts Produced in Western Kenya', ['Menza C. Nelson', 'Muturi W. Margaret', 'Lucy Kamau'], u'January 9 2017', u'Aflatoxin contaminates foods including peanuts. Aflatoxin is a carcinogenic toxin mainly produced bty Aspergillus flavus. Other Aspergillus species that rarely produce aflatoxins are A. nomius and A. niger. Aflatoxin is associated with liver failure, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and death. Recent studies have shown that peanuts in Kenya are highly contaminated with aflatoxins but information gaps exist on the characterization of the Aspergillus species that produce aflatoxins in peanuts in Kenya. Therefore, this gap necessitated the determination of the Aspergillus species producing aflatoxins in peanuts from the main growing districts of Busia and Kisii Central districts. One hundred and two (102) peanuts samples were collected from farmers\u2019 in each district Aspergillus species were isolated from the peanut samples by using the dilution plate technique on modified Rose Bengal agar. Phenotypical characterization of the identified Aspergillus section flavus isolates from the peanuts samples was determined using the procedure of Mellon and Cotty. This study identified five (5) Aspergillus species as contaminants in peanuts analyzed in this study. They were Aspergillus flavus L-strain, Aspergillus flavus S-strain, Aspergillus parasiticus, Aspergillus niger and Aspergillus tamari. Overall, the occurrence of Aspergillus flavus L- strain and A. flavus S- strain were significantly higher than other species identified (H = 15.55, df = 4, P = 0.004) in peanuts from the two districts. However, A. flavus S-strain was the most dominant species identified in the study with a mean occurrence of 45.1%. Aspergillus flavus L- strain was the most common isolate (58.8%) in peanuts from Busia district while A. flavus S- strain was the most common strain (60.2%) in peanuts from Kisii Central district. Overall, the occurrence of Aspergillus flavus L strain and A. flavus S strain were significantly higher than other species identified (H = 15.55, df = 4, P = 0.004) in peanuts from the two districts. However, A. flavus S-strain was the most dominant species (F=3.15, df =25, P=0.031) with an overall mean occurrence of 45.1%. The confirmation of occurrence of other species that produce toxins such as A. niger and A. tamarii which also produces cyclopiazonic acid suggests the need to screen peanuts for other carcinogenic mycotoxins.', u'/manuscript/201701.0044/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], []]
[u'Targeting MicroRNAs in Cancer Gene Therapy', ['Weidan Ji', 'Bin Sun', 'Changqing Su'], u'January 9 2017', u'MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a kind of conserved small non-coding RNAs that participate in regulating gene expression by targeting multiple molecules. Early studies have shown that the expression of miRNAs changes significantly in different tumor tissues and cancer cell lines. It is well acknowledged that such variation is involved in almost all biological processes, including cell proliferation, mobility, survival and differentiation. Increasing experimental data indicate that miRNA dysregulation is a biomarker of several pathological conditions including cancer, and that miRNA can exert a causal role, as oncogenes or tumor suppressor genes, in different steps of the tumorigenic process. Anticancer therapies based on miRNAs are currently being developed with a goal to improve outcomes of cancer treatment. In our present study, we review the function of miRNAs in tumorigenesis and development, and discuss the latest clinical applications and strategies of therapy targeting miRNAs in cancer.', u'/manuscript/201701.0046/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], []]
[u'Interleukin-1 Receptor Antagonist (IL1RA) and Interleukin-4 (IL4) Genes Variable Number Tandem Repeats (VNTRs) Are Associated with Adiposity in Malaysian Subjects', ['Yung-Yean Kok', 'Hing-Huat Ong', 'Yee-How Say'], u'January 10 2017', u'IL1RA intron 2 86-bp repeat and IL4 intron 3 70-bp repeat are VNTRs that have been associated with various diseases, but their role in obesity is elusive. The objective of this study was to investigate the association of IL1RA and IL4 VNTRs with obesity and adiposity in 315 Malaysian subjects (128 M/187 F; 23 Malays/251 ethnic Chinese/41 ethnic Indians). The allelic distributions of IL1RA and IL4 were significantly different among ethnicities, and the alleles were associated with total body fat (TBF) classes. Individuals with IL1RA I/II genotype or allele II had greater risk of having higher adiposity - even after controlling for ethnicity [Odds Ratio (OR) of I/II genotype = 12.21 (CI = 2.54, 58.79; p = 0.002); II allele = 5.78 (CI = 1.73, 19.29; p = 0.004)]. However, IL4 VNTR B2 allele was only significantly associated with overall adiposity status before adjusting for ethnicity [OR = 1.53 (CI = 1.04, 2.23; p = 0.03)]. TBF was also significantly higher in those with IL1RA II allele compared with I allele (31.79 \xb1 2.52 vs. 23.51 \xb1 0.40; p = 0.005). Taken together, IL1RA intron 3 VNTR seems to be a genetic marker for overall adiposity status in Malaysian subjects.', u'/manuscript/201701.0050/v1', [u'Anatomy & Morphology'], []]
[u'Phytomedicine in Joint Disorders', ['Dorin Dragos', 'Marilena Gilca', 'Laura Gaman', 'Adelina Vlad', 'Liviu Iosif', 'Irina Stoian', 'Olivera Lupescu'], u'January 11 2017', u'Chronic joint inflammatory disorders such as osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis have in common an upsurge of inflammation, and oxidative stress, resulting in progressive histological alterations and disabling symptoms. Currently used conventional medication (ranging from pain-killers to biological agents) is potent, but frequently associated with serious, even life-threatening side effects. Used for millennia in traditional herbalism, medicinal plants are a promising alternative, with lower rate of adverse events and an efficiency frequently comparable with that of conventional drugs. Nevertheless, their mechanism of action is in many cases elusive and/or uncertain. Even many of them have been proved effective in studies done in vitro or on animal models, there is a scarcity of human clinical evidence. The purpose of this review is to summarise the available scientific information on these joint-friendly medicinal plants, which have been already tested in human studies: Arnica montana, Boswelliaspp., Curcuma spp., Equisetum arvense, Harpagophytumprocumbens, Salix spp., Sesamumindicum, Symphytumofficinalis, Zingiberofficinalis, Panaxnotoginseng, Whitaniasomnifera.', u'/manuscript/201701.0057/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'High Bacterial Agglutination Activity in a Single-CRD C-Type Lectin from Spodoptera exigua (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae)', ['Leila Gasmi', 'Juan Ferre', 'Salvador Herrero'], u'January 13 2017', u'Lectins are carbohydrate-interacting proteins playing a pivotal role in multiple physiological and developmental aspects of all organisms. They can specifically interact with different bacterial and viral pathogens through the carbohydrate-recognition domains (CRD). In addition, lectins are also of biotechnological interest because of their potential use as biosensor for capturing and identification of bacterial species. In this work, we have characterized the bacterial agglutination properties of three C-type lectins from the Lepidoptera Spodoptera exigua. One of these lectins, BLL2, was able to agglutinate cells from a broad range of bacterial species at an extremely low concentration, becoming a very interesting protein to be used as biosensor or other biotechnological applications involving bacterial capturing.', u'/manuscript/201701.0071/v1', [u'Biotechnology'], []]
[u'Food as Commons or Commodity? Exploring the Links between Normative Valuations and Agency in Food Transition', ['Jose Luis Vivero-Pol'], u'January 16 2017', u'The food system, the most important driver of planetary transformation, is in a deep crisis. Therefore, seeking a sustainable and socially-fair transition pathway becomes an issue of utmost priority for our own survival. The consideration of food as a commodity, a social construct that played a central role in driving this crisis, remains the uncontested narrative to lead the different transition pathways what seems rather contradictory. By exploring the normative values in the transition landscape, this paper seeks to understand how relevant is the hegemonic narrative of \u201cfood as commodity\u201d and its alternative of \u201cfood as commons\u201d to determine transition trajectories and food policy beliefs. Applying the Multi-level Perspective framework and developing the ill-studied \u201cagency in transition\u201d, this research enquired food-related professionals that belong to an online community of practice (N=95) on valuation of food dimensions and agency in food transitions to check whether the valuation of food is relevant to explain personal stances in transition. Results suggest the socially-constructed view of food as commodity is positively correlated to the gradual reforming attitude, whereas food as commons is positively correlated to the counter-hegemonic transformers regardless the self-defined position in the transition landscape (regime or niches). At personal level, there are multiple loci of resistance with counter-hegemonic attitudes in varied institutions of the regime and the innovative niches, many of them holding this discourse of food as commons. Conversely, alter-hegemonic attitudes are not positively correlated to this alternative discourse and they may inadvertently or purportedly reinforce the \u2018\u2018neoliberal narrative\u2019\u2019. Food as commons, a different narrative whose rationale is explained in the paper, seems to be a relevant framework that could enrich the multiple transformative constituencies that challenge the industrial food system and therefore facilitate the convergence of movements that reject the commodification of food.', u'/manuscript/201701.0073/v1', [u'Agricultural Sciences & Agronomy'], []]
[u'miR-30a as Potential Therapeutic by Targeting TET1 through Regulation of the Hydroxymethlation of Drp-1 Promoter in IPF', ['Songzi Zhang', 'Huizhu Liu', 'Yuxia Liu', 'Jie Zhang', 'Hongbo Li', 'Weili Liu', 'Guohong Cao', 'Pan Xu', 'Jinjin Zhang', 'Changjun Lv', 'Xiaodong Song'], u'January 16 2017', u'Several recent studies have indicated that miR-30a plays critical roles in various biological processes and diseases. However, the mechanism of miR-30a participation in the regulation of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is ambiguous. Our previous study demonstrated that miR-30a may function as a novel therapeutic target for lung \ufb01brosis by blocking mitochondrial fission, which is dependent on dynamin-related protein-1 (Drp-1). However, the regulatory mechanism between miR-30a and Drp-1 has yet to be investigated. In addition, whether miR-30a can act as a potential therapeutic has not been verified in vivo. In this study, the miR-30a expression in IPF patients was evaluated. Computational analysis and a dual luciferase reporter system assay were used to identify the target gene of miR-30a, and cell transfection was used to confirm this relationship. Ten-eleven translocation 1 (TET1) was validated as a direct target of miR-30a, and the transfection of miR-30a mimic/inhibitor significantly reduced/increased the expression of TET1 protein. Further experiment verified that the interference on TET1(siRNA) could inhibit the hydroxymethlation of the Drp-1 promoter. Finally, miR-30a agomir was designed and applied to identify and validate the therapeutic effect of miR-30a in vivo. Our study demonstrated that miR-30a could inhibit the TET1 expression by base pairing with complementary sites in the 3\u2032 untranslated region to regulate the hydroxymethlation of the Drp-1 promoter. Furthermore, miR-30a could act as a potential therapeutic target for IPF.', u'/manuscript/201701.0074/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], []]
[u'Gelatin Nanoparticles Loaded with PMX-53 Prevents Alveolar Bone Loss in Miniature Swines Model of Periodontitis', ['Jiahui Pan', 'Na Li', 'Qiuling Tang', 'Gege Li', 'Yubo Hou', 'Liuran Wang', 'Weixian Yu'], u'January 19 2017', u'Periodontitis is a chronic inflammatory disease which results in the destruction of the tooth\u2019 s supporting tissues and the alveolar bone resorption. The complement becomes a major link between infection and inflammatory pathology including periodontitis. Gingipians as important virulence factors of P. gingivalis have the activity of C5 convertase, could cleave C5 into fully functional C5a to activate C5aR. The above process could be blocked by the C5aR antagonist (PMX-53) to suppress local periodontal inflammation, and then achieves the purpose of treatment of periodontitis. Nanoparticles incorporated within gelatin are promising carrier system for drug delivery in recent years. This study aimed to investigate whether gelatin nanoparticles loaded with PMX-53 prevents alveolar bone resorption in miniature swines model of periodontitis. Four miniature swines were placed ligatures around the maxillary and mandibular fourth premolar and first molar on both sides for seven weeks to induce periodontitis. Then, animals were assigned randomly to four groups: minocycline-treated group, gelatin with PMX53-treated group, gelatin-treated group and a sham control group. They were treated with 1ml related drugs respectively, into gingival sulcusl for 4 times at one-week intervals. We showed that local treatments with gelatin nanoparticles loaded with PMX-53 could inhibit alveolar bone loss of periodontitis. Our study revealed that gelatin nanoparticles loaded with PMX-53 prevented alveolar bone resorption miniature swines model of periodontitis. In addition, provided proof-of-concept for local targeting of gelatin nanoparticles loaded with PMX-53 as a powerful candidate for the treatment of periodontitis.', u'/manuscript/201701.0083/v1', [u'Dentistry'], []]
[u'The Spermine Phosphate-Bound Cyclooctaoxygen Sodium Epigenetic Shell of Euchromatin DNA is Destroyed by the Epigenetic Poison Glyphosate', ['Andreas J. Kesel', 'Eduard A. Struys', 'Barbara Cellini'], u'January 19 2017', u'Oxygen exists in two gaseous and six solid allotropic modifications. An additional allotropic modification of oxygen, the cyclooctaoxygen, was predicted to exist in 1990. The first synthesis and characterization of cyclooctaoxygen as its sodium crown complex, isolated in the form of three cytosine nucleoside hydrochloride complexes, was reported in 2016. Cyclooctaoxygen sodium was synthesized from atmospheric oxygen, or catalase effect-generated oxygen, under catalysis of cytosine nucleosides and either ninhydrin or eukaryotic low-molecular weight RNA. The cationic cyclooctaoxygen sodium complex was shown to bind RNA and DNA, to associate with single-stranded DNA and spermine phosphate, and to be essentially non-toxic to cultured mammalian cells at 0.1\u20131.0 mM concentration. We postulated that cyclooctaoxygen is formed in most eukaryotic cells from dihydrogen peroxide in a catalase reaction catalysed by cytidine and RNA. A molecular biological model was deduced for a first epigenetic shell of eukaryotic euchromatin. This model incorporates an epigenetic explanation for the interactions of the essential micronutrient selenium (as selenite) with eukaryotic euchromatin. The sperminium phosphate/cyclooctaoxygen sodium complex is calculated to cover the actively transcribed regions (2.6%) of bovine lymphocyte interphase genome. Cyclooctaoxygen seems to be naturally absent in hypoxia-induced highly condensed chromatin, taken as a model for eukaryotic metaphase/anaphase/early telophase mitotic chromatin. We hence propose that the cyclooctaoxygen sodium-bridged spermine phosphate and selenite coverage serves as an epigenetic shell of actively transcribed gene regions in eukaryotic \u2018open\u2019 euchromatin DNA. The total herbicide glyphosate (ROUNDUP) and its metabolite (aminomethyl)phosphonic acid (AMPA) are proved to represent \u2018epigenetic poisons\u2019, since they both selectively destroy the cyclooctaoxygen sodium complex. This definition is of reason, since the destruction of cyclooctaoxygen is sufficient to bring the protection shield of human euchromatin into collateral epigenetic collapse.', u'/manuscript/201701.0086/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], []]
[u'NANOG Plays a Hierarchical Role in the Transcription Network Regulating the Pluripotency and Plasticity of Adipose Tissue-Derived Stem Cells (ASCs)', ['Maria Pitrone', 'Giuseppe Pizzolanti', 'Laura Tomasello', 'Antonina Coppola', 'Lorenzo Morini', 'Gianni Pantuso', 'Romina Ficarella', 'Valentina Guarnotta', 'Sebastio Perrini', 'Francesco Giorgino', 'Carla Giordano'], u'January 19 2017', u'The stromal vascular cell fraction (SVF) of visceral and subcutaneous adipose tissue (VAT and SAT) has increasingly come into focus in stem cell research, since these compartments represent a rich source of multipotent adipose-derived stem cells (ASCs). ASCs exhibit a self- renewal potential and differentiation capacity. Our aim was to study the different expression of embryonic stem cell markers NANOG, SOX2 and OCT3/4 and to evaluate if there exists a hierarchal role in this network in ASCs derived from both SAT and VAT. ASCs were isolated from SAT and VAT biopsies of 72 consenting patients (23 men, 47 women; age 45 \xb1 10; BMI between 25 and 30 range) undergoing elective open-abdominal surgery. Sphere-forming capability was evaluated by plating cells in low adhesion plastic. Stem cell markers CD90 and CD105 were analyzed by flow cytometry and stem cell transcription factors NANOG, SOX2 and OCT3/4 were detected by immunoblotting and Real-Time PCR. NANOG, SOX2 and OCT3/4 interplay was explored by gene silencing. ASCs from VAT and SAT confirmed their mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) phenotype expressing the specific MSC markers CD90 and CD105 and NANOG, SOX2 and OCT3/4. NANOG silencing induced a significant OCT 3/4 (70% \xb1 0.05) and SOX2 (75% \xb1 0.03) down-regulation whereas SOX2 silencing did not affect NANOG gene expression. Adipose tissue is an important source of MSC, and siRNA experiments endorse a hierarchical role of NANOG in the complex transcription network that regulates pluripotency and plasticity.', u'/manuscript/201701.0088/v1', [u'Endocrinology & Metabolomics'], []]
[u'Circulating Docosahexaenoic Acid Associates with Insulin-Dependent Skeletal Muscle and Whole Body Glucose Uptake in Older Women Born from Normal Weight Mothers', ['Robert M. Badeau', 'Miikka-Juhani Honka', 'Marco Bucci', 'Patricia Iozzo', 'Johan G. Eriksson', 'Pirjo Nuutila'], u'January 20 2017', u'Background: Obesity among pregnant women is common, and their offspring are predisposed to obesity, insulin resistance, and diabetes. Circulating metabolites that are related to insulin resistance and are associated with this decreased tissue-specific uptake are unknown. Here, we assessed metabolite profiles in elderly women and who were either female offspring from obese mothers (OOM) or offspring of lean mothers (OLM). Metabolic changes were tested for associations with metrics for insulin resistance. Methods: 37 elderly women were separated into an elderly offspring from obese mothers (OOM; n = 17) and elderly offspring from lean/normal weight mothers (OLM; n = 20) groups. We measured plasma metabolites using 1H-NMR and also insulin-dependent tissue specific glucose uptake in skeletal muscle were assessed. Associations were made between metabolites and glucose uptake. Results: Compared to the OLM group, we found that the 22:6 docosahexaenoic acid percentage of the total long chain n-3 fatty acids (DHA/FA) was significantly lower in OOM (P = 0.015). DHA/FA associated significantly to skeletal muscle GU (P = 0.031) and M-value in the OLM group only (P = 0.050). Conclusions: DHA/FA is associated with insulin-dependent skeletal muscle glucose uptake and that this association is significantly weakened in the offspring of obese mothers.', u'/manuscript/201701.0093/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'Theranostics in Nuclear Medicine Practice', ['Anna Yordanova', 'Elisabeth Eppard', 'Stefan Kurpig', 'Stefan Schonberger', 'Maria Gonzalez-Carmona', 'Georg Feldmann', 'Hojjat Ahmadzadehfar', 'Markus Essler'], u'January 22 2017', u'TThe importance of personalized medicine is growing, since there is an urged need to avoid unnecessary and expensive treatments. In nuclear medicine, the theranostic approach is an established tool for a specific molecular targeting in means of diagnostics and therapy. The visualisation of potential targets can help to predict if a patient would benefit from a particular treatment or not. Thanks to the quick development of radiopharmaceuticals and diagnostic techniques, the use of theranostic agents is constantly rising. In this article important milestones of nuclear therapies and diagnostics in the context of theranostics are highlighted. It begins with the well-known radioiodine therapy in patients with thyroid cancer and then guides through different approaches for the treatment of advanced cancer with targeted therapies. The aim of this review is to provide a summary of background knowledge, current applications and advantages of targeted therapies and imaging in nuclear medicine practice.', u'/manuscript/201701.0094/v1', [u'Oncology & Oncogenics'], []]
[u'In Vivo Imaging of Local Gene Expression Induced by Magnetic Hyperthermia', ['Olivier Sandre', 'Coralie Genevois', 'Eneko Garaio', 'Laurent Adumeau', 'Stephane Mornet', 'Franck Couillaud'], u'January 24 2017', u'The present work aims to demonstrate that colloidal dispersions of magnetic iron oxide nanoparticles stabilized with dextran macromolecules placed in an alternating magnetic field can not only produce heat, but also that these particles could be used in vivo for local and non-invasive deposition of a thermal dose sufficient to trigger thermo-induced gene expression. Iron oxide nanoparticles were first characterized in vitro on a bio-inspired setup, and then they were assayed in vivo using a transgenic mouse strain expressing the luciferase reporter gene under transcriptional control of a thermosensitive promoter. Iron oxide nanoparticles dispersions were applied topically on the mouse skin or injected sub-cutaneously with Matrigel\u2122 to generate so called pseudo tumors. Temperature was monitored continuously with a feedback loop to control the power of the magnetic field generator and to avoid overheating. Thermo-induced luciferase expression was followed by bioluminescence imaging 6 hours after heating. We showed that dextran-coated magnetic iron oxide nanoparticles dispersions were able to induce in vivo mild hyperthermia compatible with thermo-induced gene expression in surrounding tissues and without impairing cell viability. These data open new therapeutic perspectives for using mild magnetic hyperthermia as non-invasive modulation of tumor microenvironment by local thermo-induced gene expression or drug release.', u'/manuscript/201701.0105/v1', [u'Biotechnology'], []]
[u'AKR1C1 as a Biomarker for Differentiating the Biological Effects of Combustible from Non-Combustible Tobacco Products', ['Sangsoon Woo', 'Hong Gao', 'David Henderson', 'Wolfgang Zacharias', 'Gang Liu', 'Quynh T. Tran', 'G. L. Prasad'], u'January 25 2017', u'Smoking has been established as a major risk factor for developing oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC), but less attention has been paid to the effects of smokeless tobacco products. Our objective is to identify potential biomarkers to distinguish the biological effects of combustible tobacco products from those of non-combustible using oral cell lines. Normal human gingival epithelial cells (HGEC), non-metastatic (101A) and metastatic (101B) OSCC cell lines were exposed to different tobacco product preparations (TPPs) including cigarette smoke total particulate matter (TPM), whole-smoke conditioned media (WS-CM), smokeless tobacco extract in complete artificial saliva (STE), or nicotine (NIC) alone. We performed microarray-based gene expression profiling and found 3456 probe sets from 101A, 1432 probe sets from 101B, and 2717 probe sets from HGEC to be differentially expressed. Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) revealed xenobiotic metabolism and steroid biosynthesis were the top two pathways that were upregulated by combustible but not by non-combustible TPPs. Notably, aldo-keto reductase genes, AKR1C1 and AKR1C2, were the core genes in the top enriched pathways and were statistically upregulated more than 8 fold by combustible TPPs. Our qRT-PCR results statistically support AKR1C1 as a potential biomarker for differentiating the biological effects of combustible from non-combustible tobacco products.', u'/manuscript/201701.0111/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], []]
[u'A Network Perspective on Suicidal Behaviour', ['Derek de Beurs'], u'January 25 2017', u'Although suicide is a major public health issue worldwide, we understand little of the onset and development of suicidal behavior. Suicidal behavior is argued to be the end result of the complex interaction between social, biological and environmental factors. Traditional epidemiological analytics techniques are not equipped to deal with this complexity. A new technique called network analysis can help us better understand suicidal behavior as it allows to visualize and quantify complex association between many symptoms. It moves away from the idea that symptoms are caused by an underlying common cause such as depression or suicidality. Instead, symptoms are thought to cause each other. A network perspective has been successfully applied to the field of depression, psychosis and PTSD, but not yet to the field of suicidology. In this perspective article, I will argue that a network perspective on suicidal behavior can help us to 1) better understand suicidal behavior, 2) develop more sensitive diagnostic tools for subgroups of patients, and 3) help the personalized treatment of suicidal behavior. I will provide examples based on real data, and offer directions for future studies.', u'/manuscript/201701.0116/v1', [u'Psychiatry & Mental Health studies'], []]
[u'Transcriptomic and Metabolomics Analyses Show that High Carbohydrate Induces Fatty Liver in Blunt Snout Bream (Megalobrama amblycephala)', ['Wassana Prisingkorn', 'Panita Prathomya', 'Han Liu', 'Fang-Yu Deng', 'Yu-Hua Zhao', 'Wei-Min Wang'], u'January 26 2017', u'A high intake of carbohydrates, associated with obesity, is one of the major causes of fatty liver disease in humans. This study investigated how high carbohydrate intake induces fatty liver disease in Blunt snout bream (Megalobrama amblycephala). Blunt snout bream were fed a high-carbohydrate diet (HCBD) for 60 days. Their growth indices were evaluated, and the transcriptomes, metabolites, biochemistry, and histology of their blood and livers were analyzed. The final weight, weight gain, specific growth rate, and feed conversion ratio were all higher in the HCBD group than in the control group, but not significantly so (P > 0.05). The hepatosomatic index (HSI) differed significantly in the two groups (P < 0.05), and the metabolomics results showed that a high carbohydrate intake induced significant increases in plasma \u03b1/\u03b2-glucose, succinate, and tyrosine, which could increase hepatic glycogen and triglyceride. Low levels of betaine were also found in the livers of the HCBD group. The histology and blood biochemistry results suggested abnormal liver, with excessive lipid accumulation and liver damage. A transcriptome analysis and quantitative reverse transcription\u2013PCR (RT\u2013qPCR) indicated that the expression of the factors INSR, IRS, PI3K, PDK, AKT, ACC, IL6, AP1, ChREBP-MLX, PEPCK, and FBP in the insulin signaling pathway was significantly upregulated and that of SOCS3, GSK3\u03b2, and AMPK significantly downregulated in the HCBD. This pattern is associated with the nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) pathway. This study extends our understanding of how high carbohydrate causes increased fat deposition in the liver, enhanced glycolysis (\u03b1/\u03b2-glucose) in the plasma, and reduced betaine in the liver. This leads to activation of hepatocyte insulin resistance and lipogenesis by regulating the expression of genes related to fatty liver disease.', u'/manuscript/201701.0117/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], []]
[u'Iron Deficiency Anemia (IDA) in Pregnant Women of Different Ages in Swat District, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Pakistan', ['Atta Ullah', 'Ali Muhammad Yousafzai', 'Gul Nabi Khan', 'Nasir Iqbal', 'Bashir Ahmad'], u'January 27 2017', u'Abstract: The aim of this study was to find out the incidence of anemia in pregnant women of Swat District; to analyze the iron variations and its dietary effects.Data were collected during the periods of January \u2013 September 2016. The study of samples comprised of 250 pregnant women in the different trimester. Blood sample from each woman was collected and full blood count (FBC) was conducted through Mindray BC-3000 plus hem analyzer for all pregnant individuals. Confirmed anemic cases were then examined for IDA with serum ferritin, serum iron, total iron binding capacity (TIBC) through Randox kit and serum transferrin saturation was estimated by formula (serum ferritin saturation =serum iron \xd7100/TIBC). The total number of participants in the first trimester were 50, among them 26 women were suffer from iron deficiency anemia (IDA) with 52% weightage of prevalence rate, (mean Hb concentration 9.602 \xb1 0.87 g/dl). The rates of IDA were 63.3%; ( mean Hb concentration 8.48 \xb1 1.24 g/dl) and 54%; ( mean Hb concentration 9.18 \xb1 1.28 g/dl), among 150 and 50 participants in the second and third trimester, respectively. A significant correlation was found between serum ferritin and Hb, serum ferritin against MCV and serum ferritin against MCH. The high prevalence of anemia was found 78.2% in the age group from 26-30 followed by 78.2% in the age group 36-40 years compared to those of other age groups in the second trimester. In this study the prevalence of IDA in third trimester is lower compared to first and second trimester.', u'/manuscript/201701.0126/v1', [u'Animal Sciences & Zoology'], []]
[u'Polygenic Selection, Polygenic Scores, Spatial Autocorrelation and Correlated Allele Frequencies. Can We Model Polygenic Selection on Intellectual Abilities?', ['Davide Piffer'], u'January 27 2017', u'The majority of polygenic selection signal of educational attainment GWAS hits is confined to a handful of SNPs within genomic regions replicated across GWAS publications. A polygenic score comprising 9 SNPs predicts population IQ (r=0.9), outperforming 99.9% of the polygenic scores obtained from sets of random SNPs. Its predictive power remains unaffected after controlling for spatial autocorrelation. Even random polygenic scores are moderate predictors of population IQ, and their predictive power increases logarithmically with the number of SNPs, indicating an exponential reduction in noise.Thus, the predictive power of polygenic scores has to be scaled in proportion to the number of SNPs composing them.', u'/manuscript/201701.0127/v1', [u'Genetics'], []]
[u'CO2-Induced Changes in Wheat Grain Composition: Meta-Analysis and Response Functions', ['Malin C. Broberg', 'Petra Hogy', 'Hakan Pleijel'], u'January 31 2017', u'Elevated carbon dioxide (eCO2) stimulates wheat grain yield, but simultaneously reduces protein (N) concentration. Also other essential nutrients are subject to change. This study is a comprehensive synthesis of wheat experiments with eCO2, estimating effects on N, minerals (B, Ca, Cd, Fe, K, Mg, Mn, Na, P, S, Zn), and starch. Analysis was made by i) deriving response functions for the relative effect on element concentration in relation to CO2 concentration, ii) meta-analysis to test the magnitude and significance of observed effects, and iii) relating CO2 effects on minerals to effects on N and grain yield. Responses range from zero to strong negative effects of eCO2 on mineral concentration, with largest reductions for the nutritionally important elements N, Fe, S, Zn and Mg. Together with the positive but small and non-significant effect on starch concentration, the large variation in effects suggests that CO2-induced responses cannot be explained by a simple dilution model. To explain the observed pattern, uptake and transport mechanisms may have to be considered, along with the link of different elements to N uptake. Our study shows that eCO2 has a significant effect on wheat grain stoichiometry, with implications for human nutrition in a world of rising CO2.', u'/manuscript/201701.0134/v1', [u'Agricultural Sciences & Agronomy'], []]
[u'Danggui-Shaoyao-San, a Traditional Chinese Medicine, Relieved Depression and Cognitive Disorder Induced by Chronic Restraint Stress Involved in Regulating Dendritic Spines Remodeling', ['Kecheng Zhou', 'Junbin Yin', 'Huanghui Wu', 'Wei Hu', 'Zhen Gao', 'Fang Li', "An'an Wu", 'Wen Wang', 'Junping Kou'], u'January 31 2017', u'Background: Clinical trails have revealed that patients with depression generally accompanied with learning and memory impairment, which critically impact on individual\u2019s health and development. Danggui-Shaoyao-San (DSS), a famous Chinese complex prescription, significantly overcame depression and relieved cognitive disorder based on previous research and publication. However, its effectsand potential mechanism against chronic restraint stress (CRS) remained unknown. Methods: CRS animal model was established and mice were divided to six groups while they were oral administrated with Danggui-Shaoyao-San at doses of 1.25, 2.5 and 5 g/kg for 14 days. Emotional and cognitive performances were detected by behavior tests, meanwhile neural plasticity and its molecular mechanism were examined by Dil staining, western blot and immunofluorescence. Results: DSS treatment dose-dependently improved locomotion ability in open filed test, overcame depression behavior in forced swimming test and elevated plus maze test, enhanced learning and memory ability in Morris water maze test. CRS decreased number of total spines and mushroom spines, while DSS treatment dose-dependently restored these by Dil staining. Expression of BDNF and GluR1 were significantly down-regulated in CRS group, which were significantly normalized by DSS. Conclusions: DSS treatment dose-dependently reversed CRS-induced cognitive impairments by inducing structural remodeling of neurons.', u'/manuscript/201701.0138/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], []]
[u'Evolution of Serum 25OHD in Response to Vitamin D3 Fortified-Yogurts Consumed by Healthy Menopausal Women: A Six-Month Randomized-Controlled Trial Assessing the Interactions between Doses, Baseline Vitamin D Status and Seasonality', ['Jean-Philippe Bonjour', 'Flore Dontot-Payen', 'Emilien Rouy', 'Stephane Walrand', 'Brigitte Rousseau'], u'January 31 2017', u'A 24 week-controlled trial was conducted in menopausal women (mean age:61.5) to assess serum 25-hydroyvitaminD (s25OHD) evolution in relation to three interdependent determinants: doses of supplemented (Suppl.) vitamin D3 (VitD3); baseline status; seasonality. Participants were randomized into 3 groups (Gr): Gr.Suppl.0, time-controls maintaining dietary habits; Gr.Suppl.5 and Gr.Suppl.10 consuming one and two 125 g servings of VitD3-fortified yogurts with 5 and 10 \xb5g daily doses, respectively. The 16 intervention-weeks lasted from early-January to mid-August, the 8 follow-up-weeks from late-August to mid-October. Before enrollment, subjects were randomized into two s25OHD strata: \u201cLow stratum (LoStr)\u201c: 25-50 nmol/L; \u201cHigh stratum (HiStr)\u201c: >50-75 nmol/L. All enrolled participants remained compliant until study end: Gr.Suppl.0 (n=45), Gr.Suppl.5 (n=44) Gr.Suppl.10 (n=44). Over the 16 intervention and 8 follow-up weeks, s25OHD increased in both supplemented groups, more in Gr.Suppl.10 than Gr.Suppl.5. The constant rate of s25OHD per supplemental VitD3 microgram was greater in LoStr than HiStr. s25OHD increase was greater with late (mid-March) than early (mid-January) inclusion. In conclusion, this randomized trial demonstrates: -a dose-dependent s25OHD improvement related to fortified yogurt consumption; -an inversely baseline-dependent increase in s25OHD; -a seasonal effect that highlights the importance of vitamin D3 supplementation during winter, even at 5\xb5g/d, in healthy menopausal women.', u'/manuscript/201701.0135/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'Psychometric Properties of a Developed Questionnaire to Assess Knowledge, Attitude and Practice (KAP) Regarding Vitamin D Nutrition', ['Parisa Amiri', 'Golaleh Asghari', 'Hoda Sadrosadat', 'Mehrdad Karimi', 'Atieh Amouzegar', 'Parvin Mirmiran', 'Fereidoun Azizi'], u'February 1 2017', u'The aim of this study was to develop a valid and reliable questionnaire to assess vitamin D-related knowledge, attitude and practice (KAP) in Iranian adults who may be at increased risk of vitamin D deficiency. This study was conducted on 527 subjects, aged \u226520 years from Public health care centers in Tehran, Iran. Based on results of literature review and in-depth interviews, the 38-item vitamin D-related KAP questionnaire with four subscale was developed: 1) general knowledge; 2) nutritional knowledge; 3) attitudes; 4) behaviors. Validity of the developed vitamin D-KAP questionnaire was assessed, utilizing face, content, and construct validity methods. Internal consistency was calculated to assess reliability of the current developed questionnaire. A total of 572 (54.1% female) adults, aged 30.2\xb17.9 years, participated in the study. All items were perceived as relevant and comprehendible by participants. Content validity was confirmed by the panel of experts. The internal consistency, as measured by Cronbach\u2019s alpha coefficients, exceeded the minimum reliability standard of 0.60 for four subscales. The EFA suggested a four-factor construct and the results of the CFA indicated acceptable fit indices for the proposed model. No ceiling effects were observed except for general knowledge (1.2%). Floor effects detected were 0, 1.1, 2.4, and 8.7% for practice, attitude, general knowledge, and nutrition knowledge, respectively. General knowledge had the highest score (79.59\xb114.52) and nutrition knowledge, the lowest score (42.58\xb120.40) among the four sub-scales. Results confirm the initial validity and reliability of the vitamin D-related knowledge, attitude and practice questionnaire. Further investigations in different urban and rural population are recommended.', u'/manuscript/201702.0003/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'Salmonella Typhimurium Induces Cloacitis-Like Symptoms in Zebrafish Larvae', ['Macarena Varas', 'Javiera Ortiz-Severin', 'Andres E. Marcoleta', 'Francisco Diaz-Pascual', 'Miguel L. Allende', 'Carlos A. Santiviago', 'Francisco P. Chavez'], u'February 3 2017', u'Pathogenic Salmonella strains have a set of virulence factors allowing them to generate systemic infections and damage in a variety of hosts. Among these factors, bacterial proteins secreted by specialized systems are used to penetrate the host\u2019s intestinal mucosa, through the invasion and destruction of specialized epithelial M cells in the intestine. On the other hand, numerous studies have demonstrated that humans, as well as experimental animal hosts, respond to Salmonella infection by activating both innate and adaptive immune responses. Here, through live cell imaging of S. Typhimurium infection of zebrafish larvae, we showed that besides the intestinal colonization, a deformed cloacae region and a concomitant accumulation of S. Typhimurium cells was observed upon bacterial infection. The swelling led to a persistent inflammation of infected larvae, although the infection was non-lethal. The in vivo inflammation process was confirmed by the co-localization of GFP-tagged S. Typhimurium with mCherry-tagged neutrophils at 72 hours post exposition. Our live-cell analyses suggest that Salmonella Typhimurium induce cloacitis-like symptoms in zebrafish larvae. \xa0Typhimurium induce cloacitis-like symptoms in zebrafish larvae.', u'/manuscript/201702.0006/v1', [u'Microbiology'], []]
[u'Anticancer Effect of Polyphyllin \u0399 on Colon Cancer Cells through ROS-Dependent Autophagy and G2/M Arrest Induction Mechanisms', ['Si Yu', 'Lijiao Wang', 'Zhixing Cao', 'Daoyin Gong', 'Qianyi Liang', 'Hanting Chen', 'Huizhu Fu', 'Wenwen Wang', 'Xue Tang', 'Zihao Xie', 'Yang He', 'Cheng Peng', 'Yuzhi Li'], u'February 3 2017', u'Polyphyllin \u0399, an important constituent isolated from the rhizoma of Paris polyphyllin, has exhibited preclinical anticancer efficacy in various cancer types. In this study, we performed to investigate the anti-colorectal tumor property of Polyphyllin \u0399 by inducing autophagy and G2/M arrest in human colorectal cancer cells, and to define the potential molecular mechanisms. The anti-colon cancer activity of Polyphyllin \u0399 was assessed using CCK8 assay. Autophagy was monitored by mRFP-GFP-LC3 fluorescence analysis. Cell cycles were measured by flow cytometry. The levels of ROS were measured by flow cytometer and laser confocal microscope analysis. The expressions or activition of LC3-\u2161 and cycle regulatory proteins were detected through western blotting. As shown in our results, Polyphyllin \u0399 significantly inhibited the proliferation of colon cancer cell HCT116. Under a confocal microscope, we observed massive flux of autophagy and large number of autophagy body in many HCT116 cells treated by Polyphyllin \u0399. Next, we found that Polyphyllin \u0399 induces autophagy in a ROS-dependent manner and not related with PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway. Meanwhile, we proved that excessive ROS triggered by Polyphyllin \u0399 also could induce cell cycle arrest at G2/M phase via regulating the expression of cycle regulatory proteins, such as p21, p27, cyclinB1. Collectively, These results provide an interesting discovery about the induction of autophagy and G2/M arrest by Polyphyllin \u0399 administration, and indicated that Polyphyllin \u0399 is an effective and promising candidate to be further developed as therapeutic agents in the treatment of colon cancer.', u'/manuscript/201702.0007/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], []]
[u'Seroprevalence of West Nile Virus among Blood Donors at Central Blood Bank, Khartoum State, Sudan', ['Yousof S. Yousof', 'Salma E. Ahmed', 'Mona H. Mona', 'Maha M. Nour', 'Mahmmoud S. Saleh', 'Mohamed I. Garbi', 'Elmontasir S. Eltayeb'], u'February 3 2017', u'Background: West Nile virus is one of the transfusion transmitted viral infections with worldwide distribution; it can cause severe disorders of the Central Nervous System. Aim: This research aimed to provide information about the seroprevalence of WNV among blood donors at Central Blood Bank, Khartoum State-Sudan. Materials & methods: Ninety sera specimen were randomly collected from blood donors at Central Blood Bank. All collected sera specimen were tested for the presence anti-West Nile virus (IgM & IgG) antibodies by using semi-quantitative indirect ELISA. Results: Out of Ninety blood donor sera, 40 (44.4 %) were reactive for anti-WNV IgG antibody, whereas 2 (2.2%) were reactive for anti-WNV IgM antibody. Conclusion & recommendations: In spite of higher percentage of Blood Donors at Central Blood Bank, Khartoum State-Sudan was exposed to West Nile virus, there were few recent cases. High care should be taken by health authorities for screening of blood donors, particularly when administered to immunocompromised patients.', u'/manuscript/201702.0008/v1', [u'Virology'], []]
[u'Anaphase A: Melting Microtubules Move Chromosomes toward Spindle Poles', ['Charles L. Asbury'], u'February 5 2017', u'The separation of sister chromatids during anaphase is the culmination of mitosis and one of the most strikingly beautiful examples of cellular movement. It consists of two distinct processes: Anaphase A, the movement of chromosomes toward spindle poles via shortening of the connecting fibers, and anaphase B, separation of the two poles from one another via spindle elongation. I focus here on anaphase A chromosome-to-pole movement. The chapter begins by summarizing classical observations of chromosome movements, which support the current understanding of anaphase mechanisms. Live cell fluorescence microscopy studies showed that poleward chromosome movement is associated with disassembly, or \u2018melting\u2019 of the kinetochore-attached microtubule fibers that link chromosomes to poles. Microtubule-marking techniques established that kinetochore-fiber disassembly often occurs through a \u2018pac-man\u2019 mechanism, where tubulin subunits are lost from kinetochore-attached plus ends and the kinetochore appears to consume its microtubule track as it moves poleward. In addition, kinetochore-fiber disassembly in many cells occurs partly through \u2018flux\u2019, where the microtubules flow continuously toward the poles and tubulin subunits are lost from minus ends. Molecular mechanistic models for how load-bearing attachments are maintained to disassembling microtubule ends, and how the forces are generated to drive pac-man and flux-based movements, are discussed.', u'/manuscript/201702.0016/v1', [u'Physiology'], []]
[u'Potential Modes of Intercellular Alpha-Synuclein Transmission', ['Dario Valdinocci', 'Rowan A. W. Radford', 'Sue Maye Siow', 'Roger S. Chung', 'Dean L. Pountney'], u'February 7 2017', u'Intracellular aggregates of the alpha-synuclein protein result in cell loss and dysfunction in Parkinson\u2019s disease and atypical parkinsonism, such as multiple system atrophy and dementia with Lewy bodies. Each of these neurodegenerative conditions, known collectively as alpha-synucleinopathies, may be characterized by a different suite of molecular triggers that initiate pathogenesis. The mechanisms whereby alpha-synuclein aggregates in turn mediate cytotoxicity also remain to be fully elucidated. However, recent studies have implicated the cell-to-cell spread of alpha-synuclein as the major mode of disease propagation between brain regions during disease progression. Here, we review the current evidence for different modes of alpha-synuclein cellular release, movement and uptake, including exocytosis, exosomes, tunnelling nanotubes, glymphatic flow and endocytosis. A more detailed understanding of the major modes by which alpha-synuclein pathology spreads throughout the brain may provide new targets for therapies that halt the progression of disease.', u'/manuscript/201702.0020/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], []]
[u'Microorganisms in Wastewater Collection Systems and Decay Rate of Indicator Bacteria and Virus in Seawater\u2014An Input for Quantitative Microbial Risk Assessment (QMRA)', ['Fasil Ejigu Eregno', 'Ingun Tryland', 'Mette Myrmel', 'Aina Wennberg', 'Anastasiia Oliinyk', 'Mamata Khatri', 'Arve Heistad'], u'February 8 2017', u'Information about the concentration, growth and decay rates of microorganisms in different water sources is crucial for development of quantitative microbial risk assessment (QMRA). There is little or no such information at regional level and little is known about the microbial decay rates at different depths of the marine environment. This study was conducted to investigate the density of faecal indicator bacteria (FIB) in different wastewater conveyance systems, the potential for microbial growth in greywater, and the decay rate of indicator bacteria and pathogenic viruses in seawater samples from different depths. The average concentration (log10 per 100 ml) of Escherichia coli (E. coli) and intestinal enterococci (IE) were 6.7 and 6.1 in blackwater, 6.1 and 3.8 in greywater, and 6.6 and 5.2 in municipal wastewater, respectively. Total coliforms (TC) and E. coli multiplied in greywater for the first 24 hours. Indicator bacteria and viruses were rapidly inactivated at 20 oC in surface seawater, but at 4 oC in deep seawater the infectivity was kept, to a certain degree. Our results indicate that temperature and biological activity of surface seawater are important factors for the decay rate of indicator bacteria and virus.', u'/manuscript/201702.0023/v1', [u'Ecology'], []]
[u'Impact of Lower Screening TSH Cutoff Level on the Increasing Incidence of Congenital Hypothyroidism', ['Violeta Anastasovska', 'Mirjana Kocova'], u'February 8 2017', u'Lower cutoff levels in screening programs have led to an increase in the proportion of detected cases with transient hypothyroidism, leading to increase of the overall incidence of primary congenital hypothyroidism (CH) in several countries. We have performed retrospective evaluation on the data from 251,008 (96.72%) neonates screened for thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level in dried blood spot specimens taken 48 hours after birth, between 2002 and 2015, using DELFIA method. A TSH value of 15 mIU/L was used as the cutoff point until 2010 and 10 mIU/L thereafter. Primary CH was detected in 127 newborns (1/1976) of which 81.1% had permanent and 18.9% had transient CH. The incidence of primary CH was increased from 1/2489 until to 2010 to 1/1585 thereafter (p=0.131). However, the incidence of permanent CH was slightly increased (p=0.922), while the transient CH incidence had 8-fold increasing after lowering the TSH cutoff level (p<0.001). In cases with permanent CH, we observed lower frequency for thyroid dysgenesis (82.7 vs. 66.7%) and higher frequency for normal in-situ thyroid gland (17.3 vs. 33.3%), for the period with reduced TSH cutoff value. Our findings support the impact of lower TSH cutoff on the increasing incidence of congenital hypothyroidism.', u'/manuscript/201702.0025/v1', [u'Pediatrics'], []]
[u'Discovering the Giant Nest Architecture of Grass-Cutting Ants, Atta capiguara (Hymenoptera, Formicidae)', ['Luiz Carlos Forti', 'Ana Paula Protti de Andrade', 'Roberto da Silva Camargo', 'Nadia Caldato', 'Aldenise Alves Moreira'], u'February 9 2017', u'Atta capiguara is a grass-cutting ant species frequently found in Cerrado biome. However, little is known about the giant nest architecture of this ant. In this study, we investigated the architecture of three A. capiguara nests from the fragment of cerrado in Botucatu, S\xe3o Paulo, Brazil. Casts were made of the nests by filling them with cement to permit better visualization of internal structures such as chambers and tunnels. After excavation, the depth and dimensions (length, width, and height) of the chambers were measured. The results showed the typical shape of Atta capiguara nests consisting of mounds of loose soil with unique features resembling a conic section. The fungus chambers were found outside the apparent main part of the nest and were spaced apart and distributed laterally at ground level. The waste chambers were located beneath the largest mound of loose soil. Both the fungus and waste chambers exhibited a sectoral distribution. Our study contributes to a better understanding of the so far unknown nest architecture of the grass-cutting ant A. capiguara.', u'/manuscript/201702.0027/v1', [u'Entomology'], []]
[u'Nanoparticle-Mediated Drug Delivery System for Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension', ['Kazufumi Nakamura', 'Hiromi Matsubara', 'Satoshi Akagi', 'Toshihiro Sarashina', 'Kentaro Ejiri', 'Norifumi Kawakita', 'Masashi Yoshida', 'Toru Miyoshi', 'Atsuyuki Watanabe', 'Nobuhiro NIshii', 'Hiroshi Ito'], u'February 13 2017', u'Nanoparticles have been used as a novel drug delivery system. Drug-incorporated nanoparticles for local delivery might optimize the efficacy and minimize the side effects of drugs. The efficacy and safety of intratracheal administration of prostacyclin analog (beraprost)-incorporated nanoparticles and imatinib, a PDGF-receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor, -incorporated nanoparticles in Sugen-hypoxia-normoxia or monocrotaline rat models of PAH and in human PAH-pulmonary arterial smooth muscle cells have been reported. The use of inhaled drug-incorporated nanoparticles might be a novel approach for treatment of PAH.', u'/manuscript/201702.0036/v1', [u'Cardiology'], []]
[u'Theranostic Probes for Targeting Tumor Microenvironment: An Overview', ['Musafar Gani Sikkandhar', 'Anu Maashaa Nedumaran', 'Roopa Ravichandar', 'Satnam Singh', 'Induja Santhakumar', 'Zheng Cong Goh', 'Sachin Mishra', 'Govindaraju Archunan', 'Balazs Gulyas', 'Parasuraman Padmanabhan'], u'February 13 2017', u'Long gone was the time when tumors were thought to be insular masses of cells, residing independently at specific sites in an organ. Now, researchers gradually realize that tumors interact with the extracellular matrix (ECM), blood vessels, connective tissues and immune cells in their environment, which is now known as the tumor microenvironment (TME). It is found that the interactions between tumors and their surrounding promote tumor growth, invasion and metastasis. The dynamics and diversity of TME cause the tumors to be heterogeneous and thus pose a challenge for cancer diagnosis, drug design and therapy. As TME is significant in enhancing tumor progression, it is vital to identify the different components in the TME. This review explores how different factors in the TME supply tumors with the required growth factors and signaling molecules to proliferate, invade and metastasis. We also examine the development of TME-targeted nanotheranostics over the recent years for cancer therapy, diagnosis and anticancer drug delivery system. This review further discusses the limitations and future perspective of nanoparticle based theranostics when used in combination with current imaging modalities like Optical Imaging, Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and Nuclear Imaging (PET and SPECT).', u'/manuscript/201702.0037/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Biodiversity of Bangladesh', ['Sharif A. Mukul', 'Shekhar R. Biswas', 'A. Z. M. Manzoor Rashid'], u'February 14 2017', u'Biodiversity has become an issue of global anxiety over the past decades due to its rapid decline worldwide. Bangladesh as one of the most densely populated countries in the world is no more exception. The country, although, was once very rich in biodiversity, during the last few decades as a consequence of the rapid reduction in forest area, urbanisation, habitat modification, unsustainable natural resources use and collection and overall climate change it has decreased alarmingly. Of late, the government, as a signatory of various regional and international conservation treaties, has taken various initiatives to improve country\u2019s dwindling biodiversity. This paper reviews the present situation of biodiversity in Bangladesh, management trends and major causes of biodiversity loss. A separate statutory body is fundamental to ensure conservation, sustainable use and equitable sharing of benefits arisen from biodiversity in the country.', u'/manuscript/201702.0045/v1', [u'Ecology'], []]
[u'Ostreolysin A/Pleurotolysin B and Equinatoxins: Structure, Function and Pathophysiological Effects of These Pore-Forming Proteins', ['Robert Frangez', 'Dusan Suput', 'Jordi Molg', 'Evelyne Benoit'], u'February 14 2017', u'Acidic ostreolysin A/pleurotolysin B (OlyA/PlyB, formerly known as ostreolysin (Oly), and basic 20 kDa equinatoxins (EqTs) are cytolytic proteins isolated from the edible mushroom Pleurotus ostreatus and the sea anemone Actinia equine, respectively. Both toxins, although from different sources, share many similar biological activities: (i) colloid-osmotic shock by forming pores in cellular and artificial membranes enriched in cholesterol and sphingomyelin, (ii) increased vascular endothelial wall permeability in vivo and perivascular oedema, (iii) dose-dependent contraction of coronary vessels, (iv) haemolysis with pronounced hyperkalaemia in vivo, (v) bradycardia, myocardial ischemia and ventricular extrasystoles accompanied by progressive fall of arterial blood pressure and respiratory arrest in rodents. Both types of toxins are haemolytic within nanomolar range concentrations, and it seems that hyperkalaemia plays an important role in toxin cardiotoxicity. However, it was observed that the haemolytically more active EqT III is less toxic than EqT I, the most toxic and least haemolytic EqT. In mice, EqT II is more than 30 times more toxic than OlyA/PlyB when applied intravenously. These observations imply that haemolysis with hyperkalaemia is not the sole cause of the lethal activity of both toxins. Additional mechanisms responsible for lethal action of the two toxins are direct effects on heart, coronary vasoconstriction and related myocardial hypoxia. In this review, we appraise the pathophysiological mechanisms related to the chemical structure of OlyA/PlyB and EqTs, as well as their toxicity.', u'/manuscript/201702.0048/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], []]
[u'Dietary Sugars and Endogenous Formation of Advanced Glycation Endproducts: Emerging Mechanisms of Disease', ['Manuela Aragno', 'Raffaella Mastrocola'], u'February 14 2017', u'The rapid increase in metabolic diseases occurred in the last three decades in both industrialized and developing countries has been related to the rise in sugar-added foods and sweetened beverages consumption. An emerging topic in the pathogenesis of metabolic diseases related to modern nutrition is the role of Advanced Glycation Endproducts (AGEs). AGEs can be ingested with high temperature processed foods, but also endogenously formed as consequence of a high dietary sugars intake. Animal models of high sugars consumption, in particular fructose, have reported AGEs accumulation in different tissues in association with peripheral insulin resistance and lipid metabolism alterations. The in vitro observation that fructose is one of the most rapid and effective glycating agent when compared to other sugars has prompted the investigation of the in vivo fructose-induced glycation. In particular, the widespread employment of fructose as sweetener has been ascribed by many experimental and observational studies for the enhancement of lipogenesis and intracellular lipid deposition. Indeed, diet-derived AGEs have been demonstrated to interfere with many cell functions such as lipid synthesis, inflammation, antioxidant defences, and mitochondrial metabolism. Moreover, emerging evidences also in humans suggest that this impact of dietary AGEs on different signalling pathways can contribute to the onset of organ damage in liver, skeletal and cardiac muscle, and brain, affecting not only metabolic control, but global health. Indeed, the here reviewed most recent reports on the effects of high sugars consumption and diet-derived AGEs on human health suggest the need to limit the dietary sources of AGEs, including added sugars, to prevent the development of metabolic diseases and related comorbidities.', u'/manuscript/201702.0047/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'Identification of the Sixth Ig-like Domain of VCAM-1 as a Novel Therapeutic Target in Lung Cancer Cell Invasion', ['Mi Ra Kim', 'Ji Hye Jang', 'Chang Sik Park', 'Taek-Keun Kim', 'Youn-Jae Kim', 'Junho Chung', 'Hyunbo Shim', 'In Hyun Nam', 'Jung Min Han', 'Sukmook Lee'], u'February 15 2017', u'Vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) is closely associated with tumor progression and metastasis. However, the relevance and role of VCAM-1 in lung cancer have not been clearly elucidated. In this study, we found that VCAM-1 was highly overexpressed in lung cancer tissue compared with that of normal lung, and high VCAM-1 expression correlated with poor survival of lung cancer patients. VCAM-1 knockdown reduced invasion in A549 human lung cancer cells, and competitive blocking experiments targeting the Ig-like domain 6 of VCAM-1 (VCAM-1-D6) demonstrated that the VCAM-1-D6 domain was critical for VCAM-1-mediated A549 cell invasion. Next, we developed a human monoclonal antibody specific to human and mouse VCAM-1-D6 (VCAM-1-D6 huMab), which was isolated from a human synthetic antibody library using phage display technology. Finally, we showed that VCAM-1-D6 huMab had a nanomolar affinity for VCAM-1-D6 and that it potently suppressed invasion in A549 and NCI-H1299 lung cancer cell lines. Taken together, these results suggest that VCAM-1-D6 is a novel therapeutic target in VCAM-1-mediated lung cancer invasion and that our newly developed VCAM-1-D6 huMab will be a useful tool for inhibiting VCAM-1-expressing lung cancer cell invasion.', u'/manuscript/201702.0054/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], []]
[u'The Effect of Hydrogen Peroxide on Reducing the Colonization of Legionella spp. in a Hospital Water Network', ['Beatrice Casini', 'Francesco Aquino', 'Michele Totaro', 'Mario Miccoli', 'Irio Galli', 'Laura Manfredini', 'Valentino Serini', 'Anna Laura Costa', 'Benedetta Tuvo', 'Paola Valentini', 'Gaetano Privitera', 'Angelo Baggiani'], u'February 16 2017', u'Objectives: To evaluate the effectiveness of hydrogen peroxide (HP) use in the hospital water network disinfection to control Legionella spp. colonization.Methods: Following the detection of high levels of Legionella contamination in a 136-bed general hospital water network, an HP treatment of the hot water (25 mg/L) was adopted. During a period of 34 months, the effectiveness of HP on Legionella colonization was assessed. Legionella was isolated in accordance with ISO-11731 and identification was carried out by sequencing of the mip gene.Results: Before HP treatment L.pneumophila sg 2-15 was isolated in all sites with a mean count of 9950\xb18279 CFU/L. After one month of HP-treatment, we observed the disappearance of L. pneumophila 2-15, however other Legionella species never cultured before appeared; Legionella pneumophila 1 was isolated in 1 out of 4 sampling sites (2,000 CFU/L) and other non-pneumophila species in all sites (mean load 3,000 \xb12887 CFU/L). Starting from September 2013, HP-treatment was modified adding food-grade polyphosphates and in the following months we observed a progressive reduction of the mean load of all species (p<0.05), until to a substantial disappearing of Legionella colonization.Conclusion: Hydrogen peroxide demonstrated a good efficacy in controlling Legionella. Although in the initial phases of treatment it seemed unable to eliminate all the species, by keeping HP levels to 25 mg/L and adding food-grade polyphosphates, a progressive and complete control of colonisation was obtained.', u'/manuscript/201702.0063/v1', [u'Microbiology'], []]
[u'Oxidation of Human Serum Albumin Exhibits Inter-Individual Variability after an Ultra-Marathon Mountain Race', ['Ypatios Spanidis', 'Alexandros Priftis', 'Dimitrios Stagos', 'George A. Stravodimos', 'Demetres D. Leonidas', 'Demetrios Kouretas'], u'February 17 2017', u'The aim of this study was to examine the oxidation of human serum albumin (HSA) caused by oxidative stress after an exhaustive exercise such as ultra-marathon race. Thus, blood samples from 12 adult runners who underwent a 103 km mountain ultra-marathon race were collected pre- and 24, 48 and 72 h post race. HSA was partially purified using affinity chromatography and then was subjected to Western blot analysis for disulfide dimers determination, indicating oxidation. The results were correlated with those from a previous study in which the same samples were analyzed using different oxidative stress markers and a good correlation with protein carbonyls (PC) at all time points was observed. Moreover there was a significant correlation with static oxidation-reduction potential (sORP) at 24 h, and a negative correlation with capacity oxidation-reduction potential (cORP) at 24 and 48 h. In addition, an individual analysis of albumin dimers exhibited great inter-individual differences. This inter-individual variability in the oxidation of HSA may suggest different interventions (e.g. through diet) in order to confront the effects on athletes\u2019 organism after a strenuous exercise. In conclusion, this study supported the importance of the assessment of albumin dimers as a predictive marker for exercise-induced oxidative stress.', u'/manuscript/201702.0070/v1', [u'Biochemistry'], []]
[u'Plant Responses to Salt Stress: Adaptive Mechanisms', ['Jose Ramon Acosta-Motos', 'Maria Fernanda Ortuno', 'Agustina Bernal-Vicente', 'Pedro Diaz-Vivancos', 'Maria Jesus Sanchez-Blanco', 'Jose Antonio Hernandez'], u'February 22 2017', u'This review deals with the adaptive mechanisms that plants can implement to cope with the challenge of salt stress. Plants tolerant to NaCl implement a series of adaptations to acclimate to salinity, including morphological, physiological and biochemical changes. These changes include increases in the root/canopy ratio and in the chlorophyll content in addition to changes in the leaf anatomy that ultimately lead to preventing leaf ion toxicity, thus maintaining the water status in order to limit water loss and protect the photosynthesis process. Furthermore, we deal with the effect of salt stress on photosynthesis and chlorophyll fluorescence and some of the mechanisms thought to protect the photosynthetic machinery, including the xanthophyll cycle, photorespiration pathway and water-water cycle. Finally, we also provide an updated discussion on salt-induced oxidative stress at the subcellular level and its effect on the antioxidant machinery in both salt-tolerant and salt-sensitive plants. The aim is to extend our understanding of how salinity may affect the physiological characteristics of plants.', u'/manuscript/201702.0083/v1', [u'Plant Sciences'], []]
[u'Metal-Free \u03b1-C(sp3)\u2013H Functionalized Oxidative Cyclization of Tertiary N,N-Diaryl Amino Alcohols: Theoretical Approach for Mechanistic Pathway', ['Zakir Ullah', 'Mihyun Kim'], u'February 23 2017', u'The mechanistic pathway of TEMPO/I2-mediated oxidative cyclization of N,N-diaryl amino alcohols 1 is investigated in this study. Based on our direct empirical experiments, three key intermediates (the aminium radical cation 3, the \u03b1-aminoalkyl radical 4, and the iminium 5), four kind reactive species (radical TEMPO, cationic TEMPO, TEMPO-I and iodo radical) and three kind pathways (1. SET/PCET mechanism, 2. HAT/1,6-H transfer mechanism, 3. Ionic mechanism) were assumed. Under the assumption, nine free energy diagrams are acquired through DFT calculation. From the comparison of the solution phase free energy, some possibility can be excluded and then the chosen plausible mechanisms are concretized with the more stable intermediate 7.', u'/manuscript/201702.0087/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Identification of Drought-Responsive microRNAs from Roots and Leaves of Alfalfa by High-Throughput Sequencing', ['Yue Li', 'Liqiang Wan', 'Shuyi Bi', 'Xiufu Wan', 'Zhenyi Li', 'Jing Cao', 'Zongyong Tong', 'Hongyu Xu', 'Feng He', 'Xianglin Li'], u'February 23 2017', u'Alfalfa, an important legume forage, is an ideal crop for sustainable agriculture and a potential bioenergy plant. Drought, one of the most common environmental stresses, substantially affects plants\u2019 growth, development and productivity. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are newly discovered gene expression regulators that have been linked to several plant stress responses. To elucidate the role of miRNAs in drought stress regulation of alfalfa, a high-throughput sequencing approach was used to analyze 12 small RNA libraries comprising of 4 samples, each with 3 biological replicates. We identified 348 known miRNAs, belonging to 80 miRNA families, from the 12 libraries and 281 novel miRNAs using Mireap software. 18 known miRNAs in roots and 12 known miRNAs in leaves were screened out as drought-responsive miRNAs. Except for miR319d and miR157a which were upregulated under drought stress, the expression pattern of drought-responsive miRNAs were different between roots and leaves in alfalfa. This is the first study discovering miR157a, miR1507, miR3512, miR3630, miR5213, miR5294, miR5368 and miR6173 are drought-responsive miRNAs. Target transcripts of drought-responsive miRNAs were computationally predicted. All 447 target genes for the known miRNAs were predicted using an online tool. This study provides a significant insight on understanding drought-responsive mechanisms of alfalfa.', u'/manuscript/201702.0085/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], []]
[u'The Impact of Pelvic Floor Muscles Exercises with and without Synergistic Muscles on Quality of Life of Women with Stage I Stress Urinary Incontinence', ['Magdalena Ptak', 'Agnieszka Brodowska', 'Sylwester Ciecwiez', 'Iwona Rotter'], u'February 27 2017', u'Stress urinary incontinence (SUI) influences the quality of life of women. The research applied ICIQ LUTS qol (The International Consultation Incontinence Questionnaire Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms quality of life) as a tool to measure the quality of life (QOL) of patients with stage 1 SUI in many areas. 140 perimenopausal women who participated in a urodynamic test at Department of Gynecology, Endocrinology and Gynecologic Oncology, Pomeranian Medical University, Police, Poland in the years 2013-2015 were enrolled in the study. Patients were divided into two groups: A and B. Two questionnaires were applied: the author\u2019s original questionnaire and the standardized ICIQ LUTS qol. Gymnastic plans were recommended 4 times per week for the period of 3 months. The plan for group A included the exercises of pelvic floor muscles (PFM) with the simultaneous tension of the transverse abdominal muscle (TrA) and for group B included the exercises of PMF without TrA. The evaluation of the quality of life of patients with stage 1 SUI with the use of ICIQ LUTS qol among patients from groups A and B after therapy showed a significant improvement in most areas. More impact is observed in the physiotherapy of both PFM with TrA.', u'/manuscript/201702.0097/v1', [u'Urology'], []]
[u'Local Actions of Melatonin in Somatic Cells of the Testis', ['Monica Beatriz Frungieri', 'Ricardo Saul Calandra', 'Soledad Paola Rossi'], u'February 27 2017', u'Environmental darkness signal is transferred from the retina to the pineal gland triggering melatonin secretion. Melatonin influences the synthesis and release of the hypothalamic GnRH and the adenohypophyseal gonadotropin hormones and therefore, regulates testicular function in photoperiodic species. Besides the brain, direct actions of melatonin at the testicular level have also been described. Melatonin released from the pineal gland to the circulation is taken up by peripheral tissues including testes. Testicular synthesis of melatonin has also been reported. The two key somatic cell types in the testis, Leydig and Sertoli cells, express melatonergic receptors. Melatonin acts as a local modulator of the endocrine activity in Leydig cells. In Sertoli cells, melatonin influences the oxidation state and the energy metabolism, and consequently may regulate spermatogenesis. Melatonergic receptors were also described in testicular macrophages and mast cells of infertile patients. Whereas melatonin exerts anti-proliferative and anti-inflammatory effects on testicular macrophages, it provides protective effects against oxidative stress in testicular mast cells. These data pinpoints melatonin as a key player in the regulation of testicular physiology (i.e. steroidogenesis, spermatogenesis) mostly in seasonal breeders. More importantly, melatonin is also involved in the modulation of testicular inflammatory and oxidant/anti-oxidant states in patients with idiopathic infertility.', u'/manuscript/201702.0095/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Role of AA-NAT and TPH1 in the Ghrelin-Dependent Regulation of Melatonin Secretion in Sheep during Different Seasons: An In Vitro Study', ['Katarzyna Kirsz', 'Malgorzata Szczesna', 'Dorota A. Zieba'], u'February 28 2017', u'Several studies suggests that ghrelin (GHRL) has neurobiological effects that extend beyond control of food intake. Our previous results confirmed that GHRL modulates the secretory activity of the pineal gland (PG) through nocturnal melatonin (MEL) secretion in sheep, the seasonally reproductive animals. Here we investigated the effects of GHRL (10 ng/ml) on the expression of enzymes limiting synthesis of MEL, including tryptophan 5-hydroxylase 1 (TPH1), serotonin N-acetyltransferase (AA-NAT) and its phosphorylated form p31T-AA-NAT in sheep PG explants (n = 72) during the 4-hour incubation in a gas-liquid interface, at a short (SD) and long (LD) photoperiods. After each hour of incubation selected explants were frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at -80\xb0C for subsequent analysis (real-time PCR, western-blotting, ELISA). Results show that GHRL regulates nightly MEL secretion in a TPH1-independent manner. The factor modulating GHRL activity was photoperiod. During SD photoperiod GHRL significantly reduced the expression of p31T-AA-NAT, AA-NAT and inhibited MEL secretion from PG explants. Whereas, during LD photoperiod no effect of GHRL on MEL secretion and expression of examined enzymes was noted. Studies indicate that GHRL directly affects PG under in vitro conditions and causes MEL secretion in animals which exhibit seasonality in reproductive and metabolic processes.', u'/manuscript/201702.0101/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Advanced Glycation Endproducts form During Ovalbumin Digestion in the Presence of Fructose', ['Alejandro Gugliucci', 'Yasmin Bains', 'Russell Caccavello'], u'February 28 2017', u'One mechanism by which fructose could exert deleterious effect in metabolism and inflammation is via its potency vis-\xe0-vis de Maillard reaction. We employed simulated stomach and duodenum digestion of ovalbumin to test the hypothesis that indeed AGEs are formed by fructose during simulated digestion of an ubiquitous food protein with intrinsic allergenic potential and under model physiological conditions. Methods: OVA was subjected to simulated gastric and intestinal digestion using standard models, in presence of fructose or glucose (0-100 mM). Peptide fractions were analyzed by fluorescence spectroscopy and intensity at Excitation: \u03bb370 nm, Emission: \u03bb 440nm. Results: AGE adducts form between fructose and OVA which can be found in peptide fractions (< 5 kDa) at times (30 min) and concentration ranges (10 mM) plausibly found in the intestines, whereas no reaction occurs with glucose. The reaction is inhibited by chlorogenic acid at concentrations compatible with those found in the gut. The reaction is inhibited by AG, a specific antiglycation agent. Conclusion: Our proof of principle study shows that fructose-AGE formation on an ubiquitous allergenic protein indeed occurs in one hour and thereby may pave the way for the study of yet another mechanism by which the excess fructose in our Western diets is contributing to disease: intestinal AGE formation, absorption and RAGE engagement.', u'/manuscript/201702.0099/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'MicroRNAs in the Communication between Cancer Associated Fibroblasts (CAF) and Cancer Cells', ['Maren Schoepp', 'Anda Jana Stroese', 'Joerg Haier'], u'February 28 2017', u'Tumor microenvironment including cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAF) has developed as an important target for understanding tumor progression, clinical prognosis and treatment responses of cancer. Cancer cells appear to transform normal fibroblasts (NF) into CAFs involving direct cell-cell communication and epigenetic regulations. This review summarizes the current understanding on miR involvement in cancer cell \u2013 tumor environment/stroma communication, transformation of NFs into CAFs, their involved targets and signaling pathways in these interactions; and clinical relevance of CAF-related miR expression profiles. There is evidence that miRs have very similar roles in activating hepatic (HSC) and pancreatic stellate cells (PSC) as part of precancerous fibrotic diseases. In summary, deregulated miRs affect various intracellular functional complexes, such as transcriptional factors, extracellular matrix, cytoskeleton, EMT/MET regulation, soluble factors, tyrosine kinase and G-protein signaling, apoptosis and cell cycle & differentiation, but also formation and composition of the extracellular microenvironment. These processes result in the clinical appearance of desmoplasia involving CAFs and fibrosis characterized by deregulated stellate cells. In addition, modulated release of soluble factors can act as (auto)activating feedback loop for transition of NFs into their pathological counterparts. Furthermore, epigenetic communication between CAFs and cancer cells may confer to cancer specific functional readouts and transition of NF into their pathological counterparts. MiR related epigenetic regulation with many similarities should be considered as key factor in development of cancer and fibrosis specific environment.', u'/manuscript/201702.0098/v1', [u'Oncology & Oncogenics'], []]
[u'Fructose Consumption in the Development of Obesity and the Effects of Different Protocols of Physical Exercise on the Hepatic Metabolism', ['Rodrigo M. Pereira', 'Jose Diego Botezelli', 'Kellen Cristina Da Cruz Rodrigues', 'Dennys Esper Cintra', 'Jose Rodrigo Pauli', 'Adelino Adelino Sanchez Ramos  da Sanchez', 'Eduardo Rochette Ropelle', 'Leandro P. de Moura'], u'February 28 2017', u'Fructose consumption has been growing exponentially and, concomitant with this, the increase in the incidence of obesity and associated complications has followed the same behavior. Studies indicate that fructose may be a carbohydrate with greater obesogenic potential than other sugars. In this context, the liver seems to be a key organ for understanding the deleterious health effects promoted by fructose consumption. Fructose promotes complications in glucose metabolism, accumulation of triacylglycerol in the hepatocytes and alterations in the lipid profile, which, associated with an inflammatory response and alterations in the redox state, will imply a systemic picture of insulin resistance. However, physical exercise has been indicated for the treatment of several chronic diseases. In this review, we show how each exercise protocol (aerobic, strength or a combination of both) promote improvements in the obesogenic state created by fructose consumption as an improvement in the serum and liver lipid profile (HDL increase and decrease TG and LDL levels) and a reduction of markers of inflammation caused by an excess of fructose. Therefore, it is concluded that the practice of aerobic physical exercise, strength or a combination of both is essential for attenuating the complications developed by the consumption of fructose.', u'/manuscript/201702.0103/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], []]
[u'Calcium Silicate/Chitosan-Coated Electrospun Poly (lactic acid) Fibers for Bone Tissue Engineering', ['Chu-Jung Su', 'Ming-Gene Tu', 'Li-Ju Wei', 'Tuan-Ti Hsu', 'Chia-Tze Kao', 'Tsui-Han Chen', 'Tsui-Hsien Huang'], u'March 1 2017', u'Electrospinning is the versatile technique to generate large quantities of micro- or nano-fibers from a wide variety of shapes and sizes of polymer. Natural bone is a hierarchically composites with the dispersion of inorganic ceramic along organic polymer. The aim of this study, the electrospun poly (lactic acid) (PLA) mats coated with chitosan (CH) and calcium silicate (CS) powder were fabricated. The morphology, chemical composition, and surface properties of CS/CH-PLA composites were characterized by scanning electron microscopy, X-ray diffraction, and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy. In vitro, the CS/CH-coated PLA mats increased the formation of apatite on the surface when soaking in cell cultured medium. During culture, the adhesion and proliferation of the human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) cultured on CS/CH-PLA were significantly promoted relative to those on PLA. Collagen I and fibronectin levels and promoted cell adhesion were observed upon an increase in CS content. Further, compared to PLA mats without CS/CH, CS10 and CS15 mats markedly enhanced the proliferation of hMSCs as well as their osteogenesis properties, which was characterized by bone-related gene expression. Our results demonstrated that the biodegradable and electroactive CS/CH-PLA mats had potential application as an ideal candidate for bone tissue engineering. Together, findings from this study clearly demonstrated that PLLA-C2S composite scaffold may function as an ideal candidate for bone tissue engineering.', u'/manuscript/201703.0011/v1', [u'Dentistry'], []]
[u'Paeoniflorin Suppressed High Glucose Induced Retinal Microglia Activation via Inhibition of TLR-4/NF-KB/MMP-9 Pathway through Upregulation of SOCS-3', ['Su-hua Zhu', 'Bing-Qian Liu', 'Maojuan Hao', 'Yi-Xin Fan', 'Cheng Qian', 'Peng Teng', 'Xiao-Wei Zhou', 'Liang Hu', 'Wen-tao Liu', 'Zhi-lan Yuan', 'Qing-ping Li'], u'March 1 2017', u'Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is a serious-threatening complication of diabetes and urgently needed to be treated. Evidence has accumulated indicating that microglia within retinal plays a critical role in DR. Microglial matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP-9) has an important role in destruction the integrity of blood-retinal barrier (BRB) associate with the development of DR. Paeoniflorin, a monoterpene glucoside, has a potent immunomodulatory effect on microglia. We hypothesized that paeoniflorin could significantly suppress microglial MMP-9 activation induced by high glucose and further relieve DR. BV2 cells were used to investigate the effects and mechanism of paeoniflorin. The activation of MMP-9 was measured by gelatin zymography. Cell signaling was measured by western blot assay and immunofluorescence assay .High glucose increased the activation of MMP-9 in BV2 cells, which was abolished by HMGB1, TLR4, p38 MAPK and NF-\u03baB inhibition. Phosphorylation of p38 MAPK induced by high glucose was decreased by TLR4 inhibition in BV2 cells. Paeoniflorin induced HSP70 and SOCS3 expression, and reduced MMP-9 activation in BV2 cells. The effect of paeoniflorin on SOCS3 was abolished by TLR4 inhibitor. In STZ-induced diabetes mice, paeoniflorin induced SOCS3 expression and reduced MMP-9 activation. Paeoniflorin suppressed STZ-induced IBA1 and IL-1\u03b2 expression, and decreased STZ-induced high blood glucose level. Paeoniflorin induced microglial SOCS3 expression through HSP70/TLR4/NF-\u03baB signaling pathway to reduced MMP-9 in DR prevention.', u'/manuscript/201703.0008/v1', [u'Ophthalmology'], []]
[u'Clinical Prediction of Suicide and Undetermined Death. A Pseudo-Prospective Clinical and Medico-Legal Study of Substance Abusers', ['Louise Bradvik', 'Mats Berglund', 'Peter Lowenhielm'], u'March 1 2017', u'Objective: To give aspects of prediction of suicide and death of undetermined intent. Method: All consecutive, autopsied patients during 1993 to 1997 inclusive who had been in contact with Addiction Centre in Malm\xf6 from 1968 and onwards were investigated. The staff was asked, shortly after autopsy before they knew of the manner of death, if they thought the patient had committed suicide. The case records were blindly evaluated and toxicological autopsy findings for alcohol in blood samples investigated. Results: The specificity of the prediction was (83%) and significantly more often correct than the sensitivity which was only 45% for suicide and for suicide/death of undetermined intent 93% versus 39%. Suicidal communication was more often considered non-serious before death of undetermined intent than before suicide. The former could be predicted by ideation but not by suicide attempt reported in case records in contrast to suicide, which was predicted by both. The undetermined group also showed higher levels of alcohol in blood at autopsy. Conclusion: More serious clinical investigation of suicidal feelings, which may be hidden and not taken seriously, and treatment of alcohol use disorders appear urgent in the efforts to prevent suicide.', u'/manuscript/201703.0005/v1', [u'Psychiatry & Mental Health studies'], []]
[u'Purification of Polymer-Grade Fumaric Acid from Fermented Spent Sulfite Liquor', ['Diogo Figueira', 'Joao Cavalheiro', 'Bruno Sommer Ferreira'], u'March 1 2017', u'Fumaric acid is a chemical building block with many applications, namely in the polymer industry. The fermentative production of fumaric acid from renewable feedstock is a promising and sustainable alternative to petroleum-based chemical synthesis. The use of existing industrial side-streams as raw-material within biorefineries potentially enable production costs competitive against current chemical processes, while preventing the use of refined sugars competing with food and feed uses and avoiding purposely grow crops requiring large areas of arable land. However, most industrial side streams contain a diversity of molecules that will add complexity to the purification of fumaric acid from the fermentation broth. A process for the recovery and purification of fumaric acid from complex fermentation medium containing spent sulfite liquor (SSL) as carbon source was developed and is herein described. A simple two-stage precipitation procedure involving separation unit operations, pH and temperature manipulation and polishing through the removal of contaminants with activated carbon allowed the recovery of fumaric acid with 68.3% recovery yield with specifications meeting the requirements of the polymer industry. Further, process integration opportunities were implemented that allowed minimizing the generation of waste streams containing fumaric acid which enabled increasing the yield to 81.4% while keeping the product specifications.', u'/manuscript/201703.0004/v1', [u'Biotechnology'], []]
[u'Enhanced Plant Performance in Cicer arietinum L. due to the Addition of Combination of Plant Growth Promoting Bacteria', ['Maria Perez-Fernandez', 'Valentine Alexander'], u'March 2 2017', u'Six bacterial strains with differing abilities to produce varying concentrations of Indole Acetic Acid were tested individually and in consortia for plant growth promoting and fitness related traits of Cicer arietinum. In all experiments the presence of the nitrogen fixer Mesorhizobium ciceri resulted in increased biomass production.\xa0 In the absence of this strain, IAA Psedomonas putida and Bacillus megaterium hinder plant growth and fitness related traits. The application of mixes of the three strains always resulted in better plant performance when M. ciceri was present. Whereas P. putida has a noticeable plant growth-promoting effect B. megaterium resulted less effective. The low levels of IAA produced by the selected strains had a significantly greater positive effect on plant biomass accumulation, flower, pods and seed production as well as on total plant nitrogen and nitrogen concentration in seed than high IAA producer strains.', u'/manuscript/201703.0018/v1', [u'Agricultural Sciences & Agronomy'], []]
[u'Proteomic Comparative Analysis of Pregnancy Serum Facilitating Hepatitis E Virus Replication in Hepatoma Cells', ['Yi Li', 'Yanhong Bi', 'Wenhai Yu', 'Chenchen Yang', 'Jue Wang', 'Feiyan Long', 'Yunlong Li', 'Fen Huang', 'Xiuguo Hua'], u'March 6 2017', u'Hepatitis E virus (HEV) is a common cause of acute hepatitis worldwide, accounting for approximately 25% of deaths among pregnant women. We previously reported that pregnancy serum facilitates HEV replication in vitro. However, the differences in host cells with HEV infection induced by pregnancy serum and fetal bovine serum (FBS) are unclear. In this study, differentially expressed proteins were identified in HEV-infected hepatoma cells (HepG2) supplemented with different sera by using isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation. Proteomic analysis indicated that HEV infection significantly induced 1014 differentially expressed proteins in HEV-infected HepG2 cells when supplemented with FBS compared with pregnancy serum. Further validation by Western blot confirmed that filamin A, heat-shock proteins 70 and 90, Cytochrome c, and Thioredoxin were associated with HEV infection. This comparative analysis provides an important basis to further investigate HEV pathogenesis in pregnant women and HEV replication.', u'/manuscript/201703.0025/v1', [u'Animal Sciences & Zoology'], []]
[u'Inflammatory Bacteriome Featuring Fusobacterium nucleatum and Pseudomonas aeruginosa Identified in Association with Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma', ['Nezar Noor Al-hebshi', 'Akram Thabet Nasher', 'Mohamed Yousef Maryoud', 'Husham E. Homeida', 'Tsute Chen', 'Ali Mohamed Idria', 'Newell W. Johnson'], u'March 6 2017', u'Studies on the possible association between bacteria and oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) remain inconclusive, largely due to methodological variations/limitations. The objective of this study was to characterize the species composition as well as functional attributes of the bacteriome associated with OSCC. DNA obtained from 20 fresh OSCC biopsies (cases) and 20 deep-epithelium swabs (matched control subjects) were sequenced for the V1-V3 region using Illumina\u2019s 2x300 bp chemistry. High quality, non-chimeric merged reads were classified to species level using a prioritized BLASTN-algorithm. Downstream analyses were performed using QIIME, PICRUSt, and LEfSe. Fusobacterium nucleatum subsp. polymorphum was the most significantly overrepresented species in the tumors followed by Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Campylobacter sp. Oral taxon 44, while Streptococcus mitis, Rothia mucilaginosa and Haemophilus parainfluenzae were the most significantly abundant in the controls. Functionally, genes involved in bacterial mobility, flagellar assembly, bacterial chemotaxis and LPS synthesis were enriched in the tumors while those responsible for DNA repair and combination, purine metabolism, phenylalanine, tyrosine and tryptophan biosynthesis, ribosome biogenesis and glycolysis/gluconeogenesis were significantly associated with the controls. This is the first epidemiological evidence for association of F. nucleatum and P. aeruginosa with OSCC. Functionally, an \u201cinflammatory bacteriome\u201d is enriched in OSSC.', u'/manuscript/201703.0024/v1', [u'Oncology & Oncogenics'], []]
[u'Differences in the Bacteriome of Smokeless Tobacco Products with Different Oral Carcinogenicity: Compositional and Predicted Functional Analysis', ['Nezar Noor Al-hebshi', 'Fahd Ali Alharbi', 'Mohammed Mahri', 'Tsute Chen'], u'March 6 2017', u'Smokeless tobacco (ST) products vary significantly in their oral carcinogenicity. Much is known about the differences in chemical, but not bacterial, constituents of these products. In this study, we explore the composition and function of the bacteriome in ST products from 4 countries using q-PCR and 16S rRNA-based next generation sequencing. The bacterial load (16S rRNA copies/gram) was lowest in Swedish snus (3.4E+6) and highest in Yemeni shammah (6.6E+11). A total of 491 species-level taxa, many of which are potentially novel, belonging to 178 genera and 11 phyla were identified. Species richness and diversity were highest for Swedish snus and lowest for Yemeni shammah. Bacillus, Paenibacillus, and Oceanobacillus spp. were the most abundant in American snuff; species of Pseudomonas, Massilia, Propionibacterium, Puniceispirillum and Gloeothece predominated in Swedish snus. In Sudanese toombak, Facklamia, Desemzia, Atopostipes and Lysinibacillus spp. accounted for the majority of the bacteriome. Yemeni shammah exclusively contained Bacillus spp. PICRUSt functional prediction showed that genes encoding cadmium/zinc and nickel transport systems were enriched in the presumptively \u201chigh carcinogenicity\u201d products. The bacteriome of ST products thus differed qualitatively, quantitatively and functionally. The relevance of these differences, particularly with respect to nickel and cadmium, to oral carcinogenesis warrants further investigation.', u'/manuscript/201703.0030/v1', [u'Oncology & Oncogenics'], []]
[u'Self-Referential Encoding on Modules of Anticodon Pairs\u2014Roots of the Biological Flow System', ['Romeu Cardoso Guimaraes'], u'March 6 2017', u'The proposal that the genetic code was formed on the basis of protein synthesis directed by tRNA dimers is reviewed and updated. The tRNAs paired through the anticodon loops are an indication on the process. Dimers are considered mimics of the ribosomes \u2013 structures that hold tRNAs together and facilitate the transferase reaction, and of the translation process \u2013 anticodons are at the same time codons for each other. The primitive protein synthesis system gets stabilized when the product peptides are able to bind the producers therewith establishing a self-stimulating production cycle. The chronology of amino acid encoding starts with Glycine and Serine, indicating the metabolic support of the Glycine-Serine C1-assimilation pathway, which is also consistent with evidence on origins of bioenergetics mechanisms. Since it is not possible to reach for substrates simpler than C1 and compounds in the identified pathway are apt for generating the other central metabolic routes, it is considered that protein synthesis is the beginning and center of a succession of sink-effective mechanisms that drive the formation and evolution of the metabolic flow system. Plasticity and diversification of proteins construct the cellular system following the orientation given by the flow and implementing it. Nucleic acid monomers participate in bioenergetics and the polymers are conservative memory systems for the synthesis of proteins. Protoplasmic fission is the final sink-effective mechanism, part of cell reproduction, guaranteeing that proteins don\u2019t accumulate to saturation, which would trigger inhibition.', u'/manuscript/201703.0031/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], []]
[u'Melatonin Reduces Angiogenesis in Serous Papillary Ovarian Carcinoma of Ethanol-Preferring Rats', ['Luiz Gustavo De Almeida Chuffa', 'Yohan Ricci Zonta', 'Marcelo Martinez', 'Isabel Cristina Cherici Camargo', 'Raquel Fantin Domeniconi', 'Luiz Antonio Lupi Junior', 'Patricia Fernanda Felipe Pinheiro', 'Russel J. Reiter', 'Francisco Eduardo Martinez'], u'March 6 2017', u'Angiogenesis is a hallmark of ovarian cancer (OC) it promotes rapid cell growth and the associated metastasis. Identifying new bioactive compounds to target angiogenesis may provide valuable paradigms as therapeutic strategies. Melatonin is a well-characterized indoleamine that possesses important anti-angiogenic properties in a set of aggressive solid tumors. Herein, we evaluated the role of melatonin therapy on the angiogenic signaling pathway in OC of an ethanol-preferring rat model that mimics the same pathophysiological conditions occurring in women. OC was chemically induced with a single injection of 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene (DMBA) under the ovarian bursa. After the rats developed serous papillary OC, half of the animals received i.p. injections of melatonin (200 \xb5g/100 g body weight/day) for 60 days. Serum levels of melatonin were higher following therapy, and the expression of its receptor MT1R was significantly increased in OC-bearing rats, regardless of ethanol intake. TGFB1, a transforming growth factor-beta1, was reduced only after melatonin treatment. Importantly, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) was severely reduced after melatonin therapy in animals given or not given ethanol. Conversely, the levels of VEGF receptor 1 (VEGFR1) was diminished after ethanol consumption, regardless of melatonin therapy, and VEGFR2 was only reduced following melatonin. Hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1\u03b1 was augmented with ethanol consumption, and notably, melatonin significantly reduced their levels. Collectively, our results suggest that melatonin attenuates angiogenesis in OC of an animal model of ethanol consumption; this provides a possible complementary therapeutic opportunity for concurrent OC chemotherapy.', u'/manuscript/201703.0026/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], []]
[u'Response of Leaf-Level Gas Exchange and Hydraulic Conductance on a Typical Subtropical Tree Species (Osmanthus fragrans) to a Severe Summer Drought', ['Cicheng Zhang', 'Haude Guan', 'Xiaoyan Li', 'Guang Han', 'Xinping Zhang'], u'March 8 2017', u'Increasing drought frequency and intensity are considered to be a driven factor for recent declines in terrestrial ecosystem productivity. Therefore, knowledge of how tree species respond to drought is critical for modeling and predicting the impacts of climate change on forest and woodland ecosystems. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of a severe summer drought on the performance of a subtropical evergreen tree species (Osmanthus fragrans) based on field measurements, including stem water potential, sap flow, and leaf gas exchange. The results show that drought stress posed a significant consequence on leaf gas exchange, and this influence come from combined effect of decreased soil water potential and enhanced vapor pressure deficit (VPD) during the drought period. Leaf transpiration shows a similar behavior to the carbon assimilation in terms of its response to soil moisture condition, but effect of VPD are opposite. Daily maximum water use efficiency shows a parabolic curve in response to soil water potential \u03a8pd. The threshold of \u03a8pd for the daily maximum WUE is around -1.5 MPa for WUE. These results provide useful information for understanding ecosystem responses to seasonal droughts in humid climate zones.', u'/manuscript/201703.0046/v1', [u'Forestry'], []]
[u'Oral Mucositis: Melatonin Gel an Effective New Treatment', ['Ahmed E Abdel-Moneim', 'Ana Guerra-Librero', 'Javier Florido', 'Ying-Qiang Shen', 'Beatriz Fernandez-Gil', 'Dario Acuna-Castroviejo', 'Germaine Escames'], u'March 9 2017', u'The current treatment for cervico-facial cancer involves radio and/or chemotherapy. Unfortunately, cancer therapies can lead to local and systemic complications such as mucositis, which is the most common dose-dependent complication in the oral cavity and gastrointestinal tract. Mucositis can cause a considerably reduced quality of life in cancer patients already suffering from physical and psychological exhaustion. However, melatonin, whose role in the treatment of mucositis has recently been investigated, offers an effective alternative therapy in the prevention and/or management of radio and/or chemotherapy-induced mucositis. This review focuses on the pathobiology and management of mucositis in order to improve the quality of cancer patients\u2019 lives.', u'/manuscript/201703.0052/v1', [u'Oncology & Oncogenics'], []]
[u'Evaluation of Bent Trees in Juvenile Teak (Tectona grandis L.f.) Plantations in Costa Rica: Effects on Tree Morphology and Wood Properties', ['Nancy Guzman', 'Roger Moya', 'Olman Murillo'], u'March 13 2017', u'Bent trees have been observed during the early years in juvenile plantations (less than 5 years-old) of Tectona grandis in Costa Rica. The relationship between bending and the morphological characteristics of the trees was explored. An evaluation of bent trees was conducted in six juvenile plantations (8, 17, 27, 28, 31, and 54 months old) of Tectona grandis. Site 1 with 8-month-old plantations did not display any relationship with any tree morphological variable (diameter, height, and crown weight of tree), whereas for the sites 2, 3, and 4 with 17-, 27-, and 28-month-old plantations, respectively, all the tree morphological variables were statistically correlated with the bent trees. A multiple regression analysis showed that the most influential variables were height to crown base, crown weight, diameter, and total height of the tree. An evaluation of the bending risk factor (RF) was correlated with the height to crown base, crown weight, and form factor. The modulus of elasticity and chemical compositions of bent trees differed from those of straight trees. The causes of tree bending are complex, involving, among other factors, the morphology of the trees, plantation conditions, and other factors specific to the xylem, such as the specific gravity, modulus of elasticity, and presence of calcium and magnesium in the wood.', u'/manuscript/201703.0071/v1', [u'Forestry'], []]
[u'Detecting Breast Cancer with a Dual-Modality Device', ['Kamila Padia', 'Tania S. Douglas', 'Lydia L. Cairncross', 'Roland V. Baasch', 'Christopher L. Vaughan'], u'March 14 2017', u'Although mammography has been the gold standard for early detection of breast cancer, if a woman has dense breast tissue, a false negative diagnosis may occur. Breast ultrasound, whether hand-held or automated, is a useful adjunct to mammography but adds extra time and cost. The primary aim was to demonstrate that our second-generation Aceso system, which combines full-field digital mammography (FFDM) and automated breast ultrasound (ABUS) in a single platform, is able to produce improved quality images that provide clinically meaningful results. Aceso was first tested using two industry standards: a CDMAM phantom to assess the FFDM images; and the CIRS 054GS phantom to evaluate the ABUS images. In addition, 25 women participated in a clinical trial: 14 were healthy volunteers while 11 were patients referred by the breast clinic at Groote Schuur Hospital. The CDMAM phantom results showed the FFDM results were better than EUREF\u2019s standard of \u201cacceptable\u201d and were approaching \u201cachievable\u201d. The ABUS results showed lateral and axial spatial resolution of 0.5 mm and adequate depth penetration of 80 mm. Our second-generation Aceso system, with its improved quality of clinical FFDM and ABUS images, has demonstrated its potential for early detection of breast cancer in a busy clinic.', u'/manuscript/201703.0080/v1', [u'Oncology & Oncogenics'], []]
[u'Sodium and Potassium Intake in Healthy Adults in Thessaloniki Greater Metropolitan Area\u2014The SING (Salt Intake in Northern Greece) Study', ['Eleni Vasara', 'Georgios Marakis', 'Joao Breda', 'Petros Skepastianos', 'Maria Hassapidou', 'Anthony Kafatos', 'Nikolaos Rodopaios', 'Alexandra A. Koulouri', 'Francesco P. Cappuccio'], u'March 14 2017', u'A reduction in population sodium (as salt) consumption is one of the most cost-effective strategies to reduce the burden of cardiovascular disease and it is a global health priority. High potassium intake is also recommended to reduce cardiovascular disease. To establish effective policies for setting targets and monitoring effectiveness within each country, the current level of consumption should be known. Greece lacks data on actual sodium and potassium intakes. The aim of the present study was therefore to assess dietary salt (using sodium as biomarker) and potassium intakes in a sample of healthy adults in northern Greece and to determine whether adherence to a Mediterranean diet is related to different sodium intakes or sodium-to-potassium ratio. A cross-sectional survey was carried out in Thessaloniki greater metropolitan area (northern Greece) (n=252, aged 18-75 years, 45.2% males). Participants\u2019 dietary sodium and potassium intakes were determined by 24h urinary sodium and potassium excretions. In addition, we estimated their adherence to Mediterranean diet by the use of an 11-item MedDietScore (range 0-55). The mean sodium excretion was 175 (SD 72) mmol/day, equivalent to 4,220 (1,745) mg of sodium or 10.7 (4.4) g of salt per day and potassium excretion was 65 (25) mmol/day, equivalent to 3,303 (1,247) mg/day. Men had higher sodium and potassium excretions compared to women. Only 5.6% of the sample had salt intake <5g/d, which is the target intake recommended by the WHO. Mean sodium-to-potassium intake ratio was 1.34 (0.51). There was no significant difference in salt or potassium intake or their ratio across MedDietScore quartiles. No significant relationships were found between salt intake and adherence to Mediterranean diet, suggesting that the perception of the health benefits of the Mediterranean diet does not hold when referring to salt consumption. These results suggest the need for a larger nation-wide survey on salt intake in Greece and underline the importance of continuation of salt reduction initiatives in Greece.', u'/manuscript/201703.0079/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'Effects of Forest Therapy on Depressive Symptoms among Adults: A Systematic Review', ['Insook Lee', 'Heeseung Choi', 'Kyung-Sook Bang', 'Sungjae Kim', 'MinKyung Song', 'Buhyun Lee'], u'March 14 2017', u'The purpose of this study was to systematically review forest therapy programs designed to decrease the level of depression among adults and subsequently identify the gaps in the literature. This systematic review was conducted in accordance with the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines. The authors independently screened full-text articles from various databases using the following criteria: 1) intervention studies assessing the effects of forest therapy on depression in adults aged 18 years and over; 2) studies including at least one control group or condition; 3) been peer-reviewed; and 4) been published either in English or Korean before July 2016. The Scottish Intercollegiate Guideline Network (SIGN) measurement tool was used to assess the risk of bias in each trial. In the final sample, a total of 28 articles (English: 13, Korean: 15) were included in the present systematic review. This review concluded that forest therapy is one of the emerging and effective interventions for decreasing the level of depression in adults. However, the studies included in this review lacked methodological rigor. Future studies assessing the long-term effect of forest therapy on depression using rigorous study designs are needed.', u'/manuscript/201703.0077/v1', [u'Nursing & Health Studies'], []]
[u'The Relation between Frequency of E-Cigarette Use and Frequency and Intensity of Cigarette Smoking among South Korean Adolescents', ['Jung Ah Lee', 'Sungkyu Lee', 'Hong-Jun Cho'], u'March 14 2017', u'Introduction The prevalence of adolescent electronic cigarette (e-cigarette) use has increased in most countries. This study determines the relation between the frequency of e-cigarette use and the frequency and intensity of cigarette smoking. Furthermore, it evaluates the association between the reasons for e-cigarette use and the frequency of its use. Materials and Methods Participants were 68,043 middle and high school students aged 13\u201318 years from the 2015 Korean Youth Risk Behavior Web-Based Survey. Of the 68,043 participants, we analyzed 6,655 adolescents with an experience of e-cigarette use. Results The prevalence of ever using and current (past 30 days) use of e-cigarettes was 10.1% and 3.9%, respectively. Of the ever e-cigarette users, approximately 40% used e-cigarettes for \u22651/month and 8.1% used e-cigarettes daily. Daily e-cigarettes users were 10 times greater among daily cigarette smokers than among cigarette users for <1/month (18.1% vs. 1.8%) and 16 times more prevalent among those smoking \u226520 cigarettes/day than among those smoking <1 cigarette/month (38.9% vs. 2.4%). The most common reason for e-cigarette use was curiosity (22.9%), followed by less harmful than conventional cigarettes (18.9%), smoking cessation (13.1%), and indoor use (10.7%). Curiosity was the most common reason among less frequent e-cigarette users; however, smoking cessation and indoor use were the most common reasons among more frequent users. Conclusions Results showed a positive relation between frequency or intensity of conventional cigarette smoking and frequency of e-cigarette use among Korean adolescents, and frequency of e-cigarette use differed according to the reason for the use of e-cigarettes.', u'/manuscript/201703.0074/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Comparative Physicochemical and Microbiological Qualities of Source and Stored Household Waters in Some Selected Communities in Southwestern Nigeria', ['Mary A. Bisi-Johnson', 'Kehinde A. Adediran', 'Saheed A. Akinola', 'Elizabeth O. Popoola', 'Anthony I. Okoh'], u'March 14 2017', u'In this study, we evaluated the physicochemical and microbial qualities of source and stored household waters in some communities in Southwestern Nigeria using standard methods. Compared parameters include physicochemical constituents; Temperature (T), pH, Total Dissolved Solids (TDS), Total Hardness (TH), Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD), Magnesium ion (Mg2+) and Calcium ion (Ca2+) and microbiological parameters included Total Coliform Counts (TC), Faecal Coliform Counts (FC), Fungal Counts (Fung C), Heterotrophic Plate Counts (HPC). Comparing Stored and Source samples, the mean values of some physicochemical parameters of most of the stored water samples significantly (P<0.05) exceeded that of Sources and ranged in the following order: T (15.3\xb10.3oC - 28.3\xb10.5oC), pH (6.4\xb10.1 - 7.6\xb10.1), TDS (192.1\xb111.1 ppm - 473.7\xb127.9 ppm), TH (10.6\xb11.7 mg/L - 248.6\xb118.6 mg/L), BOD (0.5\xb10.0 mg/L - 3.2\xb10.3 mg/L), Mg2+ (6.5\xb12.4 mg/L - 29.1\xb13.2 mg/L) and Ca2+ (6.5\xb12.4 mg/L - 51.6\xb14.4 mg/L). The mean microbial counts obtained from microbial comparison of different points (Stored and Source) of collection showed that most of the stored water had counts significantly exceeding (P<0.05) those of the source water samples (cfu/100 mL) which ranged as follows: TC (3.1\xb11.5 - 156.8\xb142.9), FC (0.0\xb10.0 - 64.3\xb114.2) and HPC (47.8\xb112.1 - 266.1\xb112.2) across all sampled communities. Also, the predominant isolates recovered from the samples were identified as Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumonia, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Enterobacter aerogenes, Aspergillus spp, Mucor spp, Rhizopus spp and Candida spp. The presence of these pathogenic and potentially pathogenic organisms in the waters and the high counts of the indicator organisms suggest the waters to be a threat to public health.', u'/manuscript/201703.0082/v1', [u'Microbiology'], []]
[u'Deciphering microRNAs and Their Associated Hairpin Precursors in a Non-Model Plant, Abelmoschus esculentus', ['Kavitha Velayudha Vimala Kumar', 'Nagesh Srikakulam', 'Priyavathi Padbhanabhan', 'Gopal Pandi'], u'March 14 2017', u'MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are crucial regulatory RNAs, originated from hairpin precursors. For the past decade, researchers are focusing extensively on miRNA profiles in various plants. However studies on precursor miRNAs (pre-miRNAs) global profiling stay static even in model plants. Here, for the first time in a non-model plant, Abelmoschus esculentus with negligible genome information, we are reporting the global profiling to characterize the miRNAs and their associated pre-miRNAs by applying next generation sequencing approach. Preliminarily we performed sRNA (small RNA) sequencing with five biological replicates of leaf samples to attain 207,285,863 reads and data analysis using miRPlant keyed out 128 known and 845 novel miRNA candidates. With the objective to seize their associated hairpin precursors, we accomplished pre-miRNA sequencing to attain 83,269,844 reads. The paired end reads are merged, adaptor trimmed and the resulting 40-241 nt (nucleotide) sequences were picked out for analysis by using perl scripts from miRGrep tool and in-house built shell script for Minimum Fold Energy Index (MFEI) calculation. Applying stringent criteria of dicer cleavage pattern and perfect stem loop structure revealed precursors for 57 known miRNAs of 15 families and 18 novel miRNAs. Quantitative Real Time (qRT) PCR was performed to determine the expression of selected miRNAs.', u'/manuscript/201703.0081/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], []]
[u'Mercury Levels in Human Hair and Farmed Fish near Artisanal and Small-Scale Gold Mining Communities in the Madre de Dios River Basin, Peru', ['Aubrey L. Langeland', 'Rebecca D. Hardin', 'Richard L. Neitzel'], u'March 14 2017', u'Artisanal and small-scale gold mining (ASGM) has been an important source of income for communities in the Madre de Dios River Basin in Peru for hundreds of years. However, in recent decades, the scale of ASGM activities in the region has increased dramatically, and exposures to a variety of occupational and environmental hazards related to ASGM, including mercury, are becoming more widespread. The aims of our study were to: (1) examine patterns in the total hair mercury level of human participants in several communities in the region and compare these results to the 2.2 \xb5g/g total hair mercury level equivalent to the World Health Organization (WHO) Expert Committee of Food Additives (JECFA)\u2019s Provisional Tolerable Weekly Intake (PTWI); and (2), to measure the mercury levels of paco (Piaractus brachypomus) fish raised in local aquaculture ponds, in order to compare these levels to the EPA Fish Tissue Residue Criterion of 0.3 \xb5g Hg/g fish (wet weight). We collected hair samples from 80 participants in four communities (one control and three where ASGM activities occurred) in the region, and collected 111 samples from fish raised in 24 local aquaculture farms. We then analyzed the samples for total mercury. Total mercury levels in hair were statistically significantly higher in the mining communities than in the control community, and increased with increasing distance away from the Madre de Dios headwaters (as the crow flies), did not differ by sex, and frequently exceeded the reference level. Regression analyses indicated that higher hair mercury levels were associated with residence in ASGM communities. The analysis of paco fish samples found no samples that exceeded the EPA tissue residue criterion. Collectively, these results align with other recent studies showing that ASGM activities are associated with elevated human mercury exposure. The fish farmed through the relatively new process of aquaculture in ASGM areas appeared to have little potential to contribute to human mercury exposure. More research is needed on human health risks associated with ASGM to discern occupational, residential, and nutritional exposure, especially through tracking temporal changes in mercury levels as fish ponds age, and assessing levels in different farmed fish species. Additionally, research is needed to definitively determine that elevated mercury levels in humans and fish result from the elemental mercury from mining, rather than from a different source, such as the mercury released from soil erosion during deforestation events from mining or other activities.', u'/manuscript/201703.0076/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'TTF1-NP Induces Autophagy in Human Hepatoma via the PI3K/Akt/mTOR and MAPK/JNK Signaling Pathway', ['Xuan Zhang', 'MeiLan Zhang', 'Bin Xiao', 'WenJun Jiao', 'XueWu Zhang'], u'March 14 2017', u'TTF1-NP (5,2\u2019,4\u2019-trihydroxy-6,7,5\u2019-trimethoxyflavone nanoparticles) is a kind of flavonoid nanoparticles that bases on TTF1 which derived from Changbai Mountain medicinal plant Sorbaria sorbifolia (SS). The present study has been reported that TTF1-NP has anti-tumor effects in human hepatoma by inducting apoptosis. Here, our study demonstrated that TTF1-NP induced autophagy in both HepG2 and SMMC-7721 cells via up-regulating the levels of LC3-II, Beclin-1 and down-regulating p62. Meanwhile, autophagy was determined by MDC staining and TEM assay. Further, the detection of the PI3K/Akt/mTOR and MAPK/JNK signaling pathway showed that autophagy TTF1-NP-induced related to inhibit the expresstion of p-Akt, p-mTOR and increase the phosphorylation of JNK in two cell lines. Taken together, these findings suggested that TTF1-NP induced autophagy in HepG2 and SMMC-7721 cells through suppressing PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway and activating JNK pathways. Therefore, autophagy TTF1-NP-induced may be a potential target for human hepatoma therapy.', u'/manuscript/201703.0088/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], []]
[u'Inhibition of Zika Virus by Marine Algae', ['Claudio Cirne-Santos', 'Caroline De Souza Barros', 'Caio Cesar Richter Nogueira', 'Renata Mendonca Campos', 'Valeria Teixeira', 'Davis Ferreira', 'Izabel Christina Nunes De Palmer Paixao'], u'March 14 2017', u'For many years marine algae has been subject of numerous researches and as a source of natural products with antiviral activity, such as terpenes, alkaloids and sulphated polysaccharides. However, the anti-Zika virus (ZIKV) potential of\xa0algae\xa0has not been studied. In this study we evaluated extracts seven species of the three major classes of seaweeds (Phaeophyceae, Chlorophyceae and Rhodophyceae) against ZIKV. All seaweeds tested are native of the Brazilian coast, except for Kappaphycus alvarezii that can be cultivated. ZIKV a mosquito-borne flavivirus, has become a public health problem. In recent years there has been an increase in the number of cases and a strong association between ZIKV outbreak and the spread of cases of Guillain-Barr\xe9 Syndrome and microcephaly. All seaweed extracts tested in this work inhibits ZIKV replication in a dose-dependent manner. Caulerpa racemosa, Kappaphycus alvarezii and Osmundaria obtusiloba extracts were able to inhibit viral replication at low concentrations with EC50 values ranging from 1.38 to 1.98 \xb5g/mL. We observed that O. obtusiloba presented a significant virucidal effect. Our results suggest that extracts of C. racemosa, K. alvarezii and O. obtusiloba presented very promising results, being excellent candidates for further studies, demonstrating that marine algae are an interesting source for the development of novel anti-ZIKV agents.', u'/manuscript/201703.0087/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Melatonin as an Interventional Novel Candidate for the Individual with Autistic Fragile X Syndrome in Human', ['Jinyoung Won', 'Yunho Jin', 'Tae Ho Lee', 'Sang-Rae Lee', 'Kyu-Tae Chang', 'Yonggeun Hong'], u'March 15 2017', u'Fragile X syndrome (FXS) is the most frequent monogenic form of autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Autistic FXS is caused by loss of the fmr1 gene product, the fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP), triggering physiological and behavioral abnormalities. It is correlated with clock components for behavioral circadian rhythm. Mutation of this gene causes the disturbances in sleep patterns and circadian behavior commonly observed in patients with autistic FXS, accompanied by frequent dysregulation of melatonin synthesis and melatonin-dependent signaling. These changes impair vigilance, learning and memory, and are also linked to autistic behavior including the abnormal anxiety response. However, although several possible causes, symptoms, and clinical features of ASD have been investigated, the correlation between an altered circadian rhythm and autistic FXS has not been extensively studied. Recent works have highlighted the impact of melatonin on the nervous, immune, and metabolic systems. Even though utilization of melatonin for sleep disorder in ASD has been considered in clinical research, further studies should be aimed at its neuroprotective role in ASD during developmental period. In this review, we focus on the regulatory circuits involved in melatonin dysregulation and circadian system disruption in those with autistic FXS. Additionally, we discuss the neuroprotective effect of melatonin intervention. This may improve neuroplasticity and physical capability. We also review the underlying molecular mechanisms, and suggest that melatonin may be a useful novel treatment for autistic FXS, countering the adverse effects of circadian variation.', u'/manuscript/201703.0095/v1', [u'Behavioral Neuroscience'], []]
[u'Potential Impact of Diet on Treatment Effect from Anti-TNF Drugs in Inflammatory Bowel Disease', ['Vibeke Andersen', 'Axel Kornerup Hansen', 'Berit Lilienthal Heitmann'], u'March 15 2017', u'We wanted to investigate the current knowledge on the impact of diet on anti-TNF response in inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD), to identify dietary factors that warrant further investigations in relation to anti-TNF treatment response, and, finally, to discuss potential strategies for such investigations. PubMed was searched using specified search terms. One small prospective study on diet and anti-TNF treatment in 56 patients with CD found similar remission rates after 56 weeks among 32 patients with good compliance that received concomitant enteral nutrition and 24 with poor compliance that had no dietary restrictions (78% versus 67%, p = 0.51). A meta-analysis of 295 patients found higher odds of achieving clinical remission and remaining in clinical remission among patients on combination therapy with specialised enteral nutrition and Infliximab (IFX) compared with IFX monotherapy (OR 2.73; 95% CI: 1.73\u20134.31, p < 0.01, OR 2.93; 95% CI: 1.66\u20135.17, p < 0.01, respectively). In conclusion, evidence-based knowledge on impact of diet on anti-TNF treatment response for clinical use is scarce. Here we propose a mechanism by which Western style diet high in meat and low in fibre may promote colonic inflammation and potentially impact treatment response to anti-TNF drugs. Further studies using hypothesis-driven and data-driven strategies in observational, animal and interventional studies are warranted.', u'/manuscript/201703.0093/v1', [u'Gastroenterology'], []]
[u'Avian and Mammalian Facilitative Glucose Transporters', ['Mary Shannon Byers', 'Christianna Howard', 'Xiaofei Wang'], u'March 15 2017', u'The GLUT members belong to a family of glucose transporter proteins that facilitate glucose transport across the cell membrane. The mammalian GLUT family consists of thirteen members (GLUTs 1-12 and HMIT). Humans have a recently duplicated GLUT member, GLUT14. Avians express the majority of GLUT members. The arrangement of multiple GLUTs across all somatic tissues signifies the important role of glucose across all organisms. Defects in glucose transport have been linked to metabolic disorders, insulin resistance and diabetes. Despite the essential importance of these transporters, our knowledge regarding GLUT members in avians is fragmented. It has been clear that there are no chicken orthologs of mammalian GLUT4 and GLUT7. Our examination of GLUT members in the chicken revealed that some chicken GLUT members do not have corresponding orthologs in mammals. We review the information regarding GLUT orthologs and their function and expression in mammals and birds, with emphasis on chickens and humans.', u'/manuscript/201703.0101/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], []]
[u'Th17 Cells Interactions with the Brain Endothelium in Vitro', ['Dagmara Weronika Wojkowska', 'Piotr Szpakowski', 'Andrzej Glabinski'], u'March 15 2017', u'The nature of the interaction between Th17 cells and the blood-brain barrier (BBB) is critical for the development of autoimmune inflammation in the central nervous system (CNS). TNF-a or IL-17 stimulation is known to enhance the adherence of Th17 cells to the brain endothelium. The brain endothelial cells (bEnd.3) express VCAM-1, the receptor responsible for inflammatory cell adhesion, which binds VLA-4 on migrating effector lymphocytes at the early stage of brain inflammation. The present study examines the effect of the pro-inflammatory cytokines TNF-a and IL-17 on the adherence of Th17 cells to bEnd.3 The bEnd.3 cells were found to increase production of CCL2 and CXCL1 after stimulation by pro-inflammatory cytokines, while CCL2, CCL5, CCL20 and IL17 induced Th17 cell migration through a bEnd.3 monolayer. This interaction between Th17 cells and the brain endothelium appears to be mediated by VCAM-1 and some chemotactic cytokines. This observation may suggest potential therapeutic targets for the prevention of autoimmune neuroinflammation development in the CNS.', u'/manuscript/201703.0094/v1', [u'Cell & Developmental Biology'], []]
[u'Potent Natural Inhibitors of Alpha-Glucosidase and Alpha-Amylase against Hyperglycemia in Vitro and in Vivo', ['Jirawat Riyaphan', 'Chien-Hung Jhong', 'May-Jwan Tsai', 'Der-Nan Lee', 'Max K. Leong', 'Ching-Feng Weng'], u'March 16 2017', u'The inhibition of alpha-glucosidase and alpha-amylase is one of clinic strategies for remedy the type II diabetes. Herbal medicines are reported to alleviate hyperglycemia. However, the constituents from those sources whether are targeted to the alpha-glucosidase and alpha-amylase still unexplored. This study attempted to select the compounds for efficacy of hypoglycemia via cellular and mouse levels. The results illustrated that the cytotoxicity in all tested compounds at various concentrations except the concentration of 16-hydroxy-cleroda-3,13-dine-16,15-olide (HCD) at 30 \xb5M were not significant difference (p > 0.05) when compared with the untreated control. Acarbose (reference drug), Antroquinonol, Catechin, Quercetin, Actinodaphnine, Curcumin, HCD, Docosanol, Tetracosanol, Berberine, and Rutin could effectively inhibit the alpha-glucosidase activity of Caco-2 cells when compared with the control (maltose). The compounds (Curcumin, HCD, Tetracosanol, Antroquinonol, Berberine, Catechin, Actinodaphnine, and Rutin) could reduce blood sugar level at 30 min in tested mice. The effects of tested compounds on area under curve (AUC) were significant (p < 0.05) among Acarbose, Tetracosanol, Antroquinonol, Catechin, Actinodaphnine, and Rutin along with Berberine and Quercetin. In in vitro (alpha-glucosidase) with in vivo (alpha-amylase) experiments suggest that bioactive compounds can be a potential inhibitor candidate of alpha-glucosidase and alpha-amylase for the alleviation of type II diabetes.', u'/manuscript/201703.0116/v1', [u'Animal Sciences & Zoology'], []]
[u'Peptidylarginine Deiminases as Mediators of Microvesicular Release - Novel Therapeutic Interventions', ['Sigrun Lange', 'Sharad Kholia', 'Uchini Kosgodage', 'Mariya Hristova', 'John Hardy', 'Jameel M Inal'], u'March 16 2017', u'Extracellular vesicle (EV) release, which occurs in most eukaryotic cells, has recently been associated with peptidylarginine deiminase (PAD)-driven protein deimination. Evidence points to the involvement of deiminated cytoskeletal proteins and changes in histone deimination. Both PADs and EVs are associated with various pathologies including cancers, autoimmune and neurodegenerative diseases. The elevated PAD expression observed in cancers may contribute to increase in EV shedding observed from cancer cells, contributing to cancer progression. Similarly, elevated PAD expression observed in neurodegenerative diseases may cause increased EV shedding and spread of neurodegenerative EV cargo, contributing to disease progression and pathologies. Pharmacological inhibition of PAD-mediated deimination using pan-PAD inhibitor Cl-amidine, reduced cellular EV release in prostate cancer cells, rendering them significantly more susceptible to chemotherapeutic drugs. Studies on models of central nervous system damage have demonstrated critical functional roles for PADs and neuroprotective effects using PAD inhibitors in vivo, while human neurodegenerative iPSC in vitro models showed evidence of increased protein deimination. Besides using refined PAD inhibitors to selectively manipulate EV biogenesis for novel combination therapies in cancer treatment, we also speculate how EV biogenesis could be targeted via the newly identified PAD-pathway to ameliorate neurodegenerative disease progression.', u'/manuscript/201703.0125/v1', [u'Pathology & Pathobiology'], []]
[u'Effects of Cold Stress on the Photosynthesis and Antioxidant System of Rhododendron chrysanthum Pall.', ['Xiaofu Zhou', 'Silin Chen', 'Hui Wu', 'Hongwei Xu'], u'March 17 2017', u'Rhododendron chrysanthum Pall., live in Changbai Mountain being exposed to chilling temperature, high light intensities and water scarcity condition. To adapt to the harsh environment, the cold resistance mechanisms of R. chrysanthum have been successfully evolved in the long-term adaptive process. In our present work, the methods of proteomics combined with physiological and biochemical analyses were used to investigate the effects of cold stress on the photosynthesis and antioxidant system of Rhododendron chrysanthum Pall. and the molecular mechanisms involved in cold resistance of plants. A total of 153 photosynthesis related proteins were identified in present work, of which 7 proteins including Rubisco large subunit (rbcL) were up-regulated in experiment group (EG) compared with control group (CG). Simultaneously, four chlorophyll fluorescence parameters were measured in present study. The results showed that the maximum photochemical efficiency of photosystem II (Fv/Fm), actual quantum yield of PSII (Y(II)) and photochemical quenching (qP) were significantly higher in EG, whereas the non-photochemical quenching (NPQ) was notably decreased. Cold stress could lead to a significant reduction in electron transport rate (ETR) accompanied with an increase in excitation pressure (1-qP). The abundance of PetE which involved in the plants photosynthetic electron transfer was also significantly influenced by cold stress. Moreover, the up-regulated expressions and higher levels of enzymatic activities of Glutathione peroxidase (GPX) and Ascorbate peroxidases (APXs) were detected in EG. All these changes which can help plants to survive in low temperature are considered as the crucial parts of cold tolerance mechanisms. These results revealed that photosynthesis and redox adjustment play significant roles in the defense of cold-induced damage.', u'/manuscript/201703.0131/v1', [u'Plant Sciences'], []]
[u'Mosquito Traps: An Innovative, Environmental Friendly Technique to Control Mosquitoes', ['Brigitte Poulin', 'Gaetan Lefebvre', 'Camille Muranyi-Kovacs', 'Samuel Hilaire'], u'March 17 2017', u'We tested the use of mosquito traps as an alternative to insecticide spraying in Camargue (France) following the significant impacts observed on the non-target fauna through Bti persistence and trophic perturbations. In a village of 600 inhabitants, 16 Techno-Bam traps emitting CO2 and using octenol lures were set from April to November 2016. Trap performance was estimated at 70% overall based on mosquito landing on human baits in areas with and without traps. Reduction of Ochlerotatus caspius and Oc. detritus, the two species targeted by Bti spraying, was respectively 74 and 98%. Traps were less efficient against Anopheles hyrcanus (46%), which was more attracted by lactic-acid than octenol lures based on previous tests. Nearly 300 000 mosquitoes from nine species were captured, with large variations among traps, emphasizing that trap performance is also influenced by surrounding factors. Environmental impact, based on the proportion of non-target insects captured, was mostly limited to small chironomids attracted by street lights. Breeding success of a house martin colony was not significantly affected by trap use, in contrast to Bti spraying. Our experiment confirms that deployment of mosquito traps can offer a cost-effective alternative to Bti spraying for protecting local populations from mosquito nuisance in sensitive natural areas.', u'/manuscript/201703.0128/v1', [u'Entomology'], []]
[u'High-Performance Prediction of Agonists on Human Estrogen Receptor Based on Chemical Structures', ['Yuki Asako', 'Yoshihiro Uesawa'], u'March 17 2017', u'Many agonists for the estrogen receptor are known to disrupt endocrine functioning. We have developed a computational model that predicts agonists for the estrogen receptor ligand-binding domain in an assay system. Our model was entered into the Tox21 Data Challenge 2014, a computational toxicology competition organized by the National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences. This competition aims to find high-performance predictive models for various adverse-outcome pathways, including the estrogen receptor. Our predictive model, which is based on the random forest method, delivered the best performance in its competition category. In the current study, the predictive performance of the random forest models was improved by strictly adjusting the hyperparameters to avoid overfitting. The random forest models were optimized from 4,000 descriptors simultaneously applied to 10,000 activity assay results for the estrogen receptor ligand-binding domain, which have been measured and compiled by Tox21. At this time, our model delivers the highest predictive power on estrogen receptor agonists in the world. Furthermore, analysis of the optimized model revealed some important features of the agonists, such as the number of hydroxyl groups in the molecules.', u'/manuscript/201703.0132/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], []]
[u'Sunburn Protection by Sunscreen Sprays at Beach', ['Hao Ou-Yang', 'Richard Bradley Rzendzian'], u'March 17 2017', u'Background: The efficacy of sunscreen is evaluated by SPF values, which are quantitatively determined in laboratories on the backs of human subjects according to a standardized procedure. However, SPF cannot be directly translated to sunburn protection under real-life situations because actual efficacy depends on various factors related to human behaviors and environmental conditions. This study clinically evaluated the efficacy of two sunscreen sprays (SPF 30 and SPF 70) under natural sunlight exposure on healthy subjects at the beach. Methods: Twenty subjects were divided into two cells for the two sunscreen sprays (SPF 70 and SPF 30) in a single-center, actual usage test. The primary endpoint of the study was sunburn protection on the dorsal arms and the secondary endpoint was protection on the face and neck. Subjects stayed at the beach for 4 h after application of the sunscreens with normal beach activities. Subjects\u2019 behavior at the beach, the amounts of sunscreen applied and reapplied, and environmental conditions were all recorded. Results: There was no significant sunburn for a majority of the subjects in either cell. However, neither sunscreen completely blocked the sunburn, especially for the face/neck area. We found that the SPF 70 sunscreen was more effective than the SPF 30 sunscreen. Conclusion: Modern sunscreen sprays, applied liberally, are effective in providing sunburn protection for the body in a beach setting.', u'/manuscript/201703.0133/v1', [u'Biophysics'], []]
[u'The Complete Chloroplast Genome Sequences of Fritillaria ussuriensis Maxim. and Fritillaria cirrhosa D. Don, and Comparative Analysis with Other Fritillaria Species', ['Inkyu Park', 'Wook-Jin Kim', 'Sang-Min Yeo', 'Goya Choi', 'Young-Min Kang', 'Renzhe Piao', 'Byeong-Cheol Moon'], u'March 17 2017', u'The genus Fritillaria belongs to the widely distributed family Liliaceae. The bulbs of Fritillaria ussuriensis and Fritillaria cirrhosa are valuable herbaceous medicinal ingredients. However, they are still used indiscriminately in herbal medicine. Identification and molecular phylogenic analysis of Fritillaria species is therefore required. Here, we report the complete chloroplast (cp) genome sequences of F. ussuriensis and F. cirrhosa. The two Fritillaria cp genomes were 151,524 and 151,083 bp in length, respectively, including a pair of inverted repeat regions (52,678 and 52,156 bp) separated by a large single copy region (81,732 and 81,390 bp) and small single copy region (17,114 and 17,537 bp). A total of 111 genes in F. ussuriensis and 112 in F. cirrhosa comprised 77 protein-coding genes in F. ussuriensis and 78 in F. cirrhosa, 30 tRNA genes, and four rRNA genes. The gene order, content, and orientation of the two Fritillaria cp genomes exhibited the general structure of flowering plants, and were similar to those of other Fritillaria species. Comparison of the six Fritillaria species\u2019 cp genomes indicated seven highly divergent regions in intergenic spacers and in the matK, rpoC1, rpoC2, ycf1, ycf2, ndhD, and ndhF coding regions. We established the position of the six species through phylogenic analysis. The complete chloroplast genome sequences of two Fritillaria species will be useful genomics resources for identification of Fritillaria species and for studying the phylogenetic relationship among Fritillaria species within the Liliaceae family.', u'/manuscript/201703.0139/v1', [u'Plant Sciences'], []]
[u'Classical and Novel TSPO Ligands for the Mitochondrial TSPO can Modulate Nuclear Gene Expression: Implications for Mitochondrial Retrograde Signaling', ['Nasra Yasin', 'Leo Veenman', 'Sukhdev Singh', 'Maya Azrad', 'Julia Bode', 'Alex Vainshtein', 'Bea Caballero', 'Ilan Marek', 'Moshe Gavish'], u'March 17 2017', u'It is known that knockdown of the mitochondrial 18 kDa translocator protein (TSPO) as well as TSPO ligands modulate various functions, including functions related to cancer.\xa0 To study the ability of TSPO to regulate gene expression regarding such functions, we applied microarray analysis of gene expression to U118MG glioblastoma cells.\xa0 Within 15 minutes, the classical TSPO ligand PK 11195 induced changes in expression of immediate early genes and transcription factors.\xa0 These changes also included gene products that are part of the canonical pathway serving to modulate general gene expression.\xa0 These changes are in accord with reverse transcriptase (RT) real-time -PCR.\xa0 At the time points of 15, 30, 45, and 60 minutes, as well as 3 and 24 hours of PK 11195 exposure, the functions associated with the changes in gene expression in these glioblastoma cells covered well known TSPO functions.\xa0 These functions included cell viability, proliferation, differentiation, adhesion, migration, tumorigenesis, and angiogenesis. This was corroborated microscopically for cell migration, cell accumulation, adhesion, and neuronal differentiation.\xa0 Changes in gene expression at 24 hours of PK 11195 exposure were related to downregulation of tumorigenesis and upregulation of programmed cell death.\xa0 In the vehicle treated as well as PK 11195 exposed cell cultures, our triple labeling showed intense TSPO labeling in the mitochondria but no TSPO signal in the cell nuclei.\xa0 Thus, mitochondrial TSPO appears to be part of the mitochondria-to-nucleus signaling pathway for modulation of nuclear gene expression.\xa0 The novel TSPO ligand 2-Cl-MGV-1 appeared to be very specific regarding modulation of gene expression of immediate early genes and transcription factors.', u'/manuscript/201612.0068/v2', [u'Cell & Developmental Biology'], []]
[u'Ilex paraguariensis Extracts Extend the Lifespan of Drosophila melanogaster Fed a High Fat Diet', ['Ana C. Colpo', 'Maria Eduarda Lima', 'Hemerson Rosa', 'Ana Paula Leal', 'Chaiane C. Colares', 'Ana Carolina Zago', 'Andreia C.F. Salgueiro', 'Paulo Ricardo Bertelli', 'Luciane Minetto', 'Sidnei Moura', 'Andreas Sebastian Loureiro Mendez', 'Vanderlei Folmer'], u'March 20 2017', u'Studies have suggested that total energy intake and diet composition affect lifespan and ageing. A high-fat diet induces oxidative stress and affects the development of diseases. In contrast, antioxidants are capable of reducing its harmful effects. Yerba mate beverages are an important source of antioxidants, but there is scarce knowledge about their effects on suppressing fat accumulation. Here, we investigated the compounds present in yerba mate extracts and assessed their effects on Drosophila melanogaster given a high cholesterol diet. LS-ESI-MS analysis showed the presence of matesaponins, phenolic compounds and methylxanthines in all of the examined extracts. In Drosophila, under extract treatment conditions, the mean lifespan was significantly extended from 38 to 43 days, there was an increase in the ability to support induced stress and decrease lipid peroxidation products. Moreover, Yerba mate extracts recovered the glutathione S-transferases (GST) activity and reduced the cholesterol level. Taken together, our results support that extracts can extend lifespan by reducing the detrimental effect of a high fat diet in Drosophila melanogaster, and this outcome can be associated with the compound content in the extracts. This study improves the understanding of natural interventions that stress-induced oxidative damage, which is fundamental to promoting healthy ageing.', u'/manuscript/201703.0147/v1', [u'Biochemistry'], []]
[u'Evaluation of the Effects of Airborne Particulate Matter on Bone Marrow-Mesenchymal Stem Cells (BM-MSCs): Cellular, Molecular and Systems Biological Approaches', ['Muhammad Abu-Elmagd', 'Mansour A Alghamdi', 'Magdy Shamy', 'Mamdouh I Khoder', 'Max Costa', 'Mourad Assidi', 'Roaa Kadam', 'Haneen Alsehli', 'Mamdooh Gari', 'Peter Natesan Pushparaj', 'Gauthaman Kalamegam', 'Mohammed Al-Qahtani'], u'March 20 2017', u'Particulate matter (PM) contains heavy metals that affect various cellular functions and gene expression associated with an array of acute and chronic diseases, in humans. However, their specific effects on the stem cells remain unclear. Here, we report the effects of PM collected from Jeddah city on bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BM-MSCs) on proliferation, cell death, related gene expression and systems biological analysis aiming to understand the underlying mechanisms. Two different sizes (PM2.5-10) were tested in vitro at various concentrations (15 to 300 \xb5g/ml) and durations (24 to 72 h). PMs induced cellular stress including membrane damage, shrinkage and death. Lower concentrations of PM2.5 increased BM-MSCs proliferation, while higher concentrations decreased it. PM10 decreased BM-MSCs proliferation in a concentration-dependant manner. The X-Ray Fluorescence spectrometric analysis showed that PM contains high levels of heavy metals. Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) and hierarchical clustering analyses showed that heavy metals were associated with signalling pathways involving cell stress/death, cancer and chronic diseases. qRT-PCR results showed differential regulation of the apoptosis genes (BCL2, BAX); upregulation of inflammation associated genes (TNF-a and IL-6) and downregulation of cell cycle regulation gene (P53). We conclude that PM could affect different cellular functions and predispose to debilitating diseases.', u'/manuscript/201703.0162/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], []]
[u'Association of Education and Smoking Status on Risk of Diabetes Mellitus: A Population-Based Nationwide Cross-Sectional Study', ['Jin-Hyeong Kim', 'Ju-Hwan Nho', 'Jae-Woo Choi', 'Eun-Cheol Park'], u'March 20 2017', u'Background: Smoking, including environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) exposure is a well-known risk factor for diabetes. Low socioeconomic status, especially lack of education, also is a risk factor for diabetes. Therefore, we assessed the association of education and smoking status, including ETS exposure, with the prevalence of diabetes. Methods: Data were from the 2007\u20132013 Korea National Health and Nutritional Evaluation Survey (KNHANES). Multivariable logistic regression examined associations between various lifestyle and health factors and prevalence of diabetes while controlling for potential confounding variables. Subgroup analysis was performed according to smoking status to determine factors associated with diabetes. Results: Of 19,303 individuals analyzed, 1,325 (11.4%) had diabetes. Greater average age, male sex, lower educational level, unemployment, and coexisting health problems were significantly associated with diabetes. Individuals with only elementary, middle, or high school level education had significantly greater odds ratios (p<0.05) compared to college graduates; smokers and nonsmokers exposed to ETS had significantly greater OR (p<0.05) than nonsmokers unexposed to ETS. Subgroup analysis of diabetics according to smoking status revealed significant associations (p<0.05) for diabetic nonsmokers exposed to ETS with female sex, single status, elementary level education, urban residence, National Health Insurance (NHI), hypertension, no alcohol intake, and no moderate physical activity. For diabetic smokers, there were significant associations (p<0.05) with elementary education, urban residence, lack of moderate physical activity, no alcohol intake, and NHI. Conclusions: The results suggested that smoking status, including ETS exposure, was associated with a higher prevalence of diabetes especially in populations with less education. Thus, we should direct efforts for controlling diabetes toward individuals with lower levels of education, and those who are smokers and nonsmokers exposed to ETS.', u'/manuscript/201703.0153/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Association between Alcohol Consumption, Folate Intake, and Risk of Pancreatic Cancer: A Case-Control Study', ['Winta Yellow', 'William R. Bamlet', 'Ann L. Oberg', 'Kristin E. Anderson', 'Janet E. Olson', 'Rashmi Sinha', 'Gloria M. Petersen', 'Rachael Z. Stolzenberg-Solomon', 'Rick J. Jansen'], u'March 20 2017', u'Pancreatic cancer is one of the most fatal common cancers affecting both men and women, representing about 3 percent of all new cancer cases in the United States. In this study, we aimed to investigate the association of pancreatic cancer risk with alcohol consumption as well as folate intake. We performed a case-control study of 384 patients diagnosed with pancreatic cancer from May 2004 to December 2009 and 983 primary care healthy controls. Our findings showed no significant association between risk of pancreatic cancer and either overall alcohol consumption or type of alcohol consumed (drinks/day). Our study showed dietary folate intake was modestly but significantly inversely associated with pancreatic cancer (OR=0.99, P <.0001). The current study supports the hypothesis that pancreatic cancer risk is reduced with higher food-based folate intake.', u'/manuscript/201703.0149/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'Chemical Characterization of Olive Pomace in the Northern Region of Jordan', ['Mohammed Wedyan', 'Bilal Abu Hanieh', 'Ahmed Al Harahsheh'], u'March 20 2017', u'In this study, the olive pomace was considered because of its importance in the environment. So, this study carried out to estimate the total nitrogen content and the fatty acids profile of olive pomace. The olive pomace samples were collected from Irbid, Jarash, Ajloun and Mafraq during the harvesting season 2014 to study the biochemical characteristics of fatty acid composition and the total nitrogen (TN) content. The total nitrogen content was determined by standard Kjeldahl method and the fatty acid profile was detected by gas chromatography (GC). The results show that the total nitrogen content ranged from (0.39 \xb1 0.0) to (0.62 \xb1 0.02) with statistically significant difference suggesting that the composition of matrices and their percentage may be responsible for composition of amendments. The calculated total protein percentage ranged between (2.43 \xb1 0.00) to (3.87 \xb1 0.17). Also, 13 different fatty acids were quantitatively profiled and quantitated. Oleic acid (C 18:1) was found to be the highest percentage of all other fatty acids and ranged between (59.03%) and (63.81%), moreover the C 18:1/C 18:2 (oil quality) was calculated and C.V% showed variation meaning that nutritional implication could affect the oxidative stability of oils. In conclusion, OP by-product could give a sustainable and alternative-cheap source for fertilizers, pharmaceutical industries, cosmetics and other industries.', u'/manuscript/201703.0150/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Cyanobacterial Toxins of the Laurentian Great Lakes, their Toxicological Effects, and Numerical Limits in Drinking Water', ['Todd R. Miller', 'Lucas J. Beversdorf', 'Chelsea A. Weirich', 'Sarah L. Bartlett'], u'March 20 2017', u'Cyanobacteria are ubiquitous phototrophic bacteria that inhabit diverse environments across the planet. They dominate many eutrophic lakes impacted by excess nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) forming dense accumulations of biomass known as cyanobacterial harmful algal blooms or cyanoHABs. Their dominance in eutrophic lakes is attributed to a variety of unique adaptations including N and P concentrating mechanisms, N fixation, colony formation that inhibits predation, vertical movement via gas vesicles, and the production of toxic or otherwise bioactive molecules. While some of these molecules have been explored for their medicinal benefits, others are potent toxins harmful to humans, animals, and other wildlife known as cyanotoxins. In humans these cyanotoxins affect various tissues, including the liver, central and peripheral nervous system, kidneys, and reproductive organs among others. They induce acute effects at low doses in the parts-per-billion range and some are tumor promoters linked to chronic diseases such as liver and colorectal cancer. The occurrence of cyanoHABs and cyanotoxins in lakes presents challenges for maintaining safe recreational aquatic environments and the production of potable drinking water. CyanoHABs are a growing problem in the North American (Laurentian) Great Lakes basin. This review summarizes information on the occurrence of cyanoHABs in the Great Lakes, toxicological effects of cyanotoxins, and appropriate numerical limits on cyanotoxins in finished drinking water.', u'/manuscript/201703.0148/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Melanin Bleaching with Warm Hydrogen Peroxide and Integrated Immunohistochemical Analysis: An Automated Platform', ['Chia-Hsing Liu', 'Chih-Hung Lin', 'Min-Jan Tsai', 'Yu-Hsuan Chen', 'Sheau-Fang Yang', 'Kun-Bow Tsai'], u'March 21 2017', u'Diagnosing melanocytic lesions is among the most challenging problems in the practice of pathology. The difficulty of physically masking melanin pigment and the similarity of its color to commonly used chromogens often complicate examination of the cytomorphology and immunohistochemical staining results for tumor cells. Melanin bleach can be very helpful for histopathological diagnosis of heavily pigmented melanocytic lesions. Although various depigmentation methods have been reported, no standardized methods have been developed. This study developed a fully automated platform that incorporates hydrogen peroxide-based melanin depigmentation in an automated immunohistochemical analysis. The utility of the method was tested in one cell block of malignant melanoma cells in pleural effusion, ten ocular melanoma tissue samples, and ten cutaneous melanoma tissue samples. Our results demonstrated that the proposed method, which can be performed in only 3 hours, effectively preserves cell cytomorphology and immunoreactivity. The method is particularly effective for removing melanin pigment to facilitate histopathological examination of cytomorphology and for obtaining an unmasked tissue section for immunohistochemical analysis.', u'/manuscript/201703.0167/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'In Chronic Cardiac Decompensation with Reduced Left Ventricular Ejection Fraction, Phosphodiesterase-5 Inhibition Exerts Significant Effects on some Clinical, Functional and Hemodynamic Outcomes: a Meta-Analysis', ['Renato De Vecchis', 'Carmelina Ariano'], u'March 22 2017', u'Background:\xa0In\xa0 patients with pulmonary arterial\xa0 hypertension, substantial\xa0 clinical benefits have been reported with the use of phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitors(PDE5i) . Moreover, some studies would have proven\xa0 useful effects\xa0 of PDE5i\xa0 also\xa0 on\xa0\xa0 the clinical picture of the\xa0 pulmonary hypertension(PH) secondary to left-sided chronic heart failure(CHF). Methods:\xa0We performed a meta-analysis comprising randomized controlled trials ( RCTs) which had compared\xa0 PDE5i ( mostly sildenafil) with\xa0 placebo in CHF patients.\xa0Results:\xa014 studies, including 928\xa0 patients overall , were admitted to the\xa0 meta-analysis. In\xa0\xa0 heart failure with reduced left ventricular ejection fraction(HFREF), PDE5i,\xa0 compared to placebo, significantly improved the composite of death and hospitalization (OR= 0.28; 95% CI: 0.10 to 0.74). They also improved peak VO2\xa0 (difference in means[MD]: 3.76; 95% CI: 3.27 to 4.25), six-minutes walk distance ( (6MWD)(\xa0 MD, 22.7 meters ; 95% CI, 8.19 to 37.21) and pulmonary arterial systolic pressure (MD: -11.52 mmHg; 95% CI: -15.56 to -7.49). Conversely, in\xa0\xa0 CHF with preserved left ventricular ejection fraction ( HFpEF), PDE5i\xa0 were shown\xa0 not to yield\xa0 any\xa0 beneficial effect\xa0 concerning\xa0 the investigated endpoints.\xa0Conclusions:\xa0In HFREF, PDE5i\xa0 were shown\xa0 to improve\xa0 the composite of death and hospitalization, as well as\xa0\xa0\xa0 exercise capacity and pulmonary hemodynamics. Conversely,\xa0 in HFpEF, no significant clinical, ergospirometric or hemodynamic \xa0betterment\xa0 was achieved\xa0 using PDE5i treatment.', u'/manuscript/201703.0177/v1', [u'Cardiology'], []]
[u'Preparation of Interface-Assembled Carbonyl Reductase and Its Application in Synthesis of S-Licarbazepine in Toluene/Tri-HCl Buffer Biphasic System', ['Zhimin Ou', 'Jiahui Xu', 'Yangping Niu', 'Jian Cui'], u'March 23 2017', u'S-licarbazepine was prepared by asymmetric reduction of oxcarbazepine with interface-assembled carbonyl reductase at the interface of oil/water biphasic system. The carbonyl reductase was conjugated with polystyrene in the surface of toluene/Tris-HCl biphasic system and formed a surfactant-like structure. The conversion and enantiometric excess of S-licarbazepine reached 97.39% and 99.6% when 3.97 mmol/L oxcarbazepine was reduced by interface-assembled carbonyl reductase with 60 g/L ethanol as co-substrate in toluene/Tris-HCl(12.5:10) biphasic system at 30 \xb0C, 180 rpm for 6 h.', u'/manuscript/201703.0180/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Mitochondrial Genomes Provide Insights into the Phylogeny of Lauxanioidea (Diptera: Cyclorrhapha)', ['Xuankun Li', 'Wenliang Li', 'Shuangmei Ding', 'Stephen L. Cameron', 'Meng Mao', 'Li Shi', 'Ding Yang'], u'March 24 2017', u'The superfamily Lauxanioidea is a significant dipteran clade including over 2500 known species in three families: Lauxaniidae, Celyphidae and Chamaemyiidae. We sequenced the first five (three complete and two partial) lauxanioid mitochondrial (mt) genomes, and used them to reconstruct the phylogeny of this group. The lauxanioid mt genomes are typical of the Diptera, containing all 37 genes usually present in bilaterian animals. A total of three conserved intergenic sequences have been reported across the Cyclorrhapha. The inferred secondary structure of 22 tRNAs suggested five substitution patterns among the Cyclorrhapha. The control region in the Lauxanioidea has apparently evolved very fast, but four conserved structural elements were detected in all three complete mt genome sequences. Phylogenetic relationships based on the mt genome data were inferred by Maximum Likelihood and Bayesian methods. The traditional relationships between families within the Lauxanioidea, (Chamaemyiidae + (Lauxaniidae + Celyphidae)), was corroborated, however, the higher level relationships between cyclorrhaphan superfamilies are mostly poorly supported.', u'/manuscript/201703.0182/v1', [u'Entomology'], []]
[u'Synthesis and Preliminarily Cytotoxicity to A549, HCT116 and MCF-7 Cell Lines of Thieno[2,3-d]pyrimidine Derivatives Containing Isoxazole Moiety', ['Jianping Yong', 'Canzhong Lu', 'Xiaoyuan Wu'], u'March 24 2017', u'Under the guidance of our previous achievements, and in order to extend this small molecular library. In current work, other 21 novel structures of thieno[2,3-d]pyrimidines containing isoxazole-moiety (1a-1u) were firstly synthesized and the cytotoxicity to A549, HCT116 and MCF-7 cell lines was evaluated using the MTT method. The results showed that most target compounds exhibited good to excellent cytotoxicity to A549, HCT116 and MCF-7 cell lines, especially 6-Methyl-4-{[3-(4-chlorophenyl)-isoxazol-5-yl-]-methoxy-}-thieno[2,3-d]-pyrimidine (1e) exhibited a broad-spectrum and the most potent cytotoxicity to A549, HCT116 and MCF-7 cell lines (IC50s: 2.79, 6.69 and 4.21\xd710-3 \u03bcM, respectively) as compared with the reference drug gefitinib (IC50s: 17.90, 21.55 and 20.68 \u03bcM, respectively). 1e can be seen as the best drug candidates for development of anticancer drugs.', u'/manuscript/201703.0190/v1', [u'Oncology & Oncogenics'], []]
[u'Combined Laser Blood Illumination by Red (635 nm) and UV (365-405 nm) Light in the Treatment of Small Domestic Animals with Allergic Dermatitis', ['Tatiana L. Yatskevich', 'Olga N. Semenova', 'Sergey V. Moskvin'], u'March 24 2017', u'Background: The prevalence of atopic dermatitis in domestic animals is one of the problems of modern veterinary. Treating with standard techniques using chemotherapeutic agents not always leads to a positive result of therapy; moreover, many drugs produce adverse side effects. Methods: Low level laser therapy, in particular, intravenous laser blood illumination (ILBI) has a pronounced and long-lasting impact on the immune system of animals. The combined technique including ILBI-635 (635 nm, 2 mW, 5 min) and LUVBI\xae (365 nm, 2 mW, 3 min) every other day provides a positive change in clinical status of cats with allergic dermatitis after the 3rd-4th treatment session. Results: The increased level of erythrocytes and hemoglobin was identified in the course of treatment, and it indirectly indicates increased blood transport activity, which improves trophic provision and microcirculation. A double reduction of leukocytes and a significant decrease of neutrophil cells indicate the immunomodulatory effect of LILI (low-intensity laser illumination). The increase in the percentage of lymphocytes and the decrease of eosinophils and monocytes against the background of basophil concentrations deviations within physiological concentration result in the reduction of inflammatory mediators expression that induce itching. The reduction of total IgE concentration 32 times against control on the 7th day of treatment correlates with the decrease in the quantitative content of peripheral blood eosinophils, indicating the decrease in severity of an allergic process. Conclusion: LLLT is recommended against the background of standard drug therapy to achieve quick clinical outcome together with a long-lasting prolonged effect.', u'/manuscript/201703.0186/v1', [u'Veterinary Medicine'], []]
[u'Alluvial Gold Mining Sites as Exposure Pathways for Methyl Mercury Toxicity in Children: A Systematic Review', [], u'March 24 2017', u'Background: Informal business activities are fundamental in alleviating poverty in developing countries of the world. One such activity concerns the artisanal gold mining which numerous studies have pointed out that uses mercury as the predominant element to extract gold from ore. The link between mercury and its impacts on adults and children\u2019s health have been extensively studied. Although the acute effects of mercury on adults could be mild or severe depending on the dose- response relationship the chronic effects on children is often deleterious. Aim/Objectives: The purpose of this review is to evaluate the current literature on the impacts of alluvial gold mining and the deleterious effects of mercury on children\u2019s development and cognitive functions through consumption of methyl mercury contaminated fish. Methodology: Key word search on \u201cmethyl mercury\u2019 and children development\u201d in Google scholar, Cochraine, and JStore was used to select appropriate articles. The inclusion criteria included; cohort study and exposure through fish consumption, studies on women and children, and full text articles published within sixteen (16) years of publication. Nine articles met the predefined criteria for this review. The results: The studies by Oken et al. (2005); Mary et al. (2014; Lederman et al. (2008) and Yorifu et al. (2011) produced convincing results about the exposure to MeHg and its effects on child development through consumption of contaminated fish during pregnancy and thereafter. On the other hand, the studies by (Davidson et al. 1998; Davidson et al. 2008; Davidson et al. 2006; & Jedrychowski et al. 2007) have found no adverse outcomes in children less than 6 years old from prenatal exposure. Interestingly studies by Wijngaarden et al. 2013 & Daniels et al. 2004 have shown inconclusive and inconsistent evidences thus requiring further research into the association between methyl mercury exposures and neurodevelopment disorders during infancy. Conclusion: The aforementioned studies have shown some convincing results about the consumption of fish contaminated with methyl mercury and mental retardation and low IQ in children. However none of the studies involved participants who have lived in alluvial gold mining areas to elicit a level of risk from exposure through ingestion of mercury contaminated fish.', u'/manuscript/201703.0183/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Association Between Serum Selenium Concentrations and Levels of Proinflammatory and Profibrotic Cytokines - Interleukin-6 and Growth Differentiation Factor-15, in Patients with Alcoholic Liver Cirrhosis', ['Andrzej Prystupa', 'Pawe Kicinski', 'Dorota Luchowska-Kocot', 'Anna Blazewicz', 'Jarosaw Niedziaek', 'Grzegorz Mizerski', 'Mariusz Jojczuk', 'Andrzej Ochal', 'Jarosaw J. Sak', 'Wojciech Zauska'], u'March 27 2017', u'According to some authors, the serum selenium level is strongly associated with the severity of liver diseases including liver cirrhosis. The aim of the study was to determine the relationship between the concentration of selenium and pro-inflammatory and profibrotic cytokines \u2013 interleukin-6 (IL-6) and growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF-15) in patients with alcoholic liver cirrhosis. The parameters studied were determined in serum of 99 alcoholic liver cirrhosis patients divided based on the severity of disease according to the Child-Turcotte-Pugh criteria. In patients with liver cirrhosis, the serum selenium concentration was statistically lower whereas serum IL-6 and GDF-15 concentrations were higher than those in the control group. Moreover, the concentration of selenium negatively correlated with the levels of GDF-15 and IL-6. The above results may indicate a role of selenium deficiency in the pathogenesis and progression of alcoholic liver disease.', u'/manuscript/201703.0204/v1', [u'Gastroenterology'], []]
[u'Melatonin Scavenger Properties against Oxidative and Nitrosative Stress: Impact on In Vitro Embryo Production in Mammals', ['Pia Loren', 'Raul Sanchez', 'Maria-Elena Arias', 'Ricardo Felmer', 'Jennie Risopatron', 'Carolina Cheuqueman'], u'March 27 2017', u'Oxidative and nitrosative stress are a common problem when manipulating gametes in vitro. In vitro development in mammalian embryos is highly affected by culture conditions, especially by reactive oxygen species (ROS) and reactive nitrogen species (RNS), because its absence or over production causes embryo arrest and changes in gene expression. Melatonin in gamete co-incubation during IVF has deleterious or positive effects depending on the concentration used in culture medium, demonstrating the delicate balance that must exist between antioxidant and pro-oxidant activity. Further research is needed to better understand the possible impact of melatonin on the different IVP steps in domestic animals, especially in seasonal breeds where this neuro-hormone system highly regulates its reproduction physiology.', u'/manuscript/201703.0195/v1', [u'Obstetrics & Gynaecology'], []]
[u'Diffusion-Weighted MRI and Urinary Activin-A are Correlated with the Degree of Hypoxic Ischemic Encephalopathy in Neonates', ['Sheren Maher', 'Mohamed Abdelazim', 'Mohamed Eissawy', 'Mahmoud Higazi', 'Nagwa Okaily'], u'March 28 2017', u'Background: Early identification and prevention of hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy (HIE) may reduce neonatal mortality and morbidity. Objective: We aimed to correlate between urinary Activin-A and MRI (conventional and Diffusion-weighted) and the severity of HIE in full-term neonates. Methods: Forty-five full-term neonates with HIE admitted to NICU and 15 normal neonates were enrolled into the study. The concentration of urinary Activin-A was determined using enzyme immunoassay kits and MRI were done. Correlations between urinary Activin-A and MRI with the degree of HIE were done. Results: Urinary Activin-A levels were significantly higher in neonates with HIE than controls (P<0.001). It was positively correlated with the clinical grading of HIE and a cutoff value of 0.08\xb5g/l on day-1 after birth had a sensitivity of 98.6% and specificity of 97.1% for prediction of HIE. DW-MRI detected HIE with a high sensitivity (85%) compared to the low sensitivity of conventional MRI (35%). An ADC value of \u2264 0.8 was the best sensitivity-specificity cutoff point for detecting severe ischemic injury. DW-MRI imaging was positively correlated with Urinary Activin-A and both of them were positively correlated with the clinical grades of HIE (P < 0.001). Conclusions: DW-MRI imaging is correlated well with urinary Activin-A in full-term neonates with HIE and both of them are correlated with the degree of HIE. Early determination of urinary Activin-A combined with DW-MRI imaging can early detect HIE and its severity in full-term neonates with HIE.', u'/manuscript/201703.0207/v1', [u'Pediatrics'], []]
[u'Surveillance of Mosquitoes for Zika Virus in Westchester County, New York', ['Randolph Earl Schilke'], u'March 28 2017', u'In 2015 in Brazil, Zika virus showed features of geographic expansion and potentially increased virulence. In 2016, New York State issued emergency regulations after the World Health Organization declared Zika virus a Public Health Emergency of International Concern. In this study, mosquito surveillance was conducted in Westchester County, New York, to identify Zika virus and other arboviruses. Twenty trap sites were used for surveillance of Aedes albopictus mosquitoes, the Zika virus vector. The Westchester County Department of Health performed testing for Zika, West Nile, Eastern equine encephalitis, and other flaviviruses on 369 batches comprising 8,891 mosquitoes. Aedes albopictus mosquitoes were identified in Nassau, Rockland, Suffolk, Westchester, and New York City. Despite the increased capacity for specimen analysis, Zika virus was not detected. This study provides the first evidence of appropriate Zika virus surveillance. However, the results do not allow determination of the potential mechanism of local vector-to-human transmission of Zika virus among Aedes albopictus mosquitoes. This study adds to the evidence regarding the distribution, emergence, and trapping capabilities of potential Zika virus vectors.', u'/manuscript/201703.0211/v1', [u'Entomology'], []]
[u'A Study of Substrate Selectivity for UDP-Glucuronosyltransferase1A8 Using the Pharmacophore Approach', [], u'March 28 2017', u'UDP-glucuronosyltransferases 1A8 (UGT1A8) is an important enzyme responsible for glucuronidation of numerous xenobiotic/drugs. The objective of this study is to establish a substrate selectivity model through pharmacophore approach. 2. Thirty-six substrates of UGT1A8 collated from the literature were divided into training (n = 24) and test sets (n = 12). The Discovery Studio 2.5 (DS) software was utilized to establish the pharmacophore model. The HypoGen algorithm that was available in 3D QSAR Pharmacophore Generation protocol was applied to construct pharmacophore hypotheses. The established pharmacophore model consisted of two hydrogen-bonding acceptors and one ring aromatic. The best pharmacophore model (hypothesis 1) was statistically significant with high value of correlation coefficient and low value of difference between the null cost and the total cost. Besides, the predicted catalysis activities were within one log residual of experimental value for substrates in the test set. In summary, a pharmacophore model for UGT1A8 was successfully constructed for the first time in this study. The established model contributed to an improved understanding of the UGT1A8\u2019s substrate selectivity. Besides, this model would be an efficient tool for high-throughput prediction of UGT1A8 metabolism.', u'/manuscript/201703.0210/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], []]
[u'A Dysbiotic Mycobiome Dominated by Candida albicans is Identified within Oral Squamous Cell Carcinomas', ['Manosha Perera', 'Nezar Noor Al-hebshi', 'Irosha Perera', 'Deepak Ipe', 'Glen Ulett', 'David J. Speicher', 'Tsute Chen', 'Newell W. Johnson'], u'March 30 2017', u'Background: Studies employing next-generation sequencing (NGS) show that the oral fungal community (mycobiome) is far more complex than hitherto thought. \xa0However, the role of the oral mycobiome in health and disease, including oral carcinogenesis, has not been explored. Objective: To characterize the mycobiome associated with oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC). Methods: Tissue biopsies [cases: 25 OSCC; controls: 27 intra-oral fibro-epithelial polyp (FEP)] were collected from oral and maxillofacial units in Sri Lanka. Total DNA was extracted and subjected to sequencing of the fungal ITS2 region using Illumina\u2019s 2x300 bp chemistry. High quality, non-chimeric merged reads were classified to species level using a BLASTN-algorithm with UNITE\u2019s named species sequences as reference. Downstream analyses were performed using QIIME and LEfSe. Results: 364 species representing 160 genera and 2 phyla (Ascomycota and Basidiomycota) were identified, with Candida and Malassezia making up 48% and 11% of the average mycobiome, respectively. However, only 5 species and 4 genera were detected in \u226550% of the samples. The species richness and diversity were significantly lower in OSCC. At the genus level, Candida, Hannaella and Gibberella were overrepresented in OSCC while Alternaria and Trametes were more abundant in FEP. Species-wise, C. albicans, C. etchellsii and Hannaella luteola-like species were enriched in OSCC while Malassezia restricta, Aspergillus tamarii, Alternaria alternate, Cladosporium halotolerans, and Hanseniaspora uvarum-like species were the most significantly abundant in FEP. Conclusions: A dysbiotic mycobiome dominated by C. albicans was found in association with OSCC. Whether this dysbiosis plays a role in oral carcinogenesis warrants further investigation.', u'/manuscript/201703.0216/v1', [u'Oncology & Oncogenics'], []]
[u'Production of Bioethanol from Agricultural Wastes Using Residual Thermal Energy of a Cogeneration Plant in the Distillation Phase', ['Raffaela Cutzu', 'Laura Bardi'], u'March 30 2017', u'Alcoholic fermentations were performed adapting the technology to exploit the residual thermal energy (hot water at 83-85\xb0C) of a cogeneration plant and to valorize agricultural wastes. Substrates were apple, kiwifruit and peaches wastes and Corn Threshing Residue (CTR). Saccharomyces bayanus was chosen as biocatalyst. The fruits, fresh or blanched, were mashed; CTR was gelatinized and liquefied by adding\xa0 Liquozyme\xae SC DS (Novozyme); saccharification simultaneous to fermentation was carried out using the enzyme Spirizyme\xae Ultra (Novozyme). Lab-scale static fermentations were carried out at 28\xb0C and 35\xb0C, using raw fruits, blanched fruits and CTR, monitoring the ethanol production. The highest ethanol production was reached with CTR (10,22%9 and among fruits with apple (8,71%). Distillations at low temperatures and under vacuum, to exploit warm water from cogeneration plant, were tested; distillation at 80\xb0C and 200 mbar or 400 mbar allowed to recover 93,35 and 89,59 % of ethanol respectively. These results support a fermentation process coupled to a cogeneration plant, fed with apple wastes and with CTR when apple wastes are not available, where hot water from cogeneration plant is used in blanching and distillation phases. The scale up in a pilot plant was also carried out.', u'/manuscript/201703.0222/v1', [u'Biotechnology'], []]
[u'Effect of Auxins and Associated Metabolic Changes on Cuttings of Hybrid Aspen', ['Shao Peng Yan', 'Rui Hua Yang', 'Fang Wang', 'Li Na Sun', 'Xing Shun Song'], u'March 30 2017', u'In the present study, an attempt was made to induce rooting from single-node cuttings of hybrid aspen (Populus tremula L. \xd7P. tremuloides Michx.) with different concentrations of IAA, IBA and NAA during rooting. Among the three auxins used, NAA showed more effective induction on rooting as compared to IAA and IBA at the whole level. Thereafter, NAA was used further in experiments for anatomical and biochemical investigation. The results showed that it took 12 days from the differentiation of primordium to the appearance\xa0of young adventitious roots with NAA application. It was found that endogenous IAA, ZR and GA3 levels increased, but ABA decreased in cuttings with 0.54 mM NAA treatment. In contrast to the endogenous IAA level, NAA had negative effect on IAA-oxidase (IAAO) activity. Similarly, the decreased peroxidase (POD) activity, consistent with down-regulation of expressed levels of POD1 and POD2, was observed in NAA-treated cuttings. Whereas, NAA resulted in a higher activity in polyphenol oxidase (PPO) compared to the control cuttings. Collectively, the study highlighted that 0.54 mM NAA is efficient on rooting in hybrid aspen, and its effect on metabolic changes during rooting is discussed, which provide valuable information for propagating hybrid aspen.', u'/manuscript/201703.0218/v1', [u'Biotechnology'], []]
[u'Valproic Acid Induces Endocytosis-Mediated Doxorubicin Internalization and Shows Synergistic Anti-Proliferation Effects in Hepatocellular Carcinoma Cells', ['Subbroto Kumar Saha', 'Yingfu Yin', 'Kyeongseok Kim', 'Gwang-Mo Yang', 'Ahmed Abdal Dayem', 'Hye Yeon Choi', 'Ssang-goo Cho'], u'March 31 2017', u'We evaluated the mono- and combination-therapy effects of valproic acid (VPA) and doxorubicin (DOX) in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and identified a specific and efficient, synergistic anti-proliferative effect of the VPA and DOX combination in HCC cells, especially HepG2 cells; this effect was not apparent in MIHA cells, a normal hepatocyte cell line. The calculation of the coefficient of drug interaction confirmed the significant synergistic effect of the combination treatment. Concurrently, the synergistic apoptotic cell death caused by the VPA and DOX combination treatment was confirmed by Hoechst nuclear staining and western blot analysis of caspase-3 and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) activation. Co-treatment with VPA and DOX enhanced reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation and autophagy, which were clearly attenuated by ROS and autophagy inhibitors, respectively. Furthermore, as an indication of the mechanism underlying the synergistic effect, we observed that DOX internalization, which was induced in the VPA and DOX combination-treated group, occurred via by the caveolae-mediated endocytosis pathway. Taken together, our study uncovered the potential effect of the VPA and DOX combination treatment with regard to cell death, including induction of cellular ROS, autophagy, and the caveolae-mediated endocytosis pathway. Therefore, these results present novel implications in drug delivery research for the treatment of HCC.', u'/manuscript/201703.0237/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], []]
[u'Social Determinants of Health and Epigenetics: A New Tool for Health Policy', ['Hitakshi Sehgal', 'William Toscano'], u'March 31 2017', u'Globally, humans are struggling with the double threat of communicable and non-communicable diseases, which are presenting new challenges to public health. Public health problems are generally studied and addressed at primary, secondary and tertiary levels. Most effective results are seen with primary interventions. Public health is becoming more aware of the importance of environment-gene interactions in the ontology of health and disease using epigenetics. Epigenetics is the study of altered gene expression without change in base pairs. Be it physical, social, behavioral, or economic factors; they all influence quality of life and health of individuals and populations. That environments are changing the human health phenotype and these changed phenotypes are heritable is of concern for the future of the human race. Knowing the causes of non-communicable human diseases using epigenetics will contribute to the development of new policies to encourage prevention using primary public health initiatives. Research and application of epigenetics shows great promise for improving population health. Continued advances in epigenetics will enhance how we understand and address the way environments are affecting the human health phenotype. For some time, health systems have been and continue to be tertiary in nature. Epigenetic changes can provide information necessary to better understand how social determinants of health can be used to build societies focused on equitable health for all people, rather than continuing to focus on treatment of diseases in the tertiary phase that leads to health disparities. Understanding mechanisms of social determinants of disease, will allow society to evolve in a health-oriented rather than a disease-oriented world. For this reason, we must enhance and apply epigenetics (physical, social, behavioral, economic) research to policy development. We will discuss how bringing social determinants together with biology can be used as new tools for public health policy.', u'/manuscript/201703.0235/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], []]
[u'New Link between Skin Microbiota Diversity and Skin Health: Proposal to Use This as a Mechanism to Determine Whether Cosmetic Products Damage the Skin and Are a Cause of the Skin Allergy Epidemic', ['Christopher Wallen-Russell', 'Sam Wallen-Russell'], u'March 31 2017', u'There is a skin allergy epidemic in the western world, and the rate of deterioration has increased significantly in the past 5-10 years. It is probable that there are many environmental contributing factors, yet some studies have linked it primarily to the rise in the use of synthetic chemical ingredients in modern cosmetics. Our challenge, therefore, was to find a mechanism to determine the effect these substances have on skin health, and whether they really are a primary cause of long term damage to the skin. The first problem is the lack of any definitive way to measure skin health. Motivated by the overwhelming evidence for a link between deficient gut flora and ill health, we decided to look at whether our skin microbiota could similarly be used as an indicator of skin health. Our research illustrates how it is microbiota diversity alone that can predict whether skin is healthy or not, after we revealed a complete lack of conclusive findings linking the presence or abundance of particular species of microbe to skin problems. This phenomenon is replicated throughout nature, where high biodiversity always leads to healthy ecosystems. \u2018Caveman\u2019 skin, untouched by modern civilisation, was far different to \u2018western\u2019 skin and displayed unprecedented levels of bacterial diversity. The less exposed communities were to western practices, the higher the skin diversity, which is clear evidence of an environmental factor in the developed world damaging skin. For the first time we propose benchmark values of diversity against which we can measure skin to determine how healthy it is. This gives us the ability to be able to predict which people are more likely to be prone to skin ailments, and start to test whether cosmetic ingredients and products are a main cause of the skin allergy epidemic.', u'/manuscript/201703.0227/v1', [u'Dermatology'], []]
[u'Fasudil Attenuates LPS-Induced Acute Lung Injury by Preventing Endothelial Dysfunction', ['Jingjing Wang', 'Jian Xu', 'Xinyun Zhao', 'Weiping Xie', 'Hong Wang', 'Hui Kong'], u'March 31 2017', u'Fasudil, a potent Rho kinase (ROCK) inhibitor, can ameliorate LPS-induced acute lung injury (ALI) in mice, but the mechanism remains obscure. In this study, a mice model of ALI was established by intra-tracheal instillation of LPS. Histological changes, cytokine levels, lung permeability, and endothelial apoptosis were determined to evaluate the effects of fasudil on lung injury. The cellular and molecular biological mechanisms were explored by culturing human pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells (PMECs). The results showed that fasudil reduced LPS-induced lung inflammation, pulmonary hyperpermeability, and endothelial apoptosis in mice. In cultured human PMECs, fasudil inhibited LPS-induced caspse-3 cleavage and cell apoptosis. It also decreased LPS-induced hyperpermeability of human PMECs monolayer by reversing the down-regulation of intercellular junctions. Moreover, fasudil inhibited LPS-induced overexpression of chemokines and intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM)-1 in human PMECs, which in turn suppressed neutrophil chemotaxis and neutrophil-endothelial adhesion. Further molecular researches showed fasudil inhibited LPS-induced activation of ROCK, NF-\u03baB, and p38 in human PMECs. Our findings demonstrated that fasudil alleviated LPS-induced ALI by protecting endothelial function via inhibiting endothelial apoptosis, maintaining endothelial barrier integrity, and reducing endothelial inflammation. These effects of fasudil could be attributed to the inhibition of ROCK and its downstream NF-\u03baB and p38 signaling pathways.', u'/manuscript/201703.0225/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], []]
[u'Hypoxia and Inflammation in Cancer, Focus on HIF and NF-\u043aB', ["Laura D'Ignazio", 'Michael Batie', 'Sonia Rocha'], u'March 31 2017', u'Cancer is often characterised by the presence of hypoxia and inflammation. Paramount to the mechanisms controlling cellular responses under such stress stimuli, are the transcription factor families of Hypoxia Inducible Factor (HIF) and Nuclear Factor of kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-\u043aB). Although, a detailed understating of how these transcription factors respond to their cognate stimulus is well established, it is now appreciated that HIF and NF-\u043aB undergo extensive crosstalk, in particular in pathological situations such as cancer. Here, we focus on the current knowledge on how HIF is activated by inflammation and how NF-\u043aB is modulated by hypoxia. We summarise the evidence for the possible mechanism behind this activation and how HIF and NF-\u043aB function impacts cancer, focusing on colorectal, breast and lung cancer. We discuss possible new points of therapeutic intervention aiming to harness the current understanding of the HIF-NF-\u043aB crosstalk.', u'/manuscript/201703.0240/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], []]
[u'Green Tea Catechins for Prostate Cancer Prevention: Present Achievements and Future Challenges', ['Valeria Naponelli', 'Ileana Ramazzina', 'Chiara Lenzi', 'Saverio Bettuzzi', 'Federica Rizzi'], u'March 31 2017', u'Green Tea Catechins (GTCs) are a family of chemically related compounds usually classified as antioxidant molecules. Epidemiological evidences, supported by interventional studies, highlighted a more than promising role for GTCs in human Prostate Cancer (PCa) chemoprevention.In the last decades many efforts have been made to gain new insights into the mechanism of action of GTCs. Now it is clear that GTCs anticancer action can no longer be simplistically limited to their direct antioxidant/pro-oxidant properties. Recent contributions to the advancement of knowledge in this field have shown that GTCs specifically interact with cellular targets including, cell surface receptors, lipid rafts and endoplasmic reticulum, modulate gene expression through direct effect on transcription factors or indirect epigenetic mechanisms, interfere with intracellular proteostasis at various levels. Many of the effects observed in vitro are dose and cell context dependent and take place at concentration that cannot be achieved in vivo.Poor intestinal absorption together with an extensive systemic and enteric metabolism influence GTCs bioavailability through still poor understood mechanisms. Recent efforts to develop delivery systems that increase GTCs overall bioavailability, by mean of biopolymeric nanoparticles, represent the main way to translate preclinical results in a real clinical scenario for PCa chemoprevention.', u'/manuscript/201703.0239/v1', [u'Biochemistry'], []]
[u'The Transmembrane Morphogenesis Protein gp1 of 2 Filamentous Phages Contains Walker A and Walker B 3 Motifs Essential for Phage Assembly', ['Belinda Loh', 'Maximilian Haase', 'Lukas Mueller', 'Andreas Kuhn', 'Sebastian Leptihn'], u'March 31 2017', u'In contrast to lytic phages, filamentous phages are assembled in the inner membrane and secreted across the bacterial envelope without killing the host. For assembly and extrusion of the phage across the host cell wall, filamentous phages code for membrane-embedded morphogenesis proteins. In the outer membrane of E. coli, the protein gp4 forms a pore-like complex, while gp1 and gp11 form a complex in the inner membrane of the host. By comparing sequences with other filamentous phages, we identified putative Walker A and B motifs in gp1 with a conserved lysine in the Walker A motif (K14), and a glutamic and aspartic acid in the Walker B motif (D88, E89). In this work we demonstrate that both, Walker A and Walker B, are essential for phage production. The crucial role of these key residues suggest that gp1 is likely to be a molecular motor driving phage assembly. We further identified essential residues for the function of the assembly complex. Mutations in three out of six cysteine residues abolish phage production. Similarly, two out of six conserved glycine residues are crucial for gp1 function. We hypothesise that the residues represent molecular hinges allowing domain movement for nucleotide binding and phage assembly.', u'/manuscript/201703.0232/v1', [u'Virology'], []]
[u'Modulation of NMDA Receptor Activity in Fibromyalgia', ['Geoffrey Littlejohn', 'Emma Guymer'], u'April 3 2017', u'Activation of the N-methyl D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) results in increased sensitivity of spinal cord and brain pathways that process sensory information, particularly that which relates pain. The NMDAR shows increased activity in fibromyalgia and hence modulation of the NMDAR is a target for therapeutic intervention. A literature review of interventions impacting on the NMDAR shows a number of drugs to be active on the NMDAR mechanism in fibromyalgia patients, with variable clinical effects. Low-dose intravenous ketamine and oral memantine both show clinically useful benefit in fibromyalgia. However, consideration of side-effects, logistics and cost need to be factored into management decisions regarding use of these drugs in this clinical setting. Overall benefits with current NMDAR antagonists appear modest and there is a need for better strategy trials to clarify optimal dose schedules and to delineate potential longer \u2013term adverse events. Further investigation of the role of the NMDAR in fibromyalgia and the effect of other molecules that modulate this receptor appear important to enhance treatment targets in fibromyalgia.', u'/manuscript/201704.0006/v1', [u'Allergology'], []]
[u'Nrf2 Inhibits Periodontal Ligament Stem Cell Apoptosis under Excessive Oxidative Stress', ['Yanli Liu', 'Hongxu Yang', 'Yinhua Zhao', 'Min Zhang', 'Yongjin Chen'], u'April 4 2017', u'The present study aimed to analyze novel mechanisms underlying Nrf2-mediated anti-apoptosis in periodontal ligament stem cells (PDLSCs) in the periodontitis oxidative microenvironment. We created an oxidative stress model with H2O2-treated PDLSCs. Herein, we used real-time PCR, western blotting, TUNEL staining, fluorogenic assay and transfer genetics to confirm the degree of oxidative stress and apoptosis as well as the Nrf2 function. Surprisingly, we demonstrated that with up-regulated ROS and MDA levels, the effect of oxidative stress was obvious under H2O2 treatment. Anti-oxidative molecules were changed after the H2O2 exposure, whereby the anti-oxidative signaling of Nrf2 was activated with the increase of its downstream effectors, HO-1, NQO1 and \u03b3-GCS. Additionally, the apoptosis levels gradually increased with oxidative stress and changes in the caspase-9, caspase-3, Bax and c-Fos levels, but not with caspase-8 and down-regulated Bcl-2. The enhanced antioxidant effect could not resist the occurrence of apoptosis. Furthermore, Nrf2 overexpression effectively improved the anti-oxidative levels and increased cell proliferation. At the same time, overexpression effectively restrained TUNEL staining and decreased the molecular levels of caspase-9, caspase-3, et al, but not that of caspase-8. By contrast, silencing the expression Nrf2 levels had the opposite effect. Collectively, Nrf2 alleviates PDLSCs via its effects on anti-oxidative and anti-intrinsic apoptosis by the activation of anti-oxidative enzymes.', u'/manuscript/201704.0016/v1', [u'Physiology'], []]
[u'Incomplete Segregation of MSH6 Frameshift Variants with Phenotype of Lynch Syndrome', ['Raffaella Liccardo', 'Marina De Rosa', 'Giovanni Battista Rossi', 'Nicola Carlomagno', 'Paola Izzo', 'Francesca Duraturo'], u'April 5 2017', u'Background: Lynch syndrome, the most frequent form of hereditary colorectal cancer and involves mutations in mismatch repair genes. The aim of this study was to identify mutations in MSH6 from 97 subjects negative for mutations in MLH1 and MSH2. Methods: By direct sequencing, we identified 27 MSH6 variants, of which, nine were novel. To verify the pathogenicity of these novel variants we performed in silico and segregation analyses. Results: Three novel variants were predicted by in silico analysis as damaging mutations and segregated with the disease phenotype. While, a novel frameshift deletion variant that was predicted to yield a premature stop codon, did not segregate with the LS phenotype in 3 of 4 cases in the family. Interestingly, another frame-shift variant identified in this study, already described in the literature, also did not segregate with the LS phenotype in 1 of 2 affected subjects in the family. In all affected subjects of both families, no mutation was detected in other MMR genes. Therefore, it is expected that within these families other genetic factors contribute to the disease either alone or in combination with MSH6 variants. Conclusion: We conclude that caution should be exercised in counseling for MSH6-associated LS family members.', u'/manuscript/201704.0027/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], []]
[u'A Study on the Influence of Latin Dance and Tai Chi Exercise on Balance and Knee Joint Proprioception', ['Huihui Wang', 'Zhongqiu Ji', 'Guiping Jiang', 'Xibian Jiao', 'Weitong Liu'], u'April 6 2017', u'To study the influence of Latin dance and Tai Chi on knee joint proprioception and balance. Method: All experiments were performed in the Beijing Normal University School of Physical Education and Sport Biomechanics Laboratory. An isokinetic test system (Biodex system 4, BS4) and a balance testing system (Biodex Balance System, BBS)from the United States Biodex medical system were used to test related indexes. Results: In the LOS test, the overall score of Latin group is much better than sedentary group. In the ASL test, Latin group have a better balance ability in anterior and posterior direction and overall score than sedentary group(p\uff1c0.05); TAI CHI group have a better balance ability than sedentary group in anterior and posterior direction(p\uff1c0.05)and right and left direction (p\uff1c0.01). When the knee joint was at 15, 30, and 45degree positions, the Tai Chi exercise group was much better than sedentary group (P < 0.05), and the 45 degree position in the Tai Chi group was much better than that in the Latin dance group (P < 0.01).When the knee joint was at the 30 degree position, the quadriceps force sense was significantly better in the Tai Chi group than in the Latin dance and sedentary groups. In a test of the four angles, the hamstring force sense in the Tai Chi exercise group was obviously better than that in the sedentary group (P < 0.05); at the 15 degree position, the Tai Chi group was significantly better than the Latin group (P < 0.05); and at 30 degree position, the hamstring force sense of the Latin group was obviously better than that of the sedentary group (P < 0.05).', u'/manuscript/201704.0034/v1', [u'Sport Sciences & Therapy'], []]
[u'Association between Excessive Use of Mobile Phone and Insomnia and Depression among Japanese Adolescents', ['Tamura Haruka', 'Tomoko Nishida', 'Akiyo Tsuji', 'Hisataka Sakakibara'], u'April 7 2017', u'Adolescents spend an increasing amount of time on mobile phones. The aim of this study was to assess the relationship between duration of mobile phone use and insomnia and depression in senior high school students. The cross-sectional study was conducted on 295 senior high school students in Japan. Mobile phones were owned by 98.6% of students; 58.6% of students used mobile phones for more than 2 h daily and 10.5% used them for 5 h daily. The risk of insomnia was significantly high in students who used mobile phones for 5 h or more (OR: 3.89 [95% CI: 1.21-12.49]). There was no significant association between depression and duration of mobile phone use. However, individuals who spent 120 min or more using mobile phones for social network services (OR: 3.63 [1.20-10.98]) and online chats (OR: 3.14 [1.42-6.95]) were at risk for depression. Excessive mobile phone use is associated with unhealthy sleep habits and insomnia. Moreover, the excessive use of the social network services and online chats are related to depression rather than duration of mobile phone use. Adolescents should use mobile phones appropriately to avoid sleep disturbances and the impairment of mental health.', u'/manuscript/201704.0041/v1', [u'Nursing & Health Studies'], []]
[u'Iron Deficiency Anemia as a Risk Factor for Osteoporosis: A nationwide Population-Based Study', ['Mei-Lien Pan', 'Li-Ru Chen', 'Hsiao-Mei Tsao', 'Kuo-Hu Chen'], u'April 10 2017', u'The cause-effect relationship between iron deficiency anemia (IDA) and osteoporosis has not been established in the general population. Thus, the current longitudinal study determined the role of IDA as a risk factor for osteoporosis by analyzing a large nationwide population-based sample. In a sample of 1,000,000 randomly sampled individuals from the 1998-2012 Taiwan National Health Insurance Research Database, patients with IDA (case group [n=35,751]) and individuals without IDA (control group [n=178,755]) were compared. Patients who were <20 years of age and who had pre-existing osteoporosis prior to the diagnosis of IDA were excluded. Each patient with IDA was age- and gender-matched to 5 individuals without IDA. The diagnoses of IDA and osteoporosis (coded using ICD-9CM) were further confirmed with blood test results and X-ray bone densitometry to ensure the accuracy of the diagnoses. Osteoporosis occurred more often among patients with IDA compared to individuals without IDA (2.27% vs. 1.32%, p<0.001). Cox proportional hazard analysis revealed that the risk for osteoporosis was significantly higher in the case than the control group (hazard ratio [HR]=1.74; 95% CI=1.61-1.88) and remained similar after adjustment for covariates (adjusted HR=1.81; 95% CI=1.67-1.97). Compared with individuals without IDA, the risk for osteoporosis was even higher for patients with IDA who received intravenous ferrum therapy (adjusted HR=2.21; 95% CI=1.85-2.63). In contrast, the risk for osteoporosis was reduced for patients with IDA who received a blood transfusion (adjusted HR=1.47; 95% CI=1.20-1.80). As a predictor, prior IDA is a significant and independent risk factor for development of osteoporosis. In contrast to blood transfusion treatment, the use of intravenous ferrum may further increase the risk for future osteoporosis.', u'/manuscript/201704.0053/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], []]
[u'A Systems Biology Approach Using Transcriptomic Data Reveals Genes and Pathways in Porcine Skeletal Muscle Affected by Dietary Lysine', ['Taiji Wang', 'Jean M. Feugang', 'Mark A. Crenshaw', 'Naresh Regmi', 'John R. Blanton Jr.', 'Shengfa F. Liao'], u'April 10 2017', u'Nine crossbred finishing barrows randomly assigned to 3 dietary treatments were used to investigate the effects of dietary lysine on muscle growth related metabolic and signaling pathways. Muscle samples were collected from the longissimus dorsi of individual pigs after feeding the lysine-deficient, lysine-adequate, or lysine-excess diet for 5 weeks, and the total RNA was extracted afterwards. Affymetrix Porcine Gene 1.0 ST Array was used to quantify the expression levels of 19,211 genes. A total of 674 transcripts were differentially expressed (P \u2264 0.05); 60 out of 131 transcripts (P \u2264 0.01) were annotated in the NetAffx database. Ingenuity pathway analysis showed that dietary lysine deficiency may lead to (1) increased muscle protein degradation via the ubiquitination pathway as indicated by the up-regulated DNAJA1, HSP90AB1 and UBE2B mRNA, (2) reduced muscle protein synthesis via the up-regulated RND3 and ZIC1 mRNA, (3) increased serine and glycine synthesis via the up-regulated PHGDH and PSPH mRNA, and (4) increased lipid accumulation via the up-regulated ME1, SCD, and CIDEC mRNA. Dietary lysine excess may lead to (1) decreased muscle protein degradation via the down-regulated DNAJA1, HSP90AA1, HSPH1, and UBE2D3 mRNA, and (2) reduced lipid biosynthesis via the down-regulated CFD and ME1 mRNA.', u'/manuscript/201704.0052/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'Do Chinese Children Get Enough Micronutrients?', ['Huijun Wang', 'Dantong Wang', 'Yifei Ouyang', 'Feifei Huang', 'Bing Zhang'], u'April 10 2017', u'The aim of this study was to examine usual daily micronutrient intake of Chinese children based on data from the 2011 China Health and Nutrition Survey. We analyzed data from 4 to 17-year-old participants, who provided dietary data on 3 consecutive days combined with the household weighing method in 2011. Usual daily intake of each nutrient was estimated using a mixed effects model based on the China Food Composition published in 2002 and 2004. The means, medians and percent below Estimated Average Requirements (EAR) were reported for selected micronutrients, including calcium, sodium, potassium, iron, zinc, selenium, vitamin A, thiamine, riboflavin and vitamin C. For sodium and potassium, means and the distribution of intakes were compared to the Adequate Intake (AI) level. The average usual daily intakes of all micronutrients increase with age and the intakes of boys higher than girls in the same age group. The average of calcium intakes increased from 272mg/d in 4-6y to 391mg/d in 14-17y, but the percentage of inadequate calcium intake remained very high (>96%). The prevalence of inadequacy of calcium was the highest among the mineral nutrients reported in this study. As the requirement of micronutrient increased with age, the percentage of subjects with inadequate intake increased in 11-17 age groups. Among the 14-17y, the percentages of study participants with dietary intakes of calcium, iron, zinc, selenium, vitamin A, thiamine, riboflavin and vitamin C below the EAR were 96.8%, 18.8%, 37.6%, 72.8%, 36.8%, 91.8%. 85.9% and 75.5%, respectively. Among the 11-13y, the percentages of study participants with dietary intakes of iron, zinc and vitamin A below the EAR were 23.5%, 41.5%, and 41.6%, respectively. Thus, the micronutrients deficiency is a problem in Chinese Children. Nutrition education and intervention programs are needed to address the nutritional gaps.', u'/manuscript/201704.0049/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Vitamin D Deficiency Increases the Risk of Diabetic Retinopathy: A Meta-Analysis of Observational Studies', ['Xiang Zhang', 'Guo-Tao Pan', 'Zeng-Li Zhang', 'Shasha Tao'], u'April 11 2017', u'Background: Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is one of the most prominent pathological microvascular complications in diabetes. A series of studies reported that vitamin D deficiency was associated with increased prevalence of retinopathy in diabetic patients but the results were inconsistent. In this study we focused on evaluating the relationship between vitamin D deficiency and DR by conducting a meta-analysis of observational studies. Methods: Systematic computerized searches were performed in PubMed, MEDLINE, and the Cochrane Library for relevant original articles till November 20, 2016. The pooled odds ratios (ORs) with corresponding confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated to assess the associated value of vitamin D deficiency to the risk of DR. 9 studies including 6332 participants were subjected to final analysis. Results: The results indicated that vitamin D deficiency increases the risk of DR (OR = 1.57, 95% CI 1.32-1.87) with a little heterogeneity (I2 = 23%). In addition, the subgroup analysis demonstrated that there were obvious heterogeneities in T2DM (I2 = 47.8%). Sensitivity analysis showed that the results were relatively stable and reliable. Conclusion: our meta-analysis demonstrated that vitamin D deficiency could increase the risk of DR.', u'/manuscript/201704.0059/v1', [u'Endocrinology & Metabolomics'], []]
[u'Prognostic Significance of High Survivin Expression in Patients with Gastrointestinal Cancer: A Meta-Analysis', ['Pingping Xu', 'Jiajia Lin', 'Qi Lin', 'Dexiang Zhu', 'Wentao Tang', 'Zhengchuan Niu', 'Mi Jian', 'Yanru Wang', 'Chunmin Liang', 'Jianmin Xu'], u'April 11 2017', u'Previous studies on the prognostic impact of survivin expression in gastrointestinal (GI) cancer have yielded inconsistent results. This study was initiated to assess the relationship between survivin expression and overall survival (OS) or disease free survival (DFS) in GI cancer patients. We applied system literature searches on EMBASE, PubMed, Web of science, and the Cochrane library to conduct this up-to-date meta-analysis. Thirty studies with totally 3622 GI cancer patients were collected. The prevalence of high survivin expression in GI cancer was 0.57 (95% CI: 0.51-0.63). High survivin expression was significantly associated with shorter OS (HR 1.57, 95% CI: 1.42-1.74) and DFS (HR 1.38, 95% CI: 1.21-1.58). Subgroup analysis also showed significant association between high survivin expression and poorer OS or DFS in gastric cancer or colorectal cancer. In summary, our study indicated that high survivin expression was related to poor prognosis in GI cancer. Well-designed studies with large sample and more convincing data are needed to confirm our conclusion.', u'/manuscript/201704.0062/v1', [u'Gastroenterology'], []]
[u'Differential Effects of Various Soy Isoflavone Extracts on Bacterial Growth and Human Fibroblast Viability', ['Agata Rzeszotko', 'Aleksandra Blendowska', 'Grzegorz Wegrzyn', 'Karolina Pierzynowska'], u'April 13 2017', u'Flavonoids, compounds present in many dietary supplements, affect growth of different bacterial species when tested as purified or synthetic substances. Here, we asked if soy isoflavone extracts, commonly used in many products sold as anti-menopausal dietary supplements, influence bacterial growth similarly to synthetic isoflavone, genistein. Four commercially available products were tested in amounts corresponding to genistein concentrations causing inhibition of growth of Vibrio harveyi (a model bacterium sensitive to this isoflavone) and Escherichia coli (a model bacterium resistant to genistein). Differential effects of various extracts on V. harveyi and E. coli growth, from stimulation, through no changes, to inhibition, were observed. Moreover, contrary to genistein, tested extracts caused a decrease (to different extends) in viability of human dermal fibroblasts. These results indicate that effects of various soy isoflavone extracts on bacterial growth and viability of human cells are different, despite similar declared composition of the commercially available products.', u'/manuscript/201704.0070/v1', [u'Microbiology'], []]
[u'Synergistic Antibacterial Effects of Chitosan-Caffeic Acid Conjugate against Antibiotic Resistant Acne-Related Bacteria', ['Ji-Hoon Kim', 'Daeung Yu', 'Sung-Hwan Eom', 'Song-Hee Kim', 'Junghwan Oh', 'Won-Kyo Jung', 'Young-Mog Kim'], u'April 13 2017', u'The object of this study was to discover an alternative therapeutic agent with fewer side effects against acne vulgaris, which is one of the most common skin diseases. Acne vulgaris often associates with acne-related bacteria such as <i>Propionibacterium acnes</i>, <i>Staphylococcus epidermidis</i>, <i>Staphylococcus aureus</i> and <i>Pseudomonas aeruginosa</i>, some of which exhibit a resistant against commercial antibiotics used in the treatment of acne vulgaris (tetracycline, erythromycin, and lincomycin). In the current study, we evaluated <i>in vitro</i> antibacterial activity of chitosan-phytochemical conjugates against acne-related bacteria. Three of chitosan-phytochemical conjugates used in this study showed stronger antibacterial activity than that of chitosan (unmodified control). Chitosan-caffeic acid conjugate (CCA) exhibited the highest antibacterial activity against acne-related bacteria with minimum inhibitory concentration values of 8 \u03bcg/mL to 256 \u03bcg/mL. In addition, the MICs of antibiotics against antibiotic resistant <i>P. acnes</i> and <i>P. aeruginosa</i> strains were dramatically reduced in the combination with CCA, suggesting that CCA would restore the antibacterial activity of the antibiotics. The analysis of fractional inhibitory concentration indices clearly revealed a synergistic antibacterial effect between CCA and the antibiotics. Thus, the median \u2211FIC values against the antibiotic resistant bacterial strains were ranged from 0.375 to 0.533 in the combination mode of CCA and antibiotics.', u'/manuscript/201704.0076/v1', [u'Agricultural Sciences & Agronomy'], []]
[u'Diabetogenic Effects of Ochratoxin A in Female Rats', ['Firdevs Mor', 'Omur Sengul', 'Senay Topsakal', 'Mehmet Akif Kilic', 'Ozlem Ozmen'], u'April 13 2017', u'In this study, diabetogenic effects of long term Ochratoxin A (OTA) administration in rats were investigated and its role in the etiology of diabetes mellitus (DM) was examined utilizing 42 female Wistar rats for these purposes. The rats were divided into 3 different study and control groups according to the duration of the OTA administration. Rats received 45 \u03bcg OTA daily in their feed for 6, 9 and 24 weeks study groups. Three control groups without any treatment were also used in the same periods. Blood and pancreatic tissue samples were collected during the necropsy at the end of 6, 9 and 24 weeks. Plasma values of insulin, glucagon and glucose in study and control groups were determined. Pancreatic lesions were evaluated by histopathological examination; then insulin and glucagon expression in these lesions were determined by immunohistochemical methods. Statistically significant decrease in insulin levels in contrast to increases in glucagon and glucose levels in blood were observed. Slight degeneration in Langerhans islet cells were observed at the histopathological examination in all OTA treated groups. Immunohistochemistry of pancreatic tissue revealed decreased insulin and increased glucagon expression. This study demonstrated that OTA may cause pancreatic damage in Langerhans islet and predispose rats to DM.', u'/manuscript/201704.0078/v1', [u'Pathology & Pathobiology'], []]
[u'The First Results of Extended Newborn Screening in the Majority and the Roma Ethnic Group in Slovakia', ['Svetozar Dluholucky', 'Maria Knapkova'], u'April 14 2017', u'Authors present The First Results of the National Extended Newborn Screening (ENS) in Slovakia in the majority (M) and the Roma (R ) ethnic populations. The follow-up of the ethnicity has been introduced in Newborn Screening for Cystic Fibrosis (NSCF) and after to entire ENS program comprising of 23 Hereditary Metabolic Disorders (HMD). Results: In 2013-2015, a total of 165,648 newborns were investigated in ENS, 23,321 of them (15,3%) were the R ethnic group, a total of 313 positive cases were discovered (total ENS prevalence = 1:529, M=1:758, R=1:198). In the R ethnic group, there was slightly higher prevalence in cong. hypothyreosis (CH), only one case of CF, and no cases of CAH in the R ethnic group. The ENS prevalence of HMD detected by MS/MS was expressively higher in the R ethnic group than in M group (M=1:1670 vs. R=1:234, OR:7,13). Significant differences in the prevalence of individual types of HMD were found. Whereas the PKU and spectrum of aminoaciduria and organic acidurias dominate in the M group, the fatty acids oxidation disorders (MCAD, SCAD) and carnitine defects (CUD) were frequent in the R newborn group. Conclusion: Despite the presented results are preliminary, the ethnic approach to ENS is enabling the recording of the ethnic differences in the screening prevalence of individual disorders, which would be missing during unitary approach.', u'/manuscript/201704.0084/v1', [u'Pediatrics'], []]
[u'Isoprenoids Production from Lipid-Extracted Microalgal Biomass Residues Using the Engineered E. coli', ['Sumeng Wang', 'Jianming Yang'], u'April 14 2017', u'Microalgae are recognized as a third generation feedstock for biofuel production due to its rapid growth rate and lignin-free characteristic. In this study, the lipid extracted microalgae biomass residues was used as the material to produce isoprene, \u03b1-pinene and \u03b2-pinene with the engineered E. coli strain. We adopted an optimal sulfuric acid hydrolysis method to convert holocellulose into fermentable sugar efficiently (6.37 g/L) and explored a novel detoxification strategy (phosphoric acid/calcium hydroxide) to remove inhibitors notably. 55.32 % acetic acid, 99.19 % furfural and 98.22 % 5-HMF were cut down with the phosphoric acid/calcium hydroxide method, and the fermentation concentration of isoprene (223.23 mg/L), \u03b1-pinene (382.21 \u03bcg/L) and \u03b2-pinene (17.4 mg/L) using the detoxified hydrolysate as the carbon source account for approximately 86.02 %, 90.16 % and 88.32 % of those produced by the engineered E. coli strain fermented on pure glucose, respectively.', u'/manuscript/201704.0085/v1', [u'Biotechnology'], []]
[u'Effect of rice cooking methods on postprandial glycaemic response, satiety and palatability, and chewed particle size distribution', ['Louise Weiwei Lu', 'Bernard Venn', 'Jun Lu', 'John Monro', 'Elaine Rush'], u'April 17 2017', u'Background: Globally, hot cooked refined rice is consumed in large quantities and is a major contributor to dietary glycaemic load. This study aimed to compare the glycaemic potency of hot and cold stored parboiled rice to widely available medium grain white rice. Method: Twenty-eight healthy volunteers participated in a three treatment experiment where postprandial blood glucose was measured over 120 minutes after consumption of 140g of rice. Three rice samples were freshly cooked medium-grain white rice, freshly cooked parboiled rice, and parboiled rice stored overnight at 4 \xbaC. All rice was served warm at 65 \xbaC. Chewing time was recorded. Results: The 24-hours cold-stored and reheated parboiled rice resulted in a 42% and 12% lower blood glucose concentration trajectory than freshly cooked medium-grain white rice and freshly cooked parboiled rice. Chewing time for 10g cold stored parboiled rice was 6 seconds (25%) longer and was considered more palatable, visually appealing and better tasting than freshly cooked medium grain (all P<0.05). Conclusions:. For regular consumers of rice reheating cooked rice after cold storage would lower the dietary glycaemic load and long term may reduce risk for type 2 and gestational diabetes. More trials are needed to identify the significance.', u'/manuscript/201704.0092/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'Age-Related Diseases as Vicious Cycles', ['Aleksey V. Belikov'], u'April 18 2017', u'Age-related diseases (ARDs) are the leading cause of death worldwide, and contribute to 90% of mortality in developed countries. Interestingly, the mortality rates of individual ARDs increase exponentially with age. Processes described by the exponential growth function typically involve a branching chain reaction or, more generally, a positive feedback loop. Here I propose that each ARD is mediated by one or several positive feedback loops (vicious cycles). I then identify critical vicious cycles in five major ARDs: atherosclerosis, hypertension, diabetes, Alzheimer\u2019s and Parkinson\u2019s. I also propose that the progression of ARDs can be halted by selectively interrupting the vicious cycles and suggest the most promising targets. An evolutionary perspective is also offered.', u'/manuscript/201704.0102/v1', [u'Pathology & Pathobiology'], []]
[u'Identification and validation of SAA4 as a rheumatoid arthritis prescreening marker by liquid chromatography tandem-mass spectrometry', [], u'April 19 2017', u'Background: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic autoimmune disease that progresses into systemic inflammation and joint deformity. RA diagnosis is a complicated procedure, and early diagnostic methods are insufficient. Therefore, in this study, we attempted to identify new markers to improve the accuracy of RA prescreening. Methods: We identified differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) by using liquid chromatography tandem-mass spectrometry in health-prescreening sera with high rheumatoid factor (RF) values, and compared the findings with those from sera with normal RF values. Results: We identified 93 DEPs; of these, 36 were upregulated, and 57 were downregulated in high-RF sera. Pathway analysis revealed that these DEPs were related to immune responses. Additionally, four DEPs were statistically analyzed by proteomic analysis; of these, SAA4 was significantly validated in individual enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. Moreover, SAA4 was significantly upregulated in RA patients (n = 40, 66.43 \xb1 12.97 ng/mL) compared with normal controls (n = 40, 4.79 \xb1 0.95 ng/mL) and had a higher area under the curve than C-reactive protein. Thus, we identified SAA4 as a protein that was positively correlated with RF and RA. Conclusion: SAA4 may represent a novel prescreening marker for the diagnosis of RA.', u'/manuscript/201704.0123/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Regulation of G Protein-Coupled Receptors by Ubiquitination', ['Kamila Skieterska', 'Pieter Rondou', 'Kathleen Van Craenenbroeck'], u'April 21 2017', u'G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) comprise the largest family of membrane receptors that control many cellular processes and consequently often serve as drug targets. These receptors undergo a strict regulation by mechanisms such as internalization and desensitization, which are strongly influenced by posttranslational modifications. Ubiquitination is a posttranslational modification with a broad range of functions that is currently gaining increased appreciation as a regulator of GPCR activity. The role of ubiquitination in directing GPCRs for lysosomal degradation has already been well-established. Furthermore, this modification can also play a role in targeting membrane and endoplasmic reticulum-associated receptors to the proteasome. Most recently, ubiquitination was also shown to be involved in GPCR signaling. In this review, we present current knowledge on the molecular basis of GPCR regulation by ubiquitination, and highlight the importance of E3 ubiquitin ligases, deubiquitinating enzymes and \u03b2-arrestins. Finally, we discuss classical and newly-discovered functions of ubiquitination in controlling GPCR activity.', u'/manuscript/201704.0135/v1', [u'Biochemistry'], []]
[u'Early Childhood Dental Caries, Mouth Pain, and Malnutrition in the Ecuadorian Amazon Region', ['Marvin So', 'Yianni A. Ellenikiotis', 'Hannah M. Husby', 'Cecilia Leonor Paz', 'Brittany Seymour', 'Karen Sokal-Gutierrez'], u'April 24 2017', u'Malnutrition and dental caries in early childhood remain persistent and intertwined global health challenges, particularly for indigenous and geographically-remote populations. To examine the prevalence and associations between early childhood dental caries, parent-reported mouth pain and malnutrition in the Amazonian region of Ecuador, we conducted a cross-sectional study of the oral health and nutrition status of 1,407 children from birth through age 6 in the \u201cAlli Kiru\u201d program (2011-2013). We used multivariate regression analysis to examine relationships between severe caries, parent-reported mouth pain measures, and nutritional status. The prevalence of dental caries was 65.4%, with 44.7% of children having deep or severe caries, and 33.8% reporting mouth pain. The number of decayed, missing and filled teeth dmft) increased dramatically with age. Malnutrition was prevalent, with 35.9% of children stunted, 1.1% wasted, 7.4% underweight, and 6.8% overweight. As mouth pain increased in frequency, odds for severe caries increased. For each unit increase in mouth pain frequency interfering with sleeping, children had increased odds for underweight (AOR: 1.27; 95% CI: 1.02 \u2013 1.54) and decreased odds for overweight (AOR: 0.76; 95% CI: 0.58 \u2013 0.97). This relationship was most pronounced among 3-6 year-olds. Early childhood caries, mouth pain and malnutrition were prevalent in this sample of young children. Parent-reported mouth pain was associated with severe caries, and mouth pain interfering with sleeping was predictive of poor nutritional status. We demonstrate the utility of a parsimonious parent-reported measure of mouth pain to predict young children\u2019s risk for severe early childhood caries and malnutrition, which has implications for community health interventions.', u'/manuscript/201704.0146/v1', [u'Dentistry'], []]
[u'Five Phases Music Therapy (FPMT) in Chinese Medicine: Fundamentals and Application', ['Hui Zhang'], u'April 24 2017', u'Music therapy has served as complementary and alternative medicine for various neurological disorders. Five Phases Music Therapy (FPMT) employs the theory of five phases and five music scales or tones (Gong (do), Shang (ri), Jue (mi), Zhi (so) and Yu (la)) to analyze and treat mind-body illness. In Chinese Medicine (CM) the five music scales are used to connect the human body and the universe, summarize personalities and constitution and analyze the influences of climatic changes on health. FPMT has a self-contained theory and routine of practice application. Large amount of clinical and fundamental reports has been available and clinical benefits have been obtained. However more systemic clinic research esp. Evidence-based and random controlled trials must be performed to validate and optimize it\u2019s routines and biological and neurological mechanism must be further explored. It\u2019s reasonable to believe that the introduction of FPMT to the world outside China may attract more attentions to use this effective music therapy.', u'/manuscript/201704.0145/v1', [u'Psychiatry & Mental Health studies'], []]
[u'Inhibition of PARP Activity Attenuated Hepatic Triglyceride Accumulation in Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease in Mice', ['Shishun Huang', 'Bing Zhang', 'Yingli Chen', 'Huan Liu', 'Yang Liu', 'Xin Li', 'Zhiwei Bao', 'Zhenyuan Song', 'Zhigang Wang'], u'April 24 2017', u'The specific role of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) in hepatic triglyceride (TG) accumulation in alcoholic fatty liver disease (AFLD) were unclear. Poly ADP ribose polymerase (PARP) is a NAD-consuming enzyme and its specific role in the pathogenesis of AFLD is still elusive. In current investigation, we found that chronic alcohol exposure enhanced hepatic PARP expression and activity and lowered hepatic NAD+ level. PARP activity inhibitor PJ34 decreased the intracellular TG content in hepatocyte. Moreover, PJ34 suppressed the gene expression of DGAT1 and DGAT2 and elevated the intracellular NAD+ level in hepatocyte. These mechanistic observation was validated in alcohol-fed mice injected with PJ34 intraperitoneally. PJ34 injection attenuated hepatic TG accumulation in alcohol-fed mice. Further, the gene expression of hepatic SERBP-1c, DGAT1 and DGAT2 were lowered by PJ34 injection, while the hepatic NAD+ level was augmented by PJ34 injection in alcohol-fed mice. At last, the nicotinamide riboside supplementation alleviated hepatic TG accumulation in alcohol-fed mice. These data indicate that applying PARP specific inhibitor PJ34 by intraperitoneal injection attenuated hepatic NAD+ depletion and TG accumulation in alcohol-fed mice, which might be a potential candidate for AFLD therapy.', u'/manuscript/201704.0144/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'Retrospective Proteomic Screening of 100 Breast Cancer Tissues', ['Ida Pucci-Minafra', 'Gianluca Di Cara', 'Rosa Musso', 'Patrizia Cancemi', 'Nadia Ninfa Albanese', 'Elena Roz', 'Salvatore Minafra'], u'April 24 2017', u'The present investigation has been conducted on one hundred tissue fragments of breast cancer, collected and immediately cryopreserved following the surgical resection. The fragments were selected from patients with invasive ductal carcinoma of the breast, the most common and potentially aggressive type of mammary cancer, with the objective to increase the knowledge of breast cancer molecular markers, useful for diagnostic and prognostic categorization of patients, in assessing post-surgical therapeutic regimes. The proteomic screening, by 2D-IPG and mass spectrometry, allowed us to identify two main classes of protein clusters: proteins expressed ubiquitously at high levels in all patients, and proteins expressed sporadically among the same patients. Within the group of ubiquitous proteins, glycolytic enzymes and proteins with anti-apoptotic activity were predominant. Among the sporadic ones, proteins involved in cell motility, molecular chaperones and proteins involved in the detoxification appeared prevalent. The data of the present study indicates that the primary tumor growth is generally supported by two concurrent pathways: the inhibition of apoptosis and the stimulation of cellular proliferation. The second phase of the evolution of the tumor can be prematurely scheduled by the occasional presence of proteins involved in cell motility and in the defenses of the oxidative stress. To our knowledge this report on large-scales proteomics of breast cancer is currently a unique approach in the literature that offers the opportunity to evaluate the presence and recurrence of proteins to be used as prognostic indicators and susceptibility to metastasis in patients operated on for invasive ductal carcinoma of the breast.', u'/manuscript/201704.0142/v1', [u'Oncology & Oncogenics'], []]
[u'Water Bridging Dynamics of Polymerase Chain Reaction in the Gauge Theory Paradigm of Quantum Fields', ['L. Montagnier', 'J. Aissa', 'A. Capolupo', 'T. J. A. Craddock', 'P. Kurian', 'C. Lavallee', 'A. Polcari', 'P. Romano', 'A. Tedeschi', 'G. Vitiello'], u'April 25 2017', u'We discuss the role of water bridging the DNA-enzyme interaction by resorting to recent 1 results showing that London dispersion forces between delocalized electrons of base pairs of DNA 2 are responsible for the formation of dipole modes that can be recognized by Taq polymerase. 3 We describe the dynamical origin of the high efficiency and precise targeting of Taq activity in 4 PCR. The spatiotemporal distribution of interaction couplings, frequencies, amplitudes, and phase 5 modulations comprise a pattern of fields instantiating the electromagnetic image of DNA in its 6 water environment, which is what the polymerase enzyme actually recognizes at long range. The 7 experimental realization of PCR amplification, achieved through replacement of the DNA template 8 by the treatment of pure water with electromagnetic signals recorded from viral and bacterial DNA 9 solutions, is found consistent with the gauge theory paradigm of quantum fields.', u'/manuscript/201704.0154/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], []]
[u'Multifaceted Healthy Benefits of Mangifera Indica L. (Mango): The Inestimable Value of an Orchard Recently Rooted in Sicilian Rural Areas', ['Marianna Lauricella', 'Sonia Emanuele', 'Giuseppe Calvaruso', 'Michela Giuliano', "Antonella D'Anneo"], u'April 25 2017', u'Historically, Mangifera indica L. cultivations have been widely rooted in tropical areas of India, Africa, Asia and Central America. However, at least 20 years ago its spreading allowed the development of some cultivars, also in Sicily, the South of Italy, where the favorable subtropical climate and adapted soils represent the perfect field to create new sources of production for Sicilian agricultural supply chain. Currently, cultivations of Kensington Pride, Keitt, Klenn, Maya and Tommy Atkins varieties are active in Sicilian island and their products meet the requirements of local and European markets. Mango plants produce fleshy stone fruits rich in phytochemicals with an undisputed nutritional value for its high content of flavonoids, vitamins, micro- and macro-elements, vital for maintaining health. This review provides an overview of the antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and anticancer properties of Mango, a fruit that should be included in everyone\u2019s diet for its multifaceted biochemical actions and nutraceutical potential.', u'/manuscript/201704.0161/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Ranolazine alone or as a complement to the amiodarone for both prevention and cardioversion of atrial fibrillation: A meta-analysis of the literature', ['Renato De Vecchis', 'Carmelina Ariano'], u'April 25 2017', u'Introduction Recent evidence from relatively small randomized controlled trials would seem to support a useful role of ranolazine for the prevention and treatment of atrial fibrillation (AF). The present study is aimed at providing information about the possible beneficial anti-arrhythmic properties of\xa0\xa0 ranolazine. In particular, the meta-analysis carried out in this study focuses on the application of ranolazine to prophylaxis and treatment of atrial fibrillation.Methods Both\xa0 randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and\xa0 non randomized observational\xa0 studies concerning the effects of ranolazine on AF were included in the meta-analysis. In each of the considered studies, a comparison was made between a group of patients taking ranolazine and a second group treated instead with another antiarrhythmic therapy , or assigned to placebo. Efficacy outcomes were the risk of new- onset AF, the probability of conversion to sinus rhythm of patients with recent occurrence(\u2264 48 h)of AF and the time to conversion to sinus rhythm. Safety endpoints were death, adverse events, QTc\xa0 prolongation and hypotension.Results Ten studies ( 8 RCTs and 2 nonrandomized observational studies) were gathered on the whole. \xa0Ranolazine was effective in preventing\xa0the occurrence of AF when compared to controls (RR= 0.60; 95% CI: 0.43\u20130.83; p = 0.002). Subgroup analysis showed a more \xa0pronounced preventive effect \xa0of ranolazine against AF in the postoperative setting of coronary artery bypass grafting(CABG) surgery (RR= 0.39; 95% CI: 0.18-0.83; p=0.02) when compared to non- postoperative AF (RR= 0.76; 95% CI: 0.63-0.92; p=0.04). Ranolazine enhanced the chances of successful cardioversion when added to intravenous amiodarone compared to amiodarone alone \xa0(RR 1.18; 95% CI: 1.05\u20131.33; p = 0.004) and \xa0significantly decreased the \xa0time to cardioversion(SMD= \u221210.35 h; 95% CI: \u221218.13 hours to \u2212 2.57 hours; p < 0.001). Overall risks of death, adverse events, and QTc prolongation were shown to be similar in the comparison between patients treated with ranolazine and controls. Conclusions Ranolazine given orally at appropriate doses showed the property to significantly quicken the conversion of AF to sinus rhythm when combined with the iv amiodarone, compared to iv amiodarone alone . Furthermore, in patients in sinus rhythm, ranolazine\xa0\xa0 proved to reduce the frequency of new onset AF as well as of its recurrences, especially in patients undergone CABG surgery, known to be at high risk of developing postoperative AF. In addition, ranolazine use seems to be safe and associated with relatively few adverse events.', u'/manuscript/201704.0156/v1', [u'Allergology'], []]
[u'Carbon Stocks across a Fifty Year Chronosequence of Rubber Plantations in Tropical China', [], u'April 26 2017', u'Transition from forest-to-rubber (Hevea brasiliensis) plantation has occurred in tropical China for decades. Rubber has been planted in 1 million ha to provide raw materials to the rubber industry. The role of various-aged rubber plantations in C sequestration remains unclear. We examined C accumulation including latex C in five different aged stands (7-, 13-, 19-, 25- and 47-year-old), as well as C distribution in soil. The total biomass C stock (TBC) with above- and belowground and latex was age-dependent. Around 68% of the C was stored in aboveground biomass irrespective of age. The average net primary productivity (NPP) amounted for 6.2 Mg ha-1 yr-1 was not related to stand age. Hereinto, NPPlatex contributed to approximately 18% of C sequestration. Soil organic carbon (SOC) stock in the entire 100 cm depth remained relatively stable, but it lost about 16.8 Mg ha-1 with stand age. The total ecosystem C stock increased obviously with stand age, averaging 159.6, 174.4, 229.6, 238.1 and 291.9 Mg ha-1, respectively, of which more than 45% was stored in the soil. However, biomass would become the major C sink rather than soil over a 50-year life expectancy of rubber trees. Linear regression showed that in the long term (> 25 years) C stock for rubber plantation is comparable to or slightly higher than a baseline value of 230.4 Mg ha-1 for tropical forest in China (Zhou et al. 2000). This suggests that rubber plantation can be considered as alternative land use without affecting C storage in the forest ecosystem. In addition to the potential C gains, a full set of ecosystem and economic properties have to be quantified in order to assess the trade-offs associated with forest-to-rubber transition.', u'/manuscript/201704.0173/v1', [u'Forestry'], []]
[u'Peroxiredoxin 4 (PRDX4): Its Critical In Vivo Roles in Animal Models of Metabolic Syndrome Using Our Unique PRDX4 Transgenic Mice', ['Sohsuke Yamada', 'Xin Guo', 'Akihide Tanimoto'], u'April 26 2017', u'The peroxiredoxin (PRDX) family, a new family of proteins with a pivotal antioxidative function, is ubiquitously synthesized and abundantly identified in various organisms. In contrast to the intracellular localization of other family members (PRDX1/2/3/5/6), PRDX4 is the only known secretory form and protects against oxidative damage by scavenging reactive oxygen species in both the intracellular (especially the endoplasmic reticulum) compartments and the extracellular space. Recently, we generated unique human PRDX4 (hPRDX4) transgenic (Tg) mice on a C57BL/6J background and investigated the critical and diverse protective roles of PRDX4 against diabetes mellitus, atherosclerosis, insulin resistance, and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) as well as evaluated its role in the intestinal function in various animal models. Our published data have shown that PRDX4 helps prevent the progression of metabolic syndrome by reducing local and systemic oxidative stress and synergistically suppressing steatosis, inflammatory reactions, and/or apoptotic activity. These observations suggest that Tg mice may be a useful animal model for studying the relevance of oxidative stress on inflammation and the dysregulation of lipid/bile acid/glucose metabolism upon the progression of human metabolic syndrome, and that specific accelerators of PRDX4 may be useful as therapeutic agents for ameliorating various chronic inflammatory diseases.', u'/manuscript/201704.0171/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Cellular Morphology-Mediated Proliferation and Drug Sensitivity of Breast Cancer Cells', ['Ryota Domura', 'Rie Sasaki', 'Yuma Ishikawa', 'Masami Okamoto'], u'April 26 2017', u'The interpretation of the local microenvironment of extracellular matrix for malignant tumor cells is in intimate relation with metastatic spread of cancer cells involving the associated issues of cellular proliferation and drug responsiveness. This study was aimed to assess the combination of both surface topographies (fiber alignments) and different stiffness of the polymeric substrates (PLLA and PCL) and collagen substrates (coat and gel) to elucidate the effect of the cellular morphology on cellular proliferation and drug sensitivities of two different types of breast cancer cells (MDA-MB-231 and MCF-7). The morphological spreading parameter of (Nuclear/Cytoplasm) induced by the anthropogenic substrates has correlated intimately with the cellular proliferation and the drug sensitivity (IC50) of cancer cells. This study demonstrated the promising results of the parameter for the evaluation of cancer cell malignancy.', u'/manuscript/201704.0170/v1', [u'Cell & Developmental Biology'], []]
[u'Effects of Hydroalcoholic Extract of Celtis iguanaea on Markers of Cardiovascular Diseases and Glucose Metabolism in Cholesterol-Fed Rats', ['Barbara Zanchet', 'Denise B. Gomes', 'Vanessa S. Corralo', 'Kriptsan A. P. Diel', 'Amanda P. Schonell', 'Caroline Faust', 'Patricia Nicola', 'Liz G. Muller', 'Ana Paula Zanatta', 'Silvana M. Wildner', 'Fernanda Bevilaqua', 'Rafael Chitolina', 'Adrieli Sachett', 'Leila Zanatta', 'Marta M. M. F. Duarte', 'Greicy M. M. Conterato', 'Claudia Q. Rocha', 'Camile Peretti', 'Tatiane Brumelhaus', 'Nayara Souza Alves', 'Jean Carlo Olivo Menegatt', 'Fernanda Conte', 'Guilherme Serena', 'Adriano Tony Ramos', 'Francielli Cordeiro Zimermann', 'Walter A. Roman Junior'], u'April 27 2017', u'Celtis iguanaea is popularly used in the treatment of diabetes mellitus. However, thorough chemical and pharmacological investigations regarding its activity are lacking. In this study, we investigated the effects of the hydroalcoholic extract from C. iguanaea (CI) on markers of cardiovascular diseases and the glucose metabolism in cholesterol-fed rats. Therefore, hypercholesterolemic rats (1% cholesterol) were orally treated with CI (150, 300, or 600 mg/kg) or simvastatin (4 mg/kg) (n = 6) once a day for 30 days along with a hypercholesterolemic diet. A control group (C) was given saline solution. CI showed significant decreases in serum levels of total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, HMG-CoA-reductase, IL-1, IL-6, TNF-\u03b1, and IFN-\u03b3 when compared to group C (p \u02c2 0.05). Hypoglycemic effects were observed along with a decrease of the activity of sucrase (CI 600), maltase (CI 150, CI 300), and an increase in muscle glycogen levels (CI 300). Antioxidant effects were observed in plasma, and the histopathological analysis showed a significant decrease in the liver fat area for CI compared to group C (p < 0.001). Our results suggest that the biological effects of CI could be related to the presence of flavonoids that possibly exert antioxidant, enzymatic inhibitory, and insulin-mimetic effects.', u'/manuscript/201704.0179/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], []]
[u'Quantifying the National Significance of Local Areas for Regional Conservation Planning: North Carolina\u2019s Mountain Treasures', ['R. Travis Belote', 'G. Hugh Irwin'], u'April 28 2017', u'Conservation scientists recognize that additional protected areas are needed to maintain biological diversity and ecological processes. As regional conservation planners embark on recommending additional areas for protection in formal conservation reserves, it is important to evaluate candidate lands for their role in building a resilient protected areas system of the future. Here, we evaluate North Carolina\u2019s Mountain Treasures with respect to their (i) ecological integrity, (ii) role in connecting existing core protected areas, (iii) potential to diversify the ecosystem representation of reserves, and (iv) role in maintaining hotspots of biologically-rich areas not well protected. Mountain Treasures represent a citizen inventory of roadless areas and serve as candidates for elevated levels of conservation protection on U.S. federal lands. We compared Mountain Treasures to other candidate lands throughout the country to evaluate their potential national significance. While the Mountain Treasures tended to be more impacted by human modifications than other roadless areas, they are as important as other roadless areas with respect to their role in connecting existing protected areas and diversifying representation of ecosystems in conservation reserves. However, Mountain Treasures tended to have a much higher biodiversity priority index than other roadless areas leading to an overall higher composite score compared to other roadless areas. Our analysis serves as an example of how using broad-scale datasets can help conservation planners assess the national significance of local areas.', u'/manuscript/201704.0186/v1', [u'Ecology'], []]
[u'Glucose and Lipid Dysmetabolism in a Rat Model of Prediabetes Induced by a High-Sucrose Diet', [], u'April 28 2017', u'Glucotoxicity and lipotoxicity are key features of type 2 diabetes mellitus, but their molecular nature during the early stages of the disease remains to be elucidated. We aimed to characterize glucose and lipid metabolism in insulin-target organs (liver, skeletal muscle and white adipose tissue) in a rat model treated with high-sucrose (HSu) diet. Two groups of 16-week-old male Wistar rats underwent a 9-week protocol: HSu diet (n=10) \u2013 received 35% of sucrose in drinking water; Control (n=12) \u2013 received vehicle (water). Body weight, food and beverage consumption were monitored and glucose, insulin and lipid profiles were measured. Serum and liver triglyceride concentrations, as well as the expression of genes and proteins involved in lipid biosynthesis were assessed. The insulin-stimulated glucose uptake and isoproterenol-stimulated lipolysis were also measured in freshly isolated adipocytes. Even in the absence of obesity, this rat model already presented the main features of prediabetes, with fasting normoglycemia but reduced glucose tolerance, postprandial hyperglycemia, compensatory hiperinsulinemia, as well as decreased insulin sensitivity (resistance) and hypertriglyceridemia. In addition, impaired hepatic function, including altered gluconeogenic and lipogenic pathways, as well as increased expression of ACC1 and FAS in the liver, were observed, suggesting that liver glucose and lipid dysmetabolism may play a major role at this stage of disease.', u'/manuscript/201704.0185/v1', [u'Endocrinology & Metabolomics'], []]
[u'In Vitro Assessment of the Satiety Effect of Non-Added Sugar Biscuit Containing Stevia, Coffee Fibre and Fructooligosaccharides', [], u'April 28 2017', u'This study assessed the in vitro effects of the bioaccessible food components released during the simulated human digestion of a coffee fibre-containing biscuit (CFB) on \u03b1-glucosidase activity, antioxidant capacity and satiety hormones. This biscuit presented a significantly (p < 0.05) lower glycaemic sugar content (60.6 mg/g) and a higher antioxidant capacity (15.1 mg chlorogenic acid/g) than a sucrose-containing biscuit (SCB). The CFB significantly reduced (p < 0.05) \u03b1-glucosidase activity (IC50 = 3.3 mg/ml) compared to the SCB (IC50 = 6.2 mg/ml). Serotonin and glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) release by differentiated Caco-2 and HuTu-80 cells, respectively, were stimulated by the CFB (354.7 \xb1 42.7% and 277.9 \xb1 14.1%) to the same order of magnitude as those of the SCB. In conclusion, the CFB was demonstrated to reduce simple sugar bioaccessibility and to improve satiety.', u'/manuscript/201704.0189/v1', [u'Biochemistry'], []]
[u'Profile of Surrounding MicroRNAs in Low Density Lipoprotein Uptake', ['Maria Elisabete Silva Santos', 'Ricardo Sousa De Oliveira Paraense', 'Eric Artur Cortinhas-Alves', 'Danilo Leoncio Aguiar Pereira'], u'May 1 2017', u'The atherosclerosis, a chronic and inflammatory disease that occurs when there are high levels of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) on plasma. This important risk factor for development of cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the main cause of death worldwide. MicroRNAs have recently emerged as potential biomarkers and therapeutic target for lipid metabolism disorders. In this review, we will provide profile of surrounding miRNAs that have demonstrated being regulators of PCSK9, LDLR and APOB100 genes. Recent work has identified the mir-148, mir-128, mir-27a/b, mir-185, mir-301, mir-130 as important regulators of this pathway because they decrease supply of LDL receptors through interaction with PCSK9. Inhibition of LDLR expression cause elevation of plasma LDL levels which induces atherosclerosis. While mir-30c, mir-122, mir-34 decrease MTTP, which promotes degradation of APOB100 preventing assembly and secretion of VLDL. We conclude that, when overexpressed, mir-148a, mir128 and mir-27a/b, mir-122 and mir-34 are related to decrease in LDLR, facilitating occurrence of atherosclerosis. While mir-30 has been linked to decreased atherosclerosis. Detection of miRNAs profile could be used in the future as a biomarker for disturbs linked to c-LDL uptake and in future anti-miRNAs therapies may be used in the treatment of atherosclerosis.', u'/manuscript/201705.0019/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Oct-4 Regulates DNA Methyltransferase 1 (Dnmt1) Transcription by Direct Regulatory Element Binding', [], u'May 1 2017', u'The transcription factor Oct4 plays a pivotal role for the development of mouse preimplantation embryo, and DNA methyltransferase 1 (Dnmt1) maintains the changes of DNA methylation during mammalian early embryonic development. However, little is known of the role of Oct4 in DNA methylation in mouse. In the present study, Kunming white mice were used as an animal model to elucidate the correlation between DNA methylation and Oct4 during mammalian embryonic development. The expression of Dnmt1 and Oct4 were initially studied by real-time PCR, exhibiting different patterns during mouse preimplantation stage. Moreover, by using promoter assay and Chip analysis, we found that the transcriptional activity of Dnmt1 in mouse NIH/3T3 cells and CCE cells were both regulated by Oct4 through direct binding to -554 to -294 fragment of upstream regulation element of Dnmt1. Then, the downregulation of Dnmt1 expression level and enzyme activity by mouse Oct4 were further confirmed by transfecting Oct4 siRNA into mouse CCE cells. Our results indicate that the function of Oct4 is involved in DNA methylation by regulating Dnmt1 transcription, especially during the early stages of mouse preimplantation embryo development.', u'/manuscript/201705.0010/v1', [u'Animal Sciences & Zoology'], []]
[u'Expression of Pokeweed Antiviral Protein Isoform S1 (PAP-S1) and of Ricin-A-Chain/PAP-S1 Novel Fusion Protein (RTA/PAP-S1) in Escherichia coli and Their Comparative Inhibition of Protein Synthesis in Vitro', ['Yasser Hassan', 'Sherry Ogg'], u'May 1 2017', u'Fusion protein therapeutics engineering is advancing to meet the need for novel medicine. Herein, we further characterize the development of novel RTA & PAP-S1 antiviral fusion proteins. In brief, RTA/PAP-S1 and PAP-S1/RTA fusion proteins were produced in both cell free and E. coli in vivo expression systems, purified by His-tag affinity chromatography, and protein synthesis inhibitory activity assayed by comparison to the production of a control protein, CalmL3. Results showed that the RTA/PAP-S1 fusion protein is amenable to standardized production and purification and has both increased potency and less toxicity compared to either RTA or PAP-S1 alone. Thus, this research highlights the developmental potential of novel fusion proteins with reduced cytotoxic risk and increased potency.', u'/manuscript/201705.0015/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], []]
[u'Leptadenia reticulata (Retz.) Wight (Jivanti): Botanical, Agronomical, Phytochemical, Pharmacological, and Biotechnological Aspects', ['Sudipta Kumar Mohanty', 'Mallappa Kumara Swamy', 'Uma Rani Sinniah', 'Maniyam Anuradha'], u'May 1 2017', u'Leptadenia reticulata (Ritz.) Wight (Asclepiadaceae), a traditional medicinal plant species, is widely used in traditional medicine to treat various ailments such as tuberculosis, hematopoiesis, emaciation, cough, dyspnea, fever, burning sensation, night blindness, cancer, and dysentery. In Ayurveda, it is known for its revitalizing, rejuvenating, and lactogenic properties. This plant is one of the major ingredients in many commercial herbal formulations, including Speman, Envirocare, Calshakti, Antisept, and Chyawanprash. The therapeutic potential of this herb is because of the presence of diverse bioactive compounds such as \u03b1-amyrin, \u03b2-amyrin, ferulic acid, luteolin, diosmetin, rutin, \u03b2-sitosterol, stigmasterol, hentriacontanol, a triterpene alcohol simiarenol, apigenin, reticulin, deniculatin, and leptaculatin. However, most biological studies on L. reticulata are restricted to crude extracts, and many biologically active compounds are yet to be identified in order to claim the traditional uses of L. reticulata into evidence-based uses. At present, L. reticulata is a threatened endangered plant because of overexploitation, unscientific harvesting, and habitat loss. The increased demand from pharmaceutical, nutraceutical, and veterinary industries has prompted its large-scale propagation. However, its commercial cultivation is hampered because of the non-availability of genuine planting material and the lack of knowledge on its agronomical practices. In this regard, micropropagation technique will be useful to obtain true-to-type L. reticulata planting materials from an elite germplasm to meet the current demand. Adopting other biotechnological approaches such as synthetic seed technology, cryopreservation, cell culture, and genetic transformation can warrant conservation as well as increased metabolite production from L. reticulata. The present review summarizes scientific information on the botanical, agronomical, phytochemical, pharmacological, and biotechnological aspects of L. reticulata. This comprehensive information will certainly allow better utilization of this industrially important herb towards the discovery of lead drug molecules.', u'/manuscript/201705.0012/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Exosomes as Biomarkers and Therapeutic Targets in Pancreatic Cancer', [], u'May 1 2017', u'Pancreatic cancer (PC) is a highly malignant tumor with a poor prognosis; indeed, in recent years the incidence and mortality rate have increased. However, the lack of highly sensitive and specific molecular diagnostic markers makes it difficult to classify PC. Exosomes, cell-derived vesicles that contain bioactive molecules, play key roles in cell\u2212cell communication, a process that regulates diverse biological processes in cancer. Here, we highlight recent advances in the roles of exosomes in PC, focusing on their potential utility as diagnostic biomarkers and therapy targets. Although several biomarkers and therapies are being researched, we believe that advances in molecular biology techniques and testing of larger patient cohorts will improve targeted therapy for PC.', u'/manuscript/201705.0006/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], []]
[u"Gluten Sensitivity Biomarkers in Meni\xe8re's Disease: Is It a Gluten Related Disorder?", ['Federica Di Berardino', 'Diego Zanetti', 'Marina Socci', 'Luca Elli'], u'May 2 2017', u"Background: Meniere's disease (MD) has been recently linked to gluten assumption. Approximately 75% of MD patients show positive skin test to food and about 50% of the positive responses are specific to the gliadin acid extract fraction. Aim of this study was to investigate the humoral immune responses to wheat antigens and related autoantigens in MD patients. Methods. We assessed the reactivity of sera from 28 patients with definite MD and 100 healthy controls against a repertoire of 51 antigens usually associated with immune reaction to gluten. Results. MD patients showed an increase of anti-wheat IgA, anti-cerebellar peptide IgA and anti-glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) 65 IgM compared to healthy controls. In particular, the increase of anti-wheat IgA and GAD 65 IgM has been confirmed in a subgroup of MD patients symptomatically responding to a gluten free diet (GFD). Conclusion. In MD patients, an increase of the antibody production against gluten biomarkers was observed; in particular, anti-wheat IgA seems to be associated to clinical response to GFD.", u'/manuscript/201705.0023/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'Epigenetic Regulation of A Heat-Activated Retrotransposon in Cruciferous Vegetables', ['Kosuke Nozawa', 'Yuki Kawagishi', 'Akira Kawabe', 'Mio Sato', 'Yukari Masuta', 'Atsushi Kato', 'Hidetaka Ito'], u'May 2 2017', u'Transposable elements (TEs) are highly abundant in plant genomes. Environmental stress is one of the critical stimuli that activate TEs. We analyzed a heat-activated retrotransposon named ONSEN in cruciferous vegetables. The multiple copies of ONSEN-like elements (OLEs) were found in all the cruciferous vegetables that were analyzed. The copy number of OLE was abundant in Brassica oleracea, which includes cabbage, cauliflower, broccoli, Brussels sprout, and kale. Phylogenic analysis demonstrated that some OLEs transposed after the allopolyploidization of parental Brassica species. Furthermore, we found that the increasing number of OLEs in B. oleracea appeared to be induced transpositional silencing by epigenetic regulation, including DNA methylation. The results of this study would be relevant to the understanding of evolutionary adaptations to thermal environmental stress in different species.', u'/manuscript/201705.0022/v1', [u'Genetics'], []]
[u'Maternal Supplementation with RRR-\u03b1-Tocopherol (400 IU) and Its Relationship with Serum and Breast Milk Retinol', ['Juliana Fernades Dos Santos Dametto', 'Larissa Queiroz de Lira', 'Larisse Rayanne Miranda Melo', 'Marina Mendes Damasceno', 'Nathalia Lorena do Nascimento Silva', 'Roberto Dimenstein'], u'May 2 2017', u'Vitamin A and E are important during pregnancy, the neonatal period, and childhood. The objective of this study was to assess whether maternal RRR-a-tocopherol supplementation affects serum and breast milk retinol. Serum was collected at baseline and twenty days later, and breast milk, at baseline, and on days 1, 7, and 20 after delivery. After the baseline serum collection, the supplemented group (n=16) received a single 400 IU of RRR-\u03b1-tocopherol. The control group (n=18) was only performed collections. Retinol and alpha tocopherol levels were determined by liquid chromatography. Serum retinol and alpha tocopherol at baseline and 20 days after delivery indicated proper vitamin A (> 20 \xb5g/dL) and E (> 516 \u03bcg/dL) statuses in the control and supplemented groups (p > 0.05). Colostrum retinol levels on days 1 and 7 after delivery were significantly higher in the supplemented group (p = 0.018 and p = 0.012, respectively). Maternal vitamin E supplementation increased colostrum retinol by 52.23% and 111.2%, 24 hours and 7 days, respectively. However, retinol in mature milk did not differ between the groups (p > 0.05). In conclusion, the supplementation with 400 IU of RRR-\u03b1-tocopherol improved vitamin A bioavailability in breast milk.', u'/manuscript/201705.0024/v1', [u'Biochemistry'], []]
[u'Warming and Eutrophication Effects on Phytoplankton Community of Two Tropical Systems with Different Trophic States\u2014An Experimental Approach', ['Andreia Maria Da Anunciacao Gomes', 'Marcelo Manzi Marinho', 'Marcella Coelho Berjante Mesquita', 'Ana Carolina Coelho Prestes', 'Miquel Lurling', 'Sandra Maria Feliciano De Oliveira E Azevedo'], u'May 3 2017', u'Global warming, as well as europhication are predicted to promote cyanobacterial blooms, but how tropical phytoplankton communities from different trophic state systems respond to temperature variation is less known. To further explore the effect of temperature changes and nutrient addition on phytoplankton communities and to get insight in possible resistance to these effects, we tested the hypothesis that temperature variation will have a stronger effect on cyanobacteria dominance in eutrophic water than in oligo-mesotrophic. Hereto, we conducted an experiment with phytoplankton communities from two aquatic ecosystems differing in trophic state. Water samples from a eutrophic and an oligo-mesotrophic system were collected and incubated in 25 and 30\xbaC. Also, treatments that received additional surplus N and P were included that served as eutrophication treatments. Temperature variation itself did not promote cyanobacteria in either water from the oligo-mesotrophic or the eutrophic system. However, nutrient enrichment of water from the eutrophic system significantly boosted cyanobacteria, and biomass increased 10 times in both 25\xbaC and 30\xbaC treatments. In contrast, eutrophication of water from the oligo-mesotrophic system did not change the relative contribution of phytoplankton groups and response ratios were much lower than those for water from the eutrophic system. Although using a very simple experimental design, the results suggest that in eutrophic systems cyanobacteria dominance can be favoured by further addition of nutrients, independently of a direct temperature effect and that more pristine environments possess some resistance against eutrophication. Since global warming is assumed to intensify eutrophication symptoms indirectly, our study underscores the importance of nutrient control.', u'/manuscript/201705.0030/v1', [u'Ecology'], []]
[u'HepPar1-Positive Circulating Microparticles are Increased in Subjects with Hepatocellular Carcinoma and Predict Early Recurrence after Liver Resection', ['Valeria Abbate', 'Margherita Marcantoni', 'Felice Giuliante', 'Fabio M. Vecchio', 'Ilaria Gatto', 'Caterina Mele', 'Antonio Saviano', 'Damiano Arciuolo', 'Eleonora Gaetani', 'Maria C. Ferrari', 'Igor Giarretta', 'Francesco Ardito', 'Laura Riccardi', 'Alberto Nicoletti', 'Francesca R. Ponziani', 'Antonio Gasbarrini', 'Maurizio Pompili', 'Roberto Pola'], u'May 3 2017', u'Circulating microparticles (MPs) are novel potential biomarkers in cancer patients. Their role in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is under intensive investigation. In this study we tested the hypothesis that MPs expressing the antigen HepPar1 are increased in the blood of subjects with HCC and may serve as markers of early recurrence after liver resection (LR). We studied fifteen patients affected by HCC undergoing LR and used flow cytometry to assess the number of circulating HepPar1+ MPs. Ten subjects without HCC (five with liver cirrhosis and 5 with healthy liver) were used as controls. After LR, HCC patients were followed-up for early recurrence, which occurred in seven cases. The number of circulating HepPar1+ MPs was significantly higher in subjects affected by HCC, compared to individuals without cancer (p<0.01). We also found that, among HCC patients, the number of circulating HepPar1+ MPs, measured before LR, was significantly higher in those who displayed early recurrence compared to those without recurrence (p=0.02). Of note, other types of circulating MPs, such as those derived from endothelial cells (CD144+) or those produced by the activated endothelium (CD144+/CD62+) were not associated with HCC, neither could predict HCC recurrence. HepPar1+ MPs deserve further investigation as novel biomarkers of disease and prognosis in HCC patients.', u'/manuscript/201704.0181/v1', [u'Gastroenterology'], []]
[u'Selection of an Animal Model for the Production of Leukocyte-Fibrin Rich Platelet Membranes (L-PRF); Standardized Protocol Proposed for Clinical Use and the Use of L-PRF Wound Box\xae', ['Alessandro Crisci', 'Domenico Lombardi', 'Edda Serra', 'Guido Lombardi', 'Federica Cardillo', 'Michela Crisci'], u'May 4 2017', u'Fibrin rich of platelets (PRF\xae) of Choukroun represents a new step in the therapeutic concept of platelet gel with a simplified processing and biochemical changes little artificial. A valid method of preparation of the PRF must effectively separate the plates by erythrocytes and concentrate without damaging or lysing the plates themselves. In this study the experimental design is to standardize the production of L-PRF in horse directing it to human production. Our hypothesis is that the L-PRF is easy to produce in the horse, without modifications of the human protocol, thus allowing a better standardization of the human protocol. A new device for the preparation and the standardization of L-PRF clots and membranes is the L-PRF Wound Box\xae. The optical microscopy, most cell bodies were highlighted concentrated in the proximal portion of each membrane, the last 1/4 was observed at the center; the distal part had only residual traces of cell bodies. The L-PRF will form constantly when the phases described above are strictly adhered to. The success of the art L-PRF depends entirely on the speed of blood collection and transfer in centrifuge within a minute and by a temperature of centrifugation and compression is higher than 21\xb0C (between 21 and 30\xb0C). Our experiments on the horse will no doubt be able to improve our understanding on wound healing, in particularly in chronic skin lesions therapy.', u'/manuscript/201705.0037/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Disinfection of Water Borne Pathogens Escherichia coli and Staphylococcus aureus by Solar Photocatalysis using Sonochemically Synthesized Reusable Ag@ZnO Core-shell Nanoparticles', ['Sourav Das', 'Neha Ranjana', 'Ananyo Jyoti Misra', 'Mrutyunjay Suar', 'Amrita Mishra', 'Ashok J. Tamhankar', 'Cecilia Stalsby Lundborg', 'Suraj K Tripathy'], u'May 4 2017', u'Water borne pathogens present a threat to human health and their disinfection from water poses a challenge, prompting search for newer methods and newer materials. Disinfection of Gram-negative bacterium Escherichia coli and Gram-positive coccal bacterium Staphylococcus aureus in aqueous matrix was achieved within 60 and 90 minutes respectively at 35\u2070C using solar-photocatalysis mediated by sonochemically synthesized Ag@ZnO core-shell nanoparticles. The efficiency of the process increased with increase in temperature and at 55\u2070C the disinfection could be achieved in 45 and 60 min respectively for the two bacteria. A new ultrasound assisted chemical precipitation technique was used for the synthesis of Ag@ZnO core-shell nanoparticles. The characteristics of the synthesized material were established using physical techniques. The material remained stable even at 400o C. Disinfection efficiency of the Ag@ZnO core-shell nanoparticles was confirmed in case of real world water samples from pond, river, municipal tap and was found to be better than that of pure ZnO and TiO2 (Degussa P25). When the nanoparticle based catalyst was recycled and reused for subsequent disinfection experiments, its efficiency did not change remarkably even after three cycles. The sonochemically synthesized Ag@ZnO core-shell nanoparticles have a good potential for application in solar photocatalytic disinfection of water borne pathogens.', u'/manuscript/201705.0041/v1', [u'Microbiology'], []]
[u'Dynamics of H3K4me3 Chromatin Marks Take the Lead over H3K27me3 for Gene Regulation during Flower Morphogenesis in Arabidopsis thaliana', ['Julia Engelhorn', 'Robert Blanvillain', 'Christian Kroner', 'Hugues Parrinello', 'Marine Rohmer', 'David Pose', 'Felix Ott', 'Markus Schmid', 'Cristel C. Carles'], u'May 8 2017', u'Plant life-long organogenesis involves sequential, time and tissue specific expression of developmental genes. This requires activities of Polycomb Group (PcG) and trithorax Group complexes, respectively responsible for repressive Histone 3 trimethylation at lysine 27 (H3K27me3) and activation-related H3K4me3. However, the genome-wide dynamics in histone modifications that occur during developmental processes have remained elusive. Here, we report the distributions of H3K27me3 and H3K4me3 along with transcriptional changes, in a developmental series including Arabidopsis leaf and three stages of flower development. We found that chromatin mark levels are highly dynamic over the time series on nearly half of all Arabidopsis genes. Moreover, during early flower morphogenesis, changes in H3K4me3 prime over changes in H3K27me3 and quantitatively correlate with transcription changes, while H3K27me3 changes occur after prolonged expression changes. Notably, early activation of PcG target genes is dominated by increases in H3K4me3 while H3K27me3 remains present at the locus. Our results reveal H3K4me3 as greater predictor over H3K27me3 for transcription dynamics, unveil unexpected chromatin mechanisms at gene activation and underline the relevance of tissue-specific temporal epigenomics.', u'/manuscript/201705.0070/v1', [u'Plant Sciences'], []]
[u'Neurophysiological Changes Induced by Chronic Toxoplasma gondii Infection', ['Ellen Tedford', 'Glenn McConkey'], u'May 8 2017', u'Although the parasite Toxoplasma gondii is one of the most pervasive neurotropic pathogens in the world, the host-parasite interactions during CNS infection and consequences of neurological infection are just beginning to be unraveled. The chronic stages of infection have been considered dormant, although several studies have found correlations of infection with an array of host behavioral changes. These may facilitate parasite transmission and impact neurological diseases. During infection, in addition to the presence of the parasites within neurons, host-mediated neuroimmune and hormonal responses to infection are also present. T. gondii induces numerous changes to host neurons during infection and globally alters host neurological signaling pathways, as discussed in this review. Understanding the neurophysiological changes in the host brain is imperative to understanding the parasitic mechanisms and to delineate the effects of this single-celled parasite on health and its contribution to neurological disease.', u'/manuscript/201705.0071/v1', [u'Pathology & Pathobiology'], []]
[u'Potential Cost-Effectiveness of Pre-exposure Prophylaxis Combined with HIV Vaccines in the United States', ['Blythe J.S. Adamson', 'Josh J. Carlson', 'James G. Kublin', 'Louis P. Garrison, Jr.'], u'May 8 2017', u'This economic evaluation aims to support policy-making on the combined use of pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) with HIV vaccines by evaluating the potential cost-effectiveness of implementation that would support the design of clinical trials for assessment of combined product safety and efficacy. The target study population is a cohort of men who have sex with men (MSM) in the United States. Policy strategies considered include standard HIV prevention, daily oral PrEP, HIV vaccine, and their combination. We constructed a Markov model based on clinical trial data and published literature. We used a payer perspective, monthly cycle length, a lifetime horizon, and a 3% discount rate. We assumed a price of $500 per HIV vaccine series in the base case. HIV vaccines dominated standard care and PrEP. At current prices,PrEP was not cost-effective alone or in combination. A combination strategy had the greatest health benefit but was not cost-effective (ICER=$463,448/QALY) as compared to vaccination alone. Sensitivity analyses suggest a combination may be valuable for higher-risk men with good adherence. Vaccine durability and PrEP drug prices were key drivers of cost-effectiveness. Results suggest that boosting potential may be key to HIV vaccine value.', u'/manuscript/201705.0063/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Microbiome and Probiotics inHealth and HIV Infection', ["Chiara D'Angelo", 'Marcella Reale', 'Erica Costantini'], u'May 8 2017', u'Microbiota plays a key role in various body\u2019s functions, physiological, metabolic and immunological processes, through different mechanisms such as the regulation of the development and/or functions of different types of immune cells in the intestines. Several evidences indicate that alteration in the gut microbiota can influence infectious and non-infectious diseases. Bacteria that resides on the mucosal surface or within the mucus layer participate in interactions with the host immune system, and a healthy gut microbiota is essential for the development of mucosal immunity. The immunomodulatory activity of probiotics has been proposed in several bowel disorders or in aging-related dysfunctions. In HIV infected patients, the intestinal immune system is affected and inflammation persists during ART therapy too. Several studies are in progress to investigate the ability of probiotics to modulate epithelial barrier functions, microbiota composition and microbial translocation in HIV infection. This mini-review aims to suggest how the use of probiotics is beneficial not only in maintaining a healthy status but also to improve conditions in HIV subjects.', u'/manuscript/201705.0062/v1', [u'Immunology'], []]
[u'TRIM28 is Overexpressed in Osteosarcoma and Associated with Tumor Progression', ['Yanfen Cui', 'Zhaosong Wang', 'Shaobin Yang', 'Yue Xu', 'Xin Fu'], u'May 8 2017', u'Tripartite motif containing 28 (TRIM28) is a transcriptional co-factor with pleiotropic biological activities, especially in tumor cells. In this study, expression levels of TRIM28 in osteosarcoma (OS) tissues and the correlations with clinicopathological variables were investigated in 87 OS cases, meanwhile, cell and animal experiments were performed to detect the biological functions of TRIM28. The results showed that TRIM28 was overexpressed in OS tissues compared with normal bones, and TRIM28 expression correlated significantly with tumor diameter (\u03c72 = 4.06, p=0.04), metastasis (\u03c72 =11.10, p< 0.01) and clinical stage (\u03c72 =15.50, p< 0.01). Furthermore, patients with high TRIM28 level always had poor survival (p < 0.01). Functionally, TRIM28 knockdown significantly inhabited cell ability of proliferation and migration in OS cell lines of in vitro and in vivo experiments. Additionally, TRIM28 could significantly inhibited E-cadherin expression in reducing the stability of the TRIM28 mRNA. Therefore, TRIM28 overexpression was correlated with malignant progression of OS and poor survival of OS patients, and TRIM28 pathway may be a therapeutic target for OS.', u'/manuscript/201705.0058/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], []]
[u'Cloning and Characterization of an Alginate Lyase from Marine Vibrio. sp. QD-5', ['Yaxi Chao', 'Shuyan Wang', 'Suqi Wu', 'Jiaqiang Wei', 'Hao Chen'], u'May 8 2017', u'The string of bacteria, Vibrio. sp. QD-5 utilizing alginate, was separated from rotten kelp. The results of genome sequencing showed that the strain QD-5 contained four alginate lyase genes.One of the alginate genes Aly-IV was cloned and linked to the plasmid pET-22b (+). The heterologous expressed alginate lyase aly-IVwas characterized\uff0cwhich possessed the theoretical molecular mass of 62 kDa, and theoretical isoelectric point (pI) of 5.12. - The enzyme aly-IV was purified and the activity reached 1256.78 U/mg, with optimal temperature of 35 oC and pH value of 8.9. Nurtured in the temperature below 25 oC for 30 minutes, the activity was almost stable. The result also suggested that the activity of enzyme was strongly affected by - NaCl whose optimal concentration was 15 mM in a lab environment The TLC and ESI-TOF-MS analysis suggested that the enzyme aly-IV could degrade sodium alginate and polyG in endo-lytic type, producing monomer, dimer and trimmer. So, aly-IV can also be widely applied to make large scale preparation of alginate oligosaccharides with low degree of polymerization (DP).', u'/manuscript/201705.0055/v1', [u'Biochemistry'], []]
[u'Dietary Intake of Meat Cooking-Related Mutagens (HCAs) and Risk of Colorectal Adenoma and Cancer: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis', ['Manuela Chiavarini', 'Gaia Bertarelli', 'Liliana Minelli', 'Roberto Fabiani'], u'May 9 2017', u'Several evidences suggest that the positive association between meat intake and colorectal adenoma (CRA) and cancer (CRC) risk is mediated by mutagenic compounds generated during cooking at high temperature. A number of epidemiological studies have estimated the effect of meat-related mutagens intake on CRC/CRA risk with contradictory and sometime inconsistent results. A literature search was carried out (PubMed, Web of Science and Scopus) to identify articles reporting the relationship between the intake of meat-related mutagens (2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine: PhIP, 2-amino-3,8-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f] quinoxaline: MeIQx, 2-amino-3,4,8-trimethylimidazo[4,5-f] quinoxaline: DiMeIQx, benzo(a) pyrene: (B(a)P) and \u201cmeat derived mutagenic activity\u201d: MDM) and CRC/CRA risk. A random-effect model was used to calculate the risk association. Thirty-nine studies were included in the systematic review and meta-analysis. Polled CRA risk (15229 cases) was significantly increased by intake of PhIP (OR=1.20; 95%CI:1.13,1.28; p<0.001), MeIQx (OR=1.14; 95%CI:1.05,1.23; p=0.001), DiMeIQx (OR=1.13; 95%CI:1.05,1.21; p=0.001), B(a)P (OR=1.10; 95%CI:1.02,1.19; p=0.017) and MDM (OR=1.17; 95%CI:1.07,1.28; p=0.001). A linear and curvilinear trend was observed in dose-response meta-analisis between CRA risk in association with PhIP and MDM, MeIQx, respectively. CRC risk (21344 cases) was increased by uptake of MeIQx (OR=1.14; 95%CI:1.04,1.25; p=0.004), DiMeIQx (OR=1.12; 95%CI:1.02,1.22; p=0.014) and MDM (OR=1.12; 95%CI:1.06,1.19; p<0.001). No publication bias could be detected whereas heterogeneity was in some cases rather high. Mutagenic compounds formed during cooking of meat at high temperature may be responsible of its carcinogenicity.', u'/manuscript/201705.0079/v1', [u'Oncology & Oncogenics'], []]
[u'Hochu-Ekki-to Treatment Improves Reproductive and Immune Modulation in the Stress-Induced Rat Model of Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome', ['Eunkuk Park', 'Chun Whan Choi', 'Soo Jeong Kim', 'Yong-In Kim', 'Samkee Sin', 'Jong-Phil Chu', 'Jun Young Heo'], u'May 9 2017', u'The traditional herbal medicine, Hochu-ekki-to, has been shown to have preventive effects on viral infection and stress. This study aimed to evaluate the clinical effects of Hochu-ekki-to on two stress-related rat models of polycystic ovarian syndrome. Female Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into control and treatment groups, the latter of which were subjected to stress induced by exposure to adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) or cold temperatures. After these stress inductions, rats were orally treated with dissolved Hochu-ekki-to once per day for 7 days. Rats subjected to the two different stressors exhibited upregulation of steroid hormone receptors (in ovaries) and reproductive hormones (in blood), and consequent stimulation of abnormal follicle development accompanied by elevation of Hsp 90 expression (in ovaries). Treatment with Hochu-ekki-to for 7 days after stress induction increased immune functions, reduced the stress-induced activation of Hsp 90, and normalized the levels of the tested steroid hormone receptors and reproductive hormones. Our findings suggest that stress stimulations may promote the activation of Hsp 90 via the dysregulation of steroid hormone receptors and reproductive hormones, but that post-stress treatment with Hochu-ekki-to improves reproductive and immune functions in the ovaries of stressed rats.', u'/manuscript/201705.0073/v1', [u'Obstetrics & Gynaecology'], []]
[u'The Effect of Cotton Seed Cake, Lucerne Hay Supplementation on Intake of Maize Stover and Weight Gain by Male Sahiwal Bull', ['Khurshaid Anwar'], u'May 11 2017', u'The experiment was conducted at livestock research and development station surezai Peshawar during March 2012 to study the effect of cotton seed cake, Lucerne hay supplementation on intake of maize stover and weight gain by male sahiwal bull. Twelve (12) young Sahiwal bull breed, 280 kg average liveweight and 2 years of age were randomly put into 4 groups of 3 animals under intensive feeding system to determine the effect of different protein supplements on growth, and intake of chopped, dried maize stover. A control group was fed stover adlibitum only, and the other groups were fed daily 750 g cottonseed cake/head, 1 kg lucerne hay or 900 g of lucerne/cottonseed cake (66:34; w/w). Significant differences were observed on average daily live weight gains. Animals on lucerne and its mixture registered higher daily gains (243 g) and (330 g) respectively, followed by cottonseed cake (156 g); the control group lost weight (-8.0 g/d). Contrary to the live weight gains, animals fed on lucerne and its mixture had lower maize stover intakes, 3.35 kg DM/animal/day and 3.70 kg DM respectively, while those on cottonseed cake and the control group ingested respectively 4.72 kg DM and 4.16 kg DM maize Stover. It is concluded that during the critical period in the suburb of Peshawar, small-scale farmers can prevent loss in live weight by utilizing simple available rations.', u'/manuscript/201705.0092/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Successes of Restoration and Its Effect on the Fish Community in a Freshwater Tidal Embayment of the Potomac River, USA', ['Kim De Mutsert', 'Amanda Sills', 'C. J. Carroll Schlick', 'R. Christian Jones'], u'May 11 2017', u'After a local pollution control plant significantly reduced phosphorus loading into a phytoplankton-dominated tributary of the Potomac River in the early 1980\u2019s, water quality and biological communities were monitored bi-weekly from April-September. After a 10-year time-lag, submerged aquatic vegetation (SAV), once abundant in this freshwater tidal embayment, returned to the area in 1993. After additional reductions in nitrogen load starting in 2000, the system completely switched to a SAV-dominated state in 2005. Fish abundance didn\u2019t change during these distinct phase changes, but the fish community structure did. Increases in SAV provided refuge and additional spawning substrate for species with adhesive eggs such as Banded Killifish (Fundulus diaphanus), which is now the most abundant species in the embayment. Other changes seen were a decrease in the relative contribution of open water dwelling species such as White Perch (Morone americana), and an increase of visual predators such as Largemouth Bass (Micropterus salmoides). The 30-year record of data from this Potomac River tributary has revealed many important long-term trends that validate the effectiveness of initiatives to improve water treatment, and will aid in the continued management of the watershed and point source inputs.', u'/manuscript/201705.0096/v1', [u'Ecology'], []]
[u'Role of Zucchini and Its Distinctive Components in the Modulation of Degenerative Processes: Genotoxicity, Antigenotoxicity, Cytotoxicity and Apoptotic Effects', ['Damian Martinez-Valdivieso', 'Rafael Font', 'Zahira Fernandez-Bedmar', 'Tania Merinas-Amo', 'Pedro Gomez', 'Angeles Alonso-Moraga', 'Mercedes Del Rio-Celestino'], u'May 11 2017', u'Zucchini (Cucurbita pepo subsp. pepo) is a seasonal vegetable with high nutritional and medical value. Many useful properties of this fruit are attributed to its bioactive compounds. Zucchini fruits (\u201cYellow\u201d and \u201cLight Green\u201d varieties) and four distinctive components (lutein, \u03b2-carotene, zeaxanthin and dehydroascorbic acid)were selected. Firstly it was determinated the lutein, \u03b2-carotene, zeaxanthin and dehydroascorbic acid content in these fruits and then, in order to measure the safety and suitability of their use\xa0 different assays were carried out: (i) Genotoxicity and antigenotoxicity tests to determine the safety and DNA-protection against hydrogen peroxide; (ii) cytotoxicity and (iii) DNA fragmentation assay to evaluate the proapoptotic effect. Results showed that: (i) all the substances were non-genotoxic, (ii) all the substances were antigenotoxic except the highest concentration of lutein, (iii) \u201cYellow\u201d Zucchini epicarp and mesocarp exhibited the highest cytotoxic activity (IC50 > 0.1 mg/mL and 0.2 mg/mL, respectively) and iv) \u201cLight Green\u201d Zucchini skin and pulp induced internucleosomal DNA fragmentation . To sump up, Zucchini fruit could play a positive role in human health and nutrition due to this fruit and its components were safe, able to inhibit significantly the H2O2-induced damage and exhibit antiproliferative and pro-apoptotic properties toward HL60 tumour cells. The information generated from this research should take into account to select potential accessions for breeding programs purposes.', u'/manuscript/201705.0100/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'Yield and Milk Quality Parameters at Different Stages of Lactation from a Small Herd of Nguni, Boer and Non-Descript Goats Raised in an Extensive Production System', ['Emrobowansan M. Idamokoro', 'Voster Muchenje', 'Patrick J. Masika'], u'May 11 2017', u'This study was conducted to evaluate the yield and quality parameters of milk from 60 indigenous South African goats of different genotypes namely Nguni, Boer and Non- descript reared under a free ranging system. Milk yield and quality parameters (milk fat, protein, lactose, solid non-fat and minerals) from Nguni (10), Boer (10) and Non-descript (10) goats was measured and analysed per week at each stage of lactation. Result showed that, Nguni goats produced (1.2\xb10.09, 1.3\xb10.11 and 1.2\xb10.07 litres per day) more milk (P \u02c2 0.05) at early, mid and late stages of lactation than Boer (0.6\xb10.10, 1.0\xb10.17 and 0.6\xb10.09 litres per day) and Non-descript (0.3\xb10.10, 0.3\xb10.12 and 0.3\xb10.09 litres per day) goats, respectively. The mean value of milk fat, protein and lactose content from Nguni goat was (3.98, 3.54 and 5.31); Boer goat (2.9, 3.59 and 5.04) and Non-descript goat (4.05, 3.39 and 5.02), respectively. There was significant effect (P \u02c2 0.05) of genotypes on milk fat, milk magnesium and sodium contents of Nguni, Boer and Non-descript goats. It could be concluded that, Nguni goat produced more milk than Boer and Non-descript goats, but the Non-descript goat had higher mean percentage of milk fat compared to Nguni and Boer goats.', u'/manuscript/201705.0095/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'CS5931, a Novel Marine Polypeptide, Inhibits Migration and Invasion of Cancer Cells via Interacting with Enolase1', [], u'May 12 2017', u'CS5931, as a novel marine peptide with a molecular 6 kDa, was extracted and purified from the sea squirt Ciona savignyi. Previous study in our laboratory has shown that CS5931 can inhibit proliferation on several cancer cells significantly via apoptotic pathway. However, its molecular targets are unknown. In the present study, we found that CS5931 was bound to enolase1 (ENO1) specifically as analyzed using Pull-down/MS approaches. The interaction between CS5931 and ENO1 was further confirmed by Western blotting (WB) and Surface plasmin resonance (SPR) analysis. Further study showed that CS5931 was able to inhibit migration and invasion of HCT116 cells as analyzed by Transwell experiments and high expression of ENO1 reversed the effects of CS5931 on migration and invasion of cancer cells. Dot blotting analysis revealed that CS5931 is capable of interfering with the interaction among ENO1 and plasminogen as well as uPA/uPAR. The study provides solid evidence that there is an interaction between CS5931 and ENO1 and the interaction is responsible for the effects of CS5931 on cancer cell migration and invasion.', u'/manuscript/201705.0105/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], []]
[u'Novel Combination of Withaferin A and Sulforaphane Inhibits Epigenetic Machinery, Cellular Viability and Induces Apoptosis of Breast Cancer Cells', ['Kendra Royston', 'Neha Udayakumar', 'Kayla Lewis', 'Trygve Tollefsbol'], u'May 12 2017', u'With cancer often classified as a disease that has an important epigenetic component, natural compounds that have the ability to regulate the epigenome become ideal candidates for study. Humans have a complex diet, which illustrates the need to elucidate the mechanisms of interaction between these bioactive compounds in combination. The natural compounds withaferin A (WA), from the Indian winter cherry, and sulforaphane (SFN), from cruciferous vegetables, have numerous anti-cancer effects and some report their ability to regulate epigenetic processes. Our study is the first to investigate the combinatorial effects of low physiologically achievable concentrations of WA and SFN on breast cancer cell proliferation, histone deacetylase1 (HDAC1) and DNA methyltransferases (DNMTs). No adverse effects were observed on control cells at optimal concentrations. There was synergistic inhibition of cellular viability in MCF-7 cells and a greater induction of apoptosis with the combinatorial approach than with either compound administered alone in both MDA-MB-231 and MCF-7 cells. HDAC expression was down-regulated at multiple levels. Lastly, we determined the combined effects of these bioactive compounds on the pro-apoptotic BAX and anti-apoptotic BCL-2 and found decreases in BCL-2 and increases in BAX. Taken together, our findings demonstrate the ability of low concentrations of combinatorial WA and SFN to promote cancer cell death and regulate key epigenetic modifiers in human breast cancer cells.', u'/manuscript/201705.0102/v1', [u'Oncology & Oncogenics'], []]
[u'Flavonoid and Antioxidant Capacity of Propolis Prediction Usingnear Infrared Spectroscopy', ['Eddy Betances-Salcedo', 'Isabel Revilla', 'Ana M. Vivar-Quintana', 'M. Inmaculada Gonzalez-Martin'], u'May 12 2017', u'Propolis is a bee product widely used as a dietary supplement and included in sweets or baby foods due to its well-known antioxidant and nutritional properties that are directly correlated with its phenolic composition. For this reason, this study analysed the total contents of flavones and flavonols, flavanones and dihydroflavonols, and the antioxidant capacity by using the methods of ABTS and linoleic acid/\u03b2-carotene in 99 samples of propolis from Spain and Chile. A rapid method was developed for quantifying these parameters in raw propolis using near infrared (NIR) spectroscopy with an optical fibre probe of remote reflectance applied directly to the ground up sample. The models developed allow the determination of the total of flavones and flavonols (0-183 mg rutin/ g propolis), of the total of flavanones and dihydroflavonols (9-109 mg pinocembrin/ g propolis extract), and the antioxidant capacity by the ABTS method (0-3212 nmolesTrolox/ mg of propolis) and of linoleic acid/\u03b2-carotene (22-86% inhibition). The NIR spectroscopy models were applied in external validation to different samples of the calibration group, which led to the conclusion that the methods developed provide significantly identical data to the initial chemical data of reference.', u'/manuscript/201705.0106/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Long-Lived Epidermal Cancer-Initiating Cells', ['Marina Youssef', 'Andrew Cuddihy', 'Charbel Darido'], u'May 12 2017', u'Non-melanomatous skin cancers (NMSCs), which include basal and squamous cell carcinoma (BCC and SCC respectively), represent a significant burden on the population as well as an economic load to the health care system, yet treatments of these preventable cancers remain ineffective. Although primary prevention is possible through minimising sunlight exposure, the World Health Organisation estimates that between 2 and 3 million new cases of NMSCs are diagnosed each year, accounting for 1 in 3 of all newly diagnosed cancers. Furthermore, studies have estimated there has been a 2-fold increase in the incidence of NMSCs between 1960s and 1980s. The increase in cases of NMSCs as well as the lack of effective treatments makes the need for novel therapeutic approaches all the more necessary. To rationally develop more targeted treatments for NMSCs, a better understanding of the cell of origin, in addition to the underlying pathophysiological mechanisms that govern the development of these cancers, is urgent. NMSCs are generally thought to arise from specific types of stem cells that become the source of clonal expansion of tumourigenic cells. Previous research on SCC has alluded to these stem cells being localised in the basal compartment of the skin, which ordinarily houses the progenitor cells that contribute towards wound healing and normal cell turnover of overlying epidermal skin layers. More recent research has suggested that commitment to differentiation, which requires exiting the basal, progenitor-cell compartment, is a reversible mechanism. Genetic modifications engage differentiated cells into dedifferentiation, converting them into cancer-initiating cells (CICs) and thereby promoting a tumourigenic environment. Here we explore the most recent developments in the understanding of skin SCC cell of origin, and discuss a case study illustrating the loss of the Grainy-head like 3 (GRHL3) transcription factor in suprabasal layers, which confers a tendency towards tumour development and thereby challenging the \u201cstem cell\u201d theory of tumourigenesis.', u'/manuscript/201705.0108/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], []]
[u'Identification of Anthocyanins Compositions and Functional Analysis of An Anthocyanin Activator in Solanum nigrum Fruits', ['Shaoli Wang', 'Zhaohui Chu', 'Mingxing Ren', 'Ru Jia', 'Changbao Zhao', 'Dan Fei', 'Hao Su', 'Xiaoqi Fan', 'Xiaotian Zhang', 'Yang Li', 'Yingzi Wang', 'Xinhua Ding'], u'May 15 2017', u'Solanum nigrum fruits have been conventionally available as a material of beverage due to its nutritional substances such as minerals, vitamins, amino acids, proteins, sugars, polyphenols and anthocyanins. Here has rarely reported on the characterizaton of the components and the regulatory mechanism of Anthocyanins in S. nigrum. In this study, we determined that the peel and flesh of S. nigrum fruits shared the similar HPLC profiles, but the different contents and total antioxidant activities for Anthocyanins. After an efficient purification method mainly including extraction with pH 1.0 distilled water and then desorption with pH 1.0 95% ethanol after a DM-130 resin adsorption step to obtain more pure anthocyanins extracts, the purity of anthocyanins extract from S. nigrum fruits reached to 56.1%. Moreover, eight anthocyanins from S. nigrum fruit were identified with HPLC-MS/MS for the first time. A typical R2R3-MYB transcription factor gene, SnMYB, was also cloned for the first time by RACE-PCR from S. nigrum. Moreover, the contents of anthocyanins was shown a good correlation (r = 0.93) with the expression levels of SnMYB \xa0during the fruits developmental stages. Most significantly, SnMYB successfully produced high anthocyanins contents (1.03 mg/g) when SnMYB was transiently expressed in tobacco leaves. Taken together, S. nigrum fruits are a promising resource for anthocyanins extraction and SnMYB is an activator that positively regulates anthocyanins biosynthesis in S. nigrum.', u'/manuscript/201705.0113/v1', [u'Agricultural Sciences & Agronomy'], []]
[u'The Genetic Structure of Turnip mosaic\xa0Virus Population Reveals the Rapid Expansion of a New Emergent Lineage in China', ['Xiangdong Li', 'Tiansheng Zhu', 'Xiao Yin', 'Chengling Zhang', 'Jia Chen', 'Yanping Tian', 'Jinliang Liu'], u'May 15 2017', u'Turnip mosaic virus (TuMV) is one of the most widespread and economically important virus infecting both crop and ornamental species of the family Brassicaceae. TuMV isolates can be classified to five phylogenetic lineages, basal-B, basal-BR, Asian-BR, world-B and Orchis. To understand the genetic structure of TuMV from radish in China, the 3\u2032-terminal genome of 90 TuMV isolates were determined and analyzed with other Chinese isolates available. The results showed that the Chinese TuMV isolates from radish formed three groups: Asian-BR, basal-BR and world-B. More than half of these isolates (52.54%) were clustered to basal-BR group, and could be further divided into three sub-groups. The TuMV basal-BR isolates in the sub-groups I and II were genetically homologous with Japanese ones, while those in sub-group III formed a distinct lineage. Sub-populations of TuMV basal-BR II and III were new emergent and in a state of expansion. The Chinese TuMV radish populations were under negative selection. Gene flow between TuMV populations from Tai\u2019an, Weifang and Changchun was frequent.', u'/manuscript/201705.0109/v1', [u'Plant Sciences'], []]
[u'An Amyloidogenic Sequence at the N-Terminus of the Androgen Receptor Impacts Polyglutamine Aggregation', ['Emmanuel Oppong', 'Gunter Stier', 'Miriam Gaal', 'Rebecca Seeger', 'Melanie Stoeck', 'Marc-Andre Delsuc', 'Andrew C. B. Cato', 'Bruno Kieffer'], u'May 16 2017', u'The human androgen receptor (AR) is a ligand inducible transcription factor harboring an amino terminal domain (AR-NTD) hosting the ligand independent activation function. AR-NTD is intrinsically disordered and display aggregation properties conferred by the presence of a poly-glutamine (polyQ) sequence of 22 residues. The length of the polyQ sequence, as well as the presence of adjacent sequence motifs modulate this aggregation property. AR-NTD contains also a conserved sequence motif KELCKAVSVSM that displays an intrinsic property to form amyloid fibrils under mild oxidative conditions of its conserved cysteine residue. As peptide sequences with intrinsic ability to oligomerize are reported to have an impact on the aggregation of polyQ tract, we determined the effect of the KELCKAVSVSM on the polyQ stretch in the context of the AR NTD, using Atomic Force Microscopy (AFM). Here, we present evidence for a crosstalk between the amyloidogenic properties of the KELCKAVSVSM motif and the polyQ stretch at the AR NTD.', u'/manuscript/201705.0126/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Protective Effect of Chokeberry (Aronia melanocarpa L.) Extract Against Cadmium Impact on the Biomechanical Properties of the Femur: A Study in a Rat Model of Low and Moderate Lifetime Women Exposure to this Heavy Metal', ['Magorzata M. Brzoska', 'Alicja Roszczenko', 'Joanna Rogalska', 'Magorzata Gaazyn-Sidorczuk', 'Magdalena Mezynska'], u'May 16 2017', u'The hypothesis that consumption of Aronia melanocarpa berries (chokeberries) extract, recently reported by us to improve bone metabolism in female rats at low-level and moderate chronic exposure to cadmium (1 and 5 mg Cd/kg diet for up to 24 months), may increase the bone resistance to fracture was investigated. Biomechanical properties of the neck (bending test with vertical head loading) and diaphysis (three-point bending test) of the femur of rats administered 0.1% aqueous chokeberry extract (65.74% of polyphenols) or/and Cd in the diet (1 and 5 mg Cd/kg) for 3, 10, 17, and 24 months were evaluated. Moreover, procollagen I was assayed in the bone tissue. The low-level and moderate exposure to Cd decreased procollagen I concentration in the bone tissue and weakened biomechanical properties of the femoral neck and diaphysis. Chokeberry extract administration under the exposure to Cd improved the bone collagen biosynthesis and femur biomechanical properties. The results allow for the conclusion that consumption of chokeberry products under exposure to Cd may improve the bone biomechanical properties and protect from fracture. This study provides support for Aronia melanocarpa berries being a promising natural agent for the skeleton protection under low-level and moderate chronic exposure to Cd.', u'/manuscript/201705.0120/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], []]
[u'Aberrant DNA Methylation in Cholangiocarcinoma', ['Toshiaki Nakaoka', 'Yoshimasa Saito', 'Hidetsugu Saito'], u'May 16 2017', u'Cholangiocarcinoma is an epithelial malignancy arising in the region between the intrahepatic bile ducts and the ampulla of Vater at the distal end of the common bile duct. The effect of current chemotherapy regimens against cholangiocarcinoma is limited, and the prognosis of patients with cholangiocarcinoma is poor. Aberrant DNA methylation and histone modification induce silencing of tumor suppressor genes and chromosomal instability during carcinogenesis. Studies have shown that the tumor suppressor genes and microRNAs (miRNAs) including MLH1, p14, p16, DAPK, miR-370 and miR-376c are frequently methylated in cholangiocarcinoma. Silencing of these tumor suppressor genes and miRNAs plays critical roles in the initiation and progression of cholangiocarcinoma. In addition, recent studies have demonstrated that DNA methylation inhibitors induce expression of endogenous retroviruses and exert the anti-tumor effect of via an anti-viral immune response. Aberrant DNA methylation of tumor suppressor genes and miRNAs could be a powerful biomarker for diagnosis and treatment of cholangiocarcinoma. Epigenetic therapy with DNA methylation inhibitors hold considerable promise for the treatment of cholangiocarcinoma through re-activation of tumor suppressor genes and miRNAs as well as induction of an anti-viral immune response.', u'/manuscript/201705.0127/v1', [u'Biochemistry'], []]
[u'The Essential Oils from Pittosporum tobira Flowers Display Antiproliferative Properties and Inducing Apoptosis on Lung Carcinoma Cells', ['Yan-Fang Sun', 'Michael Wink', 'Zhang-Qi Wang', 'Hong-Fei Lu', 'Peng-Guo Xia', 'Hong-Tao Liu', 'Shi-Xian Wang', 'Yang Sun', 'Zong-Suo Liang'], u'May 17 2017', u'Background: Pittosporum tobira (Thunb.) Aiton is an aromatic medicinal plant widely cultivated in the world. However, the essential oils (EOs) from P. tobira flowers for anti-cancer potential is still not systematically studied. The present aim to elucidate the phytochemical composition of the EOs and to explore mechanism of anticancer action. Methods: The EOs were extracted and analyzed by headspace solid-phase microextraction (HS-SPME) with gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). Volatile components were identified according to Kovats retention index (KI) and NIST database. The anti-neoplasm mechanisms of the EOs was comprehensively investigated in lung carcinoma A549 and H460 cells. Results: A total of 47 secondary metabolites representing 94.18% of the EOs were successfully identified: monoterpenes and sesquiterpenes were the dominant terpenoids. The EOs exhibited antiproliferative activity on A549 and H460 lung carcinoma cells. Hoechst 33324 fluorescent staining indicated the typical characteristics of apoptosis and induced cycle phase arrest. AnnexinV/PI staining revealed that the number of apoptotic cells was increased. Furthermore, the EOs also induced the caspase-mediated mitochondrial apoptosis pathway. Conclusions: Findings suggest that the full-scale chemical composition and first characterization of anticancer activities of the EOs, it could be used for integrative natural anti-cancer agents in health care should be pay more attention.', u'/manuscript/201705.0132/v1', [u'Plant Sciences'], []]
[u'Phenotypic Plasticity and Cell Fate Decisions in Cancer: Insights from Dynamical Systems Theory', ['Dongya Jia', 'Mohit Kumar Jolly', 'Prakash Kulkarni', 'Herbert Levine'], u'May 17 2017', u'Waddington\u2019s epigenetic landscape, a famous metaphor in developmental biology, depicts how a stem cell progresses from an undifferentiated phenotype to a differentiated one. The concept of \u201clandscape\u201d in the context of dynamical system theory represents a high-dimensional cell state space, in which each cell phenotype is considered as an \u201cattractor\u201d that is determined by interactions among multiple variables (molecular players), and is buffered against environmental fluctuations. Further, biological noise is thought to play an important role during these cell-fate decisions and in fact controls transitions between different phenotypes. Here, we discuss these phenotypic transitions in cancer from a dynamical systems perspective and invoke the concept of \u201ccancer attractors\u201d \u2013 hidden stable states of the underlying regulatory network that are not occupied by normal cells. Using epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT), cancer stem-like properties, metabolic reprogramming and the emergence of drug/hormone resistance as examples, we illustrate how phenotypic plasticity in cancer cells enables them to acquire hybrid phenotypes (such as hybrid epithelial/mesenchymal and hybrid metabolic phenotypes) that tend to be more aggressive and notoriously resilient to drug/hormone treatment. Furthermore, we highlight multiple factors that may give rise to phenotypic plasticity in cancer cells, such as (a) multi-stability or oscillatory behaviors governed by underlying regulatory networks involved in cell-fate decisions in cancer cells, and (b) network rewiring due to conformational dynamics of intrinsically disordered proteins (IDPs) that are highly enriched in cancer cells. We conclude by discussing why a therapeutic approach that promotes \u2018recanalization\u2019, i.e. the exit from \u201ccancer attractors\u201d and re-entry into \u201cnormal attractors\u201d, is more likely to succeed rather than a conventional approach that targets individual molecules/pathways.', u'/manuscript/201705.0129/v1', [u'Biophysics'], []]
[u'Saturated Fatty Acids and Cardiovascular Disease: Replacements for Saturated Fat to Reduce Cardiovascular Risk', ['Michelle A. Briggs', 'Kristina S. Petersen', 'Penny M. Kris-Etherton'], u'May 18 2017', u'Dietary recommendations to decrease the risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) have focused on reducing intake of saturated fatty acids (SFA) for more than 50 years. While the 2015-2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans advise substituting both monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fatty acids for SFA, evidence supports other nutrient substitutions that will also reduce CVD risk. For example, replacing SFA with whole grains, but not refined carbohydrates, reduces CVD risk. Replacing SFA with protein, especially plant protein may also reduce CVD risk. While dairy fat (milk, cheese) is associated with a slightly lower CVD risk compared to meat, dairy fat results in a significantly greater CVD risk relative to unsaturated fatty acids. As research continues, we will refine our understanding of dietary patterns associated with lower CVD risk.', u'/manuscript/201705.0135/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'Neuroprotective Effect of Anthocyanin Extract from Lycium ruthenicum Murray in A\u03b21\u201342-induced Rat Model of AD', ['Xueling Wu', 'Xiaoxiao Li', 'Shuang Liang', 'Yanxia Liu', 'Xueling Dai', 'Qiusheng Zheng', 'Yaxuan Sun'], u'May 19 2017', u'Alzheimer\u2019s disease (AD) is an age-related neurodegenerative disease and is clinically characterized by cognitive impairment, memory loss, and personality disorder. Oligomers of amyloid beta-peptides (A\u03b2) and enhanced oxidative stress in senile plaques are prevalent pathologic hallmarks of AD. In this study, we detected the behavioral performance of Lycium ruthenicum Murray anthocyanin (LRA) -treated rats using the Morris water maze test and then investigated the effect of LRA on oxidative damage, neuronal apoptosis, and inflammatory response induced by A\u03b21\u201342. Our results showed that LRA treatment markedly ameliorated the behavioral performance of A\u03b21\u201342-induced rats and reduced the level of malondialdehyde, formation of protein carbonyl, and 8-hydroxy-2\u2019-deoxygua-nosine. Furthermore, LRA also inhibited activated astrocytes and neuroinflammation via suppression of glial fibrillary acidic protein and tumor necrosis factor-alpha in the hippocampus of A\u03b21\u201342-treated rat brain. These data suggest that LRA could be a potential anti-oxidant and anti-neuroinflammatory agent for the treatment of AD.', u'/manuscript/201705.0144/v1', [u'Animal Sciences & Zoology'], []]
[u'Molecular Characterization and Identification of Facilitative Glucose Transporter 2 (GLUT2) and Expression of Related Glycometabolism in Response to Different Starch Levels in Blunt Snout Bream (Megalobrama amblycephala)', ['Hualiang Liang', 'Ogwok-Manas Wilson-Arop', 'Haifeng Mi', 'Ke J', 'Xianping Ge', 'Mingchun Ren'], u'May 22 2017', u'Facilitative glucose transporters (GLUT) are transmembrane transporter of proteins involved in glucose transport across the plasma membrane. To date, there is no information about glucose transporter 2 (GLUT2) in blunt snout bream (Megalobram aamblycephala). In this study, GLUT2 were cloned and characterized from blunt snout bream, and its-expression in response to diets with different carbohydrate levels (17.1%; 21.8%; 26.4%; 32.0%; 36.3% and 41.9% of dry matter). In this study, the full-length cDNA of GLUT2 was 2577 bp, including a 5\u2019-untranslated region (UTR) of 73 bp, a 3\u2019-UTR of 992 bp, and an open reading frame of 1512 bp, encoding a polypeptide of 503 amino acids with predicted molecular weight of 55.046 kDa and theoretical isoelectric point of 7.52. GLUT2 has twelve across the membrane area locating at 7-29; 71-93; 106-123; 133-155; 168-190; 195-217; 282-301; 316-338; 345-367; 377-399; 412-434; 438-460 aimo acids respectively. Conservative structure domains located at 12-477 aimo acids belonging to sugar porter family major facilitator superfamily (MFS) transporter. The blunt snout bream GLUT2 showed high identity to their orthologs in other fish species and mammals. Quantitative real-time (qRT)-PCR assays revealed that GLUT2 expression was high in the liver, intestine and kidney; highest in the liver. Compared with the control group (17.1%), high dietary carbohydrate levels (32.0%; 36.3% and 41.9%) resulted in high plasma glucose at 3h after feeding, but high plasma glucose were back to basal at 24h after feeding. Furthermore, high dietary carbohydrate levels significantly improved the glycolysis and inhibitied gluconeogenesis by augmentation of GK and PK expression, inhibition of PEPCK and G6P mRNA levels (P<0.05). However, GLUT2; GK; PK; PEPCK and G6P mRNA levels were back to basal.', u'/manuscript/201705.0158/v1', [u'Agricultural Sciences & Agronomy'], []]
[u'The Normal Human Endometrium but not Myometrium Presents Menstrual Cycle-Dependent Fluctuations in the Immunoexpression of DNA Fragmentation Factor 40, DNA Fragmentation Factor 45, and B-cell Lymphoma 2 Protein.', ['Tomasz Banas', 'Kazimierz Pitynski', 'Krzysztof Okon', 'Marcin Mikos', 'Joanna Bonior', 'Artur Ludwin'], u'May 22 2017', u'Abstract: DNA fragmentation factors 40 and 45 (DFF40 and DFF45) and B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2) expression were evaluated in the normal human endometrium and myometrium. DFF40, DFF45, and Bcl-2 expression was assessed via immunohistochemistry in the proliferative, secretory, and atrophic endometrium and myometrium collected postmenopausally and premenopausally during the proliferative and secretory phases of the menstrual cycle. The endometrium showed significantly higher DFF40 and DFF45 expression than that in the uterine myometrium; compared to the stroma, endometrial glands showed the highest expression in pre- and postmenopausal specimens. Glandular expression of DFF45 was dependent on the menstrual cycle, reaching its highest level in the secretory endometrium. The glandular expression of DFF40 and DFF45 was significantly lower in postmenopausal specimens than that in premenopausal tissue. No cycle-dependent changes were reported for stromal or myometrial DFF40 or DFF45 expression. Compared to the endometrial stroma and myometrium, Bcl-2 showed the highest expression in the glandular proliferative endometrium and the lowest expression in the stromal secretory endometrium and myometrium during the secretory phase of the cycle. DFF45 and Bcl-2 showed menstrual cycle-dependent expression, which was limited to the glandular layer of the endometrium.', u'/manuscript/201705.0156/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Analysis of the Pathogenic Factors and Management of Dry Eye in Ocular Surface Disorders', ['Marcella Nebbioso', 'Paola Del Regno', 'Magda Gharbiya', 'Marta Sacchetti', 'Rocco Plateroti', 'Alessandro Lambiase'], u'May 22 2017', u'The alteration of the delicate balance that regulates the secretion and distribution of the tear film determines the dry eye (DE) syndrome, because the tear film represents the interface between the eye and the environment. Despite having a multifactorial origin, the main risk factors for the emergence of the ocular disease are female gender and advanced age. Likewise, morphological changes in several glands and in chemical composition of their secretions such as proteins, mucins, lipidics, aqueous tears, and salinity, are highly relevant factors to maintain a condition of good health of the ocular anterior segment. Another key factor of recurrence and onset of the disease is the presence of local and/or systemic infiammation that reflex on the ocular surface. However, it is one of the most commonly encountered disease in clinical practice and many other causes related to daily life and to lengthen the average life will contribute to the beginning. This review will consider how and what disorders of the ocular surface are responsible for a widespread pathology so. In the end, the most appropriate and new therapies will be briefly exposed according to the specific pathology.', u'/manuscript/201705.0161/v1', [u'Ophthalmology'], []]
[u'Dental Wear: Attrition, Erosion and Abrasion\u2014A Palaeo-Odontological Approach', ['Geoffrey H. Sperber'], u'May 22 2017', u'A review of the surface ablation of hominin teeth by attrition, abrasion and erosive wear. The occurrence of these lesions is explored in a sample of South African fossil australopithecine dentitions revealing excessive wear. Interpretation of the nature of the dietary components causing such wear in the absence of carious erosion provides insight into the ecology of the Plio-pleistocene epoch (1-2 million years ago). Fossil teeth inform much of the living past by their retained evidence after death. Tooth wear is the ultimate forensic evidence of lives lived.', u'/manuscript/201705.0159/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Bile acid detoxifying enzymes limit susceptibility to liver fibrosis in female SHRSP5/Dmcr rats fed with a high-fat-cholesterol diet', ['Husna Yetti', 'Hisao Naito', 'Yuan Yuan', 'Xiaofang Jia', 'Yumi Hayashi', 'Hazuki Tamada', 'Kazuya Kitamori', 'Katsumi Ikeda', 'Yukio Yamori', 'Tamie Nakajima'], u'May 23 2017', u'During middle age, women are less susceptible to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) than men. Thus, we investigated the underlying molecular mechanisms behind these sexual differences using an established rat model of NASH. Mature female and male stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive 5/Dmcr rats were fed control or high-fat-cholesterol (HFC) diets for 2, 8, and 14 weeks. Although HFC-induced hepatic fibrosis was markedly less severe in females than in males, only minor gender differences were observed in expression levels of cytochrome P450 enzymes (CYP)7A1, CYP8B1 CYP27A1, and CYP7B1, and multidrug resistance-associated protein 3, and bile salt export pump, which are involved in fibrosis-related bile acid (BA) kinetics. However, the BA detoxification-related enzymes UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) and sulfotransferase (SULT) 2A1, and the nuclear receptors constitutive androstene receptor (CAR) and pregnane X receptor (PXR), were strongly suppressed in HFC fed males, and were only slightly changed in HFC-diet fed females. Expression levels of the farnesoid X receptor and its small heterodimer partner were similarly regulated in a gender-dependent fashion following HFC feeding. Hence, the pronounced female resistance to HFC-induced liver damage likely reflects sustained expression of the nuclear receptors CAR and PXR and the BA detoxification enzymes UGT and SULT.', u'/manuscript/201705.0166/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'Effects of \u03b2-Hydroxy-\u03b2-Methylbutyrate Supplementation on IL-4, IL-10 and TGF-\u03b21 during Resistance Exercise in Athletes', ['Rahman Rahimi', 'Hamid Shoker Nejad'], u'May 23 2017', u'The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of \u03b2-Hydroxy-\u03b2-methylbutyrate (HMB) supplementation on anti-inflammatory cytokines including IL-4, IL-10 and TGF-\u03b2 during an acute bout of resistance exercise (RE) in young resistance trained men. Ten resistance-trained men in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled and crossover study, were administered a 7-day HMB supplementation (3\xd71 g.d-1 of HMB) and placebo (3\xd71 g.d-1 of Maltodextrin) with a 7 days washout period. After supplementation periods, subjects performed three sets of bench press, lat pull down, leg extension, leg curl, biceps curl, triceps curl and shoulder press to failure with 85% of one repetition to maximum (1RM). Blood samples were obtained before- (Pre), immediately post- (IP) and 1 hour-post RE (1h P) to assess serum concentrations of IL-4, IL-10 and TGF-\u03b21. The data were analyzed using 2 (treatment: HMB and PL) \xd7 3 (time points: Pre, IP and 1hP) repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) followed by the Bonferroni post hoc test with a significant level of p<0.05. Serum IL-4 was significantly higher at IP resistance exercise in HMB compared to placebo. Circulating IL-4 and TGF-\u03b21 were significantly raised at IP compared to Pre in both HMB and placebo treatments. No significant differences between treatments were observed for IL-10 and TGF-\u03b21at any time points. In conclusion, HMB supplementation increased the circulating level of IL-4 during RE in resistance-trained men, which may attenuate inflammation and facilitate adaptation to RE.', u'/manuscript/201705.0165/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'Determination of Some American Grapevine Rootstocks\u2019 Suitability for Vertical Gardens as a New Edible Landscape Component', ['Atilla Cakir', 'Emrah Yalcnalp', 'Alperen Meral', 'Ezgi Dogan'], u'May 24 2017', u'In this study, grapevine, which epitomizes the opinion that vertical gardens can have a positive influence on human psychology with their beautiful view as in the example of hanging gardens of Babylon about 2500 years ago, was used as the research material. The study in question was conducted in Bingol University, Faculty of Agriculture, the Department of Garden Plants research and application area in 2016. The offshoot growth was measured in fertilizer experiment formed as control, 1st application (200 gr/100 lt water, leaf) and 2nd application (100 gr/100 lt water+40% leaf+root) and its footprint in the vertical area was determined. While the average offshoot growth of 1103 P American grapevine rootstock in the 1st and 2nd applications was measured as 61,5 cm and 39,5 cm respectively, it was 43,0 cm and 51,0 for C American grapevine rootstock. The average growth of 1103 P and 1616 C American grapevine in the control group was determined as 30,6 cm and 32,1 cm. The average growth of both American grapevine rootstocks used in the experiment was determined to be higher for the 1st and 2nd applications than the controls.', u'/manuscript/201705.0180/v1', [u'Agricultural Sciences & Agronomy'], []]
[u'Allometric Equations for Estimation of Biomass and Carbon Stocks in Temperate Forests of North-Western Mexico', ['Benedicto Vargas-Larreta', 'Carlos Antonio Lopez-Sanchez', 'Jose Javier Corral-Rivas', 'Jorge Omar Lopez-Martinez', 'Cristobal Gerardo Aguirre-Calderon', 'Juan Gabriel Alvarez-Gonzalez'], u'May 24 2017', u'This paper presents new above-ground biomass (AGB) and biomass components equations for seventeen forest species in the temperate forests of northwestern Mexico. A data set corresponding to 1336 destructively sampled oak and pine trees was used to fit the models. Generalized method of moments was used to simultaneously fit systems of equations for biomass components and AGB, to ensure additivity. Additionally, the carbon content of each tree component was calculated by the dry combustion method, in a TOC analyser. The fitted equations accounted for on average 91, 83, 84 and 78% of the observed variance in stem wood and stem bark, branch and foliage biomass, respectively, whereas the total AGB equations explained on average 93% of the total observed variance in AGB. The inclusion of h or d2h as additional predictor in the d-only based equations systems slightly improved estimates of stem wood, stem bark and total above-ground biomass, and greatly improved the estimates produced by the branch and foliage biomass equations. The fitted equations were used to estimate AGB stocks at stand level from a database on growing stock from 429 permanent sampling plots. Three machine-learning techniques were used to model the estimated stand level AGB and carbon contents; the selected models were applied to map the AGB and carbon distributions in the study area, which yielded mean values of 129.84 Mg ha-1 and 63.80 Mg ha-1, respectively.', u'/manuscript/201705.0178/v1', [u'Forestry'], []]
[u'Molecular and Biochemical Characterization of Calmodulin from Echinococcus granulosus', ['Ning Wang', 'Xiu-Qin Zhong', 'Xing-Ju Song', 'Xiao-Bin Gu', 'Wei-Ming Lai', 'Yue Xie', 'Xue-Rong Peng', 'Guang-You Yang'], u'May 24 2017', u'Echinococcus granulosus is a harmful cestode parasite which could cause Cystic Echinococcosis in humans, various livestock species and wild animals. Calmodulin (CaM), a Ca2+ sensor protein, is widely expressed in eukaryotes and mediates a variety of cellular signaling activities. In our study, the CaM in Echinococcus granulosus (rEgCaM) was successfully cloned and the molecular and biochemical characterizations of rEgCaM were identified. The results showed that rEgCaM was a highly conserved calcium-binding protein, consisting of 149 amino acids. Immunoblot analysis revealed that rEgCaM could be identified using E. granulosus infected sheep serum. The usage of rEgCaM as antigen was evaluated by indirect ELISA which exhibited a high sensitivity of 90.3% but low specificity (47.1%). rEgCaM was mainly located in the tegument tissues and parenchymal region of protoscoleces, the tegument and inner body of adult worm and predominantly expressed in the germinal layer. The mRNA expression of rEgCaM in PSCs were gradually decreased with the increase death of PSCs. In electrophoretic mobility tests and ANS assays, rEgCaM showed a typical calcium-binding protein characteristics. This is the first report on CaM from E. granulosus and rEgCaM is considered to be involved in some important biological function of E. granulosus as a calcium-binding protein.', u'/manuscript/201705.0173/v1', [u'Animal Sciences & Zoology'], []]
[u'Zinc in Infection and Inflammation', ['Nour Zahi Gammoh', 'Lothar Rink'], u'May 24 2017', u'Micronutrient homeostasis is a key factor in maintaining a healthy immune system. Zinc is an essential micronutrient that is involved in the regulation of the innate and adaptive immune responses. The main cause of zinc deficiency is malnutrition. Zinc deficiency leads to cell-mediated immune dysfunctions among other manifestations. Consequently, such dysfunctions lead to a worse outcome in the response towards bacterial infection and sepsis. For instance, zinc is an essential component of the pathogen-eliminating signal transduction pathways leading to neutrophil extracellular traps formation, as well as inducing cell-mediated immunity over humoral immunity by regulating specific factors or differentiation. Additionally, zinc deficiency plays a role in inflammation, mainly elevating inflammatory response as well as damage to host tissue. Zinc is involved in the modulation of the proinflammatory response by targeting Nuclear Factor Kappa B, a transcription factor that is the master regulator of proinflammatory responses. It is also involved in controlling oxidative stress and regulating inflammatory cytokines. Zinc plays an intricate function during an immune response and its homeostasis is critical for sustaining proper immune function. This review will summarize the latest findings concerning the role of this micronutrient during the course of infections and inflammatory response and how the immune system modulates zinc depending on different stimuli.', u'/manuscript/201705.0176/v1', [u'Immunology'], []]
[u'Inhibitory Effects of Diclofenac on Steroid Glucuronidation in Vivo Do not Affect Hair-Based Doping Tests for Stanozolol', ['Gergely Zachar', 'Nawed I. K. Deshmukh', 'Andrea Petroczi', 'Andrea D. Szekely', 'Iltaf Shah', 'James Barker', 'Declan P. Naughton'], u'May 24 2017', u"In vitro studies show that diclofenac inhibits enzymatic steroid glucuronidation. This study was designed to investigate the influence of diclofenac on the excretion of stanozolol and 3'-hydroxystanozolol via analyses in hair, blood and urine in vivo in a rat study. Brown Norway rats were administered with stanozolol (weeks 1-3) and diclofenac (weeks 1-6). Weekly assessment of steroid levels in hair was complemented with spot urine and serum tests. Levels of both stanozolol and 3'-hydroxystanozolol steadily increased in hair during stanozolol treatment and decreased post-treatment, but remained readily detectable for 6 weeks. In contrast, compared to control rats, diclofenac significantly reduced urinary excretion of 3\u2019-hydroxystanozolol which was undetectable in most samples. This is the first report of diclofenac altering steroid metabolism in vivo, detrimentally affecting detection in urine, but not in hair which holds considerable advantages over urinalysis for anti-doping tests.", u'/manuscript/201705.0174/v1', [u'Endocrinology & Metabolomics'], []]
[u'Residence in Proximity of a Coal-Oil-Fired Thermal Power Plant and Risk of Lung and Bladder Cancer in North-Eastern Italy. A Population-Based Study, 1995\u20132009', ['Paolo Collarile', 'Ettore Bidoli', 'Fabio Barbone', 'Loris Zanier', 'Stefania Del Zotto', 'Simonetta Fuser', 'Fulvio Stel', 'Chiara Panato', 'Ilaria Gallai', 'Diego Serraino'], u'May 25 2017', u'We assessed lung and bladder cancer risk in people living near a coal-oil-fired thermal power plant in an area of north-eastern Italy covered by a population-based cancer registry. Incidence rate ratios (IRR) by sex, age, and histology were computed according to tertiles of residential exposure to benzene, nitrogen dioxide (NO2), particular matter (PM10), and sulfur dioxide (SO2) among 1076 incident cases of lung and 650 cases of bladder cancers. In men of all ages and in women under 75 years of age, no significant associations were observed. Conversely, in women aged \u2265 75 years significantly increased risks of lung and bladder cancer were related to high exposure to benzene (IRR for highest vs. lowest tertile: 2.00 for lung cancer and 1.94 for bladder cancer) and NO2 (IRR: 1.72 for lung cancer; and 1.94 for bladder cancer). In these women, a 1.71-fold higher risk of lung cancer was also related to high exposure to SO2. The findings of this descriptive study indicate that air pollution may have a role with regard to the risk of lung and bladder cancers, limited to women aged \u2265 75 years. Such increased risk warrants further analytical investigations.', u'/manuscript/201705.0186/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], []]
[u'Insulin Secretion with the Effect of Loureirin B through KATP Channel\u2013Dependent Pathway', ['Yijie Sha', 'Yuelin Zhang', 'Jing Cao', 'Kai Qian', 'Bing Niu', 'Qin Chen'], u'May 26 2017', u'The development of new diabetes drugs continues to be explored. Loureirin B, a flavonoid, extracted from Dracaena cochinchinensis, has been confirmed to increase insulin secretion and decrease blood glucose levels. For understanding the mechanism, a series of experiments had been employed based on computational methods and cell experiments. The insulin secretion significantly increased with the incubation of 0.01\u03bcM loureirin B for 4 hours. The viability of Ins-1 cells showed no significant difference with the treatment of loureirin B. Through computational methods, we hypothesized that loureirin B could interacts with KATP channels to promote insulin secretion. In cell experiments, it could be found that the current of KATP channel of Ins-1 cells was inhibited by the effect of loureirin B. After then, the voltage-dependent calcium channels were activated, the increase of Cx43 protein expression might mediate the Ca2+ to the intracellular. In summary, it could be concluded that loureirin B promoted insulin secretion mainly through inhibiting KATP current, the influx of Ca2+ to the Intracellular and the expression of Cx43.', u'/manuscript/201705.0189/v1', [u'Biochemistry'], []]
[u'Trunk Surface Agarwood-Inducing Technique: An Efficient Novel Method for Agarwood Production with Fungi', [], u'May 29 2017', u'Agarwood formation is available only when agarwood-producing trees are wounded. As already evidenced, this process may be sped up when some fungi or their cultural metabolites are injected into these trees. In the present study, we developed a novel method called Trunk Surface Agarwood-Inducing Technique (Agar-Tst) to produce agarwood with fungi in two steps: uncover the bark, then spray or smear fungi suspension over the trunk surface. We used Agar-Tst to treat Aquilaria sinensis trees with two kinds of fungi, and evaluated agarwood formation after 6 months. Compared with the high-grade naturally formed agarwood as well as the 6,7-Dimethoxy-2-(2-phenylethyl) chromone standard, the agarwood produced by this technique showed similar spots in the thin layer chromatography assay. The agarwood yield was about 1100-1172 g per tree (eight-year old), with alcohol soluble extract content up to 37.3% and 38.9%, respectively, both above the requirement listed in Chinese Pharmacopoeia (10%). The six characteristic compounds of agarwood specified in Chinese Pharmacopoeia were also detected, and sesquiterpenes were determined by GC-MS to be the main compound in the essential oil of the produced agarwood. With the advantages of high yield, good quality and easy collection, especially no need to thoroughly destroy trees, the Agar-Tst method has been widely used for agarwood production in Hainan Province, China.', u'/manuscript/201705.0201/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Oligonol Attenuates Diabetes-Induced Pancreatic Damage by Inhibiting Inflammatory Responses via Oxidative Stress-Dependent MAPK/NF-kB Signaling', ['Chan Hum Park', 'Joo Young Lee', 'Sung Ho Shin', 'Min Yeong Kim', 'Eun Suk Lee', 'Yu Su Shin', 'Young Ock Kim', 'Sang Won Lee', 'Jae Sue Choi', 'Takako Yokozawa'], u'May 30 2017', u'Oligonol is a low-molecular-weight polyphenol derived from lychee fruit. This study was conducted to examine whether oligonol has an ameliorative effect on diabetes-induced pancreatic damage via oxidative stress-induced inflammation. Oligonol was orally administered at 10 or 20 mg/kg body weight/day for 10 days to streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats, and changes in serum glucose, C-peptide, insulin, reactive oxygen species (ROS), and thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance (TBARS) levels as well as body weight and food and water consumption were assessed. Furthermore, rat pancreases were analyzed for weight, ROS generation, TBARS level, insulin content, and protein expressions of phosphor (p)-p38, p-extracellular-signal regulated kinase 1/2, p-inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B\u03b1, nuclear factor-kappa Bp65, cyclooxygenase-2, inducible nitric oxide synthase, tumor necrosis factor-\u03b1, and interleukin-6. Markers of diabetes were shown to be decreased by oligonol administration and histological damage in the pancreas was also ameliorated. These results indicate that oligonol exerts antidiabetic activities, which may be mediated via antioxidative, stress-related, anti-inflammatory signaling.', u'/manuscript/201705.0208/v1', [u'Physiology'], []]
[u'Influenza virus infection, interferon response, viral counter-response and apoptosis', ['Jung Min Shim', 'Jinhee Kim', 'Ji-Young Min', 'Denis E. Kainov'], u'May 30 2017', u'Human influenza A viruses (IAVs) cause global pandemics and epidemics, which remain serious threats to public health because of the shortage of effective means of control. To combat the surge of viral outbreaks, new treatments are urgently needed. Developing new virus control modalities requires better understanding of virus-host interactions. Here we describe how IAV infection triggers cellular apoptosis, and how this process can be exploited towards development of new therapeutics, which might be more effective than the currently available anti-influenza drugs.', u'/manuscript/201705.0209/v1', [u'Immunology'], []]
[u'Genome Characterization of a Novel Binary Toxin-Positive Strain of Clostridium difficile and Comparison with the Epidemic 027 and 078 Strains', ['Zhong Peng', 'Sidi Liu', 'Xiujuan Meng', 'Wan Liang', 'Biao Tang', 'Yuanguo Wang', 'Juping Duan', 'Chenchao Fu', 'Bin Wu', 'Anhua Wu', 'Chunhui Li'], u'May 30 2017', u'A novel binary toxin-positive non-027, non-078 Clostridium difficile strain designated LC693 whose sequence type was ST201 was isolated from the fecal sample of a patient with severe diarrhea in China. To understand the pathogenesis basis of C. difficile ST201, this recently recovered isolate LC693 was then chosen for whole genome sequencing. The project finally generated an estimated genome size of approximately 4.07 Mbp. The genome sequence was then analyzed together with the other two ST201 strains VL-0104 and VL-0391 and compared to the epidemic 027/ST1 and 078/ST11 strains. Phylogenetic analysis demonstrated that the ST201 strains belonged to clade 3. Genome size of the three ST201 strains ranged from 4.07 Mb~4.16 Mb, with an average GC content between 28.5%~28.9%. The ST201 genomes contained more than 40 antibiotic resistance genes and 15 of them were predicted to be associated with vancomycin-resistance, suggesting that they may have a strong antibiotic resistance. The ST201 strains contained a typical clade 3 specific PaLoc with a Tn6218 element inserted, and those genes harbored on their PaLoc that participated in the toxin expression and regulation were highly homologues to the epidemic 027 and 078 strains, with the exception of tcdC. A truncated TcdC was found in the ST201 strains, which is suggestive to have a contribution to the toxin production of the ST201 strains. In addition, the ST201 strains contained intact binary toxin coding and regulation genes, which is also proposed to contribute to the virulence. Genome comparison of the ST201 strains with the epidemic 027 and 078 strain identified 641 genes specific for the C. difficile ST201, and a number of them were predicted as fitness and virulence associated genes. The identification of those genes also contributes to the pathogenesis of the ST201 strain. To our knowledge, this is the first study that the genome sequence of C. difficile ST201 was discussed in detail, and the present study would have a contribution to understanding the pathogenesis basis of C. difficile ST201.', u'/manuscript/201705.0206/v1', [u'Microbiology'], []]
[u'Deadwood Density and Moisture Variation in a Natural Temperate Spruce-Fir-Beech Forest', ['Tomas Privetivy', 'Petr Baldrian', 'Pavel Samonil', 'Tomas Vrska'], u'May 30 2017', u'Deadwood represents a source of nutrients, carbon and water for metabolism within forest ecosystem. Nutrients are mobilized due to the decomposition of wood, which is a long-term process that can be best studied by analysing environmental data on a temporary scale. Our study provides physico-temporal data on the downed logs of three major tree species in European temperate forests: Abies alba Mill., Fagus sylvatica L. and Picea abies (L.) Karst. Time since death was obtained using tree censuses (repeated for 40 years) and dendrochronology for each single downed log, the oldest being 75 years old. Standard laboratory methods were used for the determination of wood density and moisture changes. F. sylvatica was decomposed rapidly in the initial phase \u2013 mass loss was 50% during the 5 years after death, while A. alba and P. abies lost 13% and 16%, respectively. Downed logs of F. sylvatica contained 391 kg of water per m3, while these of P. abies 279 kg. A log-transformed linear model was created that shows the dependence of time since death on mass loss. According to the model, F. sylvatica had the shortest total decomposition time (39 years), followed by A. alba (58 years) and P. abies (86 years).', u'/manuscript/201705.0215/v1', [u'Ecology'], []]
[u'Activation of the EGF Receptor by Ligand Binding and Oncogenic Mutations: The \u201cRotation Model\u201d', ['Endang R. Purba', 'Ei-ichiro Saita', 'Ichiro N. Maruyama'], u'May 30 2017', u'The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) plays vital roles in cellular processes including cell proliferation, survival, motility and differentiation. Dysregulated activation of the receptor is often implicated in human cancers. EGFR is synthesized as a single-pass transmembrane protein, which consists of an extracellular ligand-binding domain and an intracellular kinase domain separated by a single transmembrane domain. The receptor is activated by a variety of polypeptide ligands such as epidermal growth factor and transforming growth factor \u03b1. It has long been thought that EGFR is activated by ligand-induced dimerization of the receptor monomer, which brings intracellular kinase domains into close proximity for trans-autophosphorylation. An increasing number of diverse studies, however, demonstrate that EGFR is present as a pre-formed, yet inactive, dimer prior to ligand binding. Furthermore, recent progress in structural studies has provided insight into conformational changes during the activation of a pre-formed EGFR dimer. Upon ligand binding to the extracellular domain of EGFR, its transmembrane domains rotate or twist parallel to the plane of the cell membrane, resulting in reorientation of the intracellular kinase domain dimer from a symmetric inactive configuration to an asymmetric active form (the \u201crotation model\u201d). This model is also able to explain how oncogenic mutations activate the receptor in the absence of ligand without assuming that the mutations induce receptor dimerization. In this review, we discuss mechanisms underlying ligand-induced activation of the preformed EGFR dimer, as well as how oncogenic mutations constitutively activate the receptor dimer, based on the rotation model.', u'/manuscript/201705.0212/v1', [u'Physiology'], []]
[u'Pharmacokinetics and Tissue Distribution Kinetics of Puerarin in Rats Using Indirect Competitive ELISA', ['Hui Kong', 'Xueqian Wang', 'Rongfeng Shi', 'Yan Zhao', 'Jinjun Cheng', 'Xin Yan', 'Xiaoman Liu', 'Yongzhi Wang', 'Meiling Zhang', 'Qingguo Wang', 'Huihua Qu'], u'May 30 2017', u'Puerarin (PUE) is a compound isolated from the roots of Pueraria lobata. We studied the pharmacokinetics and tissue distribution kinetics of PUE in Sprague-Dawley rats following intraperitoneal administration of three concentrations. Indirect competitive ELISA based on an anti-PUE monoclonal antibody was used to determine the concentration of PUE in the blood, heart, liver, spleen, lung, kidney, hippocampus, cerebral cortex, and striatum. The plasma and tissue distribution kinetic characteristics following a single injection of PUE (20, 40, and 80 mg/kg) were calculated using a non-compartment model. In the high-dose (80 mg/kg) and medium-dose (40 mg/kg) groups, the kinetic profile of PUE in blood and kidney samples showed two absorption peaks, while that of the other tissues showed only one peak. In the low-dose (20 mg/kg) group, there was only one peak, irrespective of the sample type.\xa0Pharmacokinetic parameters such as the area under the curve, Cmax, and Tmax varied according to the administered dose. AUC and Cmax values increased dose-dependently. PUE was widely distributed in areas of the brain such as the hippocampus, cerebral cortex, and striatum, providing a foundation for guiding the use of PUE in the treatment of cerebral ischaemic stroke and neurodegenerative diseases.', u'/manuscript/201705.0210/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Antioxidants in Obesity', [], u'June 2 2017', u'Obesity is the most prevalent nutritional disorder in the world and is considered a major health issue due to its association with the development of cardiovascular and chronic-degenerative diseases. Oxidative stress is a distinctive feature of obesity promoted by an imbalance between oxidant and antioxidant systems in the body leading to excessive reactive oxygen species (ROS) production. Chronic oxidative stress adversely alters the structure and physiological function of lipids, proteins and DNA, which ultimately favors the development of obesity-related diseases. The main strategy to reverse the oxidative stress associated with obesity is the loss of body fat through the implementation of various dietary strategies that include antioxidant-rich foods. Lifestyle changes, such as increasing physical activity, has also shown to reduce ROS generation and improve systemic antioxidant capacity in overweight and obese subjects. This review provides an overview of how antioxidants, both endogenous and exogenous, may participate during obesity in the decrease of body fat and associated metabolic disturbances, proposing them as an important therapeutic strategy in addition to physical activity and dietary interventions for the management of obesity.', u'/manuscript/201706.0008/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Evaluation of the Cardiotoxicity of Evodiamine In Vitro and In Vivo', ['WeiFeng Yang', 'Lina Ma', 'Sidi Li', 'KaiYu Cui', 'Lei Lei', 'ZuGuang Ye'], u'June 2 2017', u'Evodiamine is a bioactive alkaloid that is specified as a biomarker for the quality assessment of Evodia rutaecarpa and for traditional Chinese medicines containing this plant. We previously reported that quantitative structure-activity modeling indicated that evodiamine may cause cardiotoxicity. However, previous investigations have indicated that evodiamine has beneficial effects in patients with cardiovascular diseases and there are no previous in vitro or in vivo reports of evodiamine-induced cardiotoxicity. The present study investigated the effects of evodiamine on primary cultured neonatal rat cardiomyocytes in vitro, and on zebrafish in vivo. Cell viability was reduced in vitro, where evodiamine had a 24-h 50% inhibitory concentration of 28.44 \xb5g/mL. Cells exposed to evodiamine also showed increased lactate dehydrogenase release and maleic dialdehyde levels, and reduced superoxide dismutase activity. In vivo, evodiamine had a 10% lethal concentration of 354 ng/mL and induced cardiac malfunction, as evidenced by changes in heart rate and circulation, and pericardial malformations. This study indicated that evodiamine could cause cardiovascular side effects involving oxidative stress. These findings suggest that cardiac function should be monitored in patients receiving preparations containing evodiamine.', u'/manuscript/201706.0017/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], []]
[u'Gibberellic Acid Signaling Is Required to Induce Flowering of Chrysanthemum Grown under Both Short and Long Days', ['Bin Dong', 'Ye Deng', 'Haibin Wang', 'Ri Gao', 'Githengu K. Stephen', 'Sumei Chen', 'Fadi Chen', 'Jiafu Jiang'], u'June 2 2017', u'Flower bud formation and flowering in chrysanthemum occur under short day conditions (SD), but the molecular basis for the switch to reproductive growth is less well understood than in model plants. Here, a spontaneous mutant able to flower under long days is described. In an attempt to reveal the pathway(s) involved in the formation of flower buds under contrasting daylengths, transcriptome sequencing was carried out in plants grown both under SD and under long day conditions (LD). A number of differentially transcribed genes involved in the various known flowering pathways were identified. Both circadian clock genes and CmFTL3 were up-regulated under SD, thereby inducing floral bud formation and flowering. The gibberellin (GA) signalling pathway-related genes GA20ox and GID1 were up-regulated in the mutant under LD, while the catabolic gene GA2ox and GAI was down-regulated, thereby inducing the transcription of CmFTL1, SOC1 and LFY. The GA content of the leaf was higher in the mutant than in the wild type under LD. When treated with GA, the mutant flowered earlier under both SD and LD, but there was no other detectable phenotype difference between the two lines. The indication was that the photoperiod pathway majorly regulates flower bud formation and flowering time in chrysanthemum under SD. GA signalling pathway only plays a subsidiary role for flowering. However, the GA signalling pathway predominated for flowering under LD.', u'/manuscript/201706.0015/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], []]
[u'Correcting Names of Bacteria: An Analyzed Sequence Data Necessary for Taxonomic Recategorization of Misclassified Lysinibacillus Species Deposited in Microbial Repositories', [], u'June 5 2017', u'Genomics analysis and digitalized data of the twenty-four Lysinibacillus species deposited in renowned Microbial Culture Collections of India. This paper presents data of Lysinibacillus species 16S rRNA gene sequences. Sequences were digitalized to provide quick response (QR) codes, Chaose Game Representation (CGR) and Frequency of Chaose Game Representation (FCGR). GC percentage, phylogenetic analysis, and principal component analysis (PCA) are tools for the differentiation and reclassification of the studied strains. Leaves of identity with type strains of related species range from 90% to 93% suggesting a reclassification is needed to correctly assign species names to the analyzed Lysinibacillus strains available in Microbial Culture Collections in India.', u'/manuscript/201706.0025/v1', [u'Microbiology'], []]
[u'Role of Saponins in Plant Defense against the Diamondback Moth, Plutella xylostella (L.)', ['Mubasher Hussain', 'Muhammad Qasim', 'Bamisope Steve Bamisile', 'Liande Wang'], u'June 6 2017', u'The diamondback moth (DBM), Plutella xylostella L. (Lepidoptera: Plutellidae) is very destructive crucifers specialized pest that has resulted in significant crop losses worldwide. The pest is well attracted to glucosinolate-containing crucifers such as; Barbarea vulgaris (Brassicaceae), and generally to other plants in the genus Barbarea. B. vulgaris on their part, build up resistance against DBM and other herbivorous insects using glucosinolates; that are plant secondary metabolites used in plant defense\u2013contained only in plants of the order Brassicales. Aside glucosinolates, plants in this genus Barbarea (Brassicaceae) also contain saponins; which is toxic to insects and act as feeding deterrents for plant herbivores, most importantly, DBM, as it was found to prevent the survival of DBM larvae on the plant. Saponins are plant secondary metabolites have been established in higher concentrations in younger in contrast to older leaves within the same plant. Previous studies have found a relationship between ontogenetical changes in the host plant\u2019s saponin content and attraction/resistance to P. xylostella. The younger leaves recorded higher concentrations of glucosinolates and saponins, which naturally attracts the plant herbivores. DBM was reported to have evolved mechanisms to avoid the toxicity of the former. The plant-herbivore had adapted glucosinolates for host plant recognition, feeding and oviposition stimulants. Despite the adaptation for oviposition by P. xylostella adults, larvae of the insect cannot survive on the same plant. An example is in some varieties of B. vulgaris. The triterpenoid saponins which act as feeding deterrents in larvae are responsible for this direct defense mechanism against P. xylostella. In the future, trials by plant breeders could aim at transferring this insect resistance to other crops. The previous trials had limited because of lack of knowledge on the biosynthetic pathways and regulatory networks of saponins. Herein, we discussed exclusively; saponins mediated plant defense mechanisms against the DBM.', u'/manuscript/201706.0035/v1', [u'Agricultural Sciences & Agronomy'], []]
[u'The Role of SNCA Rep1 Microsatellite in Parkinson\u2019s Disease Progression', ['Lucia Corrado', 'Fabiola De Marchi', 'Sara Tunesi', 'Gaia Oggioni', 'Miryam Carecchio', 'Luca Magistrelli', 'Silvana Tesei', 'Giulio Riboldazzi', 'Alessio Di Fonzo', 'Clarissa Locci', 'Ilaria Trezzi', 'Roberta Zangaglia', 'Cristina Cereda', "Sandra D'Alfonso", 'Corrado Magnani', 'Comi Giacomo Pietro', 'Giorgio Bono', 'Claudio Pacchetti', 'Roberto Cantello', 'Stefano Goldwurm', 'Cristoforo Comi'], u'June 6 2017', u'\u03b1-synuclein is a constituent of Lewy bodies and mutations of its gene cause familial PD. A previous study showed that a variant of \u03b1-synuclein gene (SNCA), namely the 263bp allele of Rep1 was associated to faster motor progression in PD. On the contrary, a recent report failed to detect a detrimental effect of Rep1 263 on both motor and cognitive outcomes in PD. Aim of this study was to evaluate the influence of the Rep1 variants on disease progression in Parkinson\u2019s Disease (PD) patients. We recruited and genotyped for SNCA-Rep1 426 PD patients with age at onset \u226540 years and disease duration \u22654 years. We then analyzed frequency and time of occurrence of wearing-off, dyskinesia, freezing of gait, visual hallucinations and dementia. SNCA Rep1 263 carriers showed increased risk of both dementia (HR=3.03) and visual hallucinations (HR=2.69) compared to 263 non-carriers. In conclusion, SNCA Rep 1 263 allele is associated to a worst cognitive outcome in PD.', u'/manuscript/201706.0034/v1', [u'Clinical Neurology'], []]
[u'Evidence for Recent Polygenic Selection on Educational Attainment and Intelligence Inferred from GWAS Hits: A Replication of Previous Findings Using Recent Data', ['Davide Piffer'], u'June 8 2017', u'Background: The genetic variants identified by three large genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of educational attainment and the largest intelligence GWAS were used to test a polygenic selection model. Methods: Average frequencies of alleles with positive effect (polygenic scores or PS) were compared across populations (N=26) using data from 1000 Genomes. Factor analysis was used to extract a signal of polygenic selection. Results: A polygenic selection factor of educational attainment GWAS hits is high among a handful of SNPs within genomic regions replicated across GWAS publications and it is highly correlated to the genetic intelligence factor (r= 0.96). These factors are both highly predictive of average population IQ (r=0.9), and are robust to tests of spatial autocorrelation. Several Monte Carlo simulations yielded highly significant p values. Furthermore, the polygenic selection model shows high replicability, with the EA and intelligence factor scores being virtually identical to those from an older study (r=0.96-0.99). A larger sample of populations (N=53) produced similar results. Conclusion: This study shows robust results after accounting for spatial autocorrelation and Monte Carlo simulation using random SNPs and shows robust reproducibility of results from a previous study.', u'/manuscript/201706.0039/v1', [u'Genetics'], []]
[u'Access to HIV Care and Resilience in a Long Term Conflict Setting. A Pilot Qualitative Assessment of the Experiences of Living with Diagnosed HIV in Mogadishu, Somali', ['Asli Kulane', 'John O. A. Owuor', 'Douglas Sematimba', 'Sacdia Abdisamad Abdulahi', 'Hamdi Moalim Yusuf', 'Lul M. Mohamed'], u'June 12 2017', u'Background: Human Immnodeficiency virus (HIV) continues to take a heavy toll on the lives of many people with worst impact on health and wellbeing for the affected individuals in fragile states. The HIV situation in Somalia is not clearly known and experiences of the people living with HIV in this war-torn region unexpressed. This pilot qualitative study sought to explore the experiences of people living with diagnosed HIV in Mogadishu and their resilience in access to care and social support. Method: Face-to-face in-depth interviews were conducted in Somali in May 2013 among patients who were receiving Antiretroviral therapy (ART) from the HIV clinic in Mogadishu. Participants were recruited through drug dispensers at the HIV clinic in Benader Hospital. These were tape recorded, transcribed and translated for content analysis. Results: Three women and four men who were living with HIV shared the following narratives. Their perception was that they had either got HIV from their spouces or through health care contamination. They were very knowledgable about the realities of HIV, how the medication works, nutritional requirements and drug adherence. They were always willing to go an extra mile to secure a good life for themselves. However the external HIV stigma impacted their access to care. They faced challenges in their homes and at work which compelled them to seek support from non-governmental organisations (NGOs) or close family members. This stigma often affected their disclosure to the wider community due to the uncertainity of the repercussions, leading to a life of extreme loneliness and financial difficulties. The participants\u2019 coping mechansms included living together and starting their own NGO for support with very strong optimism about their prognosis. Conclusions: The people living with diagnosed HIV in Mogadishu are highly knowledgeable about HIV transmission, the realities of living with diagnosed HIV infection and efficacy of HIV treatment. Our small sample suggests adequate access to ART through NGOs. However, widespread HIV stigma limits HIV status disclosure to the families and communities which creates a risk of self isolation and ill health. But affected individuals have developed resilient mechanisms of managing the risks. They strive to remain employed for economic security, adhere to HIV treatment, engage in support groups and maintain utmost optimism about their prognosis.', u'/manuscript/201706.0052/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], []]
[u'Pathology of Adult and Paediatric Mitochondrial Myopathies', ['Rahul Phadke'], u'June 13 2017', u'Mitochondria are dynamic organelles ubiquitously present in nucleated eukaryotic cells, subserving multiple metabolic functions, including cellular ATP generation by oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS). The OXPHOS machinery comprises five transmembrane respiratory chain enzyme complexes (RC). Defective OXPHOS gives rise to mitochondrial diseases (mtD). The incredible phenotypic and genetic diversity of mtD can be attributed at least in part to the RC dual genetic control (nuclear DNA [nDNA] and mitochondrial DNA [mtDNA]) and the complex interaction between the two genomes. Despite the increasing use of next-generation-sequencing (NGS) and various -omics platforms in unraveling novel mtD genes and pathomechanisms, current clinical practice for investigating mtD essentially involves a multipronged approach including clinical assessment, metabolic screening, imaging, pathological, biochemical and functional testing to guide molecular genetic analysis. This review addresses the broad muscle pathology landscape including genotype-phenotype correlations in adult and paediatric mtD, the role of immunodiagnostics in understanding some of the pathomechanisms underpinning the canonical features of mtD, and recent diagnostic advances in the field.', u'/manuscript/201706.0059/v1', [u'Pathology & Pathobiology'], []]
[u'Comparative Study on Antistaphylococcal Activity of Lipopeptides in Various Culture Media', ['Maciej Jaskiewicz', 'Damian Neubauer', 'Wojciech Kamysz'], u'June 13 2017', u'Staphylococcus aureus bacteria are one of the leading microorganisms responsible for nosocomial infections as well as being the primary causative pathogen of skin and wound infections. Currently, the therapy of staphylococcal diseases faces many difficulties, due to a variety of mechanisms of resistance and virulence factors. Moreover, a number of infections caused by S. aureus is connected with biofilm formation that impairs effectiveness of the therapy. Short cationic lipopeptides that are designed on the basis of the structure of antimicrobial peptides structure are likely to provide a promising alternative to conventional antibiotics. Despite the fact that many research groups have proved a high antistaphylococcal potential of lipopeptides, the lack of unified protocols in determination of antimicrobial activity may be the reason of inconsistency of the results. The aim of this study was to learn how the use of various bacteriological media as well as solvents may affect activity of lipopeptides and their cyclic analogs.', u'/manuscript/201706.0057/v1', [u'Microbiology'], []]
[u'Transition from Pediatric Care to Adult Care in Headache Patients', ['Allyson  Bazarsky ', 'Shalonda K.  Slater ', 'Hope L.  OBrien '], u'June 14 2017', u'Migraine is a common condition that affects children as they develop into adults. Transition of care from pediatric to adult care has becoming an increasingly popular topic in the medical literature. It has been suggested that discussions between patients, their families and providers should be initiated as early as age 13. Patients who are un or underprepared have poorer outcomes due to increased morbidity and worsening of their medical condition. Many children continue to have migraine into adulthood and if efforts are taken to ensure patients receive appropriate transfer of care, the results can significantly decrease the economic burden of this disease.', u'/manuscript/201706.0067/v1', [u'Clinical Neurology'], []]
[u'Human MAP tau based targeted cytolytic fusion proteins', ['Olusiji Akinrinmade', 'Sandra Jordaan', 'Dmitrij Hristodorov', 'Radoslav Mladenov', 'Neelakshi Mungra', 'Shivan Chetty', 'Stefan Barth'], u'June 15 2017', u'Some of the most promising small molecule toxins used to generate antibody drug conjugates (ADCs) include anti-mitotic agents (e.g auristatin and its derivatives) which are designed to attack cancerous cells at their most vulnerable state during mitosis. We were interested to identify a human cystostatic protein eventually showing comparable activities and allowing the generation of corresponding targeted fully human cytolytic fusion proteins. Recently, we identified the human microtubule associated protein tau (MAP tau) which binds specifically to tubulin and modulates the stability of microtubules thereby blocking mitosis and presumably vesicular transport. By binding and stabilizing polymerized microtubule filaments, MAP tau-based fusion proteins skew microtubule dynamics towards cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. This biological activity makes rapidly proliferating cells (e.g cancer and inflammatory cells) an excellent target for MAP tau-based targeted treatments. Their superior selectivity for proliferating cells confers additional selectivity towards upregulated tumor-associated antigens at their surface, thereby preventing off-target related toxicity against normal cells bearing tumor-associated antigens at physiologically normal to low levels. In this review, we highlight recent findings on MAP tau-based targeted cytolytic fusion proteins reported in preclinical immunotherapeutic studies.', u'/manuscript/201706.0068/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Specnvezhenide Decreases Interleukin-1\u03b2-Induced Inflammation on Rat Chondrocytes via NF-\u03baB and wnt/\u03b2-Catenin Pathways and Reduces Joint Destruction in Osteoarthritic Rats', ['Chiyuan Ma', 'Jisheng Ran', 'Kai Xu', 'Langhai Xu', 'Yute Yang', 'Miao Sun', 'An Liu', 'Shigui Yan', 'Lidong Wu'], u'June 16 2017', u'As a chronic disease, osteoarthritis (OA) leads to degradation of both cartilage and subchondral bone, of which the development is related to proinflammatory cytokines like interleukin-1\u03b2. In the present study, the anti-inflammatory effect of Specnvezhenide in osteoarthritis and mechanism of it was studied in vitro and in vivo. The results showed that Specnvezhenide decreases interleukin-1\u03b2-induced expression of matix-degrading enzymes and reduces the activation of NF-\u03baB and wnt/\u03b2-catenin pathways in vitro. Furthermore, Specnvezhenide treatment prevents the degeneration of both cartilage and subchondral bone in rats OA model. As conclusion, to the best of our knowledge, we report firstly that Specnvezhenide decreases interleukin-1\u03b2-induced inflammation on rat chondrocytes by inhibiting activation of NF-\u03baB and wnt/\u03b2-catenin pathways, and has therapeutic potential in OA treatment.', u'/manuscript/201706.0072/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], []]
[u'In Vitro Effect of 8-Prenylnaringenin and Naringenin on Fibroblasts and Glioblastoma Cells\u2014Cellular Accumulation and Cytotoxicity', ['Monika Stompor', 'ukasz Uram'], u'June 16 2017', u'Gliomas are one of the most aggressive and treatment-resistant types of human cancer. One of the most promising field in gliomas cancer therapy is identification and evaluation of anticancer properties of compounds found in plants i.a. naringenin (N) and 8-prenylnaringenin (8PN). The prenyl group seem to be crucial to the anticancer activity of flavones, which may lead to enhanced cell membrane targeting and thus increased intracellular activity. Unfortunately, 8PN content in hop cones is from 10 to 100 times lower compared to other flavonoids i.e. xanthohumol. In this study we used a simple method for the synthesis of 8PN from isoxanthohumol, via O-demethylation with high, 97% of the isolated yield. Cellular accumulation and cytotoxicity of naringenin and 8-prenylnaringenin in normal (BJ) and cancer cells (U-118 MG) were also examined. Obtained data indicated that 8-prenylnaringenin exhibited higher toxicity against used cell lines than naringenin and both flavones inhibited stronger glioblastoma U-118 MG cells than normal fibroblasts. The anticancer properties of 8PN correlated with its significantly greater (37%), accumulation in glioblastoma cells than in normal fibroblasts. Additionally, naringenin indicated higher selectivity for glioblastoma as it was over 6 times more toxic for cancer than normal cells. Our results provide evidence that examined prenylated and non-prenylated flavanones have different biological activity against normal and cancer cell lines and this phenomenon may be useful in clinical practice to construct new, anticancer drugs for glioblastoma.', u'/manuscript/201706.0071/v1', [u'Biochemistry'], []]
[u'Arsenate-Resistant Genes in Egyptian Rice Cultivars as Soil Pollution Sensors', ['Elsayed E. Hafez', 'Ebtesam A. El. Bestawy', 'Mohamed A. Rashad', 'Sayed M. Hassan'], u'June 19 2017', u'The main objective of the present study was to investigate arsenate [As (V)] resistance genes in rice cultivars grown in arsenic contaminated Egyptian soil in order to genetically induce resistance against arsenic in the local rice varieties as well as defining contaminated rice grains and/or soil. Three local rice cultivars; Sakha 102-104 were cultivated on modified Murashige and Skoog Basal Medium (MS medium) containing elevated concentrations of arsenate (0.1, 1 and 10 mg/l). The three varieties showed different resistant attitudes against arsenate with Sakha 104 being the most resistant. Extracted messenger RNA (mRNA) from treated and untreated Sakha 104 plantlets was scanned using differential display to demonstrate the arsenate resistant genes using three different arbitrary primers. About 100 different RNAs with (1500 bp - 50 bp) were obtained from which seven were up-regulated genes, subjected to DNA cloning using TOPO TA system and the selected clones were sequenced. The sequence analysis described four genes out of the seven namely disease resistance protein RPM1, Epstein-Barr virus EBNA-1-like, CwfJ family protein and outer membrane lipoprotein OmlA while the other three genes were hypothetical proteins. It is concluded the four induced genes in the resistant rice cultivar considered as a direct response to arsenic soil pollution. Genes detected in the present study can be used as geno-sensors for rice grains and soil contamination with As (V). Moreover, local rice cultivars may be genetically modified with such genes to induce high resistance and to overcome arsenic soil pollution.', u'/manuscript/201706.0086/v1', [u'Plant Sciences'], []]
[u'Developing and validating an age-independent equation of multi-frequency bioelectrical impedance analysis for estimation of appendicular skeletal muscle mass and establishing sarcopenia cutoff', ['Yosuke Yamada', 'Miyuki Kodama', 'Tomoka Uchiyama', 'Yasuhiro Kasahara', 'Mikio Shindo', 'Motohiko Miyachi', 'Shigeho Tanaka'], u'June 19 2017', u'Background: Appendicular skeletal muscle (or lean) mass (ALM) estimated by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) is considered to be a preferred method for sarcopenia studies. However, DXA is expensive, has limited portability, and requires radiation exposure. Bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA) is inexpensive, easy to use, and portable; thus BIA might be useful in sarcopenia investigations. However, a large variety of models have been commercially supplied by different companies, and for most consumer products, the equations estimating ALM are not disclosed. It is therefore difficult to use these equations for research purposes. In particular, the BIA equation is often age-dependent, which leads to fundamental difficulty in examining age-related ALM loss. The aims of the current study were: 1) to develop and validate an equation to estimate ALM using multi-frequency BIA (MF-BIA) using theoretical models, and 2) to establish sarcopenia cutoff values using the equation for the Japanese population. Mehotds: We measured height (Ht), weight, and ALM obtained by DXA and a standing-posture 8-electrode MF-BIA (5, 50, 250 kHz) in 756 Japanese individuals aged 18 to 86 years old (222 men and 301 women as developing equation group and 97 men and 136 women as a cross validation group). The traditional impedance index (Ht2/Z50) and impedance ratio of high and low frequency (Z250/Z5) of hand to foot values were calculated. Multiple regression analyses were conducted with ALM as dependent variable in men and women separately. Results: We created the following equations: ALM = [0.6947 \xd7 (Ht2/Z50)] + [-55.24 \xd7 (Z250/Z5)] + [-10940 \xd7 (1/Z50)] + 51.33 for men, and ALM = [0.6144 \xd7 (Ht2/Z50)] + [-36.61 \xd7 (Z250/Z5)] + [-9332 \xd7 (1/Z50)] + 37.91 for women. Additionally, we conducted measurements in 1624 men and 1368 women aged 18 to 40 years to establish sarcopenia cutoff values in the Japanese population. The mean values minus 2 standard deviations of the skeletal muscle mass index (ALM/Ht2) in these participants were 6.8 and 5.7 kg/m2 in men and women, respectively. Conclusion: the current study established and validated a theoretical and age-independent equation using MF-BIA to estimate ALM and provided reasonable sarcopenia cutoff values.', u'/manuscript/201706.0081/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'Margarines and fast-food French fries: low content of trans fatty acids', ['Iciar Astiasaran', 'Elena Abella', 'Giulia Gatta', 'Diana Ansorena'], u'June 20 2017', u'The lipid fraction of margarines and fast-food French-fries, two types of foods traditionally high in trans fatty acids (TFA), is assessed. TFA data reported worldwide during the last 20 years have been gathered, and show that some countries still report high TFA amounts in these products.\r\nThe content of TFA was analysed in margarines (2 store and 4 premium brands) and French-fries from fast-food restaurants (5 chains). Margarines showed mean values of 0.68% and 0.43% (gTFA/100g fat) for store and premium brands, respectively. French-fries values ranged from 0.49% to 0.89%. All samples were lower than the 2% set by some European countries as the maximum legal content of TFA in fats, and contained less than 0.5g/serving, so they could also be considered \u201ctrans free products\u201d. \r\nThis work confirmed that the presence of TFA is not significant in the two analysed products and contributes to update food composition tables, key tools for epidemiological and nutrition studies. \r\n', u'/manuscript/201706.0098/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'Tracking Dietary Patterns over 20 Years from Childhood through Adolescence into Young Adulthood: The Saskatchewan Pediatric Bone Mineral Accrual Study', ['Elham Movassagh', 'Adam Baxter-Jones', 'Saija Kontulainen', 'Susan Whiting', 'Hassanali Vatanparast'], u'June 20 2017', u'Dietary patterns established during adolescence might play a role in adulthood disease. We examined the stability of dietary patterns (DPs) from childhood through adolescence and into young adulthood (from age 8 to 34 years). Data from 130 participants (53 females) of Saskatchewan Pediatric Bone Mineral Accrual Study (aged 8-15 years, at baseline) were included. Multiple 24-hour recalls were collected annually from 1991 to 1997, 2002 to 2005 and 2010 and 2011. Using principal component analysis, \u201cVegetarian-style\u201d, \u201cWestern-like\u201d, \u201cHigh-fat, high-protein\u201d, \u201cMixed\u201d and \u201cSnack\u201d DPs were derived at baseline. Applied DP scores for all annual measurements were calculated using factor loading of baseline DPs and energy-adjusted food group intakes. We analyzed data using generalized estimating equations. The tracking coefficient represents correlation between baseline dietary pattern scores and all other follow-up dietary pattern scores. We found a moderate tracking for the \u201cVegetarian-style\u201d (\xdf=0.44, P<0.001) and \u201cHigh-fat, high-protein\u201d (\xdf=0.39, P<0.001) DPs in females and \u201cVegetarian-style\u201d DP (\xdf=0.30, P<0.001) in males. Remaining DPs showed a poor-to-fair tracking in both sexes. No tracking for \u201cWestern-like\u201d DP in females was observed. Assessing overall change in DP scores from childhood to young adulthood showed an increasing trend in adherence to \u201cVegetarian-style\u201d DP and decreasing trend in adherence to \u201cHigh-fat, high-protein\u201d DP by age in both sexes (P<0.001). While \u201cWestern-like\u201d and \u201cMixed\u201d DP scores increased only in males (P<0.001). These findings suggest that healthy dietary habits established during childhood and adolescence moderately continue into adulthood.', u'/manuscript/201706.0092/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'Time Evolving Undirected Graphical Model for Protein-Protein Interaction Networks', ['Yasanthi Hirimutugoda'], u'June 26 2017', u'Proteins are the workhorses of the cell that perform biological functions by interacting with other proteins. Many statistical methods for protein-protein interaction (PPI) have been studied without considering time-dependent changes in networks and the functionalities. I introduced a novel method that models PPI networks as being dynamic in nature and evolving time-varying multivariate distribution with Conditional Random Fields (CRF). This research is directed towards implementing this new combinatorial algorithm on massively parallel architectures such as Graphics Processing Units (GPUs) for efficient computations for large scale bioinformatics datasets. I compared Conditional Random Fields (CRF) and the proposed novel method using CRF combined with the Block Coordinate Descent algorithm for human protein-protein interaction data set. Both are implemented on GPU-Accelerated Computing Architecture and the proposed novel method showed the advantages in predicting protein-protein interaction sites. I also show that the proposed approach is more efficient in 6.13% than standalone CRF++ in predicting protein-protein interaction sites.', u'/manuscript/201706.0114/v1', [u'Biochemistry'], []]
[u'Screening of Genetically Modified (GM) Maize in Commercial Products in Turkey', ['Meltem ASICIOGLU', 'Burhanettin YALCINKAYA', 'Muslum AKGOZ'], u'June 26 2017', u'Nowadays, genetically modified (GM) plants are widely used in commercial products. Cotton, soybean, maize, canola are the most widely consumed foods globally and their derived products have reached the global marketplace. Maize, specially has the greatest diversity of approved GM events globally (a total of 130 varieties approved in one or more countries) It is one of the most widely used staple food and feed ingredients, highly integrated into food and feed supply chains. Due to the fact that GMOs carry environmental risks and human health related risks it is required that the food and their ingredients that either contain GMOs or derived from GMOs should be labelled. In this study, we investigated the taxon-specific cauliflower mosaicvirus 35S promoter region (CaMV), Agrobacterium tumefaciens nonpalin synthase terminator (tNOS) gene and High Mobility Group (HMG) gene as a control gene in maize-containing foods that were obtained from grocery stores in Turkey. DNA extraction was performed by modified CTAB DNA extraction method for all samples and isolated DNA samples were checked by qPCR. Following extraction, the samples were analysed in 2% agarose gel electrophoreses. It was shown that the selected maize-containing foods in Turkey do not contain genetically modified using tNOS and CaMV.', u'/manuscript/201706.0110/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], []]
[u'Sinulariolide Suppresses Cell Migration and Invasion by Inhibiting Matrix Metalloproteinase-2/-9 and Urokinase through the PI3K/AKT/mTOR Signaling Pathway in Human Bladder Cancer Cells', ['Yu-Jen Wu', 'Chih-I Liu', 'Zhong-Hao Din', 'Te-Chih Cheng', 'Jui-Hsin Su'], u'June 27 2017', u'Sinulariolide, a natural product extracted from cultured-type soft coral Sinularia flexibilis, possesses bioactivity against the movement of several types of cancer cell. However, the molecular pathway of its effects on human bladder cancer remain poorly understood. Using a human bladder cancer cell line as an in vitro model, this study investigated the underlying mechanism of sinulariolide against cell migration/invasion in TSGH-8301 cells. We found that sinulariolide inhibited TSGH-8301 cell migration/invasion, and the effect was concentration-dependent. Furthermore, the protein expressions of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) MMP-2 and MMP-9, as well as urokinase, were significantly decreased after 24-h sinulariolide treatment. Meanwhile, the increased expressions of tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases (TIMPs) TIMP-1 and TIMP-2 were in parallel with an increased concentration of sinulariolide. Finally, the expressions of several key phosphorylated proteins in the mTOR signaling pathway were also downregulated by sinulariolide treatment. Our results demonstrated that sinulariolide has significant effects against TSGH-8301 cell migration/invasion, and its effects were associated with decreased levels of MMP-2/-9 and urokinase expression, as well as increased TIMP-1/TIMP-2 expression. The inhibitory effects were mediated by reducing phosphorylation proteins of the PI3K, AKT and mTOR signaling pathway. The findings suggested that sinulariolide is a good candidate for advanced investigation with the aim of developing a new drug for the treatment of human bladder cancer.', u'/manuscript/201706.0120/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], []]
[u'A National Dietary Assessment Reference Database (NDARD) for the Dutch population: rationale behind the design', ['Elske Brouwer-Brolsma', 'Martinette Streppel', 'Linde van Lee', 'Anouk Geelen', 'Diewertje Sluik', 'Anne van de Wiel', 'Jeanne De Vries', "Pieter van 't Veer", 'Edith J.M. Feskens'], u'June 27 2017', u'The development of reliable Food Frequency Questionnaires (FFQs) requires detailed information about the level and variation of dietary food intake of the target population. However, these data are often limited. To facilitate the development of new high quality FFQs and validation of existing FFQs, we developed a comprehensive National Dietary Assessment Reference Database (NDARD) detailing information about the level and variation in dietary food intake of people 20-70 years old in the general Dutch population. This paper describes the methods and characteristics of the population included in the NDARD database. 1063 men and 985 women agreed to participate in this research. Dietary intake data were collected using different FFQs, web-based and telephone-based 24-hour recalls, as well as blood and urine-based biomarkers. The baseline FFQ was completed by 1647 participants whose mean BMI was 26\xb14 kg/m2; 1117 participants completed telephone-based recalls and 1781 participants completed web-based recalls. According to the baseline FFQ, the mean energy intake was 2051\xb1605 kcal/day. The percentage of total energy intake from protein was 15\xb12 En%, from carbohydrates was 43\xb16 En%, and from fat was 36\xb15 En%. This database will enable researchers to validate existing FFQs and to develop new high quality dietary assessment methods.', u'/manuscript/201706.0118/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'Molecular interactions of autophagy with the immune system and cancer', ['Yonggeun Hong', 'Yunho Jin', 'Yunkyung Hong', 'Chanyoung Park'], u'June 27 2017', u'Autophagy is a highly conserved catabolic mechanism that mediates the degradation of damaged cellular components by inducing their fusion with lysosomes. This process provides cells with an alternative source of energy for the synthesis of new proteins and the maintenance of metabolic homeostasis in stressful environments. Numerous studies have demonstrated beneficial roles for the induction as well as the suppression of autophagy in cancer cells. Autophagy may induce either survival or death depending on the cell/tissue type. Radiation therapy is widely used therapeutic option to treat cancer, and it induces autophagy in human cancer cell line. Also, melatonin seems to affect cancer cell death via regulation of programmed cell death. In this review, we summarize the current understanding of autophagy and its regulation in cancer.', u'/manuscript/201706.0121/v1', [u'Immunology'], []]
[u'Possible Reactions of Dietary Phenolic Compounds with Salivary Nitrite and Thiocyanate in the Stomach', ['Umeo Takahama', 'Sachiko Hirota'], u'June 28 2017', u'Foods are mixed with saliva in the oral cavity and swallowed. During staying in the stomach, saliva is contentiously provided to mix with the ingested foods. Because a salivary component nitrite is protonated to produce active nitrous acid at acidic pH, the redox reactions of nitrous acid with phenolic compounds in foods become possible in the stomach. In the reactions, nitrous acid is reduced to nitric oxide (\u2022NO), producing various products from phenolic compounds. In the products, stable hydroxybezoyl benzofuranone derivatives, which are produced from quercetin and its 7-O-glucoside, are included. Caffeic acid, chlorogenic acid, and rutin are oxidized to quinones and the quinones can react with thiocyanic acid derived from saliva producing stable oxathiolone derivatives. 6,8-Dinitrosocatechis are produced from catechins by the redox reaction, and the dinitrocatechins are oxidized further by nitrous acid producing the quinones, which can make charge transfer complexes with the dinitrosocatechin and can react with thiocyanic acid producing the stable thiocyanate conjugates. In this way, various products can be produced by the reactions of salivary nitrite with dietary phenolic compounds, and reactive and toxic quinones formed by the reactions are postulated to be removed in the stomach by thiocyanic acid derived from saliva.', u'/manuscript/201706.0125/v1', [u'Biochemistry'], []]
[u'2,5-Dihydroxyacetophenone Induces Apoptosis of Multiple Myeloma Cells by Regulating the MAPK Activation Pathway', ['Jeong-Hyeon Ko', 'Jae Hwi Lee', 'Sang Hoon Jung', 'Seok-Geun Lee', 'Arunachalam Chinnathambi', 'Sulaiman Ali Alharbi', 'Woong Mo Yang', 'Jae-Young Um', 'Gautam Sethi', 'Kwang Seok Ahn'], u'June 29 2017', u'2,5-Dihydroxyacetophenone (DHAP) is an active compound obtained from Radix Rehmanniae Preparata, which is widely used as a herbal medicine in many Asian countries. DHAP has been found to possess anti-inflammatory, anti-anxiety, and neuroprotective qualities. For the present study, we evaluated the anti-cancer effects of DHAP on multiple myeloma cells. It was discovered that DHAP downregulated the expression of oncogenic gene products like Bcl-xl, Bcl-2, Mcl-1, Survivin, Cyclin D1, IAP-1, Cyclin E, COX-2, and MMP-9, and upregulated the expression of Bax and p21 proteins, consistent with the induction of G2/M phase cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in U266 cells. DHAP inhibited cell proliferation and induced apoptosis, as characterized by the cleavage of PARP and the activation of caspase-3, caspase-8, and caspase-9. Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathways have been linked to the modulation of the angiogenesis, proliferation, metastasis, and invasion of tumors. We therefore attempted to determine the effect of DHAP on MAPK signaling pathways, and discovered that DHAP treatment induced a sustained activation of JNK, ERK1/2, and p38 MAPKs. DHAP also potentiated the pro-apoptotic and anti-proliferative effects of bortezomib in U266 cells. Our results suggest that DHAP can be an effective therapeutic agent to target multiple myeloma.', u'/manuscript/201706.0126/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], []]
[u'Calcium Sparks in Cardiac Cells in Silico', ['Alexander Ryvkin', 'N.S. Markov'], u'June 30 2017', u'We simulate elementary calcium release events (sparks) in a single calcium release unit in ventricular myocyte. Previously developed and tested electron-conformational model of the stochastic dynamics of RyR-channels is integrated to the calcium dynamics model in the cardiac cell. This approach allows to observe RyRs opening/closing in details on the macromolecular level during the calcium dynamics course. We simulate calcium diffusion in the dyadic space and \u201cdomino-like\u201d RyR\u2019s activation during the so-called \u201ccalcium induced-calcium release process\u201d. Ca2+ sparks initiation, spread and termination are investigated in the computer experiments. Sparks\u2019 initiation and termination rate dependence on the Ca2+ diffusion velocity is observed. We show that sarcoplasmic reticulum lumen local depletion and RyR\u2019s stochastic attrition could be the reasons of Ca2+ spark termination.', u'/manuscript/201706.0131/v1', [u'Physiology'], []]
[u'Sex Determining Mechanisms in Bivalves', ['Sophie Breton', 'Charlotte Capt', 'Davide Guerraa', 'Donald Stewart'], u'June 30 2017', u'In this review, we provide an overview of the current knowledge on the different sexual systems and sex determining mechanisms in bivalves, with a focus on the various epigenetic and genetic factors that may be involved. The final section of the review provides recent discoveries on sex-specific mitochondrial genes in bivalves possessing the unconventional system of doubly uniparental inheritance of mitochondria (which is found in several members of the orders Mytiloida, Unionoida, Veneroida and Nuculanoida). The genes involved in this developmental pathway could represent the first sex determination system in animals in which mitochondrially-encoded genes are directly involved.', u'/manuscript/201706.0127/v1', [u'Animal Sciences & Zoology'], []]
[u'Chronic Wasting Disease: Evolution of Diagnostic Testing for a Naturally Occurring Prion Disease', ['Nicholas J. Haley', 'Juergen A. Richt'], u'July 3 2017', u'Since chronic wasting disease (CWD) was first identified nearly 50 years ago in a captive mule deer herd in the Rocky Mountains of the United States, it has slowly spread across North America through the natural and anthropogenic movement of cervids and their carcasses.\xa0 As the endemic areas have expanded, so has the need for rapid, sensitive, and cost effective diagnostic tests \u2013 especially those which take advantage of samples collected antemortem.\xa0 Over the past two decades, strategies have evolved from the recognition of microscopic spongiform pathology and associated immunohistochemical staining of the misfolded prion protein to enzyme-linked immunoassays capable of detecting the abnormal prion conformer in postmortem samples.\xa0 In a history that parallels the diagnosis of more conventional infectious agents, both qualitative and real-time amplification assays have recently been developed to detect minute quantities of misfolded prions in a range of biological and environmental samples.\xa0 With these more sensitive and semi-quantitative approaches has come a greater understanding of the pathogenesis and epidemiology of this disease in the native host.\xa0 Because the molecular pathogenesis of prion protein misfolding is broadly analogous to the misfolding of other pathogenic proteins, including A\u03b2 and \u03b1-synuclein, efforts are currently underway to apply these in vitro amplification techniques towards the diagnosis of Alzheimer\u2019s disease, Parkinson\u2019s disease, and other proteinopathies.\xa0 \xa0Chronic wasting disease \u2013 once a rare disease of Colorado mule deer \u2013 now represents one of the few naturally occurring protein misfolding disorders which might allow continued development and implementation of novel diagnostic strategies in an animal model.', u'/manuscript/201707.0003/v1', [u'Veterinary Medicine'], []]
[u'Preventing Diabetes\u2014What Is the Potential of Daily Water Intake and Its Mineral Nutrients?', ['Johannes Naumann', 'Diana Biehler', 'Tania Luty', 'Catharina Sadaghiani'], u'July 6 2017', u'To address the question whether there is evidence that drinking water in general or mineral water in particular is effective in preventing diabetes; we performed a literature search of randomized controlled trials (PubMed). The search resulted in very few trials (N = 9) investigating this topic: one trial investigates the effect of increasing water consumption on glycemic control in diabetic patients; two trials investigate the effect of drinking water with a meal in diabetic patients; while six trials compare the effect of mineral rich water with that of low mineralized water on glucose metabolism in healthy subjects. There is evidence that increasing water consumption can improve glucose metabolism and randomized controlled trials with mineral water suggest that waters containing relevant amounts of magnesium can exert an additional effect. The role of bicarbonate; which is present in all the mineral waters used in the trials; will be discussed. Future research needs to investigate the effect of mineral water in prediabetic individuals or individuals with impaired glycemic control.', u'/manuscript/201707.0012/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'Principles of Dynamic Network Reconfiguration across Diverse Brain States', ['James M. Shine', 'Russell A. Poldrack'], u'July 10 2017', u'Recent methodological advances have enabled researchers to track the network structure of the human brain over time. Together, these studies provide novel insights into effective brain function, highlighting the importance of the systems-level perspective in understanding the manner in which the human brain organizes its activity to facilitate behavior. Here, we review a range of recent fMRI and electrophysiological studies that have mapped the relationship between inter-regional communication and network structure across a diverse range of brain states. In doing so, we identify both behavioral and biological axes that may underlie the tendency for network reconfiguration. We conclude our review by providing suggestions for future research endeavors that may help to refine our understanding of the functioning of the human brain.', u'/manuscript/201707.0014/v1', [u'Behavioral Neuroscience'], []]
[u'Regulation and Modulation of Human DNA Polymerase \u03b4 Activity and Function', ['Mariettta Lee', 'Xiaoxiao Wang', 'Sufang Zhang', 'Zhongtao Zhang', 'Ernest Lee'], u'July 10 2017', u'This review focuses on the regulation and modulation of human DNA polymerase \u03b4 (Pol \u03b4). The emphasis is on mechanisms that regulate the activity and properties of Pol \u03b4 in DNA repair and replication. The areas covered are the degradation of the p12 subunit of Pol \u03b4, which converts it from a heterotetramer (Pol \u03b44) to a heterotrimer (Pol \u03b43), in response to DNA damage and also during the cell cycle. The biochemical mechanisms that lead to degradation of p12 are reviewed, as well as the properties of Pol \u03b44 and Pol \u03b43 that provide insights into their functions in DNA replication and repair. The second focus of the review involves the functions of two Pol \u03b4 binding proteins, PDIP46 and PDIP38, both of which are multi-functional proteins. PDIP46 is a novel activator of Pol \u03b44, and the impact of this function is discussed in relation to its potential roles in DNA replication. Several new models for the roles of Pol \u03b43 and Pol \u03b44 in leading and lagging strand DNA synthesis that integrate a role for PDIP46 are presented. PDIP38 has multiple cellular localizations including the mitochondria, the splicesosomes and the nucleus. It has been implicated in a number of cellular functions, including the regulation of specialized DNA polymerases, mitosis, the DNA damage response, Mdm2 alternative splicing and the regulation of the Nox4 NADPH oxidase.', u'/manuscript/201707.0016/v1', [u'Biochemistry'], []]
[u'In Quest for Improved Drugs against Diabetes: The Added Value of X-ray Powder Diffraction Methods', ['Fotini Karavassili', 'Alexandros Valmas', 'Stavroula Fili', 'Christos D. Georgiou', 'Irene Margiolaki'], u'July 12 2017', u'Human Insulin (HI) is a well-characterized natural hormone which regulates glycose levels into the blood-stream and is widely used for diabetes treatment. Numerous studies have manifested that despite significant efforts devoted to structural characterization of this molecule and its complexes with organic compounds (ligands), there is still a rich diagram of phase transitions and novel crystalline forms to be discovered. Towards the improvement of drug delivery, identification of new insulin polymorphs from polycrystalline samples, simulating the commercially available drugs, is feasible today via macromolecular X- ray powder diffraction (XRPD). This approach has been developed and is considered as a respectable method, which can be employed in biosciences for various purposes such as observing phase transitions and characterizing bulk pharmaceuticals. An overview of structural studies on human insulin complexes performed over the past decade employing both synchrotron and laboratory sources for XRPD measurements, is reported herein. This review aims to assemble all recent advances in diabetes treatment field in terms of drug formulation, verifying in parallel the efficiency and applicability of protein XRPD for quick and accurate preliminary structural characterization in large scale.', u'/manuscript/201707.0024/v1', [u'Biochemistry'], []]
[u'Modulation of Gut Microbiota of Overweight Mice by Agavins and Their Association with Body Weight Loss', ['Alicia Huazano-Garcia', 'Hakdong Shin', 'Mercedes G. Lopez'], u'July 12 2017', u'Agavins consumption has lead to accelerate body weight loss in mice. We investigated the changes on cecal microbiota and short chain fatty acids (SCFA) associated to body weight loss in overweight mice. Firstly, mice were fed with standard (ST5) or high fat (HF5) diet for 5 weeks. Secondly, overweight mice were shifted to standard diet alone (HF-ST10) or supplemented with agavins (HF-ST+A10) or oligofructose (HF-ST+O10), five more weeks. Cecal contents were collected before and after supplementation to determine microbiota and SCFA concentrations. At the end of first phase, HF5 mice showed a significant increase of body weight, which was associated with reduction of cecal microbiota diversity (PD whole tree; non-parametric t-test, P < 0.05), increased Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes ratio and reduced SCFA concentrations (t-test, P < 0.05). After diet shifted, HF-ST10 normalized its microbiota, increase its diversity and SCFA levels, whereas agavins (HF-ST+A10) or oligofructose (HF-ST+O10) led to partial microbiota restoration, with normalization of the Firmicutes/Bacteroides ratio as well as higher SCFA levels (P < 0.1). Moreover, agavins noticeably enriched Klebsiella and Citrobacter (LDA > 3.0), which have not been reported previously under a prebiotic treatment. In conclusion, agavins or oligofructose modulated cecal microbiota composition, reduced extent of diversity and increased SCFA. Furthermore, identification of bacteria enriched by agavins, opens opportunities to explore new probiotics.', u'/manuscript/201707.0026/v1', [u'Microbiology'], []]
[u'Diet, Gut Microbiome and Epigenetics: Emerging Links with Inflammatory Bowel Diseases and Prospects for Management and Prevention', ['Krasimira Aleksandrova', 'Beatriz Romero', 'Vicent Hernandez'], u'July 15 2017', u'Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) represent a growing public health concern due to increasing incidence worldwide. The current notion on the pathogenesis of IBD is that genetically susceptible individuals develop intolerance to dysregulated gut microflora (dysbiosis) and chronic inflammation develops as a result of environmental triggers. Among the environmental factors associated to IBD, diet plays an important role in modulating the gut microbiome, influencing epigenetic changes and, therefore, could be applied as a therapeutic tool to improve the disease course. Nevertheless, the current dietary recommendations for disease prevention and management are scarce and of weak evidence. This review summarizes the current knowledge on the complex interactions among diet, microbiome and epigenetics in IBD. Whereas over-abundance of calories and some macronutrients increases gut inflammation, several micronutrients have the potential to modulate it. Immunonutrition has emerged as a new concept putting forward the importance of vitamins such as vitamins A, C, E, D, folic acid and beta-carotene and trace elements such as zinc, selenium, manganese and iron. However, when assessed in clinical trials, specific micronutrients exerted a limited benefit. Beyond nutrients, anti-inflammatory dietary patterns as a complex intervention approach have become popular over the recent years. Hence, exclusive enteral nutrition in pediatric Crohn\u2019s disease is the only nutritional intervention currently recommended as a first-line therapy. Other nutritional interventions or specific diets including the Specific Carbohydrate Diet, the low fermentable oligosaccharides, disaccharides, monosaccharides, and polyol diet and most recently the Mediterranean diet have shown strong anti-inflammatory properties and provide a promise for improving disease symptoms. Definitely, more work is required to evaluate the role of individual food compounds and complex nutritional interventions with potential to decrease inflammation as means for prevention and management of IBD.', u'/manuscript/201707.0039/v1', [u'Allergology'], []]
[u'Combination of Hypertension and High Fat and Cholesterol Diet Induces Severe Hepatic Inflammation in Rats via a Signaling Network Comprising NF-\u03baB, MAPK, and Nrf2 Pathways', ['Yuan Yuan', 'Hisao Naito', 'Kazuya Kitamori', 'Tamie Nakajima'], u'July 14 2017', u'Populations with essential hypertension have a high risk of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). In this study, we investigated the mechanism that underlies the progression of hypertension-associated NASH by comparing differences in the development of high fat and cholesterol (HFC) diet-induced NASH among three strains of rats, i.e., two hypertensive strains comprising spontaneously hypertensive rats and the stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive 5/Dmcr, and the original Wistar Kyoto rats as the normotensive control. We investigated histopathological changes and molecular signals related to inflammation in the liver after feeding with the HFC diet for 8 weeks. The diet induced severe lobular inflammation and fibrosis in the livers of the hypertensive rats, whereas it only caused mild steatohepatitis in the normotensive rats. Increased activation of proinflammatory signaling (transforming growth factor-\u03b21/mitogen-activated protein kinases pathway) was observed in the hypertensive strains fed with the HFC diet. In addition, the HFC diet suppressed the nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 pathway in the hypertensive rats and led to lower increases in the hepatic expression of heme oxygenase-1, which has anti-oxidative and anti-inflammatory activities. In conclusion, these signaling pathways might play crucial roles in the development of hypertension-associated NASH.', u'/manuscript/201707.0033/v1', [u'Gastroenterology'], []]
[u'The Importance of Controlling the TGF-\u03b2 Signaling Pathway in the Gastric Cancer Microenvironment', ['Jun Kinoshita', 'Sachio Fushida', 'Tetsuo Ohta'], u'July 14 2017', u'Gastric cancer is an intractable disease with a high incidence of peritoneal dissemination and obstructive symptoms (e.g. ileus, jaundice, and hydronephrosis) arising from accompanying marked fibrosis. Microenvironmental interactions between cancer cells and stromal cells are the suggested cause of the disease. Transforming growth factor (TGF-\u03b2) is an intriguing cytokine exhibiting dual roles in malignant disease, acting as an important mediator of cancer invasion, metastasis, and angiogenesis as well as exhibiting antitumor functions. Moreover, the TGF-\u03b2 pathway contributes to the generation of a favorable microenvironment for tumor growth and metastasis throughout the steps of carcinogenesis. Among these effects, TGF-\u03b2 induces the epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition with prometastatic functions, contributes to the conversion of stromal cells to carcinoma-associated fibroblasts, and suppresses the function of immune cells, which compromises the antitumor immune response, leading to cancer progression and stromal fibrosis. In this review, we address the role of the essential TGF-\u03b2 signaling pathway in the regulation of the activities of components of the tumor microenvironment of gastric cancer and how this contributes to tumor progression and stromal fibrosis. We then explore the potential to optimize therapy that inhibits TGF-\u03b2 signaling in the preclinical and clinical settings of gastric cancer.', u'/manuscript/201707.0035/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], []]
[u'Pine nuts: a review of recent sanitary conditions and market development', ['Davide Pettenella', 'Hafiz Umair M. Awan'], u'July 17 2017', u'Pine nuts are non-wood forest products (NWFP) with constantly growing market notwithstanding a series of phytosanitary issues and related trade problems. The aim of paper is to review the literature on the relationship between phytosanitary problems and trade development. Production and trade of pine nuts in Mediterranean Europe have been negatively affected by the spreading of Sphaeropsis sapinea (a fungus) associated to an adventive insect Leptoglossus occidentalis (fungal vector), with impacts on forest management activities, production and profitability and thus in value chain organization. Reduced availability of domestic production in markets with growing demand has stimulated the import of pine nuts. China has become a leading exporter of pine nuts, but its export is affected by a symptom associated to the nuts of some pine species: the \u2018pine nut syndrome\u2019 (PNS). Most of the studies embraced during the review are associated to PNS occurrence associated to the nuts of Pinus armandii. In the literature review we highlight the need for a comprehensive and interdisciplinary approach to the analysis of the pine nuts value chain organisation, where research on food properties and clinical toxicology be connected to breeding and forest management, forest pathology and entomology and trade development studies.', u'/manuscript/201707.0041/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Health Risk Assessment of VOCs from Surgical Smoke', ['Shaohua She', 'Gang Lu', 'Wah Yang', 'Mianwei Hong', 'Lingfei Zhu'], u'July 17 2017', u"Surgical smoke is produced by energy-based surgical instruments. The airborne volatile organic compounds (VOCs) from surgical smoke may have potential health risk. This study aimed to evaluate the evidence for the harmful effects on the operating theater staff. An internationally recognized evaluation model of health risk assessment (HRA) was adapted to preliminarily assess the health risks caused by VOCs in surgical smoke. Results of HRA indicated that non-carcinogenic risk indexes of VOCs did not exceed one, indicating that these pollutants didn't cause significant non-carcinogenic harm to the health of the operating theater staff. But the cancer risk indexes exposed to formaldehyde and benzene all exceed 10-5, which was higher than the suggested value of USEPA (10-6) and might cause potential harm to the health of the operating theater staff. Long-term exposure of such surgical smoke will be harmful to the health of the operating theater staff and have a great risk of cancer.", u'/manuscript/201707.0042/v1', [u'Nursing & Health Studies'], []]
[u'Screening for Target Genes of CLDN6 in Breast Cancer Cell Line MCF-7 using Microarray Technology', ['Ting Zhang', 'Minlan Yang', 'Yanru Li', 'Shuai Zhao', 'Yan Lu', 'Xiangshu Jin', 'Peiye Song', 'Yantong Guo', 'Xiaoli Zhang', 'Chengshi Quan'], u'July 17 2017', u'Claudin-6 (CLDN6), one of CLDNs family which as the important component of tight junctions (TJs). CLDN6 function as a tumor suppressor in breast cancer as we declared before, whereas the molecular mechanism of CLDN6 on suppressing malignant phenotype of breast cancer is unclear. Gene expression profiling was used to investigate target genes of CLDN6 and the mechanism involved in malignant phenotypes of breast cancer cell line MCF-7. In three clones of CLDN6 over-expressed MCF-7 cells (MCF-7(CLDN6)), 54 up-regulated and 24 down-regulated genes were detected. Gene Ontology (GO) analysis revealed that differential expressed genes in MCF-7(CLDN6) clones mainly located on the membrane and nucleus, involved in metabolic processes, biological regulation, protein binding and cell communication. KEGG pathway enrichment analysis revealed that among the target genes and related pathways, three MCF-7(CLDN6) clones co-upregulated gene Stat4 and the other members of Jak/Stats signal pathway (Tyk2, Stat1, Stat3, Stat5a, Stat5b and Stat6) were up-regulated in the other two of MCF-7(CLDN6) clones, which have been participate in the signal transduction pathway in cancer. MTT assay, wound healing assay and invasion assay showed that inhibiting the Tyk2/Stats signal pathway with the tyrosine kinase inhibitor AG490 partially reversed the effect of CLDN6 on proliferation, migration and invasion of MCF-7 cells, besides, AG490 reversed expressions of EMT markers when CLDN6 overexpression brought, the data confirmed that, under the effect of high flux, gene expression profiling can be used as a means to study genes affected by CLDN6, and to screen the key regulatory genes involved in breast cancer.', u'/manuscript/201707.0046/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], []]
[u'Fighting Cancer with Mathematics and Viruses', ['Daniel N. Santiago', 'Johannes P. W. Heidbuechel', 'Wendy M. Kandell', 'Rachel Walker', 'Christine E. Engeland', 'Daniel Abate-Daga', 'Heiko Enderling'], u'July 17 2017', u'After decades of research, oncolytic virotherapy has recently advanced to clinical application, and currently a multitude of novel agents and combination treatments are being evaluated for cancer therapy. Oncolytic agents preferentially replicate in tumor cells, inducing tumor cell lysis and complex anti-tumor effects, such as innate and adaptive immune responses and the destruction of tumor vasculature. With the availability of different vector platforms and the potential of both genetic engineering and combination regimens to enhance particular aspects of safety and efficacy, the identification of optimal treatments for patient subpopulations or even individual patients becomes a top priority. Mathematical modeling can provide support in this arena by making use of experimental and clinical data to generate hypotheses about the mechanisms underlying complex biology and, ultimately, predict optimal treatment protocols. Increasingly complex models can be applied to account for therapeutically relevant parameters such as components of the immune system. In this review, we describe current developments in oncolytic virotherapy and mathematical modeling to discuss the benefit of integrating different modeling approaches into biological and clinical experimentation. Conclusively, we propose a mutual combination of these fields of research for more efficient development and effective treatments.', u'/manuscript/201707.0045/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Challenges for Uneven-Aged Silviculture in Restoration of Post-Disturbance Forests', ['Jurij Diaci', 'Dusan Rozenbergar', 'Gal Fidej', 'Thomas A. Nagel'], u'July 18 2017', u'Forest managers are often required to restore forest stands following natural disturbances, a situation that may become more common and more challenging under global change. In parts of Central Europe, particularly in mountain regions dominated by mixed temperate forests, the use of relatively low intensity, uneven-aged silviculture is a common management approach. Because this type of management is based on mimicking less intense disturbances, the restoration of more severe disturbance patches within forested landscapes has received little attention within the context of uneven-aged silviculture in the region. The goal of this paper is to synthesize research on the restoration of forests damaged by disturbances in temperate forests of Slovenia and neighbouring regions of Central Europe, where uneven-aged silviculture is practiced. We place particular emphasis on the most important biotic and abiotic drivers of post-disturbance regeneration, and use this information to inform silvicultural decisions about applying natural or artificial regeneration in disturbed areas. We conclude with guidelines for restoration silviculture in uneven-aged forest landscapes.', u'/manuscript/201707.0051/v1', [u'Forestry'], []]
[u'Genetic Structure and Eco-Geographical Differentiation of Wild Sheep Fescue (Festuca ovina L.) in Xinjiang, Northwest China', ['Chenglin Zhang', 'Jianbo Zhang', 'Yan Fan', 'Ming Sun', 'Wendan Wu', 'Wenda Zhao', 'Xiaopeng Yang', 'Linkai Huang', 'Yan Peng', 'Xiao Ma', 'Xinquan Zhang'], u'July 18 2017', u'Glaciation and mountain orogeny have generated new ecologic opportunities for plants, favoring an increase in the speciation rate. Moreover, they also act as corridors or barriers for plant lineages and populations. High genetic diversity ensures that species are able to survive and adapt. Gene flow is one of the most important determinants of the genetic diversity and structure of out-crossed species, and it is easily affected by biotic and abiotic factors. The aim of this study was to characterize the genetic diversity and structure of an alpine species, Festuca ovina L., in Xingjiang, China. A total of 100 individuals from 10 populations were analyzed using six amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) primer pairs. A total of 583 clear bands were generated, of which 392 were polymorphic; thus, the percentage of polymorphic bands (PPB) was 67.24%. The total and average genetic diversities were 0.2722 and 0.2006 (0.1686-0.2225), respectively. The unweighted group method with arithmetic mean (UPGMA) tree, principal coordinates analysis (PCoA) and STRUCTURE analyses revealed that these populations or individuals could be clustered into two groups. The analysis of molecular variance analysis (AMOVA) suggested that most of the genetic variance existed within a population, and the genetic differentiation (Fst) among populations was 20.71%. The Shannon differentiation coefficient (G\u2019st) among populations was 0.2350. Limited gene flow (Nm = 0.9571) was detected across all sampling sites. The Fst and Nm presented at different levels under the genetic barriers due to fragmentation. The population genetic diversity was significant relative to environmental factors such as temperature, altitude and precipitation.', u'/manuscript/201707.0047/v1', [u'Genetics'], []]
[u'Iodine Intake through Processed Food: Case studies from Egypt, Indonesia, the Philippines, the Russian Federation and Ukraine, 2010-2015', ['Jacky Knowles', 'Frits van der Haar', 'Magdy Shehata', 'Gregory Gerasimov', ' Bimo', 'Bettina Cavenagh', 'Cherry C Maramag', 'Edward Otico', 'Doddy Izwardy', 'Renecca Spohrer', 'Greg S Garrett'], u'July 19 2017', u'The current performance indicator for universal salt iodization (USI) is the percent of households using adequately iodized salt. However, the proportion of dietary salt from household salt is decreasing with the increase in consumption of processed foods and condiments globally. This paper reports on case studies supported by the GAIN-UNICEF USI Partnership Project to investigate processed food industry use of adequately iodized salt in contrasting national contexts. Studies were conducted in Egypt, Indonesia, the Philippines, the Russian Federation, and Ukraine. In all cases, the potential iodine intake from iodized salt in selected food products was modelled according to the formula: Quantity of salt per unit of food product x minimum regulated iodine level of salt at production x average daily per capita consumption of the product. The percent of adult recommended nutrient intake for iodine potentially provided by the average daily intake of bread and frequently consumed foods and condiments was from 10% to 80% at the individual product level. The potential contribution to iodine intake from the use of iodized salt in the processed food industry is of growing significance. National USI strategies should encourage co-operative industry engagement and include regulatory monitoring of iodized salt use in the food industry in order to achieve optimal population iodine status.', u'/manuscript/201707.0056/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'The Dynamics of the Light Adaptation of the Human Visual System; Subjective and Electroretinographic Analysis', ['Friederike Thoss', 'Simone Ballosek', 'Bengt Bartsch', 'Franz Thoss'], u'July 19 2017', u'The excitation of the visual system increases with increasing retinal illumination. At the same time, the sensitivity of the system decreases (light adaptation). Higher excitation automatically results in a lower sensitivity. This study investigates whether this parallelism between the excitation and the sensitivity also applies in the dynamic case, that is, during the transition to a higher excitation level after an increase in the retinal illuminance. For this purpose, the courses of the subjective and the electroretinographic threshold during the transitional phase after a step of the adaptation illumination was determined by means of a special light-stimulation apparatus. As a measure of the course of the excitation during this time, the response ERG on the adaptation step was recorded with a special amplifier. The threshold curve always has an overswing, which shows subjectively very strong differences. It can be concluded that the glare caused by a sudden increase in illuminance is subjectively very different. The comparison between the response ERG on the adaptation step and the course of the electroretinographic increment threshold during this time shows a broad agreement between the two courses. It can thus be assumed that the sensitivity of the visual system follows the course of the excitation also in the dynamic case. In addition, the investigation shows that the glare experienced after a step in the illuminance clearly shows great subjective differences.', u'/manuscript/201707.0055/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Garlic (Allium sativum L.) Growth Parameters as Affected by Different Mulching with Irrigation under Fiche Condition, Ethiopia', ['Weldemariam Seifu Gessesew', 'Tsion Yemane Gebreslassie'], u'July 19 2017', u'A field experiment to assess the effect of mulch on growth (days to maturity, plant height, leaf length and leaf number) of Garlic (Allium Sativum L.) was conducted in 2015 - 2016 at Addis Ababa University Selale campus, on demonstration field to identify optimum plant growth using different mulches for Garlic tested independently. The experiment was designed using randomized complete block. The analyzed result using ANOVA shows significance difference among the treatments. Plots treated with black polyethylene mulch and grass mulch enhanced maturity by about 114 and 116 days, respectively, while garlic in control showed slightly delayed maturity of 125 days. Maximum plant height (66.5 cm) was recorded in the plants mulched by black polyethylene mulch followed by grass mulch which records 62.3 cm and 52.3 cm, respectively. A highly significant variation (p<0.05) in the leaf length was observed at the different mulch treatments. Significantly maximum leaf number (15.3) was recorded in plants mulched with black polyethylene followed by grass mulch with 14.0 leaf number. Thus, black polyethylene and grass mulch performs better than control treatment in growth parameter evaluation of garlic plants under fiche condition.', u'/manuscript/201707.0053/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Bioelectrochemical Changes During the Early Stages of Chalcopyrite Interaction with Acidithiobacillus thiooxidans and Leptospirillum sp.', ['Irene Lopez-Cazares', 'O. Araceli Patron-Soberano', 'J. Viridiana Garcia-Meza'], u'July 21 2017', u'A bioelectrochemical study of charge transfer in the biofilm/chalcopyrite interface was performed to investigate the effect of surficial sulfur reduced species (SRS), as non-stochiometric compounds or polysulfides (Sn2-), and elemental sulfur (S0) on a biofilm structure during the earliest stages (1, 12 and 24 h) of chalcopyrite biooxidation by A. thiooxidans alone and adding Leptospirillum sp. The surface of massive chalcopyrite electrodes was exposed to the bacteria, which were analyzed electrochemically, spectroscopically, and microscopically. At the studied earlier times, charge transfer and significant differences in the biofilm structure were detected, depending on the presence of Leptospirillum sp. acting on A. thiooxidans biofilms. Such differences were a consequence of a continuous chalcopyrite pitting and promoting changes in biofilm hydropathy. A. thiooxidans modifies the reactive properties of SRS and favors an acidic dissolution, which shifts into ferric when Leptospirillum sp. is present. A. thiooxidans allows H+ and Fe3+ diffusion, and Leptospirillum sp. allows surpassing the charge transfer (reactivity) barrier between the mineral interface and the ions. The observed changes of hydropathy on the interface are associated to ions and electrons activity and transfer. Finally, a model of S0 biooxidation by A. thiooxidans alone or with Leptospirillum sp., is proposed.', u'/manuscript/201707.0063/v1', [u'Microbiology'], []]
[u'The Stem Cell Division Theory of Cancer', ['Miguel Lopez-Lazaro'], u'July 26 2017', u'All cancer registries constantly show striking differences in cancer incidence by age and among tissues. For example, lung cancer is diagnosed hundreds of times more often at age 70 than at age 20, and this cancer in nonsmokers occurs thousands of times more frequently than heart cancer in smokers. An analysis of these differences using basic concepts in cell biology indicates that cancer is the end-result of the accumulation of cell divisions in stem cells. In other words, the main determinant of carcinogenesis is the number of cell divisions that the DNA of a stem cell has accumulated in any type of cell from the zygote. Cell division, process by which a cell copies and separates its cellular components to finally split into two cells, is necessary to produce the large number of cells required for living. However, cell division can lead to a variety of cancer-promoting errors, such as mutations occurring during DNA replication, chromosome aberrations arising during mitosis, errors in the distribution of cell-fate determinants between the daughter cells, and failures to restore physical interactions with other tissue components. Some of these errors are spontaneous, others are promoted by endogenous DNA damage occurring during quiescence, and others are influenced by pathological and environmental factors. The cell divisions required for carcinogenesis are primarily caused by multiple local and systemic physiological signals rather than by errors in the DNA of the cells. As carcinogenesis progresses, the accumulation of DNA errors promotes cell division and eventually triggers cell division under permissive extracellular environments. The accumulation of cell divisions in stem cells drives not only the accumulation of the DNA alterations required for carcinogenesis, but also the formation and growth of the abnormal cell populations that characterize the disease. This model of carcinogenesis provides a new framework for understanding the disease and has important implications for cancer prevention and therapy.', u'/manuscript/201707.0074/v1', [u'Oncology & Oncogenics'], []]
[u'Dynamics of Implementation and Maintenance of Organizational Health Interventions', ['Mohammad S. Jalali', 'Hazhir Rahmandad', 'Sally Lawrence Bullock', 'Alice Ammerman'], u'July 27 2017', u'In this study, we present case studies to explore the dynamics of implementation and maintenance of health interventions. We analyze how specific interventions are built and eroded, how the building and erosion mechanisms are interconnected, and why we can see significantly different erosion rates across otherwise similar organizations. We use multiple comparative obesity prevention case studies to provide empirical information on the mechanisms of interest, and use qualitative systems modeling to integrate our evolving understanding into an internally consistent and transparent theory of the phenomenon. Our preliminary results identify reinforcing feedback mechanisms, including design of organizational processes, motivation of stakeholders, and communication among stakeholders, which influence implementation and maintenance of intervention components. Over time, these feedback mechanisms may drive a wedge between otherwise similar organizations, leading to distinct configurations of implementation and maintenance processes.', u'/manuscript/201707.0080/v2', [u'Nursing & Health Studies'], []]
[u'An In Silico Study of a Novel rpoB Insertion in a Cluster of Clinical Strains of Mycobacterium tuberculosis Highly-Rifampicin Resistant', ['Maria Lucia R. Rossetti', 'Pedro Almeida da Silva', 'Raquel Maschmann', 'Andrea von Groll', 'Leonardo S. Esteves', 'Fernanda S. Spies', 'Evelin Sabini', 'Rubia Raubach Trespach', 'Elis R. Dalla Costa', 'Hermes Luis Neubauer de Amorim'], u'July 27 2017', u'Rifampicin is one of the most important chemotherapeutic agents used in the treatment of tuberculosis. M. tuberculosis clinical strains resistant to rifampicin harbor mainly mutation in an 81-base pair region of rpoB. These mutations mainly consist of single amino acid substitutions. However insertions also can be related with rifampicin resistance strains. Herein, we described an insertion of 12 nucleotides in clinical isolates of M. tuberculosis resistant to rifampicin, all obtained from inmates. To evaluate the importance this insertion in surviving and drug resistance, it were carried out fitness experimental assays as well as in silico studies of 3D structural models, molecular docking simulations and virtual screening. The medical records of the seven patients showed all were previously treated to tuberculosis. Growth curves shown that the insertion determines a biological cost when compared to wild type rpoB and katG; or the double mutated rpoB S531L and katG S315T. From docking and molecular dynamics simulations it can be inferred that the insertion does not affect the process of synthesis of RNA transcripts. On the other hand, in the mutant RNAP-RIF complex rifampicin confirmed a low affinity interaction for the mutant form. Interesting, virtual screening for potential inhibitors for wtRNAP and mRNAP using a library of 1446 compounds approved by the FDA showed that the best ligands were mainly compounds with antibiotic activity, although the targets involved in the pharmacological action are other than RNAP. In conclusion, seven strains of M. tuberculosis RIF resistant that present an insertion of four amino acids in RNA polymerase showed by growth curve assays, a biological cost. Further, bioinformatics tools had characterized the putative drug resistance dynamic as well as the maintenance of RNA polymerase activity.', u'/manuscript/201707.0078/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], []]
[u'Random network models to predict the long term impact of HPV vaccination on genital warts', ['Javier Diez-Domingo', 'Victor Sanchez-Alonso', 'Rafael-J. Villanueva', 'Luis Acedo', 'Jose-Antonio Morano', 'Javier Villanueva-Oller'], u'July 28 2017', u'HPV vaccine induces a herd immunity effect in genital warts when a large number of the population is vaccinated. That aspect should be taken into account when devising new vaccine strategies, like vaccination at older ages or male vaccination. Therefore it is important to develop mathematical models with good predictive capacities. We devised a sexual contact network that was calibrated to simulate the Spanish epidemiology of different HPV genotypes. Through this model we simulated the scenario that occurred in Australia in 2007, where 12-13 year-old girls where vaccinated with a three-dose schedule of a vaccine containing genotypes 6 and 11, that protect against genital warts, and also a catch-up program in women up to 26 years of age. Vaccine coverage were 73 % in girls with three doses and with coverage rates decreasing with age until 52 % for 20-26 year-olds. A fast 59 % reduction in the genital warts diagnoses occurred in the model in the first years after the start of the program, similar to what was described in the literature.', u'/manuscript/201707.0083/v1', [u'Pediatrics'], []]
[u'Chronic antihypertensive therapy with thiazide diuretics in older women and risk of osteoporotic vertebral fractures: A recently much-debated association', ['Renato De Vecchis De Vecchis', 'Carmelina Ariano', 'Arturo Cesaro', 'Giuseppina Di Biase'], u'July 28 2017', u'An alleged association of chronic use of thiazide diuretics with an increased risk of bone fragility fractures has been highlighted by a relatively recent prospective cohort study (Am J Med. 2016 Dec; 129(12):1299-1306). However, the concept that thiazides exert a beneficial effect on osteoporosis is still a predominant view. This effect would be mediated by the decrease in renal clearance of calcium ions, a pharmacological feature recognized for a long time now to this class of drugs , as opposed to the increase in calcium urinary excretion attributed instead to loop diuretics, i.e. furosemide and similar drugs . The purpose of this retrospective study is to attempt to clarify whether regular use of thiazide diuretics as antihypertensive therapeutics is associated with a significantly increased risk of osteoporotic fractures in female patients, aged over 70 years.', u'/manuscript/201707.0082/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], []]
[u'Identification of Microbial Indicators and Free Living Protozoa in Natural Mineral Water Using Cultural and Molecular Methods.', ['Michele Totaro', 'Beatrice Casini', 'Paola Valentini', 'Mario Miccoli', 'Pier Luigi Lopalco', 'Angelo Baggiani'], u'August 3 2017', u'Italian Directives recommends the good quality of natural mineral waters but literature data assert a potential risk from several microorganisms colonizing wellsprings and mineral water bottling plants. Aim of study is the identification of microorganisms from spring waters (SW) and bottled mineral waters (BMW) samples. Methods: Routine microbiological indicators, Legionella spp., Nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM), protozoa (FLA) and physical-chemical parameters were assessed in 24 SW and 10 BMW samples performing culture methods and molecular tests as PCR and qPCR. Results: In 33 out of 34 samples no cultivable bacteria were isolated with the exception of 83 CFU/L of Mycobacterium gilvum, detected in one warm rich-mineralized SW. qPCR showed the presence of Legionella genomic units in 24% of samples (mean 2,9x102\xb11,7x102 GU/L) and NTM genomic units in 18% of samples (mean 5,7x103\xb14,1x103 GU/L). Vermamoeba vermiformis and Acanthamoeba polyphaga were recovered respectively in 70% of BMW samples (counts from 1,3x103 to 1,2x105) and 42% of SW samples (counts from 1,1x103 to 1,3x104). Vahlkampfia spp. was detected in 42% of SW and 70% of BMW samples (mean 1,3x104 \xb12,9x103 GU/L). Conclusion: The study highlights a low rate of microbial risk and the importance of risk assessment in natural mineral waters.', u'/manuscript/201708.0007/v1', [u'Microbiology'], []]
[u'Complexity-Entropy Maps as a Tool for the Characterization of the Clinical Electrophysiological Evolution of Patients Under Pharmacological Treatment with Psychotropic Drugs', ['Juan M. Diaz', 'Diego M. Mateos', 'Carina Boyallian'], u'August 4 2017', u"In the clinical electrophysiologic practice, the reading and comparing electroencephalographic (EEG) recordings some times is insufficient and take to much time. That is why in the last years it has begun to introduce new methods of EEG analysis, that give a better and faster understanding of the EEG dynamics and allow a rapid intervention in the patient's treatment. Tools coming from the information theory or nonlinear system as an entropy and complexity have been shown to be a very good alternative to address this problem. In this work we introduce a novel method -the permutation Lempel-ziv complexity vs permutation entropy map. This method was applied to EEG of two patients with specific diagnosed pathologies during respective follow up processes of pharmacological changes in order to detect changes that are not evident with the usual inspection method. Our results show that the proposed method are useful for observing an evolutionary retrospective clinical effects of pharmacological interventions in both patients, and from these, to follow the clinical response to the proposed treatment.", u'/manuscript/201708.0013/v1', [u'Clinical Neurology'], []]
[u'Life on the Edge: Latching Dynamics in a Potts Neural Network', ['Chol Jun Kang', 'Michelangelo Naim', 'Vezha Boboeva', 'Alessandro Treves'], u'August 4 2017', u'We study latching dynamics in the adaptive Potts model network, through numerical simulations with randomly and also weakly correlated patterns, and we focus on comparing its slowly and fast adapting regimes. A measure, Q, is used to quantify the quality of latching in the phase space spanned by the number of Potts states S, the number of connections per Potts unit C and the number of stored memory patterns p. We find narrow regions, or bands in phase space, where distinct pattern retrieval and duration of latching combine to yield the highest values of Q. The bands are confined by the storage capacity curve, for large p, and by the onset of finite latching, for low p. Inside the band, in the slowly adapting regime, we observe complex structured dynamics, with transitions at high crossover between correlated memory patterns; while away from the band latching transitions lose complexity in different ways: below, they are clear-cut but last so few steps as to span a transition matrix between states with few asymmetrical entries and limited entropy; while above, they tend to become random, with large entropy and bi-directional transition frequencies, but indistinguishable from noise. Extrapolating from the simulations, the band appears to scale almost quadratically in the p - S plane, and sublinearly in p - C. In the fast adapting regime the band scales similarly, and it can be made even wider and more robust, but transitions between anti-correlated patterns dominate latching dynamics. This suggest that slow and fast adaptation have to be integrated in a scenario for viable latching in a cortical system. The results for the slowly adapting regime, obtained with randomly correlated patterns, remain valid also for the case with correlated patterns, with just a simple shift in phase space.', u'/manuscript/201708.0016/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids protect against ischemia-reperfusion renal injury through AMPK-mediated autophagy', ['Do Hyeong Gwon', 'Tae Woong Hwang', 'Ju-ye Ro', 'Yoon-Joong Kang', 'Jin Young Jeong', 'Do-Kyung Kim', 'Kyu Lim', 'Dong Woon Kim', 'Dae Eun Choi', 'Jwa-Jin Kim'], u'August 4 2017', u'Regulated autophagy is involved in the repair of renal ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI). \u03c93-Polyunsaturated fatty acids (\u03c93-PUFAs) show protective effects against various renal injuries. It was recently reported that \u03c93-PUFAs regulate autophagy. We assessed whether \u03c93-PUFAs attenuated IR-induced acute kidney injury (AKI) and evaluated associated mechanisms. C57Bl/6 background fat-1 mice and wild-type mice (wt) were divided into four groups: wt sham (n = 10), fat-1 sham (n = 10), wt IRI (reperfusion 35 min after clamping both the renal artery and vein; n = 15), and fat-1 IRI (n = 15). Kidneys and blood were harvested 24 h after IRI. Renal histological and molecular data were collected. The kidneys of fat-1 mice showed better renal cell survival, renal function, and pathological damage than those of wt mice after IRI. In addition, fat-1 mice showed less oxidative stress and autophagy impairment; greater amounts of LC3, Beclin-1, and Atg7; lower amounts of p62; and higher levels of renal cathepsin D and ATP6E than wt kidneys. They also showed more AMPK activation, which resulted in the inhibition of phosphorylation of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR). Collectively, \u03c93-PUFAs in fat-1 mice contributed to AMPK mediated autophagy activation, leading to a renoprotective response.', u'/manuscript/201708.0015/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], []]
[u'Sub-Chronic Toxicity Study of Hydroethanolic Leaf Extract of Telfairia Occidentalis Hook. F. (Cucurbitaceae) in Rats', ['Abidemi J. Akindele', 'Joy A. Oladimeji-Salami', 'Ramon A. Oyetola', 'Daniel D. Osiagwu'], u'August 7 2017', u'Background: The leaf of Telfairia occidentalis Hook f. (Cucurbitaceae) is consumed in different parts of Nigeria because of the numerous nutritional and medicinal attributes ascribed to it. The sub-chronic toxicity of the hydroethanolic leaf extract of Telfairia occidentalis (TO) was investigated in this study. Methods: Rats in different groups were separately administered 80, 400 and 2000 mg/kg TO p.o. for 60 days. Animals were sacrificed and blood samples collected for haematological and biochemical analysis. Vital organs were harvested and evaluated for in vivo antioxidants and histopathological changes. Results: Results showed no significant changes in the weight of vital organs except in respect of the testes of the group treated with 2000 mg/kg extract which showed a significant (p<0.05) reduction in weight compared to the control group. There was a significant (p<0.01) increase in sperm motility and count of the group administered 80 mg/kg extract and a significant (p<0.001) reduction was observed at 2000 mg/kg. There were significant increases in the level of Hb and PCV at 80 and 2000 mg/kg of the extract. In respect of liver function parameters, a significant decrease in AST and ALT levels at doses of 400 and 2000 mg/kg relative to control was observed. A significant reduction (p<0.05) in the level of total cholesterol (400 mg/kg) and increase (p<0.05) in level of HDL (80-2000 mg/kg) compared to control was observed. There was also significant (p<0.05) increase in the level of MDA and significant (p<0.05) decrease in SOD level in the testes at 2000 mg/kg. Histopathological assessment of the testes revealed abnormality at this dose. These effects were reversed after 30 days of cessation of administration of TO. Conclusions: The findings showed that the hydroethanolic leaf extract of Telfairia occidentalis is relatively non-toxic on acute and sub-chronic exposure, with potential to elicit anti-anaemic effect, reduce the risk of atherosclerosis and cardiovascular disease, and enhance antioxidant status in the brain and liver. Although possibly beneficial at low dose, the extract could be harmful to the testes on prolonged oral exposure at high dose.', u'/manuscript/201708.0024/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], []]
[u'CBFA2T2 is Associated with a Cancer Stem Cell State in Renal Cell Carcinoma', ['Du-Chu Chen', 'You-de Liang', 'Yi-Ze Wang', 'Chun-Zhi Ai', 'Xin-Xing Zhu', 'Ya-Wei Yan', 'yasmeen saeed', 'Bin Yu', 'Jingying huang', 'Yuxin Gao', 'Jiaqi Liu', 'Yi-zhou jiang', 'Min Liu', 'Demeng Chen'], u'August 7 2017', u'Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is the most common kidney cancer, accounting for approximately 80\u201390 % of all primary kidney cancer. Treatment for patients with advanced RCC remains unsatisfactory. Rare cancer stem cells (CSCs) are proposed to be responsible for failure of current treatment. Here, we investigate the effects of CBFA2T2 on CSCs regulation in RCC, as well as to elucidate the possible mechanisms. We showed that CBFA2T2 expression can significantly predict the survival of RCC patients. Functional assays showed that knocking-down of CBFA2T2 can inhibit cell migration and invasion in 786-O and A-498 cells in vitro, and reduce ALDHhigh CSCs populations. Furthermore, CBFA2T2 expression is necessary for sphere-forming ability and cancer stem cells marker expression in RCC cell lines. Collectively, our data suggest that CBFA2T2 expression correlates with aggressive characteristics of RCC and CBFA2T2 is required for maintenance of \u201cstemness\u201d through regulation of stem cells factors, thereby highlighting CBFA2T2 as a potential therapeutic target for RCC treatment.', u'/manuscript/201708.0023/v1', [u'Oncology & Oncogenics'], []]
[u'Qualitative Studies of Infant and Young Child Feeding in Lower-Income Countries: A Systematic Review and Synthesis of Dietary Patterns and Their Determinants', ['Alessandra N. Bazzano', 'Aiko Kaji', 'Erica Felker-Kantor', 'Kaitlin Storck Potts'], u'August 8 2017', u'Continued high rates of both under- and over-nutrition in low- and low-middle-income countries highlight the importance of understanding dietary practices such as early and exclusive breastfeeding, and dietary patterns such as timely, appropriate complementary feeding\u2014these behaviors that are rooted in complex cultural ecologies. A systematic review and synthesis of available qualitative research related to infant and young child dietary patterns and practices from the perspective of parents and families in low income settings is presented, with a focus on barriers and facilitators to achieving international recommendations. Data from both published and grey literature from 2006-2016 was included in the review. Quality assessment consisted of two phases (CASP guidelines and assessment using GRADE-CERQual), followed by synthesis of the studies identified, and subsequent thematic analysis and interpretation. The findings indicated several categories of both barriers and facilitators, spanning individual and system level factors. The review informs efforts aimed at improving child health and nutrition, and represents the first such comprehensive review of the qualitative literature, uniquely suited to understanding complex behaviors leading to infant and young child dietary patterns.', u'/manuscript/201708.0032/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'Land Use Regression Modeling of Outdoor Noise Exposure in Informal Settlements in Western Cape, South Africa', ['Chloe Sieber', 'Martina S. Ragettli', 'Mark Brink', 'Olaniyan Toyib', 'Roslyn Baatjies', 'Apolline Saucy', 'Nicole Probst-Hensch', 'Mohamed Aqiel Dalvie', 'Martin Roosli'], u'August 9 2017', u'In developing countries, noise exposure and its negative health effects have been little explored. The present study aimed to assess the noise exposure situation in adults living in informal settings in the Western Cape Province, South Africa. We conducted continuous one-week outdoor noise measurements at 134 homes in four different areas. These data were used to develop a land use regression (LUR) model to predict A-weighted day-evening-night equivalent sound level (Lden) from geographic information system (GIS) variables. Mean noise exposure during day (6:00-18:00) was 60.0 A-weighted decibels (dB(A)) (interquartile range 56.9-62.9 dB(A)), during night (22:00-6:00) 52.9 dB(A) (49.3-55.8 dB(A)) and average Lden was 63.0 dB(A) (60.1-66.5 dB(A)). Main predictors of the LUR model were related to road traffic and household density. Model performance was low (adjusted R2=0.130) suggesting that other influences than represented in the geographic predictors are relevant for noise exposure. This is one of the few studies on the noise exposure situation in low- and middle-income countries. It demonstrates that noise exposure levels are high in these settings.', u'/manuscript/201708.0035/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Glycemic Regulation and Cytotoxic Characteristics of the Ethyl Acetate Fraction from Passiflora cincinnata Mast Leaves', ['Charles dos Santos Estrevam', 'Clesio Andrade Lima', 'Jymmys Lopes dos Santos', 'Murilo Marchioro', 'Brancilene Santos Araujo', 'Cristiane Bani Correa', 'Camila M.C Santos', 'Iara Samir Santana', 'Silvan Silva Araujo'], u'August 17 2017', u'Passiflora cincinnata Mast is a plant popularly used in traditional medicine in northeastern Brazil. The present study aimed to evaluate the anti-lipoperoxidative and anti-\u03b1-amylase properties, and cytotoxicity of an extract and fraction of passion fruit leaves (P. cincinnata Mast), as well as the antihyperglecemiant activity of the fraction rich in glycosylated flavonoids and showing low cytotoxicity in rats with a postprandial hyperglycaemia condition. The ethyl acetate fraction (F.ACT) of the P. cincinnata leaves presented the best anti-lipoperoxide properties with TBARs 81.49%, 95.48% and 75.62% lower than AAPH, FeSO4 and H2O2 induced controls, respectively, at 200 \u03bcg.mL-1. In addition, it presented an anti-\u03b1-amylase potential, with a better ability to inhibit the \u03b1-amylase enzyme in comparison to the acarbose control (IC50 6.49 \xb1 0.11 and 12.01 \xb1 0.4 \u03bcg.mL-1, respectively). The hydroalcoholic extract of P. cincinnata (ExEt) presented high content of total tannins, flavonoids and flavonols. However, F.ACT had the highest concentration of flavonoids among the fractions studied. HPLC analysis of this fraction revealed the presence of the flavonoids isovitexin, orientin and isoorientin. F.ACT showed low to no cytotoxicity below 150 \u03bcg.mL-1. Regarding the post-prandial antihyperglycaemic activity of F.ACT, it was observed at 50 and 100 mg.kg-1.', u'/manuscript/201708.0060/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], []]
[u'Implications of Education and Prehabilitation on the Geriatric Surgical Patient', ['Theadore Hufford', 'Jonathan Rubin', 'Ghaith Al-Qudah', 'Michael Prendergast'], u'August 12 2017', u'INTRODUCTION\r\n\r\nRecently there has been a significant increase in age in the United States. It is necessary to better understand the physiological and surgical needs of these patients in order to optimize outcomes. The vast majority of procedures performed in adult patients are low-risk operations, such as laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Our aim is to investigate the outcomes, including length of stay, morbidity, mortality, re-admission and discharge disposition of the elderly population (>80) undergoing low-risk operations in our tertiary community hospital.\r\n\r\nMETHODS\r\n\r\nA retrospective chart review was done at a tertiary community hospital.  The time frame utilized was 2011-2015.  Patients were excluded only on the basis of their age (< 80) at the time of operation. \r\n\r\nRESULTS\r\n\r\nThere were a total of 30 patients who underwent laparoscopic cholecystectomy from 2011 to 2015.  21 patients (70%) were female and 9 (30%) were male. No patients were converted to an open procedure.  The average age was 86.4 years and average ASA classification prior to surgery was 2.88.  Higher ASA class, specifically those that were class III/IV were more likely to have an increased length of stay that was statistically significant.  Overall age greater than 80 was an independent risk factor for transfer to a higher level of care upon discharge (SNF, LTAC, etc.), a surrogate marker for physical decompensation following surgery.  \r\n\r\nCONCLUSIONS\r\n\r\nRoutine surgery, such as the laparoscopic cholecystectomy, effects the elderly population in a more substantial way, and early recognition coupled with increased education for physicians regarding geriatric patients can help to reduce length of stay, morbidity, and overall physical and mental deconditioning. ', u'/manuscript/201708.0045/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], []]
[u'Dynamics of Intervention Adoption, Implementation, and Maintenance Inside Organizations: the Case of an Obesity Prevention Initiative', ['Mohammad S. Jalali', 'Hazhir Rahmandad', 'Sally Lawrence Bullock', 'Seung Hee  Lee-Kwan', 'Joel  Gittelsohn', 'Alice Ammerman'], u'August 11 2017', u'Overall impact of public health prevention interventions relies not only on the average efficacy of an intervention, but also on the successful adoption, implementation, and maintenance (AIM) of that intervention. In this study, we aim to understand the dynamics that regulate AIM of organizational level intervention programs.', u'/manuscript/201708.0043/v1', [u'Nursing & Health Studies'], []]
[u'Comparison of Two Components of Propolis: Caffeic Acid (CA) and Caffeic Acid Phenethyl Ester (CAPE) to Induce Apoptosis and Cell Cycle Arrest of Breast Cancer Cells MDA-MB-231', ['Agata Kabaa-Dzik', 'Anna Rzepecka-Stojko', 'Robert Kubina', 'Zaneta Jastrzebska-Stojko', 'Rafa Stojko', 'Robert Dariusz Wojtyczka', 'Jerzy Stojko'], u'August 12 2017', u'1) Background: Studies indicate that caffeic acid (CA), caffeic acid phenethyl ester (CAPE) are compounds with potent chemopreventive effects. Breast cancer is a common cancer among women worldwide. The study shows comparison of caffeic acid and its ester activity in the cells of breast cancer line MDA-MB-231; 2) Methods: The cells of MDA-MB-231 were treated by CA and CAPE with doses from 10 to 100 \xb5M in time 24 h and 48 h. Cytotoxicity MTT test, apoptosis by Annexin V and cell cycle with Dead Cell Assay were performed; 3) Results: The cytotoxic activity was greater for CAPE comparing to CA, in both incubation time (same dosage). IC50 values for CAPE were 27.84 (24h) and 15.83 (48h) and >10000 (24h) and >1000 (48h) for CA. Polyphenols induced apoptosis, higher apoptotic effect observed for CAPE (dose dependent). CAPE induced cell cycle arrest in S phase (time and dose dependent). Dose dependent decline G0/G1 phase (48h) and elimination of phase G2/M (100 \xb5M of CAPE). For CA, only after 48 hours, small effect of cell cycle at phase S (however dose dependent), and slight decline of phase G0/G1 and G2/M only for highest doses (50 and 100 \xb5M); 4) Conclusions: Comparing CA and CAPE activity, on the MDA-MB-231, we clearly see better activity of CAPE, with the same dosage and experiment time.', u'/manuscript/201708.0049/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'An Exploration into the Origins and Pathogenesis of Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma, Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase (ALK)-positive', ['Suzanne Turner'], u'August 12 2017', u'T cell Non-Hodgkin lymphoma is a heterogeneous disease ranging from malignancies arising from thymic T cells halted in development, through to mature, circulating peripheral T cells. The latter cases are diagnostically problematic with many entering the category of peripheral T cell lymphoma, not otherwise specified (PTCL, NOS). Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma is one of the exceptions to this whereby aberrant expression of Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase and distinctive presence of cell surface CD30 places this entity in its own class. Besides expression of a well-studied oncogenic translocation, ALCL, ALK+ may also have a unique pathogenesis with a thymic origin like T lymphoblastic lymphoma but a peripheral presentation akin to PTCL. This review discusses evidence towards the potential origin of ALCL, ALK+ and mechanisms that may give rise to its unique phenotype.', u'/manuscript/201708.0048/v1', [u'Immunology'], []]
[u'30 Years of Research on Crown-of-thorns Starfish (1986-2016): Scientific Advances and Emerging Opportunities', ['Morgan S. Pratchett', 'Ciemon F. Caballes', 'Jennifer C. Wilmes', 'Samuel Matthews', 'Camille Mellin', 'Hugh P.A. Sweatman', 'Lauren E. Nadler', 'Jon Brodie', 'Cassandra A. Thompson', 'Jessica Hoey', 'Arthur R. Bos', 'Maria Byrne', 'Vanessa Messmer', 'Sofia Valero-Fortunato', 'Carla C.M. Chen', 'Alexander C.E. Buck', 'Russell C. Babcock', 'Sven Uthicke'], u'August 22 2017', u'Research on the coral-eating crown-of-thorns starfish (CoTS) has waxed and waned over the last few decades, mostly in accordance with the occurrence of population outbreaks at key locations, such as Australia\u2019s Great Barrier Reef. This review considers advances in our understanding of the biology and ecology of CoTS based on the latest resurgence of research interest, which culminated in this current special issue on the Biology, Ecology and Management of Crown-of-Thorns Starfish. More specifically, this review considers progress against 41 specific research questions posed in the seminal review by P. Moran 30 years ago, as well as exploring new directions for CoTS research. Despite the plethora of research on CoTS (>1,200 research articles), there are persistent knowledge gaps that constrain effective management of outbreaks. Although directly addressing some of these questions will be extremely difficult, there have been considerable advances in understanding the biology of CoTS, if not the proximal and ultimate cause(s) of outbreaks. Moving forward, researchers need to embrace new technologies and opportunities to advance understanding of CoTS biology and behaviour, with focus given to key questions that will improve effectiveness of management to reduce the frequency and likelihood of future outbreaks, if not preventing them altogether.', u'/manuscript/201708.0076/v1', [u'Ecology'], []]
[u'Reproductive Ability Enhancement of Housefly (Musca domestica Linn) (Diptera : Muscidae) through Hormesis by Application of Sublethal Doses of Imidacloprid and Permethrin', ['Sri Yusmalinar', 'Tjandra Anggraeni', 'Kustiati Khusnan', 'Indra Wibowo', 'Ramadhani Eka Putra', 'Intan Ahmad'], u'August 18 2017', u'Application of insecticide is the most common method to reduce the housefly population. However, in general, not all individual received lethal dose of insecticide. This condition could produce a favorable biological responses, such as increasing the reproductive ability, known as hormesis. This study was carried out to observe the effect of application of sublethal concentrations (LC50) or dosage (LD50) of imidacloprid and permethrin to reproductive ability of resistant strains of house fly. The responses were assessed for 10 generations to simulate the long term effect. The results showed that house flies received application of LD5 of permethrin increased their fecundity (17.05% more than application of LD15 and 56.39% more than control) and the fertility (26.73% more than application of LD15 and 63.62% more than control). On the other hand, application of LC5 of much imidacloprid also increased fecundity of housefly (10.46% more than application LC15 and 45.91% more than control) and the fertility (17.08% more than application LC15 and 49.17% more than control). It could be concluded that administration of sublethal doses of permethrin and much newer imidacloprid may induce reproductive hormesis in the housefly through increasing fecundity and fertility.', u'/manuscript/201708.0063/v1', [u'Entomology'], []]
[u'Soluble CD40 Iigand and Oxidative Response Are Reciprocally Stimulated during Shiga Toxin-Associated Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome', ['Maria J Abrey Recalde', 'Romina S. Alvarez', 'Fabiana Alberto', 'Maria p Mejias', 'Maria V. Ramos', 'Romina J. Fernandez Brando', 'Andrea C. Bruballa', 'Ramon A. Exeni', 'Laura Alconcher', 'Cristina A. Ibarra', 'Maria M. Amaral', 'Marina S. Palermo'], u'August 18 2017', u'Shiga toxin (Stx) produced by Escherichia coli is the main pathogenic factor of diarrhea-associated hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS), which is characterized by obstruction of renal microvasculature by platelet-fibrin thrombi. It is well known that the oxidative imbalance generated by Stx induces platelet activation, contributing to thrombus formation. Moreover, activated platelets release soluble CD40 ligand (sCD40L) which in turn contributes to oxidative imbalance, triggering the release of reactive oxidative species (ROS) on various cellular types. The aim of this work was to determine if the interaction between the oxidative response and platelet-derived sCD40L participates in the pathogenic mechanism during HUS. Activated human glomerular endothelial cells (HGEC) by Stx2 induced platelets to adhere to them. Although platelet adhesion did not contribute to endothelial damage, high levels of sCD40L were released to the medium. The release of sCD40L by activated platelets was inhibited by antioxidant treatment. Furthermore, we found increased levels of sCD40L in plasma from HUS patients, which were also able to trigger the respiratory burst in monocytes, in a sCD40L-dependent manner. Thus, we concluded that platelet-derived sCD40L and the oxidative response are reciprocally stimulated during Stx2-associated HUS. This process may contribute to the evolution of glomerular occlusion and the microangiopathic lesions.', u'/manuscript/201708.0064/v1', [u'Pediatrics'], []]
[u'Stretch-Shortening Cycle in Countermovement Jump: Exclusive Review of Force-Time Curve Variables in Eccentric and Concentric Phases', ['Mahdi Cheraghi', 'Javad Sarvestan', 'Masoud Sebyani', 'Elham Shirzad'], u'August 21 2017', u'The importance of vertical jump in sport fields and rehabilitation is widely recognized. Furthermore, Force-Time variables of vertical jump are factors affecting jumping height. Exclusive review of each of this variables, in eccentric and concentric phases, can lead to a specific focus on them during jumping exercises. So, the aims of his study were to a) reviewing the relationship between force-time curve variables of eccentric and concentric phases with jump height and b) description of this variables in Iran national youth volleyball players society. This is an observational study. 12 elite volleyball player (Male, Iran national youth volleyball players, 17\xb10.7 years) have participated in this study. Correlation between Force-Time variables - included peak force (PF), relative peak force (RPP), peak power (PP), average power (AP), relative peak power (RPP), and Modified Reactive Strength Index (MRSI) - in eccentric and concentric phases and ultimate jump height has been studied. Results showed that the average power (r=0.7) and relative peak force (r=0.75) of concentric phase and MRSI (r=0.83) have significant correlation with ultimate jump height (JH). Relative peak power and average power of concentric phase can massively effect Jump Height in sports like volleyball, which vertical jump is an integral part of them. Focus on both of these factors, which has been studied in this research, in training programs, can improve athlete jump performance significantly.', u'/manuscript/201708.0070/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'4SM Method Tested in the Gulf of California Suggests Field Data are Not Needed to Derive Satellite Bathymetry', ['Fabio Favoretto', 'Yann Morel', 'Andrew Waddington', 'Jorge Lopez-Calderon', 'Marco Cadena-Roa', 'Anidia Blanco-Jarvio'], u'August 18 2017', u'Satellite derived bathymetry methods over coastal areas were born to deliver basic and useful information like bathymetry. However, the process is not straightforward, the main limitation being the need of field data. The Self-calibrated Spectral Supervised Shallow-water Modeler (4SM) method was tested to obtain coastal bathymetry without the use of any field data. Using LANDSAT-8 multispectral images from 2013 to 2016, a bathymetric time series was produced. Groundtruthed depths and an alternative method, Stumpf\u2019s Band Ratio Algorithm, were used to verify the results. Retrieved (4SM) vs groundtruthed depths scored an average r2 (0.90), and a low error (RMSE = 1.47 m). Also 4SM showed, over the whole time series, the same average accuracy of the control method (40%). Advantages, limitations and operability under complex atmosphere and water column conditions, and high and low-albedo bottom processing capabilities of 4SM are discussed. In conclusion, the findings suggest that 4SM is equally accurate as the commonly used Stumpf\u2019s method, the only difference being the independence of 4SM to previous field data, and the potential to deliver bottom spectral characteristics for further modelling. 4SM represents a significative advance in coastal remote sensing potential to obtain bathymetry and optical properties of the marine bottom.', u'/manuscript/201708.0065/v1', [u'Biophysics'], []]
[u'A Unique TGFB1-Driven Genomic Program Links Astrocytosis, Low-Grade Inflammation and Partial Demyelination in Periplaques of Spinal Cords from Progressive Multiple Sclerosis Patients', ['Serge Nataf', 'Marc Barritault', 'Laurent Pays'], u'August 23 2017', u'We previously reported that in multiple sclerosis (MS) patients with a progressive form of the disease, spinal cord periplaques extend distance away from plaque borders and are characterized by the co-occurrence of partial demyelination, astrocytosis and low-grade inflammation. However, transcriptomic analyses comparing periplaques to adjacent normal-appearing white matter (NAWM) areas did not allow providing a comprehensive view of molecular events in astrocytes vs oligodendrocytes. Here, we re-assessed our transcriptomic data with the aim of identifying functionally-relevant co-expression networks that would reflect astrocyte vs oligodendrocyte molecular signatures in periplaques. We identified an astrocytosis-related gene module comprising GFAP, the hub gene CX43/GJA1 and a set of transcripts forming a TGFB/SMAD1/SMAD2 genomic signature. Partial demyelination was characterized by a co-expression network which, besides myelin genes, comprised a highly significant number of translation/elongation-related genes. Interestingly, the main oligodendrocyte-related hub we identified was NDRG1, a gene previously shown to be specifically silenced in the NAWM of MS patients. This result indicated that NDRG1 down-regulation could be an important event in the process of periplaque partial demyelination. \xa0To establish a putative link between NDRG1 down-regulation and a cytokine/chemokine signature, we then sought to identify cytokine/chemokine genes whose mRNA levels inversely correlated with those of NDRG1.\xa0 Following this approach we found 5 candidate immune-related genes whose up-regulation associated with NDRG1 down-regulation: TGFB1, PDGFC, IL-17D, IL-33, and IL-12A. From these results we propose that in the spinal cord of MS patients with progressive forms of the disease, TGFB1 may limit acute inflammation but concurrently induce astrocytosis and an alteration of oligodendrocytes terminal differentiation.', u'/manuscript/201708.0080/v1', [u'Pathology & Pathobiology'], []]
[u'Treatment, Palliative Care or Euthanasia? Comparing End of Life Issues in Human and Veterinary Medicine', ['Ruth E. Eyre-Pugh', 'James W. Yeates'], u'August 25 2017', u'Not a lot is known about either death or the dying process. Politicians and the medical profession in the UK tend to shy away from interfering with it by not allowing euthanasia as an end of life option for the patient. This is the first paper in a series of two, comparing the situation in human medicine and veterinary medicine, in which euthanasia is well practiced for relieving suffering at the end of life. This first part takes the form of a literature review including best practice around end of life care, its deficiencies and the need for assisted dying. Veterinary surgeons are well trained in the ethics of euthanasia and put it to good use in the best interest of their animal patients. In countries which have legalized physician assisted suicide for the terminally ill reporting indicates that it works well, without increases in involuntary euthanasia and most importantly without intimidation of the vulnerable. However, there is still an ever increasing tendency to overuse sedation and opioids at the end of life, which merits further investigation. With advances in medical science able to significantly prolong the dying process, patient autonomy demands a review of the law in the UK.', u'/manuscript/201708.0084/v1', [u'Veterinary Medicine'], []]
[u'Treatment, Palliative Care or Euthanasia? Comparing End of Life Issues in Veterinary and Human Medicine', ['Ruth E. Eyre-Pugh', 'James W. Yeates'], u'August 27 2017', u'This is the second of a series of two papers comparing the end of life issues in human and veterinary medicine. We outline the main differences between human and animal patients such as patient communication, finance and \u2018conflicts of interest\u2019 between animal, owner and veterinarian. We discuss striking similarities between human and veterinary issues such as assessing quality of life and the primary role of the attending veterinarian or doctor being the welfare and care of the patient. This paper takes the form of an ethical argument in favour of allowing euthanasia in human medicine, by providing insights into end of life issues for humans from an independent veterinary perspective. Veterinary surgeons are well trained in the ethics of euthanasia and put it to good use in the best interest of their animal patients. Doctors in the UK are limited and unwilling to put forward a case for the option of euthanasia for those patients who face a slow and agonizing death. With advances in medical science being able to significantly prolong the dying process, autonomy for the patient demands a review of the law regarding patient choice in the UK.', u'/manuscript/201708.0094/v1', [u'Veterinary Medicine'], []]
[u'The Extracellular Domain of Human High Affinity Copper Transporter (hNdCTR1), Synthesized by E. coli Cells, Chelates Silver and Copper Ions in Vivo', ['Tatiana P. Sankova', 'Iurii A. Orlov', 'Andrey N. Saveliev', 'Demid A. Kirilenko', 'Polina S. Babich', 'Pavel N. Brunkov', 'Ludmila V. Puchkova'], u'August 27 2017', u'There is much interest in effective copper chelators to correct copper dyshomeostasis in neurodegenerative and oncological diseases. In this study, a recombinant fusion protein for expression in E. coli cells was constructed from glutathione-S-transferase (GST) and the N-terminal domain (ectodomain) of human high affinity copper transporter CTR1 (hNdCTR1), which has three metal-bound motifs. Several biological properties of the GST-hNdCTR1 fusion protein were assessed. It was demonstrated that in cells, the protein was prone to oligomerization, formed inclusion bodies and displayed no toxicity. Treatment of E. coli cells with copper and silver ions reduced cell viability in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Cells expressing GST-hNdCTR1 protein demonstrated resistance to the metal treatments. These cells accumulated silver ions and formed nanoparticles that contained AgCl and Ag0. In this bacterial population, filamentous bacteria with length about 10 \u03bcm were often observed. The possibility for the fusion protein carrying extracellular metal binding motifs to integrate into the cell\u2019s copper metabolism and its chelating properties are discussed.', u'/manuscript/201708.0096/v1', [u'Biotechnology'], []]
[u'Omics in Aid of Host-pathogen Interaction Studies: A Bacterial Perspective', ['Ursula Fels', 'Kris Gevaert', 'Petra Van Damme'], u'August 27 2017', u'By providing useful tools to study host-pathogen interactions, next-generation omics has recently enabled the study of gene expression changes in both pathogen and infected host simultaneously. However, since great discriminative power is required to study pathogen and host simultaneously throughout the infection process, the depth of quantitative gene expression profiling has proven to be unsatisfactory when focusing on bacterial pathogens, thus preferentially requiring specific strategies or the development of novel methodologies based on complementary omics approaches. In this review, we focus on the difficulties encountered when making use of omics approaches to study bacterial pathogenesis. Besides, we review different omics strategies (i.e. transcriptomics, proteomics and secretomics) and their applications for studying interactions of pathogens with their host.', u'/manuscript/201708.0093/v1', [u'Microbiology'], []]
[u'A Novel Acidic Myotoxic Phospholipase A2 of Colombian B. asper Venom. Isolation and Functional Characterization', ['Silvia Posada Arias', 'Paola Rey-Suarez', 'Jaime Andres Pereanez Jimenez', 'Cristian Acosta', 'Mauricio Rojas Lopez', 'Lucilene Delazari Dos Santos', 'Rui Seabra Ferreira Junior', 'Vitelbina Nunez Rangel'], u'August 28 2017', u'Myotoxic phospholipases A2 are responsible for many clinical signs in envenomation by Bothropssnakes. A new myotoxic acidic PLA2 Asp 49 was isolated from Colombian Bothrops asper venom. It was isolated by high efficiency liquid chromatography and named BaCol PLA2. It had a molecular weight of 14180.69 Da and an isoelectric point of 4.4. The complete sequenceobtained by cDNA cloning, with access number in the gene bank MF319968; this sequenceevidenced a mature product of 124 amino acids with Asp in 49 position. In vivoassaysin mice demonstrated profuse oedemaand myotoxicity evidenced by increase of creatinakinasa in plasma and severe and diffuse damage to the muscular fibers, further vacuolization and hyalinization necrosis of the sarcoplasm showed by histopathology with hematoxylin and eosin staining of gastrocnemius muscle. In vitro studies showed cell membrane damage without phosphatidylserine exposure, an early apoptosis hallmark. Further BaCol PLA2 evidenced high indirect hemolytic activityand moderate anticoagulant action. The toxin showed homology with others acidic PLA2 isolated from Bothrops venoms, including one isolated from B. asper of Costa Rica. Unlike this, BaCol PLA2 was myotoxic.', u'/manuscript/201708.0097/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], []]
[u'The Apoptosis Induction of Oleandrin on Osteosarcoma Cells through Regulating Mitochondrial- and Death Receptor-Dependent Apoptotic Pathways in Vitro', ['Yunlong Ma', 'Bin Zhu', 'Lei Yong', 'Chunyu Song', 'Xiao Liu', 'Huilei Yu', 'Peng Wang', 'Zhongjun Liu', 'Xiaoguang Liu'], u'August 27 2017', u'This is the second of a series of two papers comparing the end of life issues in human and veterinary medicine. We outline the main differences between human and animal patients such as patient communication, finance and \u2018conflicts of interest\u2019 between animal, owner and veterinarian. We discuss striking similarities between human and veterinary issues such as assessing quality of life and the primary role of the attending veterinarian or doctor being the welfare and care of the patient. This paper takes the form of an ethical argument in favour of allowing euthanasia in human medicine, by providing insights into end of life issues for humans from an independent veterinary perspective. Veterinary surgeons are well trained in the ethics of euthanasia and put it to good use in the best interest of their animal patients. Doctors in the UK are limited and unwilling to put forward a case for the option of euthanasia for those patients who face a slow and agonizing death. With advances in medical science being able to significantly prolong the dying process, autonomy for the patient demands a review of the law regarding patient choice in the UK.', u'/manuscript/201608.0188/v1', [u'Veterinary Medicine'], []]
[u'Cancer Etiology: Variation in Cancer Risk among Tissues is Poorly Explained by the Number of Gene Mutations', ['Miguel Lopez-Lazaro'], u'August 30 2017', u'Recent evidence indicates that the risk of being diagnosed with cancer in a tissue is strongly correlated (0.80) with the number of stem cell divisions accumulated by the tissue. Since cell division can generate random mutations during DNA replication, this correlation has been used to propose that cancer is largely caused by the accumulation of unavoidable mutations in driver genes. However, no correlation between the number of gene mutations and cancer risk across tissues has been reported. Because many somatic mutations in cancers originate prior to tumor initiation and the number of cell divisions occurring during tumor growth is similar among tissues, here I use whole genome sequencing information from 22,086 cancer samples and incidence data from the largest cancer registry in each continent to study the relationship between the number of gene mutations and the risk of cancer across 33 tissue types. Results show a weak positive correlation (mean = 0.14) between these two parameters in each of the five cancer registries. The correlation became stronger (mean = 0.50) when gender-related cancers were excluded. Results also show that 1,003 samples from 29 cancer types have zero mutations in genes. These data suggest that cancer etiology can be better explained by the accumulation of stem cell divisions than by the accumulation of gene mutations. Possible mechanisms by which the accumulation of cell divisions in stem cells increases the risk of cancer are discussed.', u'/manuscript/201708.0103/v1', [u'Oncology & Oncogenics'], []]
[u'Chromosome pairing and recombination in male hybrids between two chromosome races of the common shrew (Sorex araneus L., Soricidae, Eulipotyphla)', ['Nadezhda M. Belonogova', 'Andrei V. Polyakov', 'Tatyana V. Karamysheva', 'Anna A. Torgasheva', 'Jeremy B. Searle', 'Pavel Borodin'], u'September 1 2017', u'The hybrid zone between chromosome races of the common shrew (Sorex araneus) provides an exceptional model to study the potential role of chromosome rearrangements in the initial steps of speciation. The Novosibirsk and Tomsk races differ by a series of Robertsonian fusions with monobrachial homology. They form a narrow hybrid zone and generate hybrids with both simple (chain of three chromosomes) and complex (chain of eight or nine) synaptic configurations. Using immunolocalisation of the meiotic proteins, we examined chromosome pairing and recombination in males from the hybrid zone. Homozygotes and simple heterozygotes for Robertsonian fusions showed a low frequency of synaptic aberrations (< 10%). The carriers of complex synaptic configurations showed multiple pairing abnormalities, which might lead to reduced fertility. Recombination frequency in the proximal regions of most chromosomes of all karyotypes was much lower than in the other regions. The strong suppression of recombination in the pericentromeric regions and co-segregation of race specific chromosomes involved in the long chains would be expected to lead to linkage disequilibrium between genes located there. Genic differentiation, together with the high frequency of pairing aberrations in male carriers of the long chains, might contribute to maintenance of the narrow hybrid zone.', u'/manuscript/201709.0007/v1', [u'Genetics'], []]
[u'Responses of Soil Microbial Communities to Robinia Pseudoacacia Plantations of Different Ages in A Loess Area', ['Bingxue Zhang', 'Rumeng Zhao', 'Boyuan Bi', 'Fengpeng Han'], u'September 5 2017', u'Phospholipid fatty acids (PLFAs) can be used as biomarkers for qualitative and quantitative analyses of soil microbial community diversity. In this study, we collected soil samples at 10-cm intervals to a depth of 1 m from Robinia pseudoacacia plantations of four different ages (10, 15, 25 and 40 years) in a loess area and analysed the soil microbial community structure by PLFA analysis. A total of 97 PLFAs were detected in soils of R. pseudoacacia plantations of different ages. The individual PLFA contents gradually decreased in the 0- to 40-cm soil layers, with little variation in the 40- to 100-cm soil layers. The individual PLFAs were similarly distributed in the soils of R. pseudoacacia plantations of different ages, and there was a clear variation with stand age and soil depth. The individual PLFA contents in the 0- to 20-cm soil layers were highest for the 25-year-old plantation, while those in the 20- to 40-cm soil layers were relatively high for the 25- and 40-year-old plantations; the 16:0 content was the highest among individual PLFAs. The total PLFA content and the PLFA contents of different microbial groups [bacteria, fungi, Gram-positive bacteria (G+), Gram-negative bacteria (G-) and actinomycetes] initially increased before decreasing in the soils of R. pseudoacacia plantations with increasing stand age, whereas these contents gradually decreased with increasing soil depth; the highest PLFA contents was found in the 25-year-old plantation. The total PLFA content and the contents of fungal, G- and actinomycete PLFAs in the soils of R. pseudoacacia plantations differed significantly among stands of different ages in the 0- to 10-cm, 10- to 20-cm and 30- to 40-cm soil layers, while no significant differences were found in the 20- to 30-cm soil layers; the G+ and bacterial PLFAs contents in each of the 0- to 40-cm soil layers were significantly different. The PLFA ratios between different microbial groups differed among the stands of different ages. The fungi/bacteria ratio showed a \u201cdecrease-increase-decrease\u201d trend with stand age, while the G+/G- ratio showed an \u201cincrease-decrease\u201d trend. The saturated/monounsaturated PLFA ratio initially decreased before plateauing, while the opposite trend was observed for the cyclopropyl/precursor ratio. The PLFA contents of different microbial groups were ranked as follows: bacteria > G- > G+ > actinomycetes > fungi. In the principle component analysis, 18:1\u03c99c, 10Me18:0, i17:0, a17:0, 18:1\u03c97c, 18:1\u03c95c and 18:0 made the greatest contribution to principal component 1, and a14:0, i14:0 3OH, i14:0, i14:1\u03c97c and 14:0 made the greatest contribution to principal component 2. In conclusion, soil nutrient status and other soil eco-environmental stress factors should be considered in 10- to 25-year-old (particularly ~15-year-old) plots for the management of R. pseudoacacia plantations to prevent forest soil degradation and improve forest stand quality, thereby achieving better soil and water conservation and environmental improvement in R. pseudoacacia plantations.', u'/manuscript/201709.0016/v1', [u'Forestry'], []]
[u'Zebrafish Xenograft: An Evolutionary Experiment in Tumour Biology', ['Rachael A. Wyatt', 'Nhu P. V. Trieu', 'Bryan D. Crawford'], u'September 6 2017', u'Though the cancer research community has used mouse xenografts for decades more than zebrafish xenografts, zebrafish have much to offer: they are cheap, easy to work with, and the embryonic model is relatively easy to use in high-throughput assays. Zebrafish can be imaged live, allowing us to observe cellular and molecular processes in vivo in real time. Opponents dismiss the zebrafish model due to the evolutionary distance between zebrafish and humans, as compared to mice, but proponents argue for the zebrafish xenograft\u2019s superiority to cell culture systems and its advantages in imaging. This review places the zebrafish xenograft in the context of current views on cancer and gives an overview of how several aspects of this evolutionary disease can be addressed in the zebrafish model. Zebrafish are missing homologs of some human proteins and (of particular interest) several members of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family of proteases, which are known for their importance in tumour biology. This review draws attention to the implicit evolutionary experiment taking place when the molecular ecology of the xenograft host is significantly different than that of the donor.', u'/manuscript/201709.0018/v1', [u'Anatomy & Morphology'], []]
[u'Roma Housing and Eating in 1775 and 2013: A Comparison', ['Michal Kozubik', 'Jitse P van Dijk', 'Barbora Odraskova'], u'September 7 2017', u'Objectives: We compared housing and the eating habits of Roma. Contemporary findings (2013) were compared with those from the first monothematic work on Roma (1775) depicting their housing and eating habits. Methods: Data come from a journal (1775) and from semi-structured interviews (2013) with more than 70 Roma women and men who live segregated in excluded settlements at the edges of villages or scattered among the majority. Data were collected in two villages and one district town in the Tatra region, where data from the 1775 measurements originate. We used classical sociological theory and new ethnography to interpret the obtained data. Results: The main findings showed differences between specific social classes then and now regarding housing as well as eating habits, related to both conditions among Roma in the Tatra. The national Roma foods g\xf3ja or marik\u013ea are traditional foods of Slovak ancestors living in poverty in the country. The houses of Roma do not greatly differ from those of the majority. Conclusions: We conclude that life strategies of the citizens of poor settlements now are similar to two centuries ago, typical for the culture of poverty in various countries of the world even after the centuries.', u'/manuscript/201709.0022/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Isolation and Studies on Bacterial Endophytes from Two Venezuelan Rice Cultivars', ['Felix Moronta-Barrios', 'Fabrizia Gionechetti', 'Alberto Pallavicini', 'Edgloris Marys', 'Vittorio Venturi'], u'September 8 2017', u'Rice is currently the most important food crop in the world and we are only just beginning to study the bacterial associated microbiome. It is of importance to perform screenings of the core rice microbiota and also to develop new plant-microbe models and simplified communities for increasing our understanding about the formation and function of its microbiome. In order to begin to address this aspect, we have performed the isolation of hundreds bacterial isolates obtained from endorhizosphere of two rice cultivars from Venezuela. The validation of plant-growth promoting bacterial activities in vitro has led us to select and characterize 15 isolates for in planta studies such as germination test, endophytism ability and plant growth promotion. Consequently, a set of 10 isolates was selected for the set-up of an endophytic consortium as a simplified model of the natural rice bacterial endomicrobiota. Upon inoculation, the colonization and abundance of each strain within the rice roots was tracked by a culture-independent technique in gnotobiotic conditions in a 30 days period. Four strains belonging to Pseudomonas, Agrobacterium and Delftia genera have shown a promising capacity for colonizing and coexistence in root tissues. On the other hand, a bacterial community taxonomic profiling of the rhizosphere and the endorhizosphere of both cultivars were obtained and are discussed. This study is part of a growing body of research on core crops microbiome and simplified microbiomes, which strengthens the formation process of the endophytic community leading to a better understanding of the rice microbiome.', u'/manuscript/201709.0031/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'\xb5-Conotoxins Modulating Sodium Currents in Pain Perception and Transmission', ['Elisabetta Tosti', 'Raffaele Boni', 'Alessandra Gallo'], u'September 8 2017', u'The Conus genus includes around 500 species of marine mollusks with a peculiar production of venomous peptides known as conotoxins (CTX). Each species is able to produce up to 200 different biological active peptides. Common structure of CTX is the low number of aminoacids stabilized by disulfide bridges and post-translational modifications that give rise to different isoforms. \xb5 and \xb5-O CTX are two isoforms that specifically target voltage-gated sodium channels. These, by inducing the entrance of sodium ions in the cell, modulate the neuronal excitability by depolarizing plasma membrane and propagating the action potential. Hyperxcitability and mutations of sodium channels are responsible for perception and transmission of inflammatory and neuropathic pain states. In this review, we describe the current knowledge of \xb5-CTX interacting with the different sodium channels subtypes, the mechanism of action and their potential therapeutic use as analgesic compounds in the clinical management of pain conditions.', u'/manuscript/201709.0026/v1', [u'Physiology'], []]
[u'Insights into the Diagnostic Potential of Extracellular Vesicles and their miRNA Signature from Liquid Biopsy as Early Biomarkers of Diabetic Micro/Macrovascular Complications', ['Valeria La Marca', 'Alessandra Fierabracci'], u'September 8 2017', u'Extracellular vesicles (EVs) represent a heterogeneous population of small vesicles, consisting of a phospholipidic bilayer surrounding a soluble interior cargo. Almost all cell types release EVs, thus they are naturally present in all body fluids. Among the several potential applications, EVs could be used as drug delivery vehicles in disease treatment, in immune therapy because of their immunomodulatory properties and in regenerative medicine. In addition to general markers, EVs are characterized by the presence of specific biomarkers (proteins, miRNAs) that allow the identification of their cell- or tissue-origin. For these features, they represent a potential powerful diagnostic tool to monitor state and progression of specific diseases. As regards, a large body of studies supports the idea that endothelial derived (EMPs) together with platelet-derived microparticles (PMPs) are deeply involved in the pathogenesis of diseases characterized by micro- and macrovascular damages, including diabetes. Existing literature suggests that the detection of circulating EMPs and PMPs and their specific miRNA profile may represent a very useful non-invasive signature to achieve informations about the onset of peculiar disease manifestations. In this Review, we discuss the possible utility of EVs in the early diagnosis of diabetes-associated microvascular complications, specifically related to kidney.', u'/manuscript/201709.0027/v1', [u'Biotechnology'], []]
[u'Gut Microbiota and Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: Insights on Mechanism and Therapy', ['Junli Ma', 'Qihang Zhou', 'Houkai Li'], u'September 11 2017', u'Gut microbiota play critical roles in development of obese-related metabolic diseases such as nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), type 2 diabetes, and insulin resistance, which highlighted the potential of gut microbiota-targeted therapies on these diseases. There are various ways that can manipulate gut microbiota including probiotics, prebiotics, synbiotics, antibiotics and some active components from herbal medicines. In this review, we first described the main roles of gut microbiota in mediating the development of NAFLD, and the advances in gut microbiota-targeted therapies in NAFLD in both the experimental and clinical studies, as well as the conclusions on the prospect of gut microbiota-targeted therapies in the future.', u'/manuscript/201709.0040/v1', [u'Endocrinology & Metabolomics'], []]
[u'Present status and re description of Iranibarbus or Luciobarbus barbuls Heckel 1849 a valid Cyprinidae species of Iran', ['Jalal Valiallahi', 'Brian W.  Coad'], u'September 12 2017', u'Western Iran Barbus species, are scientifically, environmentally and economically important. Some of them are the largest riverine freshwater species, that will grow in size and weight to 170 cm, and 120 kg respectively. These species although are vulnerable species but there is scarce information on taxonomy or present environmentally status of these exclusive species. Luciobarbus barbulus is one of the uniquely significant large species. In order to find new record on present status of large Barbus species a sampling program carried out in western Iran, during the resent year since 2013 to now. The validity of Luciobarbus barbulus a Cyprinid fish, which several authors have synonymies with different species is reaffirmed. This species overlaps in distinction with L. mystaceus, L scheich, and other similar species. In this study re description of L.barbulus is given. Our study reviled that Luciobarbus barbulus(Heckel 1846) is valid species and differ from L. mystaceus, L scheich, L. kersin, L. pectoralis,\xa0 L. rajanorum. L. barbulus is not a subspecies of Luciobarbus mystaceus (Heckel 1846). This species differs from L. mystaceus in having thick and very wide fleshy lip, inferior mouth and slightly shorter head. In Luciobarbus barbulus \xa0head is more inferior. The details of differences between these species are given. This species is one of stable growing fish without dimorphism, that retain it\u2019s shape from a fingerling species to a giant fish. The details on new record, new photo of this exquisite species and other precious large Luciobarbus species are given.', u'/manuscript/201709.0047/v1', [u'Anatomy & Morphology'], []]
[u'Nanotherapy for Early Dementia: Targeting Senile Endothelium', ["Joseph S. D'Arrigo"], u'September 13 2017', u"Due to the complexity of Alzheimer's disease, multiple cellular types need to be targeted simultaneously in order for a given therapy to demonstrate any major effectiveness. Ultrasound-sensitive coated microbubbles (in a targeted lipid nanoemulsion) are available. Versatile small molecule drug(s) targeting multiple pathways of Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis are known. By incorporating such drug(s) into the targeted LCM/ND lipid nanoemulsion type, one obtains a multitasking combination therapeutic for translational medicine. This multitasking therapeutic targets cell-surface scavenger receptors (mainly SR-BI), making possible for various Alzheimer's-related cell types to be simultaneously searched out for localized drug treatment in vivo. Besides targeting cell-surface SR-BI, the proposed LCM/ND-nanoemulsion combination therapeutic(s) include a characteristic lipid-coated microbubble [LCM] subpopulation (i.e., a stable LCM suspension); such film-stabilized microbubbles are well known to substantially reduce the acoustic power levels needed for accomplishing temporary noninvasive (transcranial) ultrasound treatment, or sonoporation, if additionally desired for the Alzheimer's patient.", u'/manuscript/201709.0050/v1', [u'Clinical Neurology'], []]
[u'Is Fundulus heteroclitus Intrusion Depleting Winter Marsh Pools of Native Fish Species?', ['Renata Goncalves', 'Joana Cruz', 'Radhouan Ben-Hamadou', 'Maria Alexandra Teodosio', 'Ana Dulce Correia', 'Luis Chicharo'], u'September 13 2017', u'This work updates the characterization of winter fish communities in salt marsh areas of Guadiana estuary (SE-Portugal) and discusses the potential risks of habitat dominance by a non-indigenous species (NIS). To this effect, six field campaigns were carried out during winter season targeting the collection of fish species. Individuals from seven different families (marine and estuarine) were collected although the community was dominated by two estuarine species \u2013 the native Pomatoschistus sp. (goby) and the NIS Fundulus heteroclitus (mummichog).\xa0 Goby controlled the majority of salt marsh habitats, except one specific, marsh pool, where extreme environmental conditions were registered, namely high temperature and salinity. Such conditions may have boosted the intrusion of mummichog in this area. This species is well adapted to a wide range of abiotic factors enabling them to colonize habitats where no predators inhabit. Impacts of mummichog intrusion in the Guadiana salt marsh area are still unpredictable since this is the first recorded in such high density. Nevertheless, in scenarios of increased anthropogenic pressure and, consequently, habitat degradation, there is a potential risk of mummichog spread to other habitats and therefore compete for space and food resources with native species.', u'/manuscript/201709.0051/v1', [u'Ecology'], []]
[u'A Comprehensive Profile of Mature MicroRNA in the Pig', ['Xiliang Wang', 'David K.C. Cooper', 'Zhiming Cai', 'Lisha Mou'], u'September 14 2017', u'The pig is an important source of meat production and provides a valuable model for certain human diseases. MicroRNA (miRNA), which is non-coding RNA and regulates gene expression at the posttranscriptional level, plays a critical role in various biological processes. Studies on identification and function of mature miRNAs in multiple pig tissues are increasing, yet the literature is limited. Therefore, we reviewed current research to determine the miRNAs expressed in specific pig tissues that are involved in carcass values (including muscle and adipocytes), reproduction (including pituitary, testis, and ovary), and development of some solid organs (e.g., brain, lung, kidney, and liver). We also discuss the possible regulating mechanisms of miRNA. Finally, as pig organs are suitable candidates for xenotransplantation, biomarkers of their miRNA in xenotransplantation were evaluated.', u'/manuscript/201709.0057/v1', [u'Animal Sciences & Zoology'], []]
[u'Versatility of 7-Substituted Coumarin Molecules as Antimycobacterial Agents, Neuronal Enzyme Inhibitors and Neuroprotective Agents', ['Erika Kapp', 'Hanri Visser', 'Samantha L. Sampson', 'Sarel F. Malan', 'Elizabeth M. Streicher', 'Germaine B. Foka', 'Digby F.  Warner', 'Sylvester L. Omoruyi', 'Adaze B. Enogieru', 'Okobi E. Ekpo', 'Frank T. Zindo', 'Jacques Joubert'], u'September 15 2017', u'An in vitro medium-throughput screen using M. tuberculosis H37Rv was employed to screen an in-house library of structurally diverse compounds for antimycobacterial activity. \xa0From this initial screen, eleven 7-substituted coumarin derivatives with confirmed monoamine oxidase-B and cholinesterase inhibitory activities, demonstrated growth inhibition of more than 50% at a 50 \xb5M concentration.\xa0 This prompted further exploration of all the 7-substituted coumarins in our library, nineteen in total, as potential antimycobacterial agents. Four derivatives showed promising antimycobacterial activity with MIC99 values of 8.31 \u2013 29.70 \xb5M and 44.15 \u2013 57.17 \xb5M on M. tuberculosis H37Rv in independent assays using Gaste-Fe and 7H9 + OADC media, respectively.\xa0 \xa0These compounds were found to bind to albumin which may explain the variations in MIC between the two assays. \xa0Preliminary antimycobacterial evaluation of moxifloxacin resistant M. tuberculosis show that these compounds are able to maintain their activity in fluoroquinolone resistant mycobacteria.\xa0 \xa0Analysis of structure activity relationships for antimycobacterial versus neuronal enzyme inhibitory activity indicate that structural modification on position 4 and/or 7 of the coumarin scaffold may be utilized to improve selectivity towards either inhibition of neuronal enzymes or antimycobacterial effect.\xa0 Cytotoxicity evaluations of the compounds indicate moderate cytotoxicity with slight selectivity towards mycobacteria.\xa0 Further neuroprotective assays on SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells indicate significant neuroprotection for selected compounds irrespective of their neuronal enzyme inhibitory properties.\xa0 These coumarin molecules are thus interesting lead compounds that may provide insight into the design of new antimicrobacterial and/or neuroprotective agents.', u'/manuscript/201709.0070/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], []]
[u'Bioremediation of Heavy Metals and Hydrocarbon Polluted Environments: A review', ['Omena B. Ojuederie', 'Olubukola O. Babalola'], u'September 15 2017', u'Environmental pollution from hazardous waste materials, heavy metals, and hydrocarbons has adversely affected the natural ecosystem to the detriment of man. These pollutants arise from anthropogenic sources as well as natural disasters such as hurricanes and volcanic eruptions. Toxic metals and hydrocarbons are non-biodegradable and could accumulate in agricultural soils and get into the food chain, thereby becoming a major threat to food security. Bioremediation is an ec0-friendly and efficient method of reclaiming environments contaminated with organic pollutants by making use of the inherent biological mechanisms of microorganism and plants to eradicate hazardous contaminants. Microbes and plants use different mechanisms to effectively remediate contaminated sites of environmental pollutants. Genetically engineered organisms play a positive role in reclaiming polluted environments using modern techniques such as site directed mutagenesis which improves the ability of microbial enzymes to effectively degrade organic pollutants at a faster rate and enhance the degradation process and the introduction of novel genes. However, strict adherence to biosafety regulations must be followed. This review discusses the toxic effects of heavy metals and hydrocarbon pollution, the mechanisms used by microbes and plants for environmental remediation as well as the prospects and limitations of genetic engineering as a tool for bioremediation.', u'/manuscript/201709.0071/v1', [u'Biotechnology'], []]
[u'Glyoxalases in Urological Malignancies', ['Cinzia Antognelli', 'Vincenzo Nicola Talesa'], u'September 15 2017', u'Urological cancers include a spectrum of malignancies affecting organs of the reproductive and/or urinary systems, such as prostate, kidney, bladder, and testis. Despite improved primary prevention, detection and treatment, urological cancers are still characterized by an increasing incidence and mortality worldwide and although advances have been made toward understanding the molecular basis of these diseases, a complete insight of the pathogenic mechanisms is still a research challenge for defining safer pharmacological therapies and prognostic factors, especially for the metastatic stage of these neoplasms for which no effective therapies exist. Glyoxalases are enzymes that catalyzes the glutathione-dependent metabolism of cytotoxic methylglyoxal (MG), thus protecting against cellular damage and apoptosis. They are generally overexpressed in numerous\xa0cancers as a survival strategy by providing a safeguard through enhancement of MG detoxification. Increasing evidence suggest that glyoxalases, especially Glo1, would act as oncogenes in urological malignancies and be central to their initiation, growth and progression. In this review, we highlight the critical role of glyoxalases as regulators of tumorigenesis in the prostate through modulation of various critical signaling pathways, and provide an overview of the current knowledge on glyoxalases in bladder, kidney and testis cancers. We also discuss the promise and challenges for Glo1 inhibitors as future anti-PCa therapeutics and the potential of glyoxalases as biomarkers for PCa diagnosis.', u'/manuscript/201709.0069/v1', [u'Biochemistry'], []]
[u'Dose-Dependent Effects of Oral Tyrosine Administration on Plasma Tyrosine Levels and Cognition in Aging', ['Ondine van de Rest', 'Mirjam Bloemendaal', 'Rianne de Heus', 'Esther Aarts'], u'September 18 2017', u'The effects of tyrosine on plasma response and cognition in aging are unknown. We assessed the dose-dependent response to tyrosine administration in older adults in both plasma tyrosine concentrations and working memory performance. In this double blind randomized cross-over trial 17 older adults (aged 60-75 years) received a single administration of 100, 150 or 200 mg/kg body weight of tyrosine. For comparison, 17 young adults (aged 18-35 years) received a dose of 150 mg/kg body weight of tyrosine. Tyrosine plasma concentrations were determined before and 90, 120, 150, 180, 210 and 240 minutes after tyrosine intake. Working memory was assessed using the N-back task at 90 minutes after tyrosine administration. Older adults showed a dose-dependent increase in plasma tyrosine concentrations (p<.001), and the plasma response was higher than for young adults with the same dose (p<.001). Load-dependent working memory performance decreased with higher doses of tyrosine (p=.048), especially in older adults with greater dose-dependent plasma tyrosine responses (p=.035). Our results show an age-related increase in plasma tyrosine response, which was associated with a dose-dependent decline in cognitive functioning in older adults.', u'/manuscript/201709.0082/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'Associations between Major Nutrients Patterns and Serum Levels of Inflammatory Markers and Cardiovascular Risk Factors in Obese Iranian Adults', ['Nasim Ghodoosi', 'Khadijeh Mirzaei', 'Zhila Maghbooli', 'Leila Khorrami-nezhad', 'Seyed Ali Keshavarz'], u'September 19 2017', u'Background: The aim of this study was to examine the association between major nutrients patterns and adipokines levels of healthy, obese, Iranian people. The authors are unaware of any such report in Iranian people with regard to this association. Methods: This cross-sectional study was conducted on a sample of 222 apparently healthy obese participants, aged 17\u201369. Dietary intake was assessed using a 3-day 24-h dietary recall. Principal component analysis was used to identify major nutrients patterns. Anthropometric measurements were measured with the standard protocols, and body composition using bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA). Nutrients patterns of the subjects were obtained using principal component analysis. Results: Four major nutrient patterns were extracted: (i) Antioxidants pattern, (ii) Mineral pattern, (iii) Essential fat patterns, (iv) Unhealthy fat pattern. Unhealthy fat pattern decreased Serum IL10 (p=0.05), and was associated with a higher fat mass (P=0.05). Antioxidants pattern significantly increased Serum IL-17 (P=0.03). Moreover, mineral pattern significantly decreased Serum Hs-CRP (P=0.05), TG (P=0.04) and increased Serum HDL (P=0.03). Serum TC (P=0.01) and LDL (P=0.05) decreased and HDL (P=0.05) and Serum vaspin (P=0.03) \\ increased significantly in the Essential fat pattern. Conclusion: The unhealthy fat pattern may contribute to higher risks of obesity and be related with pro-inflammatory status in obese people. Mineral pattern can reduce inflammatory responses in the obese population.', u'/manuscript/201709.0088/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'Praeruptorin A Inhibits Cervical Cancer HeLa Cell Growth and Invasion by Suppressing MMP-2 Expression and ERK1/2 Signaling', ['Min-Hua Wu', 'Chia-Liang Lin', 'Hui-Ling Chiou', 'Shun-Fa Yang', 'Yi-Hsien Hsieh', 'Chung-Jung Liu'], u'September 19 2017', u'Praeruptorin A(PA), a naturally existing pyranocumarin, is isolated from the dried root of Peucedanum praeruptorum Dunn. So far the anti-cancer effect and molecular mechanism behind Praeruptorin A action in human cervical cancer HeLa cells remain unknown. In the present study, we find that PA reduces cell proliferation and colony formation of human cervical cancer HeLa cells through inducing cell cycle arrest at G0/G1 phase. PA-upregulated p21 and p27 proteins are observed, accompanied with inhibition of cyclin D1 and S-phase kinase-associated protein 2(Skp2) proteins expression. PA could significantly inhibit migration and invasion of human HeLa cells. Meanwhile, PA significantly reduces invasive protein expression of matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2), and increases protein expression of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-2 (TIMP-2). PA is observed to possess the capacity in suppressing ERK1/2 activation. PD98059 (ERK specific inhibitor) significantly enhances PA-induced downregulation of MMP-2 expression, and upregulation of TIMP-2 expression. Moreover, we found that PA treatment notably inhibits 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate(TPA)-upregulated ERK1/2 activation, MMP-2 expression, cellular migration and invasion in human HeLa cells. Taken together, these findings are the first to demonstrate the anti-cancer activity of PA, which may act as a promising therapeutic agent for the treatment of human cervical cancer.', u'/manuscript/201709.0086/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], []]
[u'Moisture Content Measurement of Broadleaf Litters using Near-Infrared Spectroscopy Technique', ['Ghiseok Kim', 'Suk-Ju Hong', 'Ah-Yeong Lee', 'Ye-Eun Lee', 'Sangjun Im'], u'September 21 2017', u'Near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) was implemented to monitor the moisture content of broadleaf litters. Partial least-squares regression (PLSR) models, incorporating optimal wavelength selection techniques, have been proposed to better predict the litter moisture of forest floor. Three broadleaf litters were used to sample the reflection spectra corresponding the different degrees of litter moisture. Maximum normalization preprocessing technique was successfully applied to remove unwanted noise from the reflectance spectra of litters. Four variable selection methods were also employed to extract the optimal subset of measured spectra for establishing the best prediction model. The results showed that the PLSR model with the peak of beta coefficients method was the best predictor among all candidate models. The proposed NIRS procedure is thought to be a suitable technique for on-the-spot evaluation of litter moisture.', u'/manuscript/201709.0099/v1', [u'Forestry'], []]
[u'Involvement of Opioid System, TRPM8, and ASIC Receptors in Antinociceptive Effect of Arrabidaea Brachypoda (DC) Bureau', ['Vinicius Peixoto Rodrigues', 'Claudia Quintino da Rocha', 'Larissa Lucena Perico', 'Raquel Cassia dos Santos', 'Rie Ohara', 'Emerson Ferreira Queiroz', 'Jean-Luc Wolfender', 'Lucia Regina Machado da Rocha', 'Adair Roberto Soares Santos', 'Wagner Vilegas', 'Clelia Akiko Hiruma-Lima'], u'September 21 2017', u'Arrabidaea brachypoda (DC) Bureau is a medicinal plant found in Brazil. Known as \u201ccip\xf3-una" it is popularly used as a natural therapeutic agent against pain and inflammation. This study evaluated the chemical composition and antinociceptive activity of the dichloromethane fraction from the roots of A. brachypoda (DEAB), its mechanism of action and potential acute toxicity. The chemical composition was characterized by high-resolution mass spectrometry. The antinociceptive effect was evaluated in the formalin and hot plate tests after oral administration (10-100 mg/kg) in mice. We also investigated the involvement of TRPV1 (transient receptor potential vanilloid 1), TRPA1 (transient receptor potential ankyrin 1), TRPM8 (transient receptor potential melastatin 8), and ASIC (acid-sensing ion channel), as well as the opioidergic, glutamatergic, and supraspinal pathways. The fraction is composed only by dimeric flavonoids, exhibited no sign of acute toxicity in vivo or locomotor performance interference. Moreover, it could reduce the nociceptive response (30 mg/kg) in the early and late phase of the formalin test. DEAB activity appears to involve the opioid system, TRPM8 and ASIC receptors clearly showing that the DEAB alleviates acute pain in mice and suggest involvement of the TRPM8 and ASIC receptors, and the opioid system in acute pain relief.', u'/manuscript/201709.0101/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], []]
[u'Cut-off Values of Hematologic Parameters to Predict the Number of Alpha Genes Deleted in Subjects with Deletional Alpha Thalassemia', ['Diego Velasco-Rodriguez', 'Carlos Blas', 'Juan-Manuel Alonso-Dominguez', 'Gala Vega', 'Carlos Soto', 'Aranzazu Garcia-Raso', 'Pilar Llamas-Sillero'], u'September 21 2017', u'Most of \u03b1-thalassemia cases are caused by deletions of the structural \u03b1-globin genes. The degree of microcytosis and hypochromia has been correlated with the number of affected \u03b1-globin genes, suggesting a promising role of hematologic parameters as predictive diagnostic tools. However, specific cut-off points for these parameters to discriminate between the different subtypes of \u03b1-thalassemia remain to be clearly defined. Six hematologic parameters (total number of erythrocytes, hemoglobin concentration, mean corpuscular volume, mean corpuscular hemoglobin, mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration and red cell distribution width) were evaluated in 174 cases of deletional \u03b1-thalassemia (92 heterozygous \u03b1+ thalassemia, 39 homozygous \u03b1+ thalassemia, 34 heterozygous \u03b10 thalassemia and 9 cases of Hb H disease). A good correlation between the number of deleted alpha genes and MCV (r = -0.672, p<0.001), MCH (r = -0.788, p<0.001) and RDW (r = 0.633, p<0.001) was observed. The deletion of at least two alpha genes in adult individuals with microcytosis without iron deficiency and normal values of Hb A2 and Hb F should be discarded when MCH levels are lower than 23.15 pg. Furthermore, MCH <21.90 pg and/or MCV <70.80 fL are strongly suggestive of the presence of one \u03b10 allele. Finally, an accurate presumptive diagnosis of Hb H disease can be made if both RDW \u226520% and MCH <18.45 pg are seen.', u'/manuscript/201709.0100/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Live Florescent Staining Platform Drug-Screening and Mechanism-Analysis in Zebrafish for Bone Mineralization', ['Jung-Ren Chen', 'Yu-Heng Lai', 'Jhih-Jie Tsai', 'Chung-Der Hsiao'], u'September 21 2017', u'Currently, drug screening is primarily based on human cell culture for initial high-throughput screening, and subsequently, rodent model to confirm the biological effects. However, the mammalian system is known for time-consuming and highly-cost to be difficult to perform high-throughput drug screening, which exists a critical gap between in vitro cell-based models and the in vivo mammalian models. Therefore, the zebrafish could bridge this gap in preclinical toxicity screening along the drug development pipeline because of its efficiency. We aimed to develop an in vivo zebrafish platform for rapid drug screening. Zebrafish, due to its high genomic conservation with mammals and rapid development and differentiation, it has many advantages, such as short life span, large number of offspring and low cost, easy manipulation for generating transgenic species, to serve as animal model for disease-based research. In 96-well microplates, zebrafish embryos were incubated with small molecular compounds that affected bone mineralization. The level of osteogenic mineralization was evaluated by fluorescent dye staining and quantified by image analysis software. Quantitative real time-PCR (qRT-PCR) was performed to evaluate the biological pathways involved in bone metabolism at the molecular level. The system was validated by demonstrating that response to alendronate and Dorsomorphin in zebrafish. In our study, we screened for 24 compounds within the CYCU-1120~1152 chemical library and identified 3 compounds, pentamidine (CYCU-1140), BML-267 (CYCU-1147), and alendronate (CYCU-1152), increased embryonic mineralization; while 6 compounds, RWJ-60475 (CYCU-1126), levamisole HCL (CYCU-1128), tetramisole HCL (CYCU-1129), fenvalerate (CYCU-1132), NSC-663284 (CYCU-1138), and BML-267ester (CYCU-1148), were inhibitory to bone mineralization. We also found that alendronate enhanced the level of bone mineralization by inhibiting osteoclast-related genes. To sum up, our research showed that zebrafish may have potential to be a drug-screening and mechanism-analysis platform for bone mineralization.', u'/manuscript/201709.0102/v1', [u'Biotechnology'], []]
[u'Frozen Microemulsions for MAPLE Immobilization of Lipase', ['Valeria Califano', 'Francesco Bloisi', 'Giuseppe Perretta', 'Antonio Aronne', 'Giovanni Ausanio', 'Aniello Costantini', 'Luciano Vicari'], u'September 21 2017', u'MAPLE (matrix assisted pulsed laser evaporation) depositions of Candida Rugosa lipase were carried out from ice matrices whose composition is optimized in order to minimize conformational damage of the protein, which strongly influences its catalytic activity. To induce lid opening and to protect lipase during the MAPLE process, pentane and m-DOPA amino acid were added to the liquid matrix giving a target formed by a frozen water-lipase-pentane microemulsion. FTIR and AFM were used to investigate the structure of MAPLE deposited lipase films. The ability of MAPLE films to promote transesterification was determined by thin layer chromatography. It was shown that m-DOPA has influence on the aggregation but not on the unfolding of lipase induced by MAPLE, while the microemulsion formed by the addition of pentane to the target composition is effective in protecting lipase during the MAPLE process. MAPLE deposited lipases showed a modified specificity.', u'/manuscript/201709.0105/v1', [u'Biochemistry'], []]
[u'Molecular Cloning, Expression and Functional Analysis of Interferon Regulatory Factor 5 (IRF 5) in Malabar Grouper (Epinephelus Malabaricus)', ['Thirunavukkarasu Periyasamy', 'Ming-Wei Lu'], u'September 22 2017', u'Interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) is known to be involved in the innate immune response and pro-inflammatory cytokines. However, the roles of IRF5 in immune responses in Malabar grouper (Epinephelus malabaricus) have not been extensively explored. In this study, IRF5 gene was identified and characterized from M. grouper. The full-length IRF5 cDNA consisted of a 5\u2019 terminal untranslated region (5\u2019-UTR) of 289 bp and a 3\u2019-UTR of 542 bp, an open reading frame (ORF) of 1500 bp encoding a polypeptide of 499 amino acids with a predicted molecular mass of 56.28 kDa and isoelectric point (pI) of 5.2. The putative MgIRF5 protein consists of four important conserved domains: a helix DNA-binding domain (DBD) at the N-terminus, a middle region, an IRF association domain (IAD) and a virus activated domain (VAD) at the C-terminus. Sequence alignment and phylogenetic analysis showed that highest sequence similarity of IRF5 was observed between the IRF5 genes from Oplegnathus fasciatus and Miichthys miiuy. The mRNA transcripts of IRF5 were detected in a wide range of tissues types from healthy M. grouper with highest expression in muscle, liver and skin. After treatment with poly (I: C), it was significantly up-regulated in spleen and liver tissues. When infected with NNV, the expression level of MgIRF5 was up-regulated in spleen and head kidney and their transcriptional responses to IRF5 increased in the grouper kidney cells. This approach suggests that MgIRF5 is important in the underlying mechanism of the innate immune responses against antiviral response.', u'/manuscript/201709.0106/v1', [u'Immunology'], []]
[u'Formulation and Evaluation of Minoxidil Gel for Alopecia areata', ['Pawan Kumar', 'Shailendra Kumar Singh', 'Deepak Kumar Jindal', 'Vandana Handa'], u'September 25 2017', u'Alopecia areata is a common, chronic inflammatory disease, characterized by patchy hair loss on the scalp, affecting about 2.1% of world population. Minoxidilhas been used for treatment of alopecia as topical lotion. However, this dosage form has been associated with many drawbacks like systemic side effects and low contact time to skin. Therefore, in the present work, minoxidil gel was prepared using a novel copolymer, Sepineo P 600 to overcome these drawbacks. In the present work, minoxidil gel was cahararecterised for pH, drug content, viscosity, spreadability, skin adhesivity, occlusivity, in vitro drug release, ex vivo skin permeation, stability and finally for skin corrosivity. The drug content of the finalized gel was found to be 99.80\xb10.82%. The formulation showed good spreadability, occlusivity, adhesiveness and viscosity. In vitro release studies showed that the drug release from prepared gel followed matrix release pattern as compared to lotion. Mathematical modeling of the drug release data suggested that it followed Higuchi model. The formulated minoxidil gel was found to be non-corrosive and stable when subjected to accelerated as well as real time stability studies. Overall, it the minoxidil gel formulation was suitable for skin application and can be an effective dosage form for the treatment of Alopecia areata.', u'/manuscript/201709.0123/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], []]
[u'Clinical and Chromosomal Investigations in Intellectually Disabled Children', ['Yashvant Khimsuriya', 'Mansi Desai', 'Nikhil Kharod', 'Jenabhai Chauhan'], u'September 25 2017', u'Background: The etiology of intellectual disability (ID) can be genetics or environmental including neurological disorders, gastrointestinal disorders and behavioral/psychiatric problems. Therefore, current study was aimed to diagnose possible health disparities by collective results of clinical manifestations, urinary biochemical and chromosomal analysis. Materials and methods: The clinical manifestations were studied for all 34 ID affected children from Gujarat. The results obtained from biochemical and chromosomal investigations were recorded and values were calculated and compared with all clinical data sets to point out significant findings. Results: Urine analysis revealed the presence of abnormal concentration of glucose, ketones, nitrites, bilirubin and urobilinogen in different groups of children with ID. The results from specific gravity test revealed hydration and dehydration status of individuals. Giemsa banding (G-banding) analysis confirmed the suspected Down syndrome (trisomy 21) in 5 children and no other chromosomal anomalies were detected from remaining samples. Conclusion: Microcephaly, macrocephaly, seizure, speech abnormality, short stature, oral cavity defect and facial dysmorphia were more frequently observed in Down syndrome (DS) children as compared to unclassified intellectually disabled (ID). Comparatively more number of DS children showed urinary glucose, ketone and nitrite excretion than ID. Bilirubin, blood and urobilinogen were more frequently excreted in ID children. ', u'/manuscript/201709.0121/v1', [u'Genetics'], []]
[u'Lp16-PSP, A Member of YjgF/YER057c/UK114 Protein Family Induces Apoptosis and p21WAF1/CIP1 Mediated G1 Cell Cycle Arrest in Human Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia (APL) HL-60 Cells', ['Thomson Patrick Joseph', 'Warren Chanda', 'Abdullah Faqeer Mohammad', 'Sadia Kanwal', 'Samana Batool', 'MeiShan Zhang', 'MinTao Zhong', 'Min Huang'], u'September 25 2017', u'Lp16-PSP from Lentinula edodes strain C91-3 has been reported previously in our laboratory to have selective cytotoxic activity against a panel of human cell lines. Herein, we have used several parameters in order to characterize the Lp16-PSP-induced cell death using HL-60 as model cancer. The results of phase contrast microscopy, nuclear examination, DNA fragmentation detection and flow cytometry revealed that high doses of Lp16-PSP resulted in the induction of apoptosis in HL-60 cells. The colorimetric assay showed the activation of caspase-8, -9 and -3 cascade highlighting the involvement of Fas/FasL-related pathway. Whereas, western blot revealed the cleavage of caspase-3, increased expression of Bax, the release of cytochrome c and decreased expression of Bcl-2 in a dose-dependent manner, suggesting the intrinsic pathway might be involved in Lp16-PSP-induced apoptosis either. Low doses of Lp16-PSP resulted in the anchorage-independent growth inhibition, induction of G1 phase arrest accompanied by the increased expression of p21WAF1/CIP1 along with the decreased expression of cyclin D, E, and cdk6. Our findings suggest that induction of apoptosis and p21WAF1/CIP1 mediated G1 arrest might be one of the mechanisms of the action of Lp16-PSP, however, further investigations on multiple leukemia cell lines and in vivo models are of ultimate need.', u'/manuscript/201709.0119/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], []]
[u'Present Status and Re-Description of Luciobarbus barbulus Heckel 1849 a Cyprinidae Species of IRAN', ['Jalal Valiallahi', 'Brian W.  Coad '], u'September 27 2017', u'Western Iran barb species are scientifically, environmentally, and economically important. Some of them are the largest riverine freshwater species, which will grow in size and weight to 170 cm, and 120 kg respectively. Although these species are vulnerable, there is little information on taxonomy or environmental status of the species Luciobarbus barbulus is one of the important large species. In order to find the new record on the present status of large barb species sampling program carried out in western Iran, during the resent year since 2013 to now. This species overlaps in distinction with L. mystaceus, L scheich, and other similar species. In this study re-description of L.barbulus is given. This species differs from L. mystaceus in having thick and very wide fleshy lip, inferior mouth and slightly shorter head. In Luciobarbus barbulus head is more inferior. The details of differences between these species are given. This species is one of stable growing fish without dimorphism, retain its shape from a fingerling species to a giant fish.', u'/manuscript/201709.0135/v1', [u'Anatomy & Morphology'], []]
[u'Role of LFA-1 and ICAM-1 in Cancer', ['Manuel Reina', 'Enric Espel'], u'September 28 2017', u'The lymphocyte function\u2013associated antigen-1 (LFA-1) (also CD11a/CD18 and alphaLbeta2), is just one of many integrins in the human body, but its significance derives from its exclusive presence in leukocytes. In this review, we summarize the studies relating LFA-1 and its major ligand ICAM-1 (CD54) with cancer, through the function of lymphocytes and myeloid cells on tumor cells. We consider how LFA-1 mediates the interaction of leukocytes with tumors and the role of ICAM-1 in tumor dynamics, which can be independent of its interaction with LFA-1. A more detailed examination of LFA\u2019s role within B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia is made. Finally, we discuss the role of LFA-1-harboring exosomes in tumor growth and metastasis.', u'/manuscript/201709.0146/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'A Marine Fibrinolytic Compound FGFC1 Stimulating Enzymatic Kinetic Parameters of a Reciprocal Activation System Based on a Single Chain Urokinase-Type Plasminogen Activator and Plasminogen', ['Guo Ruihua', 'Duan Dong', 'Shaotong Hong', 'Yu Zhou', 'Fang  Wang ', 'Shujun Wang', 'Wenhui Wu', 'Bin Bao'], u'September 28 2017', u'A marine fibrinolytic compound FGFC1 enhancing fibrinolysis was obtained involving in enzymatic kinetic parameters of reciprocal activation system with single chain urokinase type plasminogen activator and plasminogen. FGFC1, a kind of bisindole alkaloid from a metabolite of rare marine fungi Starchbotrys longispora FG216, modulated enzymatic kinetic parameters including fibrinolytic reaction rate and fibrin degradation characteristics. The enzymatic kinetics of fibrinolysis was described based on enzymatic reaction of chromogenic-substrate associated with p-nitroaniline (p-NA). While single chain urokinase-type plasminogen activator (pro-uPA) actived plasminogen, Kcat and kcat/km increased significantly with increase of FGFC1 concentration. Moreover,\xa0Kcat and\xa0kcat/km exhibited 26.5-fold and 22.8-fold enhanced activity at the concentration of 40 \u03bcg\u2022mL\u22121 of FGFC1, respectively. The results suggested that FGFC1 improved significantly the maximum catalytic efficiency and the total catalytic activity of fibrinolysis base on the reciprocal activation of pro-uPA and plasminogen. Km increased with increasing FGFC1 concentration, which indicated that FGFC1 decreased slightly the affinity activity of pro-uPA and plasminogen versus enzyme substrate. The marine bisindole alkaloid FGFC1 enhanced fibrinolysis which was taken on enzymatic kinetic characteristics.', u'/manuscript/201709.0143/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'How Do the First Days Count? A Case Study of Qatar Experience in Emergency Risk Communication during the MERS-CoV Outbreak', ['Mohamed Nour', 'Elmoubasher A.B.A.  Farag', 'Hamad E.  Al-Romaihi', 'Mohamed Al-Thani', 'Salih Al-Almarri', 'Mohd Alhajri', 'Elena Savoia'], u'September 29 2017', u'This case study is the first to be developed in the Middle East region to describe the timeline of the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) epidemic events in Qatar along with the features of the implemented Emergency Risk Communication (ERC) activities. It sought to describe how the performed ERC strategy particularly during the first days (then over the course of the following phases) of the outbreak might have contributed to the authorities\u2019 credibility, public trust, and outbreak control measures despite the overwhelming uncertainty. All of the relevant news stories during the period 24 Sep 2012 to 17 Mar 2014 were retrieved from a local daily, then were analyzed and interpreted before they were compiled and matched with the issued press releases, records of response activities and the public reactions along the course of the epidemic timeline. Despite the prevailing uncertainty, the health authorities\u2019 early preparedness to the epidemic and its commitment to a proactive and open ERC strategy since the first days of the outbreak favored the authorities\u2019 credibility and allowed for the quick initiation of the national response efforts during the course of the outbreak. However, there was some pitfalls as the print media reported some conflicting messages and paternalist approach during the early phases of the epidemic. Reliance solely on the print media is an acknowledged limitation to this study. Yet, it might be useful for emergency planners regarding what communication challenges to expect during the first days of a novel virus or similar threats.', u'/manuscript/201709.0148/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Protective Effects of Delphinidin against Proton Beam Induced Damage in Human Colon-Derived CCD-18Co Cells', ['Hyun Mi Kim', 'Seong Hee Kang', 'Suk Hee Kim', 'Bo Sun Kang'], u'September 29 2017', u'Unavoidable exposure to radiosensitive normal tissues around cancerous tumor during the radiotherapy can cause side effects such as self-limited acute toxicities, mild chronic symptoms, or severe organ dysfunction. Nevertheless, clinical use of currently available radiation protective agents is limited because of their generic cytotoxicity. A study on radiation protective effect of delphinidin was conducted with proton-beam-exposed human colon cells (CCD-18Co). The measurement in changes of survival fractions of CCD-18Co with/without delphinidin administration at different radiation doses were measured by 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5 diphenyl tetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay. The changes in expression of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and in activities of antioxidant enzymes were measured by colorimetric assays using pertinent assay kits. The measurement of pro-apoptosis/pro-survival protein expressions using Western blot assay and the measurement of DNA damage using comet assay were also fulfilled to evaluate the molecular level of radiation damages in CCD-18Co cells. The experimental results revealed that the pre-administration of delphinidin regulated antioxidant enzymes, reduced ROS, decreased DNA damage, regulated pro-apoptosis/pro-survival proteins, and eventually reduced apoptosis of CCD-18Co cells. In conclusion, it is claimed that delphinidin is nontoxic natural radiation protective compound, and thus delphinidin can be used to protect normal colon tissues during the proton beam therapy.', u'/manuscript/201709.0156/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Early Diagnosis of Breast Cancer \u2013 In Respect to Expectations of Participants in Screening Programs and to Contemporary Research in Imaging Methods', ['Heino Hille'], u'September 29 2017', u'Abstract On the background of new research results in screening of breast cancer, together with the expectation of the participants in a screening for breast cancer, the conventional mammography requires supplementation by means of tomosynthesis or additive ultrasound. Alternatively, ultrasound now seems to be an independent method of early detection of breast cancer because of its superior sensitivity, especially in the case of aggressive mammary carcinoma types. The MRI remains at present still a preferred method in high-risk cases and as an additive examination in case of insufficient presentation of the glandular tissue by conventional methods. MRI is also preoperatively valuable for more accurately measuring the extent of multifocal carcinomas.', u'/manuscript/201709.0159/v1', [u'Oncology & Oncogenics'], []]
[u'A Molecular Interpretation on the Different Penetration Enhancement Effect of Borneol and Menthol towards 5-FU', ['Ran Wang', 'Zhimin Wu', 'Shufang Yang', 'Shujuan Guo', 'Xingxing Dai', 'Yanjiang Qiao', 'Xinyuan Shi'], u'September 29 2017', u'Borneol and menthol were two terpenes wildly used as penetrate enhancer in transdermal drug delivery. To explore their penetration enhancement effect towards hydrophilic drug, 5-FU was selected as model drug. A method combined vitro permeation studies and coarse grain molecular dynamics was used to investigate their penetration enhancement effect towards 5-FU. As a result, although both borneol and menthol showed a penetration enhancement effect towards 5-FU, they differed a lot in the penetration enhancement mechanism, which was also thought to account for their different penetration enhancement effect. As for menthol, SC bilayer disrupting effect seemed to be its main mechanism. While for borneol, its mechanism seemed to be more complicated. Except for disrupting the SC bilayer, it could also increase the permeation of 5-FU by enhancing the diffusion rate of 5-FU or inducing the formation of transient pore. All of this\xa0\xa0 enable us a molecular understanding of borneol and menthol\u2019s penetration enhancement effect towards hydrophilic drug, which might provide some guidance in the latter research and application.', u'/manuscript/201709.0154/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], []]
[u'Omega-3 Long Chain Polyunsaturated Fatty Acids as Sensitizing Agents and Multidrug Resistance Revertants in Cancer Therapy', ['Paola Antonia Corsetto', 'Irma Colombo', 'Joanna Kopecka', 'Angela Maria Rizzo', 'Chiara Riganti'], u'September 29 2017', u'The efficacy of chemotherapy depends on sensitivity and intrinsic or acquired drug resistance of cancer cells. The n-3 long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-3 LCPUFAs) are considered chemosensitizing agents and revertants of multidrug resistance by pleiotropic mechanisms. The specific mechanisms are not fully understood, but nowadays, it is widely accepted that there are a complex network of mechanisms, including alteration in gene expression, modulation of cellular proliferation and differentiation, induction of apoptosis, generation of reactive oxygen species and lipid peroxidation. A crucial mechanism in the control of cell drug uptake and efflux is related to n-3 LCPUFA influence on membrane lipid composition. The incorporation of docosahexaenoic acid in the lipid rafts produces significant changes in their physical-chemical properties affecting content and functions of transmembrane proteins, such as growth factors, receptors and ATP-binding cassette transporters. Of note, n-3 LCPUFAs often impact on the lipid compositions more in chemoresistant cells than in chemosensitive cells, suggesting their adjuvant role in cancer treatment.', u'/manuscript/201709.0162/v1', [u'Biochemistry'], []]
[u'An Examination of Diameter Density Prediction with k-NN and Lidar', ['Jacob Strunk', 'Peter Gould', 'Petteri Packalen', 'Krishna Poudel', 'Hans-Erik Andersen', 'Hailemariam Temesgen'], u'September 30 2017', u'While lidar-based forest inventory methods have been widely demonstrated, prediction of tree diameters with lidar is not well understood. The performance metrics typically used in studies for prediction of diameters can be difficult to interpret and may not support comparative inferences between sampling designs or study areas. We evaluate a variety of lidar and k nearest neighbor (k-NN) strategies for prediction of tree diameter distributions using two indices which are easier to interpret and compare. The indices are based on the coefficient of determination (R2), and root mean square deviation (RMSD). These indices facilitate comparisons with alternative (non-lidar) inventory strategies, and with other project areas. We evaluate k nearest neighbors (k-NN) dbh density (relative frequency by dbh class) prediction strategies with lidar for 190 training plots distribute across the 800 km2 Savannah River Site in South Carolina, USA. We evaluate the performance of k-NN with respect to distance metrics, number of neighbors, predictor sets, and response sets. Amongst the examined strategies we found Mahalanobis distance with k = 3 neighbors performed best according to a number of criteria.', u'/manuscript/201709.0168/v1', [u'Forestry'], []]
[u'Transcriptome\u2002Analysis Identities Key Candidate Genes Mediating Purple Ovary Coloration in Asiatic Hybrid Lilies', ['Leifeng Xu', 'Panpan Yang', 'Suxia Yuan', 'Yayan Feng', 'Hua Xu', 'Yuwei Cao', 'Jun Ming'], u'September 29 2017', u'Unavoidable exposure to radiosensitive normal tissues around cancerous tumor during the radiotherapy can cause side effects such as self-limited acute toxicities, mild chronic symptoms, or severe organ dysfunction. Nevertheless, clinical use of currently available radiation protective agents is limited because of their generic cytotoxicity. A study on radiation protective effect of delphinidin was conducted with proton-beam-exposed human colon cells (CCD-18Co). The measurement in changes of survival fractions of CCD-18Co with/without delphinidin administration at different radiation doses were measured by 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5 diphenyl tetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay. The changes in expression of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and in activities of antioxidant enzymes were measured by colorimetric assays using pertinent assay kits. The measurement of pro-apoptosis/pro-survival protein expressions using Western blot assay and the measurement of DNA damage using comet assay were also fulfilled to evaluate the molecular level of radiation damages in CCD-18Co cells. The experimental results revealed that the pre-administration of delphinidin regulated antioxidant enzymes, reduced ROS, decreased DNA damage, regulated pro-apoptosis/pro-survival proteins, and eventually reduced apoptosis of CCD-18Co cells. In conclusion, it is claimed that delphinidin is nontoxic natural radiation protective compound, and thus delphinidin can be used to protect normal colon tissues during the proton beam therapy.', u'/manuscript/201609.0009/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u"Alzheimer's Disease, Brain Injury, and C.N.S. Nanotherapy in Humans: Sonoporation Augmenting Drug Targeting", ["Joseph S. D'Arrigo"], u'September 30 2017', u"Owing to the complexity of neurodegenerative diseases, multiple cellular types need to be targeted simultaneously in order for a given therapy to demonstrate any major effectiveness. Ultrasound-sensitive coated microbubbles (in a targeted nanoemulsion) are available. Versatile small-molecule drug(s) targeting multiple pathways of Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis are known. By incorporating such drug(s) into the targeted LCM/ND lipid nanoemulsion type, one obtains a multitasking combination therapeutic for translational medicine. This multitasking therapeutic targets cell-surface scavenger receptors (mainly SR-BI), making possible for various Alzheimer's-related cell types to be simultaneously searched out for localized drug treatment in vivo. Besides targeting cell-surface SR-BI, the proposed LCM/ND-nanoemulsion combination therapeutic(s) include a characteristic lipid-coated microbubble [LCM] subpopulation (i.e., a stable LCM suspension); such LCM substantially reduce the acoustic power levels needed for accomplishing temporary noninvasive (transcranial) ultrasound treatment, or sonoporation, if additionally desired for the Alzheimer's patient.", u'/manuscript/201709.0166/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], []]
[u'Coffee Consumption and the Risk of Obesity in Korean Women', ['Jeonghee Lee', 'Hye Young Kim', 'Jeongseon Kim'], u'September 30 2017', u'The objective of this study was to investigate the relationship between coffee consumption and obesity in Korean women. We included 5,995 women who participated in a health screening examination at the Korean National Cancer Center between 2007 and 2016. Daily coffee consumption was evaluated using the food frequency questionnaire. Obesity was assessed by body mass index (BMI), and abdominal obesity was assessed by waist circumference (WC). A multiple logistic regression model was used to calculate the odds ratio (OR) of obesity according to coffee consumption. After multivariate adjustment, high coffee consumption was positively associated with obesity measured by BMI (\u2265 3 cups vs. no drinks, OR = 2.52; 95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.91-3.34; P for the trend < 0.001) and abdominal obesity measured by WC (\u2265 3 cups vs. no drinks, OR = 2.11; 95% CI = 1.59-2.79; P for the trend < 0.001). The positive association between daily coffee consumption and obesity prevalence was not altered by menopause. The amount of coffee consumed per day by Korean women was positively correlated with the prevalence of obesity, but the mechanism underlying this phenomenon remains to be elucidated.', u'/manuscript/201709.0165/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'From Genotype to Phenotype: A Clinical Perspective for Hospital-Acquired Pneumonia', ['Etienne Ruppe', 'Abdessalam Cherkaoui', 'Vladimir Lazarevic', 'Stephane Emonet', 'Jacques Schrenzel'], u'September 30 2017', u'Clinical metagenomics (CMg), referred to as the application of next-generation sequencing (NGS) to clinical samples, is a promising tool for the diagnosis of hospital-acquired pneumonia (HAP). Indeed, CMg allows identifying pathogens and antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs), thereby providing the information required for the optimization of the antibiotic regimen. Hence, provided that CMg would be faster than conventional culture, the probabilistic regimen used in HAP could be tailored faster, which should lead to an expected decrease of mortality and morbidity. While the inference of the antibiotic susceptibility testing from metagenomic or even genomic data is challenging, a limited number of antibiotics are used in the probabilistic regimen of HAP (namely beta-lactams, aminoglycosides, fluoroquinolones, glycopeptides and oxazolidinones). Accordingly in the perspective of applying CMg to the early diagnostic of HAP, we aimed at reviewing the performances of whole genomic sequencing (WGS) of the main HAP-causing bacteria (Enterobacteriaceae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Acinetobacter baumannii, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia and Staphylococcus aureus) for the prediction of susceptibility to the antibiotic families advocated in the probabilistic regimen of HAP.', u'/manuscript/201709.0163/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Spore Dispersal Patterns of Fusarium Circinatum on an Infected Monterey Pine Forest in North-Western Spain', ['Milon  Dvorak', 'Patrik  Janos', 'Leticia  Botella', 'Gabriela  Rotkova', 'Rafael  Zas'], u'October 2 2017', u'The airborne inoculum of Fusarium circinatum, the fungal pathogen causing Pine Pitch Canker (PPC), is one of the main means of spread of the disease in forest stands and forest nurseries. Since this world-wide known pathogen was introduced in Europe, its biology in this newly infected area still remains scarcely known. To shed more light on this topic, we set an experiment on a naturally PPC infected forest of Monterey pine in Galicia (NW Spain) with the following two goals: (i) to describe the seasonal spore dispersal pattern during one year of regular sampling and (ii) to assess the spatial spore dispersal pattern around the infested plot. Portable rotating arm spore traps were used and complemented with meteorological measurements. The abundance of F. circinatum spores in the samples was evaluated by quantitative PCR (qPCR) with hydrolysis probe. The results showed almost permanent occurrence of the air inoculum throughout the whole year, being detected in 27 of the 30 samplings. No clear temporal trends were observed, but higher air inoculum was favoured by previous lower air temperatures and lower leaf wetness. Conversely, neither rainfall nor air humidity seemed to have any significant importance. The spatial spread of the inoculum was noted to be successful up to a distance of 1000 m in the wind direction, even with winds of just 5 m s-1. Our study shows that rotating arm spore traps combined with qPCR may be an efficient tool for F. circinatum detection.', u'/manuscript/201710.0011/v1', [u'Forestry'], []]
[u'Fatty Acids, Antioxidants and Physical Activity in Brain Aging', ['Hercules Rezende Freitas', 'Gustavo da Costa Ferreira', 'Isis Hara Trevenzoli', 'Karen de Jesus Oliveira', 'Ricardo Augusto de Melo Reis'], u'October 2 2017', u"Polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) and antioxidants are important mediators in the central nervous system (CNS). Lipid derivatives may be used to generate endocannabinoids or prostanoids derived from arachidonic acid, which attenuates excitotoxicity in quadripartite synapses with a focus in astrocytes and microglia; on the other hand, antioxidants, such as glutathione (GSH) and ascorbate, have been shown to signal through transmitter receptors and protect against acute and chronic oxidative stress, modulating the activity of different signaling pathways. Several authors have investigated the role of these nutrients in young and senescent brain, as well as in degenerative conditions such as Alzheimer\u2019s and Parkinson's diseases. Through literature review, we aimed to highlight recent data on the role of fatty acids, antioxidants and physical activity in physiology and in molecular mechanisms of brain senescence. Data indicate the complexity and essentiality of endogenous/dietary antioxidants for maintenance of the redox status and control of neuroglial signaling under stress. Recent studies also indicate that omega-3 and -6 fatty acids act in a competitive manner to generate mediators for energy metabolism, feeding behavior, plasticity and memory mechanisms throughout aging. Finding pharmacological or dietary resources that mitigate or prevent neurodegenerative affections continues to be a great challenge and require additional efforts from researchers, clinicians and nutritionists in the field.", u'/manuscript/201710.0006/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'Estimation of Forest Stand Parameters Using SPOT-5 Satellite Images and Topographic Information', ['Shiqin Xie', 'Wei Wang', 'Qian liu', 'Jinghui Meng', 'Tianzhong Zhao', 'Guosheng Huang'], u'October 3 2017', u'In recent years, remote sensing technology has been widely used to predict forest stand parameters. In order to compare the effects of different features of remote sensing images and topographic information on the prediction of forest stand parameters, multivariate stepwise regression analysis method was used to build estimation models for important forest stand parameters by using textural and spectral features as well as topographic information of SPOT-5 satellite images in northeastern Heilongjiang Province in China as independent variables. The study results show that the optimal window to predict forest stand parameters using textural features of SPOT-5 satellite image is 9\xd79; the ability of textural features was better than that of spectral features in terms of predicting forest stand parameters; with the inclusion of topographic information, the accuracy of prediction of all models was improved, of which elevation has the most significant effect. The highest accuracy was achieved when predicting the stand volume (SV) (R2adj=0.820), followed by basal area (BA) (R2adj =0.778), accuracy of both above models exceeded 75%. The results show that models combined use of textural, spectral features and topographic information of SPOT-5 images have a good application prospect in predicting forest stand parameters.', u'/manuscript/201710.0017/v1', [u'Forestry'], []]
[u'Effect of Early Pelvic Binder Use in Emergency Management of Suspected Pelvic Trauma: A Retrospective Cohort Study', ['Sheng-Der Hsu', 'Cheng-Jueng Chen', 'Yu-Ching Chou', 'Sheng-Hao Wang', 'De-Chuan Chan'], u'October 4 2017', u'Background: We aimed to evaluate the effect of early pelvic binder use in emergency management of suspected pelvic trauma, compared with the conventional stepwise approach. Methods: We enrolled trauma patients with initial stabilization using a pelvic binder for suspecting pelvic injury. Inclusion criteria were traumatic injury requiring a trauma team and at least one of the following: loss of consciousness or Glasgow coma score (GCS) < 13; systolic blood pressure < 90 mmHg; falling from \u22656 m; injury to multiple vital organs; and suspected pelvic injury. Various parameters, including gender, age, mechanism of injury, GCS, mortality, hospital stay, initial vital sign, revised trauma score, injury severity score, and outcome, were assessed and compared with historical controls. Results: A total of 204 patients with high-energy multiple-trauma from single level I trauma center in North Taiwan were enrolled in the study from August 2013 to July 2014. The two group baseline patient characteristics were all collected and compared. The trauma patients with suspected pelvic fractures initially stabilized with a pelvic binder had shorter hospital and ICU stays. The study group achieved statistically significantly improved survival and lower mean blood transfusion volume and mortality rate although they were more severe in the trauma score. Conclusions: We recommend prompt pelvic binder use for suspected pelvic injury before definitive imaging is available, as a cervical spine collar is used to protect the cervical spine from further injury prior to definitive identification and characterization of an injury.', u'/manuscript/201710.0023/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], []]
[u'Genomic Analysis of Third Generation Cephalosporin Resistant Escherichia Coli from Dairy Cow Manure', ['Muhammad Rehman', 'Xianhua  Yin', 'Dion Lepp', 'Chad Laing', 'Kim Ziebell', 'Guylaine Talbot', 'Edward  Topp', 'Moussa Diarra'], u'October 4 2017', u'The production of extended-spectrum \u03b2-lactamases (ESBLs) conferring resistance to new derivatives of beta-lactams is a major public health threat if present in pathogenic Gram-negative bacteria. The objective of this study was to characterize ceftiofur (TIO)- or cefotaxime (FOX)-resistant Escherichia coli isolated from dairy cow manure. Twelve manure samples were collected from four farms and were incubated under anaerobic conditions for 20 weeks at 4oC or at 25oC. A total of 37 TIO- or FOX-resistant E. coli were isolated from two of the four farms and then their susceptibility to 14 antibiotics was determined. Of the 37 resistant E. coli, 10 different serotypes were isolated with O8:H1 being the predominant serotype (n = 17). Five isolates each of serotypes O9:NM and O153:H42 were detected. All 37 cephalosporin resistant isolates were multi-resistant with the most prevalent resistance spectrum being amoxicillin-clavulanic acid-ampicillin-cefoxitin-ceftiofur-ceftriaxone-chloramphenicol-streptomycin-sulfisoxazole-tetracycline-trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. The genomes of 18 selected isolates were then sequenced and compared to 14 selected human pathogenic E. coli reference genomes obtained from public repositories using different bioinformatics approaches. As expected, all 18 sequenced isolates carried at least one \u03b2-lactamase bla gene: TEM-1, TEM-81, CTX-M115, CTX-M15, OXA-1 or CMY-2. Several other antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) and virulence determinants were detected in the sequenced isolates and all of them harboured antimicrobial resistance plasmids belonging to classic Inc groups. Our results confirm the presence of diverse ESBL producing E. coli isolates in dairy cow manure stored for a short period of time before land spreading that may constitute a reservoir of resistance and virulence genes for horizontal transfer to other bacteria that share the same environment.', u'/manuscript/201710.0022/v1', [u'Microbiology'], []]
[u'Non-Coding RNAs Mediate Chemotherapy Resistance in Ovarian Cancer', ['Yang Shao', 'Hui Li', 'Ran Du', 'Jiao Meng', 'Gong Yang'], u'October 4 2017', u'With the advancement of next generation sequencing in past several years, a rising number of non-coding RNAs have been found as new actors to regulate gene expression. Non-coding RNAs not only play important roles in carcinogenesis, but also affect the clinical treatment strategies. They have been proved to be deeply correlated with chemoresistance in several cancers. Ovarian cancer is the leading cause of death in gynecological malignancy, with low 5-year survival rate. Most patients are identified when they have late-stage disease. This review mainly makes a compilation of the most relevant research literature in this field with the purpose of shedding light on the relation between ncRNAs and chemoresistance in ovarian cancer.', u'/manuscript/201710.0021/v1', [u'Biochemistry'], []]
[u"Assessment of the Nurses' Satisfaction at the Workplace", ['Ana Lucia Joao ', 'Antonio  Portelada '], u'October 6 2017', u'Background: Labor satisfaction is a factor which contributes for the well-being and the quality of the care provided in the nursing profession. Purpose: Validate Siqueira\u2019s Scale of Satisfaction at Work (1995), assess the nurses\u2019 level of satisfaction and analyze the factors which have an influence on the professional nurses\u2019 satisfaction at work. Method: It is a quantitative study, of a correlational character and transversal nature. The sample was constituted by 3227 nurses from several health institutions in Portugal. Discussion: Nurses perceive greater satisfaction at a labor level resulting from the relationship with their coworkers. The dimensions in which nurses have perceived less satisfaction are those regarding wages and professional promotions. The labor regime as well as the occupied position are also two of the conditioning factors for full satisfaction. Conclusions: The organizations responsible for providing/funding healthcare would obtain better results if they took their health professionals\u2019 satisfaction into consideration.', u'/manuscript/201710.0037/v1', [u'Nursing & Health Studies'], []]
[u'Pharmacokinetics of the Hypoxia-Imaging Agent\xa0[123I]IAZA  in Healthy Adults Following Exercise-Based Cardiac Stress', ['Daria Stypinski', 'Stephen A. McQuarrie', 'Alexander J.B. McEwan', 'Leonard I. Wiebe'], u'October 6 2017', u'Objective: \xa0To determine the pharmacokinetics (PK) and detect changes in cardiac uptake of [123I]IAZA, a radiopharmaceutical used to image focal tissue hypoxia, in healthy volunteers after exercise-based cardiac stress, to establish a rational basis for studies of focal myocardial hypoxia in cardiac patients using [123I]IAZA.\xa0 Method:\xa0 Three healthy male volunteers ran the \u2018Bruce\u2019 treadmill protocol (criterion heart rate is 85 % of [220 \u2013 age]).\xa0 Approximately one minute before reaching this level, [123I]IAZA (4.0 mCi/0.85 mg) was administered as a slow (1-3 min) single bolus i.v. injection, then the volunteer continued running for an additional 1 min.\xa0 Serum from venous blood samples, taken at pre-determined intervals from 1 min to 45 h, was analyzed by radioHPLC.\xa0 PK parameters were derived for [123I]IAZA and total radioactivity (total[123I]) using compartmental and noncompartmental analyses (NCA).\xa0 Whole-body planar scintigraphic images were acquired from 0.75 to 24 h after dosing.\xa0 PK data and scintigraphic images were compared to published data from healthy volunteers administered [123I]IAZA at rest. \xa0Results: \xa0Following strenuous exercise, both [123I]IAZA and total[123I] exhibited bi-exponential decline profiles, with rapid distribution phases [half-lives (t1/2\u03b1) of 1.2 and 1.4 min, respectively], followed by slower elimination phases [t1/2\u03b2 of 195 and 290 min, respectively]. \xa0Total body clearance (CLTB) and steady state volume of distribution (Vss) were 0.647 L/kg and 185 mL/min, respectively, for [123I]IAZA and 0.785 L/kg and 135 mL/min, respectively, for total[123I].\xa0 The t1/2\u03b2, CLTB and Vss values were comparable to those reported previously for rested volunteers.\xa0 The t1/2\u03b1 was approximately 4-fold shorter for [123I]IAZA and approximately 3-fold shorter for total[123I] under exercise relative to rested subjects. \xa0The heart was visualized in early whole body scintigraphic images, but overall there were no apparent differences from images reported for rested volunteers.\xa0 Minimal uptake of radiotracer in myocardium and skeletal muscle was consistent with uptake in non-stressed muscle. \xa0Conclusion:\xa0 The PK and whole-body scintigrams for [123I]IAZA in exercise-stressed healthy volunteers showed no clinically relevant differences relative to non-exercised volunteers.\xa0 [123I]IAZA may therefore be suitable for the detection of viable, hypoxic myocardium in areas of myocardial perfusion deficiency.', u'/manuscript/201710.0034/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], []]
[u'Concentrations of Carotenoids and Tocopherols in Breast Milk from Urban Chinese Mothers and their Associations with Maternal Characteristics\uff1aA Cross-Sectional Study', ['Yong Xue', 'Esther Campos Gimenez', 'Karine Meisser Redeuil', 'Antoine Leveques', 'Lucas Actis-Goretta', 'Gerard Vinyes- Pares', 'Yumei Zhang', 'Peiyu wang', 'Sagar K. Thakkar'], u'October 6 2017', u'This study aims to quantify carotenoids and tocopherols in human milk from healthy Chinese women, and to explore their associations with region, lactation stage, and maternal socio-economic and obstetric factors. Human milk was obtained from 509 healthy mothers and the compounds of carotenoids and tocopherols were analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography after mild saponification and solvent extraction. Socio-economic and obstetric characteristics of the mothers and their dietary intakes through a single 24-hour dietary recall were evaluated. The median content of each component [\u03bcg/100mL, median (interquartile range)] in colostrum and mature milk was, respectively, \u03b2-carotene 8.0 (4.7-15.2) and 1.8 (1.4-2.7), \u03b2-cryptoxanthin 6.2 (2.4-12.9) and 1.8 (1.1-3.4), lutein 5.7 (2.9-10.2) and 3.4 (1.5-6.0), lycopene 6.3 (4.0-9.9) and 1.4 (1.1-2.0), zeaxanthin 1.0 (0.6-1.5) and 1.0 (0.6-1.4), \u03b1-tocopherol 645 (388-1176) and 211 (131-321), \u03b3-tocopherol 68 (48-121) and 77 (45-120). The levels of all those vitamins presented regional differences, and decreased as lactation stage increased except for zeaxanthin and \u03b3-tocopherol. Associations of carotenoid contents with maternal education, delivery mode, and present body mass index were found in multivariate analyses. These results suggest that some region, lactation stage, obstetric and socio-economic factors are associated with human milk concentrations of carotenoids and tocopherols in healthy Chinese mothers.', u'/manuscript/201710.0031/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'Impacts of Sewage Irrigation on Soil Properties of Farmland in China: A Review', ['Qiangkun Li', 'Jiao Tang', 'Tian Wang', 'Dafu Wu', 'Ruifeng Jiao', 'Xiujuan Ren'], u'October 9 2017', u'Fresh water is valuable nonrenewable resource and plays an important role of maintaining economic and social development. Condisering its large population and consumption potential, water resources deficit will certainly impede basic industries sustainable development of China in the near future. Application of sewage irrigation, to some extent, was regarded as an alternative way to solve the problem of agricultural irrigation water shortage in some areas (such as North China). However, accompanied with extensive implementation of sewage irrigation, some problems on sewage irrigation in agriculture are gradually obvious, especially serious pollution and destruction for farmland. In this paper, the effects of sewage irrigation on soil physical (soil bulk density, soil resistance to penetration and field capacity), chemical (pH, soil organic matter, nitrogen, phosphrous, patassium, heavy metal and organic pollutants) and biological characteristics (soil microorganism and enzyme activities) of farmland in China were systematically reviewed on the base of the current utilization status of China\u2019s farmland sewage irrigation and some feasible suggestions were put forward to the development prospect for the future. This review will be beneficial for promoting healthy development of sewage irrigation and providing theoretical support for reclamation and high efficiency of effluents in China.', u'/manuscript/201710.0048/v1', [u'Agricultural Sciences & Agronomy'], []]
[u'Nerve Growth Factor(s) Mediated Hypothalamic Pituitary Axis Activation Model in Stress Induced Genesis of Psychiatric Disorders', ['Ashutosh Kumar', 'Pavan Kumar', 'Vikas Pareek', 'Muneeb A. Faiq', 'Khursheed Raza', 'Pranav  Prasoon', 'Sankat  Mochan', 'Vivek  Sharma'], u'October 9 2017', u'Apart from their established role in embryonic development Nerve Growth Factors (NGFs) have diverse functions in the nervous system. Their role in integration of physiological functioning of the nervous system is now attracting attention. In the present analysis, we propose a new paradigm about a novel role of NGFs. We hypothesize that NGFs play imperative role in maintaining psychological integrity of an individual as a biological system. This function may be mediated through HPA-axis- operated homeostatic mechanisms; stress induced disruption of which may lead to psychiatric disorders. Current literature suggests existence of constitutive homeostatic regulatory mechanisms for NGFs disruption which may lead to important behavioural effects. NGFs have been shown to play crucial parts in endocrine regulation. This is especially true with the prototype \u2018NGF\u2019 and Brain Derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF). These moieties have been observed to play important role in maintaining neuro-endocrine homeostasis thereby having a profound impact on the psychological health of an individual. Role of NGFs and HPA-axis activation (in separate studies) in developing psychiatric disorders - especially those born of stress - have been established. Literature suggests their unique interplay for producing a common effect which might be implicated in stress induced genesis of psychiatric disorders. This aspect, therefore, needs to be elucidated further as a disease etiogenesis model. This model may yield important insights into the evolution of psychiatric disorders and may open ways for new therapeutic approaches.', u'/manuscript/201710.0047/v1', [u'Psychiatry & Mental Health studies'], []]
[u'Impact of Genetic Polymorphism of Sulpha Transferase Genes (SULT1A) Genes on the Risk of Females with Breast Cancer in Jordan', ['Mona Bustami', 'Abdel-Ellah Al-Shudifat', 'Nagham Hussein', 'Mohannad Yacoub', 'Eiad Atwa', 'Israr Sabri', 'Rania Abu-Hamdah', 'Walid Abu-Rayyan', 'Tawfiq Arafat', 'Adnan Badran', 'Luay Abu-Qatouseh'], u'October 9 2017', u'Sulfotransferases (SULTs) family plays a significant role in the biotransformation of a variety of xenobiotics and endogenous compounds by which carcinogenesis and mutagenicity of different malignancies are increasingly affected. Recent data identified various genetically polymorphic SULTs enzymes with significant variations in the enzyme activity. This study aimed to investigate the impact of SULT1A1 gene polymorphism and and its potential risk on females with breast cancer in Jordan using a PCR-RFLP and Sanger Sequencing methods. The analysis showed that 24.7% of the patients and 25.3% of the controls were homozygous for the SULT1A1*1 allele (SULT1A1*1/SULT1A1*1) compared to 8.8% and 5.7% homozygous for the SULT1A1*2 allele (SULT1A1*2/SULT1A1*2) for patients and controls respectively. Most of the patients and controls were heterozygous for SULT1A1*1 allele (SULT1A1*1/SULT1A1*2) with rates of 66.5% and 69.0% in patients and controls respectively. In addition, the frequencies of the mutant SULT1A1*2 allele were 0.42 and 0.4 in the patient and control groups respectively. No significant difference in genotype and allele distribution was noted between the breast cancer and control groups. The risk of breast cancer in individuals carrying the SULT1A1*2 allele was determined by combining the SULT1A1*1/SULT1A1*2 and SULT1A1*2/SULT1A1*2 genotypes. No association was observed between SULT1A1 polymorphism and breast cancer incidence (P = 0.63; OR, 0.93; 95% CI, 0.68-1.26). However, SULT1A1*2 allele was found to increase the risk of breast cancer by 1.26-fold.', u'/manuscript/201710.0050/v1', [u'Genetics'], []]
[u'Presence of Legionella spp. in Hot Water Networks of Different Italian Residential Buildings: A Three-Year Survey', ['Michele Totaro', 'Paola Valentini', 'Anna Laura Costa', 'Lorenzo Frendo', 'Alessia Cappello', 'Beatrice Casini', 'Mario Miccoli', 'Gaetano Privitera', 'Angelo Baggiani'], u'October 10 2017', u'Although the European reports highlight an increase in community-acquired Legionnaires\u2019 disease cases, the risk of Legionella spp. in private houses is underestimated. In Pisa (Italy) we performed a three-year survey on Legionella presence in 121 buildings with an independent hot water production (IB); 64 buildings with a central hot water production (CB); and 35 buildings with a solar thermal system for hot water production (TB). From all the 220 buildings Legionella spp. was researched in two hot water samples collected either at the recirculation point or at on the first floor and on the last floor, while the potable water quality was analyzed in three cold water samples collected at the inlet from the aqueduct network, at the exit from the autoclave, and at the most remove remote? tap. Legionella pneumophila sg1, Legionella pneumophila sg2-16 and not-pneumophila Legionella species were detected in 26% of the hot water networks, mostly in CB and TB. In these buildings we detected correlations between the presence of Legionella and the total chlorine concentration decrease or/and the increase of the temperature. Cold water resulted free from microbiological hazards, with the exception of Serratia liquefaciens and Enterobacter cloacae isolated at the exit from two different autoclaves. We observed an increase in total microbial counts at 22 and 37\xb0C between the samples collected at the most remote taps compared to the ones collected at the inlet from the aqueduct. The study highlights a condition of potential risk for susceptible categories of population and supports the need for measures of risk assessment and control.', u'/manuscript/201710.0058/v1', [u'Microbiology'], []]
[u'Aerobic and Anaerobic Threshold Determined by Specific Test in Judo Is Not Correlated with General Test', ['Paulo Azevedo', 'Joao Carlos Oliveira', 'Alessandro Zagatto', 'Paulo Eduardo Pereira', 'Sergio Eduardo Andrade Perez'], u'October 10 2017', u'Then the purposes of this study were to compare and correlate the aerobic threshold (THaer) and anaerobic threshold (THanaer) measured during a new single judo specific incremental test and Treadmill Test for aerobic demand evaluation. Eight well-trained male competitive judo players (24.3\xb17.9 years; height of 169.3\xb16.7cm; fat mass of 12.7\xb13.9%) performed a maximal incremental specific test for judo mimicking the UchiKomi drills and on treadmill in different days. There was difference between specific and general THaer (P=0.0006) as well as weak correlation for THaer (r=0.32; R2=0.1; P=0.2) and THanaer (rs=-0.31; R2=0.1; P=0.12). When correlation was applied with normalized data (percentage of peak load) we observed moderate correlation for THaer (r=0.76; R2=0.58; P=0.027), but the same was not observed for THanaer. We conclude that there is a need of THaer and THanaer evaluation through a specific test for Judo.', u'/manuscript/201710.0063/v1', [u'Sport Sciences & Therapy'], []]
[u'How to Clear HBV cccDNA: CRISPR/Cas9 Might Be Promising', ['Yan Qiu', 'Ying Liu', 'Wen Ren', 'Jing Ren'], u'October 10 2017', u'BACKGROUND: Chronic hepatitis B infected with Hepatitis B virus remains a major health concern worldwide. Despite standard interferon-\u03b1 and nucleotide analogues have been shown to reduce the deterioration of liver disease among chronic hepatitis B patients, covalently closed circular DNA was still difficult to eradicate. METHODS: A literature search of Pubmed and Web of science was performed with the following key words: \u2018CRISPR\u2019, \u2018CRISPR/Cas9\u2019, \u2018hepatitis B\u2019, \u2018HBV\u2019, \u2018chronic hepatitis B\u2019 and \u2018HBV cccDNA\u2019. The information about CRISPR/Cas9 for the treatment of HBV cccDNA or hepatitis B was reviewed. RESULTS: CRISPR/Cas9 could treat hepatitis B through suppressing or clearing HBV cccDNA with different gRNAs. CONCLUSION: With the emergence of CRISPR/Cas9 (the RNA-guided clustered regulatory interspaced short palindromic repeats, CRISPR) editing technology, clearance of hepatitis B virus and better prevention of liver carcinoma seemed to be possible.', u'/manuscript/201710.0065/v1', [u'Genetics'], []]
[u'Elliptic Fourier Analysis in the Study of the Male Genitalia to Discriminate Three Macrolophus Species (Hemiptera: Miridae)', ['A. M. Jauset', 'E. Edo-Tena', 'P. M. Pares-Casanova', 'C. Castane', 'N. Agusti', 'O. Alomar'], u'October 12 2017', u'Within the genus Macrolophus (Heteroptera: Miridae), the species M. costalis (Fieber), M. melanotoma (Costa) and M. pygmaeus (Rambur) are present in the Mediterranean region on a wide variety of plant species. While M. costalis can easily be separated from the other two by the black tip at the scutellum, M. pygmaeus and M. melanotoma are cryptic species, extremely similar to one another in external traits, which have resulted in misidentifications. M. pygmaeus is an efficient biological control agent, both in greenhouse and field crops. The misidentification of these cryptic species could limit the effectiveness of biological control programs. Although morphology of the left paramere of the male genitalia has been used as a character for identification of these two cryptic species, there is controversy on the reliability of this character as a taxonomic tool for these species. Using geometric morphometric techniques, which are a powerful approach in detecting slight shape variations, the left parameres from these three Macrolophus species were compared. The paramere of M. costalis was larger and had a different shape than that of M. melanotoma and M. pygmaeus; however, no differences in size or shape were found between the left paramere of M. melanotoma and that of M. pygmaeus. Therefore, our results confirm that this character is too similar and it cannot be used to discriminate between these two cryptic species.', u'/manuscript/201710.0071/v1', [u'Agricultural Sciences & Agronomy'], []]
[u'The Optimum Slash Pile Size for Grinding Operations: Grapple Excavator and Horizontal Grinder Operations Model Based on a Sierra Nevada, California Survey', ['Takuyuki Yoshioka', 'Rin Sakurai', 'Shohei Kameyama', 'Koki Inoue', 'Bruce Hartsough'], u'October 12 2017', u'The processing of woody biomass waste piles for use as fuel instead of burning them was investigated. At each landing slash pile location, a 132 kW grapple excavator was used to transfer the waste piles into a 522 kW horizontal grinder. Economies of scale could be expected when grinding a larger pile, although the efficiency of the loading operation might be diminished. Here, three piles were ground and the operations were time-studied: Small (20 m long \xd7 15 m wide \xd7 4 m high), Medium (30 \xd7 24 \xd7 4 m), and Large (35 \xd7 30 \xd7 4 m) piles. Grinding the Medium pile was found to be the most productive at 30.65 bone dry tons per productive machine hour without delay (BDT/PMH0), thereby suggesting that there might be an optimum size of slash pile for a grinding operation. We also examined modeling of the excavator and grinder operations, and we observed that the constructed simulation model well-replicated the actual operations. Based on the modeling, we estimated that the productivity of grinding at a landing area of 710 m2 of slash pile location was 31.24 BDT/PMH0, which was the most productive rate.', u'/manuscript/201710.0082/v1', [u'Forestry'], []]
[u'Validity of Dietary Assessment in Athletes: A Systematic Review', ['Louise Capling', 'Kathryn L. Beck', 'Janelle A. Gifford', 'Gary Slater', 'Victoria M. Flood', "Helen O'Connor"], u'October 12 2017', u'Dietary assessment methods recognized as appropriate for the general population are usually applied in a similar manner to athletes, despite knowledge that sport-specific factors can complicate assessment and impact accuracy in unique ways. As dietary assessment methods are used extensively within the field of sports nutrition, there is concern the validity of methodologies have not undergone more rigorous evaluation in this unique population sub-group. The purpose was to systematically review studies comparing two or more methods of dietary assessment, including dietary intake measured against biomarkers or reference measures of energy expenditure, in athletes. Six electronic databases were searched for English-language, full-text articles published from January 1980 until June 2016. The search strategy combined the following keywords: diet, nutrition assessment, athlete and validity; where the following outcomes are reported but not limited to: energy intake, macro and/or micronutrient intake, food intake, nutritional adequacy, diet quality, or nutritional status. Meta-analysis was performed on studies with sufficient methodological similarity, with between-group standardized mean differences (or effect size) and 95 % confidence intervals (CI) calculated. Of the 1624 studies identified, 18 were eligible for inclusion. Studies comparing self-reported energy intake (EI) to energy expenditure assessed via doubly labelled water were grouped for comparison (n=11) and demonstrated mean EI was under-estimated by 19 % (- 2793 \xb1 1134 kJ/d). Meta-analysis revealed a large pooled effect size of - 1.006 (95% CI: -1.3 to -0.7; p<0.001). The remaining studies (n=7) compared a new dietary tool or instrument to a reference method(s) (e.g. food record, 24-h dietary recall, biomarker) as part of a validation study. This systematic review revealed there are limited robust studies evaluating dietary assessment methods in athletes. Existing literature demonstrates substantial variability between methods, with under and misreporting of intake frequently observed. There is a clear need for careful validation of dietary assessment methods, including emerging technical innovations, among athlete populations.', u'/manuscript/201710.0081/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Microcantilever Resonators for Ochratoxin A Detection in Food and Drinks', ['Karin Santoro', 'Ambra Prelle', 'Davide Spadaro', 'Maria Lodovica Gullino', 'Carlo Ricciardi'], u'October 13 2017', u'Mycotoxins food contamination represents a serious risk for consumers health. They are secondary metabolites of fungi that can be present in a wide range of foodstuffs. Ochratoxin A (OTA) is one of the most toxic compound and it is classified as a possible carcinogenic molecule. The harmful effects of OTA on human and animal health lead to a big boost to develop and optimize highly sensitive and accurate methods for OTA detection. An innovative and rapid detection method based on microcantilever resonators for ochratoxin A identification in food matrix has been developed. This work demonstrates the possibility to apply microcantilever technology in food safety field, showing for the first time in literature the successful detection of one of the most dangerous mycotoxin in different food matrixes both solids and liquids, such as green coffee, grape juice and wine. Sensing performances are discussed in terms of calibration plot and limit of detection.', u'/manuscript/201710.0083/v1', [u'Biotechnology'], []]
[u'Dynamics of the Bacterial Community Associated with Phaeodactylum tricornutum Cultures', ['Fiona Wanjiku Moejes', 'Ovidiu Popa', 'Antonella Succurro', 'Julie Maguire', 'Oliver Ebenhoh'], u'October 17 2017', u'The pennate diatom Phaeodactylum tricornutum is a model organism able to synthesize industrially-relevant molecules. Commercial-scale cultivation currently requires large monocultures, prone to bio-contamination. However, little is known about the identity of the invading organisms. To reduce the complexity of natural systems, we systematically investigated the microbiome of non-axenic P. tricornutum cultures from a culture collection in reproducible experiments. The results revealed a dynamic bacterial community that developed differently in \u201ccomplete\u201d and \u201cminimal\u201d media conditions. In complete media, we observed an accelerated \u201cculture crash\u201d, indicating a more stable culture in minimal media. The identification of only four bacterial families as major players within the microbiome suggests specific roles depending on environmental conditions. From our results we propose a network of putative interactions between P. tricornutum and these main bacterial factions. We demonstrate that, even with rather sparse data, a mathematical model can be reconstructed that qualitatively reproduces the observed population dynamics, thus indicating that our hypotheses regarding the molecular interactions are in agreement with experimental data. Whereas the model in its current state is only qualitative, we argue that it serves as a starting point to develop quantitative and predictive mathematical models, which may guide experimental efforts to synthetically construct and monitor stable communities required for robust upscaling strategies.', u'/manuscript/201710.0122/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Trends in Computer-Aided Diagnosis Using Deep Learning Techniques: A Review of Recent Studies on Algorithm Development', ['Bosede Iyiade Edwards', 'Nosiba Hisham Osman Khougali', 'Adrian David Cheok'], u'October 17 2017', u'With recent focus on deep neural network architectures for development of algorithms for computer-aided diagnosis (CAD), we provide a review of studies within the last 3 years (2015-2017) reported in selected top journals and conferences. 29 studies that met our inclusion criteria were reviewed to identify trends in this field and to inform future development. Studies have focused mostly on cancer-related diseases within internal medicine while diseases within gender-/age-focused fields like gynaecology/pediatrics have not received much focus. All reviewed studies employed image datasets, mostly sourced from publicly available databases (55.2%) and few based on data from human subjects (31%) and non-medical datasets (13.8%), while CNN architecture was employed in most (70%) of the studies. Confirmation of the effect of data manipulation on quality of output and adoption of multi-class rather than binary classification also require more focus. Future studies should leverage collaborations with medical experts to aid future with actual clinical testing with reporting based on some generally applicable index to enable comparison. Our next steps on plans for CAD development for osteoarthritis (OA), with plans to consider multi-class classification and comparison across deep learning approaches and unsupervised architectures were also highlighted.', u'/manuscript/201710.0117/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Gossypol Detoxification in the Rumen: Scientific Insights from Helicoverpa armigera', ['Wei-Kang Wang', 'Yan-Lu Wang', 'Kai-Lun Yang', 'Sheng-Li Li', 'Hong-Jian Yang'], u'October 17 2017', u'Gossypol, a phenolic compound from pigment glands in cotton plant, is widely distributed in cottonseed products. Although ruminant animals in comparison with monogastric animals are believed to have high tolerance to gossypol toxicity due to microbial fermentation in the rumen, it is not quite clear what exact detoxification action mode exist in the rumen. In last decades, toxicological aspects of gossypol overtake has been well described, but knowledge on its detoxification mode in the rumen was built mainly based on the determination of either ruminal disappearance of free gossypol (FG) or its conversion to bound gossypol (BG) since the latter is less toxic in ruminant animals. In contrast, metabolic detoxification of gossypol in Helicoverpa armigera larvae has achieved great advances, and many studies have been done to investigate the presence of several key enzymes involved in gossypol detoxification, including glucosidase, cytochrome oxidase P450, glutathione transferase and carboxylesterase. In this review, dietary allowance limit of gossypol and its harmfulness in ruminant animals were discussed, and regulating roles of the above key enzymes in gossypol detoxification and transformation were summarized. With the rapid development of modern molecular biotechnology and omics technology strategies, there have been increasingly evidences or clues implicating that research progresses on biological degradation of gossypol in H. armigera larvae and some microbes in terms of these key enzymes could provide us some scientific insights for future microbial gossypol detoxification study in the rumen with final aim to alleviate gossypol toxicity further in ruminant animals.', u'/manuscript/201710.0112/v1', [u'Microbiology'], []]
[u'Revealing ETC-1922159 Affected Unknown 3rd order WNT10B-X-X Combinations, in Silico', ['shriprakash sinha'], u'October 18 2017', u'WNT10B belongs to the family of WNT proteins that are implicated in a range of phenomena that are affected by the Wnt signaling pathway. Recent studies have shown that WNT10B plays a role in colorectal cancer. WNTs have been found to directly affect the stemness of the tumor cells via regulation of ASCL2. Switching off the ASCL2 literally blocks the stemness process of the tumor cells and vice versa. Furthermore, recent findings suggest BVES to be highly suppressed in malignancies and in vitro deletions of BVES show higher Wnt signaling activity to induce stem- ness. WNT10B was found to be highly expressed in such cases. Often, in biology, we are faced with the problem of exploring relevant unknown biological hypotheses in the form of myriads of combination of factors that might be affecting the pathway under certain conditions. For example, WNT10B-ASCL2 is one such 2nd order combination whose relation needs to be tested under the influence of recently developed porcupine-WNT inhibitor ETC-1922159. The inhibitor is known to suppress PORCN (porcupine) and thus inhibit a range of oncogenes known to be directly or indirectly affected by the Wnts. In a recent unpublished work in bioRxiv, Sinha 1, we had the opportunity to rank these unknown biological hypotheses for down regulated genes at 2nd order level after the drug was administered. The in silico observations showed that the combination of WNT10B-ASCL2 was assigned a relatively lower rank, thus validating the pipeline\u2019s efficacy with the confirmed wet lab experiment that indicate that both WNT10B and ASCL2 were down regulated after treatment in cancer cells. Here, we take one step further by in silico analysis of the 3rd order combinations of WNT10B-X-X (X can be known or unknown factor), from a range of 100 randomly picked down regulated genes after ETC-1922159 treatment. The pipeline uses the density based HSIC (Hilbert Schmidt Information Criterion) sensitivity index with an rbf (ra- dial basis function) kernel, which is known to be highly effective in sensitivity analysis. Various unknown/unexplored/untested 3rd order biological hypotheses emerge some of which are con- firmed in wet lab, while others need to be tested. The potential of such ranking is indispensable in the current era of search in a vast combinatorial forest.', u'/manuscript/201710.0127/v1', [u'Anatomy & Morphology'], []]
[u'Gene Silencing of Argonaute5 Negatively Affects the Establishment of the Legume-Rhizobia Symbiosis', ['Maria del Rocio Reyero-Saavedra', 'Zhenzhen Qiao', 'Maria del Socorro Sanchez-Correa', 'M. Enrique Diaz-Pineda', 'Jose L. Reyes', 'Alejandra A. Covarrubias', 'Marc Libault', 'Oswaldo Valdes-Lopez'], u'October 18 2017', u'The establishment of the symbiosis between legumes and nitrogen-fixing rhizobia is finely regulated at the transcriptional, posttranscriptional and posttranslational levels. Argonaute5 (AGO5), a protein involved in RNA silencing, is able to bind both viral RNAs and microRNAs to control plant-microbe interactions and plant physiology. For instance, AGO5 regulates the systemic resistance of Arabidopsis against Potato Virus X as well as the pigmentation of soybean (Glycine max) seeds. Here, we show that AGO5 is also playing a central role in legume nodulation based on its preferential expression in common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) and soybean roots and nodules. We also report that the expression of AGO5 is induced after 1 hour of inoculation with rhizobia. Down-regulation of AGO5 gene in P. vulgaris and G. max causes diminished root hair curling, reduces nodule formation and interferes with the induction of three critical symbiotic genes: NUCLEAR FACTOR Y-B (NF-YB), NODULE INCEPTION (NIN) and FLOTILIN2 (FLOT2). Our findings provide evidence that the common bean and soybean AGO5 genes play an essential role in the establishment of the symbiosis with rhizobia in determinate legumes.', u'/manuscript/201710.0123/v1', [u'Plant Sciences'], []]
[u'HtrA1 Is Specifically Up-Regulated in Active Keloid Lesions and Stimulates Keloids Development', ['Satoko Yamawaki', 'Motoko Naitoh', 'Hiroshi Kubota', 'Rino Aya', 'Yasuhiro Katayama', 'Toshihiro Ishiko', 'Taku Tamura', 'Katsuhiro Yoshikawa', 'Tatsuki Enoshiri', 'Mika Ikeda', 'Shigehiko Suzuki'], u'October 20 2017', u'1) Background: Keloids occur after the failure during the wound-healing process, persist the inflammation and are refractory to various treatments. The pathogenesis of keloids is still unclear. We previously analyzed the gene expression profiles in keloid tissue using microarray and Northern blot analysis and found that HtrA1 was markedly upregulated in the keloid lesions. HtrA1 is a member of the HtrA family of serine protease, has been suggested to play a role in the pathogenesis of various diseases including age-related macular degeneration and osteoarthritis by modulating proteins in extracellular matrix or cell surface. We focused on HtrA1, analyzed the localization and the role in keloid pathogenesis. 2) Methods: Twenty seven keloid patients and seven unrelated patients were enrolled in this study. We performed in situ hybridization analysis, immunohistochemical analysis, western blot analysis and cell proliferation assay. 3) Results: First, the fibroblast-like cells expressed HtrA1 higher in the active keloid lesions than in the surrounding lesions in situ hybridization. Second, the proportion of HtrA1-positive cells in keloid was higher than that of in normal skin significantly in immunohistochemical analysis. Third, HtrA1 protein was up-regulated, relative to normal skin tissue samples in western blot analysis. Finally, silencing of HtrA1 gene expression suppressed the cell proliferation significantly. 4) Conclusion: HtrA1 was highly expressed in keloid tissues and the suppression of HtrA1 gene inhibited the proliferation of keloid-derived fibroblasts. HtrA1 may promote keloid development through accelerating cell proliferation and remodeling keloid-specific extracellular matrix or cell surface molecules. HtrA1 is suggested to have an important role in keloid pathogenesis.', u'/manuscript/201710.0136/v1', [u'Dermatology'], []]
[u'A Rapid Screening Test for the Diagnosis of Influenza Infection Incubation Period Using Coincidence Analysis of Pulse Waves', ['Po-Ying Chen', 'Keng-Chang  Tu', 'Shyr-Shen Yu', 'Wen-Kuan Yeh'], u'October 20 2017', u'Viral infections have long been the biggest threat to human survival, and from a medical perspective, the development of noninvasive high-throughput screening methods that target the incubation period to either treat diseases or limit viral spread would be strikingly effective. Using this technology to target viral incubation periods would also be inexpensive to perform. The current study proposes to transform pulse signals into a rapid diagnostic test using \u201ccoincidence analysis\u201d in the hope of preventing or reducing the symptoms of viral infections. The heart plays a critical role in calculating and supplying the needs of all tissues of the body. Pulse waves are pressurized signals in response to heart\u2019s calculations and include all phases of the cardiac cycle, which maintains life and provides energy needed to perform tasks. Any small movement gives a corresponding signal to pulse waves. The current study investigated conclusive data on self-limiting infections, such as common cold. We used pulse wave, coincidence analysis technology to capture signals from individuals with common cold during the incubation period and investigated if particular characteristic signals could be applied to influenza during the incubation period. Preliminary work demonstrated that pulse waves could generate signals using this technology that would be worthwhile for future research. A small amount of analytical data from common cold existed previously. The data structure is based on the idea that a single pulse wave at differing physiological conditions would have slight modifications that would be amplified and presented by various geometrical shapes after extensive data are accumulated. These geometric shapes can then be sliced vertically or horizontally to extract data during different illness stages. The significance of these findings are impressive; from a personal or a public hygiene perspective, this analytical technology provides many benefits, such as rapid and precise decision-making that can be directly visualized or can be analyzed using software programs. Also, this technology also uses futuristic wearable technology that brings practical problem solving to physiology.', u'/manuscript/201710.0137/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], []]
[u'Thiopurine Drugs Repositioned as Tyrosinase Inhibitors', ['Joonhyuck Choi', 'You-Mie Lee', 'Jun-Goo Jee'], u'October 22 2017', u'In this study, we repositioned thiopurine drugs used for the treatment of acute leukaemia as new tyrosinase inhibitors. Tyrosinase catalyses two distinct and successive oxidations in melanin biosynthesis: the conversions of tyrosine to dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) and DOPA to dopaquinone. Continuous efforts are underway to discover small molecule inhibitors of tyrosinase for therapeutic, cosmetic, and agricultural purposes. Structure-based virtual screening has predicted inhibitor candidates for mushroom tyrosinase from drugs approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Enzyme assays have confirmed the thiopurine leukaemia drug, thioguanine, as a tyrosinase inhibitor. Two other thiopurine drugs, mercaptopurine and azathioprine, were also evaluated for their tyrosinase inhibitory activity; mercaptopurine caused stronger inhibition than thioguanine did, whereas azathioprine was a poor inhibitor. The inhibitory constants of thioguanine and mercaptopurine were calculated as 52 and 16 \xb5M, respectively, and the value of mercaptopurine was comparable to that of the well-known inhibitor kojic acid (13 \xb5M). The cell lysate and melanin content assay in B16F10 melanoma cells confirmed that the compounds inhibited mammalian tyrosinase. In particular, 50 \xb5M thioguanine reduced the melanin content by 57% without cytotoxicity. Furthermore, the thiopurine drugs shared little chemical similarity with the known tyrosinase inhibitors.', u'/manuscript/201710.0143/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], []]
[u'Dietary Magnesium May Be Protective for Aging of Bone and Skeletal Muscle in Middle and Younger Older Age Men and Women: Cross-Sectional Findings from the UK Biobank Cohort', ['Ailsa A. Welch', 'Jane Skinner', 'Mary Hickson'], u'October 23 2017', u'Although fragility fractures, osteoporosis, sarcopenia and frailty are becoming more prevalent in our aging society the treatment options are limited and preventative strategies are needed. Despite magnesium being integral bone and muscle physiology the relationship between dietary magnesium and skeletal muscle and bone health has not been investigated concurrently before. We analysed cross-sectional associations between dietary magnesium and skeletal muscle mass (as fat free mass \u2013 FFM), grip strength and bone density (BMD) in 156,575 men and women aged 39-72 years from the UK Biobank cohort. FFM was measured with bioelectrical impedance and expressed as the percentage of body weight (FFM%) or divided by body mass index (FFMBMI). Adjusted mean grip strength, FFM%, FFMBMI, and BMD were calculated according quintiles of dietary magnesium, correcting for covariates. Significant inter-quintile differences across intakes of magnesium existed in men and women respectively of 1.1% and 2.4% for grip strength, 3.0% and 3.6% for FFM%, 5.1% and 5.5% for FFMBMI, and 2.9% and 0.9% for BMD. These associations are as great or greater than annual measured losses of these musculoskeletal outcomes indicating potential clinical significance. Our study suggests that dietary magnesium may play a role in musculoskeletal health and have relevance for population prevention strategies for sarcopenia, osteoporosis and fractures.', u'/manuscript/201710.0149/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'To Group or Not to Group? Good Practice for Housing Male Laboratory Mice', ['Sarah  Kappel', 'Penny  Hawkins', 'Michael T.  Mendl'], u'October 24 2017', u'It is widely recommended to group house male laboratory mice because they are \u2018social animals\u2019, but male mice do not naturally share territories and aggression can be a serious welfare problem. Even without aggression, not all animals within a group will be in a state of positive welfare. Rather, many male mice may be negatively affected by the stress of repeated social defeat and subordination, raising concerns about welfare and also research validity. However, individual housing may not be an appropriate solution, given the welfare implications associated with no social contact. An essential question is whether it is in the best welfare interests of male mice to be group- or singly-housed. This review explores the likely impacts, positive and negative, of both housing conditions, presents results of a survey of current practice and awareness of mouse behaviour, and includes recommendations for good practice and future research. We conclude that whether group- or single-housing is better (or less worse) in any situation is highly context-dependent according to several factors including strain, age, social position, life experiences, and housing and husbandry protocols. It is important to recognise this and evaluate what is preferable from animal welfare and ethical perspectives in each case.', u'/manuscript/201710.0150/v1', [u'Animal Sciences & Zoology'], []]
[u'Docosahexaenoic Acid Induces Cell Death through Downregulation of Hedgehog Signaling via Surt6 Activation in Human EGFR Mutant Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer', ['Soyeon Jeong', 'Kaipeng Jing', 'Soyeon Shin', 'Soyeon Kim', 'Seung-Hyeon Han', 'Yoon-Seon Yoo', 'Young-Joo Jeon', 'Jun-Young Heo', 'Gi-Ryang Kweon', 'Seung-Kiel Park', 'Jong-Il Park', 'Kyu Lim'], u'October 24 2017', u'Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (\u03c93-PUFAs), including docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), have been shown to exert anticancer effects by inducing apoptotic cell death. However, the mechanism for DHA-induced cell death in lung cancer is not fully understood. Here, we show that DHA induces apoptosis in two human EGFR mutant non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cell lines, and that DHA-induced cell death is accompanied by SIRT6 activation and attenuated Hedgehog (Hh) signaling. Knockdown of SIRT6 using siRNAs inhibited DHA-induced apoptosis, whereas SIRT6 overexpression increased apoptotic cell death. DHA-induced SIRT6 activation was associated with downregulation of Hh signaling, and knockdown of SIRT6 resulted in augmentation of Hh signaling. Pretreatment of NSCLC cells with a Smoothened agonist prevented DHA-induced decreases in the levels of Hh signaling proteins and increases in cleaved PARP levels. Moreover, endogenous production of \u03c93-PUFAs in PC9 cells via fat-1 expression resulted in elevated SIRT6 levels and reduced levels of Hh signaling molecules, including Gli, following DHA treatment. Overall, these results implicate that \u03c93-PUFAs induce apoptosis by downregulating Hh signaling via SIRT6 activation in human EGFR mutant NSCLC cells. These findings suggest that \u03c93-PUFAs potentially represent an effective therapy for the chemoprevention and treatment of NSCLC.', u'/manuscript/201710.0157/v1', [u'Oncology & Oncogenics'], []]
[u'Student Learning Experiences and Outcomes in The Mississippi State University College of Veterinary Medicine Shelter Medicine Program', ['Jacob M. Shivley', 'Cooper W. Brookshire', 'Philip A. Bushby', 'Kimberly A. Woodruff'], u'October 24 2017', u'While referral-level medicine is important in the veterinary curriculum, students also need a solid base knowledge of clinically relevant routine surgery and diagnostic skills. Veterinary hospitals must maintain a steady caseload that provides wellness cases and commonly encountered conditions. Shelter Medicine programs can create the opportunities to meet these challenges. Students can gain quantifiable surgical experience in spay/neuter with measured growth in surgical efficiency and competency while providing needed community service for animal shelters. Students can directly interact with shelter animals by performing examinations, diagnostic testing, and development of treatment protocols and recommendations for commonly encountered problems. Furthermore, students can obtain a working knowledge of biosecurity on a population level to minimize risk of infectious diseases spreading to healthy populations.', u'/manuscript/201710.0151/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Regulation and Sensing of Inflammasomes and Their Impact on Intestinal Health', ['Nicole Ranson', 'Dale Kunde', 'Rajaraman Eri'], u'October 25 2017', u'Pattern recognition receptors such as nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain (NOD)-containing protein receptors (NLRs) and the pyrin and HIN domain (PYHIN) receptors initiate the inflammatory response following cell stress or pathogenic challenge. When activated some of these receptors oligomerize to form the structural backbone of a signalling platform known as the inflammasome. The inflammasome promotes the activation of caspase-1 and the maturation of the proinflammatory cytokines, interleukin (IL)-1\u03b2 and IL-18. In the gut dysregulation of the inflammasome complex is thought to be a contributing factor in the development of inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD), such as ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn\u2019s disease (CD). The importance of inflammasomes to intestinal health has been emphasized by various inflammasome deficient mice in dextran sulphate sodium (DSS) models of intestinal inflammation and by the identification of novel potential candidate genes in population based human studies. In this review we summarise the most recent finding with regard to formation, sensing and regulation of the inflammasome complex and highlight their importance in maintaining intestinal health.', u'/manuscript/201710.0160/v1', [u'Gastroenterology'], []]
[u'A Combination of Coffee Compounds Shows Insulin-Sensitizing and Hepatoprotective Effects in a Rat Model of Diet-Induced Metabolic Syndrome', ['Pedram Shokouh', 'Per Bendix  Jeppesen', 'Kjeld Hermansen', 'Natalja Nrskov', 'Christoffer Laustsen', 'Stephen Jacques Hamilton-Dutoit', 'Haiyun Qi', 'Hans Stdkilde-Jrgensen', 'Sren Gregersen'], u'October 27 2017', u'Since coffee has been shown to influence positively the metabolism of subjects with metabolic syndrome (MetS), we aimed to evaluate the short- and long-term effects of a coffee-based supplement on different features of diet-induced MetS. 24 Sprague Dawley rats were divided into control or nutraceuticals groups to receive a high-fat/high fructose diet with or without a mixture of caffeic acid (30 mg/day), trigonelline (20 mg/day), and cafestol (1 mg/day) for 12 weeks. An additional 11 rats were assigned to an acute crossover study. In the chronic experiment, nutraceuticals did not alter body weight or glycemic control but improved fed hyperinsulinemia and HOMA-IR, and plasma adiponectin levels. The impact of nutraceuticals on post-prandial glycemia tended to be more pronounced after acute administration than at the end of the chronic study. Circulating and intrahepatocellular alanine transaminase activity, assessed by hyperpolarized-13C NMR spectroscopy, were reduced by coffee nutraceuticals at endpoint. There was also a tendency towards lower liver triglyceride content and histological steatosis score in the intervention group. In conclusion, a mixture of coffee nutraceuticals improved insulin sensitivity and exhibited hepatoprotective effects in a rat model of MetS. Higher dosages with or without caffeine deserve to be studied in the future.', u'/manuscript/201710.0164/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'An opportunistic Pathogen Afforded Ample Opportunities: Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus', ['Ian M. Mackay', 'Katherine E. Arden'], u'October 27 2017', u'The human coronaviruses (CoV) include HCoV-229E, HCoV-OC43, HCoV-NL63 and HCoV-HKU1, some known for decades. The severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) CoV briefly emerged into the human population but was controlled. In 2012 another novel severely human pathogenic CoV \u2013 Middle Eastern Respiratory Syndrome (MERS)-CoV was identified in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, where 80% of over 2,000 human cases have been recorded across five years. Targeted research remains key to developing control strategies for MERS-CoV, a cause of mild illness in its camel reservoir. A new therapeutic toolbox being developed in response to MERS is also teaching us more about how CoVs cause disease. Travel-related cases continue to challenge the world\u2019s surveillance and response capabilities and more data are needed to understand unexplained primary transmission. Signs of genetic change have been recorded but it remains unclear whether any impact on clinical disease. How camels came to carry the virus remains academic to the control of MERS. To date, human-to-human transmission has been inefficient, but virus surveillance, characterisation and reporting are key to responding to any future change. MERS-CoV is not currently a pandemic threat; it is spread mainly with the aid of human habit and error.', u'/manuscript/201710.0168/v1', [u'Virology'], []]
[u'Prebiotic Dietary Fiber and Gut Health: Comparing the In Vitro Fermentations of Beta-Glucan, Inulin and Xylooligosaccharide.', ['Justin L. Caelson', 'Jennifer M. Erickson', 'Julie M. Hess', 'Trevor J. Gould', 'Joanne L. Slavin'], u'October 27 2017', u'Prebiotic dietary fiber supplements are commonly consumed to help meet fiber recommendations and improve gastrointestinal health by stimulating beneficial bacteria and the production of short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), molecules beneficial to host health. The objective of this research project was to compare potential prebiotic effects and fermentability of five commonly consumed fibers using an in vitro fermentation system measuring changes in fecal microbiota, total gas production and formation of common SCFAs. Fecal donations were collected from three healthy volunteers. Materials analyzed included: pure beta-glucan, Oatwell (commercially available oat-bran containing 22% oat \u03b2-glucan), xylooligosaccharides (XOS), WholeFiber (dried chicory root containing inulin, pectin, and hemi/celluloses), and pure inulin. Oatwell had the highest production of propionate at 12 h (4.76 \u03bcmol/mL) compared to inulin, WholeFiber and XOS samples (p<0.03). Oatwell\u2019s effect was similar to those of the pure beta-glucan samples, both samples promoted the highest mean propionate production at 24 h. XOS resulted in a significant increase in the genus Bifidobacterium after 24 h of fermentation (0 h: 0.67 OTUs; 24 h: 5.22 OTUs; p = 0.038). Inulin and WholeFiber increased the beneficial genus Collinsella, consistent with findings in clinical studies. All analyzed compounds were fermentable and promoted the formation of beneficial SCFAs.', u'/manuscript/201710.0171/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'A Longitudinal Approach to Biological Psychiatric Research: The PsyCourse Study', ['Monika Budde', 'Heike Anderson-Schmidt', 'Katrin Gade', 'Daniela Reich-Erkelenz', 'Kristina Adorjan', 'Janos L. Kalman', 'Fanny Senner', 'Sergi Papiol', 'Till F. M. Andlauer', 'Ashley L. Comes', 'Eva C. Schulte', 'Farah Klohn-Saghatolislam ', 'Anna Gryaznova', 'Maria Hake', 'Kim Bartholdi', 'Laura Flatau', 'Markus Reitt', 'Silke Quast', 'Sophia Stegmaier', 'Milena Meyers', 'Barbara Emons', 'Ida Sybille Hauleiter', 'Georg Juckel', 'Vanessa Nieratschker', 'Udo Dannlowski', 'Max Schmau', 'Jorg Zimmermann', 'Jens Reimer', 'Sybille Schulz', 'Jens Wiltfang', 'Eva Reininghaus', 'Ion-George Anghelescu', 'Volker Arolt', 'Bernhard T. Baune', 'Carsten Konrad', 'Andreas Thiel', 'Andreas J. Fallgatter', 'Christian  Figge', 'Martin von Hagen', 'Manfred Koller', 'Fabian U. Lang', 'Moritz E. Wigand', 'Thomas Becker', 'Markus Jager', 'Detlef E. Dietrich', 'Sebastian Stierl', 'Harald Scherk', 'Carsten Spitzer', 'Here Folkerts', 'Stephanie H. Witt', 'Franziska Degenhardt', 'Andreas J. Forstner', 'Marcella Rietschel', 'Markus M. Nothen', 'Peter Falkai', 'Thomas G. Schulze', 'Urs Heilbronner'], u'October 27 2017', u'In current diagnostic systems, schizophrenia and bipolar disorder are still conceptualized as distinct categorical entities. Recently, both clinical and genetic evidence have challenged this Kraepelinian dichotomy. There are only few longitudinal studies addressing the potential overlaps between these conditions. Here, we present design and first results of the PsyCourse study, an ongoing transdiagnostic study of the affective-to-psychotic continuum that combines longitudinal deep phenotyping and dimensional assessment of psychopathology with an extensive collection of biomaterial. Within the DSM-IV framework, we compare two broad diagnostic groups: one consisting of predominantly affective and one of predominantly psychotic disorders. Depressive, manic, and psychotic symptoms as well as global functioning over time were analyzed. Furthermore, we explore the effects of polygenic risk scores for schizophrenia on diagnostic group membership and address their effects on non-participation in follow-up visits. While phenotypic results show differences in both current psychotic and manic symptoms, depressive symptoms did not vary between both groups. Polygenic risk scores for schizophrenia significantly explained part of the variability of the diagnostic group. Furthermore, there was a trend that a higher polygenic loading for schizophrenia was associated with attrition. Because of its unique properties, the PsyCourse study presents a prime resource for the interrogation of complex genotype-phenotype relationships.', u'/manuscript/201710.0169/v1', [u'Psychiatry & Mental Health studies'], []]
[u"Low Levels of IgG Recognizing the Alpha-1-Antitrypsin (A1AT) 50-63 Peptide and Its Association with Taiwanese Women with Primary Sj\xf6gren's Syndrome", ['Yu-Sheng Chang', 'Chih-Hong Pan', 'Che-Chang Chang', 'Kai-Leun Tsai', 'Han-Wen Chou', 'Jin-Hua Chen', 'Sheng-Hong Lin', 'Yi-Ying Lu', 'Chih-Chun Tai', 'Yi-Fang Lin', 'Ching-Yu Lin'], u'October 30 2017', u"The aim of this study was to examine oxidative stress and low level of alpha-1-antitrypsin (A1AT) in primary Sj\xf6gren's syndrome (pSS), and evaluate the associated autoreactivity against unmodified and their 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (HNE)-modified peptides with pSS. Two differentially expressed proteins, alpha-1-acid glycoprotein 1 (A1AG1) and A1AT, exhibited 2-fold differences, and their HNE modifications were identified by depleted-albumin and immunoglobulin G (IgG) serum protein, in-solution digestion, in-gel digestion, and nano-LC-MS/MS from pSS patients and age-matched healthy controls (HCs). Furthermore, levels of proteins, confirmation of HNE modifications, HNE-protein adducts and autoreactivity against unmodified and their HNE-modified peptides were further validated. Levels of the HNE-protein adduct and A1AG1 were significantly higher in pSS patients than HCs, but levels of A1AT were significantly lower in pSS patients compared to HCs. Only the HNE modification of A1AT was confirmed. Further, concentrations of anti-A1AT50-63 IgG and anti-A1AT50-63 HNE IgA were significantly lower in pSS patients than HCs. Our study suggests that elevated HNE-protein adduct, oxidative stress, level [odds ratio (OR) 4.877, p = 0.003], lowered A1AT level (OR 3.910, p = 0.010) and a decreased level of anti-A1AT50-63 IgG (OR 3.360, p = 0.010) showed an increased risk in pSS patients compared to HCs, respectively.", u'/manuscript/201710.0180/v1', [u'Immunology'], []]
[u'Antifungal Activity and Action Mode of Cuminic Acid from the Seed of Cuminum cyminum. L against Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. Niveum (FON) on Watermelon', ['Yang Sun', 'Yong Wang', 'Lirong Han', 'Xing Zhang', 'Juntao Feng'], u'October 30 2017', u'Watermelon fusarium wilt caused by Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. niveum (FON) is a destructive soil-borne disease throughout the world leading to serious economic losses and limit watermelon production. Cuminic acid, extracted from the seed of Cuminum cyminum L., belongs to benzoic acid analogues. In this study, the median effective concentration (EC50) values for cuminic acid in inhibiting mycelial growth of FON was 22.53\u03bcg/mL. After treatment with cuminic acid, mycelial morphology was seriously influenced; cell membrane permeability and glycerol content were increased markedly, but pigment and mycotoxin (mainly fusaric acid) were significantly decreased. Synthesis genes of bikaverin and fusaric acid both were down regulated compared with the control confirmed by quantitative RT-PCR. In greenhouse experiments, cuminic acid at all concentrations displayed significant bioactivities against FON. Importantly, significant enhancement of activities of SOD, POD, CAT and decrease of MDA content after cuminic acid treatment in watermelon leaves were observed in vivo. These indicated that cuminic acid not only showed high antifungal activity, but also could enhance the self-defense system of the host plant. Above all, cuminic acid showed the potential as a biofungicide to control FON.', u'/manuscript/201710.0184/v1', [u'Agricultural Sciences & Agronomy'], []]
[u'Enhancements of Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi on Growth and Nitrogen Acquisition of Chrysanthemum morifolium under Salt Stress', ['Yanhong Wang', 'Minqiang Wang', 'Yan Li', 'Aiping Wu', 'Juying Huang'], u'October 30 2017', u'The study aimed to investigate the effects of colonization with two arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi, Funneliformis mosseae , Diversispora versiformis , alone and in combination on the growth and nutrient acquisition of NaCl-stressed Chrysanthemum morifolium (Hangbaiju) plants in the greenhouse experiment. Mycorrhizal and non-mycorrhizal Hangbaiju plants were grown under different salinity levels imposed by 0, 50 and 200 mM NaCl for five months, following 6 weeks of non-saline pre-treatment. The results showed that root length, shoot and root dry weight, total dry weight, shoot and root N concentration were higher in mycorrhizal than in non-mycorrhizal plants under moderate saline conditions especially with D. versiformis colonization. As salinity increased, the mycorrhizal colonization, the mycorrhizal dependence (MD) decreased. Enhancement of tissue N acquisition is probably the main mechanism underlying salt tolerance in AM plants. It is suggested that the symbiotic associations between D. versiformis fungus and C. morifolium plants may be taken as a biotechnological practice in culture.', u'/manuscript/201710.0183/v1', [u'Ecology'], []]
[u'Epigenomics of Plant\u2019s Responses to Environmental Stress', ['Suresh Kumar'], u'October 30 2017', u'Genome-wide epigenetic changes in plants are being reported during the development and environmental stresses, which are often correlated with gene expression at the transcriptional level. Sum total of the biochemical changes in nuclear DNA, post-translational modifications in histone proteins and variations in the biogenesis of small non-coding RNAs in a cell is known as epigenome. These changes are often responsible for variation in expression of the gene without any change in the underlying nucleotide sequence. The changes might also cause variation in chromatin structure resulting into the changes in function/activity of the genome. The epigenomic changes are dynamic with respect to the endogenous and/or environmental stimuli which affect phenotypic plasticity of the organism. Both, the epigenetic changes and variation in gene expression might return to the pre-stress state soon after withdrawal of the stress. However, a part of the epigenetic changes may be retained which is reported to play role in acclimatization, adaptation as well as in the evolutionary processes. Understanding epigenome-engineering for improved stress tolerance in plants has become essential for better utilization of the genetic factors. This review delineates the importance of epigenomics towards possible improvement of plant\u2019s responses to environmental stresses for climate resilient agriculture.', u'/manuscript/201710.0185/v1', [u'Biochemistry'], []]
[u'Mast Cells Interact with Endothelial Cells to Accelerate In Vitro Angiogenesis', ['Devandir Antonio de Souza Junior', 'Vivian Marino Mazucato', 'Ana Carolina Santana', 'Constance Oliver', 'Maria Celia Jamur'], u'October 31 2017', u'Angiogenesis is a complex process that involves interactions between endothelial cells and various other cell types as well as the tissue microenvironment. Several previous studies have demonstrated that mast cells accumulate at angiogenic sites. In spite of the evidence suggesting a relationship between mast cells and angiogenesis, the association of mast cells and endothelial cells remains poorly understood. The present study aims to investigate the relationship between mast cells and endothelial cells during in vitro angiogenesis. When endothelial cells were co-cultured with mast cells, angiogenesis was stimulated. Furthermore, there was direct intercellular communication\xa0via\xa0gap junctions between the two cell types. In addition, the presence of mast cells stimulated endothelial cells to release angiogenic factors. Moreover, conditioned medium from the co-cultures also stimulated in vitro angiogenesis. The results from this investigation demonstrate that mast cells have both direct and indirect proangiogenic effects and provide new insights into the role of mast cells in angiogenesis.', u'/manuscript/201710.0190/v1', [u'Cell & Developmental Biology'], []]
[u'Impact of Optimized Protein in Infant Formula on the Metabolic and Nutritional Health in Infants: Systematic Review with Meta-Analysis', ['Pedro Gutierrez-Castrellon', 'Javier Luna-Carrasco', 'Anahi Anzo-Osorio', 'Luisa Diaz Garcia', 'Salvador Villalpando-carrion', 'Gabriel Lopez-Velazquez', 'Carlos Jimenez-Gutierrez'], u'October 31 2017', u'Background. Increasing evidence demonstrate that concentration of protein in infant formula >1.9g/100Kcal with high levels of insulinogenic aminoacids is associated with accelerated weight gain, increased fat mass accumulation and risk of adiposity. Purpose of this study was to conduct a systematic review to determine the metabolic effects in infants feed with infant formula optimized in protein. Methods. Systematic review was conducted according PRISMA Statement. RCTs with one intervention group (infant formula with 1.6-1.9gr of protein/100Kcal) and at least one comparative control group (infant formula with >1.9gr of protein/100Kcal) were included. Standardized mean differences (SMD), through random model were calculated. Results. 15 RCT were included. Optimized protein in infant formula was associated with less gain of BMI at 24 months of follow-up (SMD -0.25, IC95% -0.36 to -0.13, p 0.01) and less fat mass accumulation (SMD -0.68, IC95% -0.98 to -0.37, p 0.01). Optimized protein was also associated to less gain of weight, weight/age Z-score, weight/length Z-score, BUN (mmol/dL) and IGF\uf02d1 (ng/ml). No effect on length/age Z-score was observed. Conclusions. Robust evidence showed optimized protein (1.6gr/100Kcal to 1.9gr/100Kcal) in infant formula is associated with metabolic benefits in infants with less weight gain, BMI and fat mass accumulation.', u'/manuscript/201710.0195/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'Airway Mucus and Asthma: The Role of MUC5AC and MUC5B', ['Luke R. Bonser', 'David J. Erle'], u'November 1 2017', u'Asthma is characterized by mucus abnormalities. Airway epithelial metaplasia results in changes in stored and secreted mucin and the production of a pathologic mucus gel. Mucus transport is impaired culminating in mucus plugging and airway obstruction, a major cause of morbidity in asthma. The polymeric mucins MUC5AC and MUC5B are integral components of airway mucus. MUC5AC and MUC5B gene expression is altered in asthma and recent work sheds light on their contribution to asthma pathogenesis. Herein we review our current understanding of the role of MUC5AC and MUC5B in mucus dysfunction in asthma.', u'/manuscript/201711.0010/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Revealing ETC-1922159 Affected Unknown 3rd Order Combinations of DNA Repair & Genomic Stability Factor RAD51 Family, in Silico', ['shriprakash sinha'], u'November 1 2017', u"DNA repair helps in maintaining the proper and healthy functioning for the cells in the human body. Failure in DNA repair process can lead to aberrations as well as tumorous stages. There are various types of damages that a DNA can go through, one of which is the DNA double strand breaks (DSB) that can be repaired via homologous recombination (HR). RAD51 plays a central role in HR and has been implicated as a negative/poor prognostic marker for colorectal adenocarcinoma, with high expression in colorectal cancer. Mechanistically, RAD51AP1 facilitates RAD51 during the repairing process by binding with RAD51 via two DNA binding sites, thus helping in the D-loop formation in the HR process. Often, in biology, we are faced with the problem of exploring relevant unknown biological hypotheses in the form of myriads of combination of factors that might be affecting the pathway under certain conditions. For example, RAD51AP1-XRCC2 is one such 2nd order combination whose relation needs to be tested under the influence recently developed Porcupine-WNT inhibitor ETC-1922159. The x-ray repair cross complementing XRCC family is known to work as a mediator or stabilizer for RAD51 during the HR process. The inhibitor is known to suppress Porcupine and thus inhibit a range of oncogenes known to be directly or indirectly affected by the Wnts. In a recent unpublished work in bioRxiv, we had the opportunity to rank these unknown biological hypotheses for down regulated genes at 2nd order level after the drug was administered. The in silico observations showed that the combination of RAD51AP1-XRCC2 was assigned a relatively lower rank, thus validating the pipeline's efficacy with the confirmed wet lab experiment that indicate that both RAD51AP1 and XRCC2 were down regulated after treatment in cancer cells. Here, we take one step further by in silico analysis of the 3rd order combinations of RAD51-X-X & RAD51AP1-X-X (X can be known or unknown factor), from a range of 100 randomly picked down regulated genes after ETC-1922159 treatment. The pipeline uses the density based HSIC (Hibert Schmidth Information Criterion) sensitivity index with an rbf (radial basis function) kernel, which is known to be highly effective in sensitivity analysis. Various unknown/unexplored/untested RAD51/RAD51AP1 related 3rd order biological hypotheses emerge some of which are confirmed in wet lab, while others need to be tested.", u'/manuscript/201711.0008/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], []]
[u'Subcellular Trafficking of the Papillomavirus Genome during Initial Infection: The Remarkable Abilities of Minor Capsid Protein L2', ['Samuel K. Campos'], u'November 1 2017', u'Beginning in 2012, our understanding of human papillomavirus (HPV) subcellular trafficking has undergone a drastic paradigm shift. Work from multiple laboratories has revealed that HPV has evolved a unique means to deliver its viral genome (vDNA) to the cell nucleus, relying on a myriad of host cell proteins and processes. The major breakthrough finding from these recent endeavors was the realization of L2-dependent utilization of cellular sorting factors for the retrograde transport of vDNA away from degradative endo/lysosomal compartments to the Golgi, prior to mitosis-dependent nuclear accumulation of L2/vDNA. An overview of current models of HPV entry, subcellular trafficking, and the role of L2 during initial infection is provided below, highlighting unresolved questions and gaps in knowledge.', u'/manuscript/201711.0007/v1', [u'Virology'], []]
[u'Application of Virus-Derived Small Interfering RNAs (vsiRNAs) in Rice Viruses with Insect Vectors, Especially Rice Grassy Stunt Virus', ['Muhammad Arif', 'Saif Ul Islam', 'Muhammad Adnan', 'Muhammad Anwar', 'Zujian Wu'], u'November 2 2017', u'Rice grassy stunt virus (RGSV) a member of Tenuivirus family, is very potent and destructive which effects rice crop in many countries, particularly China. Non coding RNAs have important functions in development and epigenetic regulation of gene expression in numerous organsisms. There is three type of small non coding RNAs have been found in eukaryotes, which are small interferring RNAs (siRNAs), microRNAs (miRNAs) and piwi interacting RNAs (piRNAs). Small RNAs (sRNAs) origination is from the infecting virus which is known as virus-derived small interfering RNAs (vsiRNAs), has responsibility for RNA silencing in plants. Virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) is mainly dependent on RNA silencing (RNAi). Interestingly, RNA silencing happens in plants during viral infections. RNAi technique showed significant results in Nephotettix cincticeps. RNAi technique demonstrated the gene silencing of planthopper Nilaparvata lugens. The proteins P5, pcf4, Dnj, psn5, and pn6 act as potential movement proteins and serve as silencing suppressors for RGSV. VsiRNAs originate from dsRNA molecules which require Dicer-like (DCL) proteins, RNA dependent RNA polymerase (RdRP) proteins, and Argonaute (AGO) proteins. RdRP uses ssRNA for perfect RNA amplification process and can also be used for DCL dependent secondary vsiRNA formation. VSRs interfere with the movement of signals during silencing mechanism. Moreover, intercellular movement of viruses is facilitated by virus-encoded movement protein. RNAi is found in many eukaryotes which are related to transcriptional or post-transcriptional regulation by gene suppression. Transcription is bidirectional in ssDNA viruses which are originated from dsRNA molecules. In this review, we highlighted the biology of Rice grassy stunt virus and its insect vector and its silencing suppressors. This work will be helpful for plant virologists to understand the whole biogenesis mechanism for rice viruses especially RGSV.', u'/manuscript/201711.0015/v1', [u'Plant Sciences'], []]
[u'Thyroid Disrupting Chemicals', ['Valeria Calsolaro', 'Giuseppe Pasqualetti', 'Filippo Niccolai', 'Nadia Caraccio', 'Fabio Monzani'], u'November 3 2017', u'Endocrine disruptor compounds are exogenous agents able to interfere with a gland function, exerting their action across different functional passages, from the synthesis to the metabolism and binding to receptors of the hormone produced. Several issues such as different levels and time of exposure and different action across different ages as well as gender, make the study of endocrine disruptors still a challenge. Thyroid is very sensitive to the action of disruptors, and considering the importance of a correct thyroid function for physical and cognitive functioning, addressing this topic should be considered a priority. In this review we examined the most recent studies, many of them concentrating on maternal and child exposure, conducted to assess the impact of industrial chemicals which showed an impact on thyroid function. So far, the number of studies conducted on that topic is not sufficient to provide solid conclusions and lead to homogeneous guidelines. The lack of uniformity is certainly due to differences in areas and populations examined, the different conditions of exposures and the remarkable inter-subject variability. Nonetheless, the European Commission for Health and Food Safety is implementing recommendations to ensure that substances identified as endocrine disruptors will be withdrawn from the market.', u'/manuscript/201711.0026/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], []]
[u'Genetic Variation of Nitrogen Use Traits Using Maize Expired Plant Variety Protection Germplasm', ['Adriano T. Mastrodomenico', 'C. Cole Hendrix', 'Frederick E. Below'], u'November 4 2017', u'Nitrogen use efficiency (NUE) in maize (Zea mays L.) is an important trait to maximize yield with minimal input of nitrogen (N) fertilizer. Expired Plant Variety Protection (ex-PVP) Act-certified germplasm may be an important genetic resource for public breeding sectors. The objectives of this research were to evaluate the genetic variation of N-use traits and to characterize maize ex-PVP inbreds adapted to the U.S. Corn Belt for NUE performance. Eighty-nine ex-PVP inbreds [36 stiff stalk synthetic (SSS), and 53 non-stiff stalk synthetic (NSSS)] were genotyped using 26,769 single-nucleotide polymorphisms, then 263 single-cross maize hybrids derived from these inbreds were grown in eight environments from 2011 to 2015 at two N fertilizer rates (0 and 252 kg N ha\u22121) and three replications. Genetic utilization and the yield response to N fertilizer were stable across environments and were highly correlated with yield under low and high N conditions, respectively. Cluster analysis identified inbreds with desirable NUE performance. However, only one inbred (PHK56) was ranked in the top 10% for yield under both N-stress and high N conditions. Broad-sense heritability across 12 different N-use traits ranged from 0.11 to 0.77, but was not associated with breeding value accuracy. Nitrogen-stress tolerance was negatively correlated with the yield increase from N fertilizer.', u'/manuscript/201711.0028/v1', [u'Agricultural Sciences & Agronomy'], []]
[u'Freshly Prepared or Reheated? The Effect of Cold Storage and Reheating of Parboiled Rice on Consumer Preference and Acceptability in Auckland, New Zealand', ['Louise Weiwei Lu', 'John Monro', 'Jun Lu', 'Elaine Rush'], u'November 6 2017', u'Background: Previous in vitro and in vivo studies have demonstrated that storage of cooked rice at 4 \xb0C for 24 h and reheating to 65 \xb0C significantly reduced starch digestibility and postprandial glycaemic responses. Moreover, the effect was greater for parboiled rice compared to other rice varieties commonly consumed in New Zealand. This study aimed to evaluate consumer preferences of related sensory attributes and consumer acceptability of several rice varieties freshly cooked or reheated. Method: Sixty-four consumers volunteered and recorded on Visual Analoge Scales their preference and acceptability of freshly prepared or cold-stored and reheated medium grain white, medium grain brown and parboiled rice. Results: All six rice samples were accepted by participants (average 54%). Reheated parboiled rice and reheated medium grain brown rice were both accepted by participants as a preferred staple meal compared to other rice samples. Among all rice samples, the sweetness and the flavour of freshly cooked warm medium-grain white rice were less preferred (scored 42.1% and 45.0% respectively) compared with other samples (P = 0.05). Participants who prepared and consumed brown rice at home regularly (more than 10 times per month), preferred the reheated brown rice (73.8% (67.4, 80.2)) and reheated parboiled rice (74.3% (67.9, 80.7)) (P < 0.001). Conclusions: It is suggested that reheated parboiled rice, with the lowest starch digestibility and glycaemic impact (both in vitro glucose release and in vivo glucose response) could be accepted as a healthier alternative for the daily staple meal.', u'/manuscript/201711.0036/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Integrative Bioinformatic Analysis of Transcriptomic Data Identifies Conserved Molecular Pathways Underlying Ionizing Radiation-Induced Bystander Effects (RIBE)', ['Constantinos Yeles', 'Efstathios-Iason Vlachavas', 'Olga Papadodima', 'Eleftherios Pilalis', 'Constantinos E. Vorgias', 'Alexandros G. Georgakilas', 'Aristotelis Chatziioannou'], u'November 6 2017', u'Ionizing radiation-induced bystander effects (RIBE) encompass a number of effects with potential for a plethora of damages in adjacent non-irradiated tissue. The cascade of molecular events is initiated in response to the exposure to ionizing radiation (IR), something that may occur during diagnostic or therapeutic medical applications. In order to better investigate these complex response mechanisms, we employed a unified framework integrating statistical microarray analysis, signal normalization and translational bioinformatics functional analysis techniques. This approach was applied to several microarray datasets from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) related to RIBE. The analysis produced lists of differentially expressed genes, contrasting bystander and irradiated samples versus sham-irradiated controls. Furthermore, comparative molecular analysis through BioInfoMiner, which integrates advanced statistical enrichment and prioritization methodologies, revealed discrete biological processes, at the cellular level. For example, negative regulation of growth, cellular response to Zn2+- Cd2+, Wnt and NIK/NF-kappaB signalling, which refine the description of the phenotypic landscape of RIBE. Our results provide a more solid understanding of RIBE cell-specific response patterns, especially in the case of high-LET radiations like \u03b1-particles and carbon-ions.', u'/manuscript/201711.0041/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], []]
[u'Phospholipids of Animal and Marine Origin: Structure, Function, and Anti-Inflammatory Properties', ['Ronan Lordan', 'Alexandros Tsoupras', 'Ioannis Zabetakis'], u'November 6 2017', u'In this review paper, the latest literature on the functional properties of phospholipids in relation to inflammation and inflammation-related disorders has been critically appraised and evaluated. The paper is divided into three sections: Section one addresses the relationship between the anti-inflammatory bioactivities of different phospholipids in relation to their structures and compositions. Sections two and three are dedicated to the structures, functions and anti-inflammatory properties of dietary phospholipids from animal and marine sources. Most of the dietary phospholipids of animal origin come from meat, egg and dairy products. To date, there is very limited work published on meat phospholipids, undoubtedly due to the negative perception that meat consumption is an unhealthy option due to its putative associations with several chronic diseases. These assumptions are addressed with respect to the phospholipid composition of meat products. Recent research trends indicate that dairy phospholipids possess anti-inflammatory properties, which has led to an increased interest into their molecular structures and reputed health benefits. Finally, the structural composition of phospholipids of marine origin is discussed. Extensive research has been published in relation to \u03c9-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) and inflammation, however this research has recently come under scrutiny and has proved to be unreliable and controversial in terms of the therapeutic effects of \u03c9-3 PUFA, which are generally in the form of triglycerides and esters. Therefore, this review focuses on recent publications concerning marine phospholipids and their structural composition and related health benefits. Finally, the strong nutritional value of dietary phospholipids are highlighted with respect to marine and animal origin and avenues for future research are discussed.', u'/manuscript/201711.0038/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'The Importance of the Circadian Clock in Regulating Plant Metabolism', ['Jin A Kim', 'Hyun-Soon Kim', 'Seo-hwa Choi', 'Ji-Young Jang', 'Mi-Jeong Jeong', 'Soo In Lee'], u'November 7 2017', u'Carbohydrates are the primary energy source for plant development. Plants synthesize sucrose in source organs and transport them to sink organs during plant growth. This metabolism is sensitive to environmental changes in light quantity, quality, and photoperiod. In the daytime, the synthesis of sucrose and starch accumulates, and starch is degraded at nighttime. The circadian clock genes provide plants with information on the daily environmental changes and directly control many developmental processes, which are related to the path of primary metabolites throughout the life cycle. The circadian clock mechanism and processes of metabolism controlled by the circadian rhythm were studied in the model plant Arabidopsis. However, the translation of molecular mechanisms obtained from studies of model plants to crop plants is difficult. Crop plants have specific organs that increase the size or accumulate valuable metabolites by harvestable metabolic components. Human consumers are interested in the regulation and promotion of these agriculturally significant crops. Circadian clock manipulation may suggest various strategies for the growth of food crops in response to climate change and food deficiency.', u'/manuscript/201711.0046/v1', [u'Plant Sciences'], []]
[u'Socioeconomic Indicators of Bamboo Use for Agroforestry Development in the Dry Semi-Deciduous Forest Zone of Ghana', ['Daniel S. Akoto', 'Manfred Denich', 'Samuel T. Partey', 'Frith Oliver', 'Michael Kwaku', 'Alex A. Mensah'], u'November 7 2017', u'Bamboo agroforestry is currently being promoted as a viable land use option to reduce dependence on natural forest for wood fuels in Ghana. To align the design and introduction of bamboo agroforestry in conformity with farmers\u2019 needs, perceptions, skills and local cultural practices, information on its acceptability and adoption potential among farmers is necessary. It is therefore the objective of this study to (1) describe bamboo ethnobotany and (2) assess socioeconomic factors that affect the acceptability and adoption of bamboo and its integration into farming practices. Accordingly, information has been collected from 200 farmers in the dry semi-deciduous forest zone of Ghana. The study identified the socioeconomic risks and uncertainties as well as biophysical factors that are likely to influence the potential adoption of bamboo agroforestry in the study region. Gender, age, farmers\u2019 known uses of bamboo, the practice of leaving trees on farmlands, farmers\u2019 networking and access to extension services, land availability and ownership by farmers were identified as suitable predictor variables for the adoption of bamboo agroforestry. It is envisaged that bamboo agroforestry is a good bet in the DSFZ though there is the need to explore domestic energy (fuelwood) provision and substitution potential in order to have a broader picture of the technology.', u'/manuscript/201711.0045/v1', [u'Agricultural Sciences & Agronomy'], []]
[u'Magnetic Marking and Intraoperative Detection of Primary Draining Lymph Nodes in High-Risk Prostate Cancer Using Superparamagnetic Iron Oxide Nanoparticles: Additional Diagnostic Value?', ['Alexander Winter', 'Svenja Engels', 'Lena Reinhardt', 'Clara Wasylow', 'Holger Gerullis', 'Friedhelm Wawroschek'], u'November 7 2017', u'Sentinel lymph node dissection (sLND) using a magnetometer and superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles (SPIONs) as a tracer was successfully applied in prostate cancer (PCa). Radioisotope-guided sLND combined with extended pelvic LND (ePLND) achieved better node removal, increasing the number of affected nodes or the detection of sentinel lymph nodes outside the established ePLND template. We determined the diagnostic value of additional magnetometer-guided sLND after intraprostatic SPION-injection in high-risk PCa. This retrospective study included 104 high-risk PCa patients (PSA >20 ng/ml and/or Gleason score \u22658 and/or cT2c) from a prospective cohort who underwent radical prostatectomy with magnetometer-guided sLND and ePLND. The diagnostic accuracy of sLND was assessed using ePLND as a reference standard. Lymph node metastases were found in 61 of 104 patients (58.7%). sLND had a 100% diagnostic rate, 96.6% sensitivity, 95.6% specificity, 96.6% positive predictive value, 95.6% negative predictive value, 3.4% false negative rate, and 4.4% false positive rate (detecting lymph node metastases outside the ePLND template). These findings demonstrate the high sensitivity and additional diagnostic value of magnetometer-guided sLND, exceeding that of ePLND through the individualized extension of PLND or the detection of sentinel lymph nodes / lymph node metastases outside the established node template in high-risk PCa.', u'/manuscript/201711.0043/v1', [u'Urology'], []]
[u'Heterogeneity and Its Impact on Rehabilitation Outcomes and Interventions for Community Reintegration in People with Spinal Cord Injuries', ['Shikha Gupta'], u'November 8 2017', u'Evidence is lacking about the most effective interventions for community reintegration to meet the wellness needs for people living with spinal cord injuries (SCI). One among various reasons for the limited literature on effective interventions for community reintegration for people with SCI is the heterogeneity that represent this population. Heterogeneity manifested by individuals\u2019 injury as well as personal characteristics has significant implications for SCI rehabilitation practice, specifically directed towards community reintegration, a key goal of rehabilitation interventions for people with disabilities. Therefore, this paper aims to present evidence on effect of heterogeneity in SCI population on rehabilitation outcomes and discuss the relevance of this heterogeneity to rehabilitation interventions directed at community reintegration. Available literature suggests that an array of injury-related, personal, social and environmental factors predict various rehabilitation outcomes that affect community reintegration, participation, life satisfaction, and overall quality of life of people with SCI. Therefore, approaches directed at community reintegration should involve components of physical, psychosocial, and vocational rehabilitation while considering personal and societal aspects of an individual\u2019s life. Understanding the heterogeneity will help healthcare professionals to address the needs and concerns of people with SCI in a holistic but unique way, and help them achieve a satisfying life that they desire.', u'/manuscript/201711.0048/v1', [u'Nursing & Health Studies'], []]
[u'Exploring the Glycans of Euglena Gracilis', ["Ellis C. O'Neill", 'Sakonwan Kuhaudomlarp', 'Martin Rejzek', 'Jonatan U. Fangel', 'Kathirvel Alagesan', 'Daniel Kolarich', 'William G. T. Willats', 'Robert A. Field'], u'November 8 2017', u'Euglena gracilis is an alga of great biotechnological interest and extensive metabolic capacity, able to make high levels of bioactive compounds, such as polyunsaturated fatty acids, vitamins and \u03b2-glucan. Previous work has shown that Euglena expresses a wide range of carbohydrate-active enzymes, suggesting an unexpectedly high capacity for the synthesis of complex carbohydrates for a single celled organism. Here we present an analysis of some of the carbohydrates synthesised by Euglena gracilis. Analysis of the sugar nucleotide pool showed that there are the substrates necessary for synthesis of complex polysaccharides, including the unusual sugar galactofuranose. Lectin- and antibody-based profiling of whole cells and extracted carbohydrates revealed a complex galactan, xylan and aminosugar based surface. Protein N-glycan profiling, however, indicated that just simple high mannose-type glycans are present and that they are partially modified with putative aminoethylphosphonate moieties. Together, these data indicate that Euglena possesses a complex glycan surface, unrelated to plant cell walls, while its\u2019 protein glycosylation is simple. Taken together, these findings suggest that Euglena gracilis may lend itself to production of pharmaceutical glycoproteins.', u'/manuscript/201711.0051/v1', [u'Biochemistry'], []]
[u'The Effect of a Diet Moderately High in Protein and Fiber on Insulin Sensitivity Measured Using the Dynamic Insulin Sensitivity and Secretion Test (DISST)', ['Lisa Te Morenga', 'Paul Docherty', 'Sheila Williams', 'Jim Mann'], u'November 8 2017', u'Evidence shows that weightloss improves insulin sensitivity but few studies have examined the effect of macronutrient composition independently of weight loss on direct measures of insulin sensitivity. We randomised 89 overweight or obese women to either a standard diet (StdD) that was intended to be low in fat and relatively high in carbohydrate (n=42) or to a relatively high protein (up to 30% of energy), relatively high fibre (>30g/day) diet (HPHFib) (n=47) for 10 weeks. Advice regarding strict adherence to energy intake goals was not given. Insulin sensitivity and secretion was assessed by a novel method - the Dynamic Insulin Sensitivity and Secretion Test (DISST). Although there were significant improvements in body composition and most cardiometabolic risk factors on HPHFib, insulin sensitivity was reduced by 19.3% (95% CI: 31.8, 4.5%; p=0.013) in comparison with StdD. We conclude that the reduction in insulin sensitivity after a diet relatively high in both protein and fibre, despite cardiometabolic improvements, suggests insulin sensitivity may reflect metabolic adaptations to dietary composition for maintenance of glucose homeostasis, rather than impaired metabolism.', u'/manuscript/201711.0055/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'Impact of Methods on the Measurement of mRNA Turnover', ['Takeo Wada', 'Attila Becskei'], u'November 9 2017', u'The turnover of the RNA molecules is determined by the rates of transcription and RNA degradation. Several methods have been developed to study mRNA turnover since the beginnings of molecular biology. Here we summarize the main methods to measure RNA half-life: transcription inhibition, gene control and metabolic labelling. These methods were used to detect the cellular activity of the mRNAs degradation machinery, including the exo-ribonuclease Xrn1 and the exosome. Less progress has been made in the study of the differential stability of mature RNAs because the different methods have often yielded inconsistent results so that an mRNA considered to be stable can be classified as unstable by another method. Recent advances in the systematic comparison of different method variants in yeast have permitted the identification of the least invasive methodologies that reflect half-lives the most faithfully, which is expected to open the way for a consistent quantitative analysis of the determinants of mRNA stability.', u'/manuscript/201711.0057/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], []]
[u'Salivary Oxytocin Concentration Changes during a Group Drumming Intervention for Maltreated School Children', ['Teruko Yuhi', 'Hiroaki Kyuta', 'Hisa-aki Mori', 'Chihiro Murakami', 'Kazumi Furuhara', 'Mari Okuno', 'Masaki Takahashi', 'Daikei Fuji', 'Haruhiro Higashida'], u'November 9 2017', u'Many emotionally disturbed children who have been maltreated and are legally separated from their parents or primary caregivers live in group homes and receive compulsory education. Such institutions provide various special intervention programs. Taiko, a Japanese style of group drumming, is one such program because playing drums in a group may improve children\u2019s emotional well-being. However, evidence for its efficacy has not been well established at the biological level. In this study, we measured salivary levels of oxytocin (OT), a neuropeptide associated with social memory and communication, in three conditions (recital, practice, and free sessions) in four classes of school-aged children. Following the sessions, OT concentrations showed changes in various degrees and directions (no change, increases, or decreases). However, the mean OT concentration changes after each session increased, ranging from 112% to 165%. Plasma OT concentrations were equally sensitive to drum playing in school-aged boys and girls. However, the difference between practice and free play sessions was only significant among elementary school boys aged 8-12 years. The results suggest that younger boys are most responsive to this type of educational music intervention.', u'/manuscript/201711.0061/v1', [u'Psychiatry & Mental Health studies'], []]
[u'Association between Malnutrition and Hospital Mortality and Duration of Intensive Care Unit Admission in the Critically Ill: A Prospective Cohort Study', ['Charles Chin Han Lew', 'Gabriel Jun Yung Wong', 'Ka Po Cheung', 'Ai Ping Chua', 'Mary Foong Fong Chong', 'Michelle Miller'], u'November 10 2017', u'There is limited evidence for the association between malnutrition and hospital mortality as well as Intensive Care Unit length-of-stay (ICU-LOS) in critically ill patients. We aimed to examine the aforementioned associations by conducting a prospective cohort study in an ICU of a Singapore tertiary hospital. Between August 2015 and October 2016, all adult patients with \u226524 h of ICU-LOS were included. The 7-point Subjective Global Assessment (7-point SGA) was used to determine patients\u2019 nutritional status within 48 hours of ICU admission. Multivariate analyses were conducted in two ways: 1) presence versus absence of malnutrition, and 2) dose-dependent association for each 1-point decrease in the 7-point SGA. There were 439 patients of which 28.0% were malnourished, and 29.6% died before hospital discharge. Malnutrition was associated with an increased risk of hospital mortality [adjusted-RR 1.39 (95%CI: 1.10\u20131.76)], and this risk increased with a greater degree of malnutrition [adjusted-RR 1.09 (95%CI: 1.01\u20131.18) for each 1-point decrease in the 7-point SGA]. No significant association was found between malnutrition and ICU-LOS. Conclusion: There was a clear association between malnutrition and higher hospital mortality in critically ill patients. The association between malnutrition and ICU-LOS could not be replicated and hence requires further evaluation.', u'/manuscript/201711.0066/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'Cryptic Species Diversity of Rice Hopper Parasitoids in Southeast Asia', ['Christina Sann', 'Franziska Wemheuer', 'Alexis Beaurepaire', 'Rolf Daniel', 'silvio Erler', 'Stefan Vidal'], u'November 13 2017', u'On-going intensification of rice production systems in Southeast Asia is causing devastating yield losses each year due to rice hoppers. Continuing development of immunity to resistant rice varieties and pesticide application further complicate this problem. Hence, there is a high demand for biological control agents. Egg parasitoid wasps are among the most important natural enemies of rice hoppers such as Nilaparvata lugens and Nephotettix spp. However, our knowledge on their diversity is still very limited due to their small size and the lack of available morphological information. Classifying these parasitoids is the first step to properly understand their role in the rice agroecosystem. We used traditional morphological identification as well as DNA sequencing of COI and 28S genes to investigate the diversity of four important hopper egg parasitoid genera in the Philippines. Parasitoids of the genera Anagrus spp., Oligosita spp., Gonatocerus spp. and Paracentrobia spp. were collected in eight study landscapes located in Luzon. We found discrepancies between the morphological and the molecular analysis. Morphological and molecular results were only valid for Paracentrobia spp. Anagrus spp. and Gonatocerus spp. showed more genetic diversity, than expected after the morphological analysis, indicating cryptic species. The sequences for Oligosita spp. revealed less variation than expected. This is the first study on molecular diversity of rice parasitoids in the Philippines. More research combining morphological, behavioural and genetic methods as well as the establishment of a comprehensive DNA database is urgently needed to assess the performance and suitability of these organisms as biocontrol agents.', u'/manuscript/201711.0079/v1', [u'Entomology'], []]
[u'Effect of Ammonium Chloride on the Methane-Oxidizing Bacterial Community', ['I Tae Kim', 'Kwangho Ahn', 'Yeong Seok Yoo', 'Kwang Soo Kim'], u'November 13 2017', u'We analyzed the utility of ammonium chloride (NH4Cl) as a nitrogen source for methanotroph communities. When cultured in nitrate mineral salt (NMS) medium, the methanotroph community we identified four families, seven genera, and 16 type I and type II species of methanotrophs. Among species in the Methylobacter genus, Methylobacter marinus could be actively cultured in NMS medium without NaCl addition. Following the addition of 25 mM NH4Cl, the numbers of the type I genera Methylomonas, Methylococcus, and Methylobacter were increased, whereas the numbers of the type II genera Methylocystis and Methylosinus were decreased after 5 days. In methanotroph communities, certain concentrations of NH4Cl affected methane consumption and growth of methanotrophs at the community level. Compared with other salts, NH4Cl caused a considerable decrease in the methane consumption rate and the expression of soluble methane monooxygenases (sMMOs) but did not inhibit the growth of Methylomonas methanica expressing sMMO. Moreover, this reduced sMMO activity immediately increased again after the addition of formate. When NH4Cl was added as a methanol dehydrogenase inhibitor, decreased methane consumption occurred at a lower concentration than for NaCl. These results could be attributed to competitive antagonism of MMOs due to their direct involvement in ammonia oxidation.', u'/manuscript/201711.0077/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Genetic Analysis of the Major Capsid Protein of the Archaeal Fusellovirus SSV1: Mutational Flexibility and Conformational Change', ['Eric A. Iverson', 'David A. Goodman', 'Madeline E. Gorchels', 'Kenneth M. STEDMAN'], u'November 14 2017', u'Viruses with spindle or lemon-shaped virions are rare in the world of viruses, but are common in viruses of archaeal extremophiles, possibly due to the extreme conditions in which they thrive. However, the structural and genetic basis for the unique spindle shape is unknown. The best-studied spindle-shaped virus, SSV1, is composed mostly of the major capsid protein VP1. Similar to many other viruses, proteolytic cleavage of VP1 is thought to be critical for virion formation. Unlike half of the genes in SSV1, including the minor capsid protein VP3, the vp1 gene does not tolerate deletion or transposon insertion. In order determine the role of the vp1 gene and its proteolysis for virus function, we developed techniques for site-directed mutagenesis of the SSV1 genome and complemented deletion mutants with vp1 genes from other SSVs. By analyzing these mutants we demonstrate that the N-terminus of the VP1 protein is required, but the N-terminus, or entire SSV1 VP1 protein, can be exchanged with VP1s from other SSVs. However, the conserved glutamate at the cleavage site is not essential. Interestingly, viruses containing point mutations at this position generate mostly abnormal virions.', u'/manuscript/201711.0086/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Gastrointestinal Manifestations of Marfan Syndrome', ['Nashiz Inayet', 'Jamal Hayat', 'Andrew Poullis', 'Maite Tome', 'Ann Child'], u'November 14 2017', u'Symptoms attributed to the gastrointestinal manifestations of multi-system disorders play an important role in the long-term management of these conditions. Gastrointestinal complications of a variety of connective tissue disorders have been studied and there is an increased interest in the incidence and prevalence of these symptoms. Descriptions of the occurrence of gastrointestinal complications in Marfan syndrome have appeared infrequently in the medical literature. In this review article we focus on both structural and functional gastrointestinal pathology that may occur in patients with Marfan syndrome.', u'/manuscript/201711.0081/v1', [u'Gastroenterology'], []]
[u'Tactile Sensors for Measuring Effects of Sight, Movement, and Sound on Handgrip Forces during Hand-Tool Interaction', ['Anil Ufuk  Batmaz', 'M. Amine  Falekh', 'Michel de  Mathelin', 'Birgitta Dresp-Langley'], u'November 15 2017', u'Using tactile sensing to measure grip force variations during hand-tool interaction reveals effects of sensory feed-back signals on individual handgrip forces in surgical simulator training. A biosensor system was designed for recording grip-force signals from different loci of measurement in the palm, the fingers, and the fingertips of the dominant and non-dominant hands of eleven novice surgeons. To test for effects of sound, movement, and sight on grip force signals, subjects had to pick up two tools, then hold them still or move them upwards and downwards for ten seconds while listening to soft or hard musical tones, with their eyes open and blindfolded. We found significant effects of movement, sight, and sound on average maximum peak forces. Stronger grip force signals were recorded from the dominant hand moving the tools. In specific sensor loci in the fingertips, significantly stronger grip forces were recorded in the absence of visual input (blindfolded condition). Grip forces recorded from the palm of the hands were significantly stronger with exposure to hard musical tones. It is concluded that handgrip force is significantly influenced by sensory signals from the auditory and visual sensory modalities. Such interactions could be effectively exploited for guiding simulator training.', u'/manuscript/201711.0093/v1', [u'Biotechnology'], []]
[u'Roles of the Hedgehog Signaling Pathway in Skin Development, Homeostasis and Cancer', ['Yoshinori Abe', 'Nobuyuki Tanaka'], u'November 15 2017', u'The epidermis is the outermost layer of skin and provides a protective barrier against environmental insults. It is a rapidly renewing tissue undergoing constant regeneration, maintained by several types of stem cells. Hedgehog (HH) ligands activate one of the fundamental signaling pathways that contribute to epidermal development, homeostasis and repair. The HH pathway interacts with other signal transduction pathways such as those activated by Wnt and bone morphogenetic protein. Furthermore, aberrant activation of HH signaling is associated with various tumors, including basal cell carcinoma. Therefore, an understanding of the regulatory mechanisms of the HH signaling pathway is important to elucidate fundamental mechanisms underlying both organogenesis and carcinogenesis. In this review, we discuss the role of the HH signaling pathway in skin development, homeostasis and basal cell carcinoma formation, providing an update of current knowledge in this field.', u'/manuscript/201711.0096/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Plants of the Genus Zingiber as Source of Antimicrobial Agents: from Tradition to Pharmacy', ['Mehdi Sharifi-Rad', 'Elena Maria Varoni', 'Bahare Salehi', 'Javad Sharifi-Rad', 'Karl R. Matthews', 'Seyed Abdulmajid Ayatollahi', 'Farzad Kobarfard', 'Salam A. Ibrahim', 'Dima Mnayer', 'Zainul Amiruddin Zakaria', 'Majid Sharifi-Rad', 'Zubaida Yousaf', 'Marcello Iriti', 'Adriana Basile', 'Daniela Rigano'], u'November 16 2017', u'Plants of the genus Zingiber (Family Zingiberaceae) are widely used throughout the world as food and medicinal plants. They represent very popular herbal remedies in various traditional healing systems; in particular, rhizome of Zingiber spp. plants has a long history of ethnobotanical uses because of a plethora of curative properties. Antimicrobial activity of rhizome essential oil has been extensively confirmed in vitro and attributed to its chemical components, mainly consisting in monoterpene and sesquiterpene hydrocarbons such as \u03b1-zingiberene, ar-curcumene, \u03b2-bisabolene and \u03b2-sesquiphellandrene. In addition, gingerols have been identified as the major active components in the fresh rhizome, whereas shogaols, dehydrated gingerol derivatives, are the predominant pungent constituents in dried rhizome. Zingiber spp. may thus represent a promising and innovative source of natural alternatives to chemical food preservatives. This approach would meet the increasing concern of consumers aware of the potential health risks associated with the conventional antimicrobial agents in food. This narrative review aims providing a literature overview on Zingiber spp. plants, their cultivation, traditional uses, phytochemical constituents and biological activities.', u'/manuscript/201711.0102/v1', [u'Plant Sciences'], []]
[u'A Simple Method to Measure Renal Function in Swine by the Plasma Clearance of Iohexol', ['Sergio Luis-Lima', 'Consolacion Garcia-Contreras', 'Marta Vazquez-Gomez', 'Susana Astiz', 'Fabiola Carrara', 'Flavio Gaspari', 'Natalia Negrin-Mena', 'Alejandro Jimenez-Sosa', 'Hugo Jimenez-Hernandez', 'Antonio Gonzalez-Bulnes', 'Esteban Porrini'], u'November 16 2017', u'There is no simple method to measure glomerular filtration rate (GFR) in swine, an established model to study renal disease. We developed a protocol to measure GFR in conscious swine with the plasma clearance of iohexol. We used two groups: testing and validation, of 8 animals each. Ten milliliters of iohexol (6.47 g) were injected by the marginal auricular vein and blood samples (3 ml) were collected from the orbital sinus at different points after injection. GFR was determined considering two models: two-compartments (CL2: all samples) and one-compartment (CL1: the last six samples). In the testing group, CL1 overestimated CL2 by ~30%: CL2=245\xb193 and CL1=308\xb1123 ml/mn. This error was corrected by a first order polynomial quadratic equation to CL1, which was considered the simplified method: SM=-47.909+(1.176xCL1)\u2013(0.00063968xCL12). SM showed narrow limits of agreement with CL2, and a concordance correlation of 0.97 and a total deviation index of 14.73%. Similar results were obtained for the validation group. This protocol is reliable, reproducible, can be performed in conscious animals, uses a single dose of the marker, and requires a reduced number of samples avoiding urine collection. Finally, it portends a significant improvement in animal-welfare conditions and handling necessities in experimental trials.', u'/manuscript/201711.0099/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], []]
[u'Assessing the Effectiveness of a Far-red Fluorescent Reporter for Tracking Stem Cells In Vivo', ['Jing  Zhou ', 'Jack Sharkey', 'Rajeev Shukla', 'Antonius Plagge', 'Patricia Murray'], u'November 16 2017', u'Far-red fluorescent reporter genes can be used for tracking cells non-invasively in vivo using fluorescence imaging. Here, we investigate the effectiveness of the far-red fluorescent protein, E2-Crimson (E2C), for tracking mouse embryonic cells (mESCs) in vivo following subcutaneous administration into mice. Using a knock-in strategy, we introduced E2C into the Rosa26 locus of an E14-Bra-GFP mESC line, and after confirming that the E2C had no obvious effect on the phenotype of the mESCs, we injected them into mice and imaged them over 9 days. The results showed that fluorescence intensity was weak, and cells could only be detected when injected at high densities. Furthermore, intensity peaked on day 4 and then started to decrease, despite the fact that tumour volume continued to increase beyond day 4. Histopathological analysis showed that although E2C fluorescence could barely be detected in vivo at day 9, analysis of frozen sections indicated that all mESCs within the tumours continued to express E2C. We hypothesise that the decrease in fluorescence intensity in vivo was probably due to the fact that the mESC tumours became more vascular with time, thus leading to increased absorbance of E2C fluorescence by haemoglobin. We conclude that the E2C reporter has limited use for tracking cells in vivo, at least when introduced as a single copy into the Rosa26 locus.', u'/manuscript/201711.0110/v1', [u'Biotechnology'], []]
[u'Photosynthesis of Sago Palm (Metroxylon sagu Rottb.) Seedling at Different Air Temperatures', ['Aidil Azhar', 'Daigo Makihara', 'Hitoshi Naito', 'Hiroshi Ehara'], u'November 20 2017', u'Photosynthetic activities of the sago palm (Metroxylon sagu Rottb.) were studied to find out its sensitivity to changes in ambient air temperature. The minimum ambient air temperature designed for the experiment was 25\u201329\u2070C, while the higher end was 29\u201333\u2070C. Several photosynthetic parameters were studied to support our analysis in sago photosynthetic activity, including diurnal leaf gas exchange, assimilation rate vs. CO2 concentration, leaf greenness, leaf chlorophyll content, and photosynthetic rate vs. irradiance. We found that sago palm photosynthetic activity tends to be more sensitive to minimum than to maximum ambient air temperature. The plants exposed to higher air temperatures had dark green leaf color associated with higher rates of diurnal photosynthesis, chlorophyll content, and rubisco limited photosynthetic activity. They also exhibited higher trend in optimum irradiance absorption level. Consequently, maximum light energy dissipation occurred at higher temperatures.', u'/manuscript/201711.0121/v1', [u'Agricultural Sciences & Agronomy'], []]
[u'Almonds and Cardiovascular Health: A Review', ['Soumik Kalita', 'Shweta Khandelwal', 'Jagmeet Madan', 'Himanshu Pandya', 'B. Sesikeran', 'Kamala Krishnaswamy'], u'November 21 2017', u'Background: Several preventive strategies to reduce dyslipidaemia, have been suggested of which dietary modification features as an important one. Addition of almonds in our daily diets has been proposed to beneficially impact the lipid profile. This review critically examines the available evidence assessing the effect of almonds on dyslipidaemia in the South Asian (particularly Indian) context. Methods: An extensive review comprising of epidemiological studies, clinical trials, meta-analyses and systematic reviews was conducted from published literature from across the world. Studies examining the effect of almonds on different aspects of dyslipidaemia viz. high LDL-C, low HDL-C, triglyceridaemia, high total cholesterol levels have been included. Results: Dyslipidaemia is a major risk factor for coronary heart disease and strategies to manage dyslipidaemia have been shown to reduce the incidence of CVD. Although there are proven pharmacological therapies to help manage this condition, there are not many nutritional interventions which can impact dyslipidaemia. Almonds have been shown to reduce LDL-C which is a known risk factor for CHD, in several studies and the effect of almonds has been well documented in systematic reviews and meta-analysis of clinical trials. Conclusions: Addition of almonds in the diet has been shown to not only to reduce LDL-C levels, but also to maintain HDL-C levels. This review informs about the use of this simple nutritional strategy which may help manage known major risk factors for heart disease such as high LDL-C and low HDL-C levels especially in the context of South Asians.', u'/manuscript/201711.0137/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'Characteristics of Refractive Errors in a Population of Adults in the Central Region of Poland', ['Michal S. Nowak', 'Piotr Jurowski', 'Andrzej Grzybowski', 'Janusz Smigielski'], u'November 21 2017', u'Background: To investigate the distribution of refractive errors and their characteristics in older adults. Methods: The study design was cross-sectional study. A total of 1107 men and women were interviewed and underwent detailed ophthalmic examinations, 998 subjects underwent refraction. Myopia was defined as spherical equivalent (SER) refraction \u2264 \u22120.5 dioptres (D) and hyperopia was defined as SER \u2265 +0.5 dioptres (D). Results: Among those who were refracted the distribution of myopia and hyperopia was 24.1% (95% CI 21.4\u201326.7) and 37.5% (95% CI 34.5\u201340.5), respectively. Myopia decreased from 28.7% in subjects aged 35-59 years to 19.3% in those aged 60 years or older and hyperopia increased from 21.8% at 35\u201359 years of age to 53.3% in subjects aged \u226560 years. Multiple regression analysis showed decreasing age (OR 0.98, 95% CI 0.96\u20131.00), female gender (OR 1.87, 95% CI 1.18\u20132.95) and presence of cataract (OR 2.40 , 95% CI 1.24\u20134.63) were independent risk factors associated with myopia. Conclusions: The distribution of refractive errors found in our study is similar to those reported in other Caucasian populations and differs from Asian populations. Myopia was positively associated with younger age, female gender and presence of cataract.', u'/manuscript/201711.0134/v1', [u'Ophthalmology'], []]
[u'Rice Bacterial Endophytes; 16S-Based Taxonomic Profiling, Isolation and Simplified Endophytic Community from Two Venezuelan Cultivars', ['Felix Moronta-Barrios', 'Fabrizia Gionechetti', 'Alberto Pallavicini', 'Edgloris Marys', 'Vittorio Venturi'], u'November 21 2017', u'Rice is currently the most important food crop in the world and we are only just beginning to study the bacterial associated microbiome. It is of importance to perform screenings of the core rice microbiota and also to develop new plant-microbe models and simplified communities for increasing our understanding about the formation and function of its microbiome. In order to begin to address this aspect, we have performed the isolation of bacterial strains from the endorhizosphere of two rice cultivars from Venezuela. The validation of plant-growth promoting bacterial activities in vitro has led us to select and characterize 15 isolates for in planta studies such as germination test, endophytism ability and plant growth promotion. Consequently, a set of 10 isolates was selected for the set-up of an endophytic consortium as a simplified model of the natural rice bacterial endomicrobiota. Upon inoculation, the colonization and abundance of each strain within the rice roots was tracked by a culture-independent technique in gnotobiotic conditions in a 30 days period. Four strains belonging to Pseudomonas, Agrobacterium and Delftia genera have shown a promising capacity for colonizing and coexistence in root tissues. On the other hand, a bacterial community taxonomic profiling of the rhizosphere and the endorhizosphere of both cultivars were obtained and are discussed. This study is part of a growing body of research on core crops microbiome and simplified microbiomes, which strengthens the formation process of the endophytic community leading to a better understanding of the rice microbiome.', u'/manuscript/201711.0135/v1', [u'Microbiology'], []]
[u'Bacterial Analysis of Barbecued Meat (Suya) from Selected Locations within Abuja, Nigeria', ['Olatunbosun O. Alonge', ' Fatima I. Wakkala', 'Chukwuma Ogbaga', 'Kehinde A. Akindele'], u'November 22 2017', u'Barbecued meat, popularly known as \u2018Suya\u2019 in Nigeria, is eaten by most Nigerians. However, the raw meat is sometimes prepared in unhygienic environments. This study examines the possibility of contracting infectious food and water borne diseases as a result of eating microbial contaminated barbecued meat. Meat samples were collected from four locations- Baze University, Kubwa, Lugbe and Maitama within FCT, Abuja, Nigeria. Microbial analysis of the samples showed bacterial contamination of all the barbecued meat sampled from the different locations. These meat samples were contaminated with indicator bacteria such as Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus aureus, Providencia spp, Bacillus spp, and Pseudomonas aeroginosa.Comparative analysis of the total aerobic bacterial count revealed a significantly higher concentration of bacteria in the barbecued meat compared to the raw meat samples. The specific bacteria were on average about 1.5 \u2013 5.9 times higher in the barbecued meat relative to the raw meat samples. This alarming trend was observed in all selected locations.In addition, the bacterial contamination of the barbecued meat sampled from Baze University was significantly lower (6.0 x 105 CFU/g) in comparison to the barbecued meat from the other locations: Lugbe - 31.2 x105 CFU/g, Kubwa - 34.0 x 105 CFU/g and Maitama - 42.6 x 105 CFU/g, with the latter being the most contaminated. The implications of this result in relation to human health and hygiene are discussed.', u'/manuscript/201711.0146/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Comparative Study on the Physicochemical and Bacteriological Quality of Some Drinking Water Sources in Abuja, Nigeria', ['Sadiya Atiku', 'Chukwuma C. Ogbaga', 'Olatunbosun O. Alonge', 'Onyinye F. Nwagbara'], u'November 22 2017', u'Diseases caused by contaminated water consumption and poor hygiene are among the leading cause of death in children, the elderly and people with compromised immune system. The present study aims to assess the drinking water quality of some selected drinking water sources in the chosen study area using water quality index (WQI). Samples of drinking waters were collected from four different sources\u2014river, sachet (packaged), borehole and well in Jabi, Abuja, Nigeria for physicochemical and bacteriological analyses using standard methods. With the exception of pH, river water had the highest content of all the physicochemical parameters examined. Some of the physicochemical parameters such as temperature and pH determined in this study were mostly within the World Health Organization (WHO) standard. The bacteriological analyses revealed that the highest total viable counts of 1.54 (0.12) \xd7 102 (cfu/mL) were obtained in the river sample while the least values of 0.03 (0.00) \xd7 102 (cfu/mL) were obtained in the sachet water. Three bacterial isolates of Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas spp and Aeromonas spp were isolated from well water while Pseudomonas spp and Proteus spp were isolated from borehole water. All other bacteria were isolated from the river. The study demonstrates that the safest drinking water source in Idu district, Jabi, Abuja is the sachet/packaged water while the least safe is the river water due to the presence of significant opportunistic pathogens. The results of this study are beneficial for water quality management and could be used for low-cost effective water quality assessment in Jabi.', u'/manuscript/201711.0144/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'On the Statistical Mechanics of Alien Species Distribution', ['michael G. bowler', 'Colleen K. kelly'], u'November 22 2017', u"Many species of plants are found in regions to which they are alien. Their global distributions are characterised by a family of exponential functions of the kind that arise in elementary statistical mechanics (an example in ecology is MacArthur's broken stick). We show here that all these functions are quantitatively reproduced by a model containing a single parameter \u2013 some global resource partitioned at random on the two axes of species number and site number. A dynamical model generating this equilibrium is a two fold stochastic process and suggests a curious and interesting biological interpretation in terms of niche structures fluctuating with time and productivity; with sites and species highly idiosyncratic. Idiosyncrasy implies that attempts to identify a priori those species likely to become naturalized are unlikely to be successful. Although this paper is primarily concerned with a particular problem in population biology, the two fold stochastic process may be of more general interest.", u'/manuscript/201711.0139/v1', [u'Ecology'], []]
[u'A Comparative Analysis of the Proteins and Lipids in Breast, Leg, and Thigh Meats of a Commercial Domesticated Turkey', ['W. Keith Ray', 'Sherry B. Hildreth', 'Judith M. Jervis', 'Richard F. Helm'], u'November 23 2017', u'A commercially reared domesticated turkey (Meleagris gallopavo) was purchased from a local market and sections of tissue representing leg, thigh, and breast were harvested and processed for analysis of the lipids and proteins present. Leg and thigh tissue was enriched in mitochondrial proteins whereas the breast tissue was enriched in glycolytic enzymes as well as the cytosolic and mitochondrial forms of glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase. A potential marker for breast tissue muscle formation and/or function was also identified. The tissues could clearly be separated based upon their lipid profiles with little differences in cardiolipin levels suggesting that mitochondrial surface areas may be similar across the tissues. The most significant differences in the lipids were found to be higher levels of oxidized lipids in thigh meat. This work provides the first untargeted proteome and lipidome datasets for the domesticated turkey. The proteome dataset is accessible from ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE partner repository with the identifier PXD008207.', u'/manuscript/201711.0147/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Impaired skin barrier due to sebaceous gland atrophy in the latent stage of radiation-induced skin injury: application of non-invasive diagnostic methods', ['Hyosun Jang', 'Hyunwook Myung', 'Janet Lee', 'Jae Kyung Myung', 'Won-Suk Jang', 'Sun-Joo Lee', 'Chang-Hwan Bae', 'Hyewon Kim', 'Sunhoo Park', 'Sehwan Shim'], u'November 23 2017', u'Abstract: Radiation-induced skin injury can be a serious cutaneous damage and have specific characteristics. Asymptomatic periods are classified as the latent stage. The skin barrier plays a critical role in the modulation of skin permeability and hydration and protects the body against a harsh external environment. However, an analysis on the skin barrier dysfunction against radiation exposure in the latent stage has not been conducted. Thus, we investigated whether skin barrier is impaired by irradiation in the latent stage and aimed to identify the molecules involved in skin barrier dysfunction. We analyzed skin barrier function and its components in SKH-1 mice that received 20 and 40 Gy local irradiation. Increased transepidermal water loss and skin pH were observed in the latent stage of the irradiated skin. Skin barrier components, such as structural proteins and lipid synthesis enzymes in keratinocyte, increased in the irradiated group. Interestingly, we noted sebaceous gland atrophy and increased serine protease and inflammatory cytokines in the irradiated skin during the latent period. This finding indicates that the main factor of skin barrier dysfunction in the latent stage of radiation-induced skin injury is sebaceous gland deficiency, which could be an intervention target for skin barrier impairment.', u'/manuscript/201711.0150/v1', [u'Anatomy & Morphology'], []]
[u'Assessing the Performances of Protein Function Prediction Algorithms from the Perspectives of Identification Accuracy and False Discovery Rate', ['Chunyan Yu', 'Xiaoxu Li', 'Hong Yang', 'Yinghong Li', 'Weiwei Xue', 'Yuzong Chen', 'Lin Tao', 'Feng Zhu'], u'November 24 2017', u'The knowledge of protein function is essential for the study of biological processes, the understanding of disease mechanism and the exploration of novel therapeutic target. Apart from experimental methods, a number of in-silico approaches have been developed and extensively used for protein function prediction. Among these approaches, BLAST predicts functions based on protein sequence similarity, and machine learning predicts functional families from protein sequences irrespective of their similarity, which complements BLAST and other methods in predicting diverse classes of proteins including distantly related proteins and homologous proteins of different functions. However, their identification accuracies and the false discovery rate have not yet been assessed so far, which greatly limits the usage of these prediction algorithms. Herein, a comprehensive comparison of the performances among four popular functional prediction algorithms (BLAST, SVM, PNN and KNN) was conducted. In particular, the performance of these algorithms were systematically assessed by four metrics (sensitivity, specificity, accuracy and Matthews correlation coefficient) based on the independent test datasets generated from 93 protein families defined by UniProtKB Keywords. Moreover, the false discovery rates of these algorithms were evaluated by scanning the genomes of four representative model species (homo sapiens, arabidopsis thaliana, saccharomyces cerevisiae and mycobacterium tuberculosis). As a result, the substantially higher sensitivity and stability of BLAST and SVM were observed compared with that of PNN and KNN. But the machine learning algorithms (PNN, KNN and SVM) were found capable of significantly reducing the false discovery rate (SVM < PNN \u2248 KNN). In summary, this study comprehensively assessed the performance of four popular algorithms applied to protein function prediction, which could facilitate the selection of the most appropriate method in the related biomedical research.', u'/manuscript/201711.0160/v1', [u'Biochemistry'], []]
[u'The Effect of Educational Intervention on Family Caregivers\u2019 Perceived Threat of the Risk of Dependence among Patients with Stroke', ['Narjes Deyhoul', 'Parvaneh Vasli', 'Camelia Rohani', 'Nezhat Shakeri', 'Meimanat Hosseini'], u'November 27 2017', u"Abstract: 1) Background: The present study aimed to examine the effect of the instructional intervention in family caregivers\u2019 perceived threat of stroke patients\u2019 dependency risk. 2) Methods: This was a randomized controlled clinical trial in which two patient and family caregiver groups of 45 were randomly divided into intervention and control groups based on the inclusion/exclusion criteria. Instructional intervention for family caregivers in the intervention group was in the form of four one-hour sessions. The data were collected before and immediately after instructional intervention at the hospital as well as two weeks and two months following the intervention via postal service. The data analysis was done using SPSS ver.22. 3) Results: The pre-intervention family caregivers\u2019 perceived threat was not significantly different in the two groups (P = 0.591). However, the family caregivers\u2019 perceived threat of the intervention group increased after the intervention compared with the control group (P < 0.001). In addition, the family caregivers\u2019 perceived threat of the intervention group was significantly different in all post instructional intervention stages compared with pre-intervention (P < 0.001), whereas no such difference was observed in the control group (p = 0.245). 4) Conclusions: It is recommended that stroke patients' caregivers be provided with instructional programs to enhance their understanding of patient dependency risks and challenges.", u'/manuscript/201711.0173/v1', [u'Nursing & Health Studies'], []]
[u'Regulation of Mitochondrial Dynamics by Proteolytic Processing and Protein Turnover', ['Sumaira Ali', 'Gavin P. McStay'], u'November 27 2017', u'The mitochondrial network is a dynamic organization within eukaryotic cells that participates in a variety of essential cellular processes, such as ATP synthesis, central metabolism, apoptosis and inflammation. The mitochondrial network is balanced between rates of fusion and fission that respond to pathophysiologic signals to coordinate appropriate mitochondrial processes. Mitochondrial fusion and fission are regulated by proteins that either reside or translocate to the inner or outer mitochondrial membranes or are soluble in the inter-membrane space. Mitochondrial fission and fusion are performed by GTPases on the outer and inner mitochondrial membranes with the assistance of other mitochondrial proteins. Due to the essential nature of mitochondrial function for cellular homeostasis regulation of mitochondrial dynamics is under strict control. Some of the mechanisms used to regulate the function of these proteins are post-translational proteolysis and/or turnover and this review will discuss these mechanisms required for correct mitochondrial network organization.', u'/manuscript/201711.0176/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], []]
[u'Functional Expression and Characterization of the Recombinant N-acetyl-glucosamine/N-acetyl-galactosamine-Specific Marine Algal Lectin BPL3', ['Hyun-ju Hwang', 'Jin-Woo Han', 'Gwang Hoon Kim', 'Jong Won Han'], u'November 28 2017', u'Lectins, characterized by their carbohydrate-binding ability, have an extensive practical application. However, their industrial use is limited by low yields, and few active recombinant lectins have been reported. In this study, the algal lectin BPL-3 (Bryopsis plumosa lectin 3) was successfully produced using a bacterial expression system, BL21(DE3), with an artificial repeated structure (dimeric construct). Recombinant dimeric BPL3 (rD2BPL3) was confirmed by LC-MS/MS spectrometry. Expression efficiency was greater for the construct with the repeat structure (rD2BPL3) than the monomeric form (rD1BPL3). Optimal conditions for expression were 1 mM IPTG at 20 \xb0C. Recombinant lectin was purified under denaturing conditions and refolded by the flash dilution method. Recombinant BPL3 was solubilized in 1\xd7 PBS containing 2 M urea. rD2BPL3 showed strong hemagglutination activity using human erythrocytes, similar to that of native BPL3. rD2BPL3 had a similar sugar specificity to that of the native protein, i.e., to N-acetyl-glucosamine (GlcNAc) and N-acetyl-galactosamine (GalNAc). Glycan array results showed that recombinant BPL3 and native BPL3 exhibited different binding properties. Both showed weak binding activity to \u03b1-Man-Sp. Native BPL3 showed strong binding specificity to the alpha conformation of amino sugars, and rD2BPL3 had binding activity to the beta conformation. The process developed in this study was suitable for the quality-controlled production of high amounts of soluble recombinant lectins.', u'/manuscript/201711.0180/v1', [u'Biochemistry'], []]
[u'High-Resolution Crystal Structure of RpoS Fragment Including a Partial Region 1.2 and Region 2 from the Intracellular Pathogen Legionella pneumophila', ['Nannan Zhang', 'Xiaofang Chen', 'Xiaojian Gong', 'Tao Li', 'Zhiyuan Xie', 'Muhammad Fazal Hameed', 'Honghua Ge'], u'November 29 2017', u'Legionella pneumophila RpoS (LpRpoS) is an alternative sigma factor of RNA polymerase (RNAP) essential for virulence and stress resistance. To investigate the mechanism of RpoS in the intracellular pathogen L. pneumophila, we determined the high-resolution crystal structure of the LpRpoS (residues 95-194) containing a partial region 1.2 and region 2. The structure of LpRpoS (residues 95-194) reveals that the conserved residues are critical for promoter melting, DNA and core RNAP binding. The differences in regulatory factor binding site between Escherichia coli RpoS and LpRpoS suggest that LpRpoS may employ a distinct mechanism to recruit alternative regulatory factors controlling transcription initiation.', u'/manuscript/201711.0182/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'A Novel Non-Invasive Selection Criterion for the Preservation of Primitive Dutch Konik Horses', ['Sharon May-Davis', 'Wendy Y Brown', 'Kathleen Shorter', 'Zefanja Vermeulen', 'Raquel Butler', 'Marianne Koekkoek'], u'November 29 2017', u'The Dutch Konik is valued from a genetic conservation perspective and also for its role in preservation of natural landscapes. The primary management objective for the captive breeding of this primitive horse is to maintain its genetic purity, whilst also maintaining the nature reserves on which they graze. Breeding selection has traditionally been based on phenotypic characteristics consistent with the breed description, and the selection of animals for removal from the breeding program is problematic at times due to high uniformity within the breed. With the objective of identifying an additional non-invasive selection criterion with potential uniqueness to the Dutch Konik, this study investigates the anatomic parameters of the distal equine limb, with a specific focus on the relative lengths of the individual splint bones. Post-mortem dissections performed on distal limbs of Dutch Konik (n = 47) and modern domesticated horses (n = 120) revealed significant differences in relation to the length and symmetry of the 2nd and 4th Metacarpals and Metatarsals. Distal limb characteristics with apparent uniqueness to the Dutch Konik are described which could be an important tool in the selection and preservation of the breed.', u'/manuscript/201711.0183/v1', [u'Anatomy & Morphology'], []]
[u'A Consideration of the Relationship between Animals and Their Environment', ['Ian G. Colditz'], u'November 30 2017', u'The relationship of the animal with its environment has been of longstanding interest in philosophy and science. Here I provide a brief introduction to concepts that place an emphasis on mutualism as the basis of organism - environment interaction, in contrast to the long standing view that the environment exerts an instrumental role in shaping the organism. Two influential theories have been von Uexk\xfcll\u2019s theory of umwelt and Gibson\u2019s theory of affordances. The former envisioned the animal as immersed in its surroundings (umwelt) to form a functional unit. In a similar manner, the latter theory describes a unity between 1) environmental information that provides the animal with opportunities for action (affordances) and 2) the ability of the animal to perceive and engage with those affordances. These views have influenced more recent ecological models of the organism as the functional unit of biology and have also influenced models of immune function. In ecological models, agency is seen as the ability of the organism to predict and control its engagement with the environment in order to maintain its integrity. The predominant contemporary model of neural function in which perception and action are understood to operate through Bayes-like active inference complements the concept of agency as proposed by the mutualism models. However, it is suggested that rather than a constant mutualism, encounters between organism and environment range over a dynamic spectrum from dualism to mutualism. It is also suggested that along this spectrum, agency emerges when the balance of instrumentality shifts from the environment to the organism, and that the balance of this relationship can further progress towards a felicitous mutualism. Meaning emerges between environmental information and an agent as opportunity for action. Implications for opportunities to foster agency in animals within our care is noted.', u'/manuscript/201711.0197/v1', [u'Ecology'], []]
[u'Dynamic Carbohydrate Supply and Demand Model of Vegetative Growth: Response to Temperature, Light, Carbon Dioxide, and Daylength', ['Martin P.N. Gent'], u'November 30 2017', u'Predicting the growth response of seedlings from the environmental responses of photosynthesis and metabolism may be improved by considering the dynamics of non-structural carbohydrate, NSC, over a diurnal cycle. Attenuation of growth metabolism when NSC content is low could explain why some NSC is conserved through the night. A dynamic model, incorporating diurnal variation in NSC, was developed to simulate growth of seedlings hour-by-hour. I compared predictions of this model to published growth and NSC data for seedlings that varied according to temperature, light, day length, or CO2. Prolonged-darkness experiments showed a temperature dependent upper limit on the respiration capacity. Respiration was attenuated as NSC was depleted. Furthermore, when NSC was high at dawn, inhibition of photosynthesis could attenuate the accumulation of NSC under low temperature, or high light, or high CO2. These concepts were used to simulate plant metabolism and growth rates and diurnal variation of NSC in tomato seedlings under two light levels and various temperatures. Comparison of other results using the same model parameters showed the dynamic model could predict results for starch and starch-less plants, and when growth was affected by CO2 enrichment and day length.', u'/manuscript/201711.0196/v1', [u'Agricultural Sciences & Agronomy'], []]
[u'Pediatric Thermal Burns and Treatment: A Review of Progress and Future Prospects', ['Elton Mathias', 'Madhu Srinivas Murthy'], u'November 30 2017', u"Burns is a pervasive and oppressive basic care issue. In children, burn injuries are a major reason for bleakness and mortality. The quirks in the physiology of liquid and electrolyte taking care of, the vital necessity and the distinctions in the different body extends in children direct that the pediatric wounds administration ought to be brought with an alternate point of view than for adults. Notwithstanding, for the intensivist, challenges regularly exist that muddle quiet help and adjustment. Moreover, burn injuries are mind-boggling and can show exceptional challenges that require deep-rooted recovery. Investigation in burn wound care has yielded progressions that will keep on improving practical recuperation. What's more, pain management all through this period is essential. Managing these wounds requires escalated therapeutic treatment for multi-organ dysfunction, and forceful surgical treatment to forestall sepsis and other inconveniences. The biological therapeutic bilayered skin substitutes with a long shelf life that recapitulates the normal barrier function of the intact human skin and stimulate wound repair and skin regeneration. A definitive objective is to accomplish a perfect skin substitute that gives a successful and without scar wound recuperating. This review article features the headway in pediatric burn wounds with an emphasis on the pathophysiology and treatment of burn wounds.", u'/manuscript/201711.0204/v1', [u'Pediatrics'], []]
[u'Phytotherapy in the Management of Diabetes: A Review', ['Paolo Governa', 'Giulia Baini', 'Vittoria Borgonetti', 'Giulia Cettolin', 'Daniela Giachetti', 'Anna Rosa Magnano', 'Elisabetta Miraldi', 'Marco Biagi'], u'November 30 2017', u'Phytotherapy has long been a source of medicinal products and many attempts to use herbal medicine for the treatment of diabetes has been done over the years. Several medicinal plants and their preparations demonstrated to act in key points of glucidic metabolism. The most common mechanisms of action found include the inhibition of \u03b1-glucosidase and of AGE formation, the increase of GLUT-4 and PPARs expression and the antioxidant activity. Despite the large amount of literature available, the actual clinical effectiveness of medicinal plants in controlling diabetes related symptoms is still controversial and there is a crucial need for stronger evidence-based data. In this review, an overview of the medicinal plants, which use in the management of diabetes is supported by authoritative monograph, is provided. References to some species which are currently under growing clinical investigation are also reported.', u'/manuscript/201711.0195/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], []]
[u'Decontamination of Bacteria from Water with Moderate Electric and Magnetic Fields', ['Alakaparampil J. Varkey', 'Mgidi D. Dlamini', 'Simiso K. Mkhonta'], u'November 30 2017', u'Bacteria play a key role in both human health and disease. One of the most prevalent harmful bacteria is E. coli which is responsible for several illnesses ranging from diarrhea, stomach cramp and fever. In this work we explore the application of moderate electric or magnetic fields for treating deionized water that is contaminated with E. coli. We found that moderate alternating electric (AC) fields (10 V/cm to 1kV/cm) and moderate static magnetic fields (10 to 65 mT) can significantly inactivate E. coli by up to 90% or more. This provides the possibilities of developing a low cost and a practical bacteria inactivation technique using electric or magnetic fields.', u'/manuscript/201711.0202/v1', [u'Biotechnology'], []]
[u'Self-Sampling for HPV Testing: Increased Cervical Cancer Screening Participation and Incorporation in International Screening Programs', ['Sarah Gupta', 'Christina Palmer', 'Elisabeth M. Bik', 'Juan P. Cardenas', 'Harold Nunez', 'Laurens Kraal', 'Sara Bird', 'Jennie Bowers', 'Alison Smith', 'Nathaniel A. Walton', 'Audrey D. Goddard', 'Daniel E. Almonacid', 'Jessica Richman', 'Zachary S. Apte'], u'November 30 2017', u'In most industrialized countries, screening programs for cervical cancer have shifted from cytology (Pap smear or ThinPrep) alone on clinician-obtained samples to the addition of screening for human papillomavirus (HPV), its main causative agent. For HPV testing, self-sampling instead of clinician-sampling has proven to be equally accurate, in particular for assays that use nucleic acid amplification techniques. In addition, HPV testing of self-collected samples in combination with a follow-up Pap smear in case of a positive result is more effective in detecting precancerous lesions than a Pap smear alone. Self-sampling for HPV testing has already been adopted by some countries, while others have started trials to evaluate its incorporation into national cervical cancer screening programs. Self-sampling may result in more individuals willing to participate in cervical cancer screening, because it removes many of the barriers that prevent women, especially those in low socioeconomic and minority populations, from participating in regular screening programs. Several studies have shown that the majority of women who have been underscreened but who tested HPV-positive in a self-obtained sample, will visit a clinic for follow-up diagnosis and management. Additionally, a self-collected sample can also be used for vaginal microbiome analysis, which can provide additional information about HPV infection persistence as well as vaginal health in general.', u'/manuscript/201711.0199/v1', [u'Microbiology'], []]
[u'MERS-CoV: Understanding the Latest Human Coronavirus Threat', ['Aasiyah  Chafekar', 'Burtram C. Fielding'], u'November 30 2017', u'Human coronaviruses cause both upper and lower respiratory tract infections in humans. In 2012 a sixth human coronavirus (hCoV) was isolated from a patient presenting with severe respiratory illness. The 60-year-old man died as a result of renal and respiratory failure after admission to a hospital in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. The aetiological agent was eventually identified as a coronavirus and designated Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV). MERS-CoV has now been reported in more than 27 countries across the Middle East, Europe, North Africa and Asia. As of July 2017, 2040 MERS-CoV laboratory confirmed cases, resulting in 712 deaths, were reported globally, with a majority of these cases from the Arabian Peninsula. This review summarises the current understanding of MERS-CoV, with special reference to the (i) genome structure, (ii) clinical features, (iii) diagnosis of infection and (iv) treatment and vaccine development.', u'/manuscript/201711.0198/v1', [u'Virology'], []]
[u'A Retrospective Review of Resuscitation Planning at a Children\u2019s Hospital', ['Jean Kelly', 'Jo Ritchie', 'Leigh Donovan', 'Carol Graham', 'Anthony Herbert'], u'December 1 2017', u'Resuscitation plans (RP) are an important clinical indicator relating to care at the end of life in pediatrics. A retrospective review of the medical records of children who had been referred to the Royal Children\u2019s Hospital, Brisbane, Australia who died in the calendar year 2011 was performed. Of 62 records available, 40 patients (65%) had a life limiting condition and 43 medical records (69%) contained a documented (RP). This study demonstrated that both the underlying condition (life-limiting or life-threatening) and the setting of care (PICU or home) influenced the development of resuscitation plans. Patients referred to the paediatric palliative care (PPC) service had a significantly longer time interval from documentation of a resuscitation plan to death and were more likely to die at home. All of the patients who died in the paediatric intensive care unit (PICU) had a RP which was documented within the last 48 hours of life. Most RPs were not easy to locate. Documentation of discussions related to resuscitation planning should accommodate patient and family centered care based on individual needs. With varied diagnoses and settings of care, it is important that there is inter-professional collaboration (particularly involving PICU and PPC services) in developing protocols of how to manage this difficult but inevitable clinical scenario.', u'/manuscript/201712.0004/v1', [u'Pediatrics'], []]
[u'Intra- and Intercellular Quality Control Mechanisms of Mitochondria', ['Yoshimitsu Kiriyama', 'Hiromi Nochi'], u'December 1 2017', u'Mitochondria function to generate ATP and also play important roles in cellular homeostasis, signaling, apoptosis, autophagy, and metabolism. The loss of mitochondrial function results in cell death and various types of diseases. Therefore, quality control of mitochondria via intra- and intercellular pathways is crucial. Intracellular quality control consists of biogenesis, fusion and fission, and degradation of mitochondria in the cell, whereas intercellular quality control involves tunneling nanotubes and extracellular vesicles. In this review, we outline the current knowledge on the intra- and intercellular quality control mechanisms of mitochondria.', u'/manuscript/201712.0008/v1', [u'Cell & Developmental Biology'], []]
[u'The Application of Non-Invasive Apoptosis Detection Sensor (IADS) on Histone Deacetylation Inhibitors (HDACi) Induced Breast Cancer Cell Death', ['Kai-Wen Hsu', 'Chien-Yu Huang', 'Ka-Wai Tam', 'Chun-Yu Lin', 'Li-Chi Huang', 'Ching-Ling Lin', 'Wen-Shyang Hsieh', 'Wei-Ming Chi', 'Yu-Jia Chang', 'Po-Li Wei', 'Chia-Hwa Lee'], u'December 1 2017', u'Breast cancer is the most common malignancies in women and the second leading cause of cancer death in women. Triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) subtype is a breast cancer subset without ER, PR and HER2 expression, limiting treatment options and presenting a poorer survival rate. Thus, we investigated whether HDACi would be used as potential anti-cancer therapy on breast cancer cells. In this study, we found TNBC and HER2-enrich breast cancers are extremely sensitive to Panobinostat, Belinostat of HDACi via experiments of cell viability assay, apoptotic marker identification and flow cytometry measurement. On the other hand, we developed a bioluminescence based live cell non-invasive apoptosis detection sensor (IADS) detection system to evaluate the quantitative and kinetic analyses of apoptotic cell death by HDAC treatment on breast cancer cells. In addition, the use of HDACi may also be accompanied with chemotherapeutic agent such as doxorubicin to synergic drug sensitivity on TNBC cell (MDA-MB-231), but not in breast normal epithelia cells (MCF-10A), providing therapeutic benefits against breast tumor in clinic.', u'/manuscript/201712.0007/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], []]
