[u'Characterization and Development of EST-SSR Markers in Sweet Potato (Ipomoea batatas (L.) Lam)', ['Jin-Hee Kim', 'Jun-Hoi Kim', 'Won-Sam Jo', 'Jung-Gwan Ham', 'Il Kyung Chung', 'Kyung-Min Kim'], u'September 20 2016', u'According to statistics from the Food and Agriculture Organization, the world population will increase to about 91 million (Asia 51 million, Africa 19 million). A rise in the world\u2019s population means an increased need for food. However, climate change has caused desertification and unpredictable weather, creating problems in the supply and demand of food. Sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas) is an alternative to solving the food problem, as it is one of the world\u2019s most important food crops, especially in developing countries. The tuberous roots of sweet potato are usually used as staple food, animal feed, industrial material, or raw material for alcohol production. In the future, more variations of sweet potato will be needed for breeding this crop. Recently, molecular markers developed for sweet potato have demonstrated good potential for use in genetic selection. In this study, a cDNA library was constructed from the total RNA of sweet potato leaves. A total of 789 copies of the cDNA were cloned in Escherichia coli by employing the pGEM-T Easy vector. Sequencing was carried out by Solgent Co. (Korea). As many as 579 expressed sequence tag\u2013simple sequence repeat (EST-SSR) markers were designed (73.38%) from the known cDNA nucleotide base sequences. The lengths of the developed EST-SSR markers ranged from 100 to 499 bp (average length 238 bp). Their motif sequence types were varied, with most being dinucleotides and pentanucleotides, and the most commonly found motifs were CAGAAT (29.0%) and TCT (2.8%). Based on these SSR-containing sequences, 619 pairs of high-quality SSR primers were designed using WebSat and Primer3web. The total number of primers designed was 144. Polymorphism was evident in 82 EST-SSR markers among 20 Korean sweet potato cultivars tested and in 90 EST-SSR markers in the two parents of a mapping population, Yeseumi and Annobeny. In this study, the hexaploid sweet potato (2n = 6x = 90) EST-SSR markers were developed in the absence of full-sequence data. Moreover, by acting as a molecular tag for particular traits, the EST-SSR marker can also simultaneously identify information about the corresponding gene. These EST-SSR markers will allow the molecular analysis of sweet potato to be done more efficiently. Thus, we can develop high-quality sweet potato while overcoming the challenges from climate change and other unfavorable conditions.', u'/manuscript/201609.0071/v1', [u'Plant Sciences'], [u'Division of Plant Biosciences, School of Applied Biosciences, College of Agriculture and Life Science, Kyungpook National University, Daegu 41566, Korea', u'Department of Biotechnology, Catholic University of Daegu, Gyeongsan-Si, Gyeongbuk 38430, Korea']]
[u'Strategies in the Design of Antidiabetic Drugs from Terminalia Chebula Retz. Using in silico and in vitro Approach', ['Twinkle Bansode', 'B.K. Salalkar'], u'September 20 2016', u'Diabetes mellitus is the fifth deadliest disease in the developing countries. Even with all the research and new drugs available, combating diabetes is still challenging. There are successes in finding new cost effective drugs without side effects, even if not perfect. In our investigation we studied binding mechanism of secondary metabolite of T. chebula in silico. It was observed that three compounds out of 16 have a higher binding affinity for the target proteins. Ellagic acid showed highest binding affinity with alpha amylase, beta glucosidase and alpha glucosidase with lesser binding energies -4.5kcal/mol, -5.36kcal/mol and -4.48kcal/mol respectively. Arjungenin has lesser binding energy of 4.77 kcal/mol with glucokinase while luteoline has binding energy of -7.25kcal/mol for enzyme glycogen synthase kinase. These entire compounds interacted with non-covalent interaction. Petroleum ether extract showed the significant alpha amylase inhibitory activity i.e. 51.22% as compared to standard drug (65.99%).TLC analysis revealed the presence of total 9 compounds in different plant extracts one of them might be a lead compound which could be further exploited for the development of novel safer and potent antidiabetic drug.', u'/manuscript/201609.0073/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], [u'Pravara Institute of Medical Sciences (DU), Loni (Bk), Tal. Rahata, Dist.Ahmednagar, (MS) India-413736', u'Arts, Science & Commerce College, Rahata, Tal-Rahata, Dist. Ahmednagar (MS) India \u2013423 107']]
[u'Effects of Fetal Exposure to Asian Sand Dust on Fetal Development and Reproductive Function in Male Offspring', ['Seiichi Yoshida', 'Takamichi Ichinose', 'Keiichi Arashidani', 'Miao He', 'Hirohisa Takano', 'Takayuki Shibamoto'], u'September 20 2016', u'In recent experimental studies, we reported the aggravating effects of Asian sand dust (ASD) on male reproductive function in mice. However, the effects of fetal ASD exposure on male reproductive function have not been investigated. The present study investigated the effects of fetal ASD exposure on reproductive function in male offspring. Using pregnant CD-1 mice, ASD was administered intratracheally on days 7 and 14 of gestation, and the reproductive function of male offspring was determined at 5, 10, and 15 weeks after birth. The secondary sex ratio was significantly lower in the fetal ASD-exposed mice than in the controls. Histologic examination showed partial vacuolation of seminiferous tubules in immature mice. Moreover, daily sperm production (DSP) was significantly less in the fetal ASD-exposed mice than in the controls. DSP in the fetal ASD-exposed mice was approximately 10% less than the controls at both 5 and 10 weeks. However, both the histologic changes and the DSP decrease were reversed as the mice matured. These findings suggest that ASD exposure affects both the fetal development and the reproductive function of male offspring. In the future, it will be necessary to clarify the onset mechanisms of ASD-induced male fetus death and male reproductive disorders.', u'/manuscript/201609.0070/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], [u'Department of Health and Sciences, Oita University of Nursing and Health Sciences, Oita 870-1201, Japan', u'Department of Immunology and Parasitology, School of Medicine, University of Occupational and Environmental Health, Fukuoka 807-8555, Japan', u'Environment and Non-Communicable Disease Research Center, School of Public Health,  China Medical University, Shenyang 110122, China', u'Environmental Health Division, Department of Environmental Engineering, Graduate School of Engineering, Kyoto University, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan', u'Department of Environmental Toxicology, University of California, Davis, CA 95616, USA']]
[u'Evaluation of Antibody Titre of Dogs Vaccinated against Canine Distemper in Jos, Plateau State', ['Kenneth Ikejiofor Ogbu'], u'September 20 2016', u'Determination of antibody titre of dogs vaccinated against canine distemper in Jos North and South local Government Areas of Plateau State was carried out by collection of sera of vaccinated dogs and administration of well-structured questionnaires to dog owners. The samples collected were analyzed using the immune-blot ELISA Kit to determining the antibody titre (immunoglobulin G). It indicated that dogs vaccinated against the disease mounted adequate protective immunity. The result revealed that 54 (90.0%) of the sampled dogs have protective immunity, with those given more than one dose having higher level of protective antibody. Statistically, the result showed that the antibody titre did not differ significantly in relation to immunity and sex, breed, age and location but significant difference was seen in relation to number of primary vaccination. The result also revealed that those dogs that received booster doses (secondary vaccination) had more protective antibody. The study was aimed at evaluating the antibody titre of dogs vaccinated against canine distemper in Jos, Plateau State.', u'/manuscript/201609.0066/v1', [u'Veterinary Medicine'], [u'Federal College of Animal Health and Production Technology, Vom, Plateau State, Nigeria']]
