[u'RNA-seq Analysis of Solanesol Biosynthesis Genes in Nicotiana tabacum', ['Ning Yan', 'Hongbo Zhang', 'Zhongfeng Zhang', 'John Shi', 'Michael P. Timko', 'Yongmei Du', 'Xinmin Liu', 'Yanhua Liu'], u'September 18 2016', u'Solanesol is a noncyclic terpene alcohol composed of nine isoprene units and it mainly accumulates in solanaceous plants, especially tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.). Here, RNA-seq analyses of tobacco leaves, stems, and roots were used to identify solanesol biosynthesis genes. Six 1-deoxy-d-xylulose 5-phosphate synthase, two 1-deoxy-d-xylulose 5-phosphate reductoisomerase, two 2-C-methyl-d-erythritol 4-phosphate cytidylyltransferase, four 4-diphosphocytidyl-2-C-methyl-d-erythritol kinase, two 2-C-methyl-d-erythritol 2,4-cyclodiphosphate synthase, four 1-hydroxy-2-methyl-2-(E)-butenyl 4-diphosphate synthase, two 1-hydroxy-2-methyl-2-(E)-butenyl 4-diphosphate reductase, six isopentenyl diphosphate isomerase, and two solanesyl diphosphate synthase (SPS) genes were identified to be involved in solanesol biosynthesis. Furthermore, the two N. tabacum SPS (NtSPS1 and NtSPS2), which had two conserved aspartate-rich DDxxD domains, were highly homologous with SPS enzymes from other solanaceous plant species. In addition, the solanesol contents of three organs, and leaves from four growing stages, corresponded with the distribution of chlorophyll. Our findings provide a comprehensive evaluation of the correlation between the expression of different biosynthetic genes and the accumulation of solanesol in tobacco.', u'/manuscript/201609.0062/v1', [u'Plant Sciences'], [u'Tobacco Research Institute of Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Qingdao 266101, China', u'Guelph Food Research Center, Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada, Guelph, ON N1G 5C9, Canada', u'Department of Biology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA 22904, USA']]
[u'The Impacts of Different Green Manure on Soil Microbial Communities and Crop Health', ['Hongwu Yang', 'Jiaojiao Niu', 'Jiemeng Tao', 'Yabing Gu', 'Chao Zhang', 'Siyuan She', 'Wu Chen', 'Hongqi Yang', 'Huaqun Yin'], u'September 18 2016', u'Green manure could improve soil nutrients and crop production, playing a significant role in sustainable agriculture. However, the impacts of green manure on crop health and the roles soil microbial communities play in the process haven\u2019t been clarified clearly yet. In this study, we investigated soil microbial community composition and structure in four tobacco farmlands, which were treated with different green manure (control, ryegrass, pea and rape), using 16S rRNA gene amplicons sequencing. Results showed that green manure had significant impacts on soil properties, microbial communities and tobacco health. First, soil total C, N and Ca content increased significantly in groups treated with green manure than control. Second, soil community diversity was significantly higher in groups treated with green manure. Third, green manure especially ryegrass, decreased tobacco disease (bacterial wilt) rate dramatically, and the process might be mediated by soil microbial communities. On the one hand, several microbial populations were found to be potentially disease inducible or suppressive. For example, the abundances of Dokdonella and Rhodanobacter were positively correlated to tobacco disease rate, while Acidobacteira_Gp4 and Gp6 had negative correlations with tobacco disease. On the other hand, soil microbial communities were shaped by soil properties (e.g., pH, C and N content). In conclusion, our research showed that green manure could increase soil nutrients directly, and further improve tobacco health mediated by soil microorganisms, which may shed light on revealing interactions among soil properties, microorganisms and plants.', u'/manuscript/201609.0056/v1', [u'Agricultural Sciences & Agronomy'], [u'College of agronomy, Hunan Agricultural University, Changsha 410128, China', u'School of Minerals Processing and Bioengineering, Central South University,  Changsha 410083, China', u'Key laboratory of Biometallurgy, Ministry of Education, Changsha 410083, China']]
