[u'Spatial Distribution of Soil Nitrogen, Phosphorus and Potassium Stocks in Moso bamboo Forests in Subtropical China', ['Xiaolu Tang', 'Mingpeng Xia', 'Fengying Guan', 'Shaohui Fan'], u'October 24 2016', u'Moso bamboo is famous for fast growing and biomass accumulation, as well as high annual output for timber and bamboo shoots. These high outputs require high nutrient inputs to maintain and improve stand productivity. Soil nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P) and potassium (K) are important micronutrients for plant growth and productivity. Due to high variability of soils, analysing spatial patterns of soil N, P and K stocks is necessary for scientific nutrient management in Moso bamboo forests. In this study, soils were sampled from 138 locations across Yong\u2019an City and ordinary kriging was applied for spatial interpolation of soil N, P and K stocks. Soil N stock showed a strong spatial dependence while soil N and P stocks presented a moderate spatial dependence, indicating soil N was mainly controlled by intrinsic factors while soil N and P stocks were controlled by both intrinsic and extrinsic factors. Different spatial patterns were observed for soil N, P and K stocks across the whole study area, indicating that fertilizations with different ratios of N:P:K should be applied for different sites to maintain and improve stand productivity. The total soil N, P and K stocks within 0-60 cm were 0.624, 0.020 and 0.583 Tg, respectively.', u'/manuscript/201610.0103/v1', [u'Forestry'], [u'Key laboratory of Bamboo and Rattan, International Centre for Bamboo and Rattan, Beijing 100102, China']]
[u'Isolation and Characterisation of Probiotics for Antagonising Cariogenic Bacterium Streptococcus mutans and Preventing Biofilm Formation', ['Pei-Pei Lin', 'You-Miin Hsieh', 'Cheng-Chih Tsai'], u'October 24 2016', u'Consumption of refined foods and beverages high in sugar make the teeth susceptible to the formation of biofilm, and lead to dental caries and diseases of the oral cavity such as periodontitis and periodontal disease. The aim of the present study was to determine the ability of selected probiotics to inhibit growth and biofilm formation by the cariogenic bacterium Streptococcus mutans in vitro. We screened strains of latic acid bacteria (LAB) (n=120) from the Bioresources Collection and Research Center (BCRC), saliva of healthy adults and infant stool. The antimicrobial activity of LAB in vitro was evaluated by agar spot culture and co-culture of the S. mutans strains. We determined the effect of heating and dilution factors (2- and 4-fold) on the antagonistic activity of LAB. Antagonistic substances in the spent culture suspensions (SCS) of LAB were precipitated by extraction with ammonium sulphate and chloroform to characterise the protein and lipophilic fractions. Results of co-culturing show that the SCS of the three LAB strains (Lactobacillus pentosus 13-1, 13-4 and Lactobacillus crispatus BCRC 14618) subjected to heat treatment showed significantly high antimicrobial activity. We found that substances produced by L. pentosus 13-4 which have the potential to exhibit antimicrobial properties might be lipophilic proteins. Additionally, we infer that the mechanism of reducing biofilm formation by Lactobacillus strains is associated with sucrose-dependent cell\u2013cell adhesion and the gtfC level of glucosyltransferases (Gtfs) in the biofilm. Native LAB strains screened in our study may be used in chewing gums and other processed foods for preventing tooth decay.', u'/manuscript/201610.0102/v1', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Culinary Arts, De Lin Institute of Technology, Taipei City 23654, Taiwan', u'Department of Food and Nutrition, Providence University, Taichung City 43302, Taiwan', u'Department of Food Science and Technology, HungKuang University, Taichung City 43302, Taiwan']]
