[u'Salidroside Regulates Inflammatory Response in Raw 264.7 Macrophages via TLR4/TAK1 and Ameliorates Inflammation in Alcohol Binge Drinking Induced Liver Injury', ['Peng Sun', 'Shun-Zong Song', 'Shuang Jiang', 'Xia Li', 'You-Li Yao', 'Yan-Ling Wu', 'Li-Hua Lian', 'Ji-Xing Nan'], u'September 27 2016', u'The current study was designed to investigate the anti-inflammatory effect of salidroside (SDS) and the underlying mechanism by using lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated RAW 264.7 macrophages in vitro and a mouse model of binge drinking induced liver injury in vivo. SDS downregulated protein expression of toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) and CD14. SDS inhibited LPS-triggered phosphorylation of LPS-activated kinase 1 (TAK1), p38, c-Jun terminal kinase (JNK), and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK). Degradation of I\u03baB-\u03b1 and nuclear translocation of nuclear factor (NF)-\u03baB were effectively blocked by SDS. SDS concentration-dependently suppressed LPS mediated inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) protein levels, as well as their downstream products, NO. SDS significantly inhibited protein secretion of interleukin (IL)-1\u03b2. Additionally C57BL/6 mice were orally administrated SDS for continuous 5 days, followed by three gavages of ethanol every 30 min. Alcohol binge drinking caused the increasing of hepatic lipid accumulation and serum transaminases levels. SDS pretreatment significantly alleviated liver inflammatory changes and serum transaminases levels. Further investigation indicated that SDS markedly decreased protein level of IL-1\u03b2 in serum. Taken together, these data implied that SDS inhibits liver inflammation both in vitro and in vivo, and may be a promising candidate for the treatment of inflammatory liver injury.', u'/manuscript/201609.0102/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], [u'Key Laboratory for Natural Resource of ChangBai Mountain & Functional Molecules, Ministry of Education, College of Pharmacy, Yanbian University, Yanji 133002, Chinab', u'Clinical Research Center, Yanbian University Hospital, Yanji 133002, China']]
