[u'Characterization of a Novel Lethal Dermonecrotic Recombinant Phospholipase D from the Venom of Iranian Scorpion, Hemiscorpius lepturus Reference to Homology with American Brown Spiders', ['Elham Torabi', 'Vahid Khalaj', 'Mahdi Behdani', 'Mohammad Hosseininejad Chafi', 'Reza Moazzami', 'Jean-Marc Sabatier', 'Delavar Shahbazzadeh', 'Kamran Pooshang Bagheri'], u'December 9 2016', u'Hemiscorpius lepturus scorpion stings are associated with local and systemic disorders may be led to death. The clinical signs of H. lepturus envenomation are amazingly the same as those reported for brown spiders. The main cause of brown spider\u2019s lethality and toxicity has been attributed to its phospholipase D activity. Accordingly this study was aimed to find a phospholipase D that would be responsible for lethality and dermonecrotic activity. In this study, a cDNA library of the venom glands was generated by Illumina RNA sequencing. H. lepturus PLD was characterized reference to its significant homology with Phospholipase D (PLD) from brown spiders. The accuracy of the obtained sequence was approved by RT-PCR and sequencing. The main chain designated Hl-RecPLD1 (as the first isoform of H. lepturus PLD) was cloned, expressed, and purified. Sphingomyelinase, dermonecrotic, and lethal activities were estimated. A remarkable sequence and structural homology were seen with PLDs of brown spiders. The conformation was determined as a TIM beta/alpha-barrel. The LD50 and dermonecrotic activity of Hl-RecPLD1 were determined as 3\xb5g/mouse and 0.7cm2 respectively. Interestingly, this study is the first report indicating similar molecular evolutionary mechanism happened in American brown spiders and Iranian scorpion. According to our results, Hl-RecPLD1 is a highly active phospholipase D that would be served as a novel lethal dermonecrotic toxin in H. lepturus venom.', u'/manuscript/201612.0051/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], [u'Venom and Biotherapeutics Molecules Lab., Medical Biotechnology Department, Biotechnology Research Center, Pasteur Institute of Iran, Tehran, Iran', u'Medical Biotechnology Department, Biotechnology Research Center, Pasteur Institute of Iran, Tehran, Iran', u'INSERM UMRs 1097, Aix-Marseille Universit\xe9, Parc Scientifique et Technologique de Luminy, Marseille, France']]
[u'A Review on Phytochemistry and Pharmacology of Cortex Periplocae', ['Yang Li', 'Jin Li', 'Kun Zhou', 'Jun He', 'Jun Cao', 'Ming-Rui An', 'Yan-Xu Chang'], u'December 8 2016', u'Cortex Periplocae, as a traditional Chinese herbal medicine, has been widely used for autoimmune diseases, especially rheumatoid arthritis. Due to its potential pharmaceutical values, more studies about the biological activities of Cortex Periplocae have been conducted recently. Meanwhile, the adverse reaction of Cortex Periplocae is not a negligible problem in clinic. In this article, we reviewed a series of articles and summarized the recent studies of Cortex Periplocae in the areas of phytochemistry and pharmacology. More than 100 constituents have been isolated and identified from Cortex Periplocae, including steroids, cardiac glycosides, terpenoids, and fatty acid compounds. The crude extracts of Cortex Periplocae and its active compounds exhibit various biological activities, such as cardiotonic effect, anticancer action, and anti-inflammatory effect. This paper aims to provide an overall review on the bioactive ingredients, pharmacological effect, and toxicity of this plant. Furthermore, this review suggests investigating and developing new clinical usages according to the above pharmacological effects.', u'/manuscript/201612.0048/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], [u'Tianjin State Key Laboratory of Modern Chinese Medicine, Tianjin University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin 300193, China', u'Tianjin Key Laboratory of Phytochemistry and Pharmaceutical Analysis, Tianjin University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin 300193, China', u'College of Material Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Hangzhou Normal University,  Hangzhou 310036, China', u'Department of Surgery, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109, USA']]
[u'In Vitro and in Vivo Antiplasmodial Activity of Extracts from Polyalthia suaveolens, Uvaria angolensis and Monodora tenuifolia (Annonaceae)', ['Alvine N. Mfopa', 'Lauve R. Y. Tchokouaha', 'Cedric D.J. Mbouna', 'Marthe A. T. Tchuente', 'Rufin M. T. Kouipou', 'Patrick V. T. Fokou', 'Eugenie A. M. Kemgne', 'Raceline G. Kamkumo', 'Fabrice F. Boyom'], u'December 8 2016', u'The present study aimed at investigating the in vitro and in vivo susceptibility of malaria parasites to crude extracts and fractions from Polyalthia suaveolens, Uvaria angolensis, and Monodora tenuifolia. The ethanolic extracts were prepared by maceration, and were further partitioned using water, dichloromethane, hexane, and methanol. The most promising fraction was subjected to column chromatography and the sub-fractions tested for activity in vitro. The antiplasmodial effect of extracts and fractions was tested against the Chloroquine resistant (PfK1) strain in 96 wells microtiter plate format using SYBR green florescence assay. The promising fraction was further assessed for cytotoxicity and acute toxicity in Swiss albino mice and subsequently against the rodent malaria parasite, P. berghei. Qualitative phytochemical screening was also performed on the promising fraction. The methanol fractions exerted the overall better effect with that of the twigs of P. suaveolens (PStw(Ace)) showing the highest potency with a IC50 value of 3.24 \xb5g/mL followed by the fractions of leaf of M. tenuifolia (MoTel(Ace), IC50= 3.84 \xb5g/ml) and stem bark of P. suaveolens (IC50= 4.90 \xb5g/ml). The phytochemical screening showed the presence of alkaloids, lactones, and phenols in the more active fraction of P. suaveolens (PStw(Ace)). The chromatographic fractionation of this fraction led to 12 sub-fractions with PS8 sub-fraction being the most active (IC50= 4.42 \xb5g/mL). In vivo, oral administration of 2000 mg/kg b.w of fraction PStw(Ace) in mice showed no signs of toxicity. Also, fraction PStw(Ace) at 400 mg/kg b.w exerted the highest suppressive effect against P. berghei strain B throughout the 4 days experiment (% parasitaemia below 5.2%). Overall, the results achieved supported the use of the three plants in the traditional treatment of malaria in Cameroon. More interestingly, the methanolic fraction of the twigs extract from P. suaveolens might be of interest in future development of an antimalarial phytodrug.', u'/manuscript/201612.0044/v1', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'Antimicrobial & Biocontrol Agents Unit (AmBcAU), Laboratory for Phytobiochemistry and Medicinal Plants Studies, Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Science, University of Yaound\xe9 I, P.O. Box: 812, Yaound\xe9, Cameroon', u'Noguchi Memorial Institute for Medical Research (NMIMR), P.O. Box LG 581. Legon, Accra, Ghana', u'Institute of Medical Research and Medicinal Plants Studies (IMPM), P.O. Box 6163, Yaounde, Cameroon', u'Laboratory of Natural Products and Organic Synthesis, Department of Organic Chemistry, Faculty of Science, University of Yaound\xe9 I, P.O. Box: 812, Yaound\xe9, Cameroon', u'Laboratory of Animal Physiology, Faculty of Science, University of Yaound\xe9 I, P.O. Box: 812, Yaound\xe9, Cameroon']]
