[u'Characterization of Extracellular Vesicles Isolated from Plasma and Urine of Healthy Donors and  Cancer Patients', ['Annika Freund', 'Corinna Plattfaut', 'Antje Mueller', 'Gabriela Riemekasten', 'Christian Haas', 'Frank Gieseler'], u'October 14 2016', u'Extracellular vesicles (EVs) were detected and quantified in blood and urine of healthy donors and cancer patients using serial centrifugation protocols and high- resolution flow cytometry. EVs were phenotypically characterized by measuring exposure of phosphatidylserine (PS) and activities of FX and TFPI as well as functionally analyzed for tenase activity, ERK phosphorylation and tumor cell migration. Plasmatic and urinary EVs contained mainly microparticles (MPs), accompanied by low amounts of exosomes or apoptotic bodies. In contrast to plasmatic MPs, urinary MPs from healthy donors did not expose PS, which argues for endothelial cells of the urinary tract as a source. In cancer patients, however, we found urinary MPs presenting PS. Their amount correlated positively with albumin excretion. This suggests that the glomerular membrane is leaky for plasmatic MPs as well as albumin; thus in the urine of cancer patients the EVs presenting PS might be obtained from the plasma. Positive correlations between tenase activity, ERK phosphorylation and potency to induce tumor cell migration suggest that TF-presenting EVs form PAR- activating tenase complexes with FVII and FX, activate PAR-2, induce ERK phosphorylation and trigger tumor cell migration. Our results representing proof-of-principle suggest that further studies in defined cancers and stages are warranted.', u'/manuscript/201610.0056/v1', [u'Oncology & Oncogenics'], [u'Experimental Oncology, Ethics and Palliative Care in Oncology, University Hospital and Medical School, UKSH, Luebeck 23562, Germany', u'Clinic for Rheumatology, University Hospital and Medical School, UKSH, Luebeck 23562, Germany', u'Experimental Nephrology, University Hospital and Medical School, UKSH, Luebeck 23562, Germany']]
[u'Functional and Regulatory Profiling of Energy Metabolism in Fission Yeast', ['Michal Malecki', 'Danny A. Bitton', 'Maria Rodriguez-Lopez', 'Charalampos Rallis', 'Noelia Garcia Cavalia', 'Graeme C. Smith', 'Jurg Bahler'], u'October 14 2016', u'Background:\xa0 The control of energy metabolism is fundamental for cell growth and function, and anomalies are implicated in complex diseases and ageing. It is important for cells to carefully tune metabolic pathways to optimize their function in response to different nutrient or physiological conditions. Metabolism in yeast cells can be easily manipulated by supplying different carbon sources: on glucose yeast rapidly proliferates by fermentation, analogous to tumour cells growing by aerobic glycolysis, whereas on non-fermentable carbon sources metabolism shifts towards respiration. Results:\xa0 We screened deletion libraries of fission yeast to identify over 200 genes required for respiratory growth. The growth medium and auxotrophic mutants strongly influenced respiratory metabolism. Most genes uncovered in the mutant screens have not been implicated in respiration in budding yeast. We applied gene expression profiling approaches to compare steady-state fermentative and respiratory growth and to analyse the dynamic adaptation to respiratory growth. The transcript levels of most genes functioning in key energy metabolism pathways were coherently tuned, reflecting anticipated differences in metabolic flows between fermenting and respiring cells. We show that the acetyl-CoA synthase, rather than the citrate lyase, is essential for acetyl-CoA synthesis in fission yeast. We also investigated the transcriptional response to mitochondrial damage by genetic or chemical perturbations, defining a retrograde response that involves the concerted regulation of distinct groups of nuclear genes that may avert harm from mitochondrial malfunction. Conclusions:\xa0 These systematic and targeted analyses provide a rich framework of the genetic and regulatory basis of fundamental metabolic states to guide future studies on energy metabolism in fission yeast and beyond. Our study pinpoints weaknesses of commonly used auxotroph mutants for investigating energy metabolism. As a model for cellular energy regulation, fission yeast provides an attractive and complementary system to budding yeast.', u'/manuscript/201610.0054/v1', [u'Genetics'], [u'Research Department of Genetics, Evolution & Environment and Institute of Healthy Ageing, University College London, London WC1E 6BT, UK', u'Department of Genetics and Biotechnology, Faculty of Biology, University of Warsaw,  Warsaw 00-927, Poland', u'Current address: School of Health, Sport and Biosciences, University of East London, London E15 4LZ, UK']]
