[u'RNA-Seq Based Transcriptomic Analysis of Cppu Treated Grape Berries and Emission of Volatile Compounds', ['Wu Wang', 'Muhammad Khalil-Ur-Rehman', 'Jiao Feng', 'Jiyuan Wang', 'Jianmin Tao'], u'November 22 2016', u'Grape vine (Vitis vinifera L.) is considered one of the most popular and common fruit crops in the world. CPPU [forchlorfenuron N-(2-chloro-4-pyridyl)-N-phenylurea] is a synthetic cytokine like plant regulator promotes grape berry set and development. Although a variety of volatile secondary metabolites that contribute to aroma quality have been identified, our understanding of the biosynthetic pathways of these compounds has remained largely incomplete. Therefore, information about the transcriptome of grape berries and specifically, details of any change in gene expression in response to CPPU is required for better understanding of the biological mechanism of CPPU mediated volatile biosynthesis. The results of gas-chromatography mass-spectrometry (GC-MS) revealed that terpenols, especially linalool, was greatly reduced in CPPU-treated berries as compared to untreated. We performed RNA-seq analysis of \u2018Shine Muscat\u2019 grape to identify the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) related to volatile biosynthesis induced by CPPU treatment 0, 5, and 10 mg.L-1 in grape berries. A total of 494, 1237, and 1085 DEGs were detected in CPPU0 vs CPPU5, CPPU0 vs CPPU10, and CPPU5 vs CPPU10 treatments respectively. The results were compared against two databases, Gene Ontology (GO), and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) to annotate gene description and assign a pathway to each gene. Of the 116 total pathways annotated by the KEGG analysis, the most represented pathways were the biosynthesis of secondary metabolites, plant hormone signal transduction, phenylpropanoid metabolism and carotenoid biosynthesis. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) related to redox activity were abundant in the GO biological process category. RT-qPCR assay results for twelve selected transcripts validated the data obtained by RNA-seq. GC-MS analysis revealed that exogenous CPPU application reduce the level of volatile components in grape berries especially linalool and its oxides. Our results provide the first sequential transcriptomic atlas of CPPU treated grape berries which may pave the way for ultimate improvements fruit quality of grape.', u'/manuscript/201611.0112/v1', [u'Horticulture'], [u'College of Horticulture, Nanjing Agricultural University, No. 1 Weigang,  Nanjing 210095, China']]
[u'A Possible Role of an Interaction of the Age at Common Childhood Infections and Selected Dietary Factors at Young Age, for the Risk of Multiple Sclerosis', ['Klaus Lauer', 'Annette Wahl', 'Marcel Geilenkeuser'], u'November 22 2016', u'An increased risk of multiple sclerosis (MS) had been found when individuals had consumed large amounts of processed meat and sausages at young age (Lauer, 2014). Furthermore it was found in many studies that MS patients had acquired a number of common childhood infections at higher ages than controls. Therefore, MS patients from an epidemiological long-term investigation in Germany and different hospital controls, were evaluated for a statistical interaction of these two factors. 324 MS patients and 242 hospital controls were inquired. The study focussed on age 0 - 16. Subjects were tested for\xa0additive interaction by multiple linear regression analysis (Knol et al., 2007). There was an additive interaction of the age at any common childhood infection with the consumption of scalded sausages (regression estimate = 0.1370; standard error = 0.0603; p = 0.0239). In contrast, no such\xa0interaction could be shown for: animal fats; smoked meat (e.g. ham and bacon); and cold - smoked German salami. Thus there was a synergy of the intake of scalded sausages (e.g. frankfurters, bolognas, etc.) and\xa0age at common childhood infections, for the later risk of MS.', u'/manuscript/201611.0114/v1', [u'Behavioral Neuroscience'], [u'Private neuro-epidemiologist Eulerweg 4, D-64347 Griesheim, Germany', u'Neurologicum Darmstadt, Luisenplatz 1, D-64283 Darmstadt, Germany', u'Neurologische Gemeinschaftspraxis, Hammergasse 1, D-64372 Ober-Ramstadt, Germany']]
