[u'How Glutamate Is Managed by the Blood-Brain Barrier', ['Richard A. Hawkins', 'Juan R. Vina'], u'September 23 2016', u'A facilitative transport system exists on the blood brain barrier (BBB) that has been tacitly assumed to be a path for glutamate entry to brain. But glutamate is a non-essential amino acid whose brain content is much greater than plasma, and studies in vivo show that glutamate does not enter brain in material quantities except in those small regions with fenestrated capillaries (circumventricular organs). The situation became understandable when luminal (blood facing) and abluminal (brain facing) membranes were isolated and studied separately. Facilitative transport of glutamate and glutamine exist only on the luminal membranes whereas Na+-dependent transport systems for glutamate, glutamine and some other amino acids are present only on the abluminal membrane. The Na+-dependent cotransporters of the abluminal membrane are in a position to actively transport amino acids from the extracellular fluid (ECF) into the endothelial cells of the BBB. These powerful secondary active transporters couple the energy of the Na+-gradient to move glutamate and glutamine into the ECF whereupon glutamate can exit to blood on the luminal facilitative glutamate transporter. Glutamine may also exit brain on a separate facilitative transport system that exists on the luminal membranes or glutamine can be hydrolyzed to glutamate within the BBB thereby releasing ammonia that is freely diffusible. The \u03b3-glutamyl participate cycle participates indirectly by producing oxoproline (pyroglutamate) that stimulates almost all secondary active transporters yet discovered in the abluminal membranes of the BBB.', u'/manuscript/201609.0077/v1', [u'Physiology'], [u'Department of Physiology & Biophysics, The Chicago MedicalSchool, Rosalind Franklin University of Medicine and Science, North Chicago, IL 60088, USA', u'Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Faculty of Medicine and Odontology, University of Valencia, Valencia 46010, Spain']]
[u'In Vitro Study of a Superhydrophilic Thin Film Nitinol Endograft that Is Electrostatically Endothelialized in the Catheter Prior to the Endovascular Procedure', ['Mahdis Shayan', 'Yanfei Chen', 'Puneeth Shridhar', 'Colin P. Kealey', 'Youngjae Chun'], u'September 23 2016', u'Electrostatic endothelial cell seeding has evolved as an exceptional technique to improve the efficiency of cell seeding in terms of frequency of attached cells and the amount of cell adhesion for the treatment of vascular diseases. In the recent times, both untreated and superhydrophilic thin film nitinol (TFN) have exhibited strong prospect as substrates for creation of small-diameter endovascular grafts due to their hallmark properties of superelasticity, ultra low-profile character, grown hemocompatible oxide layer with the presence of a uniform endothelial layer on the surface. The purpose of the current study is to understand the effects of endothelial cell seeding parameters (i.e., applied voltage, incubation time, substrate chemistry and cell suspension solution) to investigate the cell seeding phenomenon and to improve the cell adhesion and growth on the TFN surface under electrostatic transplantation. Both parallel plate and cylindrical capacitor models were used along with the Taguchi Design of Experiment (DOE) methods to design in vitro test parameters. A novel in vitro system for cylindrical capacitor model was created using a micro flow pump, micro incubation system, and silicone tubings. The augmented endothelialization on thin film nitinol was developed to determine the effect of cell seeding and deployed in a 6 Fr intravascular catheter setup. Cell viability along with morphology and proliferation of adhered cells were evaluated using fluorescent and scanning electron microscopy. Our results demonstrated that the maximum number of cells attached on STFN in the catheter was observed in 5V with the 2 hr exposure of in the cell culture medium (CCM) solution. The condition showed 5V voltage with 0.68\xd710-6 \xb5C electrostatic charge and 5.11 V\xb7mm-1 electric field. Our findings have first demonstrated that the electrostatic endothelialization on the superhydrophilic thin film nitinol endograft within the catheter prior to the endovascular procedure could enhance the biocompatibility for low-profile endovascular applications.', u'/manuscript/201609.0078/v1', [u'Cardiology'], [u'Department of Industrial Engineering, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15260, USA', u'Department of Bioengineering, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15260, USA', u'Business Development, NeuroSigma, Inc., Los Angeles, CA 90024, USA', u'McGowan Institute for Regenerative Medicine, Pittsburgh, PA 15219, USA']]
[u'Determination of Genetic Variations of Toll-like Receptor (TLR) 2, 4 and 6 with Next Generation Sequencing in Native Cattle Breeds of Anatolia and Holstein Friesian', ['Nuket Bilgen', 'Bengi Cinar Kul', 'Victoria Offord', 'Dirk Werling', 'Okan Ertugrul'], u'September 23 2016', u'In recent years, the focus of disease resistance and susceptibility studies in cattle have been on determining patterns in the innate immune response of key proteins, such as Toll-like receptors (TLR). In the bovine genome, there are 10 TLR family members and, of these, TLR2, TLR4 and TLR6 are specialized in recognition of bacterial ligands. Indigenous cattle breeds of Anatolia have been reported to show fewer signs of clinical bacterial infections, such as bovine tuberculosis and mastitis, and it is hypothesized that this might be due to a less stringent genetic selection during breeding. In contrast, Holstein-Friesian cattle have been under strong selection for milk production, which may have resulted in greater susceptibility to diseases. To test this hypothesis, we have compared the TLR2, TLR4 and TLR6 genes of Anatolian Black (AB), East Anatolian Red (EAR), South Anatolian Red (SAR), Turkish Grey (TG), and Holstein (HOL) cattle using Next Generation Sequencing. The SAR breed had the most variations overall, followed by EAR, AB, TG and HOL. TG had the most variations for TLR2 whereas SAR had the most variations in TLR4 and TLR6. We compared these variants with those associated with disease and susceptibility traits. We used exon variants to construct haplotypes, investigated shared haplotypes within breeds and determined candidate haplotypes for disease resistance phenotype in Anatolian cattle breeds.', u'/manuscript/201609.0080/v1', [u'Genetics'], [u'Department of Animal Genetics, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University of Ankara,  Ankara 06560, Turkey', u'Department of Pathology and Infectious Diseases, Royal Veterinary College, University of London, London WC1E 7HU, UK']]
