[u'Review on Usage of Vancomycin in Livestock and Humans: Maintaining its Efficacy, Prevention of Resistance and Alternative Therapy', ['P. N. K. WIJESEKARA', 'W. W. Kumbukgolla', 'Jayaweera Arachchige Asela Sampath Jayaweera', 'D. S. Rawat'], u'November 12 2016', u'Vancomycin is one of the \u2018last-line\u2019 classes of antibiotics used in the treatment of life-threatening infections caused by Gram-positive bacteria. Even though vancomycin was discovered in 1950s it was widely used after 1980s for the treatment of infections caused by methicillin-resistant Staphylococci as prevalence of such strains were increased. However, currently it is evident that vancomycin resistant Staphylococcusaureusandvancomycin-resistant Enterococci have been developed as a result of various reasons including use of avaparcin, which is an analog of vancomycin, as feed additive in livestock. In present day context, more attention should be paid on prevention of emergence of resistance for the antibiotics in order to keep antibiotics effective. In order to prevent emergence of resistance, proper guidance for the responsible use of antimicrobials is indispensable. Therefore, almost all stakeholders who use antibiotics should have in depth understanding on the antibiotic they use. As such, it is imperative to be aware of the important aspects of vancomycin. In the present review, efforts have been made to discussthe pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics, indications, emergence of resistance, control of resistance, adverse effects and alternative therapy for vancomycin.', u'/manuscript/201611.0067/v1', [u'Veterinary Medicine'], [u'Veterinary Surgeon and Senior Assistant Secretary, University Grants Commission, Ward Pl, Colombo 00700, Sri Lanka', u'Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine and Allied Sciences, Rajarata University of Sri Lanka, Mihintale, Sri Lanka', u'Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Medicine and Allied Sciences, Rajarata University, Mihintale, Sri Lanka', u'Department of Chemistry, University of Delhi, Delhi 110007, India']]
[u'Enhanced Autophagy in the Kidney of AQP11 Null Mice Developing Polycystic Kidneys', ['Yasuko Tanaka', 'Mayumi Watari', 'Tatusya Saito', 'Yoshiyuki Morishita', 'Kenichi Ishibashi'], u'November 12 2016', u'Aquaporin-11 (AQP11) is an intracellular water channel expressed at the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) of the kidney proximal tubule. Its gene disruption in mice leads to intracellular vacuole formation at one week old and the subsequent development of polycystic kidneys at three week old. As the damaged proximal tubular cells with intracellular vacuoles later form cysts, autophagy may play a role in their survival. We examined the autophagy activity before and after the development of cysts in AQP11(-/-) kidneys. We first observed an enhanced expression of LC3 gene (Map1lc3b) as well as other autophagy-related genes in AQP11(-/-) mice by quantitative PCR analysis. We then examined the formation of autophagosomes visualized by a green fluorescent fusion protein, GFP\u2013LC3 in its transgenic mice. The expression of GFP-LC3 puncta was increased in the proximal tubule of AQP11(-/-) mice before the cyst formation. Interestingly, they were also observed in the cyst-lining epithelial cell. Further PCR analyses revealed the enhanced expression of apoptosis- and ER stress-related caspase genes before and after the cyst formation suggesting that ER stress may have enhanced autophagy. We conclude that autophagy will play an important role in the development and the survival of the kidney cysts in AQP11(-/-) mice.', u'/manuscript/201611.0066/v1', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'Department of Pathophysiology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Meiji Pharmaceutical University, 2-522-1 Noshio, Kiyose, Tokyo 204-8588, Japan', u'Department of Nephrology, Jichi Medical University, Saitama Medical Center, Saitama 330-8503, Japan']]
