[u'Transcriptome Profiling Analysis of Wolf Spider Pardosa pseudoannulata (Araneae: Lycosidae) after Cadmium Exposure', ['Chang-chun Li', 'Yong Wang', 'Guo-yuan Li', 'Yueli Yun', 'Yu-jun Dai', 'Jian Chen', 'Yu Peng'], u'October 8 2016', u"Pardosa pseudoannulata is one of the most common wandering spiders in agricultural fields and a potentially good bioindicator for heavy metal contamination. However, little is known about the mechanism by which spiders respond to heavy metals at the molecular level. In this study, high-throughput transcriptome sequencing was employed to characterize the de novo transcriptome of the spiders and to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) after cadmium exposure. We obtained 60,489 assembled unigenes, 18,773 of which were annotated in the public databases. Ultimately, 3450 cDNA simple sequence repeats were identified and validated as potential molecular markers in the unigenes. A total of 2939, 2491 and 3759 DEGs were detected among the three libraries of two Cd-treated groups and the control. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that metabolism processes and digestive system function were predominately enriched in response to Cd stress. At the cellular and molecular levels, significantly enriched pathways in lysosomes and phagosomes as well as replication, recombination and repair demonstrated that oxidative damage resulted from Cd exposure. Based on the selected DEGs, certain critical genes involved in defence and detoxification were analysed. These results may elucidate the molecular mechanism underlying spiders' responses to heavy metal stress.", u'/manuscript/201610.0022/v1', [u'Animal Sciences & Zoology'], [u'Hubei Collaborative Innovation Center for Green Transformation of Bio-Resources,  College of Life Sciences, Hubei University, Wuhan 430062, China', u'Hubei Key Laboratory of Quality Control of Characteristic Fruits and Vegetables,  Hubei Engineering University, Xiaogan 432000, China']]
[u'Zinc Finger and X-Linked Factor (ZFX) Binds to Human SET Transcript 2 Promoter and Transactivates SET Expression', ['Siliang Xu', 'Shi-Wen Jiang', 'Fengbiao Guo', 'Tristan Senkowski', 'Jinping Li', 'Haibin Chen', 'Alberto Romero', 'Yugui Cui', 'Jiayin Liu'], u'October 8 2016', u"SET protein carries out multiple functions including those for protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) inhibition, histone modification, DNA repair and gene regulation. SET overexpression has been detected in brain neurons of Alzheimer's disease patients, follicle theca cells of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) patients, and ovarian cancer cells, indicating that SET may play a pathological role for these disorders. SET transcript 2, produced by a specific promoter, represents a major transcript variant in different cell types. In this study, we characterized the transcriptional activation of human SET transcript 2 promoter in HeLa cells. Promoter deletion experiments and co-transfection assays indicated that ZFX, the Zinc finger and X-linked transcription factor, was able to transactivate the SET promoter. A proximal promoter region containing four ZFX-binding sites was found to be critical for the ZFX-mediated transactivation. Mutagenesis study indicated that the site located closest to the transcription start site accounted for most of the ZFX-mediated transactivity. Manipulation of ZFX levels by overexpression or siRNA knockdown confirmed the significance and specificity of the ZFX-mediated SET promoter activation. Chromatin immunoprecipitation results verified the binding of ZFX to its cognate site in the SET promoter. These findings have led to identification of ZFX as an upstream factor regulating SET gene expression. More studies are required to define the in vivo significance of this mechanism, and specifically, its implication for several benign and malignant diseases related to SET dysregulation.", u'/manuscript/201610.0021/v1', [u'Genetics'], [u'The State Key Laboratory of Reproductive Medicine, Clinical Center of Reproductive Medicine,  First Affiliated Hospital, Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing 210029, China', u'Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Second Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou 325027, China', u'Department of Biomedical Science, Mercer University School of Medicine, Savannah, GA 31404, USA', u'Department of Histology and Embryology, Shantou University Medical College, Shantou 515000, China']]
