[u'Robots to the Rescue: A Review of Studies on Differential Medical Diagnosis Employing Ontology-Based Chat Bot Technology', ['Bosede Iyiade Edwards', 'Idris Oladele Muniru', 'Adrian David Cheok'], u'November 25 2016', u'Access to medical care, especially in poor economies, is a key global issue. Telemedicine and other technology-aided approaches have been applied in addressing the challenge of access with many solutions that focus on closing the physician-patient gap. Medical diagnosis has however not fully represented in areas addressed through technology as fully automated and reliable diagnosis procedures are still far from being realized. Though a number of web-based applications are available, they employ text-based inputs rather than conversation in natural language. Ontology-based chatbot technology is being deployed to address this challenge through conversational agents. We explored the utility of ontology-based chatbot technology in medical diagnosis through a systematic review of the most recent related literature. English articles published in the last 5 years (2011-2016) returned 233 hits which yielded 11 relevant articles after screening of duplicates, title and abstracts. Findings showed that the creation of expert systems had been the focus of many of these studies with system training based mostly on expert knowledge and the physician-system-patient framework. The applications are designed to merely serve assistive purposes. The systems are deployed on the web or mobile phones. Findings further indicated gaps in the design and evaluation of more effective systems deployable as standalone applications, for example, on an embodied robotic system. The need for technology supporting the \u2018physical examination\u2019 part of diagnosis, connection to data sources on patients\u2019 vitals and medical history are also indicated in addition to the need for more qualitative work on natural language-based interaction. The system should be one that is continuously learning. Focus should also be directed towards the building of more robust knowledge base as well as evaluation of theory-based diagnostic methodological options\u3002', u'/manuscript/201611.0130/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], [u'Imagineering Institute (IDM Lab, Malaysia), 79200 Nusajaya, Malaysia', u'Department of Computing, Universiti Teknologi Malaysia, 81310 Skudai, Malaysia', u'10 Northampton Square City University London, College Building, Room A309a, University of London, London WC1E 7HU, UK']]
[u'Changes in Biochemical Parameters of the Calcium-Phosphorus Homeostasis in Relation to Nutritional Intake in Very-Low-Birth-Weight Infants', ['Viola Christmann', 'Charlotte J. W. Gradussen', 'Michelle N. Kornmann', 'Nel Roeleveld', 'Johannes B. Van Goudoever', 'Arno F.J. Van Heijst'], u'November 25 2016', u'Preterm infants are at significant risk to develop reduced bone mineralization based on inadequate supply of calcium and phosphorus (Ca-P). Biochemical parameters can be used to evaluate the nutritional intake. The direct effect of nutritional intake on changes in biochemical parameters has not been studied. Our objective was to evaluate the effect of Ca-P supplementation on biochemical markers as serum (s)/urinary (u) Ca and P; alkaline phosphatase (ALP); tubular reabsorption of P (TrP) and urinary ratios for Ca/creatinin and P/creatinin in Very-Low-Birth-Weight infants on postnatal day 1, 3, 5, 7, 10, and 14. This observational study compared two groups with High (n = 30) and Low (n = 40) intake of Ca-P. Birth weight: median (IRQ) 948 (772-1225) vs. 939 (776-1163) grams; Gestational age: 28.2 (26.5-29.6) vs. 27.8 (26.1-29.4) weeks. Daily median concentrations of biochemical parameter were not different between the groups but linear regression mixed model analyses showed that Ca intake increased the uCa and TrP (p = 0.04) and decreased ALP (p = 0.00). Phosphorus intake increased sP, uP and uP/creat ratio and ALP (p \u2264 0.02) and caused decrease in TrP (p = 0.00). Protein intake decreased sP (p = 0.000), while low gestational age and male gender increased renal excretion of P (p < 0.03). Standardized repeated measurements showed that biochemical parameters were affected by nutritional intake, gestational age and gender.', u'/manuscript/201611.0129/v1', [u'Nutrition'], [u'Department of Paediatrics, Subdivision of Neonatology, Radboudumc Amalia Children\u2019s Hospital, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen 6525 GA, The Netherlands', u'Department for Health Evidence, Radboud Institute for Health Science, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen 6525 GA, The Netherlands', u'Department of Paediatrics, Radboudumc Amalia Children\u2019s Hospital, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen 6525 GA, The Netherlands', u'Department of Paediatrics, VU University Medical Center, 1081 HV Amsterdam, The Netherlands', u'Department of Paediatrics, Emma Children\u2019s Hospital - AMC, 1105 AZ Amsterdam, The Netherlands']]
[u'Screening for Triterpenoid Saponins in Plants Using Hyphenated Analytical Platforms', ['Bekzod Khakimov', 'Li Hong Tseng', 'Markus Godeljohann', 'Sren Bak', 'Sren Balling Engelsen'], u'November 25 2016', u'Recently the number of studies investigating triterpenoid saponins has drastically increased due to their diverse and potentially attractive biological activities. Currently the literature contains chemical structures of few hundreds of triterpenoid saponins of plant and animal origin. Triterpenoid saponins consist of a triterpene aglycone with one or more sugar moieties attached to it. However, due to similar physico-chemical properties, isolation and identification of a large diversity of triterpenoid saponins remain challenging. This study demonstrates a methodology to screen saponins using hyphenated analytical platforms, GC-MS, LC-MS/MS, and LC-SPE-NMR/MS, in the example of two different phenotypes of the model plant Barbarea vulgaris (winter cress), glabrous (G) and pubescent (P) type that are known to differ by their insect resistance. The proposed methodology allows for detailed comparison of saponin profiles from intact plant extracts as well as saponin aglycone profiles from hydrolysed samples. Continuously measured 1D proton NMR data during LC separation along with mass spectrometry data revealed significant differences, including contents of saponins, types of aglycones and numbers of sugar moieties attached to the aglycone. A total of 49 peaks were tentatively identified as saponins from both plants; they are derived from eight types of aglycones and with 2\u20135 sugar moieties. Identification of two previously known insect-deterrent saponins, hederagenin cellobioside and oleanolic acid cellobioside, demonstrated the applicability of the methodology for relatively rapid screening of bioactive compounds.', u'/manuscript/201611.0128/v1', [u'Other'], [u'Department of Food Science, Faculty of Science, University of Copenhagen, Rolighedsvej 16,  DK-1958 Frederiksberg C, Denmark', u'Department of Plant and Environmental Sciences, Faculty of Science, University of Copenhagen, Rolighedsvej 16, DK-1958 Frederiksberg C Denmark', u'Bruker BioSpin GmbH, 76287 Rheinstetten, Germany']]
