[u'Demands of Geometry on Color Vision', ['Dale Purves', 'Chidambaram Yegappan'], u'August 23 2016', u'The reasons for the circular sense of human color perception generated by two sorts of color opponent neurons and three cone types are not well understood. Here we use geometrical analysis to examine the hypothesis that opponency, the recursive nature of color perception, and trichromacy arise as the most efficient ways of distinguishing spectrally different points on a plane using a minimum of color classes and receptor types.', u'/manuscript/201608.0192/v1', [u'Physiology'], [u'Neuroscience and Behavioral Disorders Program, Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School Singapore, 8 College Road, Singapore 169857, Singapore', u'Department of Neurobiology, Research Drive, Duke University Medical Center, Durham,  NC 27710, USA', u'Duke Institute for Brain Sciences, Duke University, Durham, NC 27708, USA']]
[u'Psychosocial Impact of Assistive Technologies for Mobility and Their Implications for Active Ageing', ['Anabela Martins', 'Joao Pinheiro', 'Beatriz Farias', 'Jeffrey Jutai'], u'August 23 2016', u'Active ageing is defined as the process of optimizing opportunities for physical, social and mental health to enable older people to take an active part in society without discrimination and to enjoy an independent and good quality of life. The World Health Organization assumed this as a process for increasing and maintaining an individual\u2019s participation in activities to enhance his/her quality of life. In this survey, the authors addressed the following question: \u201cIs assistive technology (AT) for mobility contributing to enhancement of lifelong capacity and performance?\u201d. From June 2015 until February 2016, 96 community dwelling adults, AT users for mobility (powered wheelchairs, manual wheelchairs, lower limb prostheses, walkers, crutches and canes), aged 45-97, mean 67.02 +/- 14.24 years old, 56.3% female, were interviewed using the Psychosocial Impact of Assistive Devices Scale (P-PIADS), the Activities and Participation Profile related to Mobility (APPM) and demographics, clinical and questions about AT use and training. The participants\u2019 profiles revealed moderate limitation and restrictions in participation, measured by the APPM (2.03). Most participants showed positive impact of AT; average scores obtained from the P-PIADS subscales were: Self-esteem 0.62, Competency 1.11 and Adaptability 1.10. P-PIADS total was 0.96, with the powered wheelchair users scoring the highest (1.53) and the walker users scoring the lowest (0.73). All subscales and P-PIADS total were positively correlated with the activities and participation profile. There was no relation between age and the psychosocial impact of AT or activities and participation profile. These results encourage the authors to follow these participants up for a lifelong intervention. To accomplish that aim, currently, the protocol is implemented at the AT prescribing centers in Coimbra, Portugal in order to assess the impact of AT on participation in society, one of the domains of the Active Ageing Index, a new analytical tool to help policy makers in developing policies for active and healthy ageing.\xa0', u'/manuscript/201608.0199/v1', [u'Other'], [u'IPC ESTeSC Coimbra Health School, Physiotherapy Department, Coimbra, Portugal', u'Faculty of Medicine, University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal', u'Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Ottawa, and Bruy\xe8re Research Institute Canada']]
[u'Current Understanding on Tail Regeneration in Green Anoles (Anolis carolinensis)', ['Zulkar Nain', 'Md Ariful Islam', 'Sadrul Hasan Chowdhury', 'Sadia Afroza'], u'August 23 2016', u'Regeneration of lost tail is of great importance to lizards. Anolis carolinensis, a green lizard, is capable of regenerating its tail efficiently after autotomy. Hence, it is considered as a model organism in regeneration study. A. carolinensis shed its tail in order to distract the predator\u2019s attention and thus makes a way to escape. Restoring of the amputated tail takes several days and the mechanism is currently clearly understood. Although save its life, tail regeneration is associated with the impairment of several vital functions in Anoles. In addition, various differences have been observed between original and regenerated tail in terms of mechanism and structure. To date, very little work has been conducted on tail autotomy and regeneration at molecular and genetic level. The genes responsible for regeneration in anoles are identified recently. These genes are evolutionarily conserved through all tetrapod vertebrates. They are, however, in a state of \u2018switched-off\u2019 in other vertebrates including humans. Consequently, a throughout study of these so called \u2018switched-off\u2019 genes may provide a way of restoring lost organs in human, and thus could revolutionize the modern medical science.', u'/manuscript/201608.0195/v1', [u'Cell & Developmental Biology'], [u'Department of Biotechnology and Genetic Engineering, Faculty of Applied Science and Technology, Islamic University, Kushtia 7003, Bangladesh']]
