[u'Selective Feeding and Microalgal Consumption Rates by Crown-of-Thorns Seastar (Acanthaster cf. solaris) Larvae', ['Camille Mellin', 'Claire Lugrin', 'Ken Okaji', 'David S. Francis', 'Sven Uthicke'], u'November 24 2016', u'Outbreaks of the crown-of-thorns seastar (CoTS) represent a major cause of coral loss on the Great Barrier Reef. Outbreaks might be explained by enhanced larval survival supported by higher phytoplankton availability after flood events, yet little is known about CoTS larvae feeding behaviour, in particular their potential for selective feeding. Here, single- and mixed-species feeding experiments were conducted on CoTS bipinnaria larvae using five algae (Phaeodactylum tricornutum, Pavlova lutheri, Tisochrysis lutea , Dunaliella sp. and Chaetoceros sp.) and two algal concentrations (1000 and 2500 algae mL-1). Cell counts using flow-cytometry at the beginning and end of each incubation experiment allowed us to calculate the filtration and ingestion rates of each species by CoTS larvae. In line with previous studies, CoTS larvae ingested more algae when initial algal concentration was higher. We found evidence for the selective ingestion of some species (Chaetoceros sp., Dunaliella sp.) over others (P. lutheri, P. tricornutum). The preferred algal species had the highest energy content, suggesting that CoTS selectively ingested the most energetic algae. Ultimately, combining these results with spatio-temporal patterns in phytoplankton communities will help elucidate the role of larval feeding behaviour in determining the frequency and magnitude of CoTS outbreaks.', u'/manuscript/201611.0124/v1', [u'Ecology'], [u'Australian Institute of Marine Science PMB No 3, Townsville, Queensland 4810, Australia', u'The Environment Institute and School of Biological Sciences, The University of Adelaide, South Australia 5005, Australia', u'AgroParisTech, 75005 Paris, France', u'Coralquest Inc., 1-34-10 Asahicho, Atsugi 2430014, Japan', u'School of Life and Environmental Sciences, Deakin University, Warrnambool Campus, Princes Hwy, Sherwood Park, PO Box 423, Warrnambool VIC 3280, Australia']]
[u'Shifting Paradigm of Governance in the Natural Resources Management of Bangladesh: A Centralist to Pluralistic Approach in the Forest Protected Areas Management', ['A. Z. M. Manzoor Rashid', 'Donna Craig', 'Sharif Ahmed Mukul'], u'November 24 2016', u'Good governance in natural resource management (NRM) is one of the most challenging issues in developing countries that often inappropriately embedded in national policies and political agendas. It is, in fact, even more important for countries like Bangladesh with exceptionally high pressure and dependence on its natural resources for sustaining rural livelihoods. Globally, nowadays, good governance is considered as one of the key factor for achieving the goal of sustainable development and biodiversity conservation. Bangladesh, of late has responded to that global zeal by involving local communities in the management of country\u2019s declining forest and other natural resources. The colonial legacy of the forestry sector of Bangladesh was planned and, managed as interim projects through donors\u2019 prescriptions. Thus, institutions, management processes and conservation outcomes were problematic. The conventional approach adopted by colonial and post-colonial regimes for forest management also proved to be inefficient due to its top-down management system. The absolute dependency on donor support, and their prescription sometimes worsened the situation both ecologically and socially. Global, regional and local trends supported the need for a different dimension in the governance paradigms. The introduction of a pluralistic approach, known as co-management in protected areas (PAs) is an example of an attempt whereby shared governance mechanism are implemented to attain the desired goals of conservation that will also address the livelihoods and aspirations of communities living in and around PAs of the country. However, in designing future forest and PA regimes the concern of the external aid support and attached conditions remain a reality that needs to be addressed. Adequate attention should be given to our vanishing biodiversity, culture and community livelihoods through devising an appropriate governance mechanism recognizing and supporting local rights, access and participation in the environmental management. It is now time to mainstream the adhoc nature of governance according to our national conservation strategy and policy frameworks in order to achieve the goals and objectives of the Bangladesh NRM sector addressing the human and community right of people in the specific context of forest protected areas management.', u'/manuscript/201611.0123/v1', [u'Forestry'], [u'Department of Forestry and Environmental Science, School of Agriculture and Mineral Sciences, Shahjalal University of Science and Technology, Sylhet 3114, Bangladesh', u'Environmental Law, School of Law, Western Sydney University,  Sydney NSW 2751, Australia', u'Tropical Forests and People Research Centre,  University of the Sunshine Coast, Maroochydore DC QLD 4556, Australia', u'Tropical Forestry Group, School of Agriculture and Food Sciences, The University of Queensland, Brisbane QLD 4072, Autsralia']]
[u'IQGAP1 in Podosome /Invadosome is Involved in the Progression of Glioblastoma Multiforme Depending on the Tumor Status', ['Deborah Rotoli', 'Natalia Perez-Rodriguez', 'Manuel Morales', 'Maria Del Carmen Maeso', 'Julio Avila', 'Ali Mobasheri', 'Pablo Martin-Vasallo'], u'November 24 2016', u'Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most frequent and aggressive primary brain tumor. GBM is formed by a very heterogeneous astrocyte population, neurons, neovascularization and infiltrating myeloid cells (microglia and monocyte derived macrophages). The IQGAP1 scaffold protein interacts with components of the cytoskeleton, cell adhesion molecules, and several signaling molecules to regulate cell morphology and motility, cell cycle and other cellular functions. IQGAP1 overexpression and delocalization has been observed in several tumors, suggesting a role for this protein in cell proliferation, transformation and invasion. IQGAP1 has been identified as a marker of amplifying cancer cells in GBMs. To determine the involvement of IQGAP1 in the onco-biology of GBM, we performed immunohistochemical confocal microscopical analysis of the IQGAP1 protein in human GBM tissue samples using cell type-specific markers. IQGAP1 immunostaining and subcellular localization was heterogeneous; the protein was located in the plasma membrane and, at variable levels, in nucleus and/or cytosol). Moreover, IQGAP1 positive staining was found in podosome/invadopodia-like structures. IQGAP1+ staining was observed in neurons (Map2+ cells), in cancer stem cells (CSC; nestin+) and in several macrophages (CD31+ or Iba1+). Our results indicate that the IQGAP1 protein is involved in normal cell physiology and also in oncologic processes.', u'/manuscript/201611.0126/v1', [u'Oncology & Oncogenics'], [u'Laboratorio de Biolog\xeda del Desarrollo. UD de Bioqu\xedmica y Biolog\xeda Molecular and Centro de Investigaciones Biom\xe9dicas de Canarias (CIBICAN), Universidad de La Laguna, La Laguna,  Av. Astrof\xedsico S\xe1nchez s/n. 38206 La Laguna. Tenerife. Spain', u'CNR \u2013 National Research Council, Institute of Endocrinology and Experimental Oncology (IEOS), Via Sergio Pansini, 5 \u2013 80131, Naples, Italy', u'Service of Medical Oncology, University Hospital Nuestra Se\xf1ora de Candelaria, Santa Cruz de Tenerife 38010, Canary Islands, Spain', u'Medical Oncology, Hospiten\xae Hospitals, Tenerife, Spain', u'Service of Pathology, University Hospital Nuestra Se\xf1ora de Candelaria, Santa Cruz de Tenerife 38010, Canary Islands, Spain', u'Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of Surrey, Guildford, Surrey, GU2 7XH, United Kingdom', u'Center of Excellence in Genomic Medicine Research (CEGMR), King Fahd Medical Research Center (KFMRC), Faculty of Applied Medical Sciences, King AbdulAziz University, Jeddah, 21589, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia']]
[u'Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Neoplasms: Basic Biology, Current Treatment Strategies and Prospects for the Future', ['Akihiro Ohmoto', 'Hirofumi Rokutan', 'Shinichi Yachida'], u'November 24 2016', u'Pancreatic neuroendocrine neoplasms (pNENs) are rare tumors accounting for only 1-2% of all pancreatic tumors. pNENs are pathologically heterogeneous and are categorized into three groups (neuroendocrine tumor: NET G1, NET G2 and neuroendocrine carcinoma: NEC) on the basis of Ki-67 proliferation index and mitotic count according to the 2010 WHO classification of gastroenteropancreatic NENs. NEC in this classification includes both histologically well-differentiated and poorly differentiated subtypes, and modification of the WHO 2010 classification is under discussion based on genetic and clinical data. Genomic analysis has revealed NETs G1/G2 have genetic alterations in chromatin remodeling genes such as MEN1, DAXX and ATRX, whereas NECs have an inactivation of TP53 and RB1, and these data suggest that different treatment approaches would be required for NET G1/G2 and NEC. While there are promising molecular targeted drugs, such as everolimus or sunitinib, for advanced NET G1/G2, treatment stratification based on appropriate predictive and prognostic biomarkers is becoming an important issue. The clinical outcome of NEC is still dismal, and a more detailed understanding of the genetic backround together with preclinical studies to develop new agents, including those already under investigation for SCLC, will be needed to improve the prognosis.', u'/manuscript/201611.0120/v1', [u'Oncology & Oncogenics'], [u'Division of Cancer Genomics, National Cancer Center Research Institute, Tokyo 1040045, Japan']]
[u'Up-regulation of Lamin A/C Expression in Epstein-Barr Virus Immortalized B Cells and Burkitt Lymphoma Cell Lines of Activated B Cell Phenotype', ['Ferenc Banati', 'Anita Koroknai', 'Kalman Szenthe', 'Tamas Tereh', 'Nora Kovacs', 'Anita Hidasi', 'Barbara Bankuti', 'Krisztina Buzas', 'Frederic Lemnitzer', 'Zsolt Ruzsics', 'Susan Szathmary', 'Hans Wolf', 'Daniel Salamon', 'Janos Minarovits', 'Hans-Helmut Niller'], u'November 24 2016', u'Lamin A, B and C, the nuclear intermediate-filament proteins, play a role in epigenetic regulation. While Lamin B is expressed in all nucleated cells studied, Lamin A/C are transcribed in most somatic cell types except mature B lymphocytes. Since Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), a human gammaherpesvirus, is associated with tumorigenic processes and is known to alter the epigenotype of its host cells, we studied the expression of the LMNA gene and its epigenetic marks in EBV-carrying human lymphoid cell lines. We observed a high lamin A/C mRNA and protein expression in EBV-immortalized lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs) and in group III Burkitt lymphoma (BL) lines where hypomethylated first exons were observed with activating histone marks. In most cell lines with low promoter activity a highly methylated first exon could be detected. Our data showed that methylation of the first exon of LMNA was associated with the downregulation of LMNA expression whereas euchromatic histone marks were enriched at active LMNA promoters in EBV-immortalized LCLs. These data suggest a role for viral latency products to activate LMNAp in EBV-infected latency type III B cells in vitro. Expression of lamin A/C may contribute to the establishment of activated B cell phenotype that needs further explorations.', u'/manuscript/201611.0125/v1', [u'Virology'], [u'RT-Europe Nonprofit Research Ltd., Pozsonyi u. 88., Mosonmagyar\xf3v\xe1r, H-9200, Hungary', u'Microbiological Research Group, National Center for Epidemiology, Albert Fl\xf3rian \xfat 2-6., Budapest, H-1097, Hungary', u'University of Szeged, Faculty of Dentistry, Department of Oral Biology and Experimental Dental Research, Tisza Lajos krt. 64., Szeged, H-6720, Hungary', u'Max von Pettenkofer-Institut, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xe4t M\xfcnchen, Pettenkofer str. 9a, D-80336 Munich, Germany', u'University of Freiburg, University Medical Center Freiburg, Institute of Virology, Hermann-Herder-Str. 11., Freiburg, D-79104, Germany', u'Galen-Bio Kft., Bart\xf3k B\xe9la \xfat 51. I/4, Budapest, H-1114, Hungary', u'University of Regensburg, Franz-Josef-Strauss Allee 11, Regensburg, D-93053, Germany', u'Department of Microbiology, Tumor and Cell Biology, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, SE-171 77, Box 280, Sweden']]
[u'Evaluation of EphA2 and EphB4 as Targets for Image-Guided Colorectal Cancer Surgery', ['Marieke A. Stammes', 'Hendrica A. J. M. Prevoo', 'Meyke C. Ter Horst', 'Stephanie A. Groot', 'Cornelis J. H. Van De Velde', 'Alan B. Chan', 'Lioe-Fee De Geus-Oei', 'Peter J. K. Kuppen', 'Alexander L. Vahrmeijer', 'Elena B. Pasquale', 'Cornelis F. M. Sier'], u'November 24 2016', u'Targeted image-guided oncologic surgery (IGOS) relies on the recognition of cell surface-associated proteins, which should be abundantly present on the tumor cells but preferably absent on cells in surrounding healthy tissue. The transmembrane receptor tyrosine kinase EphA2, a member of the A class of the Eph receptor family, has been reported to be highly overexpressed in several tumor types including breast, lung, brain, prostate, and colon cancer, and is considered amongst the most promising cell membrane-associated tumor antigens by the NIH. Another member of the Eph receptor family belonging to the B class, EphB4, has also been found to be up-regulated in multiple cancer types. In this study, EphaA2 and EphB4 are evaluated as target for IGOS of colorectal cancer by immunohistochemistry (IHC) using a tissue microarray (TMA) consisting of 168 pairs of tumor and normal tissue. The IHC sections were scored for staining intensity and percentage of cells stained. The results show a significantly enhanced staining intensity and more widespread distribution in tumor tissue compared with adjacent normal tissue for EphA2 as well as EphB4. Based on its more consistently higher score in colorectal tumor tissue compared to normal tissue, EphB4 appears to be an especially promising candidate for IGOS of colorectal cancer.', u'/manuscript/201611.0121/v1', [u'Other'], [u'Department of Radiology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden 2333 ZA, The Netherlands', u'Percuros BV, Leiden 7522 NB, The Netherlands', u'Department of Surgery, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden 2333 ZA, The Netherlands', u'Department of Nuclear Medicine, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden 2333 ZA, The Netherlands', u'Sanford Burnham Prebys Medical Discovery Institute, La Jolla, CA 92037, USA', u'Antibodies for Research Applications BV, Gouda 2805 HT, The Netherlands']]
