[u'Newborn Care in the Home and Health Facility: Formative Findings for Intervention Research in Cambodia', ['Alessandra N. Bazzano', 'Leah D. Taub', 'Richard Oberhelman', 'Chivorn Var'], u'September 29 2016', u'Global coverage and scale up of interventions to reduce newborn mortality remains low, though progress has been achieved in improving newborn survival in many low-income settings. An important factor in the success of newborn health interventions, and moving to scale, is appropriate design of community-based programs and strategies for local implementation. We report the results of formative research undertaken to inform the design of a newborn health intervention in Cambodia. Information was gathered on newborn care practices over a period of three months using multiple qualitative methods of data collection in the primary health facility and home setting. Analysis of the data indicated important gaps, both at home and facility level, between recommended newborn care practices and those typical in the study area. The results of this formative research have informed strategies for behavior change and improving referral of sick infants in the subsequent implementation study. Collection and dissemination of data on newborn care practices from settings such as these can contribute to efforts to advance survival, growth and development of newborns for intervention research, and for future newborn health programming.', u'/manuscript/201609.0116/v1', [u'Pediatrics'], [u'Department of Global Community Health and Behavioral Sciences, Tulane School Public Health and Tropical Medicine, New Orleans, LA 70112, USA', u'Reproductive Health Association of Cambodia and National Institute of Public Health,  Phnom Penh, Cambodia']]
[u'Discovery of Potent Carbonic Anhydrase and Acetylcholinesterase Inhibitors: 2-Aminoindan \u03b2-Lactam Derivatives', ['Hayriye Genc', 'Ramazan Kalin', 'Zeynep Koksal', 'Nastaran Sadeghian', 'Umit M. Kocyigit', 'Mustafa Zengin', 'Ilhami Gulcin', 'Hasan Ozdemir'], u'September 30 2016', u'\u03b2-Lactams are pharmacologically important compounds because of their various biological uses, including antibiotic and so on. \u03b2-Lactams were synthesized from benzylidene-inden derivatives and acetoxyacetyl chloride. The inhibitory effect of these compounds was also examined for human carbonic anhydrase I and II (hCA I, and II) and acetylcholinesterase (AChE). The results reveal that \u03b2-lactams are inhibitors of hCA I, II and AChE. The Ki values of \u03b2-lactams (2a-k) were 0.44-6.29 nM against hCA I, 0.93-8.34 nM against hCA II, and 0.25-1.13 nM against AChE. Our findings indicate that \u03b2-lactams (2a-k) inhibit both CA isoenzymes and AChE at low nanomolar concentrations.', u'/manuscript/201609.0123/v1', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Arts and Sciences, Sakarya University, 54050 Sakarya, Turkey', u'Department of Basic Science, Faculty of Science, Erzurum Technical University, 25700 Erzurum, Turkey', u'Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Sciences, \xc4\xb0stanbul Medeniyet University, 34000 \xc4\xb0stanbul, Turkey', u'Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science, Atat\xc3\xbcrk University, 25030 Erzurum, Turkey', u'Vocational School of Health Services, Cumhuriyet University, 58140 Sivas, Turkey', u'Department of Zoology, College of Science, King Saud University, 12364 Riyadh, Saudi Arabia']]
