[u'Complementariness and Functional Parcellation of Neurotrophin Actions on the Oculomotor System', ['Beatriz Benitez-Temino', 'Maria A. Davis-Lopez De Carrizosa', 'Sara Morcuende', 'Esperanza R. Matarredona', 'Rosa R. de la Cruz', 'Angel M Pastor'], u'October 7 2016', u'Neurotrophins play a principal role in neuronal survival and differentiation during development, but also in the maintenance of appropriate adult neuronal circuits and phenotypes. In the oculomotor system, we have demonstrated that neurotrophins are key regulators of developing and adult neuronal properties, but with peculiarities depending on each neurotrophin. For instance, the administration of NGF, BDNF or NT-3 protects neonatal extraocular motoneurons from cell death after axotomy, but only NGF and BDNF prevent the downregulation in ChAT. In the adult, in vivo recordings of axotomized extraocular motoneurons have demonstrated that the delivery of NGF, BDNF or NT-3 recovers different components of the firing discharge activity of these cells, with some particularities in the case of NGF. All neurotrophins have also synaptotrophic activity, although to different degrees. Accordingly, neurotrophins can restore the axotomy-induced alterations acting selectively on different properties of the motoneuron. In this review we summarize these evidences and discuss them in the context of other motor systems.', u'/manuscript/201610.0014/v1', [u'Physiology'], [u'Departamento de Fisiolog\xeda, Facultad de Biolog\xeda, Universidad de Sevilla, Spain']]
[u'Health-Related Quality of Life and Lifestyle among Elderly Individuals Living Alone: A Cross-Sectional Study in an Urban Areas of Shaanxi Province, China', ['Ning Liu', 'Nadine E. Andrew', 'Dominique A. Cadilhac', 'CaiYan Wang', 'Yan Li', 'Zhe Li', 'Xuewen Yu'], u'October 7 2016', u'Recent social and economic reforms in China have resulted in an increase in the number of elderly Chinese living alone in Urban areas. The aim of this study was to describe the HRQoL of elderly Chinese individuals living alone in urban areas of the Shaanxi province and associated factors. Data were collected using a cross-sectional population-based survey. Older adults aged 65 years or more and living alone (without the support of a younger adult) were randomly sampled. HRQoL was measured using the 36-item Short Form Questionnaire. Multivariable linear regression was used to assess for factors associated with mental and physical health scores. 442 elderly Chinese completed the survey. Mean age was 74 years and 58.6% were female, actors independently associated with reduced MCS scores were older age, not being married and having a medical history of cancer, urinary tract disease, fractures or gastrointestinal disorders. Not being married and having hypertension were independently associated with poorer PCS scores. This is the first study to describe the HRQoL of the elderly living alone in urban areas of Shaanxi, China. Poor HRQoL in the elderly population was mainly influenced by chronic diseases and demographic factors.', u'/manuscript/201610.0019/v1', [u'Nursing & Health Studies'], [u'The Nursing Faculty, Zhu Hai Campus of ZunYi Medical University; Zhu Hai 519090, P. R. China', u'Translational Public Health Unit, Stroke and Ageing Research, Department of Medicine, School of Clinical Sciences, Monash University, Monash Health Research Precinct (MHRP) Building 1/,43-51 Kanooka Grove, Clayton VIC 3168', u'Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, 245 Burgundy St, Heidelberg VIC 3084, Australia', u'The First Affiliate Hospital of Xi\u2019an Jiaotong University. Xi\u2019an, Shaanxi Province 710061, P.R. China', u'School of Nursing, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University. Hong Kong', u'Network Operations Management Center, Zhu Hai Campus of ZunYi Medical University; Zhu Hai 519090, P. R. China']]
[u'Human Caveolin-1 a Potent Inhibitor for Prostate Cancer Therapy: A Computational\xa0Approach', ['Uzma Khanam', 'Pallavi Somvanshi', 'Shafiul Haque', 'Balwant Kishan Malik', 'Bhawna Rathi'], u'October 7 2016', u'Caveolin-1 (Cav-1) is 22 kDa caveolae protein, acts as a scaffold within caveolar membranes. It interacts with alpha subunits of G-protein and thereby regulates their activity. Earlier studies reported elevated or up-regulated levels of caveolin-1 in the serum of prostate cancer patients. Secreted Cav-1 promotes angiogenesis, cell proliferation and anti-apoptotic activities in prostate cancer patients. Cav-1 upregulation is mainly related to prostate cancer metastasis. Keeping above facts in view, the present study was designed to explore Cav-1 as a target for prostate cancer therapy using computational approach. Molecular docking, structural base molecular modelling and molecular dynamics simulations were performed to investigate Cav-1 inhibitors. A predictive model was generated and validated to establish a stable structure. ZINC database of biogenic compounds was used for induced fit docking (IFD) and high throughput virtual screening. The H-bond interactions of the compounds with active site residues of Cav-1 were estimated by IFD and 100 ns long molecular dynamic simulations. The reported compounds showed significant binding and thus can be considered as potent therapeutic inhibitors of Cav-1. This study provides a valuable insight into biochemical interactions of Cav-1 for therapeutic applications and warrants for experimental validation of the predicted \u2018active(s)\u2019.', u'/manuscript/201610.0016/v1', [u'Oncology & Oncogenics'], [u'Centre for Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, Amity Institute of Biotechnology, Amity University (Noida Campus), Noida-201301, India', u'Department of Biotechnology, TERI University, 10 Institutional Area, Vasant kunj, New Delhi-110070, India', u'Department of Biosciences, Jamia Millia Islamia (A Central University), New Delhi-110025, India', u'Research & Scientific Studies Unit, College of Nursing & Allied Health Sciences, Jazan University, Jazan-45142, Saudi Arabia', u'Department of Biotechnology, Sharda University, Greater Noida-201306, India']]
