[u'Vegetation Structure and Carbon Stocks of Two Protected Areas Within the South-Sudanian Savannas of Burkina Faso, West Africa', ['Mohammad Qasim', 'Stefan Porembski', 'Dietmar Sattler', 'Katharina Stein', 'Adjima Thiombiano', 'Andre Lindner'], u'August 15 2016', u'Savannas and adjacent vegetation types like gallery forests are highly valuable ecosystems contributing to several ecosystem services including carbon budgeting. Financial mechanisms such as REDD+ have provided an opportunity for developing countries to alleviate poverty through conservation of its forestry resources. For availing this opportunity carbon stock assessments are essential. Therefore, a research study at two protected areas i.e. Nazinga Game Ranch and Bontioli Nature Reserve, in Burkina Faso was conducted with the objective of assessing carbon Mg C ha-1 in aboveground biomass (AGB)dry of trees in different formations of the south-sudanian savanna in Burkina Faso, West Africa. Similarly analysis of various vegetation parameters was also conducted to understand the overall vegetation structure of these two protected areas. For estimating AGBdry, existing allometric equation for dry tropical woody vegetation types was used. The Importance Value Index (IVI) and Family Importance Value (FIV) were estimated through standard procedures. Various linear and non-linear regression analyses were conducted to test the relationships between carbon and other parameters such as DBH, height and basal area (BA). The results showed that both sites collectively contain mean carbon of 3.41 \xb1 4.98 Mg C ha-1. Amongst different vegetation types, gallery forests recorded the highest mean carbon of 9.38 \xb1 6.90 Mg C ha-1. The highest IVI of 115.56 at Nazinga Game Ranch was recorded for Anogeissus leiocarpa. Similarly, highest IVI of 98.59 was recorded for Mitragyna inermis at Bontioli Nature Reserve. The highest FIV was recorded for Combretaceae for both of the sites. To our knowledge, this was the first study conducted to assess the carbon stocks at the two protected areas in southern Burkina Faso. The study therefore was an attempt for addressing the knowledge gap particularly on carbon stocks of protected savannas. It could serve as a baseline for carbon stocks for future initiatives such as payment for environmental services and REDD+ at these areas.', u'/manuscript/201608.0154/v1', [u'Ecology'], [u'Institute of International Forestry and Forest Products, Technische Universit\xe4t Dresden, Pienner Strasse 7, 01737 Tharandt, Germany', u'Department of Botany, Institute of Biological Sciences, University of Rostock, Wismarsche Str. 8, 18051 Rostock, Germany', u'Department of Physical Geography and Geo-Ecology, Institute for Geography, University of Leipzig, Johannisallee 19a, 04103 Leipzig, Germany', u'Department of Animal Ecology and Tropical Biology, University of Wuerzburg, Josef-Martin-Weg 52, 97074 Wuerzburg, Germany', u'Laboratoire de Biologie et Ecologie V\xe9g\xe9tales, Universit\xe9 de Ouagadougou, UFR/SVT, 03 BP 7021 Ouagadougou 03, Burkina Faso', u'Centre for International Postgraduate Studies of Environmental Management \u2013 CIPSEM, Technische Universit\xe4t Dresden, Zellescher Weg 41c, 01207 Dresden, Germany']]
[u'Toxins Polypeptide That Interfere with the Flow of Calcium (Channels and Receptors Intra and Extra-Cellular)', ['Joao Silveira', 'Natacha Alves', 'Isaac Neto', 'Janaina Evangelista', 'Helena Monteiro', 'Paula Costa'], u'August 15 2016', u'The voltage-dependent calcium channels (Cav) are a family of multigene channel that plays an essential role in regulating a variety of cellular functions. These channels are categorized as type L-, N-, P / Q-, R- or T, based on their electrophysiological and pharmacological properties. Activation of these channels and Ca2 + entry is required in many physiological processes such as muscle contraction and release of hormones and neurotransmitters, and many others, for example in the contraction mechanism, and vascular relaxation.', u'/manuscript/201608.0150/v1', [u'Animal Sciences & Zoology'], [u'Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Federal University of Ceara, Fortaleza, Ceara, Brazil', u'Postgraduate Program in Veterinary Sciences, Faculty of Veterinary, State University of Ceara, Fortaleza, Ceara, Brazil']]
