[u'Determination of Wheat Growth, Crop Coefficient (KC) and Water Stress Coefficient (Ks) under Different Salinity', ['Meysam Abedinpour'], u'November 17 2016', u'A field experiment was conducted for determination of crop coefficient (KC) and water stress coefficient (Ks) for wheat crop under different salinity levels, during 2015-16. Complete randomized block design of five treatments were considered, i.e., 0.51 dS/m (fresh water) as a control treatment and other four saline water treatments (4, 6, 8 and 10 dS/m), for S1, S2, S3 and S4 with three replications. The results revealed that the water consumed by plants during the different crop growth stages follows the order of FW>S1>S2>S3>S4 salinity levels. According to the obtained results, the calculated values of crop coefficients significantly differed from those suggested by FAO No.56 for the crops. The Ks values clearly differ from one stage to another because the salt stress causes both osmotic stress, due to a decrease in the soil water potential, and ionic stress which the average values of water stress coefficient (Ks) follows this order; FW(1.0)=S1(1.0)>S2(1.0)>S3(0.93)>S4(0.82). Overall, it was found the differences are attributed primarily to specific cultivar, the changes in local climatic conditions and seasonal differences in crop growth patterns. Thus, further studies are essential to determine the crop coefficient values under different variables, to make the best management practice (BMP) in agriculture.', u'/manuscript/201611.0091/v1', [u'Agricultural Sciences & Agronomy'], [u'Water Engineering Department, Kashmar Higher Education Istitute, Kashmar, Iran']]
[u'Estimation of the Daily Salt Intake by 24-Hour Urinary Sodium Excretion in Morocco: A Pilot Study', ['Abdelfettah Derouiche', 'Younes El-Kardi', 'Karima Mohtadi', 'Ali Jafri'], u'November 17 2016', u'Introduction: Hypertension is a serious public health problem in Morocco. The objective of this pilot study was to estimate the salt intake of Moroccan adults by measuring 24-hour urinary sodium excretion. Methods: 132 participants were recruited from the central region of Morocco. Sodium, potassium and creatinine levels were measured using the 24-hour urine samples. Additional data included anthropometric measurements and socio-demographic questionnaire. Results: The daily sodium, potassium and creatinine excretions were 2779.1\xb11334.9 mg, 1350.0\xb1642.8 mg and 820.3 \xb1 381.2 mg, respectively. Data analysis revealed that 71.2% of the participants had a daily sodium intake more than 2000 mg (5g of salt) recommended by the WHO. The mean of potassium excretion was 1350.0\xb1642.8 mg /day, this average was lower than 3.51g per day recommended by the WHO. Conclusion: Public health measures to reduce sodium and increase potassium consumption in order to decrease the population\u2019s risk of high blood pressure and heart disease are recommended.', u'/manuscript/201611.0089/v1', [u'Nutrition'], [u'Research Unit of Human Nutrition, Research Laboratory of Biology and Health (URAC34), University Hassan 2 Casablanca, Casablanca 20100, Morocco']]
[u'Transcription Profile Unveils the Cardioprotective Effect of Aspalathin against Lipid Toxicity', ['Rabia Johnson', 'Phiwayinkosi V. Dludla', 'Christo J.F. Muller', 'Barbara Huisamen', 'M. Faadiel Essop', 'Johan Louw'], u'November 17 2016', u'Aspalathin, a C-glucosyl dihydrochalcone, has previously been shown to protect cardiomyocytes against hyperglycemia-induced shifts in substrate preference and subsequent apoptosis. However, the precise gene regulatory network remains to be elucidated. To unravel the mechanism and provide insight into this supposition, the direct effect of aspalathin in an isolated cell-based system, without the influence of any variables, was tested using an H9c2 cardiomyocytes model. Cardiomyocytes were exposed to high glucose (33 mM) for 48 hours before post-treatment with or without aspalathin. Thereafter, RNA was extracted and RT2 PCR Profiler Arrays were used to profile the expression of 336 genes. Results showed that, 57 genes were differentially regulated in the high glucose or high glucose and aspalathin treated groups. STRING analysis revealed lipid metabolism and molecular transport as the biological processes altered after high glucose treatment, followed by inflammation and apoptosis. Aspalathin was able to modulate key regulators associated with lipid metabolism (Adipoq, Apob, Cd36, Cpt1, Ppar\u03b3, Srebf1/2, Scd1 and Vldlr), insulin resistance (Igf1, Akt1, Pde3 and Map2k1), inflammation (Il3, Il6, Jak2, Lepr, Socs3, and Tnf13) and apoptosis (Bcl2 and Chuk). Collectively, our results propose that aspalathin could reverse metabolic abnormalities by activating Adipoq while modulating the expression of Ppar\u03b3 and Srebf1/2, decreasing inflammation via Il6/Jak2 pathway, which together with an observed increased expression of Bcl2 prevents myocardium apoptosis.', u'/manuscript/201611.0094/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Biomedical Research and Innovation Platform (BRIP), Medical Research Council (MRC), Tygerberg, South Africa', u'Division of Medical Physiology, Faculty of Health Sciences, Stellenbosch University, Tygerberg, South Africa', u'Cardio-Metabolic Research Group (CMRG), Department of Physiological Sciences, Stellenbosch University, Stellenbosch, South Africa']]
[u'Aspalathin Protects the Heart against Hyperglycemia-Induced Oxidative Damage by Up-regulating Nrf2 Expression', ['Phiwayinkosi V. Dludla', 'Christo J. F. Muller', 'Elizabeth Joubert', 'Johan Louw', 'M. Faadiel Essop', 'Kwazi B. Gabuza', 'Samira Ghoor', 'Barbara Huisamen', 'Rabia Johnson'], u'November 17 2016', u'Aspalathin (ASP) can protect H9c2 cardiomyocytes against high glucose (HG)-induced shifts in myocardial substrate preference, oxidative stress and apoptosis. While the protective mechanism of aspalathin remains unknown, nuclear factor (erythroid-derived 2)-like 2 (Nrf2) has emerged as a key factor for intracellular responses against oxidative stress. Therefore, we hypothesized that aspalathin protects the myocardium against hyperglycemia-induced oxidative damage by up-regulating Nrf2 expression in H9c2 cardiomyocytes and diabetic (db/db) mice. Using an oxidative stress RT2 Profiler PCR array, ASP at a dose of 1 \xb5M was demonstrated to protect H9c2 cardiomyocytes against HG-induced oxidative stress, but silencing of Nrf2 abolished this protective response of ASP and exacerbated cardiomyocyte apoptosis. Db/db mice and their non-diabetic (db/+) littermate controls were subsequently treated daily for 6 weeks with either a low (13 mg/kg) or high (130 mg/kg) ASP dose. Compared to nondiabetic mice the db/db mice presented increased cardiac remodeling and enlarged left ventricular wall that occurred concomitant to enhanced oxidative stress. Daily treatment of mice with ASP at a dose of 130 mg/kg for 6 weeks was more effective at reversing complications than both a low dose ASP or metformin, eliciting enhanced expression of Nrf2 and its downstream antioxidant genes. These results indicate that ASP maintains cellular homeostasis and protects the myocardium against hyperglycemia-induced stress through activation of Nrf2 and its downstream target genes.', u'/manuscript/201611.0093/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Biomedical Research and Innovation Platform (BRIP), Medical Research Council (MRC), Tygerberg, South Africa', u'Division of Medical Physiology, Faculty of Health Sciences, Stellenbosch University, Tygerberg, South Africa', u'Post-Harvest and Wine Technology Division, Agricultural Research Council (ARC) Infruitec- Nietvoorbij, Stellenbosch, South Africa', u'Department of Food Science, Stellenbosch University, Stellenbosch, South Africa', u'Cardio-Metabolic Research Group (CMRG), Department of Physiological Sciences, Stellenbosch University, Stellenbosch, South Africa']]
[u'Critical Minireview: The Fate of tRNACys during Oxidative Stress in Bacillus subtilis', ['Juan Campos Guillen', 'George H. Jones', 'Carlos Saldana Gutierrez', 'Jose Luis Hernandez Flores', 'Julio Alfonso Cruz Medina', 'Jose Humberto Valenzuela Soto', 'Sergio Pacheco Hernandez', 'Sergio Romero Gomez', 'Veronica Morales Tlalpan'], u'November 17 2016', u'Oxidative stress occurs when cells are exposed to elevated levels of reactive oxygen species that could damage biological molecules. One bacterial response to oxidative stress involves disulfide bond formation either between protein thiols or between protein thiols and low-molecular-weight thiols. Bacillithiol was recently identified as a major low-molecular-weight thiol in Bacillus subtilis and related Firmicutes. Four genes (bshA, bshB1, bshB2 and bshC) are involved in bacillithiol biosynthesis. The bshA and bshB1 genes are part of a seven-gene operon (ypjD), which includes the essential gene cca, encoding CCA-tRNA nucleotidyltransferase. The inclusion of cca in the operon containing bacillithiol biosynthetic genes suggests that the integrity of the 3\u2019 terminus of tRNAs may also be important in oxidative stress. Addition of the 3\xb4 terminal CCA sequence by CCA-tRNA nucleotidyltransferase to give a mature tRNA and functional molecules ready for aminoacylation plays an essential role during translation and expression of the genetic code. Any defects in these processes, for example, the accumulation of shorter and defective tRNAs under oxidative stress, could exert a deleterious effect on cells. This review summarizes the physiological link between tRNACys regulation and oxidative stress in Bacillus.', u'/manuscript/201611.0087/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Facultad de Qu\xedmica, Universidad Aut\xf3noma de Quer\xe9taro, Cerro d e las Campanas s/n,  Quer\xe9taro Qro., 76010, Mexico', u'Department of Biology, Emory University, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA', u'Facultad de Ciencias Naturales, Universidad Aut\xf3noma de Quer\xe9taro, Cerro de las Campanas s/n, Quer\xe9taro Qro., 76010, Mexico', u'Centro de Investigaci\xf3n y de Estudios Avanzados del IPN, P.O. Box 629, Irapuato 36500, GTO, M\xe9xico', u'Centro de Investigaci\xf3n en Qu\xedmica Aplicada, Blvd. Enrique Reyna Hermosillo No.140, Saltillo 25294, Coahuila, M\xe9xico', u'Facultad de Medicina, Universidad Aut\xf3noma de Quer\xe9taro, Cerro de las Campanas s/n,  Quer\xe9taro Qro., 76010, Mexico']]
