[u'Robots to the Rescue: A Review of Studies on Differential Medical Diagnosis Employing Ontology-Based Chat Bot Technology', ['Bosede Iyiade Edwards', 'Idris Oladele Muniru', 'Adrian David Cheok'], u'December 6 2016', u'Access to medical care is a global issue. Technology-aided approaches have been applied in addressing this. Interventions have however not focused on medical diagnosis as a fully automated procedure and available applications employ mainly text-based inputs rather than conversation in natural language. We explored the utility of ontology-based chatbot technology for the design of intelligent agents for medical diagnosis through a systematic review of the most recent related literature. English articles published in 2011-2016 returned 233 hits which yielded 11 relevant articles after a 3-stage screening. Findings showed that the creation of expert systems had been the focus of many the studies which utilize the physician-system-patient framework with system training based mostly on expert knowledge for designing web- or mobile phone-based applications that serve assistive purposes. Findings further indicated gaps in the design and evaluation of more effective systems deployable as standalone applications, for example, on an embodied robotic system. The need for technology supporting the physical examination part of diagnosis, connection to data sources on patients\u2019 vitals and medical history are also indicated in addition to the need for more qualitative work on natural language-based interaction. The system should be one that is continuously learning. Future works should also be directed towards the building of more robust knowledge base as well as evaluation of theory-based diagnostic methodological options', u'/manuscript/201612.0027/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], [u'Imagineering Institute (IDM Lab), 4, Lebuh Medini Utara, Nusajaya 79200, Malaysia', u'Universiti Teknologi Malaysia, Skudai, 81310, Johor, Malaysia', u'University of London, London WC1E 7HU, UK']]
[u'Influence of Gender on CMV Seropositivity in Non-A To G Hepatitis Virus Patients', ['Rand Farag', 'Dujana Alayobi', 'Hye-Joo Kwon', 'Afaf Elansary'], u'December 5 2016', u'Background Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is a major pathogen that cause remarkable rate of morbidity and mortality, especially in immunocompromised patients. It is important to find risk factors associated with CMV viremia. We studied the differences in CMV seropositivity in relation to liver function biomarkers in male and female Saudi population in an attempt to understand the variation in the CMV seroprevalence with sex and find the risk factor to develop liver dysfunction or hepatocellular carcinoma. Material and subjects: The CMV- IgG and IgM were screened in serum samples of 150 non- A-G hepatities patients with elevation of liver profiles (ALT, AST, ALP and GGT) and categorized as males and females. Samples were collected from different general hospitals and polyclinic in KSA from March 2014 to June 2015. A correlation between CMV seropositivity measured with both antibodies and liver enzymes were tested. Receiver operating characteristics (ROC) analysis and multiple regressions were done for the obtained data. Results: Our study shows that females had much higher IgG and IgM compared to age-matching males. A significant correlation between both antibodies and liver enzymes (AST, ALT) was recorded. Less significant correlation of both IgG and IgM with GGT was also observed. Receiver operating characteristics (ROC) analysis revealed that both IgG and IgM can be used as excellent predictive markers for CMV infection as both recorded 100% specificity and sensitivity together with area under the curve of 1 in males and females. Multiple regression analysis ascertain the correlation between both antibodies as dependent variables and liver enzymes as independent variables with ALT being the most affected enzyme with CMV seropositivity especially in females. Conclusion:he data discussed above This study shows that CMV is capable of initiating and accelerating liver dysfunction in both sexes. The high seroprevalence in females at reproductive age is especially important as they can transmit the virus to their developing fetus. Prevention of CMV infection in young girls 11-14 years old, through counseling on hygiene or possible future vaccination, may lead to a decrease of congenital CMV infections with the concomitant risk of developing liver dysfunction or hepatocellular carcinoma. Keywords: Cytomegalovirus, Alanine transaminase, Aspartate transaminase Alkaline phosphatase, \u03b3-Glutamyltranspeptidase, liver function.', u'/manuscript/201612.0026/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], [u'Assistant Prof of Virology and molecular microbiology, Health science Researches central, Princes Nora University (PNU), Kingdom Saudi Arabia (KSA)', u'Prof of Genetic, Biology department, Princes Nora University (PNU), Kingdom Saudi Arabia (KSA)', u'Assistant Prof of molecular biology, Biology department, Princes Nora University (PNU), Kingdom Saudi Arabia (KSA)', u'Prof Biochemistry, Central Labe, King Saud University (KSU)']]
