[u'Effects of 5-Aza-2\u2019 Deoxycytidine on Proliferation and Differentiation of Embryonic Chick Caudal Region Chondrocytes in Culture', ['Samina Hyder Haq'], u'August 19 2016', u'DNA methylation is one of the epigenetic mechanisms which have been implicated in cellular differentiation, ageing and disease development. The effect of hypomethylating drug 5-aza-2\u2019 deoxycytidine (5-aza dC) on the biosynthetic profile of caudal region chondrocytes from chick sternum was studied in detail. The chondrocytes in culture were treated with varying doses of 5-aza dC for 48h and maintained subsequently without the treatment and harvested at selected time points for analysis of growth and differentiation status. 15\xb5g/ml of 5-aza dC showed optimum Concentration at which there was a significant increase in DNA synthesis and RNA synthesis as per cell basis. There was also a significant increase in total protein synthesis and collagen synthesis as per cell basis at this concentration. This optimal concentration also showed to up regulate the gene expression of Type X collagen and alkaline phosphatase, which are the marker of hypertrophic chondrocyte expression. These results further support the notion that methylation is the major epigenetic factor controlling the differentiation and maturation of chondrocytes', u'/manuscript/201608.0176/v1', [u'Other'], [u'Department of Biochemistry, College of Science, King Saud University, Riyadh P.O. 11362, Saudi Arabia']]
[u'Information Relevant to the Understanding and Conservation of the Ivory-Billed Woodpecker (Campephilus principalis)', ['Michael Collins'], u'August 18 2016', u'A failure to recognize that the Ivory-billed Woodpecker (Campephilus principalis) is an exceptional case that calls for a different approach has impeded progress in the understanding and conservation of this iconic species. Due to a combination of factors related to behavior and habitat, the expected waiting time for obtaining a clear photo of an Ivory-billed Woodpecker must be several orders of magnitude greater than it would be for a more typical species of comparable rarity. It seems unlikely that such evidence will be obtained in time to make a difference in the conservation of this species, but there is no logical justification for insisting upon a particular type of evidence. Three videos that were obtained during encounters with birds that were identified in the field as Ivory-billed Woodpeckers show flights, behaviors, field marks, and other characteristics that are consistent with this species but do not seem to be consistent with any other species of the region.', u'/manuscript/201608.0171/v1', [u'Animal Sciences & Zoology'], [u'Department of Mathematical Sciences, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, NY 12180, USA']]
