[u'Anti-inflammatory Activity of Sanghuangporus sanghuang Mycelium', ['Wang-Ching Lin', 'Jeng-Shyan Deng', 'Shyh-Shyun Huang', 'Sheng-Hua Wu', 'Chin-Chu Chen', 'Wan-Rong Lin', 'Hui-Yi Lin', 'Guan-Jhong Huang'], u'December 7 2016', u'Acute lung injury (ALI) is characterized by inflammation of the lung tissue and oxidative injury caused by excessive accumulation of reactive oxygen species. Studies have suggested that anti-inflammatory or antioxidant agents could be used for the treatment of ALI with a good outcome. Therefore, our study aimed to test whether the mycelium extract of Sanghuangporus sanghuang (SS-1), believed to exhibit antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, could be used against the excessive inflammatory response associated with LPS-induced ALI in mice and to investigate its possible mechanism of action. The experimental results showed that the administration of SS-1 could inhibit LPS-induced inflammation. SS-1 could reduce the number of inflammatory cells, inhibit MPO activity, regulate the TLR4/PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway and the signal transduction of NF-\u03baB and MAPK pathways in the lung tissue, and inhibit HNGB1 activity in BALF. In addition, SS-1 could affect the synthesis of antioxidant enzymes HO-1 and Trx-1 in the lung tissue and regulate signal transduction in the KAP1/Nrf2/Keap1 pathway. Histological results showed that administration of SS-1 prior to induction could inhibit the large-scale LPS-induced neutrophil infiltration of the lung tissue. Therefore, based on all experimental results, we propose that SS-1 exhibits a protective effect against LPS-induced (ALI) in mice. The mycelium of S. sanghuang can potentially be used for the treatment or prevention of inflammation-related diseases', u'/manuscript/201612.0042/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], [u'School of Pharmacy, China Medical University, Taichung 404, Taiwan', u'Department of Health and Nutrition Biotechnology, Asia University, Taichung 413, Taiwan', u'Department of Biology, National Museum of Natural Science, Taichung 404, Taiwan', u'Grape King Biotechnology Center, Chung-Li City 320, Taiwan', u'Department of Chinese Pharmaceutical Sciences and Chinese Medicine Resources, College of Pharmacy, China Medical University, Taichung 404, Taiwan']]
[u'Potential Enhanced Survivorship of Crown of Thorns Starfish Larvae due to Near-Annual Nutrient Enrichment during Secondary Outbreaks on the Central Mid-Shelf of the Great Barrier Reef, Australia', ['Jon Brodie', 'Michelle Devlin', 'Stephen Lewis'], u'December 7 2016', u'The Great Barrier Reef (GBR) is currently experiencing widespread crown of thorns starfish (CoTS) outbreaks as part of the fourth wave of outbreaks since 1962. It is believed that outbreaks have become more frequent on the GBR and elsewhere in the Indo-Pacific associated with anthropogenic causes. The two widely accepted potential causes are (1) anthropogenic nutrient enrichment leading to increased biomass of phytoplankton, the food of the planktonic stage of larval CoTS; and (2) overfishing of predators on the juvenile to adult stages of CoTS, for example, commercial fished species such as coral trout. In this study, we show the evidence for the nutrient enrichment causation hypothesis is strong based on a large number of recent studies in the GBR. We also hypothesise that secondary outbreaks in the region between Cairns and Townsville can also be enhanced by nutrient enriched conditions associated with the annual nutrient discharge from Wet Tropics rivers.', u'/manuscript/201612.0041/v1', [u'Other'], [u'ARC Centre of Excellence for Coral Reef Studies, James Cook University, Townsville QLD 4811, Australia', u'Coasts, Climate, Oceans Consulting (C2O), Townsville QLD 4810, Australia', u'The Centre for Environment, Fisheries and Aquaculture Science (Cefas), Lowestoft NR33 0HT, UK', u'TropWATER, James Cook University, Townsville QLD 4811, Australia']]
