[u'Impaired Adipose Tissue Expansion Caused by LXR Activation is Associated with Insulin Resistance in HFD Mice', ['Yueting Dong', 'Zhiye Xu', 'Ziyi Zhang', 'Xueyao Yin', 'Xihua Lin', 'Qianqian Pan', 'Hong Li', 'Fenping Zheng'], u'October 10 2016', u'Liver X receptors (LXR) are deemed as potential drug targets for atherosclerosis, whereas a role in adipose tissue expansion and its relation to insulin sensitivity remains unclear. To assess the metabolic effects of LXR activation, C57BL/6 mice on a high-fat diet (HFD) were treated with the dual LXR\u03b1/\u03b2 agonist T0901317 (30 mg/kg per day) for 3 weeks. Differentiated 3T3-L1 was used for analysing the effect of T0901317 on glucose uptake.T0901317 reduced fat mass, accompanied by a massive fatty liver and lower adipokine levels in circulation of HFD mice. Increased adipocyte apoptosis and macrophage infiltration were found in epididymal fat of T0901317-treated HFD mice. In addition, T0901317 treatment promoted basal lipolysis, but blunted the anti-lipolytic action of insulin. Furthermore, LXR activation antagonized PPAR\u03b3 target genes in epididymal fat and PPAR\u03b3-PPRE binding activity in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. Although the glucose tolerance was comparable to that in vehicle-treated HFD mice, the insulin tolerance was significantly decreased in T0901317-treated HFD mice, indicating decreased insulin sensitivity by T0901317 administration, and which was further supported by impaired insulin signalling found in epididymal fat and decreased insulin-induced glucose uptake in 3T3-L1 by T0901317administration. These findings reveal that LXR activation impairs adipose expansion which contributes to decreased insulin sensitivity.', u'/manuscript/201610.0027/v1', [u'Physiology'], [u'Department of Endocrinology, Sir Run Run Shaw Hospital Affiliated with School of Zhejiang University,  3 East Qingchun Road, Hangzhou 310016, China', u'Biomedical Research Center and Key Laboratory of Biotherapy of Zhejiang Province,  Sir Run Run Shaw Hospital Affiliated with School of Zhejiang University, 3 East Qingchun Road,  Hangzhou 310016, China']]
[u'Particulate Matter and Respiratory Symptoms among Adults Living in Windhoek, Namibia; a Cross Sectional Descriptive Study', ['Ndinomholo Hamatui', 'Caryl Beynon'], u'October 10 2016', u'The study aimed to estimate the prevalence of respiratory symptoms and to assess respiratory health risks associated with Particulate Matter (PM) exposure among the residents of Windhoek, Namibia. Objectives: To measure particulate pollution concentration in Windhoek through monitoring of particulate matter concentration and to identify any associations between particulate pollution, individual location and respiratory health among the Windhoek resident\u2019s. Methods: an adapted standardized self-administered questionnaire was used to collect respiratory health related data as well as previous exposure, while PM monitoring was done using ASTM D1739 reference method. Results: A high prevalence was observed for cough (43%), breathlessness (25%), and Asthma (11.2%). PM was found to be a significant risk factor for episode of cough and phlegm, while high PM exposure category had increased odds ratio for episode of phlegm and cough (OR: 2.5, 95% CI: 0.8-8.0). No association was observed between location and respiratory health outcomes. Conclusion: The study found high levels of PM concentration across all Windhoek suburbs which were above the German, American and EPA. Enactment of legislation relating to the control and monitoring of PM related emissions at point of generation is required at country and city level.', u'/manuscript/201610.0030/v1', [u'Nursing & Health Studies'], [u'Department of Health Sciences, Namibia University of Science and Technology, Private Bag,  13388 Windhoek, Namibia', u'Laureate Online Education/University of Liverpool, Liverpool L69 3BX, UK']]
[u'Mercury Exposure and Heart Diseases', ['Giuseppe Genchi', 'Maria Stefania Sinicropi', 'Alessia Carocci', 'Graziantonio Lauria', 'Alessia Catalano'], u'October 10 2016', u'Environmental contamination has exposed humans to various metal agents, including mercury. It has been determined that mercury is not only harmful to the health of vulnerable populations such as pregnant women and children, but is also toxic to ordinary adults in various ways. For many years, mercury was used in a wide variety of human activities. Nowadays, the exposure to this metal from both natural and artificial sources is significantly increasing. Recent studies suggest that chronic exposure, even to low concentration levels of mercury, can cause cardiovascular, reproductive and developmental toxicity, neurotoxicity, nephrotoxicity, immunotoxicity, and carcinogenicity. Possible biological effects of mercury, including the relationship between mercury toxicity and diseases of the cardiovascular system, such as hypertension, coronary heart disease and myocardial infarction, are being studied. As heart rhythm and function are under autonomic nervous system control, it has been hypothesized that the neurotoxic effects of mercury might also impact cardiac autonomic function. Mercury exposure could have a long-lasting effect on cardiac parasympathetic activity and some evidence show that mercury exposure might affect heart rate variability, particularly early exposures in children. The mechanism by which mercury produces toxic effects on the cardiovascular system is not fully elucidated, but this mechanism is believed to involve an increase in oxidative stress. The exposure to mercury increases the production of free radicals, potentially because of the role of mercury in the Fenton reaction and a reduction in the activity of antioxidant enzymes, such as glutathione peroxidase. In this review we report an overview on the toxicity of mercury and focus our attention on the toxic effects on the cardiovascular system.', u'/manuscript/201610.0028/v1', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'Dipartimento di Farmacia e Scienze della Salute e della Nutrizione, Universit\xe0 della Calabria, 87036 Arcavacata di Rende (Cosenza), Italy', u'Dipartimento di Farmacia-Scienze del Farmaco, Universit\xe0 degli Studi di Bari \u201cA. Moro\u201d,  70125 Bari, Italy']]
