[u'Biomass Equations for 24 Understory Species in Coniferous and Broadleaved Mixed Forests in Northeastern China', ['Huaijiang He', 'Chunyu Zhang', 'Fengguo Du', 'Xiuhai Zhao', 'Song Yang', 'Qiang Zuo'], u'November 28 2016', u'Understory plants are important components of forest ecosystem productivity and diversity. Compared to biomass models of overstory canopy trees, few are available for understory saplings and shrubs and therefore their roles in estimation of forest carbon pools are often ignored. In this study, we harvested 24 understory species including 4 saplings, 9 tree-like shrubs and 11 typical shrubs in coniferous and broadleaved mixed forest in northeastern China and developed the best fit allometric equations of above- and below-ground and total biomass by species-specific or multispecies using morphological measurements of basal diameter, height and crown area as independent variables. The result showed that single basal diameter, height or crown area had good explanatory power for both species-specific and multispecies (p<0.001). The best-fit models included only basal diameter in sapling and tree-like shrubs, and combinations of crown area, height, and basal diameter in typical shrubs. The logarithmic model was most desired among the 4 model forms of linear, quadratic, multiple linear and logarithmic, for species-specific and multispecies. The models we developed should help the estimation of forest ecosystem carbon stocks, especially for belowground component, and provide tools for quantification of individual species biomass of understory plants.', u'/manuscript/201611.0140/v1', [u'Forestry'], [u'Key Laboratory for Forest Resources & Ecosystem Processes, Beijing Forestry University,  Beijing 100083, China', u'Forestry College, Beihua University, Jilin 130013, China']]
[u'Review of Computational Methods on Brain Symmetric and Asymmetric Analysis from Neuroimaging Techniques', ['P. Kalavathi', 'K. Senthamilselvi', 'V. B. Surya Prasath'], u'November 28 2016', u"Brain is the most complex organ in the human body and it is divided into two hemispheres - left and right hemispheres. Left hemisphere is responsible for control of right side of our body whereas right hemisphere is responsible for control of left side of our body. Brain image segmentation from different neuroimaging modalities is one of the important parts in clinical diagnostic tools. Neuroimaging based digital imagery generally contain noise, inhomogeneity, aliasing artifacts, and orientational deviations. Therefore, accurate segmentation of brain images is a very difficult task. However, the development of accurate segmentation of brain images is very important and crucial for a correct diagnosis of any brain related diseases. One of the fundamental segmentation tasks is to identify and segment inter-hemispheric fissure/mid-sagittal plane, which separate the two hemispheres of the brain. Moreover, the symmetric/asymmetric analyses of left and right hemispheres of brain structures are important for radiologists to analyze diseases such as Alzheimer's, Autism, Schizophrenia, Lesions and Epilepsy. Therefore, in this paper we have analyzed the existing computational techniques used to find brain symmetric/asymmetric analysis in various neuroimaging techniques (MRI/CT/PET/SPECT), which are utilized for detecting various brain related disorders.", u'/manuscript/201611.0138/v1', [u'Clinical Neurology'], [u'Department of Computer Science and Applications, Gandhigram Rural Institute, Deemed University, Gandhigram 624 302, Tamil Nadu, India', u'Computational Imaging and VisAnalysis (CIVA) Lab, Department of Computer Science, University of Missouri-Columbia, Columbia, MO 65211, USA']]
