[u'Abdominal Obesity and Gastroesophageal Cancer Risk: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Prospective Studies', ['Khemayanto Hidayat', 'Xuan Du', 'Bimin Shi'], u'September 2 2016', u'Backgrounds: the relations of waist circumference (WC) and waist to hip ratio (WHR) to total gastroesophageal cancer, gastric cancer and esophageal cancer are remains largely unexplored. Methods: PubMed and Web of Science databases were searched for studies assessing the association between abdominal obesity and gastroesophageal cancer (gastric cancer and/or esophageal cancer) up to August 2016. A random-effect model was used to calculate the summary risk estimates. Results: Seven prospective cohort studies\u2014one publication included two separate cohort\u2014from six publications were included in the final analysis. A total of 2,130 gastroesophageal cancer cases diagnosed among 913,182 participants. Greater WC and WHR were significantly associated with increased risk of total gastroesophageal cancer (WC: RR 1.68, 95% CI 1.38, 2.04; WHR: RR 1.49, 95% CI 1.19, 1.88), gastric cancer (WC: RR 1.48, 95% CI 1.24, 1.78; WHR: 1.36, 95% CI 1.07, 1.73), and esophageal cancer (WC: RR 2.06, 95% CI 1.30, 3.24; WHR: RR 1.99, 95% CI 1.05, 3.75). Findings from our subgroup analyses showed non-significant positive associations between gastric non-cardia adenocarcinoma and both measures of abdominal adiposity, while gastric non-cardia adenocarcinoma was positively associated with WC but not with WHR. On analysis restricted to studies that adjusted for BMI, WC was positively associated with gastric cancer and esophageal cancer, whereas WHR was positively associated with risk of gastric cancer only. Conclusions: Although limited, the findings from our meta-analysis suggest the potential role of abdominal obesity in the etiology of gastric and esophageal cancers.', u'/manuscript/201609.0004/v1', [u'Gastroenterology'], [u'Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, the First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University,  Suzhou 215006, China']]
[u'ODK Scan: Digitizing Data Collection and Impacting Data Management Processes in the Tuberculosis Control Program of Pakistan', ['Syed Mustafa Ali', 'Rachel Powers', 'Jeffrey Beorse', 'Farah Naureen', 'Arif Noor', 'Naveed Anjum', 'Muhammad Ishaq', 'Javariya Aamir', 'Richard Anderson'], u'September 2 2016', u'The present grievous situation of the tuberculosis disease can be improved by efficient case management and timely follow-up evaluations. With the advent of digital technology this can be achieved by quick summarization of the patient-centric data. The aim of our study was to assess the effectiveness of the ODK Scan paper-to-digital system during testing period of three months. A sequential, explanatory mixed-method research approach was employed to elucidate technology use. Training, smartphones, application and 3G enabled SIMs were provided to the four field workers. At the beginning, baseline measures of the data management aspects were recorded and compared with endline measures to see the impact of ODK Scan. Additionally, at the end, users\u2019 feedback was collected regarding app usability, user interface design and workflow changes. 122 patients\u2019 records were retrieved from the server and analysed for quality. It was found that ODK Scan recognized 99.2% of multiple choice bubble responses and 79.4% of numerical digit responses correctly. However, the overall quality of the digital data was decreased in comparison to manually entered data. Using ODK Scan, a significant time reduction is observed in data aggregation and data transfer activities, however, data verification and form filling activities took more time. Interviews revealed that field workers saw value in using ODK Scan, however, they were more concerned about the time consuming aspects of the use of ODK Scan. Therefore, it is concluded that minimal disturbance in the existing workflow, continuous feedback and value additions are the important considerations for the implementing organization to ensure technology adoption and workflow improvements.', u'/manuscript/201608.0232/v2', [u'Nursing & Health Studies'], [u'Mercy Corps, Pak Palace, Murree Road, Rawal Chowk,  Islamabad 44000, Pakistan', u'Information Systems, Village Reach, Seattle, WA 98102, USA', u'Computer Science and Engineering, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98105, USA']]
[u'ESWT Enhances Expression of Pdia-3 which is a Key Factor of 1\u03b1,25-Dihydroxyvitamin D3 Rapid Membrane Signaling Pathway in Treatment of Early Osteoarthritis Knee', ['Shan-Ling Hsu', 'Jai-Hong Cheng', 'Ching-Jen Wang', 'Jih-Yang Ko', 'Chih-Hsiang Hsu'], u'September 1 2016', u'Dysregulation of cartilage homeostasis and the changes in the density and the architecture of the subchondral bone were postulated as a potent mechanically pathological activity contributing to osteoarthritis (OA) pathogenesis. Extracorporeal shockwave therapy (ESWT) is a new, none invasive and effective method in the treatment of animal OA model. In the current study, we demonstrated that shockwave induced the expression of protein-disulfide isomerase-associated 3 (Pdia-3) which is a multifunctional protein hypothesized to be a significant mediator for 1\u03b1,25-Dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1\u03b1,25(OH)2D3) signaling pathway using two-dimensional electrophoresis. Histological analysis and quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) were verified and observed that the expression of Pdia-3 at 2 weeks was significantly higher than that of any other group at 4 weeks, 8 weeks, and 12 weeks post-shockwave treatment in early OA knee of rat. The other factors of the 1\u03b1,25(OH)2D3 rapid membrane signaling pathway including extracellular signal-regulated protein kinases 1 (ERK1), osteopontin (OPG), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), and matrix metallopeptidase 13 (MMP13) were measured and significantly increased by qPCR at 2 weeks post-shockwave treatment in early OA knee. Our proteomic data revealed significant Pdia-3 expression in microenvironments of joint tissue that could be actively responded to ESWT, which may potentially regulate biological function of chondrocytes and osteoblasts in the treatment of OA knee.', u'/manuscript/201609.0001/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], [u'Center for Shockwave Medicine and Tissue Engineering, Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital and Chang Gung University College of Medicine, Kaohsiung 833, Taiwan', u'Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital and Chang Gung University College of Medicine, Kaohsiung 833, Taiwan', u'Medical Research, Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital and Chang Gung University College of Medicine, Kaohsiung 833, Taiwan']]
