[u'Environmental Tipping Points for Sperm Motility, Fertilization, and Embryonic Development in the Crown-of-Thorns Starfish, Acanthaster cf. solaris', ['Ciemon Frank Caballes', 'Morgan S. Pratchett', 'Maia L. Raymundo', 'Jairo A. Rivera-Posada'], u'December 1 2016', u'For broadcast spawning invertebrates such as the crown-of-thorns starfish, early life history stages (from spawning to settlement) may be exposed to a wide range of environmental conditions, and could have a major bearing on reproductive success and population replenishment. Arrested development in response to multiple environmental stressors at the earliest stages can be used to define lower and upper limits for normal development. Here, we compared sperm swimming speeds and proportion of motile sperm and rates of fertilization and early development under a range of environmental variables (temperature: 20-36\xb0C, salinity: 20-34 psu, and pH: 7.6-8.2) to identify environmental tipping points and thresholds for reproductive success. We also tested the effects of water-soluble compounds derived from eggs on sperm activity. Our results demonstrate that gametes, fertilization, and early development are robust to a wide range of temperature, salinity, and pH levels that are outside the range found at the geographical limits of adult distribution and can tolerate environmental conditions that exceed expected anomalies as a result of climate change. Water-soluble compounds associated with eggs also enhance sperm activity, particularly in environmental conditions where sperm motility is initially limited. These findings suggest that fertilization and embryonic development of crown-of-thorns starfish are tolerant to a wide range of environmental conditions, though environmental constraints on recruitment success may occur at later ontogenic stages.', u'/manuscript/201612.0010/v1', [u'Animal Sciences & Zoology'], [u'ARC Centre of Excellence for Coral Reef Studies, James Cook University, Townsville, QLD 4811, Australia', u'School of Biological Sciences, University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD 4072, Australia', u'Academic Environmental Corporation, Universidad de Antioquia, Medell\xedn, Antioquia, Colombia']]
[u'Immunization with E Plus NS1-2a Enhanced Protection against Dengue Virus Serotype 2 in Mice', ['Yanhua Wu', 'Shuyu Fang', 'Xiaoyun Cui', 'Na Gao', 'Dongying Fan', 'Jing An'], u'December 1 2016', u'Dengue virus (DENV), the causative agent of dengue fever (DF), is one of the most important mosquito-borne viruses that can infect humans. Although much effort has been made on prevention and control of dengue, there are currently no anti-viral drugs or worldwide approved vaccines yet. In this study, we immunized six-week-old Balb/c mice with DNA vaccine candidates E and NS1-2a of DENV serotype 2 or the combination of them (E+NS1-2a) via an electroporation (EP)-assisted intramuscular gene delivery system and evaluated the immune response and protection. The highest specific antibody titres and cytokine levels secreted by splenocytes as well as the highest survival rate were observed in the E+NS1-2a group, followed by E group and NS1-2a group. Our data suggested that the combination of E and NS1-2a delivered by EP may be a superior preventive strategy against DENV.', u'/manuscript/201612.0006/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], [u'Department of Microbiology, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Capital Medical University, Beijing, 100069, China']]
