[u'Coupling Fine-Scale Root and Canopy Structure Using Ground-Based Remote Sensing', ['Brady S. Hardiman', 'Christopher M. Gough', 'John R. Butnor', 'Gil Bohrer', 'Matteo Detto', 'Peter S. Curtis'], u'October 21 2016', u'Ecosystem physical structure, defined by the quantity and spatial distribution of biomass, influences a range of ecosystem functions. Remote sensing tools permit the non-destructive characterization of canopy and root features, potentially providing opportunities to link above- and belowground structure at fine spatial resolution in functionally meaningful ways. To test this possibility, we employed ground-based portable canopy lidar (PCL) and ground penetrating radar (GPR) along co-located transects in forested sites spanning multiple stages of ecosystem development and, consequently, of structural complexity. We examined canopy and root structural data for coherence at multiple spatial scales \u2264 10 m within each site using wavelet analysis. Forest sites varied substantially in vertical canopy and root structure, with leaf area index and root mass more evenly distributed by height and depth, respectively, as forests aged. In all sites, above- and belowground structure, characterized as mean maximum canopy height and root mass, exhibited significant coherence at a scale of 3.5-4 meters, and results suggest that the scale of coherence may increase with stand age. Our findings demonstrate that canopy and root structure are linked at characteristic spatial scales, which provides the basis to optimize scales of observation. Our study highlights the potential, and limitations, for fusing lidar and radar technologies to quantitatively couple above- and belowground ecosystem structure.', u'/manuscript/201610.0088/v1', [u'Ecology'], [u'Department of Forestry and Natural Resources & Division of Environmental and Ecological Engineering, Purdue University, West Layafette, IN 47907, USA', u'Department of Evolution, Ecology and Organismal Biology, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH 43210, USA', u'Department of Biology and Environmental Studies, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA 23284, USA', u'USDA Forest Service, Southern Research Station, 81 Carrigan Drive, Burlington, VT 05405, USA', u'Department of Civil, Environmental and Geodetic Science, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH 43210, USA', u'Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, Unit 9100, Box 0948, DPO AA 34002-9998, USA']]
[u'Determination of Plant Density on Groundnut (Arachis hypogaea L.) Intercropped with Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L. Moench) at Fadis and Erer of Eastern Hararghe', ['Habte Berhanu', 'Adugna Hunduma', 'Gazu Degefa', 'Zeleke Legesse', 'Fuad Abdulselam', 'Fiqadu Tadese'], u'October 20 2016', u'In eastern part of Ethiopia groundnut is very commonly intercropped with sorghum. Even though intercropping of sorghum with groundnut is practiced in the eastern part of Ethiopia the population density at what ratio should not be known. Therefore determining the population ratio is found to be crucial to draw management options.\xa0 The study was conducted at two locations at Fadis (on station) and Babile (sub- station).\xa0 Sorghum variety (Teshale) and groundnut (Fetene) were used as planting materials. All agronomic data were collected and analyzed by using GenStat software. Significant different were obtained among the treatments. The research result showed that, there were significance difference for both sorghum and ground nut yield per hectare in the years (2014 and 2015) among treatments. The result over time(in 2014 and 2015) at Fadis and Erer showed that the highest sorghum and groundnut yield per hectare were obtained/harvested from the intra row spacing of 25cmx20cm and 30cmx20cm intercropping sorghum with ground nut system with (1.27 and 1.31) respectively. The highest LER (1.31) and highest GMV (10218.00 ETBr/ha) were obtained from the intercropping of 30cmx20cm (Sorghum & groundnut). Clearly showed that, with intercropping of sorghum and Groundnut, it is possible to produce additional yield of sorghum without significant reduction in groundnut yield. As a result of this, the intra spacing of the main crop (sorghum) 25cm and 30cm and for the subsidiary crop (groundnut) 20cm was recommended for further production in the study areas of eastern Harerghe zone and similar agro-ecologies.', u'/manuscript/201610.0084/v1', [u'Agricultural Sciences & Agronomy'], [u'Pulse and Oil Crop Research Division, Fedis Agricultural Research Center, Harar, Ethiopia']]
[u'UPEI-400, a Conjugate of Lipoic Acid and Scopoletin, Mediates Neuroprotection in a Rat Model of Ischemia/Reperfusion', ['Barry J. Connell', 'Monique C. Saleh', 'Desikan Rajagopal', 'Tarek M. Saleh'], u'October 20 2016', u'Background: Previously, our laboratory has provided evidence that pre-administration of the antioxidant, lipoic acid covalently bonded to various naturally occurring antioxidants, enhanced neuroprotective capacity compared to the administration of lipoic acid on its own. The naturally occurring compound scopoletin, a coumarin derivative, has been shown in various in vitro studies to have both antioxidant and anti-inflammatory mechanism of actions. To date, the effect of scopoletin on neuronal cell death in an in vivo model of ischemia or ischemia-reperfusion has not been investigated. Therefore, the present investigation was designed to determine if scopoletin on its own, or a co-drug consisting of lipoic acid and scopoletin covalent bond, named UPEI-400, would be capable of demonstrating a similar neuroprotective efficacy. Methods: Using a rodent model of stroke in male rats (anesthetized with Inactin\xae; 100 mg/kg, iv), the middle cerebral artery was permanently occluded for 6 hours (pMCAO), or in separate animals, occluded for 30 min followed by 5.5 hrs of reperfusion (ischemia/reperfusion; I/R). Results: Pre-administration of either scopoletin or UPEI-400 significantly decreased infarct volume in the I/R model (p<0.05), but not in the pMCAO model of stroke. However, UPEI-400 was ~1000 times more potent as compared to scopoletin on its own. The optimal dose of UPEI-400 was then injected during the occlusion and at several time points during reperfusion and significant neuroprotection was observed for up to 150 mins following the start of reperfusion (p<0.05). Conclusion: The data suggest that synthetic combination of scopoletin with lipoic acid (UPEI-400) is a more effective neuroprotectant that either compound on their own. Also, since UPEI-400 was only effective in a model of I/R, it is possible that it may act to enhance neuronal antioxidant capacity and/or upregulate anti-inflammatory pathways to prevent the neuronal cell death.', u'/manuscript/201610.0083/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], [u'Department of Biomedical Science, Atlantic Veterinary College,  University of Prince Edward Island, Charlottetown, PE C1A 4P3, Canada', u'Department of Chemistry & Pharmaceutical Chemistry, School of Advanced Sciences,  VIT University, Vellore 632014, India', u'Department of Biomedical Science, Ontario Veterinary College, University of Guelph, Guelph, ON N1G 2W1, Canada']]
