[u'TGF-\u03b2 and Physiological Root Resorption of Deciduous Teeth', ['Emi Shimazaki', 'Takeo Karakida', 'Ryuji Yamamoto', 'Saeko Kobayashi', 'Makoto Fukae', 'Yasuo Yamakoshi', 'Yoshinobu Asada'], u'October 27 2016', u'The present study was performed to examine that transforming growth factor beta (TGF-\u03b2) in root-surrounding tissues on deciduous teeth during the physiological root resorption regulates the differentiation induction into odontoclast. We prepared root-surrounding tissues with (R) or without (N) physiological root resorption scraped off at three regions (R1-R3 or N1-N3) from the cervical area to the apical area of the tooth and measured both TGF-\u03b2 and the tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP) activities. The TGF-\u03b2 activity level was increased in N1-N3, whereas the TRAP activity was increased in R2 and R3. In vitro experiments for RANKL-mediated osteoclast differentiation revealed that TGF-\u03b2 in N1-N3 and R1-R3 enhanced the TRAP activity in RAW264 cells. A genetic study indicated that the mRNA level of TGF-\u03b21 in N1 and N2 was significantly increased, and corresponded with that of osteoprotegerin (OPG). In contrast, the expression level of receptor activator of NF-\u03baB ligand (RANKL) was increased in R2 and R3. Our findings suggest that TGF-\u03b2 is closely related to the regulation of OPG induction and RANKL-mediated odontoclast differentiation depending on the timing of RANKL and OPG mRNA expression in the root-surrounding tissues of deciduous teeth during physiological root resorption.', u'/manuscript/201610.0121/v1', [u'Other'], [u'Department of Pediatric Dentistry, School of Dental Medicine, Tsurumi University, 2-1-3 Tsurumi, Tsurumi-ku, Yokohama 230-8501, Japan', u'Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, School of Dental Medicine, Tsurumi University, 2-1-3 Tsurumi, Tsurumi-ku, Yokohama 230-8501, Japan']]
[u'Adding Agnus Castus and Magnolia to Soy Isoflavones Relieves Sleep Disturbances besides Postmenopausal Vasomotor Symptoms: Long Term Safety and Effectiveness', ['Pasquale De Franciscis', 'Flavio Grauso', 'Anna Luisi', 'Maria Teresa Schettino', 'Marco Torella', 'Nicola Colacurci'], u'October 27 2016', u'Long-term safety of a nutraceutical combination based on agnus castus and magnolia extracts combined with soy isoflavones (SI) and lactobacilli, and effectiveness on vasomotor symptoms and sleep disorders in postmenopausal women, were assessed. A controlled study was carried-out in menopausal women comparing this nutraceutical combination (ESP group) with formulation containing isoflavones alone (C group), at the dosage recommended. Kuppermann index, PSQI, and SF-36 were determined at baseline, 3, 6 and 12 months. Endometrial thickness, mammary density and liver function were evaluated at baseline and after 12 months. 180 women (100 in ESP group and 80 in C group, mean age 55.5 years, in menopause for about 36 months) were enrolled in the study. At the treatment end, mammary density, endometrial thickness, and hepatic function did not show substantial differences between groups. Kuppermann index, and particularly hot flushes, were progressively and significantly decreased in frequency and severity during ESP versus C treatment. No adverse events were observed. Agnus castus and magnolia, combined with SI + lactobacilli, can effectively and safely be used in symptomatic postmenopausal women, mainly when quality of sleep is the most disturbing complaint. Endometrium, mammary glands and liver function, were unaffected after 12 months treatment.', u'/manuscript/201610.0122/v1', [u'Obstetrics & Gynaecology'], [u'Department of Woman, Child and General and Specialized Surgery, Second University of Naples, 81100 Caserta CE, Italy']]
[u'Resistance to Rose Rosette Virus and Transmission Attributes', ['Patrick L. Di Bello', 'Thanuja Thekke-Veetil', 'Tobiasz Druciarek', 'Ioannis E. Tzanetakis'], u'October 27 2016', u'Rosette caused by rose rosette virus (RRV) is the most devastating malady of rose in the United States. Because of the recent discovery of the virus and the completion of Koch\u2019s postulates all assumptions about the disease are based on visual observations of material that may or may have not been infected by the virus. This study addresses several aspects of virus and disease epidemiology. Twenty rose genotypes were screened for mite and/or virus resistance. Phyllocoptes fructiphilus the only known vector of RRV, was able to establish, lay eggs and develop to nymphs and adults in all genotypes. \u2018Stormy Weather\u2019 shows resistance to the virus as assessed by both mite and cleft-grafting transmission experiments. The acquisition/latent and inoculation access periods were studied revealing long acquisition/latent periods but rapid inoculation time frames. The outputs of this study will assist in the better management of the vector and the disease. The resistant genotype identified could be used in areas with high disease pressure to minimize spread and for identification of the mechanisms behind resistance or as breeding material to incorporate virus resistance to new cultivars. The short inoculation access period indicates that chemical control for the vector may be a challenging undertaking.', u'/manuscript/201610.0119/v1', [u'Virology'], [u'Department of Plant Pathology, Division of Agriculture, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, AR 72701, USA']]
