[u'AAC as a Potential Target Gene to Control Verticillium dahliae', ['Xiaofeng Su', 'Latifur Rehman', 'Huiming Guo', 'Xiaokang Li', 'Hongmei Cheng'], u'November 2 2016', u'Verticillium dahliae invades the roots of host plants and causes vascular wilt, which seriously diminishes the yield of cotton and other important crops. The protein AAC (ADP, ATP carrier) is responsible for transferring ATP from the mitochondria into the cytoplasm. When V. dahliae protoplasts were transformed with short interfering RNAs (siRNAs) targeting the VdAAC gene, fungal growth and sporulation were significantly inhibited. To further confirm a role for VdAAC in fungal development, we generated knockout mutants (\u0394VdACC), which were hypersensitive to stresses such as UV light and high concentrations of NaCl or sorbitol. Compared with wild-type V. dahliae\xa0\xa0(Vd wt), \u0394VdAAC was impaired in germination and virulence; these impairments were rescued in the complementary strains (\u0394VdAAC-C). Moreover, when an RNAi construct of VdAAC under the control of the 35S promoter was used to transform Nicotiana benthamiana, the expression of VdAAC was downregulated in the transgenic seedlings, and they had elevated resistance against V. dahliae. The results of this study suggest that VdAAC contributes to fungal development, virulence and response to stresses and is a promising candidate gene to control V. dahliae. In addition, RNAi is a highly efficient way to silence fungal genes and provides a novel strategy to improve disease resistance in plants.', u'/manuscript/201611.0020/v1', [u'Agricultural Sciences & Agronomy'], [u'Biotechnology Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Beijing; China']]
[u'Illegal Hunting of Prey Species in the Northern Section of Bardia National Park, Nepal: Implications for Carnivore Conservation', ['Babu Bhattarai', 'Wendy Wright', 'Ambika Khatiwada'], u'November 2 2016', u'We interviewed 48 people including local communities, ex hunters and protected area management professionals. The purpose of the interviews was to understand the motivations for, and the nature of, illegal hunting of prey species of iconic predators - tigers and leopards - in the northern section of Bardia National Park. Participants reported that hunting of prey species occurs mostly in spring and autumn and is less common during the summer. In the past, hunting was primarily for the purposes of obtaining meat for household consumption. Since the introduction of a road network in the region, opportunities to sell wild meat at ad-hoc \u2018highway markets\u2019 have developed. The purported medicinal properties of wild meat was also cited as a driver for illegal hunting. Mostly, locally hand-made guns are used for hunting and the use of dogs in hunting was often reported. Protected area managers informed that illegal hunting problems in the study area are associated with a lack of presence of park authorities, remoteness and underdevelopment and poverty of the community. Our study suggested that skills development training for local community members might reduce dependency on wild meat for household consumption and earning thereby reducing illegal hunting.', u'/manuscript/201611.0016/v1', [u'Ecology'], [u'Department of National Parks & Willdlife Conservation, Kathmandu 860, Nepal', u'Applied and Biomedical Sciences, Federation University, Mount Helen VIC 3350, Australia', u'National Trust for Nature Conservation, Lalitpur 3712, Nepal']]
[u'Transmural Cellular Heterogeneity in Myocardial Electromechanics', ['Anastasia Khokhlova', 'Nathalie Vikulova', 'Leonid Katsnelson', 'Gentaro Iribe', 'Olga Solovyova'], u'November 2 2016', u'Myocardial heterogeneity is an attribute of the normal heart. We have developed integrative models of cardiomyocytes from the subendocardial (ENDO) and subepicardial (EPI) ventricular regions that take into account experimental data on specific features of intracellular electromechanical coupling in the guinea pig heart. The models adequately simulate experimental data on the action potential and contraction of the ENDO and EPI cells. The modeling results predict that heterogeneity in the parameters of calcium handling and myofilament mechanics in isolated ENDO and EPI cardiomyocytes via cooperative mechanisms of mechano-calcium-electric feedback are essential to produce the differences in Ca2+ transients and contraction profiles and may further enhance transmural differences in the electrical properties between the cells. Simulation results predict that ENDO cells have greater sensitivity to changes in afterload than EPI cells. These data are important for understanding the behavior of cardiomyocytes in the intact heart.', u'/manuscript/201611.0015/v1', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Ural Federal University, Ekaterinburg 620002, Russia', u'Institute of Immunology and Physiology, Russian Academy of Sciences,  Ekaterinburg 620049, Russia', u'Okayama University, Graduate School of Medicine, Dentistry and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Okayama 700-0082, Japan', u'Institute of Mathematics and Mechanics, Russian Academy of Sciences,  Ekaterinburg 620049, Russia']]
