[u'Can Amateur Football Help Players Meet the Requirements for a Healthy Lifestyle? A Case Study', ['Javier Fernandez-Rio', 'Alejandro Anton-Candanedo', 'Jorge Garcia-del Bosque'], u'December 29 2016', u'The main goal of the study was to obtain objective measures of the impact of a complete pre-season of amateur football on the players\u2019 physical activity parameters. 17 amateur football players (24.47 \xb1 4.53 years) enrolled in the same team agreed to participate. They were asked to wear one accelerometer on the right hip during each training practice. Moderate-to-Vigorous physical activity (MVPA), steps and metabolic-equivalent (METs), among other parameters, were obtained and analyzed. Results showed that players spent an average 54.86% of each training session in MVPA levels, for a total of 100.33 minutes every week (3 training sessions per week). Therefore, this group of amateur football players did not meet the requirements to obtain health benefits from their physical activity program: amateur football. This finding could be considered noteworthy because there are thousands of adults worldwide who play amateur football to maintain a healthy lifestyle. They should be aware that their weekly training load is not enough to help them meet the necessary requirements. They either need more practice time (90-minute sessions) or more sessions. The pre-season training program was rated as \u201csomewhat hard\u201d by the participants, and quadriceps and hamstrings were mentioned as the most exerted muscles', u'/manuscript/201612.0140/v1', [u'Sport Sciences & Therapy'], []]
[u'Structural Insights into Thermotoga maritima FtsH Periplasmic Domain on Substrate Recognition', ['Jun Yop An', 'Humayun Sharif', 'Gil Bu Kang', 'Kyung Jin Park', 'Jung-Gyu Lee', 'Sukyeong Lee', 'Mi Sun Jin', 'Ji-Joon Song', 'Jimin Wang', 'Soo Hyun Eom'], u'December 29 2016', u'Prompt removal of misfolded membrane proteins and misassembled membrane protein complexes is essential for membrane homeostasis. However, the elimination of these toxic proteins from the hydrophobic membrane environment has high energetic barriers. Transmembrane FtsH is the only known ATP-dependent protease responsible for this task, unlike other well-studied soluble ATP-dependent proteases. The mechanisms by which FtsH recognizes, unfolds, translocates, and proteolyzes its substrates remain unclear. Here, we report the crystal structures of the Thermotoga maritima FtsH periplasmic domain (PD) in an associative trimeric state at a 1.5-1.95 \xc5 resolution. We also describe the pH-dependent oligomerization states of the isolated PD using dynamic light scattering. These observations help us understand how FtsH recognizes membrane-anchored misfolded proteins.', u'/manuscript/201612.0145/v1', [u'Biochemistry'], []]
[u'Relationship between Aflatoxin B1 Exposure and Etiology of Liver Disease in Saudi Arabian Patients', ['Rand Farag', 'Dujana Alayobi', 'Khalid Alsaleh', 'Ehab Serour', 'Hye-Joo Kwon', 'Afaf El-ansary'], u'December 29 2016', u'Background: Exposure to chronic low levels of aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) contamination can lead to immune suppression and nutritional consequences that might greatly contributed in the increase of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The toxicity of AFB1 is greatly vary between different population, affected by age, gender, and environmental factors. Material and subjects: Aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) was measured in 50 blood samples collected from non B, C hepatitis viruses and non CMV-Ab liver disease patients from different general hospitals and polyclinic in KSA during period 01-2013 to 06-2014. All Patients demonstrate elevation of ALT and AST with unknown etiology. Serum samples were obtained and kept at \u221220 \xb0C for AFB1detection. Results: Out of the 50 blood samples, 38 demonstrate a detectable serum level of AFB1 while the remaining 12 patients were AFB1 negative and used as control participants. While AST was non-significantly different in AFB1 exposed patients, ALT was significantly higher in AFB1 positive samples compared to control AFB1-negative. AFB1 was positively correlated with AST and ALT as liver function enzymes and with age as a risk factor of long duration of AFB1 chronic exposure. Multiple linear regression analysis ascertained the association between AFB1 chronic exposure and ALT increase in liver dysfunction Saudi patients. Conclusion: Measurement of elevated ALT as marker of liver injury in AFB1 chronically exposed Saudi patients can help to avoid the future development of HCC. Moreover, early detection of AFB1 exposure, together with early vaccination against HBV and HCV can remove the synergistic effects of these two etiological factors and thus decrease the risk of developing liver cancer.', u'/manuscript/201612.0142/v1', [u'Microbiology'], []]
