[u'CO2-Induced Changes in Wheat Grain Composition: Meta-Analysis and Response Functions', ['Malin C. Broberg', 'Petra Hogy', 'Hakan Pleijel'], u'January 31 2017', u'Elevated carbon dioxide (eCO2) stimulates wheat grain yield, but simultaneously reduces protein (N) concentration. Also other essential nutrients are subject to change. This study is a comprehensive synthesis of wheat experiments with eCO2, estimating effects on N, minerals (B, Ca, Cd, Fe, K, Mg, Mn, Na, P, S, Zn), and starch. Analysis was made by i) deriving response functions for the relative effect on element concentration in relation to CO2 concentration, ii) meta-analysis to test the magnitude and significance of observed effects, and iii) relating CO2 effects on minerals to effects on N and grain yield. Responses range from zero to strong negative effects of eCO2 on mineral concentration, with largest reductions for the nutritionally important elements N, Fe, S, Zn and Mg. Together with the positive but small and non-significant effect on starch concentration, the large variation in effects suggests that CO2-induced responses cannot be explained by a simple dilution model. To explain the observed pattern, uptake and transport mechanisms may have to be considered, along with the link of different elements to N uptake. Our study shows that eCO2 has a significant effect on wheat grain stoichiometry, with implications for human nutrition in a world of rising CO2.', u'/manuscript/201701.0134/v1', [u'Agricultural Sciences & Agronomy'], []]
[u'Danggui-Shaoyao-San, a Traditional Chinese Medicine, Relieved Depression and Cognitive Disorder Induced by Chronic Restraint Stress Involved in Regulating Dendritic Spines Remodeling', ['Kecheng Zhou', 'Junbin Yin', 'Huanghui Wu', 'Wei Hu', 'Zhen Gao', 'Fang Li', "An'an Wu", 'Wen Wang', 'Junping Kou'], u'January 31 2017', u'Background: Clinical trails have revealed that patients with depression generally accompanied with learning and memory impairment, which critically impact on individual\u2019s health and development. Danggui-Shaoyao-San (DSS), a famous Chinese complex prescription, significantly overcame depression and relieved cognitive disorder based on previous research and publication. However, its effectsand potential mechanism against chronic restraint stress (CRS) remained unknown. Methods: CRS animal model was established and mice were divided to six groups while they were oral administrated with Danggui-Shaoyao-San at doses of 1.25, 2.5 and 5 g/kg for 14 days. Emotional and cognitive performances were detected by behavior tests, meanwhile neural plasticity and its molecular mechanism were examined by Dil staining, western blot and immunofluorescence. Results: DSS treatment dose-dependently improved locomotion ability in open filed test, overcame depression behavior in forced swimming test and elevated plus maze test, enhanced learning and memory ability in Morris water maze test. CRS decreased number of total spines and mushroom spines, while DSS treatment dose-dependently restored these by Dil staining. Expression of BDNF and GluR1 were significantly down-regulated in CRS group, which were significantly normalized by DSS. Conclusions: DSS treatment dose-dependently reversed CRS-induced cognitive impairments by inducing structural remodeling of neurons.', u'/manuscript/201701.0138/v1', [u'Pharmacology & Toxicology'], []]
[u'Evolution of Serum 25OHD in Response to Vitamin D3 Fortified-Yogurts Consumed by Healthy Menopausal Women: A Six-Month Randomized-Controlled Trial Assessing the Interactions between Doses, Baseline Vitamin D Status and Seasonality', ['Jean-Philippe Bonjour', 'Flore Dontot-Payen', 'Emilien Rouy', 'Stephane Walrand', 'Brigitte Rousseau'], u'January 31 2017', u'A 24 week-controlled trial was conducted in menopausal women (mean age:61.5) to assess serum 25-hydroyvitaminD (s25OHD) evolution in relation to three interdependent determinants: doses of supplemented (Suppl.) vitamin D3 (VitD3); baseline status; seasonality. Participants were randomized into 3 groups (Gr): Gr.Suppl.0, time-controls maintaining dietary habits; Gr.Suppl.5 and Gr.Suppl.10 consuming one and two 125 g servings of VitD3-fortified yogurts with 5 and 10 \xb5g daily doses, respectively. The 16 intervention-weeks lasted from early-January to mid-August, the 8 follow-up-weeks from late-August to mid-October. Before enrollment, subjects were randomized into two s25OHD strata: \u201cLow stratum (LoStr)\u201c: 25-50 nmol/L; \u201cHigh stratum (HiStr)\u201c: >50-75 nmol/L. All enrolled participants remained compliant until study end: Gr.Suppl.0 (n=45), Gr.Suppl.5 (n=44) Gr.Suppl.10 (n=44). Over the 16 intervention and 8 follow-up weeks, s25OHD increased in both supplemented groups, more in Gr.Suppl.10 than Gr.Suppl.5. The constant rate of s25OHD per supplemental VitD3 microgram was greater in LoStr than HiStr. s25OHD increase was greater with late (mid-March) than early (mid-January) inclusion. In conclusion, this randomized trial demonstrates: -a dose-dependent s25OHD improvement related to fortified yogurt consumption; -an inversely baseline-dependent increase in s25OHD; -a seasonal effect that highlights the importance of vitamin D3 supplementation during winter, even at 5\xb5g/d, in healthy menopausal women.', u'/manuscript/201701.0135/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
