[u'The Impact of Pelvic Floor Muscles Exercises with and without Synergistic Muscles on Quality of Life of Women with Stage I Stress Urinary Incontinence', ['Magdalena Ptak', 'Agnieszka Brodowska', 'Sylwester Ciecwiez', 'Iwona Rotter'], u'February 27 2017', u'Stress urinary incontinence (SUI) influences the quality of life of women. The research applied ICIQ LUTS qol (The International Consultation Incontinence Questionnaire Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms quality of life) as a tool to measure the quality of life (QOL) of patients with stage 1 SUI in many areas. 140 perimenopausal women who participated in a urodynamic test at Department of Gynecology, Endocrinology and Gynecologic Oncology, Pomeranian Medical University, Police, Poland in the years 2013-2015 were enrolled in the study. Patients were divided into two groups: A and B. Two questionnaires were applied: the author\u2019s original questionnaire and the standardized ICIQ LUTS qol. Gymnastic plans were recommended 4 times per week for the period of 3 months. The plan for group A included the exercises of pelvic floor muscles (PFM) with the simultaneous tension of the transverse abdominal muscle (TrA) and for group B included the exercises of PMF without TrA. The evaluation of the quality of life of patients with stage 1 SUI with the use of ICIQ LUTS qol among patients from groups A and B after therapy showed a significant improvement in most areas. More impact is observed in the physiotherapy of both PFM with TrA.', u'/manuscript/201702.0097/v1', [u'Urology'], []]
[u'Local Actions of Melatonin in Somatic Cells of the Testis', ['Monica Beatriz Frungieri', 'Ricardo Saul Calandra', 'Soledad Paola Rossi'], u'February 27 2017', u'Environmental darkness signal is transferred from the retina to the pineal gland triggering melatonin secretion. Melatonin influences the synthesis and release of the hypothalamic GnRH and the adenohypophyseal gonadotropin hormones and therefore, regulates testicular function in photoperiodic species. Besides the brain, direct actions of melatonin at the testicular level have also been described. Melatonin released from the pineal gland to the circulation is taken up by peripheral tissues including testes. Testicular synthesis of melatonin has also been reported. The two key somatic cell types in the testis, Leydig and Sertoli cells, express melatonergic receptors. Melatonin acts as a local modulator of the endocrine activity in Leydig cells. In Sertoli cells, melatonin influences the oxidation state and the energy metabolism, and consequently may regulate spermatogenesis. Melatonergic receptors were also described in testicular macrophages and mast cells of infertile patients. Whereas melatonin exerts anti-proliferative and anti-inflammatory effects on testicular macrophages, it provides protective effects against oxidative stress in testicular mast cells. These data pinpoints melatonin as a key player in the regulation of testicular physiology (i.e. steroidogenesis, spermatogenesis) mostly in seasonal breeders. More importantly, melatonin is also involved in the modulation of testicular inflammatory and oxidant/anti-oxidant states in patients with idiopathic infertility.', u'/manuscript/201702.0095/v1', [u'Other'], []]
