[u'Gelatin Nanoparticles Loaded with PMX-53 Prevents Alveolar Bone Loss in Miniature Swines Model of Periodontitis', ['Jiahui Pan', 'Na Li', 'Qiuling Tang', 'Gege Li', 'Yubo Hou', 'Liuran Wang', 'Weixian Yu'], u'January 19 2017', u'Periodontitis is a chronic inflammatory disease which results in the destruction of the tooth\u2019 s supporting tissues and the alveolar bone resorption. The complement becomes a major link between infection and inflammatory pathology including periodontitis. Gingipians as important virulence factors of P. gingivalis have the activity of C5 convertase, could cleave C5 into fully functional C5a to activate C5aR. The above process could be blocked by the C5aR antagonist (PMX-53) to suppress local periodontal inflammation, and then achieves the purpose of treatment of periodontitis. Nanoparticles incorporated within gelatin are promising carrier system for drug delivery in recent years. This study aimed to investigate whether gelatin nanoparticles loaded with PMX-53 prevents alveolar bone resorption in miniature swines model of periodontitis. Four miniature swines were placed ligatures around the maxillary and mandibular fourth premolar and first molar on both sides for seven weeks to induce periodontitis. Then, animals were assigned randomly to four groups: minocycline-treated group, gelatin with PMX53-treated group, gelatin-treated group and a sham control group. They were treated with 1ml related drugs respectively, into gingival sulcusl for 4 times at one-week intervals. We showed that local treatments with gelatin nanoparticles loaded with PMX-53 could inhibit alveolar bone loss of periodontitis. Our study revealed that gelatin nanoparticles loaded with PMX-53 prevented alveolar bone resorption miniature swines model of periodontitis. In addition, provided proof-of-concept for local targeting of gelatin nanoparticles loaded with PMX-53 as a powerful candidate for the treatment of periodontitis.', u'/manuscript/201701.0083/v1', [u'Dentistry'], []]
[u'The Spermine Phosphate-Bound Cyclooctaoxygen Sodium Epigenetic Shell of Euchromatin DNA is Destroyed by the Epigenetic Poison Glyphosate', ['Andreas J. Kesel', 'Eduard A. Struys', 'Barbara Cellini'], u'January 19 2017', u'Oxygen exists in two gaseous and six solid allotropic modifications. An additional allotropic modification of oxygen, the cyclooctaoxygen, was predicted to exist in 1990. The first synthesis and characterization of cyclooctaoxygen as its sodium crown complex, isolated in the form of three cytosine nucleoside hydrochloride complexes, was reported in 2016. Cyclooctaoxygen sodium was synthesized from atmospheric oxygen, or catalase effect-generated oxygen, under catalysis of cytosine nucleosides and either ninhydrin or eukaryotic low-molecular weight RNA. The cationic cyclooctaoxygen sodium complex was shown to bind RNA and DNA, to associate with single-stranded DNA and spermine phosphate, and to be essentially non-toxic to cultured mammalian cells at 0.1\u20131.0 mM concentration. We postulated that cyclooctaoxygen is formed in most eukaryotic cells from dihydrogen peroxide in a catalase reaction catalysed by cytidine and RNA. A molecular biological model was deduced for a first epigenetic shell of eukaryotic euchromatin. This model incorporates an epigenetic explanation for the interactions of the essential micronutrient selenium (as selenite) with eukaryotic euchromatin. The sperminium phosphate/cyclooctaoxygen sodium complex is calculated to cover the actively transcribed regions (2.6%) of bovine lymphocyte interphase genome. Cyclooctaoxygen seems to be naturally absent in hypoxia-induced highly condensed chromatin, taken as a model for eukaryotic metaphase/anaphase/early telophase mitotic chromatin. We hence propose that the cyclooctaoxygen sodium-bridged spermine phosphate and selenite coverage serves as an epigenetic shell of actively transcribed gene regions in eukaryotic \u2018open\u2019 euchromatin DNA. The total herbicide glyphosate (ROUNDUP) and its metabolite (aminomethyl)phosphonic acid (AMPA) are proved to represent \u2018epigenetic poisons\u2019, since they both selectively destroy the cyclooctaoxygen sodium complex. This definition is of reason, since the destruction of cyclooctaoxygen is sufficient to bring the protection shield of human euchromatin into collateral epigenetic collapse.', u'/manuscript/201701.0086/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], []]
