[u'Role of Saponins in Plant Defense against the Diamondback Moth, Plutella xylostella (L.)', ['Mubasher Hussain', 'Muhammad Qasim', 'Bamisope Steve Bamisile', 'Liande Wang'], u'June 6 2017', u'The diamondback moth (DBM), Plutella xylostella L. (Lepidoptera: Plutellidae) is very destructive crucifers specialized pest that has resulted in significant crop losses worldwide. The pest is well attracted to glucosinolate-containing crucifers such as; Barbarea vulgaris (Brassicaceae), and generally to other plants in the genus Barbarea. B. vulgaris on their part, build up resistance against DBM and other herbivorous insects using glucosinolates; that are plant secondary metabolites used in plant defense\u2013contained only in plants of the order Brassicales. Aside glucosinolates, plants in this genus Barbarea (Brassicaceae) also contain saponins; which is toxic to insects and act as feeding deterrents for plant herbivores, most importantly, DBM, as it was found to prevent the survival of DBM larvae on the plant. Saponins are plant secondary metabolites have been established in higher concentrations in younger in contrast to older leaves within the same plant. Previous studies have found a relationship between ontogenetical changes in the host plant\u2019s saponin content and attraction/resistance to P. xylostella. The younger leaves recorded higher concentrations of glucosinolates and saponins, which naturally attracts the plant herbivores. DBM was reported to have evolved mechanisms to avoid the toxicity of the former. The plant-herbivore had adapted glucosinolates for host plant recognition, feeding and oviposition stimulants. Despite the adaptation for oviposition by P. xylostella adults, larvae of the insect cannot survive on the same plant. An example is in some varieties of B. vulgaris. The triterpenoid saponins which act as feeding deterrents in larvae are responsible for this direct defense mechanism against P. xylostella. In the future, trials by plant breeders could aim at transferring this insect resistance to other crops. The previous trials had limited because of lack of knowledge on the biosynthetic pathways and regulatory networks of saponins. Herein, we discussed exclusively; saponins mediated plant defense mechanisms against the DBM.', u'/manuscript/201706.0035/v1', [u'Agricultural Sciences & Agronomy'], []]
[u'The Role of SNCA Rep1 Microsatellite in Parkinson\u2019s Disease Progression', ['Lucia Corrado', 'Fabiola De Marchi', 'Sara Tunesi', 'Gaia Oggioni', 'Miryam Carecchio', 'Luca Magistrelli', 'Silvana Tesei', 'Giulio Riboldazzi', 'Alessio Di Fonzo', 'Clarissa Locci', 'Ilaria Trezzi', 'Roberta Zangaglia', 'Cristina Cereda', "Sandra D'Alfonso", 'Corrado Magnani', 'Comi Giacomo Pietro', 'Giorgio Bono', 'Claudio Pacchetti', 'Roberto Cantello', 'Stefano Goldwurm', 'Cristoforo Comi'], u'June 6 2017', u'\u03b1-synuclein is a constituent of Lewy bodies and mutations of its gene cause familial PD. A previous study showed that a variant of \u03b1-synuclein gene (SNCA), namely the 263bp allele of Rep1 was associated to faster motor progression in PD. On the contrary, a recent report failed to detect a detrimental effect of Rep1 263 on both motor and cognitive outcomes in PD. Aim of this study was to evaluate the influence of the Rep1 variants on disease progression in Parkinson\u2019s Disease (PD) patients. We recruited and genotyped for SNCA-Rep1 426 PD patients with age at onset \u226540 years and disease duration \u22654 years. We then analyzed frequency and time of occurrence of wearing-off, dyskinesia, freezing of gait, visual hallucinations and dementia. SNCA Rep1 263 carriers showed increased risk of both dementia (HR=3.03) and visual hallucinations (HR=2.69) compared to 263 non-carriers. In conclusion, SNCA Rep 1 263 allele is associated to a worst cognitive outcome in PD.', u'/manuscript/201706.0034/v1', [u'Clinical Neurology'], []]
