[u'Evaluation of the Effects of Airborne Particulate Matter on Bone Marrow-Mesenchymal Stem Cells (BM-MSCs): Cellular, Molecular and Systems Biological Approaches', ['Muhammad Abu-Elmagd', 'Mansour A Alghamdi', 'Magdy Shamy', 'Mamdouh I Khoder', 'Max Costa', 'Mourad Assidi', 'Roaa Kadam', 'Haneen Alsehli', 'Mamdooh Gari', 'Peter Natesan Pushparaj', 'Gauthaman Kalamegam', 'Mohammed Al-Qahtani'], u'March 20 2017', u'Particulate matter (PM) contains heavy metals that affect various cellular functions and gene expression associated with an array of acute and chronic diseases, in humans. However, their specific effects on the stem cells remain unclear. Here, we report the effects of PM collected from Jeddah city on bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BM-MSCs) on proliferation, cell death, related gene expression and systems biological analysis aiming to understand the underlying mechanisms. Two different sizes (PM2.5-10) were tested in vitro at various concentrations (15 to 300 \xb5g/ml) and durations (24 to 72 h). PMs induced cellular stress including membrane damage, shrinkage and death. Lower concentrations of PM2.5 increased BM-MSCs proliferation, while higher concentrations decreased it. PM10 decreased BM-MSCs proliferation in a concentration-dependant manner. The X-Ray Fluorescence spectrometric analysis showed that PM contains high levels of heavy metals. Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) and hierarchical clustering analyses showed that heavy metals were associated with signalling pathways involving cell stress/death, cancer and chronic diseases. qRT-PCR results showed differential regulation of the apoptosis genes (BCL2, BAX); upregulation of inflammation associated genes (TNF-a and IL-6) and downregulation of cell cycle regulation gene (P53). We conclude that PM could affect different cellular functions and predispose to debilitating diseases.', u'/manuscript/201703.0162/v1', [u'General Medical Research'], []]
[u'Association of Education and Smoking Status on Risk of Diabetes Mellitus: A Population-Based Nationwide Cross-Sectional Study', ['Jin-Hyeong Kim', 'Ju-Hwan Nho', 'Jae-Woo Choi', 'Eun-Cheol Park'], u'March 20 2017', u'Background: Smoking, including environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) exposure is a well-known risk factor for diabetes. Low socioeconomic status, especially lack of education, also is a risk factor for diabetes. Therefore, we assessed the association of education and smoking status, including ETS exposure, with the prevalence of diabetes. Methods: Data were from the 2007\u20132013 Korea National Health and Nutritional Evaluation Survey (KNHANES). Multivariable logistic regression examined associations between various lifestyle and health factors and prevalence of diabetes while controlling for potential confounding variables. Subgroup analysis was performed according to smoking status to determine factors associated with diabetes. Results: Of 19,303 individuals analyzed, 1,325 (11.4%) had diabetes. Greater average age, male sex, lower educational level, unemployment, and coexisting health problems were significantly associated with diabetes. Individuals with only elementary, middle, or high school level education had significantly greater odds ratios (p<0.05) compared to college graduates; smokers and nonsmokers exposed to ETS had significantly greater OR (p<0.05) than nonsmokers unexposed to ETS. Subgroup analysis of diabetics according to smoking status revealed significant associations (p<0.05) for diabetic nonsmokers exposed to ETS with female sex, single status, elementary level education, urban residence, National Health Insurance (NHI), hypertension, no alcohol intake, and no moderate physical activity. For diabetic smokers, there were significant associations (p<0.05) with elementary education, urban residence, lack of moderate physical activity, no alcohol intake, and NHI. Conclusions: The results suggested that smoking status, including ETS exposure, was associated with a higher prevalence of diabetes especially in populations with less education. Thus, we should direct efforts for controlling diabetes toward individuals with lower levels of education, and those who are smokers and nonsmokers exposed to ETS.', u'/manuscript/201703.0153/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Association between Alcohol Consumption, Folate Intake, and Risk of Pancreatic Cancer: A Case-Control Study', ['Winta Yellow', 'William R. Bamlet', 'Ann L. Oberg', 'Kristin E. Anderson', 'Janet E. Olson', 'Rashmi Sinha', 'Gloria M. Petersen', 'Rachael Z. Stolzenberg-Solomon', 'Rick J. Jansen'], u'March 20 2017', u'Pancreatic cancer is one of the most fatal common cancers affecting both men and women, representing about 3 percent of all new cancer cases in the United States. In this study, we aimed to investigate the association of pancreatic cancer risk with alcohol consumption as well as folate intake. We performed a case-control study of 384 patients diagnosed with pancreatic cancer from May 2004 to December 2009 and 983 primary care healthy controls. Our findings showed no significant association between risk of pancreatic cancer and either overall alcohol consumption or type of alcohol consumed (drinks/day). Our study showed dietary folate intake was modestly but significantly inversely associated with pancreatic cancer (OR=0.99, P <.0001). The current study supports the hypothesis that pancreatic cancer risk is reduced with higher food-based folate intake.', u'/manuscript/201703.0149/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'Chemical Characterization of Olive Pomace in the Northern Region of Jordan', ['Mohammed Wedyan', 'Bilal Abu Hanieh', 'Ahmed Al Harahsheh'], u'March 20 2017', u'In this study, the olive pomace was considered because of its importance in the environment. So, this study carried out to estimate the total nitrogen content and the fatty acids profile of olive pomace. The olive pomace samples were collected from Irbid, Jarash, Ajloun and Mafraq during the harvesting season 2014 to study the biochemical characteristics of fatty acid composition and the total nitrogen (TN) content. The total nitrogen content was determined by standard Kjeldahl method and the fatty acid profile was detected by gas chromatography (GC). The results show that the total nitrogen content ranged from (0.39 \xb1 0.0) to (0.62 \xb1 0.02) with statistically significant difference suggesting that the composition of matrices and their percentage may be responsible for composition of amendments. The calculated total protein percentage ranged between (2.43 \xb1 0.00) to (3.87 \xb1 0.17). Also, 13 different fatty acids were quantitatively profiled and quantitated. Oleic acid (C 18:1) was found to be the highest percentage of all other fatty acids and ranged between (59.03%) and (63.81%), moreover the C 18:1/C 18:2 (oil quality) was calculated and C.V% showed variation meaning that nutritional implication could affect the oxidative stability of oils. In conclusion, OP by-product could give a sustainable and alternative-cheap source for fertilizers, pharmaceutical industries, cosmetics and other industries.', u'/manuscript/201703.0150/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Cyanobacterial Toxins of the Laurentian Great Lakes, their Toxicological Effects, and Numerical Limits in Drinking Water', ['Todd R. Miller', 'Lucas J. Beversdorf', 'Chelsea A. Weirich', 'Sarah L. Bartlett'], u'March 20 2017', u'Cyanobacteria are ubiquitous phototrophic bacteria that inhabit diverse environments across the planet. They dominate many eutrophic lakes impacted by excess nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) forming dense accumulations of biomass known as cyanobacterial harmful algal blooms or cyanoHABs. Their dominance in eutrophic lakes is attributed to a variety of unique adaptations including N and P concentrating mechanisms, N fixation, colony formation that inhibits predation, vertical movement via gas vesicles, and the production of toxic or otherwise bioactive molecules. While some of these molecules have been explored for their medicinal benefits, others are potent toxins harmful to humans, animals, and other wildlife known as cyanotoxins. In humans these cyanotoxins affect various tissues, including the liver, central and peripheral nervous system, kidneys, and reproductive organs among others. They induce acute effects at low doses in the parts-per-billion range and some are tumor promoters linked to chronic diseases such as liver and colorectal cancer. The occurrence of cyanoHABs and cyanotoxins in lakes presents challenges for maintaining safe recreational aquatic environments and the production of potable drinking water. CyanoHABs are a growing problem in the North American (Laurentian) Great Lakes basin. This review summarizes information on the occurrence of cyanoHABs in the Great Lakes, toxicological effects of cyanotoxins, and appropriate numerical limits on cyanotoxins in finished drinking water.', u'/manuscript/201703.0148/v1', [u'Other'], []]
