[u'Profile of Surrounding MicroRNAs in Low Density Lipoprotein Uptake', [], u'May 1 2017', u'The atherosclerosis, a chronic and inflammatory disease that occurs when there are high levels of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) on plasma. This important risk factor for development of cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the main cause of death worldwide. MicroRNAs have recently emerged as potential biomarkers and therapeutic target for lipid metabolism disorders. In this review, we will provide profile of surrounding miRNAs that have demonstrated being regulators of PCSK9, LDLR and APOB100 genes. Recent work has identified the mir-148, mir-128, mir-27a/b, mir-185, mir-301, mir-130 as important regulators of this pathway because they decrease supply of LDL receptors through interaction with PCSK9. Inhibition of LDLR expression cause elevation of plasma LDL levels which induces atherosclerosis. While mir-30c, mir-122, mir-34 decrease MTTP, which promotes degradation of APOB100 preventing assembly and secretion of VLDL. We conclude that, when overexpressed, mir-148a, mir128 and mir-27a/b, mir-122 and mir-34 are related to decrease in LDLR, facilitating occurrence of atherosclerosis. While mir-30 has been linked to decreased atherosclerosis. Detection of miRNAs profile could be used in the future as a biomarker for disturbs linked to c-LDL uptake and in future anti-miRNAs therapies may be used in the treatment of atherosclerosis.', u'/manuscript/201705.0019/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Oct-4 Regulates DNA Methyltransferase 1 (Dnmt1) Transcription by Direct Regulatory Element Binding', [], u'May 1 2017', u'The transcription factor Oct4 plays a pivotal role for the development of mouse preimplantation embryo, and DNA methyltransferase 1 (Dnmt1) maintains the changes of DNA methylation during mammalian early embryonic development. However, little is known of the role of Oct4 in DNA methylation in mouse. In the present study, Kunming white mice were used as an animal model to elucidate the correlation between DNA methylation and Oct4 during mammalian embryonic development. The expression of Dnmt1 and Oct4 were initially studied by real-time PCR, exhibiting different patterns during mouse preimplantation stage. Moreover, by using promoter assay and Chip analysis, we found that the transcriptional activity of Dnmt1 in mouse NIH/3T3 cells and CCE cells were both regulated by Oct4 through direct binding to -554 to -294 fragment of upstream regulation element of Dnmt1. Then, the downregulation of Dnmt1 expression level and enzyme activity by mouse Oct4 were further confirmed by transfecting Oct4 siRNA into mouse CCE cells. Our results indicate that the function of Oct4 is involved in DNA methylation by regulating Dnmt1 transcription, especially during the early stages of mouse preimplantation embryo development.', u'/manuscript/201705.0010/v1', [u'Animal Sciences & Zoology'], []]
[u'Expression of Pokeweed Antiviral Protein Isoform S1 (PAP-S1) and of Ricin-A-Chain/PAP-S1 Novel Fusion Protein (RTA/PAP-S1) in Escherichia coli and Their Comparative Inhibition of Protein Synthesis in Vitro', [], u'May 1 2017', u'Fusion protein therapeutics engineering is advancing to meet the need for novel medicine. Herein, we further characterize the development of novel RTA & PAP-S1 antiviral fusion proteins. In brief, RTA/PAP-S1 and PAP-S1/RTA fusion proteins were produced in both cell free and E. coli in vivo expression systems, purified by His-tag affinity chromatography, and protein synthesis inhibitory activity assayed by comparison to the production of a control protein, CalmL3. Results showed that the RTA/PAP-S1 fusion protein is amenable to standardized production and purification and has both increased potency and less toxicity compared to either RTA or PAP-S1 alone. Thus, this research highlights the developmental potential of novel fusion proteins with reduced cytotoxic risk and increased potency.', u'/manuscript/201705.0015/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], []]
[u'Leptadenia reticulata (Retz.) Wight (Jivanti): Botanical, Agronomical, Phytochemical, Pharmacological, and Biotechnological Aspects', [], u'May 1 2017', u'Leptadenia reticulata (Ritz.) Wight (Asclepiadaceae), a traditional medicinal plant species, is widely used in traditional medicine to treat various ailments such as tuberculosis, hematopoiesis, emaciation, cough, dyspnea, fever, burning sensation, night blindness, cancer, and dysentery. In Ayurveda, it is known for its revitalizing, rejuvenating, and lactogenic properties. This plant is one of the major ingredients in many commercial herbal formulations, including Speman, Envirocare, Calshakti, Antisept, and Chyawanprash. The therapeutic potential of this herb is because of the presence of diverse bioactive compounds such as \u03b1-amyrin, \u03b2-amyrin, ferulic acid, luteolin, diosmetin, rutin, \u03b2-sitosterol, stigmasterol, hentriacontanol, a triterpene alcohol simiarenol, apigenin, reticulin, deniculatin, and leptaculatin. However, most biological studies on L. reticulata are restricted to crude extracts, and many biologically active compounds are yet to be identified in order to claim the traditional uses of L. reticulata into evidence-based uses. At present, L. reticulata is a threatened endangered plant because of overexploitation, unscientific harvesting, and habitat loss. The increased demand from pharmaceutical, nutraceutical, and veterinary industries has prompted its large-scale propagation. However, its commercial cultivation is hampered because of the non-availability of genuine planting material and the lack of knowledge on its agronomical practices. In this regard, micropropagation technique will be useful to obtain true-to-type L. reticulata planting materials from an elite germplasm to meet the current demand. Adopting other biotechnological approaches such as synthetic seed technology, cryopreservation, cell culture, and genetic transformation can warrant conservation as well as increased metabolite production from L. reticulata. The present review summarizes scientific information on the botanical, agronomical, phytochemical, pharmacological, and biotechnological aspects of L. reticulata. This comprehensive information will certainly allow better utilization of this industrially important herb towards the discovery of lead drug molecules.', u'/manuscript/201705.0012/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Exosomes as Biomarkers and Therapeutic Targets in Pancreatic Cancer', [], u'May 1 2017', u'Pancreatic cancer (PC) is a highly malignant tumor with a poor prognosis; indeed, in recent years the incidence and mortality rate have increased. However, the lack of highly sensitive and specific molecular diagnostic markers makes it difficult to classify PC. Exosomes, cell-derived vesicles that contain bioactive molecules, play key roles in cell\u2212cell communication, a process that regulates diverse biological processes in cancer. Here, we highlight recent advances in the roles of exosomes in PC, focusing on their potential utility as diagnostic biomarkers and therapy targets. Although several biomarkers and therapies are being researched, we believe that advances in molecular biology techniques and testing of larger patient cohorts will improve targeted therapy for PC.', u'/manuscript/201705.0006/v1', [u'Molecular Biology'], []]
