[u'High Biodiversity of Green Infrastructure Does Not Contribute to Recreational Ecosystem Services', ['Daria Sikorska', 'Piotr Sikorski', 'Richard J. Hopkins'], u'January 2 2017', u'Urban lakes, especially those of natural origin, provide numerous ecosystem services, recreation being one of the most important and highly valued by the city dwellers Fulfilling the need of city residents to relax and have contact with nature has become a priority in urbanized areas and has been proved to positively affect people\u2019s health and well-being. The recreational potential of water bodies was identified to be most important aspect of ecosystem services to the residents of the neighboring areas. Assessment of ecosystem services provisioning to society based on the real time spent by the citizens, in the rural-urban gradient allowed us to show how the economic benefits of lakes differ in urbanized, suburban and rural landscapes. Growth of cities has led to increased population density in the surroundings of ecologically valuable areas, resulting in higher pressure from visitors seeking recreational values. Along with urbanization, the impoverishment of ecosystem functions takes place limiting their capability to provide ecosystem services. In this work provisioning of ecosystem services of 28 floodplain lakes located in urban-rural gradient of Warsaw agglomeration was assessed. The relation between the ecological value of the water bodies, measured using naturalness indices, and the ecosystem services they can provide was assessed. The results showed that the floodplain lakes located along the urban-rural gradient are of a great importance to the citizens due to their recreational potential. However the provisioning of recreational ecosystem services is poorly connected with the ecological value of the floodplain lakes and the economic benefits are of a greatest importance in objects included in the urban green spaces.', u'/manuscript/201701.0009/v1', [u'Plant Sciences'], []]
[u'Expression and Potential Function of Plasma Exosomal microRNAs (miR-483-5p, miR-671-5p, and miR-150-3p) in a Mouse Mode and in Mesial Temporal Lobe Epilepsy Patients', ['Shaofeng Yan', 'Guiyang Liu', 'Wenyan Xie', 'Dawei Meng', 'Hua Zhang', 'Fangang Meng', 'Kai Zhang', 'Yin Jiang', 'Xin Zhang', 'Jianguo Zhang'], u'December 30 2016', u'Mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (mTLE) is one of the most common and refractory focal epilepsy syndromes. The molecular mechanisms of TLE are not completely understood. The aim of this study was to investigate the expression and potential function of plasma exosomal miRNAs (miR-483-5p, miR-671-5p, and miR-150-3p) in a mouse mode and in temporal lobe epilepsy patients. It was found that exosomal miRNAs were differentially expressed in three phases of the mouse mode, and exosomal miRNAs were down-regulated in mTLE patients compared with healthy controls. A bioinformatics analysis showed that target genes of exosomal miRNAs were significantly involved in the apoptotic process, cell adhesion, nervous system development, neurotrophin signaling pathway, PI3K-Akt signaling pathway, and metabolic pathways. The areas under the curve of miR-483-5p and miR-150-3p were 0.8714 (sensitivity = 75.00%, specificity = 91.65%) and 0.8213 (sensitivity = 67.50%, specificity = 90.00%), respectively. More importantly, the exosomal miRNAs were significantly associated with clinical parameters. Exosomal miRNAs may have the potential to become diagnostic and therapeutic biomarkers.', u'/manuscript/201612.0151/v1', [u'Anatomy & Morphology'], []]
[u'Synergistic Effect of Coadministration of Haemophilus influenzae and Neisseria meningitidis Vaccines on Immune Responses to Meningitis in Mouse Model', ['Randa H. Ali', 'Nourtan F. Abdeltawab', 'Osama A. Hady', 'Magdy A. Amin'], u'January 2 2017', u'Meningitis is a severe disease associated with death in children under five with highest rates of infections under age of one. Vaccines for Neisseria meningitides and Haemophilus influenza are used to prevent the main causative agents of meningitis. Administration of H. influenzae type b (Hib) vaccine is recommended at 2, 4 and 6 months with a booster dose at 18 months. N. meningitidis has two commercially available vaccines, the pure polysaccharide is recommended at 24 months meanwhile the protein-conjugated vaccines at 12 months. We sought in this study to examine if coadministering the vaccines for the two main meningitis causing bacteria might be synergistic as a preliminary step towards the possibility of shuffling immunization schedule. So, we coadministered Hib vaccine with commercially available vaccines either quadrate (ACWY) polysaccharide meningococcal (Men) or conjugated meningococcal (Nim) vaccines in Balb/C mice (n = 6/group) and compared to each vaccine administered separately and controls. Thirty-five days post immunization, we measured specific antibodies titers. Hib vaccine increased Men antibody titers significantly for serotypes Y and W. When Hib vaccine was coadministrated with Nim, antibody titer for Y, W and A significantly increased. For serotype C, there was no significant difference in antibody titers among immunized groups. As for effect of meningococcal vaccines on Hib, Men significantly increased Hib antibody titers while Nim had no effect. Collectively, our data suggested that coadministration of Hib and Men or Nim vaccines was safe and had synergistic effect on immune responses elicited to both vaccines. Further studies are needed before immunization schedule modifications. Such immunization schedule recommendation should provide better protection against this life-threatening disease in young children.', u'/manuscript/201701.0010/v1', [u'Clinical Neurology'], []]
[u'Microbiological Quality of a Locally Brewed Alcoholic Beverage (Pito) Sold in a Community within the Greater Accra Region, Ghana', ['Andrew A Minamor', 'Alberta Mensah Larteley', 'Emmanuel Nii Laryea', 'Emmanuel Afutu', 'Patience B Tetteh-Quarcoo'], u'January 2 2017', u'Pito is a traditionally brewed alcoholic beverage in some African countries. It is gaining much prominence and the patronage among the youth. Therefore, samples of the drink were collected every week for six weeks from three different popular brewing sites at Lower Prampram in the Ningo-Prampram District of Accra, Ghana. The samples were processed and examined for bacteria and fungi using the Standard Plate Count (SPC) technique. A total of six different bacteria and a fungus were isolated. The bacteria were Escherichia coli, Klesiella pneumoniae, Shigella spp, Enterobacter aerogenes, Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeroginosa, whiles the fungus was Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Total viable counts as well as individual isolates counts in all the pito samples were found to be less than 104 cfu/ml. It is noteworthy that, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the only fungus isolated is known to be associated with fermentation and the microbes isolated from the pito samples were found to be within the permissible limits. However, these potentially pathogenic microbes, if found in unacceptable limits, from the fermenting samples could merit public health attention. Therefore, periodic screening of pito and their brewers, coupled with education on the maintenance of recommended guidelines concerning food and drink production is encouraged.', u'/manuscript/201701.0003/v1', [u'Nutrition'], []]
[u'Evaluation of Rational Drug Use for Acute Pharyngitis Associated with the Incidence and Prevalence of the Disease at Two Community Health Centers in Indonesia', ['Cindra T. Yuniar', 'Kusnandar Anggadiredja', 'Alfi N. Islamiyah'], u'December 30 2016', u'According to Indonesia\u2019s result of Basic Health Research of 2013, prevalence of acute respiratory infection in 2007 and 2013 were not different (25.5% and 25.0%, respectively). Identifying the cause of acute pharyngitis is a key point in determining the optimal treatment. The main purpose is to evaluate the rational use of drugs and its irrational impact as well as the correlation of the drug use with the incidence and prevalence of acute pharyngitis. This study was a descriptive and observational study, carried out retrospectively and concurrently at two community health centers located in Bandung and Cimahi, Indonesia. There were 80.01% over prescription of antibiotics, with a total of 8.98% is non-treatment option, and 62.43% irrational used of corticosteroids. The incidence and prevalence of acute pharyngitis at one health center in Bandung were 2.45% and 2.31%, respectively, with irrationality rate of 83.82%. Those recorded at one health center in Cimahi were 2.11% of incidence and 2.00% of prevalence with irrational rate of 91.29%. It can be concluded that there were still irrational use of medicines in the treatment of acute pharyngitis in community health center. The higher incidence and prevalence might indicate the declining health services quality.', u'/manuscript/201612.0149/v1', [u'Other'], []]
[u'Are Pharmacy Graduates from an Indonesian University Prepared to Deliver Patient Care?', ['Desak Ernawati', 'Ya Ping Lee', 'Bruce Sunderland', 'Jeff Hughes'], u'December 30 2016', u'Pharmacists\u2019 roles in providing patient care remain limited in Indonesia, hence this study aimed to determine the preparedness of pharmacy graduates from one university in Indonesia to deliver patient care. Pharmacy graduates (both registered pharmacists [104] and recent graduates eligible for registration [45]) were sent a validated self-administered survey. The survey sought their perceptions about whether they had acquired 16 patient care related attributes. Further, it sought their opinion on the desirability of having those attributes. Data were analysed using SPSS version 22.0. Sixteen of 104 (15.4%) registered pharmacists and 40 of 45 (88.9%) recent pharmacy graduates participated in the study. More than 50% of participants in both groups were female and most participants were aged in their 20s. Of the recent pharmacy graduates the majority perceived they had at least partially acquired four of 16 list attributes. Male and female recent graduates had significantly different beliefs about their leadership ability (p=0.004). In comparison, most registered pharmacists perceived they had 10 out of the 16 listed attributes. The findings of this study suggested that pharmacy graduates should be better prepared to deliver patient care, and that curriculum redesign with expansion of experiential learning is required.', u'/manuscript/201612.0146/v1', [u'Other'], []]
