[u'Calcium Silicate/Chitosan-Coated Electrospun Poly (lactic acid) Fibers for Bone Tissue Engineering', ['Chu-Jung Su', 'Ming-Gene Tu', 'Li-Ju Wei', 'Tuan-Ti Hsu', 'Chia-Tze Kao', 'Tsui-Han Chen', 'Tsui-Hsien Huang'], u'March 1 2017', u'Electrospinning is the versatile technique to generate large quantities of micro- or nano-fibers from a wide variety of shapes and sizes of polymer. Natural bone is a hierarchically composites with the dispersion of inorganic ceramic along organic polymer. The aim of this study, the electrospun poly (lactic acid) (PLA) mats coated with chitosan (CH) and calcium silicate (CS) powder were fabricated. The morphology, chemical composition, and surface properties of CS/CH-PLA composites were characterized by scanning electron microscopy, X-ray diffraction, and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy. In vitro, the CS/CH-coated PLA mats increased the formation of apatite on the surface when soaking in cell cultured medium. During culture, the adhesion and proliferation of the human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) cultured on CS/CH-PLA were significantly promoted relative to those on PLA. Collagen I and fibronectin levels and promoted cell adhesion were observed upon an increase in CS content. Further, compared to PLA mats without CS/CH, CS10 and CS15 mats markedly enhanced the proliferation of hMSCs as well as their osteogenesis properties, which was characterized by bone-related gene expression. Our results demonstrated that the biodegradable and electroactive CS/CH-PLA mats had potential application as an ideal candidate for bone tissue engineering. Together, findings from this study clearly demonstrated that PLLA-C2S composite scaffold may function as an ideal candidate for bone tissue engineering.', u'/manuscript/201703.0011/v1', [u'Dentistry'], []]
[u'Paeoniflorin Suppressed High Glucose Induced Retinal Microglia Activation via Inhibition of TLR-4/NF-KB/MMP-9 Pathway through Upregulation of SOCS-3', ['Su-hua Zhu', 'Bing-Qian Liu', 'Maojuan Hao', 'Yi-Xin Fan', 'Cheng Qian', 'Peng Teng', 'Xiao-Wei Zhou', 'Liang Hu', 'Wen-tao Liu', 'Zhi-lan Yuan', 'Qing-ping Li'], u'March 1 2017', u'Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is a serious-threatening complication of diabetes and urgently needed to be treated. Evidence has accumulated indicating that microglia within retinal plays a critical role in DR. Microglial matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP-9) has an important role in destruction the integrity of blood-retinal barrier (BRB) associate with the development of DR. Paeoniflorin, a monoterpene glucoside, has a potent immunomodulatory effect on microglia. We hypothesized that paeoniflorin could significantly suppress microglial MMP-9 activation induced by high glucose and further relieve DR. BV2 cells were used to investigate the effects and mechanism of paeoniflorin. The activation of MMP-9 was measured by gelatin zymography. Cell signaling was measured by western blot assay and immunofluorescence assay .High glucose increased the activation of MMP-9 in BV2 cells, which was abolished by HMGB1, TLR4, p38 MAPK and NF-\u03baB inhibition. Phosphorylation of p38 MAPK induced by high glucose was decreased by TLR4 inhibition in BV2 cells. Paeoniflorin induced HSP70 and SOCS3 expression, and reduced MMP-9 activation in BV2 cells. The effect of paeoniflorin on SOCS3 was abolished by TLR4 inhibitor. In STZ-induced diabetes mice, paeoniflorin induced SOCS3 expression and reduced MMP-9 activation. Paeoniflorin suppressed STZ-induced IBA1 and IL-1\u03b2 expression, and decreased STZ-induced high blood glucose level. Paeoniflorin induced microglial SOCS3 expression through HSP70/TLR4/NF-\u03baB signaling pathway to reduced MMP-9 in DR prevention.', u'/manuscript/201703.0008/v1', [u'Ophthalmology'], []]
[u'Clinical Prediction of Suicide and Undetermined Death. A Pseudo-Prospective Clinical and Medico-Legal Study of Substance Abusers', ['Louise Bradvik', 'Mats Berglund', 'Peter Lowenhielm'], u'March 1 2017', u'Objective: To give aspects of prediction of suicide and death of undetermined intent. Method: All consecutive, autopsied patients during 1993 to 1997 inclusive who had been in contact with Addiction Centre in Malm\xf6 from 1968 and onwards were investigated. The staff was asked, shortly after autopsy before they knew of the manner of death, if they thought the patient had committed suicide. The case records were blindly evaluated and toxicological autopsy findings for alcohol in blood samples investigated. Results: The specificity of the prediction was (83%) and significantly more often correct than the sensitivity which was only 45% for suicide and for suicide/death of undetermined intent 93% versus 39%. Suicidal communication was more often considered non-serious before death of undetermined intent than before suicide. The former could be predicted by ideation but not by suicide attempt reported in case records in contrast to suicide, which was predicted by both. The undetermined group also showed higher levels of alcohol in blood at autopsy. Conclusion: More serious clinical investigation of suicidal feelings, which may be hidden and not taken seriously, and treatment of alcohol use disorders appear urgent in the efforts to prevent suicide.', u'/manuscript/201703.0005/v1', [u'Psychiatry & Mental Health studies'], []]
[u'Purification of Polymer-Grade Fumaric Acid from Fermented Spent Sulfite Liquor', ['Diogo Figueira', 'Joao Cavalheiro', 'Bruno Sommer Ferreira'], u'March 1 2017', u'Fumaric acid is a chemical building block with many applications, namely in the polymer industry. The fermentative production of fumaric acid from renewable feedstock is a promising and sustainable alternative to petroleum-based chemical synthesis. The use of existing industrial side-streams as raw-material within biorefineries potentially enable production costs competitive against current chemical processes, while preventing the use of refined sugars competing with food and feed uses and avoiding purposely grow crops requiring large areas of arable land. However, most industrial side streams contain a diversity of molecules that will add complexity to the purification of fumaric acid from the fermentation broth. A process for the recovery and purification of fumaric acid from complex fermentation medium containing spent sulfite liquor (SSL) as carbon source was developed and is herein described. A simple two-stage precipitation procedure involving separation unit operations, pH and temperature manipulation and polishing through the removal of contaminants with activated carbon allowed the recovery of fumaric acid with 68.3% recovery yield with specifications meeting the requirements of the polymer industry. Further, process integration opportunities were implemented that allowed minimizing the generation of waste streams containing fumaric acid which enabled increasing the yield to 81.4% while keeping the product specifications.', u'/manuscript/201703.0004/v1', [u'Biotechnology'], []]
