[u'Models for exploring genome-fitness mapping in an introductory course', ['David Thompson'], u'2016-12-19', u'Evolutionary theory presents a number of conceptual hurdles for the undergraduate student. In addition, the extended timespan over which many evolutionary processes occur, coupled with the time constraints of the typical undergraduate laboratory, restricts the range of relevant laboratory exercises available to augment instruction in an undergraduate course. Computer-based simulations have the potential to overcome this barrier as they allow interaction with models of natural processes which occur on long timescales. Such simulations allow the student to pursue what would be impossible at the bench: to investigate multiple scenarios and to collect, visualize, and analyze large amounts of data. Here, we describe a set of agent-based models, developed using the NetLogo platform, designed to facilitate developing a better understanding of the interplay between random processes, organismal fitness, encoding, and genomic sequence space.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2647/', ['Computational Biology', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Department of Biology, Fresno Pacific University']]
[u'Basal tolerance to heat and cold exposure of the spotted wing drosophila, Drosophila suzukii', ['Thomas Enriquez', 'Herce Colinet'], u'2016-12-19', u'The spotted wing Drosophila, Drosophila suzukii, is a new pest in Europe and America which causes severe damages to stone fruits crops. Temperature and humidity are among the most important abiotic factors governing insect life. In many situations, temperature can become stressful thus compromising fitness and survival. The ability to cope with thermal stress depends on basal level of thermal tolerance. Basic knowledge on temperature-dependent mortality of D. suzukii is essential to facilitate management of this pest. The objective of the present study was to investigate D. suzukii basal cold and heat tolerance. Adults and pupae were submitted to six low (-5 to 7.5 \xb0C) and seven high temperatures (30 to 37 \xb0C) for various durations, and survival-time-temperature relationships were investigated. In addition, pupal thermal tolerance was analyzed under low vs. high relative humidity. Our results showed that males had higher cold survival than females, and pupae appeared less cold-tolerant than adults. Above 5 \xb0C, adult cold mortality became minor, even after prolonged exposures (i.e. one month). Males were less heat tolerant than females, and pupae showed a better survival to extreme high temperatures than adults. Low relative humidity did not affect D. suzukii cold survival, but reduced survival under heat stress. Overall, this study shows that survival of D. suzukii under heat and cold conditions depends on both stress intensity and duration, and the methodological approach used here, which was based on thermal tolerance landscapes, provides a comprehensive description of D. suzukii thermal tolerance and limits.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2646/', ['Ecology', 'Entomology', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Universit\xe9 Rennes I, UMR CNRS 6553 ECOBIO 263 avenue du G\xe9n\xe9ral-Leclerc']]
