[u'Contrasting molecular and morphological evidence for the identification of an anomalous Buteo: a cautionary tale for hybrid diagnosis', ['William S Clark', 'Spencer C Galen', 'Joshua M Hull', 'Megan A Mayo', 'Andrew Engilis Jr', 'Christopher C Witt'], u'2016-05-10', u'An adult Buteo was found dead as a road-kill south of Sacramento, California, and was thought to represent the first state record of the eastern Red-shouldered Hawk (B. lineatus lineatus; Pyle et al. 2004). It is now a specimen in the Museum of Wildlife and Fish Biology (WFB 4816) at the U. of California, Davis. We examined this specimen and found that many of its plumage characters differed from all other adult Red-shouldered Hawks examined, including nominate adults. Plumage markings and measurements were intermediate between Red-tailed Hawk (Buteo jamaicensis, ssp calurus) and Red-shouldered Hawk (ssp elegans), leading us to hypothesize that the bird was a hybrid. However, mtDNA sequences and nuDNA microsatellites proved definitively that the bird was a Red-shouldered Hawk, most likely of eastern origin. This case illustrates that apparent hybrids or apparent vagrants could be individuals with anomalous phenotypes caused by rare genetic variation or novel epigenetic effects.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2039/', ['Molecular Biology', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Unaffiliated', u'Sackler Institute for Comparative Genomics, American Museum of Natural History', u'Animal Science, University of California', u'Department of Animal Science, University of California', u'Museum of Wildlife and Fish Biology, University of California', u'Museum of Southwestern Biology and Department of Biology, University of New Mexico']]
[u'Requirements engineering practice and problems in agile projects: results from an international survey', ['Stefan Wagner', 'Daniel Mendez Fernandez', 'Michael Felderer', 'Marcos Kalinowski'], u'2016-05-10', u'Requirements engineering (RE) is considerably different in agile development than in traditional processes. Yet, there is little empirical knowledge on the state of the practice and contemporary problems in agile RE. As part of a bigger survey initiative (Naming the Pain in Requirements Engineering), we build an empirical basis on such aspects of agile RE. Based on the responses from 92 people representing 92 organizations, we found that agile RE concentrates on free-text documentation of requirements elicited with a variety of techniques. Many manage explicit traces between requirements and code. Furthermore, the continuous improvement of RE is done because of intrinsic motivation. Important experienced problems include unclear requirements and communication flaws. Hence, agile RE is in several aspects not so different from RE in other development processes. We plan to investigate specific techniques, such as acceptance-test-driven development, in a future survey to better capture what is special in agile RE.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2038/', ['Software Engineering'], [u'Institute of Software Technology, University of Stuttgart', u'Technical University of Munich', u'Universit\xe4t Innsbruck', u'Universidade Federal Fluminense']]
[u'A simple rat model of mild traumatic brain injury: device to reproduce anatomical and neurological changes of mild traumatic brain injury', ['Ho Jeong Kim', 'Soo Jeong Han'], u'2016-05-10', u'Mild traumatic brain injury typically involves temporary impairment of neurological function. Previous studies used the water pressure or rotational injury for designing the device to make a rat mild traumatic brain injury model. The objective of this study was to make a simple model of mild traumatic brain injury in rat. The device consisted of a free-fall impactor that was targeted onto the rat skull. The weight (175g) was freely dropped 30cm to rat\u2019s skull bregma. We installed a safety device made of acrylic panel. To confirm a mild traumatic brain injury in 36 Sprague\u2013Dawley rats, we performed the brain magnetic resonance image(MRI) within 24 hours after injury. We evaluated behavior and chemical changes in rats before and after mild traumatic brain injury. The brain MRI did not show high or low signal intensity in 34 rats. The mobility on grid floor was decreased after mild traumatic brain injury. Absolute number of foot-fault and foot-fault ratio were decreased after mild traumatic brain. But the difference of ratio was lesser than absolute number of foot-fault. These results show that the device is capable of reproducing mild traumatic brain injury in rat. Our device can reduce the potential to cause brain hemorrhage and reflect the mechanism of real mild traumatic brain injury compared with existing methods and behaviors. This model can be useful in exploring physiology and management of mild traumatic brain injury.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2037/', ['Neuroscience', 'Neurology'], [u'Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Seonam hospital, Ewha Womans University Medical Center', u'Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, School of Medicine, Ewha Womans University']]
[u'Diversity of habitats and bacterial communities support landscape-scale multifunctionality differently across seasons', ['Christian Alsterberg', 'Fabian Roger', 'Kristina Sundback', 'Jaanis Juhanson', 'Stefan Hulth', 'Sara Hallin', 'Lars Gamfeldt'], u'2016-05-10', u'In this study, we demonstrate how changes in the diversity of habitat and bacterial communities affect landscape multifunctionality. Habitat diversity may beget species diversity by increasing niche availability and resource complementarity. Species diversity, in turn, generally promotes multifunctionality, i.e. the simultaneous performance of multiple ecosystem functions. However, the relationship between habitat diversity and functioning remains to be explicitly explored. In order to test the relationship between habitat diversity and multifunctionality we constructed experimental landscapes of four different habitats common in shallow-water sediment ecosystems: cyanobacterial mats, Ruppia maritima meadows, silty mud and sandy beach. We manipulated the diversity of these habitats over three consecutive seasons and measured bacterial diversity, benthic microalgal diversity and four functions related to marine nitrogen cycling (gross primary production, nitrogen fixation, denitrification and uptake of dissolved inorganic nitrogen). Our results showed that higher habitat and bacterial diversity, but not benthic microalgal diversity, increased landscape multifunctionality. However, the relative importance of habitat and bacterial diversity varied with season. Habitat diversity was generally the strongest driver, affecting multifunctionality directly in summer and indirectly via bacterial diversity in autumn. In spring, neither of the two aspects of diversity was important. Our study demonstrates the importance of considering temporal differences in both habitat and species diversity for landscape multifunctionality, and the importance of direct and indirect effects in mediating ecosystem functions. Habitat homogenization in concert with loss in biodiversity can thus be a driving force of declining ecosystem functioning and the services they underpin.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2036/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Marine Sciences, University of Gothenburg', u'Department of Forest Mycology and Plant Pathology, Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences', u'Department of Chemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Gothenburg']]
[u'Balancing under the high wire; a study into PTT antenna effects on the Common Guillemot Uria aalge', ['Sylvie P Vandenabeele', 'Emily LC Shepard', 'Adam Grogan', 'Richard Thompson', 'Adrian C Gleiss', 'Rory P Wilson'], u'2016-05-10', u'External tags fitted to diving birds can affect them in many ways with the most critical effect being an increase in drag. The effects of transmitters can be even more acute due to the presence of a protruding aerial. The study assesses the impact of PTT antenna on the behaviour and energetics of device-equipped guillemots (Uria aalge) in captivity. Birds with antenna-devices appeared to consume about 20% more energy than non-antenna birds during the descent phase of the dive. The balance of the birds while diving or resting on the water also appeared to be compromised by the presence of an antenna. Based on these first results and because transmitters are one of the most common methods used to track animals, it appears critical to determine what impact these devices, and particularly antenna, can have on their bearers and try minimize it.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2035/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Ethical Issues'], [u'Biosciences, Swansea University', u'Wildlife Department, Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals', u'Mallydams Wood Wildlife Centre, Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals', u'Centre for Fish and Fisheries Research, Murdoch University']]
