[u'AmrZ is a positive regulator of swimming motility in Pseudomonas stutzeri', ['David A Baltrus', 'Kevin Dougherty', 'Rachel Murillo', 'Beatriz Dias'], u'2016-05-11', u'amrZ, a master regulator protein conserved across Pseudomonads, can be either a positive or negative regulator of swimming motility depending on the species examined. To better understand plasticity in the regulatory function of AmrZ, we characterized the mode of regulation for this protein for swimming motility in P. stutzeri. As in P. syringae, AmrZ functions as a positive regulator of motility within P. stutzeri, which suggests that the functions of this protein with regards to swimming motility have switched at least twice across Pseudomonads. We further show that divergence between P. stutzeri and P. aeruginosa alleles of AmrZ does not explain shifts in regulatory mode. Further investigation into the mechanisms underlying shifts in regulatory function for AmrZ could provide unique insights into the evolution of bacterial regulatory proteins.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2041/', ['Genetics', 'Microbiology'], [u'Plant Sciences, University of Arizona']]
[u'The relationship between information carrying words, memory and language skills in school age children with language impairment', ['Pauline Frizelle', 'Jennifer Harte', "Kathleen O'Sullivan", 'Paul Fletcher', 'Fiona E. Gibbon'], u'2016-05-11', u'The receptive language measure information-carrying word (ICW) level is used extensively by speech and language therapists (SLTs) in the UK and Ireland. Despite this it has never been validated via its relationship to any other relevant measures. This study aims to validate the ICW measure by investigating the relationship between the receptive ICW score of children with language impairment (LI) and their performance on standardized memory and language assessments. Twenty-seven children with LI, aged between 5;07 and 8;11, completed a sentence comprehension task in which the instructions gradually increased in number of ICWs. The children also completed subtests from The Working Memory Test Battery for children and The Clinical Evaluation of Language Fundamentals \u2013 4. Results showed that there was a significant positive relationship between both language and memory measures and children\u2019s ICW score but that language was the greater contributor in children\u2019s ability to do this task. ICW score is in fact a valid measure of the language ability of children with LI. However therapists should also be cognisant of its strong association with working memory when using this construct in assessment or intervention methods.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2040/', ['Cognitive Disorders', 'Pediatrics', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Oxford', u'Department of Speech and Hearing Sciences, University College Cork', u'School of Mathematics, University College Cork']]
