[u'The Ecology of Stress: linking life-history traits with physiological control mechanisms in free-living guanacos', ['Ramiro J.A. Ovejero Aguilar', 'Graciela A Jahn', 'Mauricio Soto-Gamboa', 'Andres Novaro', 'Pablo Carmanchahi'], u'2016-06-07', u"Background-Providing the context for the evolution of life-history traits, habitat features constrain successful ecological and physiological strategies. In vertebrates, a key response to life's challenges is the activation of the Stress (HPA) and Gonadal (HPG) axes. Much of the interest in stress ecology is motivated by the desire to understand the physiological mechanisms in which the environment affects fitness. As reported in the literature, several intrinsic and extrinsic factors affect variability in hormone levels. In both social and non-social animals, the frequency and type of interaction with conspecifics, as well as the status in social species, can affect HPA axis activity, resulting in changes in the reproductive success of animals. We predicted that a social environment can affect both guanaco axes by increasing the secretion of testosterone (T) and Glucocorticoid (GCs) in response to individual social interactions and the energetic demands of breeding. Assuming that prolonged elevated levels of GCs over time can be harmful to individuals, it is predicted that the HPA axis suppresses the HPG axis and causes T levels to decrease, as GCs increase.\nMethods-All of the data for individuals were collected by non-invasive methods (fecal samples) to address hormonal activities. This is a novel approach in physiological ecology because feces are easily obtained through non-invasive sampling in animal populations.\nResults- As expected, there was a marked adrenal (p-value= .344e-12) and gonadal (p-value= 0.002656) response due to seasonal variation in Lama guanicoe. No significant differences were found in fecal GCs metabolites between males/females*season for the entire study period (p-value= 0.2839). Despite the seasonal activity variation in the hormonal profiles, our results show a positive correlation (p-value= 1.952e-11,COR=0.50) between the adrenal and gonadal system. The marked endocrine (r2 = 0.806) and gonad (r2 = 0.7231) response due to seasonal variation in male guanaco individuals highlights the individual\u2019s energetic demands according to life-history strategies. This is a remarkable result because no inhibition was found between the axes as theory suggests. Finally, the dataset was used to build a reactive scope model for guanacos.\nDiscussion-Guanacos cope with the trade-off between sociability and reproductive benefits and costs, by regulating their GCs and T levels on a seasonal basis, suggesting an adaptive role of both axes to different habitat pressures. The results presented here highlight the functional role of stress and gonad axes on a critical phase of a male mammal's life\u2014the mating period\u2014when all of the resources are at the disposal of the male and must be used to maximize the chances for reproductive success.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2108/', ['Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Laboratorio de Ecolog\xeda Conductual, Instituto de Ciencias Ambientales y Evolutivas, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad Austral de Chile, Laboratorio de Interacciones Ecol\xf3gicas (LIE) IADIZA-CONICET, Mendoza-Argentina.', u'IMBECU', u'Facultad de Ciencias, Laboratorio de Ecolog\xeda Conductual, Instituto de Ciencias Ambientales y Evolutivas, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad Austral de Chile', u'Programa Estepa-Andino Patagonica-CONICET-PATAGONIA NORTE-INIBIOMA', u'Grupo de Investigaci\xf3n de Eco-fisiolog\xeda de Fauna Silvestre (GIEFAS), Asentamiento Universitario de San Mart\xedn de los Andes (AUSMA), Universidad Nacional del Comahue (INIBIOMA-CONICET -AUSMA-UNCo)']]
[u'The potential of bacteriocin AS-48 in the control of Propionibacterium acnes', ['Ruben Cebrian', 'Sergio Arevalo', 'Samir Ananou', 'Salvador Arias-Santiago', 'Cristina Riazzo', 'Maria Dolores Rojo', 'Maria Pilar Bermudez-Ruiz', 'Eva Valdivia', 'Manuel Martinez-Bueno', 'Mercedes Maqueda'], u'2016-06-07', u'Background Global reports show that the antimicrobial-resistance of Propionibacterium acnes isolated from patients with acne vulgaris is becoming a large problem, making it necessary to find new therapeutic drugs.\nMethods In this study, 23 clinical isolates of P. acnes have been identified by MaldiToff and specific PCR. The susceptibility of theses strains to antibiotics (clindamicin, erytromycin and tetracicline) and to bacteriocin (AS-48) has been established, using the CECT 5684 strain as reference. Moreover, we have investigated the potential of several chemical compounds to bolster the activity of AS-48. Finally, the effectivity of four different formulations containing AS-48 and lysozyme have been evaluated on the surface of swine-ear skin previously inoculated with P. acnes CECT5684 strain.\nResults. The results presented in this work probe that AS-48 has a significant bactericidal activity against the 23 clinical isolates of P. acnes, including isolates resistant to one or more common antibiotics used in the treatment of acne. Antibacterial synergy of AS-48 with other chemical compounds has been demonstrated, as was the effect of lysozyme and to a lesser extent with palmitic acid. Likewise, the use of a combination therapy into a cream formulation, resulted in large decrease in the number of viable P. acnes counts in an experiemental model.\nConclusion. Once more these studios support that compositions comprising bacteriocins displaying antibacterial activity, must be considered an approach for medical and pharmaceutical purposes. These applications are particularly promising in light of emerging antibiotic resistance across bacteria involved in treatment of dermatological disease as acne vulgaris.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2107/', ['Microbiology', 'Dermatology', 'Infectious Diseases'], [u'Department of Microbiology, University of Granada', u'Department of Dermatology, Hospital Virgen de las Nieves', u'Microbiology Service, Hospital Virgen de las Nieves', u'Microbiology Service, Virgen de las NIeves Hospital', u'Microbiology Service, Hospital Regional Universitario de Malaga']]
[u'Dynamics of total proteins during stress alleviation in tomato infected with cucumber mosaic virus', ['Rana Muhammad Sabir M Tariq', 'Nighat Sarwar', 'Imran Ul Haq', 'Shahbaz Talib Sahi', 'Muhammad Dildar Gogi'], u'2016-06-06', u'Background: Phytoalexins are the secondary metabolites produced in crop plants after the attack of necrotizing pathogens. They are aimed to support homeostasis in stressed plants. Proteins are also part of this regime that is manipulated according to the type of infection or environmental stress. Chemical elicitors substitute the traditional fungicides and safe to use. They also modify protein levels due to their direct or indirect influence on the defense pathways. Methodology: An in vitro study was conducted on tomato seedlings inoculated with cucumber mosaic virus (CMV). Plants were treated with salicylic acid and BTH at different intervals to find out the alterations in the total soluble proteins. Purpose of study was to investigate the variation in total proteins during the viral attack and role of elicitors in this case. Results: Results indicated that protein level was initially reduced (133.3 mg) in the inoculated plants prior to the application of elicitors. However, BTH alone or combined with SA significantly enhanced total soluble proteins (200.3 mg) in tomato leaves when applied on weekly intervals. Single application of Salicylic acid gave similar response as in case of non-inoculated plants, however weekly applied SA reduced the total proteins to much lower extent (83.6 mg) under the CMV stress. Discussion: Modification of total proteins in a single tomato cultivar along with homogenous environmental factors indicates the active role of chemical elicitors in the defense pathways. BTH is a structural homologue to SA but expressed a remarkable functional contrast under viral attack particularly in solanaceous crops. This novelty in plant science is worthy of discussion.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2105/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Plant Pathology, University of Agriculture Faisalabad', u'Plant protection division, Nuclear Institute for Agriculture and Biology', u'Department of Entomology, University of Agriculture Faisalabad']]
