[u'Software Citation Principles', ['Arfon M Smith', 'Daniel S Katz', 'Kyle E Niemeyer'], u'2016-06-27', u'Software is a critical part of modern research and yet there is little support across the scholarly ecosystem for its acknowledgement and citation. Inspired by the activities of the FORCE11 working group focussed on data citation, this document summarizes the recommendations of the FORCE11 Software Citation Working Group and its activities between June 2015 and April 2016. Based on a review of existing community practices, the goal of the working group was to produce a consolidated set of citation principles that may encourage broad adoption of a consistent policy for software citation across disciplines and venues. Our work is presented here as a set of software citation principles, a discussion of the motivations for developing the principles, reviews of existing community practice, and a discussion of the requirements these principles would place upon different stakeholders. Working examples and possible technical solutions for how these principles can be implemented will be discussed in a separate paper.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2169/', ['Digital Libraries', 'Software Engineering'], [u'GitHub, Inc.', u'National Center for Supercomputing Applications & Electrical and Computer Engineering Department & School of Information Sciences, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign', u'School of Mechanical, Industrial, and Manufacturing Engineering, Oregon State University']]
[u'Food availability and flight routes for migratory birds: a GIS approach', ['Clara Tattoni', 'Erica Soardi', 'Paolo Zatelli', 'Marco Ciolli'], u'2016-06-27', u'Bird migration is a wide studied phenomenon but still many factors that influence migratory flows remain unknown or poorly understood. Food availability en route is particularly important for many species and can affect their migration success, pattern and timing but this relationship have not often been addressed at wide scale due to the lack of spatial models of food availability on the terrain.The aim of this work is to fill this gap with a GIS-database approach that links together spatial and non-spatial information in order to map and measure food availability in the different periods of the year in the SE Alps, an important node of European migratory routes. We created a unique database that contains information on the presence and periods of fruitification of 52 wild plants carriyng berries and a series of original cartographic themes. With this approach we were able to identify various flyways and compare them with known stopover sites, ringing stations and food availability using a mix of techniques of statistical geostatistical and interpretation of ecological data.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2168/', ['Spatial and Geographic Information Systems'], [u'Dipartimento di Ingegneria Civila Ambientale e Meccanica, Universit\xe0 di Trento']]
[u'Genome-wide identification and characterization of WRKY gene family in Salix suchowensis', ['Changwei Bi', 'Yiqing Xu', 'Qiaolin Ye', 'Tongming Yin', 'Ning Ye'], u'2016-06-27', u'WRKY proteins are the plant-specific zinc finger transcription factors. They can specifically interact with the W-box ([C/T]TGAC[T/C]), which can be found in the promoter region of a large number of plant target genes, to regulate the expressions of downstream target genes. They also participate in diverse physiological and growing processes in plants. Prior to the present studies, plentiful WRKY genes have been identified and characterized in herbaceous species, but there is no large-scale study of WRKY genes in willow. With the whole genome sequencing in Salix suchowensis, we have the opportunity to conduct the genome-wide research for willow WRKY gene family. In this study, we identified 85 WRKY genes in the willow genome and renamed them from SsWRKY1 to SsWRKY85 on the basis of their specific distributions on chromosomes. Due to their diverse structural features, the 85 willow WRKY genes could be further classified into three main groups (group I - III), with five subgroups (IIa - IIe) in group II. With the multiple sequence alignment and the manual search, we found three variations of the WRKYGQK heptapeptide: WRKYGRK, WKKYGQK and WRKYGKK, and four variations of the normal zinc finger motif, which might execute some new biological functions. In addition, the SsWRKY genes from the same subgroup share the similar exon\u2013intron structures and conserved motif domains. Further studies of SsWRKY genes revealed that segmental duplication events played the prominent roles in the expansion of SsWRKY genes. Distinct expression profiles of SsWRKY genes with RNA sequencing data revealed that diverse expression patterns among five tissues, including tender roots, young leaves, vegetative buds, non-lignified stems and barks. With the analyses of WRKY gene family in willow, it is not only beneficial to complete the functional and annotation information of WRKY genes family in woody plants, but also provide important references to investigate the expansion and evolution of this gene family in flowering plants.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2167/', ['Genetics', 'Plant Science'], [u'College of Information Science and Technology, Nanjing Forestry University', u'College of Forest Resources and Environment, Nanjing Forestry University']]
[u'Sex ratio elasticity influences the selection of sex ratio strategy', ['Yaqiang Wang', 'Ruiwu Wang', 'Yaotang Li', 'Zhanshan (Sam) Ma'], u'2016-06-27', u'There are three sex ratio strategies (SRS) in nature\u2014male-biased sex ratio, female-biased sex ratio and, equal sex ratio depending on the proportion of male offspring being greater than, less than, or equal to \xbd. The problem was already noted in Darwin\u2019s (1859) \u201cOrigin of Species,\u201d and it was R. A. Fisher (1930) who first explained why most species in nature display a sex ratio of \xbd. Consequent SRS theories such as Hamilton\u2019s (1967) local mate competition (LMC) and Clark\u2019s (1978) local resource competition (LRC) separately explained the observed deviations from the seemingly universal 1:1 ratio. However, to the best of our knowledge, there is not yet a unified theory that accounts for the mechanisms of the three SRS. Here, we introduce the price elasticity theory in economics to define sex ratio elasticity (SRE), and present an analytical model that derives three SRSs based on the following assumption: simultaneously existing competitions for both resources and mates influence the level of SRE in both sexes differently. Consequently, it is the difference (between two sexes) in the level of their sex ratio elasticity that leads to three different SRS. Our analytical results demonstrate that the elasticity-based model not only reveals a highly plausible mechanism that explains the evolution of SRS in nature, but also offers a novel framework for unifying two major classical theories (i.e., LMC & LRC) in the field of SRS research.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2166/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Mathematical Biology'], [u'School of Mathematics and Statistics, Yunnan University', u'Institute of Mathematics and Information Science, Baoji University of Arts and Sciences', u'Experimental & Theoretical Ecology Lab & State Key Laboratory of Genetic Resources & Evolution, Chinese Academy of Science', u'Computational Biology & Medical Ecology Lab & State Key Laboratory of Genetic Resources & Evolution, Chinese Academy of Science']]
[u'Did an Ebola outbreak influence the 2014 U.S. federal elections? (Hint: Only if you ignore autocorrelation)', ['Leonid Tiokhin', 'Daniel Hruschka'], u'2016-06-27', u'In a recent paper, Beall, Hofer, and Schaller (2016) use observational time series data to test the hypothesis that the 2014 Ebola outbreak influenced the 2014 U.S. Federal Elections. They find substantial associations between online search volume for Ebola and people\u2019s tendency to vote Republican, an effect observed primarily in states with norms favoring Republican candidates. However, the analyses do not deal with the well-known problem of temporal autocorrelation in time series. We show that all variables analyzed exhibit extremely high levels of temporal autocorrelation (i.e. similarity in data-point values across time). After appropriately removing first-order autocorrelation, the observed relationships are attenuated and non-significant. This suggests that either no real associations exist, or that existing data are insufficiently powered to test the proposed hypotheses. We conclude by highlighting other pitfalls of observational data analysis, and draw attention to analytical strategies developed in related disciplines for avoiding these errors.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2165/', ['Anthropology', 'Evolutionary Studies'], [u'School of Human Evolution and Social Change, Arizona State University', u'Center for Evolution & Medicine, Arizona State University']]
