[u'Tracheophyte phylogeny poster - Vascular plants: systematics and characteristics', ['Theodor C H Cole', 'Hartmut H Hilger'], u'2016-12-01', u'The "Tracheophyte Phylogeny Poster \u2013 Vascular Plants: Systematics and Characteristics" is an educational tool presenting an overview of the evolutionary relationships among vascular plants as of 2016. The phylogenetic tree depicts orders and families (incl. genera in gymnosperms), listing the main apomorphies and plesiomorphies as well as diagnostic and nondiagnostic anatomical and morphological features. The intuitive color-coding facilitates memorization and teaching. Translations of the poster into various languages are being made available. The recommendations of the Pteridophyte Phylogeny Group (PPG) are followed here. This is one in a series of three educational posters on the phylogeny of land plants: Poster 1: "Angiosperms", Poster 2: "Tracheophytes: Lycophytes, Ferns, Gymnosperms", Poster 3: "Bryophytes: Liverworts, Mosses, Hornworts".', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2614/', ['Biodiversity', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Plant Science', 'Taxonomy', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Institute of Pharmacy and Molecular Biotechnology, Heidelberg University', u'Institute of Biology \u2013 Plant Morphology and Systematics, Freie Universit\xe4t Berlin']]
[u'Metagenome sequencing and 98 microbial genomes from Juan de Fuca Ridge flank subsurface fluids', ['Sean P Jungbluth', 'Jan P Amend', 'Michael S Rappe'], u'2016-12-01', u'The global deep subsurface biosphere is thought to be one of the largest reservoirs for microbial life on our planet. This study takes advantage of new sampling technologies and couples them with improvements to DNA sequencing and associated informatics tools to reconstruct the genomes of uncultivated Bacteria and Archaea from fluids collected deep within the subseafloor of the Juan de Fuca Ridge. Here, we generated two metagenomes from borehole observatories located 311 meters apart and, using binning tools, retrieved 98 genomes from metagenomes (GFMs) with completeness > 10%. Of the GFMs, 31 were estimated to be > 90% complete, while an additional 17 were > 70% complete. In most instances, estimated redundancy in the GFMs was < 10%. Phylogenomic analysis revealed 53 bacterial and 45 archaeal GFMs and nearly all were distantly related to known cultivates. In the GFMs, abundant bacteria included Chloroflexi, Nitrospirae, Acetothermia (OP1), EM3, Aminicenantes (OP8), Gammaproteobacteria, and Deltaproteobacteria and abundant archaea included Archaeoglobi, Bathyarchaeota (MCG), and Marine Benthic Group E (MBG-E). In this study, we identified the first near-complete genomes from archaeal and bacterial lineages THSCG, MBG-E, and EM3 and, based on the warm, subsurface and hydrothermally-associated from which these groups tend to be found, propose the names, Geothermarchaeota, Hydrothermarchaeota, and Hydrothermae, respectively. The data set presented here are the first description of Juan de Fuca igneous basement microbial GFMs reported and will provide a platform by which one can perform a higher level interrogation of the many uncultivated lineages presented herein.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2613/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Oceanography, University of Hawaii at Manoa', u'Center for Dark Energy Biosphere Investigations, University of Southern California', u'Department of Earth Sciences, University of Southern California', u'Department of Biological Sciences, University of Southern California', u'Hawaii Institute of Marine Biology, University of Hawaii at Manoa']]
