[u'Species-specific pharmacology of maximakinin, an amphibian homologue of bradykinin: putative prodrug activity at the human B2 receptor and peptidase resistance in rat', ['Xavier Charest-Morin', 'Helene Bachelard', 'Melissa Jean', 'Francois Marceau'], u'2016-12-17', u'Maximakinin (MK), an amphibian peptide possessing the C-terminal sequence of bradykinin (BK), is a BK B2 receptor (B2R) agonist eliciting prolonged signaling. We reinvestigated this 19-mer for species-specific pharmacologic profile, in vivo confirmation of resistance to inactivation by angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE), value as a module for the design of fusion proteins that bind to the B2R in mammalian species and potential activity as a histamine releaser. Competition of the binding of [3H]BK to recombinant human myc-B2Rs in cells that express these receptors revealed that MK possessed a tenuous fraction (<0.1%) of the affinity of BK, despite being only ~10-fold less potent than BK in a contractility assay based on the human isolated umbilical vein. These findings are reconciled by the generation of C-terminal fragments, like Lys-Gly-Pro-BK and Gly-Pro-BK, when the latent MK is incubated with human venous tissue (LC-MS), supporting activation via hydrolysis upstream of the BK sequence. At the rat recombinant myc-B2R, MK had a lesser affinity than that of BK, but with a narrower margin (6.2-fold, radioligand binding competition). Accordingly, MK (10 nM) stimulated calcium transients in cells that expressed the rat receptors, but not the human B2R. Recombinant MRGPRX2, a receptor that mediates cationic peptide-induced mast cell secretion, minimally responded by increased [Ca+2]i to MK at 10 \u03bcM. Enhanced green fluorescent protein fused to MK (EGFP-MK) labeled cells that expressed rat, but not human B2Rs. Intravenous MK induced dose-dependent hypotensive, vasodilator and tachycardic responses in anesthetized rats and the effects were antagonized by pretreatment with icatibant but not modified by pyrilamine or enalaprilat. Strong species-specific responses to the toxin-derived peptide MK and its prodrug status in the isolated human vein were evidenced. Accordingly, MK in the EGFP-MK fusion protein is a pharmacophore module that confers affinity for the rat B2R, but not for the human form of the B2R. MK is unlikely to be an efficient mast cell activator, but its resistance to inactivation by ACE was confirmed in vivo.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2641/', ['Cardiology', 'Pharmacology'], [u'Axe Microbiologie-Infectiologie et Immunologie, CHU de Qu\xe9bec-Universit\xe9 Laval and Universit\xe9 Laval', u'Axe endocrinologie et n\xe9phrologie, CHU de Qu\xe9bec-Universit\xe9 Laval and Universit\xe9 Laval']]
[u'Congregating behavior and response to resource distribution of the Green House Millipede, Oxidus gracilis', ['Gregory Bulpitt'], u'2016-12-17', u'Background. Congregating behaviors, though common among many animal species, are little studied among millipedes. It is also unclear to what extent abiotic factors influence the distribution and behavior of millipedes. The species Oxidus gracilis was surveyed around several streams on the island of Mo\u2019orea along with soil moisture, leaf litter cover, and rock cover. Experiments were designed in order to determine how an innate congregating behavior may affect their distributions.\nMethods. Fifteen transects were performed in the field, recording O. gracilis abundances and the three environmental factors every 1 m. Forty trials were performed using covered bins filled with soil and five fruits of the Tahitian chestnut tree (Inocarpus fagifer). Ten millipedes were placed in the box and left for an hour, after which the number of individuals per fruit was recorded.\nResults.  It was found that while none of the three environmental factors were strong indicators of the distribution of O. gracilis , individuals did in fact demonstrate a tendency to congregate in the experimental trials.\nDiscussion.  The lack of significant relationships with the three environmental parameters suggests a generalist behavior of this millipede species, potentially benefitting its invasive nature. The congregating behavior could potentially be for the purposes of mating or defense. Although not studied in this paper, it is possible that conspecific chemical cues are responsible.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2642/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology'], [u'Department of Integrative Biology, University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'Biological facilitation of the giant tree fern Angiopteris evecta in the germination of the invasive velvet tree Miconia calvescens', ['Jaemin Lee'], u'2016-12-17', u'Background. Biological facilitation is a type of relationship between two taxa that benefits at least one of the participants and harms neither. Although native species are widely known to compete with native taxa, recent studies suggest that invasive and native species can have positive relationships. This study aims to examine the biological facilitation of the germination of invasive Miconia calvescens by giant tree fern Angiopteris evecta , native to French Polynesia.\nMethods. Field surveys were conducted to measure A. evecta and M. calvescens by applying the 10 \xd7 10 m 2 quadrat survey method. The density of seedlings, saplings, and matures of M. calvescens growing on the rhizomes of A. evecta and on bare soil was compared, and the correlation between the size of the rhizomes and the number of M. calvescens growing on them was checked. Comparative soil nutrient experiments were done for the substrates of the rhizomes of A. evecta, soil under the rhizomes, and bare soils to check whether the rhizomes are chemically different than other microenvironments.\nResults. Field surveys show that there is a greater number of seedlings and saplings of M. calvescens growing on the rhizomes of A. evecta as compared to bare soil. Furthermore, there is a positive correlation between the size of rhizomes and the number of M. calvescens growing on them. Substrates of A. evecta had higher phosphorus and potassium contents compared to other soils and substrates.\nDiscussion. Angiopteris evecta is facilitating the germination of M. calvescens, supported by the much higher number of seedlings and saplings growing on the rhizomes and the positive correlation between the size of the rhizome and the number of M. calvescens growing on it. Microslopes on the rhizomes of A. evecta prevent leaf litter from accumulating on the rhizomes, and enable more sunlight to reach and facilitate the germination of M. calvescens seeds. Also, field observations suggest that A. evecta has fast decomposing leaves, which can induce the germination and the recruitment of M. calvescens in forest understories dominated by A. evecta by preventing the accumulation of leaf litter on the ground and enabling more sunlight to reach to the seed bank. The germination of trees in tropical rainforest is known to be limited by the availability for potassium, suggesting that the rhizomes of A. evecta might be favored chemically. However, further studies are needed to verify whether potassium is a limiting factor of the germination of M. calvescens. Biological facilitation of the germination of invasive M. calvescens by native A. evecta can give better understanding on the invasion success and the relationship between the native and invasive species. Invasion of A. evecta can induce and promote further invasion of M. calvescens. Therefore, thorough management of ongoing invasion of A. evecta in some places is especially required.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2643/', ['Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Plant Science'], [u'College of Letters and Science, University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'Strategies for biomedical software management, sharing, and citation', ['Daniel S Katz', 'Kyle Niemeyer', 'Arfon M Smith'], u'2016-12-17', u'This document is an open response to the NIH Request for Information (RFI): Strategies for NIH Data Management, Sharing, and Citation, Notice Number: NOT-OD-17-015, written by the leaders of the FORCE11 Software Citation Working Group from its inception in mid-2015 through today. This group produced a set of Software Citation Principles and related discussion, which are the basis for this document. Here, we describe research software, summarize the software citation principles, discuss open issues related to software citation, and make recommendations to the NIH.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2640/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Science Policy'], [u'University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign', u'Oregon State University', u'Space Telescope Science Institute']]
[u'Drug discovery by integration of pharmacophore modeling, virtual screening and biological evaluation by means of bioinformatics resources', ['Serena Dotolo', 'Angelo Facchiano'], u'2016-12-17', u'Drug discovery is a step-by-step process very important in biopharmaceutical field. We are interested in identifying new investigational drug-likes as potential inhibitors of determinate biological-therapeutic targets, trying to decrease the side effects and to safeguard the human health. However, it is a long and very expensive process. Therefore, we are using a new computational strategy, based on Pharmacophore modeling, to select bioactive substances (natural or synthetic), through the integration of bioinformatics online tools and local resource and platforms, in order to include into the strategy also knowledge from high-throughput studies, for new potential lead compounds generation-optimization, trying to accelerate the early phase of the drug development process. The protocol of this new computational strategy is characterized by a multi-step design focused on: 1) screening in RCSB-PDB for a crystal structure of a specific biological target, suitable for the following steps; 2) pharmacophore modeling and virtual computational screening, by using public domain databases of bioactive compounds, as the ZINC12 database [5], in order to find a promising molecule that could become a new potential medicine. 3) molecular and biological evaluation, to check the compounds selected by virtual screening, for their biological properties through public databases, as PubChem Compound, SciFinder, and Chemicalize to trace their origin and underline their most important physical-chemical features, PathPred (an enzyme-catalyzed metabolic pathway predictor server) to highlight and identify their biosynthetic-metabolic pathways and investigating the biotransformation of best candidates, analyzing their metabolites and their potential biological activity. Moreover, ADMET/toxicity predictor server applying the Lipinski-Veber filter are used to calculate the bioavailability the ADMET/toxicity properties. After this check, only molecules with good bioavailability, good predicted activity and good ADMET properties are considered as hits compounds or drug-likes to direct the design of next experimental assays [6]. Finally, the lead compounds selected are analyzed through molecular dynamics simulations. 4) simulations of molecular dynamics on the best lead compounds, to investigate atomic details of protein-compound molecular interactions in different conditions (different organic solutions, organisms and systems).\nREFERENCES\n[1] Dubey A, Facchiano A, Ramteke PW, Marabotti A. \u201cIn silico approach to find chymase inhibitors among biogenic compounds.\u201d Future Med Chem. 2016; 8(8):841-51\n[2] Dubey A, Marabotti A, Ramteke PW, Facchiano A. "Interaction of human chymase with ginkgolides, terpene trilactones of Ginkgo biloba investigated by molecular docking simulations.\u201d Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2016; 473(2):449-54.\n[3] Katara P. \u201cRole of bioinformatics and pharmacogenomics in drug discovery and development process\u201d. Netw Model Anal Health Inform Bioinforma 2013; 2: 225-230.\n[4] Sunseri J. and Koes D. R. \u201cPharmit: Interactive Exploration of Chemical Space\u201d.Nucl. Acids Res. 2016; 44(W1): W442-448.\n[5] Irwin J.J. and Shoichet B.K. \u201cZINC- A free database of Commercially Available Compounds for Virtual Screening\u201d. J.Chem.Inf.Model. 2005; 45: 177-182.\n[6] Kaserer T., Beck K. R., Akram M., Odermatt A., Schuster D. \u201cPharmacophore Models and Pharmacophore-Based Virtual Screening: Concepts and Application Exemplified on Hydroxysteroid Dehydrogenases\u201d.Molecules 2015; 20: 22799\u201322832.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2639/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Drugs and Devices'], [u'Department of Biochemistry, Biophysics and General Pathology, Universit\xe0 degli Studi della Campania \u201cLuigi Vanvitelli\u201d', u'Institute of Food Science, National Research Council']]
[u'Local genes for local bacteria: evidence of allopatry in the genomes of transatlantic Campylobacter populations', ['Ben Pascoe', 'Guillaume Meric', 'Koji Yahara', 'Helen Wimaralathna', 'Susan Murray', 'Matthew D Hitchings', 'Emma L Sproston', 'Catherine D Carrillo', 'Eduardo N Taboada', 'Kerry K Cooper', 'Steven Huynh', 'Alison J Cody', 'Keith A Jolley', 'Martin CJ Maiden', 'Noel D McCarthy', 'Xavier Didelot', 'Craig Parker', 'Samuel K Sheppard'], u'2016-12-16', u'The genetic structure of bacterial populations can be related to geographical locations of isolation. In some species, there is a strong correlation between geographical distances and genetic distances, which can be caused by different evolutionary mechanisms. Patterns of ancient admixture in Helicobacter pylori can be reconstructed in concordance with past human migration, whereas in Mycobacterium tuberculosis it is the lack of recombination that causes allopatric clusters. In Campylobacter, analyses of genomic data and molecular typing have been successful in determining the reservoir host species, but not geographical origin. We investigated biogeographical variation in highly recombining genes to determine the extent of clustering between genomes from geographically distinct Campylobacter populations. Whole genome sequences from 294 Campylobacter isolates from North America and the UK were analysed. Isolates from within the same country shared more recently recombined DNA than isolates from different countries. Using 15 UK/American pairs of isolates that shared ancestors, we identify regions that have frequently and recently recombined to test their correlation with geographical origin. The seven genes that demonstrated the greatest clustering by geography were used in an attribution model to infer geographical origins and tested using a further 383 UK clinical isolates to detect signatures of recent foreign travel. Patient records indicated that in 46 cases travel abroad had occurred less than two weeks prior to sampling: genomic analysis indicated that 34 (74%) of these isolates were of a non-UK origin. Identification of biogeographical markers in Campylobacter genomes will contribute to improved source attribution of clinical Campylobacter infection and inform intervention strategies to reduce campylobacteriosis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2638/', ['Biogeography', 'Bioinformatics', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology', 'Epidemiology'], [u'The Milner Centre for Evolution, University of Bath', u'Department of Bacteriology II, National Institute of Infectious Diseases', u'Department of Zoology, University of Oxford', u'Swansea University Medical School, Swansea University', u'Bureau of Microbial Hazarads, Health Canada', u'Canadian Food Inspection Agency', u'National Microbiology Laboratory, Public Health Agency of Canada', u'Department of Biology, California State University', u'Produce Safety and Microbiology Research, US Department of Agriculture', u'Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick', u'Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology, Imperial College London']]
[u'The qPMO network: quality management tools to improve research efficiency, reproducibility, data management and dissemination', ['Antonella Bongiovanni', 'Giovanna Lucia Liguori', 'Gianni Colotti', 'Anna Maria Cirafici', 'Marta Di Carlo', 'Filomena Anna Digilio', 'Giuseppina Lacerra', 'Antonella Lanati', 'Anna Mascia', 'Annamaria Kisslinger'], u'2016-12-16', u'Quality disciplines have been widely used for decades in industrial and business fields. It is only in recent times, however, that Quality management and approaches have received proper attention in life science. In particular, the need for Quality standards in non-regulated research is a matter of considerable current debate inside international research community. The Quality and Project Management OpenLab (qPMO) is a research network involving 5 different Institutes and two Departmentes of the Italian National Research Council (CNR), aimed at realizing a Total Quality Management (TQM) model for Life Sciences laboratories. This TQM OpenLab model will act as a uniform environment in which strong, innovation-oriented research projects can be designed and developed according to international Quality standards and with the planning of Horizon 2020. Our experience demonstrates that Quality management tools can strongly support the management of scientific research through disseminating knowledge, best practice and interoperability and enhance of the economic value of project and research outcomes.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2637/', ['Cell Biology', 'Food Science and Technology', 'Genetics', 'Molecular Biology', 'Science Policy'], [u'National Research Council CNR, Institute of Biomedicine and Molecular Immunology', u'National Research Council CNR, Institute of Genetics and Biophysics', u'National Research Council, Institute of Molecular Biology and Pathology', u'National Research Council CNR, Institute of Experimental Endocrinology and Oncology', u'National Research Council CNR, Institute of Biosciences and Bioresources', u'Valore Qualit\xe0']]
