[u'Optimizing the use of a sensor resource for opponent polarization coding', ['Francisco J. H. Heras', 'Simon B Laughlin'], u'2016-06-30', u'Flies use specialized photoreceptors R7 and R8 in the dorsal rim area (DRA) to detect skylight polarization. R7 and R8 form a tiered waveguide (rhabdom) with R7 on top, filtering light delivered to R8. We examine how the division of a given resource, rhabdom length, between R7 and R8 affects their ability to code polarization angle. We model optical absorption to show how the length fractions allotted to R7 and R8 determine the rates at which they transduce photons, and correct these rates for transduction unit saturation. The rates give polarization signal and photon noise in R7, and in R8. Their signals are combined in an opponent unit, intrinsic noise added, and the unit\u2019s output analysed to extract two measures of coding ability, number of discriminable polarization angles and mutual information. A very long R7 maximizes opponent signal amplitude, but codes inefficiently due to photon noise in the very short R8. Discriminability and mutual information are optimized by maximizing signal to noise ratio, SNR. At lower light levels approximately equal lengths of R7 and R8 are optimal because photon noise dominates. At higher light levels intrinsic noise comes to dominate and a shorter R8 is optimum. The optimum R8 length fractions falls to one third. This intensity dependent range of optimal length fractions corresponds to the range observed in different fly species and is not affected by transduction unit saturation. We conclude that a limited resource, rhabdom length, can be divided between two polarization sensors, R7 and R8, to optimize opponent coding. We also find that coding ability increases sub-linearly with total rhabdom length, according to the law of diminishing returns. Consequently the specialized shorter central rhabdom in the DRA codes polarization twice as efficiently with respect to rhabdom length than the longer rhabdom used in the rest of the eye.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2192/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Biophysics', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Neuroscience', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Zoology, University of Cambridge']]
[u'Monitoring natural and rural ecosystems using the NDVI anomaly: an application to the Umbria Region', ['Gianluca Massei', 'Lucia Rocchi', 'Luisa Paolotti', 'Antonio Boggia'], u'2016-06-30', u'The aim of this work is to present a semi-automatic system that, through the use of a plurality of software tools, is able to obtain data from the satellite MODIS / Terra Vegetation Indices 16-Day L3 250m SIN Global Grid (MOD13Q1), to process them and to provide results (in terms of DEVNDVI) almost in real time. The model is applied to the Umbrian territory, for analyzing the dynamics of the vegetation. The applications proposed are two: the former is on the whole regional vegetation, while the latter considers just one specific agrarian typology, the olive orchards. The analysis of anomalies is possible thanks to a database of data collected since January 1st 2001. The comparison between NDVIi and NDVIaverage (the latter taken from the database) allows to identify areas, and the corresponding habitats, which show significant anomalies. Information obtained from such an analysis can be used for constructing synthetic indicators, representing the response of vegetation to climate variability. These indicators can be very useful to identify suffering areas, within particular habitat or ground coverings, such as vineyard and olive groves for example, or to monitor areas sensitive to climate variability (Sykes,2009)', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2191/', ['Spatial and Geographic Information Systems'], [u'Department of Agricultural, Food and Environmental Sciences, University of Perugia. Borgo XX Giugno 74, 06121 \u2013 Perugia, Italy, University of Perugia']]
[u'How patch size and habitat complexity changes interaction strength and population dynamics: a combined individual-based and population-based modeling experiment', ['Yuanheng Li', 'Ulrich Brose', 'Katrin Meyer', 'Bjorn C Rall'], u'2016-06-30', u'Understanding how functional responses (non-linear prey density dependent feeding interactions) are affected by patch size and habitat complexity is crucial as functional responses are the major determinants of food web stability and subsequently biodiversity. Due to its laborious character, measuring empirical functional responses systematically across large gradients of patch sizes and habitat complexity independently is almost impossible. Here we overcame this issue by using an individual-based predator-prey model allowing to simulate functional responses in patches ranging from the size of petri dishes to natural patches in the field. Moreover we are able to vary the habitat complexity independent of the patch size. Contradicting to the pervasive type II functional response that is still assumed as the appropriate model to describe feeding interactions we found a type III functional response in our simulations, independent of patch size and habitat complexity. Moreover, half-saturation density determining the feeding success at low prey densities decrease only with increasing habitat complexity and is only marginally influenced by patch size. Subsequent population dynamic model simulations indicate that small patches do not allow for survival of the predator, caused by a mismatch of the nearly constant functional response but an increasing extinction boundary with decreasing patch size. This effect is counteracted by increasing habitat complexity allowing both, the prey and the predator to co-exist. Our results underline the need for protecting large patches with high habitat complexity to sustain biodiversity.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2190/', ['Ecology', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'German Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Research (iDiv) Halle-Jena-Leipzig', u'Institute of Ecology, Friedrich-Schiller Universit\xe4t Jena', u'Johann-Friedrich-Blumenbach Institute of Zoology and Anthropology, Georg-August-Universit\xe4t G\xf6ttingen', u'Department of Ecosystem Modelling, Georg-August-Universit\xe4t G\xf6ttingen']]
[u'A qualitative view of the HIV epidemic in coastal Ecuador', ['Adam L Beckman', 'Magdelana M Wilson', 'Vishaal Prabhu', 'Nicola Soekoe', 'Humberto Mata', 'Lauretta E Grau'], u'2016-06-30', u'In 2013 approximately 37,000 people were living with HIV in Ecuador (prevalence 0.4%), representing a generalized epidemic where most new infections arise from sexual interactions in the general population. Studies that examine attitudes towards people living with HIV (PLWH), individual risk perception of acquiring HIV amongst Ecuadorians, and the ways in which levels of risk perception may affect risk behaviors are lacking. This qualitative study aimed to fill this gap in the literature by investigating these issues in the rural, coastal community of Manglaralto, Ecuador, which has among the highest incidence of HIV in Ecuador. We conducted interviews with 15 patients at Manglaralto Hospital. Analysis of interview transcripts revealed widespread negative attitudes towards PLWH, prevalent risk behaviors such as multiple sex partners and lack of condom use, and low individual risk-perception of contracting HIV. These findings underscore the need for increased efforts to prevent further growth of the HIV epidemic in Ecuador.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2189/', ['Global Health', 'Health Policy', 'HIV', 'Infectious Diseases', 'Public Health'], [u'Yale University', u'Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences, Yale School of Public Health', u'Fundaci\xf3n VIHDA', u'Center for Interdisciplinary Research on AIDS and the Department of Epidemiology of Microbial Disease, Yale School of Public Health']]
[u'HiPPO and PANDA: two bioinformatics tools to support analysis of high-dimensional mass cytometry data', ['Stefano Pirro', 'Andrea Cerquone Perpetuini', 'Milica Marinkovic', 'Livia Perfetto', 'Lucia Lisa Petrilli', 'Marco Rosina', 'Filomena Spada', 'Luisa Castagnoli', 'Gianni Cesareni'], u'2016-06-30', u'Biological processes are modulated by the interaction of different cell types and their study requires technologies able to analyse single cells in heterogeneous populations.\nHigh-dimensional mass cytometry enables the single cell analysis of more than 40 parameters. Several computational approaches have been proposed to reduce the multidimensionality of the datasets produced by this technology (i.e. SPADE and viSNE for clustering and visualization).\nWe have developed two new bioinformatics tools that help overcoming some of the limitations of the available toolboxes by defining quasi homogeneous cell populations (HIPPO) and by matching their expression profiles with that of cell populations described in the literature.\nHiPPO uses a supervised quantitation approach to discretize the expression distribution curves generated for each marker monitored in the experiments. Cells in the continuous, multidimensional dataset are converted into a bi-dimensional matrix where row and columns are events (cells) and markers, respectively.\nIn order to characterize cell populations, HiPPO queries PANDA, a manually-curated database which stores expression profiles for selected markers of primary cells. The comparison and PANDA discrete expression profiles with those identified by PANDA in the populations under study, allow to monitor cell type abundance.\nMoreover, given a set of experiments in different conditions, HiPPO can evaluate the variation of protein expression levels, for any identified population. This is performed by the use of Kolmogorov-Smirnov non-parametric test, evaluating empirical distribution differences of two samples. The analysis is conducted interactively, through a user-friendly web application.\nHiPPO ability to identify populations and rapidity of execution have been evaluated and compared with the popular SPADE and viSNE tools. For benchmarking we have used a published dataset of healthy human bone marrow biopsies analysed with the CyTOF platform by simultaneously measuring 34 parameters in single cells [1]. As use case, we focused on 5 cell populations (Mature/Na\xefve T-helper cells, Mature/Na\xefve T-cytotoxic cells, B cells). The abundance of cell populations identified by HiPPO is highly-comparable to SPADE and viSNE analysis conducted by the authors. On the other hand HIPPO is 2,15X faster in completing the analysis.\nHippo is a resource that can be easily used to analyze high-throughput multi-dimensional data. The synergy with PANDA represent a substantial improvement in the analysis pipeline and helps overcoming some of the shortcomings of other tools.\nHiPPO is freely available at http://160.80.35.248/hippo, PANDA at http://160.80.35.248/panda', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2188/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Department of Biology, University of Roma "Tor Vergata"']]
[u'Enhancing genetic algorithms using multi mutations', ['Ahmad B Hassanat', 'Esra  Kafaween', 'Nedal A Alnawaiseh', 'Mohammad A Abbadi', 'Mouhammd Alkasassbeh', 'Mahmoud B Alhasanat'], u'2016-06-30', u'Mutation is one of the most important stages of the genetic algorithm because of its impact on the exploration of global optima, and to overcome premature convergence. There are many types of mutation, and the problem lies in selection of the appropriate type, where the decision becomes more difficult and needs more trial and error. This paper investigates the use of more than one mutation operator to enhance the performance of genetic algorithms. Novel mutation operators are proposed, in addition to two selection strategies for the mutation operators, one of which is based on selecting the best mutation operator and the other randomly selects any operator. Several experiments on some Travelling Salesman Problems (TSP) were conducted to evaluate the proposed methods, and these were compared to the well-known exchange mutation and rearrangement mutation. The results show the importance of some of the proposed methods, in addition to the significant enhancement of the genetic algorithm\u2019s performance, particularly when using more than one mutation operator.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2187/', ['Algorithms and Analysis of Algorithms', 'Artificial Intelligence'], [u'IT, Mutah University', u'Department of Public Health & Community Medicine, University, Mutah University', u'Department of Civil Engineering, Al-Hussein Bin Talal University']]
[u'Big Data for disease prevention and precision medicine', ['Marco Moscatelli', 'Matteo Gnocchi', 'Andrea Manconi', 'Luciano Milanesi'], u'2016-06-29', u'Motivation \n\nNowadays, advances in technology has arisen in a huge amount of data in both biomedical research and healthcare systems. This growing amount of data gives rise to the need for new research methods and analysis techniques. Analysis of these data offers new opportunities to define novel diagnostic processes. Therefore, a greater integration between healthcare and biomedical data is essential to devise novel predictive models in the field of biomedical diagnosis. In this context, the digitalization of clinical exams and medical records is becoming essential to collect heterogeneous information. Analysis of these data by means of big data technologies will allow a more in depth understanding of the mechanisms leading to diseases, and contextually it will facilitate the development of novel diagnostics and personalized therapeutics. The recent application of big data technologies in the medical fields will offer new opportunities to integrate enormous amount of medical and clinical information from population studies. Therefore, it is essential to devise new strategies aimed at storing and accessing the data in a standardized way. Moreover, it is important to provide suitable methods to manage these heterogeneous data.\n\nMethods \n\nIn this work, we present a new information technology infrastructure devised to efficiently manage huge amounts of heterogeneous data for disease prevention and precision medicine. A test set based on data produced by a clinical and diagnostic laboratory has been built to set up the infrastructure. When working with clinical data is essential to ensure the confidentiality of sensitive patient data. Therefore, the set up phase has been carried out using "anonymous data". To this end, specific techniques have been adopted with the aim to ensure a high level of privacy in the correlation of the medical records with important secondary information (e.g., date of birth, place of residence). It should be noted that the rigidity of relational databases does not lend to the nature of these data. In our opinion, better results can be obtained using non-relational (NoSQL) databases. Starting from these considerations, the infrastructure has been developed on a NoSQL database with the aim to combine scalability and flexibility performances. In particular, MongoDB [1] has been used as it fits better to manage different types of data on large scale. In doing so, the infrastructure is able to provide an optimized management of huge amounts of heterogeneous data, while ensuring high speed of analysis.\n\nResults\n\nThe presented infrastructure exploits big data technologies in order to overcome the limitations of relational databases when working with large and heterogeneous data. The infrastructure implements a set of interface procedures aimed at preparing the metadata for importing data in a NOSQL DB.\n\nAbstract truncated at 3,000 characters - the full version is available in the pdf file', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2186/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Statistics', 'Computational Science'], [u'Institute for Biomedical Technologies, National Research Council']]
[u'A computational study to identify potential inhibitors for human chymase from natural and/or biogenic sources', ['Amit Dubey', 'Anna Marabotti', 'Pramod W Ramteke', 'Angelo Facchiano'], u'2016-06-29', u'Motivation. The human chymase (EC 3.4.21.39) is a hydrolase abundant in secretory granules of mast cells, responsible for the synthesis of angiotensin II from its precursor. Moreover, it is also responsible for the conversion of transforming growth factor-\u03b2 (TGF-\u03b2) and matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-9 precursors to their active forms. Since a link between heart failure and chymase has been proved, specific chymase inhibitors are actively searched to develop new therapeutic treatments for cardiovascular diseases, considering also that chymase has no enzymatic activity in normal tissues. Therefore, specific chymase inhibitors may have no effects on any other target in healthy states. The use of natural products has been an integral part of the treatment of different diseases throughout the world since past centuries. Many plants with potential therapeutic activity were widely used as natural medicines with negligible undesired effects. Therefore, the search for new active compounds from natural sources is gaining interest in the scientific community, and the application of novel approaches to an old science could result in the discovery of valuable compounds useful to develop innovative drugs. We present here our search for novel inhibitors of chymase enzyme from natural sources or inspired by nature, using a computational approach that allowed us to screen databases of compounds and to predict which molecules can be able to bind to chymase with a good affinity and selectivity against other serine proteases. Methods. The crystal structure of human chymase complexed to a known inhibitor, available in the Protein Data Bank (PDB code 1T31), was selected for the development of ten structure-based pharmacophore models, using the protocol available in Discovery Studio. After a validation step, the best pharmacophore was used to screen a special subset of ZINC database (ZINC Biogenic compounds) containing more than 120,000 nature-inspired compounds. After identification of the best potential compounds matching the pharmacophore features, and further filtering strategies, few potential ZINC compounds were selected for further steps. In parallel, selected compounds from plants were identified as potential candidates, also on the basis of their correspondence to the pharmacophore features obtained in the previous step. The 3D structures of all these selected compounds, as well as those of the known co-crystallized chymase inhibitor and of other known inhibitors used as reference molecules, were retrieved from ZINC and/or PubChem databases and were docked in the active site of human chymase. Their predicted binding affinities and their interactions with the enzyme were then compared. Finally, all these molecules were docked into the active sites of other human serine proteases (kallikrein, elastase and tryptase), whose 3D structures were selected ...\nAbstract truncated at 3,000 characters - the full version is available in the pdf file', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2185/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Drugs and Devices'], [u'Institute of Food Science, National Research Council', u'Sam Higginbottom Institute of Agriculture, Technology and Sciences, Jacob School of Biotechnology and Bioengineering', u'Department of Chemistry and Biology "Adolfo Zambelli", University of Salerno']]
[u'Introduction of seasonality concept in PSF algorithm to improve univariate time series predictions', ['Neeraj Bokde', 'Aditya Gupta', 'Kishore Kulat'], u'2016-06-29', u'This paper proposed a novel modification in Pattern Sequence based Forecasting (PSF) algorithm, named as Seasonal PSF. The proposed modification in PSF algorithm is done with addition of seasonality concept, such that the longer univariate time series database with combination of many sequence patterns and outliers can be converted into more relevant database in accordance with data under test of predictions. In this paper, seasonal PSF is examined on electricity load database for two years, provided by EUNITE network. The comparative analysis consists of two methodologies, multiple steps prediction and one step ahead forecasting. This analysis conclude that, seasonality based decomposition of database leads to much better performance of seasonal PSF over original PSF and benchmarked methods for univariate predictions like ARIMA and SARIMA. It is found that the maximum accuracy is achieved in minimum computational delay with Seasonal PSF. These comparisons are performed with RMSE, MAE and MAPE as error performance metrics.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2184/', ['Artificial Intelligence', 'Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Data Science'], [u'Department of Electronics and Communication, Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology, India']]
[u'Structural states of a RNA aptamer, molecular dynamics simulation study', ['Ida Autiero', 'Luigi Vitagliano', 'Roberto Improta', 'Menotti - Ruvo'], u'2016-06-29', u'Motivation\n\nRNA, which adopts a wide range of secondary structures is involved in several kind of chemical interactions and shows a notable structural plasticity. Due to remarkable chemical properties and an important physiological role of RNAs, there is a growing interest in development of RNA-based drugs and ligands of clinical relevance. However, RNAs structural and dynamic features as well as the main RNA-protein recognition effects remain largely unaddressed. We have studied the conformational behaviour and the dynamic of two different structural arrangements of an aptamer binding the bacillus anthracis ribosomal protein S8. This RNA aptamer has experimentally shown two different topologies in free state and in protein-bound state, although sequences differ for just few residues beyond the common internal loop. The role of the interacting protein on the RNA folding, stabilizing or inducing a particular conformation will be discussed.\n\nMethods\n\nThree molecular dynamic simulations of 300 ns each have been performed starting from three distinct aptamer structures: i) the aptamer free-state, using a representative model of a NMR ensemble of structures (pdb 2lun); ii) a similar aptamer bound to its target protein (4pdb) iii); an aptamer model built using the sequence of the RNA in the free state but with the structural arrangement of the bound-state to investigate a possible influence of the sequence on the RNA folding. All the systems under investigations were solvated in a truncated octahedral water box using explicit water models, with a least a 1.1 \xc5 distance to the border, using Na+ counter-ions to neutralize. 6 steps of heating simulation from 50 K to 300K were carried out before to perform the final MD run of 300 ns in NPT conditions without restrains. The trajectories were analysed using the GROMACS utilities and X3DNA program.\n\nResults\n\nOur data show that both bound-state RNA arrangements are structurally stable, holding all the main interactions since the beginning of the simulations. The free-state RNA is the system with the largest flexibility, reaching an equilibrium after 40 ns of simulation. Although the NMR structure appears less rigid, during the total run it never matches the arrangement of the bound state. Definitely, within our time scale, a convergence of the free state with the bound-state trajectories has never been observed and the two different arrangements show differences in flexibility. Preliminary data suggest a significantly different behaviour of the free- and bound-state structures supporting a preminent role of the interacting partner protein on the RNA overall folding to induce a particular stable structural arrangement.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2183/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Institute of Biostructures and Bioimaging, National Research Council']]
[u'The mass, metabolism and length explanation can simultaneously calculate an animal\u2019s mass and metabolic rate from its characteristic length', ['Charles C Frasier'], u'2016-06-29', u'It is shown that the mass, metabolism and length explanation (MMLE) can simultaneously compute an animal\u2019s body mass and BMR given its characteristic length using data for humans.\nMMLE was advanced in 1984 to explain the relationship between metabolic rate and body mass for birds and mammals. It was modernized in 2015 by explicitly treating dynamic similarity of mammals\u2019 skeletal musculature and revising the treatment of BMR. Using two primary equations MMLE deterministically computes the absolute value of Basal Metabolic Rate (BMR) and body mass for individual animals as functions of an individual animal\u2019s characteristic length and sturdiness factor. The characteristic length is a measureable skeletal length associated with an animal\u2019s means of propulsion. The sturdiness factor expresses how sturdy or gracile an animal is. Eight other parameters occur in the equations that vary little among animals in the same phylogenetic group. A mass and length data set with 575 entries from the orders Rodentia, Chiroptera, Artiodactyla, Carnivora, Perissodactyla and Proboscidea and a BMR and mass data set with 436 entries from the orders Rodentia, Chiroptera, Artiodactyla and Carnivora were used to estimate values for the parameters occurring in the equations. With the estimated values MMLE can exactly compute every BMR and mass datum from the BMR and mass data set. Furthermore, MMLE can exactly compute every body mass datum from the mass and length data set. Since there is not a data set that simultaneously reports body mass, BMR and characteristic length for individual animals from the mammal orders that were analyzed it could not be determined whether or not MMLE could simultaneously compute both an animal\u2019s BMR and body mass given its characteristic length.\nThere are large data sets that report body mass, BMR and height for humans. A human\u2019s characteristic length can be estimated from height. In this paper human data categorized by sex, age and body mass index (BMI) are used to show that MMLE can indeed simultaneously compute a human\u2019s body mass and BMR given his or her characteristic length.\nThe MMLE body mass equation is modified to explicitly address body fat because it appears that humans are fatter than other running/walking placental mammals. Differences in body fat seem to account for body mass and BMR sexual dimorphism among humans. The impact on BMR of the large and metabolically expensive human brain is addressed. Also mitochondria capability decline with age is addressed.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2182/', ['Mathematical Biology', 'Anatomy and Physiology', 'Metabolic Sciences'], [u'Organizationally unaffiliated']]
[u'Birds of La Plata Island, Machalilla National Park, Ecuador', ['Diego F Cisneros-Heredia'], u'2016-06-29', u'La Plata Island, Machalilla National Park, is located 30 km off the Ecuadorian coast. In June 2000, I surveyed the avifauna of La Plata Island. In total I observed 57 species of birds (25 families). At least 17 species are known to breed on the island; in fact, for mainland Ecuador, Waved Albatross Phoebastria irrorata, Red-billed Tropicbird Phaethon aethereus, Nazca Booby Sula granti, and Red-footed Booby Sula sula only breed in La Plata. Long-tailed Mockinbird subspecies Mimus longicaudatus platensis is the only endemic bird taxon of the island. House Sparrow Passer domesticus is the only non-native species of the island. Brown Booby Sula leucogaster, Ecuadorian Ground-Dove Columbina buckleyi, Little Woodstar Chaetocercus bombus and Yellow-bellied Elaenia Elaenia flavogaster are reported for the first time on the island. Isla de La Plata maintains an important biodiversity, and it is necessary to implement conservation, management and tourism plans on a sustainable way along with long-term monitoring studies of the fauna and flora.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2181/', ['Biodiversity', 'Zoology'], [u'Colegio de Ciencias Biol\xf3gicas y Ambientales COCIBA, Laboratorio de Zoolog\xeda Terrestre, Universidad San Francisco de Quito', u'Aves y Conservaci\xf3n / BirdLife Ecuador']]
[u'Taxonomy, distribution and conservation of the Glassfrogs (Amphibia, Anura, Centrolenidae) of Ecuador', ['Diego F Cisneros-Heredia', 'Roy W. McDiarmid'], u'2016-06-29', u'The Glassfrogs (Centrolenidae) are an apparently monophyletic group of Neotropical anurans that includes 136 described species. The phylogenetic relationships of the family with other clades are still poorly understood and at the moment the family can be defined only by shared apomorphies. The current generic concepts that recognize Centrolene, Cochranella and Hyalinobatrachium do not seem to reflect the true evolutive relationships of the family. Study of ca. 500 specimens from different localities across Central and South America shows the existence of new undescribed species, taxonomic and nomenclatural confusions, and the need to review and reconsider the intra and intergeneric and specific relationships of the Centrolenidae. We restrict the name Hyalinobatrachium petersi for a taxon from the lowlands of the Ecuadorian Choco and report the first records of Centrolene lemniscatum and Hyalinobatrachum ruedai from Ecuador. The discovery of a new species of the group of Centrolene gorzulai on the eastern Andean slopes of Ecuador raises questions about the synapomorphies assigned to each genus and about the biogeography of the family. New data on internal and external morphology and behavior allow reconsidering the classification of intrageneric groups of Centrolene and Cochranella and re-evaluating the taxonomic usefulness of certain characters (e.g., shape/color of liver, humeral spine, color of bones). Our analysis suggests the need to divide the species of southeastern Brazil into a different genus, restricting Hyalionobatrachium to the fleischmanni group; the situation is still confused for the pulveratum group and conservatively is kept within the genus Hyalinobatrachium until additional morphological and phylogenetic analysis. At least five species of glass frogs of Ecuador are critically endangered; some considerations on the state of conservation of Centrolenidae in the country are presented.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2180/', ['Biodiversity', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Colegio de Ciencias Biol\xf3gicas y Ambientales COCIBA, Laboratorio de Zoolog\xeda Terrestre, Universidad San Francisco de Quito', u'USGS Patuxent Wildlife Research Center']]
