[u'Haplotype distribution and connectivity of the white sea urchin Tripneustes ventricosus across the Brazilian biogeographic province', ['Wander O Godinho', 'Rodrigo Maggioni', 'Ana L Lacerda', 'Tito M C Lotufo'], u'2016-10-16', u'Sea urchins play important roles in marine ecosystems as key herbivores and some species have wide geographic range. The Atlantic white sea urchin Tripneustes ventricosus is abundant in many rock reefs of the eastern and western Atlantic, and may be found in high densities in Atolls and Archipelagos. Despite the importance of sea urchins in insular ecosystems, there is no study evaluating the genetic structure and the origin of the white sea urchin in isolated ecosystems. Such information is crucial to understand the connectivity and genetic diversity of these populations from the tropical Atlantic provinces. To evaluate the origin of the white sea urchin in Fernando de Noronha Archipelago and the genetic features of this population, we conducted studies on the population structure of the white sea urchin using mitochondrial DNA (COI), in two regions within the Brazilian biogeographic province and compared with other regions in the Atlantic. The white sea urchin from Fernando de Noronha was found to be genetically distinct, with FST ranging from 0.3 to 0.9 from other populations in Atlantic. The sharing of haplotypes between the Brazilian coast and the archipelago suggests that insular species derived from the Brazilian coast, rather than the East Atlantic. Moreover, all other Atlantic populations were genetically isolated, with low genetic diversity being a common characteristic among them (ranging from 0.0011 to 0.0022). The low connectivity found within populations might be related to the presence of soft barriers among the Brazilian biogeographic province. The low nucleotide diversity may also suggest that T. ventricosus may have undergone bottleneck processes at some stage of their evolution. This study has important implications on the geographic distribution, population structure and gene flow of the white sea urchin among the Atlantic regions. Further studies should evaluate the biological and ecological aspects of the species in both insular and continental marine ecosystems.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2529/', ['Biogeography', 'Ecology', 'Genetics', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Enviromentor Education & Science', u'Instituto de Ci\xeancias do Mar - LABOMAR, Universidade Federal do Cear\xe1', u'Instituto de Oceanografia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande']]
[u'A comparison of models for interval-censored plant cover data, with applications to monitoring schemes', ['Oliver L Pescott', 'Mark Jitlal', 'Simon M Smart', 'Kevin J Walker', 'David B Roy', 'Stephen N Freeman'], u'2016-10-16', u'Plant cover data collected by monitoring schemes are often expressed on interval-censored scales to reduce field effort. Existing statistical approaches to such data may not make full use of available information, or may both induce bias and assume more precision than may be warranted, e.g. by analysing mid-points and disregarding the spread of observations within a class.\nWe compare four approaches to modelling such data: two established methods (the proportional odds model and generalised linear mixed models) and two novel methods that explicitly accommodate the interval-censored nature of much data on plant cover. Of the latter, the first is a maximum likelihood (ML) approach that incorporates knowledge of the metric interval in which each datum lies. The second uses a Bayesian approach to incorporate interval-censoring and random effects to account for variation in annual changes between sites. All four methods are compared using data simulated with parameter values derived from analysis of a long-term monitoring dataset.\nWe demonstrate that model choice can influence the quality of statistical inference, particularly between models that make simplifications for convenience of fitting, and those which combine realistic distributional assumptions with accommodation of imprecise observations. A comparison of three of the methods demonstrated that all provide good accuracy and increasing precision over time. A comparison of power across the three frequentist approaches showed higher power for the novel ML approach. This is likely to be due to this non-hierarchical method underestimating residual variance. The Bayesian model is not directly comparable, but the measure of belief in a negative trend considered here was generally high, providing gradual increases in the believability of a decline with increasing time, number of sites, initial abundance, and larger effect sizes.\nOur results suggest that the use of hierarchical models for plant monitoring schemes, conveniently applied in a Bayesian context, will help to bring greater realism and sensitivity to assessments of population change, and allow the use of more of the underlying information contained within cover data. Interval-censored methods will also allow for the integration of long-term plant datasets collected according to different cover scales, as well as presence/absence data.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2532/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Plant Science', 'Statistics'], [u'Centre for Ecology & Hydrology Wallingford', u'Centre for Ecology & Hydrology Lancaster', u'Botanical Society of Britain & Ireland']]
[u'Identifying zooplankton community changes between shallow and upper-mesophotic reefs on the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef, Caribbean', ['Dominic A Andradi-Brown', 'Catherine Head', 'Dan A Exton', 'Christina L Hunt', 'Alicia Hendrix', 'Erika Gress', 'Alex D Rogers'], u'2016-10-16', u'Mesophotic coral ecosystems (MCEs, reefs 30 -150m) are understudied, yet the limited research conducted has been biased towards large sessile taxa, such as scleractinian corals and sponges, or mobile taxa such as fish. Here we investigate zooplankton communities on shallow reefs and MCEs around Utila, on the southern Mesoamerican Barrier Reef using planktonic light traps. Zooplankton samples were sorted into broad taxonomic groups. Our results indicate similar taxonomic zooplankton richness and overall biomass between shallow reefs and MCEs, but that abundance of larger bodied (>2 mm) zooplanktonic groups, including decapod crab zoea, mysid shrimps and peracarid crustaceans was higher on MCEs than shallow reefs. Our findings highlight the important of considering zooplankton when identifying broader reef community shifts across the shallow reef to MCE depth gradient.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2531/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Zoology, University of Oxford', u'Operation Wallacea']]
[u'The nematode homologue of Mediator complex subunit 28, F28F8.5, is a critical regulator of C. elegans development', ['Marketa Kostrouchova', 'David Kostrouch', 'Ahmed A Chughtai', 'Filip Kassak', 'Jan P. Novotny', 'Veronika Kostrouchova', 'Ales Benda', 'Michael W. Krause', 'Vladimir Saudek', 'Marta Kostrouchova', 'Zdenek Kostrouch'], u'2016-10-16', u'The evolutionarily conserved Mediator complex is a critical player in regulating transcription. Comprised of approximately two dozen proteins, Mediator integrates diverse regulatory signals through direct protein-protein interactions that, in turn, modulate the influence of Mediator on RNA Polymerase II activity. One Mediator subunit, MED28, is known to interact with cytoplasmic structural proteins, providing a potential direct link between cytoplasmic dynamics and the control of gene transcription. Although identified in many animals and plants, MED28 is not present in yeast; no bona fide MED28 has been described previously in C. elegans. Here, we identify bioinformatically F28F8.5, an uncharacterized predicted protein, as the nematode homologue of MED28. As in other metazoa, F28F8.5 has dual nuclear and cytoplasmic localization and plays critical roles in the regulation of development. F28F8.5 is a vital gene and its null mutants have severely malformed gonads and do not reproduce. Our results indicate that F28F8.5 is a homologue of MED28 and suggest that the potential to link cytoplasmic and nuclear events is conserved between MED28 vertebrate and nematode homologues.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2530/', ['Cell Biology', 'Developmental Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Biocev, First Faculty of Medicine, Charles University', u'Department of Pathology, Third Faculty of Medicine, Charles University', u'Biocev, First Faculty of Medicine, Charles University in Prague', u'Imaging Methods Core Facility, BIOCEV, Faculty of Science, Charles University', u'Laboratory of Molecular Biology, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health', u'Metabolic Research Laboratories, Wellcome Trust-Medical Research Council Institute of Metabolic Science, University of Cambridge']]
[u'Containerization and wrapping of a mass spectra prediction workflow', ['Jens Kruger', 'Oliver Kohlbacher'], u'2016-10-16', u'Practical experiences are reported about implementing a workflow for the prediction of mass spectra. QCEIMS is used to simulate the fragmentation trajectories consequently leading to predicted mass spectra for small molecules, such as metabolites. The individual calculations are embedded into UNICORE workflow nodes using Docker containerization for the applications themselves. Challenges, caveats, but also advantages are discussed, providing guidance for the deployment of a scientific protocol on high performance computing resources.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2528/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Scientific Computing and Simulation'], [u'Applied Bioinformatics, University of T\xfcbingen', u'Quantitative Biology Center (QBiC), University of T\xfcbingen', u'Biomolecular Interactions, Max Planck Institute for Developmental Biology']]
[u'Dynamics of resource allocation in Biological Systems II: On cancer cell metabolism', ['Imadol V Jeff-Eke'], u'2016-10-16', u'Here we shall apply the approach presented in the paper Dynamics of resource allocation in biological systems in considering resource allocation in cancer cell metabolism, specifically, aerobic glycolysis (Warburg effect). Aerobic glycolysis, the metabolic phenomenon of cells utilizing glucose fermentation to lactate even under conditions of ample oxygen availability. We shall consider resource reallocations between processes of two hypothetical cells: a cancer cell and a normal cell. Specifically, we consider reallocation of resources between cancer-related processes of a cancer cell, normal processes of same cancer cell, and processes of a normal cell in attempts to satisfy the high resource requirements for cancer-related processes. In doing this, we draw inferences from the initial work and state hypotheses as pertains to cancer cell metabolism. From this hypotheses, we shall attempt explanation of Aerobic glycolysis. We end by considering genomic instability as a derivation of cancer cell metabolism.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2533/', ['Biochemistry', 'Cell Biology', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Oncology'], [u'Morehouse School of Medicine']]
[u'High-throughput sequencing identifies distinct fecal and mucosal gut microbiota correlating with different mucosal proteins', ['Li-na Dong', 'Jun-ping Wang', 'Ping Liu', 'Yun-feng Yang', 'Jing Feng', 'Yi Han'], u'2016-10-16', u'The intestinal microbiota is associated with human health. The luminal microbiota (LM) and mucosa-associated microbiota (MAM) are distinct ecosystems with different metabolic and immunological functions. Several studies have examined the correlations between the gut microbiota and clinical indices, but few have investigated the relationships between the microbiota and mucosal proteins. We characterized the intestinal LM and MAM in Chinese people and examined the association between these communities and the expression of mucosal proteins. Fresh fecal samples and distal colonic mucosal biopsies were collected from 32 subjects before (fecal) and during (mucosal) flexible sigmoidoscopy. We used high-throughput sequencing targeting the 16SrRNA gene V3\u2013V4 region to analyze the samples and reverse transcription(RT)\u2013PCR to detect the expression of colonic proteins BDNF, ZO1, TLR2, TLR4, AQP3, and AQP8. Differences in the stool and mucosal microbiota were identified and a correlation network analysis performed. The LM and MAM populations differed signi\ufb01cantly. In LM, the microbiota composition correlated significantly positively with host age, and Firmicutes (phylum) correlated positively with body mass index (BMI), but inversely with ZO1.At the genus level, systemic indices, such as age, BMI, and BDNF, correlated predominantly with LM, whereas systemic and local indices, such as TLR2, correlated with both MAM and LM. ZO1 and TLR4 which usually exert a local effect, mainly correlated with MAM. Different bacteria were associated with the expression of different proteins. Our data suggest that The microbial compositions of LM and MAM differed. Different gut bacteria may play different roles by regulating the expression of different proteins.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2526/', ['Genomics', 'Microbiology', 'Gastroenterology and Hepatology'], [u'Central Laboratory, Shanxi Provincial People\u2019s Hospital, Affiliate of Shanxi Medical University', u'Department of Gastroenterology, Shanxi Provincial People\u2019s Hospital, Affiliate of Shanxi Medical University', u'Department of Gynaecology, Shanxi Provincial People\u2019s Hospital, Affiliate of Shanxi Medical University']]
[u'Endocrine disruption: Where are we now: Tier 2 testing', ['Mary Ann Ottinger', 'Kevin Flynn', 'Sigmund J Degitz', 'Tim Verslycke', 'Hank Krueger', 'Leslie W Touart', 'Allen Olmstead', 'Anne Goumelon'], u'2016-10-16', u'The focus of this session was on the proposed USEPA Endocrine Disruption Screening Program (EDSP) Tier 2 testing protocols. Tier 2 tests have been developed to evaluate the potential impacts of endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs) over the life cycle across organisms representing vertebrate and invertebrate classes. Key aspects of these Tier 2 testing protocols rely on selecting appropriate measurement end points to reveal differential sensitivity and adverse impacts across an organism\u2019s life stages. To this end, certain Tier 2 tests utilize a multigenerational protocol, which detect both short- and long-term effects. However, multigenerational testing protocols can be time consuming and costly. As such, other testing protocols have also been considered, including partial life-cycle and extended one-generation tests. Regardless of the specifics of the multigenerational protocol, it is critical to identify key measurement end points that are responsive, reliable, and repeatable indicators of exposure to endocrine disrupting chemicals; these measures should also provide information to enable initial assessments of risk translated from individual to potential population level effects across a variety of living organisms. Presentations in Session three of the Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry (SETAC) North America Focused Topic Meeting: Endocrine Disruption (February 4 \u2013 6, 2014) focused on the current state of the science for EPA EDSP Tier 2 testing. Presentations in this session considered the strengths and weaknesses of the Tier 2 assays across several classes of organisms, and provided an industry perspective on Tier 2 testing. The interactive panel discussion provided an interesting perspective that balanced regulatory needs for reliable testing protocols that are highly repeatable and utilize consistent indices of exposure and adverse effect.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2527/', ['Ecosystem Science', 'Toxicology'], [u'Department of Biology and Biochemistry, University of Houston', u'USEPA NHEERL MED', u'MED, USEPA', u'Gradient', u'Wildlife International Ltd.', u'Equiparent Consulting', u'Bayer CropScience', u'Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development']]
[u'nanoHUB: Experiences and insights on care and feeding of a successful, engaged science gateway community', ['Lynn Zentner', 'Gerhard Klimeck'], u'2016-10-16', u'Established in 2002, nanoHUB.org continues to attract a large community of users for computational tools and learning materials related to nanotechnology [1, 2]. Over the last 12 months, nanoHUB has engaged over 1.4 million visitors and 13,000 simulation users with over 5,000 items of content, making it a premier example of an established science gateway. The nanoHUB team tracks references to nanoHUB in the scientific literature and have found nearly 1,600 vetted citations to nanoHUB, with over 19,000 secondary citations to the primary papers, supporting the concept that nanoHUB enables quality research. nanoHUB is also used extensively for both informal and formal education [3,4], with automatic algorithms detecting use in 1,501 classrooms reaching nearly 30,000 students. During 14 years of operation, the nanoHUB team has had an opportunity to study the behaviors of its user base, evaluate mechanisms for success, and learn when and how to make adjustments to better serve the community and stakeholders. We have developed a set of success criteria for a science gateway such as nanoHUB, for attracting and growing an active community of users. Outstanding science content is necessary and that content must continue to expand or the gateway and community will grow stagnant. A large challenge is to incentivize a community to not only use the site, but more importantly, to contribute [5,6]. There is often a recruitment and conversion process that involves, first, attracting users, giving them reason to stay, use, and share increasingly complex content, and then go on to become content authors themselves. This process requires a good understanding of the user community and its needs as well as an active outreach program, led by a user-oriented content steward with a technical background sufficient to understand the work and needs of the community. A reliable infrastructure is a critical key to maintaining an active, participatory community. Using underlying HUBzero\xae technology, nanoHUB is able to leverage infrastructure developments from across a wide variety of hubs, and by utilizing platform support from the HUBzero team, access development and operational expertise from a team of 25 professionals that one scientific project would be hard-pressed to support on its own. nanoHUB has found that open assessment and presentation of stats and impact metrics not only inform development and outreach activities but also incentivize users and provide transparency to the scientific community at large.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2525/', ['Network Science and Online Social Networks', 'Scientific Computing and Simulation'], [u'Network for Computational Nanotechnology, Purdue University']]
