[u'TwitterNews: Real time event detection from the Twitter data stream', ['Mahmud Hasan', 'Mehmet A Orgun', 'Rolf Schwitter'], u'2016-07-18', u'Research in event detection from the Twitter streaming data has been gaining momentum in the last couple of years. Although such data is noisy and often contains misleading information, Twitter can be a rich source of information if harnessed properly. In this paper, we propose a scalable event detection system,  TwitterNews, to detect and track newsworthy events in real time from Twitter. TwitterNews provides a novel approach, by combining random indexing based term vector model with locality sensitive hashing, that aids in performing incremental clustering of tweets related to various events within a fixed time. TwitterNews also incorporates an effective strategy to deal with the cluster fragmentation issue prevalent in incremental clustering. The set of candidate events generated by TwitterNews are then filtered, to report the newsworthy events along with an automatically selected representative tweet from each event cluster. Finally, we evaluate the effectiveness of  TwitterNews, in terms of the recall and the precision, using a publicly available corpus.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2297/', ['Artificial Intelligence', 'Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Social Computing', 'World Wide Web and Web Science'], [u'Department of Computing, Macquarie University']]
[u'Conserved domain and structure analysis of a putative polyphosphate kinase from Buruli ulcer causing bacterium', ['Zarrin Basharat'], u'2016-07-18', u'With increasing sophistication of instruments and techniques, in addition to the increment in intricacies, girth and complexities of the problems being addressed, simple methods (especially computational biology techniques) are being overlooked, replaced or phased out. One such technique on the twilight of survival is simple computational analysis of protein sequence i.e. property determination, homology modeling etc. Manuscripts reporting solely such type of analysis face upfront rejection, although some exceptions might exist. Only some predatory or beginner journals might accept such publications. This continues despite the fact that simple, cost effective, quick computational analysis of protein sequence has its merits and paves way for further research. This report is basically an attempt to keep the dying venture of protein structure modeling alive.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2296/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Biophysics', 'Computational Biology', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Environmental Sciences, Fatima Jinnah Women University']]
[u'S-phase kinase-associated protein 2 positively controls mitotic arrest deficient 2 in lung cancer cells', ['Tonghai Huang', 'Lin Yang', 'Guangsuo Wang', 'Guanggui Ding', 'Bin Peng', 'Yuxin Wen', 'Zheng Wang'], u'2016-07-18', u'Background. Mitotic arrest deficient 2 (Mad2) is a key component of spindle assembly checkpoint and overexpressed in human lung cancers, but the mechanism of the deregulation of Mad2 in lung cancer is largely unknown. We aim to investigate the regulation of Mad2 by S-phase kinase-associated protein 2 (Skp2) in human lung cancer cells.\nMethods. Human lung cancer A549 and NCI-H1975 cells were transfected with MAD2 and SKP2 siRNAs or plasmids to silence or overexpress MAD2 and SKP2. Flavopiridol and HLM006474 were used to inhibit cyclin dependent kinases (CDKs) and E2F1, respectively. mRNA and protein levels were determined by real-time PCR and Western blot, respectively. Cell cycle progression was assayed by flow cytometery.\nResults. Knockdown of Skp2 by siRNA decreased Mad2 mRNA and protein levels in A549 and NCI-H1299 cells, accompanied with upregulation of p27 but decrease of the phosphorylation of retinoblastoma (Rb). In contrast, ectopic overexpression of Skp2 increased Mad2 mRNA and protein levels and phosphorylation of Rb, while decreased p27. Pharmacological inhibition of CDK1/2 by flavopiridol or E2F1 with HLM006474 led to downregulation of Mad2 expression, and prevented the increase of Mad2 expression by Skp2. Accordingly, silencing of either Mad2 or Skp2 impaired the mitosis arrest in response to nocadazole.\nConclusion. SKP2 positively regulates the gene expression of MAD2 through p27-CDKs-E2F1 signaling pathway, suggesting that deregulation of Skp2 may lead to upregulation of Mad2 via enhancing the activity of CDKs in human lung cancers. Our findings may provide an explanation of the simultaneous upregulation of MAD2 and SKP2 in lung cancer and potential targets for the development of molecular targeted therapy for lung cancers.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2298/', ['Cell Biology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Oncology'], [u'Department of Thoracic Surgery, Shenzhen People\u2019s Hospital']]
[u'Multiple, independent colonizations of the Hawaiian Archipelago by the family Dolichopodidae (Diptera)', ['Kari Roesch Goodman', 'Neal Evenhuis', 'Pavla Bartosova-Sojkova', "Patrick Michael O'Grady"], u'2016-07-18', u'The family Dolichopodidae forms two of the four largest evolutionary radiations in the Hawaiian Islands across all flies: Campsicnemus (183 spp) and the Eurynogaster complex (66 spp). They also include a small radiation of Conchopus (6 spp). A handful of other dolichopodid species are native to the islands in singleton lineages or small radiations. This study provides a phylogenetic perspective on the colonization history of the dolichopodid fauna in the islands.  We generated a multi gene data set including representatives from 11 of the 14 endemic Hawaiian dolichopodid genera to examine the history of colonization to the islands, and analyzed it using Bayesian and maximum likelihood phylogenetic methods. We used a subset of the data that included Conchopus and the eight genera comprising the Eurynogaster complex to estimate the first phylogenetic hypothesis for these endemic groups, then used Beast to estimate their age of arrival to the archipelago. The Eurynogaster complex, Campsicnemus and Conchopus are clearly the result of independent colonizations. The results strongly support the Eurynogaster complex as a monophyletic group, and also supports the monophyly of 4 of the 8 described genera within the complex (Adachia, Arciellia, Uropachys and Eurynogaster). Members of the family Dolichopodidae have been dispersing over vast distances to colonize the Hawaiian Archipelago for millions of years, leading to multiple independent evolutionary diversification events. The Eurynogaster complex arrived in the Hawaiian Archipelago 11.8 Ma, well before the arrival of Campsicnemus (4.5 Ma), and the even more recent Conchopus (1.8 Ma). Data presented here demonstrate that the Hawaiian Dolichopodidae both disperse and diversify easily, a rare combination that lays the groundwork for field studies on the reproductive isolating mechanisms and ecological partitioning of this group.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2299/', ['Entomology', 'Evolutionary Studies'], [u'Department of Environmental Science, Policy and Management, University of California, Berkeley', u'Department of Natural Sciences, Bernice P. Bishop Museum', u'Institute of Parasitology, Biology Centre of the Czech Academy of Sciences']]
[u'Fetus-in-fetu in an 8-month-old girl', ['Bei Bei Zhao', 'Yu Zuo Bai'], u'2016-07-18', u'Fetus in fetu (FIF) is a very rare congenital malformation with an incidence of 1/500,000 live births. These children are often hospitalized because of vomiting, abdominal distension or abdominal mass found by their parents. The most common position for the parasitic fetus is the retroperitoneum but other position such as the scrotal sac, cranial cavity, sacrococcygeal region, back , oral cavity has been reported. FIF is often misdiagnosed as a mature teratoma. Ultrasound, CT, MRI are of great significance in distinguishing between FIF and teratoma. The postoperative pathological examination may reveal axial skeleton which can make a definitive diagnosis of FIF. In this report, we present a case of FIF in an 8-month-old girl.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2295/', ['Pediatrics', 'Surgery and Surgical Specialties'], [u'Department of Pediatric Surgery, Shengjing Hospital']]
[u'Knockout Sudoku, a method for rapidly curating gene disruption collections', ['Isao A Anzai', 'Lev Shaket', 'Oluwakemi Adesina', 'Michael Baym', 'Buz Barstow'], u'2016-07-18', u'Knockout Sudoku is a method for the construction of whole-genome knockout collections for a wide range of microorganisms with as little as 3 weeks of dedicated labor and at a cost of approximately $10,000. The method uses manual 4-dimensional combinatorial pooling, next-generation sequencing and a Bayesian inference algorithm to rapidly process and then accurately annotate the extremely large progenitor transposon insertion mutant collections needed to achieve saturating coverage of complex microbial genomes. Here we present a protocol for the generation, combinatorial pooling and annotation of highly oversampled progenitor collections and their subsequent algorithmically guided condensation and curation into high-quality collections suitable for rapid genetic screening and gene discovery.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2294/', ['Computational Biology', 'Genetics', 'Genomics', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Chemistry, Princeton University', u'Department of Systems Biology, Harvard Medical School']]
