[u'A tutorial on how to use Gradepro GDT Tool for writing reviews', ['Arindam Basu'], u'2016-10-11', u'This is a tutorial on how to use the GRADEPro GDT guidelines development tool for appraisal of articles. The tutorial assumes that the student has little experience of working with Gradepro and walks through in several steps how to use this tool. Grading of evidence is an essential action to be taken by practitioners of evidence based medicine and public health yet the tools are not very intuitive. Grading of evidence puts the focus of evidence appraisal on outcomes. Select outcomes first at most seven outcomes and use this tool to appraise articles and bodies of evidence. In this article, we shall use two articles -- one a primary study, and another, a Cochrane Review to critically appraise a body of evidence focused on health outcomes. We will then demonstrate that it is possible not only to appraise one outcome and an individual study but also bodies of studies such as that based on a Cochrane Meta analysis. Taking an example of grommet insertion for children with otitis media with effusion, we show the advantage of using a tool for setting up meta analysis and conducting web based analysis of literature data.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2520/', ['Evidence Based Medicine', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'School of Health Sciences, University of Canterbury']]
[u'A microservice-based portal for X-ray transient and variable sources', ["Daniele D'Agostino", 'Luca Roverelli', 'Gabriele Zereik', 'Andrea De Luca', 'Ruben Salvaterra', 'Andrea Belfiore', 'Gianni Lisini', 'Giovanni Novara', 'Andrea Tiengo'], u'2016-10-11', u'Modern soft X-ray observatories can yield unique insights into time domain astrophysics, and a huge amount of information is stored - and largely unexploited - in data archives. Like a treasure-hunt, the EXTraS project is harvesting the hitherto unexplored temporal domain information buried in the serendipitous data collected by the European Photon Imaging Camera (EPIC) instrument onboard the ESA XMM-Newton, in 16 years of observations. Part of this analysis is performed through a dedicated science gateway, the EXTraS portal, whose initial release is the subject of this paper. In particular the focus is on its light software architecture, based on the use of microservices, providing a better resilience and more decoupled development lifecycle with respect to the approaches followed by the most used science gateway toolkits.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2519/', ['Distributed and Parallel Computing', 'Scientific Computing and Simulation'], [u'Institute for Applied Mathematics and Information Technologies \u201cE. Magenes\u201d, National Research Council of Italy', u'Istituto di Astrofisica Spaziale e Fisica Cosmica, National Institute for Astrophysics', u'Institute for Advanced Study', u'Scuola Universitaria Superiore IUSS Pavia', u'Sezione di Pavia, National Institute for Nuclear Physics']]
[u'The relationship between sap flow density and environmental factors in the Yangtze River Delta region', ['Xin Liu', 'Bo Zhang', 'Donald L DeAngelis', 'Jinchi Zhang', 'Jiayao Zhuang', 'Cheng Han', 'Lu Zhai', 'Wenrui Zhao', 'Ling Wang'], u'2016-10-11', u'Transpiration is an important component of the water balance in forest ecosystems. Quercus acutissima and Cunninghamia lanceolata are two important, fast-growing and commercial tree species that have been extensively used for vegetation restoration, water conservation and building artificial forests in the Yangtze River Delta Region of China. The primary objective of this study was to characterize sap \ufb02ow densities of the two species by comparing diurnal, nocturnal and seasonal sap \ufb02ow patterns and their relationships with environmental factors. Sap \ufb02ow densities (Sd) were measured between September 2012 and August 2013 using the commercially-available thermal dissipation probes. Hourly meteorological data were measured in an open \ufb01eld, located 200 m away from the study site. Standard meteorological data were logged hourly at this site, including photosynthetically active radiation (Par), air temperature (Ta), relative air humidity (Rh), vapor pressure deficit (Vpd) and precipitation (P). Soil water content (Swc) data were logged hourly in different layers at Q.acutissima and C.lanceolata forests. Results indicated that the mean Sd in summer was higher than that in spring and autumn, and was lowest in winter. The Sd of Q. acutissima showed distinct diurnal patterns during the growth period (between May and October), and C. lanceolata followed similar sap \ufb02ow patterns in all months except February. Nocturnal sap flow densities (Sdn) were noticeable and both species followed similar patterns during the growth period, in which Q. acutissima followed a power function from April to November and C. lanceolata followed similar patterns in all months except February. Pearson correlation analysis suggested that the sap flow density responded to environmental factors differently among each of the growing stages. The diurnal sap flow density (Sdd) was more sensitive to environmental factors than Sdn. The Sd during the growth period was more sensitive to environmental factors than in the dormant period. Par, Vpd and Ta were significantly correlated with Sdd in the whole year. In the nighttime, the sap flow density was also effected by the Vpd, Ta and Rh. The results of this study can be used to estimate the transpiration of Q. acutissima and C. lanceolata.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2516/', ['Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Plant Science'], [u'Co-Innovation Center for Sustainable Forestry in Southern China, Jiangsu Province Key Laboratory of Soil and Water Conservation and Ecological Restoration, Nanjing Forestry University', u'University of Miami, U.S. Geological Survey, Department of Biology']]
[u'Why to choose Random Forest to predict rare species distribution with few samples in large undersampled areas? Three Asian crane species models provide supporting evidence', ['Chunrong Mi', 'Falk Huettmann', 'Yumin Guo', 'Xuesong Han', 'Lijia Wen'], u'2016-10-11', u'Species distribution models (SDMs) have become an essential tool in ecology, biogeography, evolution, and more recently, in conservation biology. How to generalize species distributions in large undersampled areas, especially with few samples, is a fundamental issue of SDMs. In order to explore this issue, we used the best available presence records for the Hooded Crane (Grus monacha, n=33), White-naped Crane (Grus vipio, n=40), and Black-necked Crane (Grus nigricollis, n=75) in China as three case studies, employing four powerful and commonly used machine learning algorithms to map the breeding distributions of the three species: TreeNet (Stochastic Gradient Boosting, Boosted Regression Tree Model), Random Forest, CART (Classification and Regression Tree) and Maxent (Maximum Entropy Models) Besides, we developed an ensemble forecast by averaging predicted probability of above four models results. Commonly-used model performance metrics (Area under ROC (AUC) and true skill statistic (TSS)) were employed to evaluate model accuracy. Latest satellite tracking data and compiled literature data were used as two independent testing datasets to confront model predictions. We found Random Forest demonstrated the best performance for the most assessment method, provided a better model fit to the testing data, and achieved better species range maps for each crane species in undersampled areas. Random Forest has been generally available for more than 20 years, and by now, has been known to perform extremely well in ecological predictions. However, while increasingly on the rise its potential is still widely underused in conservation, (spatial) ecological applications and for inference. Our results show that it informs ecological and biogeographical theories as well as being suitable for conservation applications, specifically when the study area is undersampled. This method helps to save model-selection time and effort, and it allows robust and rapid assessments and decisions for efficient conservation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2517/', ['Biodiversity', 'Biogeography', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'College of Nature Conservation, Beijing Forestry University', u'Key Laboratory of Water Cycle and Related Land Surface Processes, Institute of Geographic Sciences and Natural Resources Research, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences', u'EWHALE Lab, Department of Biology and Wildlife, Institute of Arctic Biology, University of Alaska Fairbanks (UAF)']]
[u'Effects of enhanced hydrological connectivity on Mediterranean salt marsh fish assemblages with emphasis on the endangered Spanish toothcarp (Aphanius iberus)', ['Patricia Prado', 'Carles Alcaraz', 'Lluis Jornet', 'Nuno Alberto Caiola', 'Carles Ibanez'], u'2016-10-11', u'The hydrological connectivity between the salt marsh and the sea was partially restored in a Mediterranean wetland containing isolated ponds resulting from former salt extraction and aquaculture activities. A preliminary assessment provided evidence that ponds farther from the sea hosted very large numbers of the endangered Spanish toothcarp, Aphanius iberus, suggesting that individuals had been trapped and consequently reach unnaturally high densities. In order to achieve both habitat rehabilitation and toothcarp conservation, efforts were made to create a gradient of hydrologically connected areas, including isolated fish reservoirs, semi-isolated, and connected salt marsh\u2013sea areas that could allow migratory movements of fish and provide some protection for A. iberus. The fish community was monitored prior to, and for three years after rehabilitation. Results showed an increase in the number of fish species within semi-isolated areas (Zone A), relative to connected areas (Zone B), while at the assemblage level, structural differences between zones were higher than interannual variability. GLMs evidenced that distance to the sea was the most important variable explaining the local diversity of the fish community after restoration, with occasional influence of other factors such as temperature, and depth. The abundance of A. iberus was consistently higher in semi-isolated areas at greater distances from the sea, but a decline occurred in both zones and in isolated reservoir ponds after restoration efforts, which may be attributable to dispersal to adjacent habitats, and to interannual differences in recruitment success. A negative effect of restoration works on fish population cannot be excluded, but the final outcome of the intervention likely needs a longer period .', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2518/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Aquatic Ecosystems, Institut de Recerca i Tecnologia Agroaliment\xe0ries']]
