[u'Validation and characterization of thirteen microsatellite markers for queen conch, Lobatus gigas', ['Nathan K Truelove', 'Loong Fai Ho', 'Richard F Preziosi', 'Stephen J. Box'], u'2016-10-28', u'We report the development and characterization of 13 novel microsatellite loci for the Caribbean queen conch, Lobatus gigas, an ecologically and commercially important marine gastropod. Paired-end sequencing was carried out on genomic DNA from a single queen conch using half a flow cell lane of an Illumina MiSeq. A total of 48 potentially amplifiable loci containing microsatellites were tested on 45 individuals from the Florida Keys and Bahamas. In total, 13 consistently amplifying and polymorphic microsatellite loci were identified. The number of alleles ranged from 4 to 26 and observed heterozygosities ranged from 0.340 to 1.00. There was no evidence of scoring error, large allele dropout, or evidence of linkage disequilibrium at any locus. Four loci deviated from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium due to moderate levels of null alleles (null allele frequencies ranged from 0.081 to 0.230). Although null alleles were detected at four microsatellite loci, the high levels of polymorphism and moderate null allele frequencies suggest that these 13 novel microsatellite markers will be useful for researchers carrying out conservation genetic studies of L. gigas.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2559/', ['Bioengineering', 'Bioinformatics', 'Conservation Biology', 'Genetics', 'Genomics'], [u'Smithsonian Marine Station, Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History', u'School of Science and the Environment, The Manchester Metropolitan University']]
[u'Migrating bats cross top of Europe', ['Peter E Zingg', 'Fabio Bontadina'], u'2016-10-26', u'Bats have evolved migration to escape unfavourable climatic conditions. However, their migratory flyways and the way how they surmount geographical barriers are still unknown. The Jungfraujoch in the Swiss Alps is a mountain covered in permafrost (3460m ASL), known colloquially as the \u201cTop of Europe\u201d. Using broadband ultrasound recorders, we tested the occurrence of bats at the high altitude research station. In 36 nights, we recorded 268 bat call sequences of 8 species, including all European long-distance migrant bats. Since no feeding buzzes were recorded, we assume the bats were on transit. This is the first evidence to show that migrating bats can fly at unprecedented altitudes to cross the Alps. This feat outperforms the spectacular behaviour of the high altitude foraging bat Tadarida brasiliensis. Our findings shed light on the bats\u2019 migratory flyways and demonstrate that the field of aeroecology can still uncover unexpected perspectives on the behaviour of bats.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2557/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology'], [u'Bat Research, Conservation & Consulting - BRCC, Bernese Oberland', u'SWILD - Urban Ecology and Wildlife Research']]
