[u'Electronic laboratory notebooks in a public-private-partnership', ['Lea A.I. Vaas', 'Gesa Witt', 'Bjorn Windshugel', 'Andrea Bosin', 'Giovanni Serra', 'Adrian Bruengger', 'Mathias Winterhalter', 'Philip Gribbon', 'Cindy J. Levy-Petelinkar', 'Manfred Kohler'], u'2016-07-30', u'This report shares the experience during selection, implementation and maintenance phases of an electronic laboratory notebook (ELN) in a public private partnership project and comment on user feedback. In particular, we address which time constraints for roll-out of an ELN exist in granted projects and which benefits and/or restrictions come with out-of-the-box solutions. We discuss several options for the implementation of support functions and potential advantages of open access solutions. Connected to that, we identified willingness and a vivid culture of data sharing as the major item leading to success or failure of collaborative research activities. The feedback from users turned out to be the only angle for driving technical improvements, but also exhibited high efficiency. Based on these experiences, we describe best practices for future projects on implementation and support of an ELN supporting a diverse, multidisciplinary user group based in academia, NGOs, and/or for-profit corporations located in multiple time zones.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2325/', ['Computer Education', 'Mobile and Ubiquitous Computing', 'Network Science and Online Social Networks', 'Social Computing'], [u'ScreeningPort, Fraunhofer Institute for Molecular Biology and Applied Ecology (IME)', u'Department of Physics, University of Cagliari', u'Research, Basilea Pharmaceutica International AG', u'Department of Life Sciences & Chemistry, Jacobs University Bremen', u'Innovation, Performance and Technology, GlaxoSmithKline']]
[u'Phalangeal joints kinematics during Ostrich (Struthio Camelus) locomotion', ['Rui Zhang', 'Qiaoli Ji', 'Gang Luo', 'Shuliang Xue', 'Songsong Ma', 'Jianqiao Li', 'Lei Ren'], u'2016-07-29', u'The ostrich is a highly cursorial bipedal land animal with a permanently elevated metatarsophalangeal joint supported by only two toes. Although locomotor kinematics in walking and running ostriches have been examined, these studies have been largely limited to above the metatarsophalangeal joint. In this study, kinematic data of all major toe joints were collected from walking to running during stance period in a semi-natural setup with selected cooperative ostriches. Statistical analyses were conducted to investigate the effect of locomotor gait on toe joint kinematics. The MTP3 and MTP4 joints exhibit the largest range of motion whereas the first phalangeal joint of the 4th toe shows the largest motion variability. The interphalangeal joints of the 3rd and 4th toes present very similar motion patterns over stance phases of walking and running. However, the motion patterns of the MTP3 and MTP4 joints and the vertical displacement of the metatarsophalangeal joint are significantly different during running from walking. This is probably because of the biomechanical requirements for the inverted pendulum gait at low speeds and also the bouncing gait at high speeds. Interestingly, the motions of the MTP3 and MTP4 joints are highly synchronised from slow to fast locomotion. This strongly suggests that the 3rd and 4th toes really work as an integrated system with the 3rd toe as the main load bearing element whilst the 4th toe as the complementary load sharing element with a primary role to ensure the lateral stability of the permanently elevated metatarsophalangeal joint.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2324/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Bioengineering', 'Anatomy and Physiology', 'Kinesiology'], [u'Key Laboratory of Bionic Engineering, Ministry of Education, Jilin University', u'School of Mechanical, Aerospace and Civil Engineering, University of Manchester']]
[u'Whole-brain ex-vivo quantitative MRI of the cuprizone mouse', ['Tobias C Wood', 'Camilla Simmons', 'Samuel A Hurley', 'Anthony C Vernon', 'Joel Torres', "Flavio Dell'Acqua", 'Steve C R Williams', 'Diana Cash'], u'2016-07-29', u'Myelin is a critical component of the nervous system and a major contributor to contrast in Magnetic Resonance (MR) images. However the precise contribution of myelination to multiple MR modalities is still under debate. The cuprizone mouse is a well established model of demyelination that has been used in several MR studies, but these have often imaged only a single slice and analysed a small region of interest in the corpus callosum. We imaged and analyzed the whole brain of the cuprizone mouse ex-vivo using high-resolution quantitative MR methods (multi-component DESPOT, Diffusion Tensor Imaging and Tensor Based Morphometry) and found changes in multiple regions, including the corpus callosum, cerebellum, thalamus and hippocampus. However the presence of inflammation, confirmed with histology, presents difficulties in isolating the sensitivity and specificity of these MR methods to demyelination using this model.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2323/', ['Neuroscience', 'Radiology and Medical Imaging', 'Histology'], [u"Department of Neuroimaging, IOPPN, King's College London", u'Centre for Functional MRI of the Brain, University of Oxford', u'Synaptive Medical', u"Cells and Behaviour Unit, Department of Basic and Clinical Neuroscience, IOPPN, King's College London", u"NatBrainLab, Department of Basic and Clinical Neuroscience, IOPPN, King's College London"]]
