[u'The modulatory effect of Moringa oleifera leaf extract on endogenous antioxidant systems and inflammatory markers in acetaminophen-induced nephrotoxic mice model', ['Govindarajan Karthivashan', 'Aminu Umar Kura', 'Palanisamy Arulselvan', 'Norhaszalina Md. Isa', 'Sharida Fakurazi'], u'2016-05-20', u'N-Acetyl-p-Aminophenol (APAP), aka acetaminophen, is the most commonly used over-the counter analgesic and antipyretic medication. However, its overdose leads to both liver and kidney damage. APAP-induced toxicity is considered as one of the primary causes of acute liver failure; numerous scientific reports have focused majorly on APAP hepatotoxicity. Alternatively, not many works approach APAP nephrotoxicity focusing on both its mechanisms of action and therapeutic exploration. Moringa oleifera (MO) is pervasive in nature and is reported to possess surplus amount of nutrients, and is enriched with several bioactive candidates including trace elements that act as curatives for various clinical conditions. In this study, we evaluated the nephro-protective potential of MO leaf extract against APAP nephrotoxicity in male Balb/c mice. A single-dose acute oral toxicity design was implemented in this study. Group 2, 3, 4 and 5 received a toxic dose of APAP (400 mg/kg of bw, i.p) and after an hour, these groups were administered with saline (10 mL/kg), silymarin - positive control (100 mg/kg of bw, i.p), MO leaf extract (100 mg/kg of bw, i.p), and MO leaf extract (200 mg/kg bw, i.p) respectively. Group 1 was administered saline (10 mL/kg) during both the sessions. APAP-treated mice exhibited a significant elevation of serum creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, sodium, potassium and chloride levels. A remarkable depletion of antioxidant enzymes such as SOD, CAT and GSH-Px with elevated MDA levels has been observed in APAP treated kidney tissues. They also exhibited a significant raise in pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-\u03b1, IL-1\u03b2, IL-6) and decreased anti-inflammatory (IL-10) cytokine level in the kidney tissues. Disorganized glomerulus and dilated tubules with inflammatory cell infiltration was clearly observed in the histology of APAP treated mice kidneys. All these pathological changes were reversed in a dose dependent manner after MO leaf extract treatment. Therefore, MO leaf extract has demonstrated some therapeutic effectiveness against APAP-induced nephrotoxicity through enhancement of endogenous antioxidant system and modulatory effect on specific inflammatory cytokines in kidney tissues.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2063/', ['Food Science and Technology', 'Neuroscience', 'Toxicology', 'Pathology', 'Pharmacology'], [u'Institute of Bioscience, Universiti Putra Malaysia', u'Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Universiti Putra Malaysia']]
[u'Joint estimation of crown of thorns (Acanthaster plancii) densities on the Great Barrier Reef', ['M. Aaron MacNeil', 'Camille Mellin', 'Morgan S Pratchett', 'Jessica Hoey', 'Kenneth RN Anthony', 'Alistair J Cheal', 'Ian Miller', 'Hugh Sweatman', 'Zara L Cowan', 'Sascha Taylor', 'Chris J Fonnesbeck'], u'2016-05-20', u'Crown-of-thorns starfish (CoTS; Acanthaster spp.) are an outbreaking pest among many Indo-Pacific coral reefs that cause substantial ecological and economic damage. Despite ongoing CoTS research there remain critical gaps in observing CoTS populations and accurately estimating their numbers, greatly limiting understanding of the causes and sources of CoTS outbreaks. Here we address two of these gaps by (1) estimating the detectability of adult CoTS on typical underwater visual count (UVC) surveys using covariates and (2) inter-calibrating multiple data sources to estimate CoTS densities within the Cairns sector of the Great Barrier Reef (GBR). We find that, on average, CoTS detectability is high at 0.82 [0.77, 0.87] (median highest posterior density (HPD) and [95% uncertainty intervals]), with CoTS disc width having the greatest influence on detection. Integrating this information with coincident surveys from alternative sampling programs, we estimate CoTS densities in the Cairns sector of the GBR averaged 44 [41, 48] adults per hectare in 2014.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2057/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Australian Institute of Marine Science', u'ARC Centre of Excellence for Coral Reef Studies, James Cook University', u'Department of Mathematics and Statistics, Dalhousie University', u'The Environment Institute and School of Biological Sciences, University of Adelaide', u'Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority', u'Queensland Parks and Wildlife Service (Marine Parks), Queensland Department of National Parks, Sport and Racing', u'Department of Biostatistics, Vanderbilt University Medical Center']]
[u'Evaluating the effects of habitat condition, climate and predator density on Shiras moose demography', ['Brendan Oates', 'Kevin Monteith', 'Jerod Merkle', 'Gary Fralick', 'Alyson B Courtemanch', 'Douglas Smith', 'Daniel Stahler', 'Sarah Dewey', 'Michael Jimenez', 'Jacob Goheen', 'Matthew Kauffman'], u'2016-05-20', u'Over the past two decades, populations of Shiras moose (Alces alces shirasi) in western Wyoming have declined. Recent work on the Jackson herd in northwest Wyoming suggests that the 1988 Yellowstone fires and regional drought contributed to a considerable decline in calf recruitment, which coincided with the recovery of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis) and gray wolves (Canis lupus occidentalis) to the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem (GYE). Predation is also presumed to have contributed to declines in calf recruitment, but the relative influence of these predators has yet to be evaluated. We analyzed a time series of vital rates to identify the spatial extent and intensity at which predator density, habitat condition, and interacting abiotic factors limit population growth. We focused on neonate and winter calf survival because calves are the most vulnerable age class and because calf recruitment been shown to be one of the most important vital rates influencing population dynamics in large herbivores. Variables affecting calf survival were calculated at the seasonal home range scale from 100 individuals in the Jackson herd, and 90 individuals in an adjacent herd directly to the south, where moose are exposed to markedly lower predator density. We detected negative effects of grizzly bear density and habitat condition on neonate survival. Wolf density negatively influenced winter calf survival, but the effect was weak. Our spatial analysis of individual fitness in these two herds suggests that Shiras moose in the GYE have struggled to cope simultaneously with the effects of sub-optimal habitat conditions and predator density, highlighting the need to prioritize efforts to conserve Shiras moose as climate change continues to progress.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2056/', ['Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Wyoming Cooperative Fish and Wildlife Research Unit, Department of Zoology & Physiology, University of Wyoming', u'Haub School of Environment and Natural Resources, Wyoming Cooperative Fish and Wildlife Research Unit, Department of Zoology and Physiology, University of Wyoming', u'Wyoming Game and Fish Department', u'Wyoming Game and Fish Department', u'Yellowstone National Park, National Park Service', u'Grand Teton National Park, National Park Service', u'US Fish and Wildlife Service', u'Department of Zoology & Physiology, University of Wyoming', u'USGS, Wyoming Cooperative Fish and Wildlife Research Unit, Department of Zoology & Physiology, University of Wyoming']]
[u'Morphological evidence for introgressive hybridization between Feirana quadranus and Feirana taihangnica in Tsinling Mountains, China', ['Yang Song', 'Xin Sui', 'Yuhong Bian', 'Junfang Zhang', 'Junqiang Zheng', 'Pipeng Li'], u'2016-05-20', u'Background. Feirana quadranus and Feirana taihangnica, two species of frogs inhabiting in waterbodies in the Tsinling Mountains, China, are believed to be sister species that diverged 46,000 years ago. In their sympatric area, morphological variations found between the two species imply that the two species had inter-bred. Additionally, F. taihangnica\u2019s polyandrous breeding behavior, without amplexus, would not hinder the potential hybridization.  Methods. To verify the hybridization, 117 specimens of F. quadranus and F. taihangnica were collected from eight sampling sites in their sympatric area, and 110 of the specimens were classified morphologically into VV, vw&wv, and ww, representing the putative parental and suspected hybrid types. Their maternal bloodlines were identified using a phylogenetic tree based on a region of the mitochondrial 16S rRNA gene. In total, 34 morphometric indices were selected to analyze the morphological variation between 16S-types or among morphotypes. A principal component analysis (PCA) and linear discriminant analysis (LDA) were conducted on total or partial indices for females, males, and total specimens, as well as simulated populations with falsified morphotypes. The most important indices for differentiation among morphotypes were revealed with the assistance of heat-maps.  Results. In the mitochondrial DNA tree, most of the VV were in the same clade as the reference F. quadranus, labeled as Q, while most of the ww and vw&wv were grouped with the reference F. taihangnica, labeled as T. According to the PCA, there was a clear differentiation between VV and ww, while vw&wv specimens were in the middle area close to ww. According to the LDA, VV, vw&wv, and ww were clustered into three separate groups. An ambiguous differentiation between Q and T was shown both in mtDNA tree and in multivariate analyses. Seven of the specimens with conflicting classifications blurred the morphological boundary between Q and T. In both the PCA and LDA, indices that were based on the extent of bumps and skin coloration discriminated VV, vw&wv, and ww better than ratio indices that were derived from measurements. Discussion. The distribution of VV, vw&wv, and ww in multivariate spaces, especially vw&wv being scattered between VV and ww, demonstrated an introgressive hybridization pattern. The extents of bumps in the shape of an inverted "V" between the shoulder blades, spot pattern on the back, and large bumps above the anal region were the most important characteristics for differentiating between three morphotypes or between F. quadranus and F. taihangnica.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2058/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Molecular Biology', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology', 'Statistics'], [u'Shenyang Institute of Applied Ecology, Chinese Academy of Sciences', u"Xi'an", u'Shaanxi', u'Shenyang Normal University']]
[u'Mathematical models are a powerful method to understand and control the spread of Huanglongbing', ['Rachel A Taylor', 'Erin Mordecai', 'Christopher A Gilligan', 'Jason R Rohr', 'Leah R Johnson'], u'2016-05-20', u'Huanglongbing, or citrus greening, is a global citrus disease occurring in almost all citrus growing regions and causing substantial economic burdens to individual growers, citrus industries and governments. Successful management strategies to reduce disease burden are desperately needed but with so many possible interventions and combinations thereof, it is difficult to know which are worthwhile or cost-effective. We review how mathematical models have yielded useful insights into controlling disease spread for other vector-borne plant diseases, and the small number of mathematical models of Huanglongbing. We adapt a malaria model to Huanglongbing, by including temperature-dependent psyllid traits and economic costs, to show how models can be used to highlight which parameters require more data collection or which should be targeted for intervention. We analyze the most common intervention strategy, insecticide spraying, to determine the most cost-effective spraying strategy. We found that fecundity and feeding rate of the vector require more experimental data collection, for wider temperatures ranges. The best strategy for insecticide intervention was to spray for more days rather than pay extra for a more efficient spray. We conclude that mathematical models are able to provide useful recommendations for managing Huanglongbing spread.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2059/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Ecology', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of Integrative Biology, University of South Florida', u'Department of Biology, Stanford University', u'Department of Plant Sciences, University of Cambridge', u'Department of Statistics, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University (Virginia Tech)']]
[u'Hypo- and hyper-connectivity in default mode network related to social impairment in tweens with autism spectrum disorder', ['Wilma Matthysen', 'Daniele Marinazzo', 'Roma Siugzdaite'], u'2016-05-20', u'Background. Autism spectrum disorder is a neurodevelopmental disorder, marked by impairment in social communication and restricted, repetitive patterns of behavior, interests, or activities. Accumulating data suggests that alterations in functional connectivity might contribute to these deficits. Whereas functional connectivity in resting state fMRI is expressed by several resting-state networks, for this study we examined several of them, but our particular interest was in the default mode network (DMN), given its age dependent alteration of functional connectivity and its relation to social communication. Methods. Since the studies investigating young children (6-8 years) with autism have found hypo-connectivity in DMN and studies on adolescents (12-16 years old) with autism have found hyper-connectivity in the DMN, we were interested in connectivity pattern during the age of 8 to 12, so we investigated the role of altered intrinsic connectivity in 16 children (mean age 9.75 \xb11.6 years) with autism spectrum disorder compared to 16 typically developing controls in the DMN and other resting-state networks. Results. Results show that, compared to controls, the group with autism spectrum disorder showed signs of both hypo- and hyper-connectivity in different regions of the resting-state networks related to social communication. Conclusion. That suggests that transition period from childhood to adolescence carries the complexity of functional connectivity from both age groups. Regions that showed differences in functional connectivity were discussed in relation to social communication difficulties.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2060/', ['Cognitive Disorders'], [u'Department of Clinical Psychology, Ghent University', u'Department of Data analysis, Ghent University', u'Department of Experimental Psychology, Ghent Universify']]
[u'Comparison of the rate of claw horn growth and wear and sole thickness in dairy cattle housed in a free stall barn with concrete and rubber flooring', ['Sarel Van Amstel', 'Charles Young', 'Clare Scully', 'Barton Rohrbach'], u'2016-05-20', u'Background. Thin soles and resulting lameness in cows are often due to abrasive walking surfaces that cause increased wear. The aim of this project was to compare horn growth and wear and sole thickness in cows kept on rubber mats versus concrete in a free-stall barn. Methods. To examine horn growth and wear and sole thickness, we examined two groups (Group 1 kept on concrete [control] and Group 2 on rubber mats) of 12 cows each at 2-week intervals over a 12-week period. The 12 cows in each group were selected to achieve equal parity in each group, as follows: four cows, parity 1; four cows, parity 2; two cows, parity 3; and two cows, parity 4. The four cows from the parity 1 group had the most days in milk in the herd irrespective of milk production. The remaining eight cows had the fewest days in milk (most recently calved) irrespective of milk production. Results. Cows in the control group had a significant increase in claw horn growth over the study period, compared to the control group. Most of this difference in horn growth occurred during the first 2 weeks of the study. There was no significant difference in claw horn wear and sole thickness at 2 weeks or at the end of the study. There was, however, a non-significant difference in wear between cows in the 2 groups at the end of the study, with cows in the control group showing most wear. Cows in the experimental group exhibited significant increases in all parameters (claw length, wear, and growth; sole thickness) when measured at the beginning and end of the trial, whereas cows in the control group showed a significant increase in claw length and sole thickness.Discussion. These findings suggest that there was a compensatory increase in horn production in response to accelerated claw horn wear in the control group. Statistical significance in wear might have been attained between groups at the end of the study if the study had continued over a longer period.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2061/', ['Veterinary Medicine'], [u'Department of Large Animal Clinical Sciences, University of Tennessee', u'Department of Animal Science, University of Tennessee', u'Department of Veterinary Clinical Studies, Louisiana State University and Agricultural and Mechanical College', u'Department of Biomedical and Diagnostic Sciences, University of Tennessee']]
[u'Self-concept in poor readers: a systematic review protocol', ['Genevieve M McArthur', 'Deanna Francis', 'Nathan Caruana', 'Mark E Boyes', 'Nicholas A Badcock'], u'2016-05-20', u'Individuals with poor reading ability are at greater risk of educational and occupational difficulties. In addition to this, these individuals are also at greater risk of poor health outcomes, particularly mental health. At least some of this association may be underpinned by poor self-concept; however, the evidence for this relationship is mixed. In this systematic review protocol, we outline an approach to adjudicate between three reasons for these mixed results: (1) poor reading is more closely associated with some types of self-concept than others; (2) low self-concept is more closely associated with some types of poor reading than others; and (3) low self-concept is not associated with poor reading per se, but is associated with co-morbid problems with language or attention. The protocol proposes a review (based on PRSIMA-P guidelines) to use the existing literature to explore the evidence for these possibilities to better understand the association between poor reading and low self-concept.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2062/', ['Cognitive Disorders', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Department of Cognitive Science, ARC Centre of Excellence in Cognition and its Disorders, Macquarie University', u'School of Psychology and Speech Pathology, Curtin University of Technology']]
