[u'Microbial communities mediating algal detritus turnover under anaerobic conditions', ['Jessica M Morrison', 'Chelsea L Murphy', 'Kristina Baker', 'Richard Zamor', 'Steve J Nikolai', 'Shawn Wilder', 'Mostafa S Elshahed', 'Noha H Youssef'], u'2016-09-15', u'Background. Algae encompass a wide array of photosynthetic organisms that are ubiquitously distributed in aquatic and terrestrial habitats. Algal species often bloom in aquatic ecosystems, providing a significant autochthonous carbon input to the deeper anoxic layers in stratified water bodies. In addition, various algal species have been touted as promising candidates for anaerobic biogas production from biomass. Surprisingly, in spite of its ecological and economic relevance, the microbial community involved in algal detritus turnover under anaerobic conditions remains largely unexplored. Results. Here, we characterized the microbial communities mediating the degradation of Chlorella vulgaris (Chlorophyta), Chara sp. strain IWP1 (Charophyceae), and kelp Ascophyllum nodosum (phylum Phaeophyceae), using sediments from an anaerobic spring (Zodlteone spring, OK; ZDT), sludge from a secondary digester in a local wastewater treatment plant (Stillwater, OK; WWT), and deeper anoxic layers from a seasonally stratified lake (Grand Lake O\u2019 the Cherokees, OK; GL) as inoculum sources. Within all enrichments, the majority of algal biomass was metabolized within 13-16 weeks, and the process was accompanied by an increase in cell numbers and a decrease in community diversity. Community surveys based on the V4 region of the 16S rRNA gene identified different lineages belonging to the phyla Bacteroidetes, Proteobacteria (alpha, delta, gamma, and epsilon classes), Spirochaetes, and Firmicutes that were selectively abundant under various substrate and inoculum conditions. Within all kelp enrichments, the microbial communities structures at the conclusion of the experiment were highly similar regardless of the enrichment source, and were dominated by the genus Clostridium, or family Veillonellaceae within the Firmicutes. In all other enrichments the final microbial community was dependent on the inoculum source, rather than the type of algae utilized as substrate. Lineages enriched included the uncultured groups VadinBC27 and WCHB1-69 within the Bacteroidetes, genus Spirochaeta and the uncultured group SHA-4 within Spirochaetes, Ruminococcaceae, Lachnospiraceae, Yongiibacter, Geosporobacter, and Acidaminobacter within the Firmicutes, and genera Kluyvera, Pantoea, Edwardsiella and Aeromonas, and Buttiauxella within the Gamma-Proteobaceteria order Enterobacteriales. Conclusions. Our results represent the first systematic survey of microbial communities mediating turnover of algal biomass under anaerobic conditions, and highlights the diversity of lineages putatively involved in the degradation process.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2453/', ['Microbiology'], [u'Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, Oklahoma State University', u'Grand River Dam Authority', u'Department of Integrative Biology, Oklahoma State University']]
[u'Atropos: specific, sensitive, and speedy trimming of sequencing reads', ['John P Didion', 'Francis S Collins'], u'2016-09-15', u'A key step in the transformation of raw sequencing reads into biological insights is the trimming of adapter sequences and low-quality bases. Read trimming has been shown to increase the quality and reliability while decreasing the computational requirements of downstream analyses. Many read trimming software tools are available; however, no tool simultaneously provides the accuracy, computational efficiency, and feature set required to handle the types and volumes of data generated in modern sequencing-based experiments. Here we introduce Atropos and show that it trims reads with high sensitivity and specificity while maintaining leading-edge speed. Compared to other state-of-the-art read trimming tools, Atropos achieves a four-fold increase in trimming accuracy and a decrease in execution time of ~50% (using 16 parallel execution threads). Furthermore, Atropos maintains high accuracy even when trimming simulated data with a high rate of error. The accuracy, high performance, and broad feature set offered by Atropos makes it an appropriate choice for the pre-processing of most current-generation sequencing data sets.\nAtropos is open source and free software written in Python and available at https://github.com/jdidion/atropos.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2452/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Genomics', 'Computational Science'], [u'National Human Genome Research Institute, National Institutes of Health']]
[u'Diversity and mechanisms of arsenic resistance among soil bacteria impacted by the ongoing Centralia coal mine fire', ['Taylor K Dunivin', 'Justine Miller', 'Ashley Shade'], u'2016-09-15', u'We examined diversity and mechanisms of microbial arsenic resistance in Centralia, PA, the site of an underground coal seam fire burning since 1962. From hot soil collected from an active vent, we isolated 25 unique arsenic resistant bacteria spanning six genera. Although arsenic concentrations were measured to be relatively low at the time of soil collection, isolates grew with high concentrations of arsenate and arsenite (>300mM and 20mM respectively). Among these isolates, we found genes for arsenate reduction and arsenite efflux but not methylation or oxidation. Additionally, we observed evidence for horizontal gene transfer of the arsenate reductase gene arsC. Several isolates did not test positive for any of the resistance mechanisms tested, suggesting novelty, untargeted diversity, or nonspecific mechanisms of resistance. Finally, we found that comparisons of isolate growth phenotypes across arsenic concentrations provided insights into cellular responses to arsenic. We suggest that chronic exposures to low arsenic may promote mechanisms that increase environmental solubility and enhance local toxicity (e.g., reduction, arsenite efflux), while intense exposure to arsenic may promote mechanisms that reduce environmental solubility (e.g., oxidation). Thus, disturbance intensity and duration, as well as transferability of the stress response gene(s), together inform microbial community robustness to arsenic and the fate of arsenic in the environment.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2451/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Microbiology', 'Soil Science'], [u'Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, Michigan State University', u'Program in Ecology, Evolution, and Behavior, Michigan State University']]
[u'Host plant affects morphometric variation of Diaphorina citri  (Hemiptera: Liviidae)', ['Thomson M. Paris', 'Sandra A. Allan', 'David G. Hall', 'Matthew G. Hentz', 'Gabriella Hetesy', 'Philip A. Stansly'], u'2016-09-15', u'The Asian citrus psyllid (ACP), Diaphorina citri Kuwayama, is one of the most serious citrus pests worldwide due to its role as vector of huanglongbing or citrus greening disease. While some optimal plant species for ACP oviposition and development have been identified, little is known of the influence of host plants on ACP size and shape. Our goal was to determine how size and shape of ACP wing and body size varies when development occurs on different host plants in a controlled rearing environment. ACP were reared on six different rutaceous species; Bergera koenigii, Citrus aurantifolia, Citrus macrophylla, Citrus maxima, Citrus taiwanica and Murraya paniculata. Adults were examined for morphometric variation using traditional and geometric analysis based on 12 traits or landmarks. ACP reared on C. taiwanica were consistently smaller than those reared on the other plant species. Wing aspect ratio also differed between C. maxima and C. taiwanica. Significant differences in shape were detected with those reared on M. paniculata having narrower wings than those reared on C. macrophylla. This study provides evidence of wing size and shape differences of ACP based on host plant species which potentially may impact dispersal. Further study is needed to determine if behavioral and physiological differences are associated with the observed phenotypic differences.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2450/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Ecology', 'Entomology'], [u'Agriculture Research Service, United States Department of Agriculture', u'Southwest Florida Research and Education Center, University of Florida', u'Agriculture Research Service, United States Department of Agriculture']]
