[u'A computer simulation model for Strongyloides infection', ['Marcelo A Levenhagen', 'Gustavo A Ferreira', 'Getulio M Pereira', 'Anderson R Santos'], u'2016-08-28', u'Despite high success rate in treating human Strongyloides infection with ivermectin, there is no consensus about the treatment of hyperinfection by helminths of the genus Strongyloides in immunocompromised people. Chances of survival of patients suffering from strongyloidiasis hyperinfection near 50%, with the toxicity of ivermectin in nervous system aggravating the puzzle. Creation of computer models capable of faithfully reproduce established knowledge about Strongyloides infection may be useful to understand the dynamics of infection and possible treatment. A computer model was developed in COPASI using ordinary differential equations representing dynamics of helminth life cycle in a hyperinfection. A combination of Boolean variables representing an \u2019immunosuppressed\u2019 host and \u2019treated\u2019 with four doses of ivermectin (200 \u03bckg \u22121 ) raises four scenarios for time course simulations. Humoral and cellular immune responses were modeled using previous experiments whose data were approximated by ordinary functions. Three experiments, associated to strongyloidiasis hyperinfection, were successfully reproduced. A fourth scenario (immunosuppressed \u2227 treated) yielded similar results compared to literature: four doses of ivermectin (200 \u03bckg \u22121 ) were sufficient to restrain an infection, without a need for prolonged treatment. However, the smallest dosage does not suffice. A computational model for Strongyloides infection is available in SBML file format. The computational model here proposed for simulation of a hyperinfection by Strongyloides achieved similar results to previous experiments with hosts. It could allow us an in silico understanding of several aspects of infections caused by parasites of the genus Strongyloides.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2399/', ['Computational Biology', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Parasitology', 'Infectious Diseases', 'Public Health'], [u'Institute of Biomedical Sciences, Diagnosis of parasitosis Laboratory, Federal University of Uberl\xe2ndia', u'Faculty of Computing, Federal University of Uberl\xe2ndia']]
[u'The effects of cooling conditions on EDTA whole canine blood samples', ['Karen M Tobias', 'Leslie Serrano', 'Xiaocun Sun', 'Bente Flatland'], u'2016-08-28', u'Background. Preanalytic factors such as time and temperature can have significant effects on laboratory test results. For example, ammonium concentration will increase 31% in blood samples stored at room temperature for 30 minutes before centrifugation. To reduce preanalytic error, blood samples may be placed in precooled tubes and chilled on ice or in ice water baths; however, the effectiveness of these modalities in cooling blood samples has not been formally evaluated. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of various cooling modalities on reducing temperature of EDTA whole blood samples.\nMethods.  Pooled samples of canine EDTA whole blood were divided into two aliquots. Saline was added to one aliquot to produce a packed cell volume (PCV) of 40% and to the second aliquot to produce a PCV of 20% (simulated anemia). Thirty samples from each aliquot were warmed to 37.7\xb0C and cooled in 2 ml allotments under one of three conditions: in ice, in ice after transfer to a precooled tube, or in an ice water bath. Temperature of each sample was recorded at one minute intervals for 15 minutes.\nResults.  Within treatment conditions, sample PCV had no significant effect on cooling. Cooling in ice water was significantly faster than cooling in ice only or transferring the sample to a precooled tube and cooling it on ice. Mean temperature of samples cooled in ice water was significantly lower at 15 minutes than mean temperatures of those cooled in ice, whether or not the tube was precooled. By 4 minutes, samples cooled in an ice water bath had reached mean temperatures less than 4\xb0C (refrigeration temperature), while samples cooled in other conditions remained above 4.0\xb0C for at least 11 minutes. For samples with a PCV of 40%, precooling the tube had no significant effect on rate of cooling on ice. For samples with a PCV of 20%, transfer to a precooled tube resulted in a significantly faster rate of cooling than direct placement of the warmed tube onto ice.\n Discussion.  Canine EDTA whole blood samples cool most rapidly and to a greater degree when placed in an ice-water bath rather than in ice. Samples stored on ice water can rapidly drop below normal refrigeration temperatures; this should be taken into consideration when using this cooling modality.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2398/', ['Biochemistry', 'Veterinary Medicine', 'Emergency and Critical Care', 'Gastroenterology and Hepatology', 'Hematology'], [u'Department of Small Animal Clinical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine, University of Tennessee', u'College of Veterinary Medicine, University of Tennessee - Knoxville', u'Office of Information Technology, University of Tennessee - Knoxville', u'Department of Biomedical and Diagnostic Sciences, University of Tennessee - Knoxville']]
[u'Exploring the binding properties and structural stability of an opsin in the chytrid Spizellomyces punctatus using comparative and molecular modeling', ['Steven R Ahrendt', 'Edgar Mauricio Medina', 'Chia-en A Chang', 'Jason E Stajich'], u'2016-08-28', u'Background. Opsin proteins are seven transmembrane receptor proteins which detect light. Opsins can be classified into two types and share little sequence identity: type 1, typically found in bacteria, and type 2, primarily characterized in metazoa. The type 2 opsins (Rhodopsins) are a subfamily of G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), a large and diverse class of seven transmembrane proteins and are generally restricted to metazoan lineages. Fungi use light receptors including opsins to sense the environment and transduce signals for developmental or metabolic changes. Opsins characterized in the Dikarya (Ascomycetes and Basidiomycetes) are of the type 1 bacteriorhodopsin family but the early diverging fungal lineages have not been as well surveyed. We identified by sequence similarity a rhodopsin-like GPCR in genomes of early diverging chytrids and examined the structural characteristics of this protein to assess its likelihood to be homologous to animal rhodopsins and bind similar chromophores.\nMethods. We used template-based structure modeling, automated ligand docking, and molecular modeling to assess the structural and binding properties of an identified opsin-like protein found in Spizellomyces punctatus, a unicellular, flagellated species belonging to Chytridiomycota, one of the earliest diverging fungal lineages. We tested if sequence and inferred structure were consistent with a solved crystal structure of a type 2 rhodopsin from the squid Todarodes pacificus.\nResults. Our results indicate that the Spizellomyces opsin has structural characteristics consistent with functional animal type 2 rhodopsins and is capable of maintaining a stable structure when associated with the retinaldehyde chromophore, specifically the 9-cis\xad-retinal isomer. Together, these results support further the homology of Spizellomyces opsins to animal type 2 rhodopsins.\nDiscussion. This represents the first test of structure/function relationship of a type 2 rhodopsin identified in early branching fungal lineages, and provides a foundation for future work exploring pathways and components of photoreception in early fungi.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2397/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genomics', 'Mycology'], [u'Department of Plant Pathology & Microbiology, University of California, Riverside', u'Institute for Integrative Genome Biology, University of California, Riverside', u'Graduate program in Genetics, Genomics, and Bioinformatics, University of California, Riverside', u'Department of Biology, Duke University', u'Center for Genomic and Computational Biology, Duke University', u'Department of Chemistry, University of California, Riverside']]
[u'The pollination potential of Apis cerana Feb., Apis mellifera L. (Hymenoptera; Apidae) on yield of apricot (Prunus armeniaca)', ['Hafiz Tahir Waqas Gurmani', 'Waqar Jaleel', 'Shafqat Saeed', 'Aisha Riaz Gurmani', 'Qamar Saeed', 'Muhammad Nadir Naqqash', 'Fozia Ghouri', 'Muhammad Siddique Munawar', 'Muhammad Umair Sial', 'Saqib Rahman', 'Qurat Ul Aine'], u'2016-08-28', u'There are various methods of pollination, such as wind and insects, in apricot. However, wind is not considered as an effective pollinating agent for apricot because of sticky pollens, and apricot needs insects to carry pollens from stamens to the stigma of another plant. Honeybees are significant floral visitors among other pollinators for the pollination of apricot. The efficacy of pollination by two honey bee species, Apis cerana and Apis mellifera, in apricot under controlled condition was examined in the present study. One hive of each honey bee species was kept in orchard and their effect on the yield of apricot fruit setting was measured. The number of honey bees of these two species and other pollinators foraging on the open branches were also observed regularly during three different timings (i.e. 9.00am, 12.00pm, and 3.00pm) a day. Apis cerana population showed that it was directly proportional to the emergence of flowers and similar phenomenon was observed at the shedding of flowers. Significantly higher fruit yield (81%) in open-pollinated branches than closed-branches (19%) was recorded. Moreover, fruit size and quality was better in open-pollinated branches than closed-branches (covered with muslin cloth). We concluded that A. cerana was more active than A. mellifera during flowering and shedding in apricot. This study will help to manipulate the timings of insecticide spray in apricot orchard because the populations of honey bees and other pollinators will not be affected if spray done in the late evening (18.00pm to 19.00pm).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2396/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Ecology', 'Entomology'], [u'Entomology, Bahauddin Zakariya University', u'College of Agriculture, South China Agriculture University', u'Entomology, Muhammad Nawaz Sharif University of Agriculture', u'Department of zoology, Institute of Pure and Applied Biology, Bahauddin Zakariya University', u'Department of Plant production and technologies, Faculty of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Ni\u011fde University,Turkey', u'Honey bee, Honeybee research institute, national agricultural research center']]
[u'Estimation of bovine pelvic limb inertial properties using an elliptical model', ['Leopoldo Augusto Paolucci', 'Luciana de Melo M Gomides', 'Estevam B. Las Casas', 'Rafael Resende Faleiros', 'Andre Gustavo Pereira de Andrade', 'Cahue Francisco Rosa Paz', 'Veronika Fedotova', 'Hans Menzel'], u'2016-08-28', u'Development of new techniques and appropriate equipment for treatment of long bone fractures in bovines has been an objective of recent veterinary research. Accurate estimates of body segment inertial parameters (BSIP) are essential for determination of forces acting on limbs and play an important role in an appropriate prosthesis development. The aim of the present study is to examine the mass distribution properties and to suggest a geometric model of bovine right pelvic limb based on these mass distribution properties. Four Holstein breed male calves were filmed by one high-speed camera while walking on a force plate. The animals and two cadaveric specimens were examined in axial computer tomography scanner and the images were exported in DICOM (Digital Imaging and Communication in Medicine) format into a set of software and a computational model was obtained. This model provided information for geometric model construction. Measures of segmental mass, positions of segmental center of mass (CoM) and longitudinal moment of inertia (MoI) of segments of the right pelvic limb were estimated based on the proposed model. These estimates were compared with measurements obtained from a computational model and showed consistent accuracy. This study not only presents a technique that may be applied to other body segments and to different species, but also provides insight into bovine musculoskeletal system necessary to improve the models for dynamic analysis of movement and our understanding of bovine gait.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2395/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Bioengineering', 'Veterinary Medicine'], [u'Federal University of Minas Gerais \u2013 School of Engineering, Federal University of Minas Gerais', u'Federal University of Minas Gerais \u2013 School of Veterinary, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais', u'Federal University of Minas Gerais \u2013 School of Physical Education, Physiotherapy and Occupational Therapy, Federal University of Minas Gerais']]
