[u'Highlights of the 1st Argentine Symposium of Young Bioinformatics Researchers (1SAJIB) organized by the ISCB RSG-Argentina', ['R. Gonzalo Parra', 'Lucas A Defelipe', 'A. Brenda Guzovsky', 'Alexander M Monzon', 'Fiorella Cravero', 'Estefania Mancini', 'Nicolas Moreyra', 'Carla L Padilla Franzotti', 'Maria V Revuelta', 'Maria I Freiberger', 'Nahuel N Gonzalez', 'German A Gonzalez', 'Facundo Orts', 'Nicolas Stocchi', 'Marcia A Hasenahuer', 'Elin Teppa', 'Diego J Zea', 'Nicolas Palopoli'], u'2016-10-01', u'The 1st Argentine Symposium of Young Bioinformatics Researchers took place on 9-10 May 2016 at Universidad de Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, Argentina. This event evolved from a previous meeting series known as Argentine Student Council Symposium that have been successfully organized since 2012 by the Regional Student Group of Argentina (RSG-Argentina). The change in name reflects the new vision of the organizing committee to gather together all students at Bachelor, Master and PhD levels, postdocs and researchers that are still not Principal Investigator. Here we summarize the main activities and outcomes from this year\u2019s meeting and offer some insights into our future plans.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2494/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Protein Physiology Laboratory, Departamento de Qu\xedmica Biol\xf3gica, Facultad de Ciencias Exactas y Naturales, UBA-CONICET-IQUIBICEN', u'Quantitative and Computational Biology Group, Max Planck Institute for Biophysical Chemistry', u'Structural Bioinformatics Group, Departamento de Qu\xedmica Biol\xf3gica, Facultad de Ciencias Exactas y Naturales, UBA-CONICET-IQUIBICEN', u'Unidad de F\xedsico Qu\xedmica, Departamento de Ciencia y Tecnolog\xeda, Universidad Nacional de Quilmes, CONICET', u'Process Engineering - Chemoinformatics Group, PLAPIQUI (UNS-CONICET)', u'Fundaci\xf3n Instituto Leloir-IIBBA-CONICET', u'Instituto de Ecolog\xeda, Gen\xe9tica y Evoluci\xf3n de Buenos Aires (IEGEBA-CONICET)', u'Facultad de Bioqu\xedmica, Qu\xedmica y Farmacia, Universidad Nacional de Tucum\xe1n', u'Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology, Department of Medicine, Weill Cornell Medical College, Cornell University', u'Facultad de Ingenier\xeda, Universidad Nacional de Entre R\xedos', u'Instituto de Diversidad y Ecolog\xeda Animal, UNC-CONICET', u'Instituto de Investigaciones Biol\xf3gicas-CONICET, Universidad Nacional de Mar del Plata']]
[u'External bacterial diversity on bats in the southwestern United States: Changes in bacterial community structure above and below ground', ['Ara S Winter', 'Jason C Kimble', 'Jesse M Young', 'Debbie C. Buecher', 'Ernest W. Valdez', 'Jennifer J.M. Hathaway', 'Andrea Porras-Alfaro', 'Kaitlyn J. H. Read', 'Diana E. Northup'], u'2016-10-01', u'Microorganisms that reside on and in mammals, such as bats, have the potential to influence their host\u2019s health and to provide potential defenses against invading pathogens. However, we have little to no understanding of the external bacterial microbiome on bats, or factors that influence the structure of these communities. The southwestern United States offers excellent sites for the study of external bat bacterial microbiomes due to the diversity of bat species, the variety of abiotic and biotic factors that may govern bat bacterial microbiome communities, and the lack of white-nose syndrome (a newly emergent fungal disease of bats) presence in the Southwest. We studied the extent to which changes in distributions of bacteria on external bat surfaces are a function of geographic location and ecoregion, and whether the sampled bats were caught in caves or surface-netted. To test these variables we used 16S rRNA gene 454 pyrosequencing from swabs of external skin and fur surfaces from 186 bats from 14 species sampled across southeastern New Mexico to northwestern Arizona. Community similarity patterns and random forest models, and generalized linear mixed-effects models show that factors such as location (e.g. cave-caught vs. surface-netted) and ecoregion are major contributors to the structure of bacterial communities on bats. Bats caught in caves had a distinct microbial community compared to those that were netted on the surface. Our results provide a first insight into the distribution of external bat bacteria in a WNS-free environment and provide a baseline of bat external microbiomes that can be explored for potential natural defenses against pathogens.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2493/', ['Biogeography', 'Bioinformatics', 'Ecology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Biology, University of New Mexico', u'Buecher Biological Consulting', u'Fort Collins Science Center, United States Geological Survey', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Western Illinois University']]
