[u'Hard time to be parents? Sea urchin fishery shifts potential reproductive contribution of population onto the shoulders of the youngest', ['Barbara Loi', 'Ivan Guala', 'Rodrigo Pires da Silva', 'Gianni Brundu', 'Maura Baroli', 'Simone Farina'], u'2016-10-06', u'Background. In Sardinia, as in other regions of the Mediterranean Sea, sustainable fisheries of the sea urchin Paracentrotus lividus have become a necessity. At harvesting sites, the systematic removal of large individuals (diameter \u2265 50 mm) seriously compromises the biological and ecological functions of sea urchin populations. Specifically, in this study, we compared the reproductive potential of the populations from two Mediterranean coastal sites which have different levels of protection. The sites were Su Pallosu, where fishing pressure is high (take zone) and at Tavolara-Punta Coda Cavallo Marine Protected Area (no-take zone) where the pressure is negligible. Methods. Reproductive potential was estimated by calculating Gonadosomatic Index (GSI) from June 2013 to May 2014 both for individuals of commercial size (diameter without spines, TD \u2265 50 mm) and the undersized ones with gonads (30 \u2264 TD < 40 mm and 40 \u2264 TD < 50 mm). Gamete Output was calculated for the commercial-size class and the undersized individuals with fertile gonads (40 \u2264 TD < 50 mm) in relation to their natural density (Gamete Output per m2). Results. The reproductive potential of populations was slightly different at the beginning of the sampling period but it progressed at different rates with an early spring spawning event in the take zone and two gamete depositions in early and late spring in the no-take zone. For each fertile size class, GSI values changed significantly during the year of our study and between the two levels of protection. Although the multiple spawning events determined a two-fold higher total Gamete Output of population (popTGO) in the no-take zone, the population Mean Gamete Output (popMGO) was similar in the two zones. In the take zone, the commercial-sized individuals represented approximatively 5% of the population, with almost all the individuals smaller than 60 mm producing an amount of gametes nearly three times lower than the undersized ones. Conversely, the high density of the undersized individuals released a similar amount of gametes to the commercial-size class in the no-take zone. Discussion. Overall, the lack of the commercial-size class in the take zone does not seem to be very alarming for the self-supporting capacity of the population, and the reproductive potential contribution seems to depend more on the total density of fertile sea urchins than on their size. However, since population survival in the take zone is supported by the high density of undersized sea urchins between 30 and 50 mm, management measures should be addressed to maintain this size and to shed light on the source of the larval supply.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2502/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'IMC - International Marine Centre']]
[u'The Australian science gateways ecosystem', ['Michelle Barker'], u'2016-10-06', u'This talk examines Australian government initiatives to facilitate the development of science gateways, and identifies the successes and challenges in this approach.\nSince 2011 the Australian Government has funded the development of science gateways through the National eResearch Collaborative Tools and Resources ( NeCTAR ) program (www.nectar.org.au). NeCTAR has funded the development of twelve science gateways in diverse disciplines that provide highly collaborative, research-domain oriented, integrative research software infrastructure to meet researcher-defined needs. The virtual laboratories enable over 10,000 users to access data, models, analytical and workflow tools through a single online platform.\nNeCTAR also funds the Research Cloud , which provides computing infrastructure, software and services to enable Australia\u2019s research community to store, access, and run data, remotely, rapidly and autonomously. NeCTAR Cloud\u2019s self-service structure allows over 7,500 users to access their own data at any time and collaborate with others from their desktop in a fast and efficient way. NeCTAR aims to enhance research collaboration through the development of eResearch infrastructure.\nThis paper explores the structure of the NeCTAR Virtual Laboratory program, its successes and challenges, and future plans. Key features of the program include creation of platforms where tools, models and data meeting, enabling automating and sharing of research methodologies and democratisation of access. As such, the Virtual Laboratories deliver transformative research impacts and are exemplars for sector adoption of capability. Virtual Laboratories exist in disciplines including climate and weather science, genomics, characterisation, biodiversity and climate change, astronomy, human communication science, marine studies, geophysics, endocrine disorders, and cultural studies.\nSome of the enabling factors include governance structures that emphasise ownership of the Virtual Laboratories by the research community, strong user engagement in development and a support program that assists in enabling issues across the Virtual Laboratories. This has run project in areas such as provenance, authentication, security, data movement and user support. Challenges exist in sustaining a strategic approach to research software infrastructure, particularly strengthening the focus on shared research software services, improving research software quality, reliability and sustainability, and building capability within the research communities.\nThis paper will also provide opportunities for comparison and identification of potential alignment with other national/regional/disciplinary programs. Europe and USA have both initiated funding programs that have some similarities to the NeCTAR Virtual Laboratories program; however, these also take some different approaches on some issues.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2501/', ['Scientific Computing and Simulation'], [u'National eResearch Collaboration Tools and Resources, Nectar']]
[u'Overexpression of 2-Cys Prx increased salt tolerance of photosystem \u2161(PS\u2161) in tobacco', ['Hui-hui Zhang', 'Nan Xu', 'Xin Li', 'Si-yu Gu'], u'2016-10-06', u'To explore the plant active oxygen scavenging and photosynthesis function of 2-Cys Prx, a newly discovered member of the antioxidant protease family, the tobacco 2-Cys Prx gene was cloned into the plant expression vector prok \u2161. This vector, which is controlled by the constitutive strong promoter CaMV35S, was introduced into tobacco by Agrobacteria-mediated transformation. The 816-bp open reading frame of tobacco 2-Cys Prx encodes 271 amino acids and showed high homology with 2-Cys Prx genes from Solanum lycopersicum, Vitis vinifera, and Populus trichocarpa, indicating 2-Cys Prx gene is highly conserved. The active oxygen metabolism and chlorophyll fluorescence response to salt stress were also studied. Under salt stress, superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity in tobacco leaves increased, while ascorbate peroxidase (APX) activity decreased. Additionally, the donor- and acceptor-side function of photosystem \u2161 (PS\u2161) were affected by salt stress to different degrees, with the latter significantly more affected than the former. The H2O2 and malondialdehyde content of 2-Cys Prx-overexpression tobacco leaves under salt stress were all significantly lower than those of wild-type (CK) leaves. The PS\u2161 maximum photochemical efficiency (Fv/Fm) and the performance index on absorption basis (PIABS) of 2-Cys Prx-overexpression leaves were significantly lower than those of CK leaves under salt stress. Various relative fluorescence intensities of the 2-Cys Prx-overexpression plants exhibited significantly lower increases in amplitude than those of CK plants. Thus, 2-Cys Prx increased the salt tolerance of PS\u2161 function and lowered the PS\u2161 light inhibition effect in plants under salt stress, suggesting that 2-Cys Prx gene overexpression can alleviate H2O2 buildup and lower the peroxide levels of cytomembrane lipids under salt stress. Thus, 2-Cys Prx gene overexpression can protect oxygen-evolving complex function at the donor side of PS\u2161 under salt stress and also improve electron transfer at the acceptor side of PS\u2161.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2500/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Biochemistry', 'Molecular Biology', 'Plant Science'], [u'College of Resources and Environment, Northeast Agricultural University, Harbin, Heilongjiang Province, 150030, P R China;', u'Natural Resources and Ecology Institute, Heilongjiang Academy of Sciences']]
