[u'Sorting things out - assessing effects of unequal specimen biomass on DNA metabarcoding', ['Vasco Elbrecht', 'Bianca Peinert', 'Florian Leese'], u'2016-10-28', u'1) Environmental bulk samples often contain many taxa with biomass differences of several orders of magnitude. This can be problematic in DNA metabarcoding and metagenomic high throughput sequencing approaches, as large specimens contribute over proportionally much DNA template. Thus a few specimens of high biomass will dominate the dataset, potentially leading to smaller specimens remaining undetected. Sorting of samples and balancing the amounts of tissue used per size fraction should improve detection rates, but has not been systematically tested.\n2) Here we tested the effects of size sorting on taxa detection using freshwater macroinvertebrates. Kick sampling was performed at two locations of a low-mountain stream in West Germany, specimens were morphologically identified and sorted into small, medium and large size classes (< 2.5x5, 5x10 and up to 10x20 mm). Tissue from the 3 size categories was extracted individually, and pooled to simulate bulk samples that were not sorted and samples which were sorted and then pooled proportionately by specimen size. DNA from all 5 extractions of both samples was amplified using 4 different freshwater primer sets for the COI gene and sequenced on a HiSeq Illumina sequencer.\n3) Sorting taxa by size and pooling them proportionately according to their abundance lead to a more equal amplification compared to the processing of complete samples without sorting. The sorted samples recovered 30% more taxa than the unsorted samples, at the same sequencing depth. Our results imply that sequencing depth can be decreased ~ 5 fold when sorting the samples into three size classes.\n4) Our results demonstrate that even a coarse size sorting can substantially improve detection rates. While high throughput sequencing will become more accessible and cheaper within the next years, sorting bulk samples by specimen biomass is a simple yet efficient method to reduce current sequencing costs.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2561/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Molecular Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Aquatic Ecosystem Research, University of Duisburg-Essen', u'University of Duisburg-Essen, Centre for Water and Environmental Research (ZWU) Essen']]
[u'A review and meta-analysis of the enemy release hypothesis in plant\u2013herbivorous insect systems', ['Kim Meijer', 'Menno Schilthuizen', 'Leo Beukeboom', 'Christian Smit'], u'2016-10-28', u'A suggested mechanism for the success of introduced non-native species is the enemy release hypothesis (ERH). Many studies have tested the predictions of the ERH using the community approach (native and non-native species studied in the same habitat) or the biogeographical approach (species studied in their native and non-native range), but results are highly variable, possibly due to large variety of study systems incorporated. We therefore focused on one specific system: plants and their herbivorous insects. We performed a systematic review and compiled a large number (68) of datasets from studies comparing herbivorous insects on native and non-native plants using the community or biogeographical approach. We performed a meta-analysis to test the predictions from the ERH for insect diversity (number of species), insect load (number of individuals) and level of herbivory for both the community and biogeographical approach. For both the community and biogeographical approach insect diversity was significantly higher on native than on non-native plants. Insect load tended to be higher on native than non-native plants at the community approach only. Herbivory was not different between native and non-native plants at the community approach, while there was too little data available for testing the biogeographical approach. Our meta-analysis generally supports the predictions from the ERH for both the community and biogeographical approach, but also shows that the outcome is importantly determined by the response measured and approach applied. So far, very few studies apply both approaches simultaneously in a reciprocal manner while this is arguably the best way for testing the ERH.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2560/', ['Ecology'], [u'Groningen Institute for Evolutionary Life Sciences, University of Groningen', u'Altenburg & Wymenga Ecological Consultants', u'Endless Forms group, Naturalis Biodiversity Center']]
