[u'A comparison of least squares regression and geographically weighted regression modeling of West Nile virus risk based on environmental parameters', ['Abhishek K Kala', 'Chetan Tiwari', 'Armin R Mikler', 'Samuel F Atkinson'], u'2016-12-24', u'Background. The primary aim of the study reported here was to determine the effectiveness of utilizing local spatial variations in environmental data to uncover the statistical relationships between West Nile Virus (WNV) risk and environmental factors. Because least squares regression methods do not account for spatial autocorrelation and non-stationarity of the type of spatial data analyzed for studies that explore the relationship between WNV and environmental determinants, we hypothesized that a geographically weighted regression model would help us better understand how environmental factors are related to WNV risk patterns without the confounding effects of spatial non-stationarity.\nMethods. We examined commonly mapped environmental factors using both ordinary least squares regression (LSR) and geographically weighted regression (GWR). Both types of models were applied to examine the relationship between WNV-infected dead bird counts and various environmental factors for those locations. The goal was to determine which approach yielded a better predictive model.\nResults. LSR efforts lead to identifying three environmental variables that were statistically significantly related to WNV infected dead birds (adjusted R2=0.61): stream density, road density, and land surface temperature. GWR efforts increased the explanatory value of these three environmental variables with better spatial precision (adjusted R2 = 0.71).\nConclusions. The spatial granularity resulting from the geographically weighted approach provides a better understanding of how environmental spatial heterogeneity is related to WNV risk as implied by WNV infected dead birds, which should allow improved planning of public health management strategies.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2673/', ['Biogeography', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Epidemiology', 'Infectious Diseases', 'Public Health'], [u'Advanced Environmental Research Institute and Department of Biological Sciences, University of North Texas', u'Advanced Environmental Research Institute and Department of Geography and the Environment, University of North Texas', u'Advanced Environmental Research Institute and Department of Computer Science and Engineering, University of North Texas']]
[u"Best beach front real estate: microhabitat segregation of sympatric species of geckos on Mo'orea, French Polynesia", ['Ferris Eric-Hisham Zughaiyir'], u'2016-12-24', u'Background\n\nUnderstanding how interspecific interactions affect a species and its access to resources is of great importance in a changing environment with limited resources. Investigating the effects of interspecific interactions of sympatric gecko species in Moorea provided insight into gecko community dynamics. The aim of this study is to understand the preference of diurnal shelter as a means of effectively managing available resources in a manner that allows for the coexistence of four sympatric species of nocturnal geckos. Microhabitat preference of four species of nocturnal geckos who coexist within an overlapping niche were examined by addressing the following questions: Will different species of geckos prefer to choose different diurnal shelters when in the presence of heterospecifics? Will shelter choice by the native geckos differ in different biomes? Out of the three most common species of geckos studied, which species will have a higher prevalence of taking refuge in horizontal microhabitats as opposed to vertical microhabitats?\n\nMethods\n\nTo quantify patterns of microhabitat selection of sympatric gekkonids, a field survey categorized into three zones that ranged from high, intermediate, and low human disturbance was conducted. In field study observed shelter preferences was categorized into either ground, plant, or vertical shelters. In addition, interaction experiments with individuals of three gecko species were conducted.\n\nResults\n\nThe results suggested interspecific interactions may in fact have an impact on the preference of diurnal sleeping shelter choice by geckos. Comparing conspecific with heterospecific trials of G. oceanica and H. frenatus, results suggested interspecific interactions playing a significant role in shelter preference. This same comparison for L. lugubris revealed interspecific interactions not playing an important role in their preference for shelter. Results from field survey yielded significant trends of each of the four species preferring certain shelter types from three categories. Shelter preference of vertical shelters by G. oceanica was reflected both in experimental and field studies. This trend of similar shelter preference when both field and experimental studies were compared did not hold true for H. frenatus and L. lugubris. Furthermore, human disturbance did not seem to play a significant role in influencing diurnal shelter preference of gecko species.\n\nDiscussion \n\nUsing this investigative approach, gecko shelter preferences was revealed. The results from this study suggested that although in some cases certain species held strong shelter preferences, these preferences change due to interspecific interactions. Understanding more about the severity of these interactions can help bridge the gap of understanding pertaining to the factors that shape the distributions and abundances of different gecko species who live in communities where resources are very limited.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2675/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Zoology'], [u'Integrative Biology, University of California, Berkeley', u'Biology (Zoology), San Francisco State University']]
[u"Impacts of deforestation on passerine avifauna in the Opunohu Valley of Mo'orea, French Polynesia", ['Vanessa M. ZoBell', 'Brett J Furnas'], u'2016-12-24', u'Human expansion has negatively impacted biodiversity. Oceanic islands have some of the most diverse, endemic biodiversity. Endemism leads to vulnerability due to the isolated and discrete nature of oceanic islands. Birds are indicator species that adapt to change very quickly. By analyzing birds, we can investigate how changes in behavior and abundance may occur for different species in the future. Nine passerine bird species were studied with automated acoustic recording devices. Recording devices were places in agricultural, forest, and mixed habitats. Three invasive species preferred agriculture areas and low canopy cover, based on call frequency and detection probability. Native bird detectability was significantly lower than invasive bird detectability. Occupancy was above 0.8 for all species, except for the gray-green fruit dove that was >0.6. Native bird populations are at risk, based on their calling number and detection probability.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2672/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Wildlife, Fish, and Conservation Biology, University of California, Davis', u'Environmental Science Management and Policy, University of California, Berkeley', u'California Department of Fish and Wildlife']]
[u'A 20-year comparison of shrimp populations in the Opunohu Valley of Moorea, French Polynesia', ['Ari H Goldstein'], u'2016-12-24', u'Global change is a central issue in many fields of science, particularly related to climate. One impact of climate change is changing weather patterns. This study focuses on the effects of changes in rainfall on freshwater stream ecosystems. Streams on small tropical islands are extremely fragile ecosystems. On the South Pacific volcanic island of Moorea, French Polynesia, lies the Opunohu Valley watershed. The Opunohu valley watershed is inhabited by three species of shrimp: Macrobrachium sp., Atyoida pilipes, and Caridina weberi. These shrimps are key components of their ecosystem because they break down organic material that falls into the stream thereby creating habitat for many other living organisms. Thus, they are a good measure of stream ecosystem health. This study focused on nine different sites throughout Opunohu valley. These sites had been surveyed in 1996 by C. Feldman. Comparisons to survey data collected in 1996 revealed no significant changes over time, demonstrating that shrimp populations have not declined or increased significantly in the last two decades.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2674/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecosystem Science'], [u'Department of Integrative Biology, University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'Self-management open online trials in health [SMOOTH] an analysis of existing online trials [Protocol]', ['Amy Price', 'Amanda Burls', 'Lenny Vasanthan', 'Mike Clarke', 'Su May Liew', 'Anne Brice'], u'2016-12-23', u'BACKGROUND: The use of public engagement and self-management in online clinical trials is growing with benefits, boundaries and minimal methodological guidance. This analysis explores whether running self-recruited online trials can provide trustworthy and useful answers to research questions. AIM: To systematically explore existing self-recruited online randomized controlled trials of self-management interventions and analyze the trials to assess their strengths and weaknesses, the quality of trials reporting and to report how participants were involved in the research process. METHODS: The Online Randomized Controlled Trials of Health Information Database (ORCHID) will be used as a sampling framework to identify a subset of self-management self-recruited interventions. The trials will be used to explore the qualities of self-recruited online randomized controlled trials and to evaluate how useful they are for obtaining trustworthy answers to questions about health self-management and citizen research involvement. This research employs participatory action research where researchers and participants work as collaborators. SUMMARY: This analysis can provide an overall view of effective methods for online trials and to provide insights into integration for online trials development as early as the protocol planning stage.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2671/', ['Clinical Trials', 'Evidence Based Medicine', 'Global Health', 'Public Health', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'University of Oxford', u'School of Health Sciences, City University', u'Department of Physiotherapy, Christian Medical College', u"The Queen's University Belfast", u'Department of Primary Care Medicine and Julius Center UM, University of Malaya']]
[u'Signature-based detection of behavioural deviations in flight simulators - Experiments on FlightGear and JSBSim', ['Vincent Boisselle', 'Giuseppe Destefanis', 'Agostino De Marco', 'Bram Adams'], u'2016-12-23', u'Flight simulators are systems composed of numerous off-the-shelf components that allow pilots and maintenance crew to prepare for common and emergency flight procedures for a given aircraft model. A simulator must follow severe safety specifications to guarantee correct behaviour and requires an extensive series of prolonged manual tests to identify bugs or safety issues. In order to reduce the time required to test a new simulator version, this paper presents rule-based models able to automatically identify unexpected behaviour (deviations). The models represent signature trends in the behaviour of a successful simulator version that are compared to the behaviour of a new simulator version. Empirical analysis on nine types of injected faults in the popular FlightGear and JSBSim open source simulators shows that our approach does not miss any deviating behaviour considering faults which change the flight environment, and that we are able to find all the injected deviations in 4 out 7 functional faults and 75% of the deviations in 2 other faults.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2670/', ['Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Scientific Computing and Simulation', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Computer Science, Polytechnique Montr\xe9al', u'Computer Science, CRIM Montreal - Brunel University', u'Dipartimento di Ingegneria industriale, University of Naples Federico II']]
[u'Ten simple rules for considering preprints', ['Philip E Bourne', 'Jessica K Polka', 'Ron D Vale', 'Robert Kiley'], u'2016-12-23', u'So why make your work available as preprints? There are perceived positives and negatives to disclosing scientific work in the form of a preprint, explored here in the form of 10 Simple Rules. These rules, if they pass review, will appear as part of the PLOS Computational Biology Ten Simple Rules Collection. The rules cover such issues as reward, incentives, speed of dissemination, quality, scooping, and record of priority. You cannot have an article describing preprints, without itself being a preprint!!', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2669/', ['Science and Medical Education'], [u'Office of the Director, National Institutes of Health', u'Whitehead Institute', u'Departmentof Cellular and Molecular Pharmacology, University of California, San Francisco', u'Wellcome Trust']]
