[u'Microbes and cancer: Coming a full circle', ['Sriganesh Srihari', 'Sulakshana Srihari'], u'2016-09-13', u'Microbes, particularly viruses, have had a chequered history in cancer research. Considered in the 1960s and 1970s as the main cause of cancers, a decade later microbes were set aside as inconsequential to the field. However, with confirmed links established between microbial infections and certain cancers in the last several years \u2013 e.g. human papillomavirus infection and cervical cancer, and Helicobacter pylori infection and gastric cancer \u2013 the field has slowly started to take notice of microbes again. Today, we know that about 15% of all cancer cases reported worldwide is due to microbes. Moreover, latest research findings suggest that viruses can be engineered to selectively target and kill cancer cells. A healthy microbiome in the human gut is also thought to aid responses to certain cancer therapies. Therefore, microbes appear to be back in the game now. Here we present a short perspective of the \u2018full circle\u2019 that microbes have come and their relevance to cancer research.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2448/', ['Infectious Diseases', 'Oncology'], [u'Institute for Molecular Bioscience, The University of Queensland', u'Pathology Laboratory, Sri Shankara Cancer Hospital and Research Centre']]
[u'RelocaTE2: a high resolution transposable element polymorphism mapping tool for population resequencing', ['Jinfeng Chen', 'Travis Wrightsman', 'Susan R Wessler', 'Jason E. Stajich'], u'2016-09-13', u'Background Transposable element (TE) polymorphisms are important components of population genetic variation. The functional impacts of TEs in gene regulation and generating genetic diversity have been observed in multiple species, but the frequency and magnitude of TE variation is under appreciated. Inexpensive and deep sequencing technology has made it affordable to apply population genetic methods to whole genomes with methods that identify single nucleotide and insertion/deletion polymorphisms. However, identifying TE transposition events or polymorphisms can be challenging due to the repetitive nature of these sequences, which hamper both the sensitivity and specificity of analysis tools.\nMethods We have developed the tool RelocaTE2 ( http://github.com/stajichlab/RelocaTE2 ) for identification of TE polymorphisms at high sensitivity and specificity. RelocaTE2 searches for known TE sequences in whole genome sequencing reads from second generation sequencing platforms such as Illumina. These sequence reads are used as seeds to pinpoint chromosome locations where TEs have transposed. RelocaTE2 detects target site duplication (TSD) of TE insertions allowing it to report TE polymorphism loci with single base pair precision.\nResults and Discussion The performance of RelocaTE2 is evaluated using both simulated and real sequence data. RelocaTE2 demonstrates a higher level of sensitivity and specificity when compared to other tools. Even in highly repetitive regions, such as those tested on rice chromosome 4, RelocaTE2 is able to report up to 95% of simulated TE insertions with less than 0.1% false positive rate using 10-fold genome coverage resequencing data. RelocaTE2 provides a robust solution to identify TE polymorphisms and can be incorporated into analysis workflows in support of describing the complete genotype from light coverage genome sequencing.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2447/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genomics', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of Plant Pathology & Microbiology, University of California, Riverside', u'Institute for Integrative Genome Biology, University of California, Riverside', u'Department of Botany and Plant Sciences, University of California, Riverside']]
[u'Stochastic extremes but convergent recovery of bacterial and archaeal soil communities to an ongoing subterranean coal mine fire', ['Sang-Hoon Lee', 'Jackson W Sorensen', 'Keara L Grady', 'Tammy C Tobin', 'Ashley Shade'], u'2016-09-13', u'Press disturbances are stressors that are extended or ongoing relative to the generation times of community members, and, due to their longevity, have the potential to alter communities beyond the possibility of recovery. They also provide key opportunities to investigate ecological resilience and to probe biological limits in the face of prolonged stressors. The underground coal mine fire in Centralia, Pennsylvania has been burning since 1962 and severely alters the overlying surface soils by elevating temperatures and depositing coal combustion pollutants. As the fire burns along the coal seams to disturb new soils, previously disturbed soils return to ambient temperatures, resulting in a chronosequence of fire impact. We used 16S rRNA gene sequencing to investigate bacterial and archaeal soil community responses along two active fire fronts in Centralia, and investigated the influences of assembly processes (selection, dispersal and drift) on community outcomes. The hottest soils harbored the most variable and divergent communities, despite their reduced diversity. Recovered soils converged toward similar community structures, demonstrating resilience within 10-20 years and exhibiting near-complete return to reference communities. Measured soil properties (selection), local dispersal, and neutral community assembly models could not explain the divergences of communities observed at temperature extremes. We hypothesize that transitions between the seed bank and the active community, which would manifest as drift processes, are key in explaining these divergences. These results suggest that soils generally have an intrinsic capacity for robustness to varied disturbances, even to press disturbances considered to be \u201cextreme\u201d, compounded, or incongruent with natural conditions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2446/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Microbiology', 'Soil Science'], [u'Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, Michigan State University', u'School of Civil, Environmental, and Architectual Engineering, Korea University', u'Department of Biology, Susquehanna University', u'Program in Ecology, Evolution, and Behavior, Michigan State University']]
[u'The neck of Barosaurus: longer, wider and weirder than those of Diplodocus and other diplodocines', ['Michael P Taylor', 'Mathew J Wedel'], u'2016-09-13', u'Barosaurus is a diplodocid sauropod from the Upper Jurassic Morrison Formation of the western United States, and is known for its very long neck. It is closely related to the sympatric Diplodocus, and often thought of as more or less identical except with a longer neck. The holotype YPM 429 includes three and a half posterior cervical vertebrae, somewhat distorted and damaged, which are nevertheless very distinctive and quite different from those of Diplodocus. The cervicals of the better known and more complete referred Barosaurus specimen AMNH 6341 show the same characteristic features as the holotype, though not to the same extent: transversely broad but anteroposteriorly short zygapophyseal facets; prezygapophyses carried on broad, squared-off rami; zygapophyses shifted forward relative to the centrum; diapophyses, parapophyses and neural spines shifted backwards; and broad diapophyseal \u201cwings\u201d. These features form a single functional complex, enabling great lateral flexibility, but restricting vertical flexibility. This may indicate that Barosaurus used a different feeding style from other sauropods perhaps sweeping out long arcs at ground level. The Morrison Formation contains at least nine diplodocid species in six to eight genera whose relationships are not yet fully understood, but Barosaurus remains distinct from its relatives.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2445/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology'], [u'Department of Earth Sciences, University of Bristol', u'College of Osteopathic Medicine of the Pacific and College of Podiatric Medicine, Western University of Health Sciences']]
[u'Evolutionary analysis of vision genes identifies potential drivers of visual differences between giraffe and okapi', ['Edson Ishengoma', 'Morris Agaba', 'Douglas R Cavener'], u'2016-09-13', u'Background. The capacity of species to respond and perceive visual signal is integral to their evolutionary success. Giraffe is closely related to okapi, but the two species have broad range of phenotypic differences including their visual capacities. Vision studies rank giraffe\u2019s visual acuity higher than all other artiodactyls despite sharing similar vision ecological determinants with most of them. To what extent giraffe unique visual capacity and its difference with okapi is reflected by changes in their vision genes is not understood.\nMethods. The recent availability of giraffe and okapi genome provided opportunity to identify giraffe and okapi vision genes. Multiple strategies were employed to identify thirty-six candidate mammalian vision genes in giraffe and okapi genomes. Quantification of selection pressure was performed by a combination of branch-site test of positive selection and clade models of selection divergence through comparing giraffe and okapi vision genes and their corresponding orthologous sequences from other mammals obtained from public gene banks.\nResults. Signatures of selection was identified in key genes that could potentially underlie giraffe and okapi visual adaptations. Importantly, some genes that contribute to optical transparency of the eye and those that are critical in light signaling pathway were found to show signatures of adaptive evolution or selection divergence. Comparison between giraffe and other ruminants identifies significant selection divergence in CRYAA and OPN1LW in giraffe. Significant selection divergence was identified in SAG while positive selection was detected in LUM when okapi is compared with ruminants and other mammals. Sequence analysis of OPN1LW showed that at least one of the sites known to affect spectral sensitivity of the red pigment is uniquely divergent between giraffe and other ruminants.\nDiscussion. By taking a systemic approach to gene function in vision, the results provide the first molecular clues associated with giraffe and okapi vision adaptation. At least some of the genes that exhibit signature of selection may reflect adaptive response to differences in giraffe and okapi habitat. Moreover, requirement for long distance vision associated with predation likely played an important role in the adaptive pressure on giraffe vision genes.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2444/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genomics'], [u'The School of Life Sciences and Bio-Engineering, Nelson Mandela African Institution of Science and Technology', u'Mkwawa University of College of Education, University of Dar-es-Salaam', u'Department of Biology and the Huck Institute of Life Sciences, Pennsylvania State University']]
[u'Moving to 3D: relationships between coral planar area, surface area and volume', ['Jenny E House', 'Luc M Bidaut', 'Alec P Christie', 'Oscar Pizarro', 'Maria Dornelas'], u'2016-09-13', u'Coral reefs are a valuable and vulnerable marine ecosystem. The structure of coral reefs influences their health and ability to fulfill ecosystem functions and services. However, monitoring reef corals largely relies on 1D or 2D estimates of coral cover and abundance that overlook change in ecologically significant aspects of the reefs because they do not incorporate vertical or volumetric information. This study explores the relationship between 2D and 3D metrics of coral size. We show that surface area and volume scale consistently with planar area, albeit with morphotype specific conversion parameters. We use a photogrammetric approach using open-source software to estimate the ability of photogrammetry to provide measurement estimates of corals in 3D. Technological developments have made photogrammetry a valid and practical technique for studying coral reefs. We anticipate that these techniques for moving coral research from 2D into 3D will facilitate answering ecological questions by incorporating the 3rd dimension into monitoring.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2443/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Center for Biological Diversity, Scottish Oceans Institute, School of Biology, University of St Andrews', u'Clinical Research Imaging Facility, University of Dundee', u'College of Science, University of Lincoln', u'Australian Centre for Field Robotics, University of Sydney']]
