[u'Anatomy of a crash repository', ['Joshua C Campbell', 'Eddie Antonio Santos', 'Abram Hindle'], u'2016-11-19', u'This work investigates the properties of crash reports collected from Ubuntu Linux users. Understanding crash reports is important to better store, categorize, prioritize, parse, triage, assign bugs to, and potentially synthesize them. Understanding what is in a crash report, and how the metadata and stack traces in crash reports vary will help solve, debug, and prevent the causes of crashes. 10 different aspects of 40,592 crash reports about 1,921 pieces of software submitted by users and developers to the Ubuntu project were analyzed, plotted, and statistical distributions were fitted to some of them. We investigated the structure and properties of crash reports. Crashes have many properties that seem to have distributions similar to standard statistical distributions, but with even longer tails than expected. These aspects of crash reports have not been analyzed statistically before. We found that many applications only had a single crash, while a few applications had a large number of crashes reported. Crash bucket size (clusters of similar crashes) also followed a Zipf-like distribution. The lifespan of buckets ranged from less than an hour to over four years. Some stack traces were short, and some were so long they were truncated by the tool that produced them. Many crash reports had no recursion, some contained recursion, and some displayed evidence of unbounded recursion. Linguistics literature hinted that sentence length follows a gamma distribution; this is not the case for function name length. Additionally, only two hardware architectures, and a few signals are reported for almost all of the crashes in the Ubuntu dataset. Many crashes were similar but there were also many unique crashes. This study of crashes from 1,921 projects will be valuable for anyone who wishes to: cluster or deduplicate crash reports, synthesize or simulate crash reports, store or triage crash reports, or data-mine crash reports.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2601/', ['Software Engineering'], [u'Computing Science, University of Alberta']]
[u'Regression assumptions in clinical psychology research practice - A systematic review of common misconceptions', ['Anja Franziska Ernst', 'Casper J Albers'], u'2016-11-19', u'Misconceptions about the assumptions behind the standard linear regression model are widespread and dangerous. These lead to using linear regression when inappropriate, and to employing alternative procedures with less statistical power when unnecessary. Our systematic literature review investigated employment and reporting of assumption checks in twelve clinical psychology journals. The selected journals were representative based on impact factor. Findings indicate that normality of the variables themselves, rather than of the residuals, was wrongfully held for a necessary assumption in 4% of papers that use regression. Furthermore, 92% of all papers using linear regression were unclear about their assumption checks, violating APA-recommendations. This paper appeals for a heightened awareness for and increased transparency in the reporting of statistical assumption checking.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2602/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Statistics'], [u'Heymans Institute for Psychological Research, University of Groningen']]
[u'General purpose medical digital library definition', ['Tiago Rocha-Pereira', 'Jose A Lopes-Santos', 'Antonio Constantion L Martins'], u'2016-11-19', u'The need of an approach for the definition of a platform-independent medical digital library, using only open-source tools, will be described. To test the need and the success of such an approach, a library will be created, which can later be used in a larger scale as a general purpose digital medical tool, when comes the need to evaluate an image. As a first test, the library will be used in the development of a tool aimed to aid doctors in otoplasty candidates\u2019 evaluation. This tool shall be developed and tested first on a mobile platform, so the potential of the developed library can be tested on the most adverse situation. Also, the resulting library will be license free, making easier the collaboration of others in development and integration with other software, translating in a better spread of the library in medical practice', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2599/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computer Vision', 'Digital Libraries', 'Software Engineering'], [u'GECAD, Instituto Superior de Engenharia do Porto', u'Department of Pediatric Surgery, Centro Hospitalar do Porto']]
[u'New data towards the development of a comprehensive taphonomic framework for the Cleveland-Lloyd Dinosaur Quarry', ['Joseph E Peterson', 'Jonathan P Warnock', 'Shawn L Eberhart', 'Steven R Clawson', 'Christopher R Noto'], u'2016-11-19', u'The Cleveland-Lloyd Dinosaur Quarry (CLDQ) is the densest deposit of Jurassic theropod dinosaurs discovered to date. Unlike typical Jurassic bone deposits, it is dominated by the presence of Allosaurus fragilis. Since excavation began in the 1920\u2019s numerous hypotheses have been put forward to explain the taphonomy of CLDQ, including a predator trap, a drought assemblage, and a poison spring. In an effort to reconcile the various interpretations of the quarry and reach a consensus on the depositional history of CLDQ, new data is required to develop a robust taphonomic framework congruent with all available data. Here we present two new data sets which aid in the development of such a robust taphonomic framework for CLDQ. First, x-ray fluorescence of CLDQ sediments indicate elevated barite and sulfide minerals relative to other sediments from the Morrison Formation, suggesting an ephemeral environment dominated by periods of hypereutrophic conditions during bone accumulation. Second, the degree of weathering and hydraulic equivalency of small bone fragments dispersed throughout the matrix were analyzed from CLDQ. Results of these analyses suggest that bone fragments are autochthonous or parautochthonous and are derived from bones deposited in the assemblage. The variability in abrasion exhibited by the fragments is most parsimoniously explained by periodic reworking and redeposition during seasonal fluctuations throughout the duration of the quarry assemblage. Collectively, these data support some previous interpretations that the CLDQ represents an attritional assemblage in a poorly-drained overbank deposit where vertebrate remains were introduced post-mortem to an ephemeral pond during flood conditions. Furthermore, elevated heavy metals and rare earth elements detected at the quarry are likely a diagenetic signal, potentially produced in part from an abundance of vertebrate remains, and not the primary driver for the accumulation of carcasses. These new data help to explain the specific depositional environment of the quarry, and represent a significant step in understanding the taphonomy of the bone bed and late Jurassic paleoecology.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2600/', ['Ecosystem Science', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology'], [u'Department of Geology, University of Wisconsin-Oshkosh', u'Department of Geoscience, Indiana University of Pennsylvania', u'Department of Entomology, University of Wisconsin-Madison', u'Department of Biological Sciences, University of Wisconsin-Parkside']]
