[u'SymPy: Symbolic computing in Python', ['Aaron Meurer', 'Christopher P Smith', 'Mateusz Paprocki', 'Ondrej Certik', 'Matthew Rocklin', 'AMiT Kumar', 'Sergiu Ivanov', 'Jason K Moore', 'Sartaj Singh', 'Thilina Rathnayake', 'Sean Vig', 'Brian E Granger', 'Richard P Muller', 'Francesco Bonazzi', 'Harsh Gupta', 'Shivam Vats', 'Fredrik Johansson', 'Fabian Pedregosa', 'Matthew J Curry', 'Ashutosh Saboo', 'Isuru Fernando', 'Sumith', 'Robert Cimrman', 'Anthony Scopatz'], u'2016-05-29', u'SymPy is an open source computer algebra system written in pure Python. It is built with a focus on extensibility and ease of use, through both interactive and programmatic applications. These characteristics have led SymPy to become the standard symbolic library for the scientific Python ecosystem. This paper presents the architecture of SymPy, a description of its features, and a discussion of select domain specific submodules. The supplementary materials provide additional examples and further outline details of the architecture and features of SymPy.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2083/', ['Scientific Computing and Simulation'], [u'Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of South Carolina', u'Other, Polar Semiconductor, Inc.', u'Continuum Analytics, Inc.', u'Los Alamos National Laboratory', u'Department of Applied Mathematics, Delhi Technological University', u'Universit\xe9 Paris Est Cr\xe9teil', u'Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, University of California, Davis', u'Mathematical Sciences, Indian Institute of Technology (BHU)', u'Department of Computer Science and Engineering, University of Moratuwa', u'University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign', u'California Polytechnic State University', u'Center for Computing Research, Sandia National Laboratories', u'Department of Theory and Bio-Systems, Max Planck Institute of Colloids and Interfaces', u'Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur', u'INRIA Bordeaux-Sud-Ouest -- LFANT project-team', u'INRIA -- SIERRA project-team', u'Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of New Mexico', u'Center for Quantum Information and Control, University of New Mexico', u'Sandia National Laboratories', u'Birla Institute of Technology and Science, Pilani, K.K. Birla Goa Campus', u'Indian Institute of Technology Bombay', u'New Technologies -- Research Centre, University of West Bohemia']]
[u'Silviculture approaches to restoring a predator-prey system: examples from the LiDea project in Boreal Alberta', ['Michael Cody', 'Scott McNay', 'Glenn D. Sutherland', 'Geoff Sherman'], u'2016-05-29', u'The issue of Woodland caribou decline has been identified corporately as a top environmental priority for Cenovus energy Inc. Pursuant to this priority, a habitat centric environmental strategy and performance commitments have been developed. Beginning in 2008, Cenovus began applied investigation into the use of silviculture techniques for accelerated restoration, emphasizing the bog and fen forest site types that are characteristic of Boreal caribou habitat. In a larger scale project called LiDea, restoration treatments were ultimately applied to linear features throughout an area of 370 km 2 within the Cold Lake herd range. As indicated by metrics at the site level, as well as GPS collar re-locations, plant and animal response to restoration treatment are positive from a caribou perspective. Results from the LiDea series of projects have been strong enough to warrant the extension of these forest habitat restoration methods to the landscape scale.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2082/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Land and Biodiversity, Cenovus Energy', u'Wildlife Infometrics Inc.', u'Woodlands North Ltd.']]
