[u'CartograTree: Enabling Landscape Genomics for Forest Trees', ['Nic Herndon', 'Emily S Grau', 'Iman Batra', 'Steven A Demurjian Jr.', 'Hans A Vasquez-Gross', 'Margaret E Staton', 'Jill L Wegrzyn'], u'2016-08-08', u"Forest trees cover just over 30% of the earth's surface and are studied by researchers around the world for both their conservation and economic value. With the onset of high throughput technologies, tremendous phenotypic and genomic data sets have been generated for hundreds of species. These long-lived and immobile individuals serve as ideal models to assess population structure and adaptation to environment. Despite the availability of comprehensive data, researchers are challenged to integrate genotype, phenotype, and environment in one place. Towards this goal, CartograTree was designed and implemented as a repository and analytic framework for genomic, phenotypic, and environmental data for forest trees. One of key components, the integration of geospatial data, allows the display of environmental layers and acquisition of environmental metrics relative to the positions of georeferenced individuals.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2345/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Data Mining and Machine Learning'], [u'Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Connecticut', u'Department of Plant Sciences, University of California, Davis', u'Department of Entomology and Plant Pathology, University of Tennessee']]
[u'Predator management and species at risk in Alberta', ['Dave Hervieux'], u'2016-08-08', u'Alberta has employed lethal techniques to reduce predator populations in several wildlife-management situations, particularly in attempts to achieve goals and objectives for threatened or endangered species. Annual wolf populations reductions within and adjacent to woodland caribou population ranges in West Central Alberta are a notable example of this management approach. Almost all woodland caribou populations in Alberta are exhibiting ongoing population declines, with some populations declining at rapid rates. Current knowledge indicates that these declines are from apparent competition due to anthropogenic habitat changes, with resulting unsustainably high levels of wolf predation on woodland caribou populations. Delivery of annual wolf population reductions for two woodland caribou populations has resulted in stable or slightly increasing caribou population growth; in the absence of the wolf program at least one of the caribou populations would now be extirpated. The delivery of lethal wolf management for woodland caribou conservation and recovery in Alberta is enabled by a variety of provincial government approved management plans and policies. It is fully recognized that predator management for woodland caribou recovery must be predicated on management approaches and actions to improve caribou habitat conservation and recovery and thereby address the ultimate factors influencing apparent competition and unsustainably high levels of predation. Considerable effort is now being devoted to planning, policy revisions, regulatory adjustments, and management actions to address fundamental considerations related to caribou habitat. Progress on woodland caribou habitat will have little relevance; however, if the resident caribou population becomes extirpated before sufficient habitat recovery is achieved. Effective reductions in predation rates are needed immediately.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2344/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecosystem Science'], [u'Department of Environment and Parks, Goverment of Alberta']]
[u'Quantitative assessment of Fgfr1 expression in neurons and glia', ['Lisha Choubey', 'Jantzen C Collette', 'Karen Muller Smith'], u'2016-08-08', u'Fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) and their receptors (FGFRs) have numerous functions in the developing and adult CNS. For example, the FGFR1 receptor is important for proliferation of radial glial cells in the cortex and hippocampus, oligodendrocyte proliferation and regeneration, midline glia morphology and soma translocation, Bergmann glia morphology, and cerebellar morphogenesis. In addition, FGFR1 signaling in astrocytes is required for postnatal maturation of interneurons expressing parvalbumin (PV). FGFR1 is implicated in synapse formation in the hippocampus, and alterations in the expression of Fgfr1 and its ligand, Fgf2 accompany major depression. Understanding which cell types express Fgfr1 during development may elucidate its roles in normal development of the brain as well as illuminate possible causes of certain neuropsychiatric disorders. Here, we used a BAC transgenic reporter line to trace Fgfr1 expression in the developing murine CNS. The specific transgenic line employed was created by the GENSAT project, tgFGFR1-EGFPGP338Gsat, and includes a gene encoding enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) under the regulation of the Fgfr1 promoter, to trace Fgfr1 expression in the developing CNS. This model reveals that Fgfr1 is primarily expressed in glial cells, in both astrocytes and oligodendrocytes, along with some neurons. Dual labeling experiments indicate that the proportion of GFP+ (Fgfr1+) cells that are also GFAP+ increases from postnatal day 7 (P7) to 1 month, illuminating dynamic changes in Fgfr1 expression during postnatal development of the cortex. In postnatal neurogenic areas, GFP expression was also observed in SOX2, doublecortin (DCX), and brain lipid-binding protein (BLBP) expressing cells. Fgfr1 is also highly expressed in DCX positive cells of the dentate gyrus, but not in the rostral migratory stream. Fgfr1 driven GFP was also observed in tanycytes and GFAP+ cells of the hypothalamus, as well as in Bergmann glia and astrocytes of the cerebellum. Understanding which cell types express Fgfr1 may elucidate its role in neuropsychiatric disorders and brain development.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2343/', ['Cell Biology', 'Developmental Biology', 'Neuroscience', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Department of Biology, University of Louisiana at Lafayette']]
