[u'Accumulation of DNA in an anoxic sediment \u2013 rDNA and rRNA presence of members of the microbial community from Landsort Deep, the Baltic Sea', ['Petter Thureborn', 'Yue O.O. Hu', 'Andrea Franzetti', 'Sara Sjoling', 'Daniel Lundin'], u'2016-05-18', u'Numerous investigations of bacterial communities using sequence analysis of environmental DNA have revealed extensive diversity of microbial taxa in an array of different environmental habitats. Community analysis based solely on DNA, however, does not reveal whether the detected community members are actively contributing to community functioning, or whether they are dormant or remnants of dead cells. This dilemma is of particular concern when analyzing microbial community structure of sites with a high degree of deposited matter, such as marine sediments. For example, the Baltic Sea\u2019s deepest point, the Landsort Deep, consists of anoxic sediments with a large deposition of allochthonous organic matter from the highly stratified 460 m water column above. Our previous metagenomics results indicated the presence of potential obligately aerobic and phototrophic microorganisms. To further elucidate which taxa may contribute to ecosystem function at this site, we here present three different datasets \u2013 rDNA amplicons, rDNA reads from a shotgun metagenome and expressed rRNA from a shotgun metatranscriptome. By comparing the three datasets and the ratios between rRNA and rDNA we seek to estimate the protein synthesis potential of the community members in order to provide an indication of what taxa may have cellular activity and metabolic potential. The variation in protein synthesis potential was large, both within and between taxa, in the sediment community. Many typically anaerobic taxa, e.g. from Deltaproteobacteria and Euryarchaeota, showed a high protein synthesis potential, while typical aerobes like Flavobacteria showed a low protein synthesis potential. More surprisingly, some common Baltic Sea surface water bacteria also displayed a high protein synthesis potential, suggesting they have an active role in the anoxic sediment ecosystem at 460 m depth. Both filamentous and unicellular Cyanobacteria exhibited very high protein synthesis potential, which implies a more complex role of these bacteria in carbon cycling in the Baltic Sea than previously suggested. Moreover, Mycobacteria, that were abundant in Landsort Deep sediment metagenome compared with other marine sediment metagenomes, showed protein synthesis potentials consistent with a functional role in the sediment community. Our results provide a new window of insight into the complexities of the microbial community of Landsort Deep with implications for the understanding of other anoxic accumulation sediments.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2051/', ['Computational Biology', 'Ecology', 'Microbiology'], [u'School of Natural Sciences, Technology and Environmental Studies, S\xf6dert\xf6rn University', u'School of Biotechnology, Division of Gene Technology, KTH Royal Institute of Technology', u'Deptartment of Earth and Environmental Sciences, University of Milano - Bicocca', u'Centre for Ecology and Evolution in Microbial model Systems \u2013 EEMiS, Linnaeus University']]
[u'Reporting quality of animal experiments of gastric cancer based on the ARRIVE guidelines', ['Yali Liu', 'Yuchen Feng', 'Lili Zhang', 'Xiaohuan Feng', 'Qin Feng', 'JIngyi Luo', 'Zhaodi Bai', 'Haoyu Wu', 'Xin Tian', 'Yumin Li'], u'2016-05-17', u'Objective:  The aim of this study was to use the Animals in Research: Reporting In Vivo Experiments (ARRIVE) guidelines to evaluate the quality of reporting of recent gastric cancer animal experiments. Materials and Methods: A literature search of studies was performed using the Chinese Biomedical Literature Database, Chinese Journal Full-text Database, Chinese Scientific Journal Full-text Database, and Wanfang Database from January 2010 to December 2012. We extracted data using pre-prepared Excel data-extraction forms. Reporting quality was evaluated based on the ARRIVE guidelines. Results: Of the 1816 studies that were identified by our search, 170 were subjected to quantitative analysis using the ARRIVE guidelines. The results of the evaluation based on the ARRIVE guidelines were that 132 studies (77.61%) provided an accurate and concise description of baseline conditions and clinical conditions. Only 2 (1.18%) papers provided relevant certificates of ethical review or institutional guidelines, and 2 (1.18%) papers provided an explanation of animal experiments requiring algorithms and formulas for sample size. Forty-seven (27.65%) studies described in detail how animals were assigned to each experimental group, including the randomization procedure, 2 (1.18%) reported whether blinding was used, and 15 (8.82%) evaluated the limitations of the study. Conclusions: The reporting quality of recent animal experiments of gastric cancer is inadequate. We should improve not only the quality of the methodology but also the reporting quality of the animal experiments.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2049/', ['Veterinary Medicine', 'Gastroenterology and Hepatology', 'Oncology', 'Translational Medicine', 'Statistics'], [u'Evidence-Based Medicine Center, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou University', u'Key Laboratory of Evidence-Based Medicine and Knowledge Translation of Gansu Province, Key Laboratory of Evidence-Based Medicine and Knowledge Translation of Gansu Province', u'The Second Clinical Medical College of Lanzhou University, Lanzhou University', u'School Clinic,the First Hospital,Xi\u2019an Jiaotong University, Xi\u2019an Jiaotong University', u'The First Clinical Medical College of Lanzhou University, Lanzhou University', u'The Second Hospital of Lanzhou University, Key Laboratory of Digestive System Tumors, Gansu Province, Lanzhou University']]
[u'Genetic diversity of pomegranate germplasm collection from Spain determined by fruit, seed, leaf and flower characteristics', ['Juan Jose Martinez', 'Pablo Melgarejo', 'Pilar Legua', 'Francisco Garcia', 'Francisca Hernandez'], u'2016-05-17', u'Background . Miguel Hernandez University ( Spain ) created a germplasm bank of the varieties of pomegranate from different Southeastern Spain localities in order to preserve the crop\u2019s wide genetic diversity. Once this collection was established, the next step was to characterize the phenotype of these varieties to determine the phenotypic variability that existed among all the different pomegranate genotypes, and to understand the degree of polymorphism of the morphometric characteristics among varieties. Methods.  Fifty-three pomegranate (Punica granatum  L.) accessions were studied in order to determine their degree of polymorphism and to detect similarities in their genotypes. Thirty-one morphometric characteristics were measured in fruits, arils, seeds, leaves and flowers, as well as juice characteristics including content, pH, titratable acidity, total soluble solids and maturity index. ANOVA, principal component analysis, and cluster analysis showed that there was a considerable phenotypic diversity (and presumably genetic). Results.  The cluster analysis produced a dendrogram with four main clusters. The dissimilarity level ranged from 1 to 25, indicating that there were varieties that were either very similar or very different from each other, with varieties from the same geographical areas being more closely related. Within each varietal group, different degrees of similarity were found, although there were no accessions that were identical. These results highlight the crop\u2019s great genetic diversity, which can be explained not only by their different geographical origins, but also to the fact that these are native plants that have not come from genetic improvement programs. The geographic origin could be, in the cases where no exchanges of plant material took place, a key criterion for cultivar clustering.  Conclusions.  As a result of the present study, we can conclude that among all the parameters analyzed, those related to fruit and seed size as well as the juice\u2019s acidity and pH had the highest power of discrimination, and were, therefore, the most useful for genetic characterization of this pomegranate germplasm banks. This is opposed to leaf and flower characteristics, which had a low power of discrimination. This germplasm bank, more specifically, was characterized by its considerable phenotypic (and presumably genetic) diversity among pomegranate accessions, with a greater proximity existing among the varieties from the same geographical area, suggesting that over time, there had not been an exchange of plant material among the different cultivation areas. In summary, knowledge on the extent of the genetic diversity of the collection is essential for germplasm management. In this study, these data may help in developing strategies for pomegranate germplasm management and may allow for more efficient use of this germplasm in future breeding programs for this species.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2048/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Biodiversity', 'Plant Science'], [u'Producci\xf3n Vegetal y Microbiolog\xeda, Universidad Miguel Hern\xe1ndez de Elche', u'Nutrici\xf3n Vegetal, Centro de Edafologi\u0301a y Biologi\u0301a Aplicada del Segura, CEBAS-CSIC']]
[u'Zika virus phosphoproteome through the computational looking-glass and what we found there?', ['Zarrin Basharat', 'Tabeer Khan', 'Azra Yasmin'], u'2016-05-17', u'Computational phospho-mining and related post translational modification analyses using in silico methods is debateable. For some wet lab scientists, it is similar to the twilight zone, where nothing might be quite what it seems. We certainly agree that the wet lab is critical for validation but computational assays rapidly generate preliminary data for assessment and aid wet lab. Zika virus is wrecking a havoc and it is the need of the hour to rapidly assess various phenomenon associated with its pathogenicity and disseminate it to the scientific community for assessment. Phosphorylation assists in viral replication and its association with host receptors. Here, we present a vignette of the phosphorylation potential of Zika virus proteins.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2047/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Virology'], [u'Department of Environmental Sciences, Fatima Jinnah Women University']]
