[u'Challenges in VGI for scientific projects', ['Jens Ingensand', 'Sarah Composto', 'Marion Nappez', 'Timothee Produit', 'Olivier Ertz', 'Mathias Oberson', 'Daniel Rappo'], u'2016-04-22', u'Volunteered Geographic Information (VGI) is a recent trend that has been successfully used in order to collect and share geographic information. This method is of interest for scientists who are in need of data and who want to get people involved in their cause. In this paper we discuss the challenges and opportunities that scientists may face when using the concept. An initial challenge is to find users who are willing to contribute. Second, scientist must get these users to interact with the application and with each other. The final goal is to end up with high quality data that can be used for scientific research.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1992/', ['Human-Computer Interaction', 'Mobile and Ubiquitous Computing', 'Spatial and Geographic Information Systems', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Department EC+G, University of Applied Sciences Western Switzerland, School of Business and Engineering Vaud', u'Department Comem+, University of Applied Sciences Western Switzerland, School of Business and Engineering Vaud']]
[u'Different regulation of chromatin modification guide cellular reprogramming into a rate-limited step after initiation phase', ['Rong Hu', 'Xianhua Dai', 'Zhiming Dai', 'Qian Xiang'], u'2016-04-22', u'Background. In the early and late stages of cell reprogramming to induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) ectopic expression of Oct4, Sox2, Klf4 and Myc (OSKM) aroused two peaks of transcriptional and epigenetic change respectively. However, it was relatively quiet in the intermediate stage. In this paper our aim is to gain insight into the molecular events that occur after the initiation phase of pluripotency induction. Methods. GSE42379 containing 28 gene expression profiles and GSE42477 containing 10 genome binding/occupancy profiles of mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEF) were downloaded from GEO. These datasets included untreated MEFs, OSKM-induced MEFs progressing and refractory to reprogram at 3, 6, 9, 12 day post-transduction, and iPS cell lines. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified between different cell lines. The Chip-seq peaks and putative target gene were obtained from GeneProf website. Gene ontology analysis was performed on the Ensemble website. Result. Compared with the progressing cells, the refractory cells obtained more than two times DEGs at 6 day post-transduction, in particular, down-regulated DEGs related to cell cycle, cell adhesion and development were over 4 times of that in progressing cells. The expression of the DEGs which could only be detected in refractory cells at 6 day were traced back to day 3, and we found the expression of the up-regulated DEGs at 3 day were higher in refractory cells, whereas the expression of the down-regulated DEGs at 3 day were lower in refractory cells. The analysis of histone modification in genome-wide and in DEGs showed that during the reprogramming process the increase of bivalent sites in genome were mainly attributed to gaining of H3K27me3 and losing of H3K4me3. Different regulation of H3K27me3 in DEGs was the key to regulate the expression differently in progressing and refractory cells. The expression of chromatin modifiers in the two cell populations were checked and found to be differential regulated at different time point during reprogramming process. Conclusion. Genes related to immune response, cell adhesion, DNA replication and cell cycle in the refractory cells responded to the induction factor earlier than in the progressing cells, which led to excessive conversion rate. We supposed that after initiation phase cellular reprogramming required to undergo a rate-limited step guided by different regulation of chromatin modification.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1991/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Cell Biology', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Statistics'], [u'School of Information Science and Technology, Sun Yat-sen University', u'Department of Applied Mathematics, Guangdong University of Finance']]
[u'Design of an open source framework for oil spill decision support system', ['Sahar Mokhtari', 'Jiri Kadlec'], u'2016-04-22', u'Oil spill in marine ecosystems have serious short term and long term effects on aquatics lifecycle and on social and economic activities. A Decision Support System (DSS) can assist environmental managers to visualize the distribution of oil pollution, identify sensitive areas that are likely to be exposed to oil pollutions, and assess vulnerable resources. This paper describes the design of an open source software framework and a prototype desktop software application of a DSS for oil spill management. This system can be connected to an open source oil spill simulation model. We also present a user interface for selecting the properties, time and location of a potential oil spill and for visualizing the oil spill affected area and its impact on coastal zone.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1990/', ['Human-Computer Interaction', 'Scientific Computing and Simulation', 'Spatial and Geographic Information Systems'], [u'Department of Environment, Faculty of Natural Resources, Tarbiat Modares University', u'Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Brigham Young University']]
[u'Will 1,2-dihydro-1,2-azaborine-based drugs resist metabolism by cytochrome P450 compound I?', ['Pedro J Silva'], u'2016-04-22', u'1,2-dihydro-1,2-azaborine is a structural and electronic analogue of benzene which is able to occupy benzene-binding pockets in T4 lysozymeand has been proposed as suitable arene-mimicking group for biological and pharmaceutical applications. Its applicability in a biological context requires it to be able to resist modification by xenobiotic-degrading enzymes like the P450 cytochromes. Quantum chemical computations described in this work show that 1,2-dihydro-1,2-azaborine is much more prone to modification by these enzymes than benzene, unless steric crowding of the ring prevents it from reaching the active site, or otherwise only allows reaction at the very sluggish C4-position. This novel heterocyclic compound is therefore expected to be of limited usefulness as an aryl bioisostere.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1989/', ['Biochemistry', 'Biophysics'], [u'FP-ENAS/Fac. de Ci\xeancias da Sa\xfade, Universidade Fernando Pessoa']]
[u'Long term economic evaluation of interventions targeting multiple mental health conditions: protocol for a rapid review of methods', ['Alastair G Canaway', 'Christopher J Sampson'], u'2016-04-22', u'Background. Interventions and services for people with mental health problems can have broad remits: they are often designed to treat people with a variety of diagnoses. Furthermore, addressing mental health problems can have long term implications for economic, social and health outcomes. This represents a challenge for economic evaluation, where long term trial data can be lacking. In this review we will seek to identify how analysts have sought to tackle this problem. We will review the methods used to extrapolate costs and outcomes for the purpose of economic evaluation, where long term trial data are not available. Methods/design. We will carry out a review of the medical and economic literature evaluating long-term costs and outcomes for mental health interventions and services designed to treat or prevent more than two mental health conditions. We will search the key health economic databases, including: OVID Medline, Embase, Psycinfo, CINAHL, and EconLit. The two authors will independently screen the returned results. Any discrepancies will be resolved by deliberation between the two authors. Key information will be extracted from the papers which successfully pass through the screening process. The findings will be highlighted through a narrative analysis and tabulated data. Discussion. This review will shed light on the existing methods used to model into the future when multiple mental health conditions are considered. The review will discuss the strengths and weakness within current methodologies, highlight existing flaws, and provide guidance for future economic evaluations of interventions targeting multiple mental health conditions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1988/', ['Clinical Trials', 'Evidence Based Medicine', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick', u'Division of Rehabilitation and Ageing, University of Nottingham']]
[u'Determining factors affecting moose population change in British Columbia: an update', ['Shelley Marshall', 'Gerald Kuzyk', 'Doug Heard', 'Chris Procter', 'Michael Gillingham', 'Helen Schnwantje', 'Conrad Thiessen', 'Becky Cadsand', 'Michael Klaczek', 'Adrian Batho', 'Cait Nelson', 'Heidi Schindler', 'Dexter Hodder'], u'2016-04-22', u'In response to declining moose numbers in central British Columbia (BC), the BC Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations initiated a five-year (December 2013\u2013March 2018) provincially coordinated, moose-research project. The primary research objective is to identify the causes and rates of cow moose mortality and examine factors that contributed to their increased vulnerability, with particular reference to the landscape-change hypothesis. Cow moose were instrumented with GPS (Global Positioning System) radio collars and monitored in five study areas that were selected based on their moose population trend and landscape conditions, particularly the degree of mountain pine beetle salvage logging and associated road building. Samples were collected during capture for health testing. Rapid-response, mortality-site investigations were the key technique to determining probable cause of death of the collared cows. As of April 19, 2016, 336 cow moose had been fitted with GPS collars. The majority of cow moose were in good body condition, had pregnancy rates within the normal range, and showed no indication of immediate disease or parasite concerns at the population level. During this study period, the status of radio-collared cow moose was: 243 active, 49 failed (i.e., either stopped collecting location data or slipped from moose), and 44 mortalities. Probable cause of death for the 44 mortalities was predation (20), hunting (9; licensed 1, unlicensed 8), apparent starvation (4), vehicle collision (1), natural (1), unknown natural (1), health-related (1), unknown health-related (4), and unknown (3). The combined annual survival rate of cow moose from all study areas was 92 \xb1 8% in 2013/14, 92 \xb1 5% in 2014/15 and 88 \xb1 4% in 2015/16 (to April 19, 2016) \u2014 all within the normal range for stable moose populations. Preliminary results determined predation was responsible for 45% of the collared moose mortalities. Health testing is pending on samples collected from these collared moose mortalities which may provide insight on body condition or pre-existing conditions that may have increased their vulnerability to predation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1987/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations, Government of British Columbia', u'Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations, Government of British Columbia', u'Tithonus Wildlife Research', u'Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations, Government of British Columbia', u'University of Northern British Columbia', u'Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations, Government of British Columbia', u'Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations, Government of British Columbia', u'Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations, Government of British Columbia', u'John Prince Research Forest']]
[u'CATALISE: a multinational and multidisciplinary Delphi consensus study. Identifying language impairments in children', ['Dorothy V Bishop', 'Margaret J Snowling', 'Paul A Thompson', 'Trisha Greenhalgh'], u'2016-04-22', u"Delayed or impaired language development is a common developmental concern, yet there is little agreement about the criteria used to identify and classify language impairments in children. Children's language difficulties are at the interface between education, medicine and the allied professions, who may all adopt different approaches to conceptualising them. Our goal in this study was to use an online Delphi technique to see whether it was possible to achieve consensus among professionals on appropriate criteria for identifying children who might benefit from specialist services. We recruited a panel of 59 experts representing ten disciplines (including education, psychology, speech-language therapy/pathology, paediatrics and child psychiatry) from English-speaking countries (Australia, Canada, Ireland, New Zealand, United Kingdom and USA). The starting point for round 1 was a set of 46 statements based on articles and commentaries in a special issue of a journal focusing on this topic. Panel members rated each statement for both relevance and validity on a seven-point scale, and added free text comments. These responses were synthesised by the first two authors, who then removed, combined or modified items with a view to improving consensus. The resulting set of statements was returned to the panel for a second evaluation (round 2). Consensus (percentage reporting 'agree' or 'strongly agree') was at least 80 per cent for 24 of 27 round 2 statements, though many respondents qualified their response with written comments. These were again synthesised by the first two authors. The resulting consensus statement is reported here, with additional summary of relevant evidence, and a concluding commentary on residual disagreements and gaps in the evidence base.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1986/', ['Cognitive Disorders', 'Pediatrics', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Experimental Psychology, University of Oxford', u'Nuffield Department of Primary Care Health Sciences, University of Oxford']]
[u'Mitochondrial DNA suggests recent origins in two coastal avian subspecies in northwestern North America', ['Rebecca Cheek', 'Kyle K Campbell', 'Robert Dickerman', 'Berry Wijdeven', 'Kevin Winker'], u'2016-04-22', u'Genetic studies of subspecies endemic to Haida Gwaii (Queen Charlotte Islands), British Columbia and the Alexander Archipelago of southeast Alaska have frequently found genetic corroboration for these phenotypically based taxa. Divergence and speciation are common among island populations of birds, and evidence suggests this region has fostered such divergence during previous glacial maxima. We examined genetic divergence in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) of two coastal subspecies endemic to this region: sharp-shinned hawk (Accipiter striatus perobscurus) and great blue heron (Ardea herodias fannini). Genetic diversity in both species was remarkably low, with both coastal subspecies possessing only the most common haplotype found in continental populations. We found low but significant population divergence between A. s. perobscurus and continental populations of sharp-shinned hawks and no significant population divergence in the herons. The refugial history of the region suggests that these subspecies may have arisen relatively recently compared with other regional endemics for which genetic and phenotypic data both show divergence. Alternatively, species-wide selective sweeps of mtDNA prior to divergence may have rendered this genetic marker less useful for tracking that divergence.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1985/', ['Genetics', 'Zoology'], [u'University of Alaska Museum and Department of Biology and Wildlife, University of Alaska Museum', u'Ornithology Collection, University of Alaska Museum', u'University of Southwestern Biology, University of New Mexico', u'Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resources Operations']]
[u'Oops, my tests broke the build: An analysis of Travis CI builds with GitHub', ['Moritz Beller', 'Georgios Gousios', 'Andy Zaidman'], u'2016-04-22', u'Continuous Integration (CI) has become a best practice of modern software development. At present, we have a shortfall of insight into the testing practices that are common in CI-based software development. In particular, we seek quantifiable evidence on how central testing really is in CI, how strongly the project language influences testing, whether different integration environments are valuable and if testing on the CI can serve as a surrogate to local testing in the IDE. In an analysis of 2,640,825 Java and Ruby builds on Travis CI, we find that testing is the single most important reason why builds fail. Moreover, the programming language has a strong influence on both the number of executed tests, their test run time and proneness to fail. The use of multiple integration environments leads to 10% more failures being caught at build time. However, testing in the CI does not seem to be a good surrogate for running tests in the IDE. To facilitate further research on Travis CI with GitHub, we introduce TravisTorrent.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1984/', ['Data Science', 'Programming Languages', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Delft University of Technology', u'Radboud University Nijmegen']]
[u'BioMine: A database for metazoan biomineralization proteins', ['Bishoy S Hanna', 'Christian R Voolstra', 'Monica Medina'], u'2016-04-21', u'Biomineralization is the process by which living organisms construct hard skeletons creating complex structures that range from specialized tissues such as bone or teeth to ecosystems such as coral reefs. Biominerals are composed of both inorganic minerals and proteins, which give them extra hardness and special attributes. Biomineralization proteins are also known to be associated with multiple bone disorders and are therefore of biomedical importance. Herein we describe BioMine, a biomineralization centric protein database. Availability and implementation: BioMine can be accessed at http://biomine.net, SQL dump, FASTA files and source code are available for download as well.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1983/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genomics'], [u'Department of Biology, Pennsylvania State University', u'Red Sea Research Center, King Abdullah University of Science and Technology']]
[u'The health care and life sciences community profile for dataset descriptions', ['Michel Dumontier', 'Alasdair J G Gray', 'M. Scott Marshall', 'Vladimir Alexiev', 'Peter Ansell', 'Gary Bader', 'Joachim Baran', 'Jerven T Bolleman', 'Alison Callahan', 'Jose Cruz-Toledo', 'Pascale Gaudet', 'Erich A Gombocz', 'Alejandra N Gonzalez Beltran', 'Paul Groth', 'Melissa Melissa Haendel', 'Maori Ito', 'Simon Jupp', 'Nick Juty', 'Toshiaki Katayama', 'Norio Kobayashi', 'Kalpana Krishnaswami', 'Camille Laibe', 'Nicolas Le Novere', 'Simon Lin', 'James Malone', 'Michael Miller', 'Christopher J Mungall', 'Laurens Rietveld', 'Sarala M Wimalaratne', 'Atsuko Yamaguchi'], u'2016-04-21', u'Access to consistent, high-quality metadata is critical to finding, understanding, and reusing scientific data. However, while there are many relevant vocabularies for the annotation of a dataset, none sufficiently captures all the necessary metadata. This prevents uniform indexing and querying of dataset repositories. Towards providing a practical guide for producing a high quality description of biomedical datasets, the W3C Semantic Web for Health Care and the Life Sciences Interest Group (HCLSIG) identified Resource Description Framework (RDF) vocabularies that could be used to specify common metadata elements and their value sets. The resulting guideline covers elements of description, identification, attribution, versioning, provenance, and content summarization. This guideline reuses existing vocabularies, and is intended to meet key functional requirements including indexing, discovery, exchange, query, and retrieval of datasets, thereby enabling the publication of FAIR data. The resulting metadata profile is generic and could be used by other domains with an interest in providing machine readable descriptions of versioned datasets.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1982/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Taxonomy', 'Computational Science'], [u'Stanford Center for Biomedical Informatics Research, Stanford University', u'Computer Science, Heriot-Watt University', u'Department of Radiation Oncology (MAASTRO), GROW - School for Oncology and Developmental Biology, MAASTRO Clinic', u'Ontotext Corporation', u'CSIRO', u'The Donnelly Centre, University of Toronto', u'Swiss-Prot group, SIB Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics', u'Carleton University', u'SIB Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics', u'IO Informatics', u'Oxford e-Research Centre, University of Oxford', u'Elsevier Labs', u'Department of Medical Informatics and Epidemiology, Oregon Health Sciences University', u'NIBIO', u'EMBL, European Bioinformatics Institute', u'Database Center for Life Sciences', u'RIKEN', u'Cerenode Inc.', u'Babraham Institute', u"Nationwide Children's Hospital", u'Institute for Systems Biology', u'Environmental Genomics and Systems Biology, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory', u'Department of Exact Sciences, VU University Amsterdam', u'Research Organization of Information and Systems, Database Center for Life Sciences']]
[u'Insights into student gains from undergraduate research using pre/post assessments', ['Andrew McDevitt', 'Mainsha V Patel', 'Brad Rose', 'Aaron M Ellison'], u'2016-04-21', u'Undergraduate research experiences (UREs) in STEM fields expose students to scientific research and are thought to increase student retention in STEM. We developed a pre/post survey and administered it to participants of the Harvard Forest Summer Research Program in Ecology (HF-SRPE) to evaluate effectiveness of these programmatic goals. Between 2005 and 2015, the survey was sent to all 263 HF-SRPE participants; 79% completed it. Results, controlled for prior experiences, revealed significant improvements across all learning goals. Prior laboratory research experience and perception of being a respected member of a research team were positively associated with gains in research skills and abilities to do and present research. Although the pre/post surveys did not indicate changes in students\u2019 goals of pursuing STEM careers (or, more narrowly, ecological ones), the positive learning gains suggest that students with prior interests in STEM fields take advantage of UREs to solidify further their aspirations in STEM.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1981/', ['Ecology', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Harvard Forest, Harvard University', u'Brad Rose Consulting, Brad Rose Consulting']]
[u'Detection of methylation, acetylation and glycosylation of protein residues by monitoring 13C chemical-shift changes', ['Pablo G. Garay', 'Osvaldo A. Martin', 'Harold A. Scheraga', 'Jorge A. Vila'], u'2016-04-21', u'Post-translational modifications of proteins expand the diversity of the proteome by several orders of magnitude and have a profound effect on several biological processes. Their detection by experimental methods is not free of limitations such as the amount of sample needed or the use of destructive procedures to obtain the sample. Certainly, new approaches are needed and, therefore, we explore here, as a proof-of-concept, the feasibility of using 13C chemical shifts of different nuclei to detect methylation, acetylation and glycosylation of protein residues by monitoring the deviation of the 13C chemical shifts from the expected (mean) experimental value of the non-modified residue. As a validation test of this approach, we compare our theoretical computations of the 13Ce chemical-shift values against experimental data, obtained from NMR spectroscopy, for methylated and acetylated lysine residues with good agreement within ~1 ppm. Then, further use of this approach to select the most suitable 13C-nucleus, with which to determine other modifications commonly seen, such as methylation of arginine and glycosylation of serine, asparagine and threonine, shows encouraging results.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1980/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'IMASL-CONICET', u'Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Cornell University']]
[u'Fecal corticosterone excretion in captive healthy and feather picking African grey parrots (Psittacus erithacus)', ['Pierluca Costa', 'Elisabetta Macchi', 'Emanuela Valle', 'Michele De Marco', 'Laura Gasco', 'Achille Schiavone'], u'2016-04-21', u'Feather picking (FP) is a common problem in companion parrots, especially in African grey parrots (Psittacus erithacus). Many hypothesis have been made about this self-mutilating behavior, and serious psychological conflicts can play a pivotal role in the initiation of this self-defeating and self-punishing behaviour. Even though ethological distress is difficult to study, the monitoring of fecal corticoids is a useful non-invasive tool that can be used to assess stress in animals. The purpose of the present study was to compare the fecal corticosterone levels of companion African grey parrots kept as wild-type parrots (WT), healthy pet parrots (HP) and feather picking pet parrots (FPP) during the breeding season and out of the breeding season. An African grey parrot group, composed of 82 individuals, has been studied; these birds were divided into three sub-groups: 1) WT, parrots that were reared by their biological parents, kept in couples and with a regular reproduction activity; 2) HP, parrots that were hand-reared, but did not show any FP symptoms; 3) FPP, parrots that were hand-reared and that showed signs of FP. Fecal samples were collected in the morning on alternate days, during the breeding seasons and out of the breeding season. The fecal corticosterone and immunoreactive corticosterone metabolites were determined using a pan-specific corticosterone enzyme immunoassay kit (K014; Arbor Assays\xae, Ann Arbor, MI) validated for dried fecal extracts. Analysis of Variance was used to examine any variations due to the breeding season and among the groups of parrots. WT and HP parrots showed lower corticosterone levels than FPP parrots. The fecal corticosterone concentration showed an average (sum of the two seasons) of 74.10 \xb1 16.89 ng/g in the WT parrots; 79.56 \xb1 21.23 ng/g in the HP parrots and 185.53 \xb1 34.83 in the FPP parrots. A statistical trend between fecal corticosterone concentration in the different seasons for the WT parrots (P=0.085) was observed, but not for the other groups. The results suggest that 1) the highest levels of fecal corticosterone are excreted by birds affected by FP; 2) the observed highest level of corticosterone in FPP parrot suggests a role of stress in this self-injuring stereotypic behavior.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1979/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Veterinary Medicine'], [u'Department of Veterinary Science, University of Turin', u'Department of Agricultural, Forest and Food Sciences, University of Turin']]
[u'Managing elk in a world with complex predator-prey (and social!) dynamics: A case study from the Kootenays', ['Tara Szkorupa', 'Gerald Kuzyk'], u'2016-04-21', u'I will present current challenges to managing elk in a multi-predator/multi-prey system in the Kootenay Region of southeast BC. Elk in this region are highly valued by licensed hunters, First Nations and the general public and are one of the most controversial and closely monitored wildlife populations in the province. In 2010, BC Fish and Wildlife developed an elk management plan for the Kootenay Region following extensive stakeholder involvement. At that time there was relatively little regard for predation since elk populations were increasing and thought to be at or near carrying capacity in many areas. Concerns centered around the effects of large elk populations on grassland ecosystems, other wildlife species (such as bighorn sheep) and agricultural operations. Objectives for elk population targets were established by considering social and ecological criteria, and focused on reducing or maintaining populations using hunting as the primary management tool. Elk management from 2010 to 2014 followed guidance from the plan and objectives were largely achieved. Since 2014, managing elk populations has been largely reactive to the effects of predation. Information on predation is gathered from elk population and composition surveys, radio-collared elk, and anecdotal observations (e.g., from First Nations, the general public, biologists, and Conservation Officers). This information is then applied to management, in consideration of social perspectives identified through public surveys and focus group meetings. For example, wildlife staff consider predation effects on population size and trend when setting cow/calf elk seasons and number of Limited Entry Hunt authorizations. In the fall of 2015, wildlife staff began developing a provincial management plan for Rocky Mountain elk. A key part of this plan will be a management tool table, which will identify potential tools (e.g., predator management to increase elk populations), their likely biological effectiveness, as well as relevant policy, social, and economic considerations. I will provide an overview of these tools, focusing on those related to predator-prey dynamics.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1978/', ['Science Policy'], [u'Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations']]
[u'Do plant secondary metabolites help drive avian granivore seed selection?', ['Christopher J Whelan', 'Diya Majumdar', 'Joel S Brown', 'Amy E Hank', 'Andrea Iorgovan'], u'2016-04-21', u'Plant secondary metabolites (PSMs), found virtually universally throughout the plant kingdom, function in myriad ways, including defense against enemies, attraction of pollinators, communication between plants, and protection against various abiotic stressors. Extensive research has examined how PSMs mediate interactions between plants and herbivores and plant and frugivores. In contrast, little research has investigated their potential role in defense against granivores. In two seed selection experiments, we quantified seed preference of house sparrows and native granivores, respectively, when offered each of 10 native seeds and proso millet, a commercial bird seed. House sparrows and native granivores greatly preferred millet over all offered native seeds. House sparrows largely rejected seeds of all five wildflower species, but native granivores preferred three of the five wildflowers. House sparrows readily consumed seeds of all five native grass species, but native granivores rejected Canada rye. House sparrows and native granivores both rejected seeds of Illinois bundle flower. Although seed preferences in the non-native house sparrow and native granivores differed significantly, we have found no consistent relationship between seed selection and presence or absence of classes of plant secondary metabolites.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1977/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, University of Illinois at Chicago', u'Chicago Public Schools, Steinmetz Academic Centre High School']]
[u'Glyoxylate reductase as versatile enzymatic system for pharmaceutical and medical use', ['Jan Kutner', 'Ivan Shabalin', 'Dorota Matelska', 'Katarzyna B Handing', 'Olga Gasiorowska', 'Piotr Sroka', 'Krzysztof Ginalski', 'Wladek Minor', 'Krzysztof Wozniak'], u'2016-04-21', u'The chiral homogeneity of a chemical compound is the main prerequisite in safety and efficiency of drug substances and generation of single enantiomers of drug intermediates in pharmaceutical industry. Over the past several years there have been an increase wide variety of enzymes and bioengineered microorganisms used for biotransformation of chemicals with chemo- regio- and enantioselectivity. The direct evolution \u2013 a combination of biochemistry, molecular biology, structural biology and bioinformatics predictions can modulate enzyme stability, reactivity or substrate specificity. One example of enzymes used in pharmaceutical industry are enzymes from the D-2-hydroxyacid dehydrogenase (2HADH) family. They catalyze reversible reduction of 2-oxoacids to 2-hydroxyacids in an NAD(P)H dependent manner, playing a key role in metabolism of many organisms. One of the enzyme group from 2HADH family is glyoxylate reductase (GR). The advantages of these enzymes have been recently recognized by pharmaceutical and biotechnological industry, considering a possibility of highly stereospecific biotransformation of \u03b1-ketoacids into homochiral \u03b1-hydroxyacids, as important industrial intermediates. The glycolic acid, reduced by the enzyme into ethylene glycol, the smallest member of the \u03b1-hydroxy acid family, is nowadays obtained in a large-scale industrial process. The monomeric structure of the enzyme comprises two domains typical for NAD(P)-dependent dehydrogenases: the substrate-binding domain (SBD) and the nucleotide-binding domain (NBD). Several crystal X-ray structures of glyoxylate reductase from different species have been already solved, but only few of them were determined with the bound substrate and/or cofactor. Such structures are crucial in understanding the reaction mechanism and for predicting or designing the structures of new substrates for the enzyme. We will communicate the structural study of two homodimeric glyoxylate reductases from S. meliloti (SmGR1 and SmGR2). We have solved the crystal structures for SmGR1 and SmGR2 with bound oxalate and NADPH and compared them with the structures of other glyoxylate reductases subfamily members: from Rhizobium etli (with L(+)-tartaric acid and NADP) and human (with (2 R )-2,3-dihydroxypropanoic acid and NADPH). During the ligand and cofactor binding the catalytic domain rotates towards coenzyme-binding site, changing its structure from open to close conformation. Using biochemical tools and kinetics approaches we have also shown that Sm GR1 and Sm GR2 possess substrate specificity to hydroxypuryvate, hydroxylphenylpyruvate and gloxylate, providing new insights into the potential pharmaceutical and medical uses of this family of enzymes.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1976/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioinformatics', 'Biotechnology', 'Computational Biology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Biomacromolecular Research Laboratory, Biological and Chemical Research Centre, Department of Chemistry, University of Warsaw', u'Department of Molecular Physiology and Biological Physics, University of Virginia', u'Laboratory of Bioinformatics and Systems Biology, Centre of New Technologies, University of Warsaw']]
[u'Involvement of the mirror neuron system and the mentalizing system during communicative gesture production: a meta-analysis', ['Jie Yang'], u'2016-04-20', u'Background. Hand gestures play an important role in face-to-face communication. Although studies have shown that the mirror neuron system and the mentalizing system are involved in gesture comprehension, evidence of how the two systems are activated during gesture production is scattered and the conclusion is unclear. Methods. To address this issue, the current meta-analysis used activation likelihood estimation (ALE) method to quantitatively summarize the results of previous functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies on communicative gesture production. Eight studies were selected based on several criteria (e.g., using fMRI technique, involving healthy adults, using gesture production tasks, conducting whole-brain analysis, and reporting activation foci in the MNI or Talairach space). ALE was conducted to calculate the overall brain effects for gesture production, and subsequently the brain effects for gesture execution, planning, and imitation. Results. The meta-analysis results showed that overall both systems (inferior parietal lobule and medial cortical structures) were involved in gesture production. Further analyses indicated that the mirror neuron system and the primary motor cortex were selectively involved in gesture execution, whereas the menalizing system and the premotor cortex were selectively involved in gesture planning. In gesture imitation, significant effects were found in both systems. Discussion. These results suggest that the mirror neuron system and the mentalizing system play different roles during gesture production. The former may be involved in the processes that require the mapping between observed actions and motor representations or the retrieval of motor representations; whereas the later may be involved when the production tasks require understanding others\u2019 mental states.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1975/', ['Neuroscience', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Statistics'], [u'ARC Centre of Excellence in Cognition and its Disorders, Department of Cognitive Sciences, Macquarie University']]
[u'Deconvoluting simulated metagenomes: the performance of hard- and soft- clustering algorithms applied to metagenomic chromosome conformation capture (3C)', ['Matthew Z DeMaere', 'Aaron E Darling'], u'2016-04-20', u'Background. Chromosome conformation capture, coupled with high throughput DNA sequencing in protocols like Hi-C and 3C-seq, has been proposed as viable means to generate data to resolve the genomes of microorganisms living in naturally occuring environments. Metagenomic Hi-C and 3C-seq datasets have begun to emerge, but the feasibility of resolving genomes when closely related organisms (strain-level diversity) are present in the sample has not yet been systematically characterised. Methods. We developed a computational simulation pipeline for metagenomic 3C and Hi-C se- quencing to evaluate the accuracy of genomic reconstructions at, above, and below an operationally defined species boundary. We simulated datasets and measured accuracy over a wide range of parameters. Five clustering algorithms were evaluated (2 hard, 3 soft) using an adaptation of the extended B-cubed validation measure. Results. When all genomes in a sample are below 95% sequence identity, all of the tested clustering algorithms performed well. When sequence data contains genomes above 95% identity (our operational definition of strain-level diversity), a naive soft-clustering extension of the Louvain method achieves the highest performance. Discussion. Previously, only hard-clustering algorithms have been applied to metagenomic 3C and Hi-C data, yet none of these perform well when strain-level diversity exists in a metagenomic sample. Our simple extension of the Louvain method performed the best in these scenarios, however, accuracy remained well below the levels observed for samples without strain-level diversity. Strain resolution is also highly dependent on the amount of available 3C sequence data, suggesting that depth of sequencing must be carefully considered during experimental design. Finally, there appears to be great scope to improve the accuracy of strain resolution through further algorithm development.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1974/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology', 'Computational Science'], [u'ithree institute, University of Technology Sydney']]
[u'Association of potential salivary biomarkers with diabetic retinopathy and its severity in type-2 diabetes mellitus: a proteomic analysis by mass spectrometry', ['Chin Soon Chee', 'Khai Meng Chang', 'Mun Fai Loke', 'Voon Pei Angela Loo', 'Visvaraja Subrayan'], u'2016-04-19', u'Aim/hypothesis The aim of our study was to characterize the human salivary proteome and determine the changes in protein expression in 2 different stages of diabetic retinopathy with type-2 diabetes mellitus: (1) with non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy (NPDR) and (2) with proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR). Type-2 diabetes without diabetic retinopathy (XDR) was designated as control. Method In this study, 45 saliva samples were collected (15 samples from XDR control group, 15 samples from NPDR disease group and 15 samples from PDR disease group). Salivary proteins were extracted, reduced, alkylated, trypsin digested and labeled with iTRAQ before analyzing by Orbitrap fusion tribrid mass spectrometer. Proteins annotation, fold change calculation and statistical analysis were interrogated by Proteome Discoverer. Biological pathway analysis was performed by Ingenuity Pathway Analysis. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifiers PXD003723-PX003725. Results A total of 315 proteins were identified from the salivary proteome and 119 proteins were found to be differentially expressed. The differentially expressed proteins from the NPDR disease group and the PDR disease group were assigned to respective canonical pathways indicating increased LXR/RXR activation, FXR/RXR activation, acute phase response signaling, sucrose degradation V and regulation of actin-based motility by Rho in the PDR disease group compared to the NPDR disease group Conclusions/Interpretation Progression from non-proliferative to proliferative retinopathy in type-2 diabetic patients is a complex multi-mechanism and systemic process. Furthermore, saliva was shown to be a feasible alternative sample source for diabetic retinopathy biomarkers.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1973/', ['Biochemistry', 'Diabetes and Endocrinology', 'Ophthalmology'], [u'Department of Ophthalmology, University of Malaya', u'Department of Medical Microbiology/ Faculty of Medicine, University of Malaya']]
[u'Towards stable caribou populations in Alberta: Considering resource selection by wolves, grizzly bears, and caribou to prioritize restoration of legacy seismic lines', ['Doug MacNearney', 'Karine E Pigeon', 'Jerome Cranston', 'Gordon Stenhouse', 'Laura Finnegan'], u'2016-04-19', u'Throughout their range, the decline of woodland caribou populations is thought to be a result of habitat degradation and fragmentation from industrial activities. Land managers are under pressure to restore habitat within caribou ranges and mitigate potential negative effects of resource extraction on caribou into the future. Considering the historical anthropogenic footprint in Alberta, restoration efforts need to be prioritized. Using a combination of LiDAR and animal GPS data, we investigated the influence of vegetation height on the selection of seismic lines, and the zone of influence of these features on grizzly bears, wolves, and caribou within four caribou ranges in west-central Alberta. Our objective was to integrate the influence of vegetation height on seismic lines, seismic line density, and the zone of influence of these seismic lines on caribou and their predators to identify areas with the highest probability of overlap among grizzly bears, wolves, and caribou to prioritize restoration of legacy seismic lines in Alberta and increase functional habitat for caribou. Based on LiDAR, the average vegetation height of 12,854 km (83%) of seismic lines was less than 1.5 m while 2,392 km (15%) of seismic lines had a vegetation height between 1.5 m and 5 m, and 341 km (2%) of seismic lines had an average vegetation height greater than 5 m. Animal responses to seismic lines varied seasonally and were dependent on regeneration stage. This research highlights predator-prey interactions on a managed landscape and how our knowledge of these mechanisms is essential to effectively prioritize restoration.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1972/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Conservation Biology'], [u'Caribou Program, fRI Research', u'Arctos Ecological Consultants', u'fRI Research Grizzly Bear Program']]
[u'MOST: A modified MLST typing tool based on short read sequencing', ['Rediat Tewolde', 'Timothy Dallman', 'Ulf Schaefer', 'Carmen L Sheppard', 'Philip Ashton', 'Bruno Pichon', 'Matthew Ellington', 'Craig Swift', 'Jonathan Green', 'Anthony Underwood'], u'2016-04-19', u'Multilocus sequence typing (MLST) is an effective method to describe bacterial populations. Conventionally, MLST involves Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR)amplification of housekeeping genes followed by Sanger DNA sequencing. Public Health England (PHE) is in the process of replacing the conventional MLST methodology with a method based on short read sequence data derived from Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS). This paper reports the comparison of the reliability of MLST results derived from WGS data, comparing mapping and assembly-based approaches to conventional methods using 325 bacterial genomes of diverse species. The sensitivity of the two WGS based methods were further investigated with 26 mixed and 29 low coverage genomic data sets from Salmonella enteridis and Streptococcus pneumoniae. Of the 325 samples, 92.9% (n=302), 97.2% (n=316) and 99.7% (n=324) full MLST profiles were derived by the conventional method, assembly- and mapping-based approaches, respectively. The concordance between samples that were typed by conventional (92.9%) and both WGS methods was 100%. From the 55 mixed and low coverage genomes, 90.9% (n=50) and 67.3% (n=37) full MLST profiles were derived from the mapping and assembly based approaches, respectively. In conclusion, deriving MLST from WGS data is more sensitive than the conventional method. When comparing WGS based methods, the mapping based approach was the most sensitive. In addition, the mapping based approach described here derives quality metrics, which are difficult to determine quantitatively using conventional and WGS-assembly based approaches.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1971/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Microbiology'], [u'Infectious Disease Informatics Unit, Public Health England', u'Gastrointestinal Bacteria Reference Unit, Public Health England', u'Respiratory and Vaccine Preventable Bacteria Reference Unit, Public Health England', u'Antimicrobial Resistance and Healthcare Associated Infection unit, Public Health England']]
[u'Effect of fragmentation on the Costa Rican dry forest avifauna', ['Gilbert Barrantes', 'Diego Ocampo', 'Jose D. Ramirez-Fernandez', 'Eric J Fuchs'], u'2016-04-19', u'Deforestation and land use change have reduced the tropical dry forest in the northwestern region of Costa Rica into isolated fragments. We examined the effect of fragment area and length of the dry season (seasonality) on nestedness for the community (entire species matrix), assemblages (forest fragments), and species occupancy across fragments for the native avifauna, and for a subset of forest dependent species. Area or distance between fragments did not correlate with species richness across fragments. Similarity in bird community composition between fragments was related with habitat structure; fragments with similar forest structure have higher similarity in their avifaunas. Fragment area determined the pattern of nestedness of the bird community and species occupancy, but not the nestedness of assemblages across fragments in northwestern Costa Rican avifauna. Forest dependent species (species that require large tracts of mature forest) and assemblages of these species were nested along forest fragments ranked by seasonality gradient, but only occupancy of species nested by fragment area.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1970/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Escuela de Biolog\xeda, Universidad de Costa Rica']]
[u'Experimental evidence for concentration-dependence and intra-specific variation of movement behaviour in American lobster (Homarus americanus) larvae', ['Eric J Pedersen', 'Ryan R.E. Stanley', 'Paul V.R. Snelgrove', 'Frederic Guichard'], u'2016-04-19', u'Predicting dispersal paths of marine larvae with long pelagic durations, such as American lobster (Homarus americanus), requires understanding the cues to which larvae respond, and how that response reflects changes in larval behaviour. If larvae respond to conspecific presence by varying their movement, this behaviour can bias laboratory estimates of environmental responses. We tested whether larvae actively decreased their local intraspecific density by measuring how the vertical distribution of larvae changed under high versus low concentrations of conspecifics. We observed weak increases in vertical dispersion at higher concentrations in both newly-hatched larvae and in post-larvae, but not in intermediate larval stages. Further, we found that larvae from different mothers consistently differed in vertical distribution, which may indicate maternal effects on dispersal behavior. We also tested for differences in horizontal swimming behaviour in high and low concentrations, by fitting a novel random walk model that allowed us to model both larval interactions and persistent turning behaviours. We showed substantial reduction in diffusive behaviour under high concentration conditions resulting from more frequent turns by each larva, but no evidence for consistent avoidance of conspecifics. Our study is the first to demonstrate concentration-dependent behaviours in lobster larvae.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1969/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Biology, McGill University', u'Center for Limnology, University of Wisconsin-Madison', u'Department of Fisheries and Oceans Canada, Bedford Institute of Oceangraphy', u'Department of Ocean Sciences, Memorial Univerity']]
[u'A mathematical theory of knowledge, science, bias and pseudoscience', ['Daniele Fanelli'], u'2016-04-19', u'This essay unifies key epistemological concepts in a consistent mathematical framework built on two postulates: 1-information is finite; 2-knowledge is information compression. Knowledge is expressed by a function \\( K(Y;X) \\) and two fundamental operations, \\( \\oplus, \\otimes \\). This \\( K \\) function possesses fundamental properties that are intuitively ascribed to knowledge: it embodies Occam\'s razor, has one optimal level of accuracy, and declines with distance in time. Empirical knowledge differs from logico-deductive knowledge solely in having measurement error and therefore a "chaos horizon". The \\( K \\) function characterizes knowledge as a cumulation and manipulation of patterns. It allows to quantify the amount of knowledge gained by experience and to derive conditions that favour the increase of knowledge complexity. Scientific knowledge operates exactly as ordinary knowledge, but its patterns are conditioned on a "methodology" component. Analysis of scientific progress suggests that classic Popperian falsificationism only occurs under special conditions that are rarely realised in practice, and that reproducibility failures are virtually inevitable. Scientific "softness" is simply an encoding of weaker patterns, which are simultaneously cause and consequence of higher complexity of subject matter and methodology. Bias consists in information that is concealed in ante-hoc or post-hoc methodological choices. Disciplines typically classified as pseudosciences are sciences expressing extreme bias and therefore yield \\( K(Y;X) \\leq 0 \\). All knowledge-producing activities can be ranked in terms of a parameter \\(\\Xi \\in (-\\infty,\\infty) \\), measured in bits, which subsumes all quantities defined in the essay.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1968/', ['Computational Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Science Policy', 'Statistics', 'Computational Science'], [u'Meta-Research Innovation Center at Stanford (METRICS), Stanford University']]
[u'Moose refugia from predation by wolves near mines in the Athabasca oil sands', ['Eric Neilson', 'Stan Boutin'], u'2016-04-19', u'Areas near human disturbance may become prey refugia when predators avoid human activities more than their prey leading to decreased predation rates and/or increased prey population growth. Alberta\u2019s Athabasca oil sands region (AOSR) is home to moose (Alces alces) and wolf (Canis lupus) populations and is characterized by extensive human disturbance including open pit mines, tailings ponds and industrial facilities. We examined the extent to which moose could be released from predation near Alberta\u2019s Athabasca oil sands due to wolf avoidance of mining infrastructure. Using moose and wolves GPS telemetry, we compared the use of natural habitats and distance to mining features to the availability of these variables. We split mining features into high human-use facilities and low human-use pit mines and tailings ponds. We binned distance to mining features variables into distance buffers covering the range of moose home range diameters resulting in buffers of < 2.5 km, 2.5-5 km and 5-10 km. Moose models included an interaction between distance to mining features buffers and the distribution of wolves to assess whether moose exposure to wolves varies with proximity to human activity. We compared a habitat model including forest cover type, streams and rivers to a disturbance model using AIC. The model fitting habitat and distance to facilities was top-ranked for both species. Moose selection for areas near facilities was higher than wolves. Wolves avoided areas within 10 and 5 km of facilities but exhibited an equivocal response within 2.5 km. Moose exposure to wolves increased with distance to mines indicating that use of areas in proximity to human disturbance releases moose from predation by wolves. Human induced prey refugia could increase moose population growth and increase human-moose conflict. Additionally, moose dispersal out of the refuge areas could produce subsequent increases in the wolf population.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1967/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Biological Sciences, University of Alberta']]
[u'Phage on Tap \u2013 A quick and efficient protocol for the preparation of bacteriophage laboratory stocks', ['Natasha Bonilla', 'Maria Isabel Rojas', 'Giuliano Netto Flores Cruz', 'Shr-Hau Hung', 'Forest Rohwer', 'Jeremy J Barr'], u'2016-04-19', u'A major limitation with traditional phage preparations is the variability in titer, salts, and bacterial contaminants between successive propagations. Here we introduce the Phage On Tap (PoT) protocol for the quick and efficient preparation of homogenous bacteriophage (phage) stocks. This method produces homogenous, laboratory-scale, high titer (up to 1010-11 PFU\u2219ml-1), endotoxin reduced phage banks that can be used to eliminate the variability between phage propagations and improve the molecular characterizations of phage. The method consists of five major parts, including phage propagation, phage clean up by 0.22 \xb5m filtering and chloroform treatment, phage concentration by ultrafiltration, endotoxin removal, and the preparation and storage of phage banks for continuous laboratory use. From a starting liquid lysate of >100 mL, the PoT protocol generated a clean, homogenous, laboratory phage bank with a phage recovery efficiency of 85% within just two days. In contrast, the traditional method took upwards of five days to produce a high titer, but lower volume phage stock with a recovery efficiency of only 4%. Phage banks can be further purified for the removal of bacterial endotoxins, reducing endotoxin concentrations by over 3,000-fold while maintaining phage titer. The PoT protocol focused on T-like phages, but is broadly applicable to a variety of phages that can be propagated to sufficient titer, producing homogenous, high titer phage banks that are applicable for molecular and cellular assays.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1966/', ['Microbiology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Virology'], [u'Department of Biology, San Diego State University']]
[u'The influence of physical exercise and sports on telomere length - A model for telomere length and telomerase activity regulation based on a comparative assessment of literature', ['Paul F Lang', 'Kai-Uwe Frohlich'], u'2016-04-19', u'Based upon a comprehensive analysis of current literature and by combining a molecular biology and a sports science perspective, this review examines (1) if a correlation between physical activity load and telomere length (TL) exists, and (2) comprehensively analyses and integrates molecular pathways regulating exercise dependent TL dynamics. The focus is on TL in leukocytes and muscle tissue in middle to advanced aged subjects. Regarding item (1), a strong tendency for an increase in mean leukocyte TL was found for exercise energy expenditures up to about 2\u2219103 kcal/week, while for higher activity levels no conclusive statement can be made. Conversely, research on skeletal muscle TL so far is quite limited but suggests that physical exercise with prolonged eccentric muscle contractions rather acts to shorten telomeres, while sports with little eccentric contractions might rather act to lengthen telomeres. As to item (2), a model for hypothetical pathways for exercise dependent telomerase activity regulation is proposed by consolidating findings of different studies in different cells. Consistent with this pathway model, various studies report increased telomerase transcription or activation by exercise. Moreover, a qualitative overall model for endurance exercise related TL dynamics is presented. It considers telomeres as dynamic structures in equilibrium between telomere shortening (e.g., cellular turnover, oxidative stress, inflammation) and telomere lengthening (e.g., telomerase activity, telomerase recruitment) effects. A negative feedback-loop mediated by enhanced telomerase recruitment to short telomeres is assumed to counteract too excessive TL alterations. Finally, a proposal is put forth for future research on exercise dependent telomere dynamics by adopting a systems biology approach to develop mathematical models that properly integrate the complexity of the interacting variables.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1965/', ['Biochemistry', 'Molecular Biology', 'Geriatrics', 'Public Health'], [u'Department of Biology, ETH Z\xfcrich', u'Institute of Molecular Biosciences, Universit\xe4t Graz']]
