[u'Reinstatement of Pedicularis delavayi (Orobanchaceae): a species separating from P. siphonantha revealed by phylogenetic analyses', ['Wen-Bin Yu', 'Hong Wang', 'Min-Lu Liu', 'Alisa E. Grabovskaya', 'De-Zhu Li'], u'2016-12-18', u'Background. Morphological identification of Pedicularis depends on floral characters because interspecific variations these characters is very large. However, some important characters may be lost during the process of pressing the specimen. Pedicularis delavayi was described from Lijiang, northwestern Yunnan, and it was widely adopted as a variety of P. siphonantha. Unfortunately, the name \u201cP. siphonantha var. delavayi\u2019 incorrectly referred to P. milliana/P. tenuituba in some identified specimens and publications. Moreover, phylogenetic relationships between P. delavayi and P. siphonantha and its allies (P. millana and P. tenuituba) were not fully resolved. Methods. In total, we sampled 75 individuals representing 56 taxa. Of them, 10 taxa were from P. siphonantha group, and 11 individuals of P. delavayi represented 9 populations. One nuclear gene (nrITS) and four chloroplast genes/regions (matK, rbcL, trnH-psbA, and trnL-F) were sequenced for phylogenetic analyses. The nrITS and plastid datasets were combined to analyze. Bayesian Inference (BI) and Maximum Likelihood (ML) methods were used to reconstruct phylogenetic trees. Species identification, morphological comparison and line drawing were based on field observation, dried herbarium specimens and FFA-fixed samples. Results. Phylogenetic analyses showed that the P. siphonantha group was polyphyletic: monophyletic P. delavayi, sister to P. obliquigaleata, fell into clade A; and the remaining species of P. siphonantha group was in clade B as monophyletic (i.e. P. siphonantha lineage). In the P. siphonantha lineage, P. milliana, P. siphonantha, and P. tenuituba (= P. siphonantha var. stictochila) were well supported as monophyletic, and P. dolichosiphon (\u2261 P. siphonantha var. dolichosiphon) was sister to P. leptosiphon. Morphologically, P. delavayi differs from species of the P. siphonantha lineage in having a long petiole (~ 50 mm) and pedicel (~ 40 mm), a ridged corolla tube, and a folded lower-lip of the corolla. Discussion. Phylogenetic analyses showed evolution of P. delavayi was independent from the P. siphonantha lineage. The long-tubular corollas in P. delavayi and P. siphonantha lineage might be a convergent character. Both morphological and phylogenetic evidence strongly supported to reinstate P. delavayi as an independent species. In addition, P. neolatituba was proposed to reduce as a new synonymy of P. delavayi.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2645/', ['Biodiversity', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Plant Science', 'Taxonomy'], [u'Center of Intergrative, Xishuangbanna Tropical Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences', u'Key Laboratory for Plant Diversity and Biogeography of East Asia, Kunming Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences', u'Plant Germplasm and Genomics Center, Germplasm Bank of Wild Specie, Kunming Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences', u'Komarov Botanical Institute']]
[u'Ca2+ dynamics in zebrafish hyper-dorsalization of congenital anomaly', ['Yusuke Tsuruwaka', 'Eriko Shimada'], u'2016-12-18', u'Intracellular calcium ion (Ca2+) signaling is deeply involved in development, as demonstrated by the use of various Ca2+ sensors. Ca2+ patterns in wildtype and mutant zebrafish have been reported to date, however, not many zebrafish embryos with congenital anomaly have been studied yet. In the present study, we monitored serial Ca2+ levels of zebrafish embryos which showed inborn hyper-dorsalization using Ca2+ sensor, yellow cameleon, YC2.12. Our results showed clearly elevated Ca2+ levels in the presumptive dorsal part during gastrula period and in the dorsal region during segmentation period. The results suggested that monitoring Ca2+ levels may help to anticipate the region which influences a fate determination prior to morphogenesis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2644/', ['Developmental Biology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Marine Bioresource Exploration Research Group, Japan Agency for Marine-Earth Science and Technology (JAMSTEC)', u'Department of Animal Science, University of California, Davis', u'Cellevolt']]
