[u'The Durand Adaptive Psychopathic Traits Questionnaire: development and preliminary validation', ['Guillaume Durand'], u'2016-05-26', u'In recent decades, psychopathic personality has become synonym to a pervasive personality disorder characterized by a lack of empathy, callousness, impulsivity, social deviance and aggressive behavior. However, evidences point to the existence of another form of psychopathy, which involves adaptive traits such as stress and anxiety immunity, remarkable social skills, noteworthy leadership ability, and an absence of fear. The newly developed Durand Adaptive Psychopathic Traits Questionnaire (DAPTQ) aims to assess adaptive traits known to correlate with the psychopathic personality. Validation of the questionnaire among 765 individuals from the community gave support for a 4-factor solution within the DAPTQ: Extroverted Leading, Rational Thinking, Risk Taking, and Composure. The DAPTQ and its four subscales demonstrated high internal consistency in a community sample (0.78 - 0.88) and in a clinical sample (0.79 - 0.90). Good convergent and divergent validity was established by administering the DAPTQ alongside established measures of psychopathic personality. Subscales validation against well-established personality assessments further confirm the DAPTQ\u2019s strength. These findings indicate that the DAPTQ is a reliable and valid tool for measuring psychopathy-associated adaptive traits. Limitations of the present study and potential directives for future research are also discussed. Further studies are needed to validate the DAPTQ and its subscales against a wider range of personality traits and behaviors.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2081/', ['Cognitive Disorders', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Department of Clinical Psychological Science, Faculty of Psychology and Neuropsychology, University of Maastricht']]
[u'Tree seedling establishment among C4 grasses', ['Edmund C February', 'Joel R Lewis'], u'2016-05-26', u'The coexistence of leguminous trees and C4 grasses in African savanna remains poorly understood. Trees are able to establish among grasses despite grasses being competitively superior for below ground resources. Here we test the hypothesis that trees are only able to establish when grass biomass has been reduced. We do this at four locations in Limpopo Province South Africa where we locate young seedlings of Senegalia nigrescens. Where we found seedlings we determine grass species composition as well as grass percentage canopy cover, height above ground, and root length. We also make determinations of grass characteristics at two locations where we found no seedlings. For seedlings we determine rooting depth, plant height and stem diameter. To confirm that these are indeed young seedlings, less than a year old, we compare root length and plant height with that of seedlings germinated and grown for 77 days in a greenhouse. Our results show that where seedlings are present grasses are dominated by short-lived species such as Aristida congesta and Enneapogan cenchroides. These species are often found in disturbed soils and would increase with overgrazing. On those sites with no seedlings grass species composition is dominated by perennial species such as Panicum maximum, Panicum coloratum and Cenchrus ciliarus that would decrease with overgrazing and/or repeated burning. The perennial species have a 90-100% canopy cover while the short-lived species have a much lower canopy cover of less than 50%. Within 77 days of germinating tree seedlings are able to develop a root system that is deeper than the short-lived grasses but not deeper than the perennial grasses. These results demonstrate that tree seedlings are only able to establish among grasses if there are gaps in both grass canopy and root mass resulting from increased herbivory, frequent fire or extended drought.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2080/', ['Ecology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, University of Cape Town']]
[u'Hypothesis generating model-based wearable clinical trial', ['Benjamin C Kirkup'], u'2016-05-26', u'Wearable physiological sensors have the projected capability to detect unknown and unreported health conditions. Development requires rounds of discovery-oriented human subject research and confirmatory clinical trials. However, each study is a significant investment and difficult to justify in isolation. This impasse requires bootstrapping spiral device development through hypothesis-generating, model-based clinical trials. An unconventional clinical trial design addresses environmental health and infectious disease, through the day-to-day observation of diverse people who occupy a shared environment. The design utilizes a flexible suite of developmental diagnostic devices to detect the physiological impact of exposures. Through advanced data analysis, the devices provide information about deviations from normal parameters for each human subject. The correlation of these anomalies across the entire cohort generates hypotheses about exposures that impact health. These hypotheses can be investigated further in targeted studies and lead to simultaneous refinement of the devices.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2079/', ['Clinical Trials', 'Epidemiology', 'Infectious Diseases', 'Public Health', 'Ethical Issues'], [u'CBMSE, US Naval Research Laboratory']]
[u'Quantifying spatial patterns of grass response to nutrient additions using empirical and neutral semivariogram models', ['Erica A.H. Smithwick', 'Douglas C. Baldwin', 'Kusum J. Naithani'], u'2016-05-26', u'Disturbances influence vegetation patterns at multiple scales, but studies that isolate the effect of scale are rare, meaning that scale and process are often confounded. To explore this, we imposed a large (~3.75 ha) experiment in a South African coastal grassland ecosystem to determine the spatial scale of grass response to nutrient additions. In two of six 60 x 60 m grassland plots, we imposed nutrient additions using a scaled sampling design in which fertilizer was added in replicated sub-plots of varying sizes (1 x 1 m, 2 x 2 m, and 4 x 4 m). The remaining plots either received no additions, or were fertilized evenly across the entire plot area. We calculated empirical semi-variograms for all plots one year following nutrient additions to determine whether the scale of grass response (biomass and nutrient concentrations) corresponded to the scale of the sub-plot additions and compared these results to reference plots (unfertilized or unscaled). In addition, we calculated semi-variograms from a series of simulated landscapes generated using random or structured patterns (neutral models) and compared the semivariogram parameters between simulated and empirical landscapes. Results from the empirical semivariograms showed that there was greater spatial structure in plots that received additions at sub-plot scales, with range values that were closest to the 2 x 2 m grain. These results were in agreement with simulated semivariograms using neutral models, supporting the notion that our empirical results were not confounded by random effects. Overall, our results highlight that neutral models can be combined with empirical semivariograms to identify multi-scalar ecological patterns and this hybrid approach should be used more widely in ecological studies.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2078/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science'], [u'Department of Geography and Intercollege Graduate Degree Program in Ecology, The Pennsylvania State University', u'Department of Geography, The Pennsylvania State University', u'Department of Biological Sciences, University of Arkansas']]
[u'Parameter estimation in tree graph metabolic networks', ['Laura Astola', 'Hans Stigter', 'Maria Victoria Gomez Roldan', 'Fred van Eeuwijk', 'Robert D Hall', 'Marian Groenenboom', 'Jaap J. Molenaar'], u'2016-05-26', u'We study the glycosylation processes that convert initially toxic substrates to nutritionally valuable metabolites in the flavonoid biosynthesis pathway of tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) seedlings. To estimate the reaction rates we use ordinary differential equations (ODEs) to model the enzyme kinetics. A popular choice is to use a system of linear ODEs with constant kinetic rates or to use Michaelis-Menten kinetics. In reality, the catalytic rates, which are affected among other factors by kinetic constants and enzyme concentrations, are changing in time and with the approaches just mentioned, this phenomenon cannot be described. Another problem is that, in general these kinetic coefficients are not always identifiable. A third problem is that, it is not precisely known, which enzymes are catalyzing the observed glycosylation processes. With several hundred potential gene candidates, experimental validation using purified target proteins is expensive and time consuming. We aim at reducing this task via mathematical modeling to allow for the pre-selection of most potential gene candidates. In this article we discuss a fast and relatively simple approach to estimate time varying kinetic rates, with three favorable properties: Firstly, it allows for identifiable estimation of time dependent parameters in networks with a tree-like structure. Secondly, it is very fast compared to the usually applied methods, since it is not based on an iterative scheme. Thirdly, by combining the metabolite concentration data with a corresponding microarray data, it can help in detecting the genes related to the enzymatic processes. By comparing the estimated time dynamics of the catalytic rates with time series gene expression data we may assess potential candidate genes behind enzymatic reactions. As an example, we show how to apply this method to select prominent glycosyltransferase genes in tomato seedlings.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2077/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Computational Biology', 'Food Science and Technology', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of Biomedical Engineering, Eindhoven University of Technology', u'Department of Mathematics and Statistics, Wageningen University and Research Centre', u'Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, Institute of Plant Sciences Paris-Saclay', u'Plant Research Intenational - Bioscience, Wageningen University and Research Centre', u'Biometris, Department for Mathematical and Statistical Methods, Wageningen University, Wageningen University']]
[u'A multifunctional GH39 glycoside hydrolase from the anaerobic gut fungus Orpinomyces sp. strain C1A', ['Jessica M Morrison', 'Mostafa S Elshahed', 'Noha Youssef'], u'2016-05-26', u'Background. The anaerobic gut fungi (phylum Neocallimastigomycota) represent a promising source of novel lignocellulolytic enzymes. Here, we report on the cloning, expression, and characterization of a glycoside hydrolase family 39 (GH39) enzyme (Bgxg1) that is highly transcribed by the anaerobic fungus Orpinomyces sp. strain C1A under different growth conditions. This represents the first study of a GH39-family enzyme from the anaerobic fungi. Methods. Using enzyme activity assays, we performed a biochemical characterization of Bgxg1 on a variety of substrates over a wide range of pH and temperature values to identify the optimal enzyme conditions and the specificity of the enzyme. In addition, substrate competition studies and comparative modeling efforts were completed. Results. Contrary to the narrow range of activities (\u03b2-xylosidase or \u03b1-L-iduronidase) observed in previously characterized GH39 enzymes, Bgxg1 is unique in that it is multifunctional, exhibiting strong \u03b2-xylosidase, \u03b2-glucosidase, \u03b2-galactosidase activities (11.5 \xb1 1.2, 73.4 \xb1 7.15, and 54.6 \xb1 2.26 U/mg, respectively) and a weak xylanase activity (10.8 \xb1 1.25 U/mg), strength determined as compared to previously characterized enzymes. Physiological characterization revealed that Bgxg1 is active over a wide range of pH (3-8, optimum 6) and temperatures (25-60\xb0C, optimum 39\xb0C), and possesses excellent temperature and thermal stability. Substrate competition assays suggest that all observed activities occur at a single active site. Using comparative modeling and bioinformatics approaches, we putatively identified ten amino acid differences between Bgxg1 and previously biochemically characterized GH39 \u03b2-xylosidases that we speculate could impact active site architecture, size, charge, and/or polarity. The putative contributions of these changes to the observed relaxed specificities in Bgxg1 are discussed. Discussion. Collectively, the unique capabilities and multi-functionality of Bgxg1 render it an excellent candidate for inclusion in enzyme cocktails mediating cellulose and hemicellulose saccharification from lignocellulosic biomass.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2076/', ['Biochemistry', 'Biotechnology', 'Microbiology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, Oklahoma State University']]
