[u'Elucidating the diet and foraging ecology of the island flying fox (Pteropus hypomelanus) in Peninsular Malaysia through Illumina Next-Generation Sequencing', ['Sheema Abdul Aziz', 'Gopalasamy Reuben Clements', 'Lee Yin Peng', 'Ahimsa Campos-Arceiz', 'Kim R McConkey', 'Pierre-Michel A.A. Forget', 'Han Ming Gan'], u'2016-10-22', u'There is an urgent need to identify and understand the ecosystem services provided by threatened animal species such as flying foxes. The first step towards this is to obtain comprehensive data on their diet. However, the volant and nocturnal nature of flying foxes presents a challenging situation, and conventional microhistological approaches to studying their diet can be laborious and time-consuming, and provide incomplete information. We used Illumina Next-Generation Sequencing (NGS) as a novel, non-invasive method for analysing the diet of the island flying fox (Pteropus hypomelanus) on Tioman Island, Peninsular Malaysia. Through NGS analysis of flying fox droppings over eight months, we identified at least 29 Operationally Taxonomic Units comprising the diet of this giant pteropodid, spanning 19 genera and 18 different plant families, including one new family not previously recorded for pteropodid diet. NGS was just as successful as conventional microhistological analysis in detecting plant taxa from droppings, but also uncovered six additional plant taxa. The island flying fox\u2019s diet appeared to be dominated by figs (Ficus sp.), which was the most abundant plant taxon detected in the droppings every single month. Our study has shown that NGS can add value to the conventional microhistological approach in identifying food plant species from flying fox droppings. However, accurate and detailed identification requires a comprehensive database of the relevant plant DNA, which may require collection of botanical specimens from the study site. Although this method cannot be used to quantify true abundance or proportion of plant species, nor plant parts consumed, it ultimately provides a very important first step towards identifying plant taxa in pteropodid diet.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2547/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Genetics'], [u'Rimba', u'D\xe9partement \xc9cologie et Gestion de la Biodiversit\xe9, UMR 7179 CNRS-MNHN, Mus\xe9um National d\u2019Histoire Naturelle', u'School of Geography, The University of Nottingham Malaysia Campus', u'School of Science, Monash University Malaysia', u'Kenyir Research Institute, Universiti Malaysia Terengganu', u'Tropical Medicine and Biology Platform, Monash University Malaysia', u'School of Environmental and Geographical Sciences, The University of Nottingham Malaysia Campus', u'School of Natural Sciences and Engineering, National Institute of Advanced Studies']]
[u'Information extraction and transparency in big data processing', ['Ieuan Clay'], u'2016-10-21', u'Developing new endpoints for mobility is an important strategic aim for many groups both in industry and academia and the focus of a growing field. Bringing those novel endpoints to health authority acceptance for clinical decision making will require a concerted effort from this research community. This in turn will require openness and transparency; sharing data, methods and findings. Here we discuss challenges within the field to such an open approach and give examples of how they might be overcome.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2546/', ['Clinical Trials', 'Evidence Based Medicine', 'Translational Medicine', 'Computational Science'], [u'Translational Medicine, Novartis Institutes for Biomedical Research']]
[u'Multiple stressors threaten an important coastal foundation species', ['Jonathan S Lefcheck', 'David J Wilcox', 'Rebecca R Murphy', 'Scott R Marion', 'Robert J Orth'], u'2016-10-21', u'Interactions among global change stressors and their effects at large scales are often proposed but seldom evaluated, in part due to lack of comprehensive, sufficiently long-term, and spatially-extensive datasets. Seagrasses, which provide nursery habitat, improve water quality, and constitute a globally-important carbon sink, are among the most vulnerable habitats on the planet. Here, we unite 31-years of high-resolution aerial monitoring and water quality data to elucidate the patterns and drivers of eelgrass (Zostera marina) abundance in Chesapeake Bay, USA, one of the largest and most valuable estuaries in the world, with an unparalleled history of regulatory efforts. We show that eelgrass cover has declined 29% in total since 1991, with wide-ranging and severe ecological and economic consequences. We go on to identify an interaction between decreasing water clarity and warming temperatures as the primary driver of this trend. Declining clarity has gradually reduced eelgrass over the past two decades, primarily in deeper beds where light is already limiting. In shallow beds, however, reduced visibility exacerbates the physiological stress of acute warming, leading to recent instances of decline approaching 80%. While degraded water quality has long been known to influence underwater grasses worldwide, we demonstrate a clear and rapidly emerging interaction with climate change. We highlight the urgent need to integrate a broader perspective into local water quality management, in the Chesapeake Bay and in the many other coastal systems facing similar stressors.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2544/', ['Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, Virginia Institute of Marine Science, The College of William & Mary', u'Center for Environmental Science, Chesapeake Bay Program, University of Maryland', u'Marine Resources Program, Oregon Department of Fish & Wildlife']]
[u'Hypothesis on Serenoa repens (Bartram) small extract inhibition of prostatic 5\u03b1-reductase through an in silico approach on 5\u03b2-reductase x-ray structure', ['Paolo Governa', 'Daniela Giachetti', 'Marco Biagi', 'Fabrizio Manetti', 'Luca De Vico'], u'2016-10-21', u'Benign prostatic hyperplasia is a common disease in men aged over 50 years old, with an incidence increasing to more than 80% over the age of 70, that is increasingly going to attract pharmaceutical interest. Within conventional therapies, such as \u03b1-adrenoreceptor antagonists and 5\u03b1-reductase inhibitor, there is a large requirement for treatments with less adverse events on, e.g., blood pressure and sexual function: phytotherapy may be the right way to fill this need. Serenoa repens standardized extract has been widely studied and its ability to reduce lower urinary tract symptoms related to benign prostatic hyperplasia is comprehensively described in literature. An innovative investigation on the mechanism of inhibition of 5\u03b1-reductase by Serenoa repens extract active principles is proposed in this work through computational methods, performing molecular docking simulations on the crystal structure of human liver 5\u03b2-reductase. The results confirm that both sterols and fatty acids can play a role in the inhibition of the enzyme, thus, suggesting a competitive mechanism of inhibition. This work proposes a further confirmation for the rational use of herbal products in the management of benign prostatic hyperplasia, and suggests computational methods as an innovative, low cost, and non-invasive process for the study of phytocomplex activity toward proteic targets.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2543/', ['Computational Biology', 'Pharmacology'], [u'Department of Physical Sciences, Earth and Environment, University of Siena', u'Department of Chemistry, University of Copenhagen', u'Department of Biotechnology, Chemistry and Pharmacy, University of Siena']]
[u'Mouse sperm delivery via cauda epididymis without transport medium', ['Man-Xi Jiang', 'Mei-Shan Wang', 'Xiang-Hong Ou', 'Xue-Jin Chen', 'Yan Zhu'], u'2016-10-21', u'This study was aimed to investigate the effects of room temperature (RT, 20-25 oC) and absence of medium during cauda epididymis transport on spermatozoa quality, fertility and embryo development. In the first experiment, fresh sperm from one side of cauda epididymis was used for in vitro fertilization, and another side was delivered at RT or 4-8 oC either with or without M2. In the second experiment, each side of cauda epididymis obtained from the same mouse was individually delivered at RT or 4 oC with or without M2. Finally, sperm motility, progressive motility scores and fertility of fresh spermatozoa or those from transported cauda epididymis, and IVF embryo development were evaluated. Progressive motility scores and fertilization rates were higher in fresh spermatozoa than transported sperm; sperm motility of transported cauda epididymis at 4-8 oC was comparable to fresh spermatozoa, but spermatozoa motility of transported cauda epididymis at RT was inferior to fresh spermatozoa. Spermatozoa motillty of transported cauda epididymis at 4-8 oC with transport medium was much higher than that without transport medium; absence of transport medium did not affect sperm motility of transported cauda epididymis at 4-8 oC but affected sperm motility of transported cauda epididymis at RT. Sperm quality from transported cauda epididymis can be efficiently kept at 4-8 oC, and cauda epididymis transport at 4-8 oC without M2 is more beneficial on keeping their fertility. Moreover cauda epididymis transport at RT without medium could sufficiently produce embryos for obtainning live offsprings.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2542/', ['Biotechnology', 'Developmental Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Human Reproductive Centre, Guangdong No.2 Provincial People\u2019s Hospital', u'Department of Laboratory Animal Sciences, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine', u"Medical Research Centre, Guangdong No.2 Provincial People's Hospital"]]
