[u'SED-ML Web Tools: Generate, modify and export standard-compliant simulation studies', ['Frank T Bergmann', 'David Nickerson', 'Dagmar Waltemath', 'Martin Scharm'], u'2016-10-10', u'The Simulation Experiment Description Markup Language (SED-ML) is a standardized format for exchanging simulation studies independently of software tools. We present the SED-ML Web Tools, a software that supports SED-ML Level 1 Version 2, including complex modifications and co-simulation of SBML and CellML models. This online application allows for creating, editing, simulating and validating SED-ML documents. It lowers the bar on working with SED-ML documents and helps users create valid simulation descriptions for models in CellML and SBML formats.\nAvailability and Implementation: sysbioapps.dyndns.org/SED-ML_Web_Tools.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2515/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Computational Science'], [u'COS/BioQUANT, Ruprecht-Karls-Universit\xe4t Heidelberg', u'Auckland Bioengineering Institute, University of Auckland', u'Dept. of Systems Biology and Bioinformatics, University of Rostock']]
[u'The effect of changing topography on the coordinated marching oflocust nymphs', ['Guy Amichay', 'Gil Ariel', 'Amir Ayali'], u'2016-10-10', u'Collective motion has traditionally been studied in the lab in homogeneous, obstacle-free environments, with little work having been conducted with changing landscapes or topography. Here, the impact of spatial heterogeneity on the collective motion exhibited by marching desert locust nymphs was studied under controlled lab conditions. Our experimental circular arenas, incorporating a funnel-like narrowing followed by re-widening, did not constitute a major barrier to the locusts; but, rather, mimicked a changing topography in the natural environment. We examined its effects on macroscopic features of the locust collective behavior, as well as the any changes in their marching kinematics. A major finding was that of the limited extent to which the changing topography affected system-level features of the marching locust group, such as the order parameter and the fraction of walking individuals, despite increased crowding at the funnel. Overall, marching kinematics was also very little affected, suggesting that locust marching bands adjust to the environment, with little effect on the overall dynamics of the group. These findings are in contrast to recent theoretical results predicting that environmental heterogeneities qualitatively alter the dynamics of collectively moving particles; and highlight the crucial role of rapid individual plasticity and adaptability in the dynamics of flocks and swarms. Our study has revealed other important features of the marching behavior of the desert locust in addition to its robustness: the locusts demonstrated both, clear thigmotaxis and a tendency to spread-out and fill the available space.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2514/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Biogeography', 'Ecology', 'Entomology'], [u'Department of Zoology, Tel Aviv University', u'Department of Mathematics, Bar-Ilan University', u'Sagol School of Neuroscience, Tel Aviv University']]
[u'Research Articles in Simplified HTML: a Web-first format for HTML-based scholarly articles', ['Silvio Peroni', 'Francesco Osborne', 'Angelo Di Iorio', 'Andrea Giovanni Nuzzolese', 'Francesco Poggi', 'Fabio Vitali', 'Enrico Motta'], u'2016-10-10', u'Purpose: this paper introduces the Research Articles in Simplified HTML (or RASH ), which is a Web-first format for writing HTML-based scholarly papers; it is accompanied by the RASH Framework , i.e. a set tools for interacting with RASH-based articles. The paper also presents an evaluation that involved authors and reviewers of RASH articles, submitted to the SAVE-SD 2015 and SAVE-SD 2016 workshops.\nDesign: RASH has been developed in order to: be easy to learn and use; share scholarly documents (and embedded semantic annotations) through the Web; support its adoption within the existing publishing workflow\nFindings : the evaluation study confirmed that RASH can already be adopted in workshops, conferences and journals and can be quickly learnt by researchers who are familiar with HTML.\nResearch limitations: the evaluation study also highlighted some issues in the adoption of RASH, and in general of HTML formats, especially by less technical savvy users. Moreover, additional tools are needed, e.g. for enabling additional conversion from/to existing formats such as OpenXML.\nPractical implications: RASH (and its Framework) is another step towards enabling the definition of formal representations of the meaning of the content of an article, facilitate its automatic discovery, enable its linking to semantically related articles, provide access to data within the article in actionable form, and allow integration of data between papers.\nSocial implications: RASH addresses the intrinsic needs related to the various users of a scholarly article: researchers (focussing on its content), readers (experiencing new ways for browsing it), citizen scientists (reusing available data formally defined within it through semantic annotations), publishers (using the advantages of new technologies as envisioned by the Semantic Publishing movement).\nValue: RASH focuses strictly on writing the content of the paper (i.e., organisation of text + semantic annotations) and leaves all the issues about it validation, visualisation, conversion, and semantic data extraction to the various tools developed within its Framework.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2513/', ['Digital Libraries', 'World Wide Web and Web Science'], [u'Department of Computer Science and Engineering, University of Bologna', u'Knowledge Media Institute, Open University', u'Institute of Cognitive Sciences and Technologies, Italian National Research Council']]
[u'Exiguobacterium pavilionensis str. N139, a halotolerant, UV-B and metal resistant bacteria from a high-altitude Andean lake', ['Ana Gutierrez-Preciado', 'Carlos Vargas-Chavez', 'Mariana Reyes-Prieto', 'Omar F Ordonez', 'Diego Santos-Garcia', 'Tania Rosas-Perez', 'Jorge Valdivia-Anistro', 'Eria A Rebollar', 'Andres Saralegui', 'Andres Moya', 'Enrique Merino', 'Maria Eugenia Farias', 'Amparo Latorre', 'Valeria Souza'], u'2016-10-10', u'We report the genome sequence of Exiguobacterium  pavilionensis str. N139, isolated from a high-altitude Andean lake. The 2,952,588-bp genome contains one chromosome and three megaplasmids. The genome analysis suggests the presence of enzymes that confer E. pavilionensis str. N139 the ability to grow under multiple environmental extreme conditions, including high concentrations of different metals and high ultraviolet B radiation. Moreover, the regulation of its tryptophan biosynthesis suggests that novel pathways remain to be discovered, and that these pathways might be fundamental in the amino acid metabolism of the microbial community from Laguna Negra, Argentina .', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2512/', ['Biochemistry', 'Biodiversity', 'Bioinformatics', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology'], [u'Unidad de Gen\xe9tica Evolutiva, Instituto Cavanilles de Biodiversidad y Biolog\xeda Evolutiva, Universidad de Valencia', u'Laboratorio de Investigaciones Microbiol\xf3gicas de Lagunas Andinas, Planta Piloto de Procesos Industriales Microbiol\xf3gicos (PROIMI), Consejo Nacional de  Investigaciones Cient\xedficas y T\xe9cnicas (CONICET)', u'Department of Entomology, Hebrew University of Jerusalem', u'Carrera de Biolog\xeda, Faculta de Estudios Superiores Zaragoza, UNAM', u'Department of Biology, James Madison University', u'Laboratorio Nacional de Microscop\xeda Avanzada, Instituto de Biotecnolog\xeda, Universidad Nacional Aut\xf3noma de M\xe9xico', u'Departamento de Microbiolog\xeda Molecular, Instituto de Biotecnolog\xeda, Universidad Nacional Aut\xf3noma de M\xe9xico', u'Molecular Microbiology, Universidad Nacional Aut\xf3noma de M\xe9xico', u'Laboratorio de Investigaciones Microbiol\xf3gicas de Lagunas Andinas, Planta Piloto de Procesos Industriales Microbiol\xf3gicos (PROIMI), Consejo Nacional de  Investigaciones Cient\xedficas y T\xe9cnicas', u'Departamento de Ecolog\xeda Evolutiva, Instituto de Ecolog\xeda, Universidad Nacional Aut\xf3noma de M\xe9xico']]
[u'Simulating business processes of manufacturing SMEs on the cloud', ['Gabor Terstyanszky', 'Tamas Kiss', 'Ahmet Ozkok', 'Veysi Isler'], u'2016-10-09', u'Simulating the efficiency of business processes could reveal crucial bottlenecks for manufacturing companies and could lead to significant optimizations resulting in decreased time to market, more efficient resource utilization, and larger profit. While such business optimization software is widely utilized by larger companies, SMEs typically do not have the required expertise and resources to efficiently exploit these advantages. The aim of this work is to explore how simulation software vendors and consultancies can extend their portfolio to SMEs by providing business process optimization based on a cloud computing platform. By executing simulation runs on the cloud, software vendors and associated business consultancies can get access to large computing power and data storage capacity on demand, run large simulation scenarios on behalf of their clients, analyze simulation results, and advise their clients regarding process optimization. The solution is mutually beneficial for both vendor/consultant and the end-user SME. End-user companies will only pay for the service without requiring large upfront costs for software licenses and expensive hardware. Software vendors can extend their business towards the SME market with potentially huge benefits.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2509/', ['Distributed and Parallel Computing', 'Scientific Computing and Simulation'], [u'Centre for Parallel Computing, University of Westminster', u'Simsoft Bilgisayar Teknolojileri Ltd']]
[u'Selective enhancement of attentional networks in college table tennis athletes: a preliminary investigation', ['Biye Wang', 'Wei Guo', 'Chenglin Zhou'], u'2016-10-09', u'The purpose of the study was to investigate the characteristics of the attentional network in college table tennis athletes. A total of 65 college students categorized as table tennis athlete group or non-athlete group participated in the study. All participants completed the attentional network test (ANT) which measured the alerting, orienting and executive control networks. The results showed a significant difference between the athlete and non-athlete group for executive control network (p <0.01), while no differences were observed for alerting (p>0.05) or orienting (p>0.05) networks. These results combined suggest that college table tennis athletes exhibited selectively enhanced executive control of attentional networks.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2508/', ['Neuroscience', 'Kinesiology', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Department of Sport Psychology, School of Kinesiology, Shanghai University of Sport']]
[u'Evolution of gremlin 2 in cetartiodactyl mammals: gene loss coincides with lack of upper jaw incisors in ruminants', ['Juan C Opazo', 'Kattina Zavala', 'Paola Krall', 'Rodrigo A Arias'], u'2016-10-09', u'Understanding the processes that give rise to genomic variability in extant species is an active area of research within evolutionary biology. With the availability of whole genome sequences, it is possible to quantify different forms of variability such as variation in gene copy number, which has been described as an important source of genetic variability and in consequence of phenotypic variability. Most of the research on this topic has been focused on understanding the biological significance of gene duplication, and less attention has been given to the evolutionary role of gene loss. Gremlin 2 is a member of the DAN gene family and plays a significant role in tooth development by blocking the ligand-signaling pathway of BMP2 and BMP4. The goal of this study was to investigate the evolutionary history of gremlin 2 in cetartiodactyl mammals, a group that possesses highly divergent teeth morphology. Results from our analyses indicate that gremlin 2 has experienced a mixture of gene loss, gene duplication, and rate acceleration. Although the last common ancestor of cetartiodactyls possessed a single gene copy, pigs and camels are the only cetartiodactyl groups that have retained gremlin 2. According to the phyletic distribution of this gene and synteny analyses, we propose that gremlin 2 was lost in the common ancestor of ruminants and cetaceans between 56.3 and 63.5 million years ago as a product of a chromosomal rearrangement. Our analyses also indicate that the rate of evolution of gremlin 2 has been accelerated in the two groups that have retained this gene. Additionally, the lack of this gene could explain the high diversity of teeth among cetartiodactyl mammals; specifically, the presence of this gene could act as a biological constraint. Thus, our results support the notions that gene loss is a way to increase phenotypic diversity and that gremlin 2 is a dispensable gene, at least in cetartiodactyl mammals.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2510/', ['Genetics', 'Genomics'], [u'Instituto de Ciencias Ambientales y Evolutivas, Universidad Austral de Chile', u'Unidad de Nefrolog\xeda, Universidad Austral de Chile', u'Instituto de Producci\xf3n Animal, Universidad Austral de Chile']]
[u'Virtual research environments as-a-service by gCube', ['Massimiliano Assante', 'Leonardo Candela', 'Donatella Castelli', 'Gianpaolo Coro', 'Lucio Lelii', 'Pasquale Pagano'], u'2016-10-09', u"Science is in continuous evolution and so are the methodologies and approaches scientists tend to apply by calling for appropriate supporting environments. This is in part due to the limitations of the existing practices and in part due to the new possibilities offered by technology advances. gCube is a software system promoting elastic and seamless access to research assets (data, services, computing) across the boundaries of institutions, disciplines and providers to favour collaborative-oriented research tasks. Its primary goal is to enable Hybrid Data Infrastructures facilitating the dynamic definition and operation of Virtual Research Environments. To this end, it offers a comprehensive set of data management commodities on various types of data and a rich array of ``mediators'' to interface well-established Infrastructures and Information Systems from various domains. Its effectiveness has been proved by operating the D4Science.org infrastructure and serving concrete, multidisciplinary, challenging, and large scale scenarios. This paper gives an overview of the gCube system.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2511/', ['Data Science', 'Digital Libraries', 'Distributed and Parallel Computing', 'Network Science and Online Social Networks', 'Scientific Computing and Simulation'], [u'Networked Multimedia Information Systems Laboratory, Istituto di Scienza e Tecnologie dell\'Informazione "A. Faedo" - National Research Council of Italy']]
