[u'Genomic comparisons of a bacterial lineage that inhabits both marine and terrestrial deep subsurface systems', ['Sean P Jungbluth', 'Tijana Glavina del Rio', 'Susannah G Tringe', 'Ramunas Stepanauskas', 'Michael S Rappe'], u'2016-11-14', u'It is generally accepted that diverse, poorly characterized microorganisms reside deep within Earth\u2019s crust. One such lineage of deep subsurface-dwelling Bacteria is an uncultivated member of the Firmicutes phylum that can dominate molecular surveys from both marine and continental rock fracture fluids, sometimes forming the sole member of a single-species microbiome. Here, we reconstructed a genome from basalt-hosted fluids of the deep subseafloor along the eastern Juan de Fuca Ridge flank and used a phylogenomic analysis to show that, despite vast differences in geographic origin and habitat, it forms a monophyletic clade with the terrestrial deep subsurface genome of \u201cCandidatus Desulforudis audaxviator\u201d MP104C. While a limited number of differences were observed between the marine genome of \u201cCandidatus Desulfopertinax cowenii\u201d modA32 and its terrestrial relative that may be of potential adaptive importance, here it is revealed that the two are remarkably similar thermophiles possessing the genetic capacity for motility, sporulation, hydrogenotrophy, chemoorganotrophy, dissimilatory sulfate reduction, and the ability to fix inorganic carbon via the Wood-Ljungdahl pathway for chemoautotrophic growth. Our results provide insights into the genetic repertoire within marine and terrestrial members of a bacterial lineage that is widespread in the global deep subsurface biosphere, and provides a natural means to investigate adaptations specific to these two environments.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2592/', ['Ecology', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Oceanography, University of Hawaii at Manoa', u'Center for Dark Energy Biosphere Investigations, University of Southern California', u'DOE Joint Genome Institute', u'Single Cell Genomics Center, Bigelow Laboratory for Ocean Sciences', u'Hawaii Institute of Marine Biology, University of Hawaii at Manoa']]
[u'Influence of different types of sessile epibionts on the community structure of mobile invertebrates in an eelgrass bed', ['Kyosuke Momota', 'Masahiro Nakaoka'], u'2016-11-14', u'The variation in the biomass, abundance and diversity of mobile invertebrates in eelgrass (Zostera marina) beds has been examined in relation to various abiotic and biotic factors, such as water temperature, salinity, eelgrass biomass and epiphytic microalgae presence. However, the importance of sessile epibionts, such as macroalgae and calcific spirorbid polychaetes attached to eelgrass blades, has not been the focus of previous studies. In the present study, we examined the effects of three different sessile epibionts, namely, branched red algae, filamentous green algae, and calcific spirorbid polychaetes, on the biomass and diversity of mobile invertebrates in the eelgrass beds of Akkeshi in Northeastern Japan. The relationships of the dominant mobile invertebrate biomass, the total biomass of mobile invertebrates and the species diversity to multiple abiotic and biotic variables were analyzed using a linear mixed model. Our results show that large-sized epibiotic organisms can be good predictors of the variation in the total biomass, species richness and species diversity of mobile invertebrates and the biomass of major dominant species, especially for species that have a relatively high dependency on eelgrass blades. These results suggest that the different functional groups of sessile epibionts have significant roles in determining the biomass and diversity of mobile invertebrates in eelgrass beds.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2591/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Graduate School of Environmental Science, Hokkaido University', u'Akkeshi Marine Station, Field Science Center for Northern Biosphere, Hokkaido University']]
[u'Shallow water sea slugs (Gastropoda: Heterobranchia) from the northwestern coast of the Sea of Japan, north of Peter the Great Bay, Russia', ['Anton Chichvarkhin'], u'2016-11-14', u'The coast of northern Primorye region, north of Peter the Great Bay has been sparsely studied in regards to its molluscan fauna, with just a few works reviewing the distribution of local mollusks. This work presents a survey of the shallow water heterobranch sea slugs currently occurring around Kievka Bay to Oprichnik Bay, Russia. Thirty-eight species of sea slugs were found in this study and the new species Cadlina olgae sp. nov., described herein. Most (24) of the species occurring in the area have widespread ranges in the northern Pacific Ocean. Eight species are endemic for the Sea of Japan and the adjacent part of the Sea of Okhotsk. Seven others also occur in northern Atlantic and Arctic waters. Thirteen species not known from Peter the Great Bay but known from adjacent northern Pacific waters. The finding of a previously undescribed species emphasizes the need for further surveys, particularly in subtidal and deeper waters, in order to improve the knowledge on this neglected fauna.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2590/', ['Biodiversity', 'Marine Biology', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'A. V. Zhirmunsky Institute of Marine Biology, Far Eastern Branch of Russian Academy of Sciences', u'Far Eastern Federal University']]
