[u'A computational technique to estimate within-host productively infected cell lifetimes in emerging viral infections', ['Soumya Banerjee'], u'2016-12-06', u'Emerging viruses cause a lot of fatalities as they jump to humans from other species. Here we develop a novel technique to computationally estimate an important parameter of within-host viral infection: the lifespan of infected cells. Our approach is general and can be applied to a large class of viruses and leverages experimental data from replicon studies. Current techniques have difficulties reliably estimating infected cell lifetimes due to issues of parameter identifiability and correlation of parameters. The infected cell lifetime is an important parameter that gives an estimate of the how fast virus levels will decline. Our method would also help determine if some infected cells are short-lived or have longer lifespans with the consequence that longer lived cells could be reservoirs of infection. This would give a mechanistic understanding of why particular cell types are reservoirs of infection. We apply our technique to West Nile virus (WNV), an emerging disease of public health relevance related to Zika virus. Our analysis suggests that the most abundant infectible cells are short-lived and could motivate therapy that targets these particular cells. Our approach is very general and can be combined with more traditional methods of using differential equation models to simulate viremia in hosts: the combination of these two techniques will likely yield results that may not be achievable using the models in isolation. This will be of great interest especially in modelling emerging diseases.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2621/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'University of Oxford']]
[u'Genome sequencing and analysis of the genome of Acidithiobacillus ferrooxidans strain DLC-5, a heavy metal resistant strain from acid mine drainage in northeast China', ['Peng Chen', 'Ruixiang Xu', 'Zheng Yan', 'Lei Yan', 'Zhengrong Wu', 'Yan Wei', 'Wenbin Zhao', 'Hongyu Li'], u'2016-12-06', u'Acidithiobacillus ferrooxidans ( A. ferrooxidans ) is a gram-negative, extremely acidophilic, mesophilic, chemolithotrophic bacterium and the most well-studied acidophilic organism which is usually found in acid environments such as acid mine drainage. The draft genome sequence of A. ferrooxidans ATCC 23270 was first reported in 2000, fourteen years ago. Here we describe the features of this organism, together with the draft genome sequence, and annotation. This is the draft genome sequence from the A. ferrooxidans, and the 3,142,890 bp long single replicon genome with its 32,719 protein-coding and 64 RNA genes is a part of the Genomic Encyclopedia of Bacteria and Bacterial project.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2620/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology'], [u'School of Pharmacy, Lanzhou University', u'College of Life Science and Technology, Heilongjiang University', u'Gansu Key Laboratory of Biomonitoring and Bioremediation for Environmental Pollution, Institute of Microbiology, School of Life Sciences, Lanzhou University']]
[u'Semi-automatic wavelet soft-thresholding applied to digital image error level analysis', ['Daniel C Jeronymo'], u'2016-12-06', u"In this paper a method for detection of image forgery in lossy compressed digital images known as error level analysis (ELA) is presented and it's noisy components are filtered with automatic wavelet soft-thresholding. With ELA, a lossy compressed image is recompressed at a known error rate and the absolute differences between these images, known as error levels, are computed. This method might be weakened if the image noise generated by the compression scheme is too intense, creating the necessity of noise filtering. Wavelet thresholding is a proven denoising technique which is capable of removing an image's noise avoiding altering other components, like high frequencies regions, by thresholding the wavelet transform coefficients, thus not causing blurring. Despite its effectiveness, the choice of the threshold is a known issue. However there are some approaches to select it automatically. In this paper, a lowpass filter is implemented through wavelet thresholding, attenuating error level noises. An efficient method to automatically determine the threshold level is used, showing good results in threshold selection for the presented problem. Standard test images have been doctored to simulate image tampering, error levels for these images are computed and wavelet thresholding is performed to attenuate noise. Results are presented, confirming the method's efficiency at noise filtering while preserving necessary error levels.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2619/', ['Artificial Intelligence', 'Computer Vision', 'Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Graphics'], [u'Computer Engineering Department, Federal University of Technology - Paran\xe1']]
[u'European foulbrood in Czechia after 40 years: application of next-generation sequencing to analyze Melissococcus plutonius transmission and influence on the bacteriome of Apis mellifera', ['Tomas Erban', 'Ondrej Ledvinka', 'Martin Kamler', 'Bronislava Hortova', 'Marta Nesvorna', 'Jan Tyl', 'Dalibor Titera', 'Martin Markovic', 'Jan Hubert'], u'2016-12-06', u'Worker honeybees (Apis mellifera) transmit Melissococcus plutonius between colonies. However, the transmission of M. plutonius, which causes European foulbrood (EFB), is poorly understood. To analyze the first EFB outbreak in 40 years in Czechia, we collected 49 hive worker samples from 18 beehives in two diseased apiaries for bacteriome analysis of the V1-V3 portion of the 16S rRNA gene. When we compared control samples obtained outside of the EFB zone, bees from an EFB apiaries containing colonies without clinical symptoms and bees from colonies with EFB clinical symptoms, there was a 100-fold higher occurrence of M. plutonius in colonies with EFB symptoms. The presence of M. plutonius in controls indicated that this pathogen exists in an enzootic state. EFB influenced the core bacteria in the worker bacteriome because the number of Snodgrassella alvi, Lactobacillus mellis, Lactobacillus melliventris, and Fructobacillus fructosus sequences increased, while Bartonella apis, Frischella perrara, and Commensalibacter intestine sequences decreased. Together, the results of this study suggest worker bees from EFB-diseased apiaries serve as vectors of M. plutonius, and eliminating such colonies is an appropriate method to overcome disease outbreaks. Because M. plutonius exists in honeybee colonies in an enzootic state, there may be similar abundances in control colonies outside the EFB zone to those in asymptomatic colonies from EFB apiaries. High-throughput Illumina next-generation sequencing permitted the quantitative interpretation of M. plutonius within the honeybee worker bacteriome. Future studies focusing on honeybee diseases, colony losses, detection of bacterial pathogens and interactions of bacteriome with pathogenic bacteria will benefit of this study.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2618/', ['Ecology', 'Entomology', 'Veterinary Medicine', 'Zoology'], [u'Crop Research Institute', u'Hydrological Database and Water Budget Department, Czech Hydrometeorological Institute', u'Bee Research Institute at Dol', u'Research, Bee Research Institute at Dol', u'Faculty of Agrobiology, Food and Natural Resources;Department of Zoology and Fisheries, Czech University of Life Sciences']]
[u'Curating GitHub for engineered software projects', ['Nuthan Munaiah', 'Steven Kroh', 'Craig Cabrey', 'Meiyappan Nagappan'], u'2016-12-06', u'Software forges like GitHub host millions of repositories. Software engineering researchers have been able to take advantage of such a large corpora of potential study subjects with the help of tools like GHTorrent and Boa. However, the simplicity in querying comes with a caveat: there are limited means of separating the signal (e.g. repositories containing engineered software projects) from the noise (e.g. repositories containing home work assignments). The proportion of noise in a random sample of repositories could skew the study and may lead to researchers reaching unrealistic, potentially inaccurate, conclusions. We argue that it is imperative to have the ability to sieve out the noise in such large repository forges. We propose a framework, and present a reference implementation of the framework as a tool called reaper, to enable researchers to select GitHub repositories that contain evidence of an engineered software project. We identify software engineering practices (called dimensions) and propose means for validating their existence in a GitHub repository. We used reaper to measure the dimensions of 1,994,977 GitHub repositories. We then used the data set train classifiers capable of predicting if a given GitHub repository contains an engineered software project. The performance of the classifiers was evaluated using a set of 200 repositories with known ground truth classification. We also compared the performance of the classifiers to other approaches to classification (e.g. number of GitHub Stargazers) and found our classifiers to outperform existing approaches. We found stargazers-based classifier to exhibit high precision (96%) but an inversely proportional recall (27%). On the other hand, our best classifier exhibited a high precision (82%) and a high recall (83%). The stargazer-based criteria offers precision but fails to recall a significant potion of the population.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2617/', ['Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Department of Software Engineering, Rochester Institute of Technology', u'David R. Cheriton School of Computer Science, University of Waterloo']]
