[u'Accurate stratification of patients with neuroblastoma by application of the reject option paradigm to outcome prediction', ['Davide Cangelosi', 'Martina Morini', 'Alessandra Eva', 'Maria Carla Bosco', 'Massimo Conte', 'Luigi Varesio'], u'2016-07-06', u"Motivation\n\nNeuroblastoma (NB) is the most common solid pediatric tumor, deriving from ganglionic lineage precursors of the sympathetic nervous system. Half of the patients with high-risk NB die despite treatment and more accurate outcome prediction models are needed to direct effective therapies. To limit the therapy's side effects, a highly accurate classification of a limited number of patients is preferable to a broader classification with greater error. We aimed at improving the classifier's accuracy and establishing the criteria for confident selection of classification rules by applying the reject option technique (RO).\n\nMethods\n\nWe evaluated outcome prediction by BFTree, ID3, J48, REPTree, SimpleCART decision-tree algorithms utilizing a 182 patients\u2019 dataset. Fifty percent of the patients were utilized for model selection, and the remaining 50% for independent validation. The risk factors were: NB-hypo, age at diagnosis, stage and MYCN amplification. Accuracy of the classification was measured by Matthew\u2019s Correlation Coefficient and assessed by 2 fold cross validation analysis repeated 1000 times. Trade-off between confidence and accuracy was estimated by the RO technique utilizing the accuracy/rejection plot. Kaplan-Meier estimate and log-rank test assessed overall survival.\n\nResults\n\nEvery decision tree classified the patients' outcome with a confidence >0.6. Only ID3, utilizing all risk factors, stratified stage 4 patients and was chosen for further analysis. Application of RO raised the ID3 accuracy from 69% to 92%. This result was obtained because of accuracy/rejection plot identified a threshold confidence of 0.66 at which 71% of the patients, classified by highly reliable rules, were accepted. The trade-off was the exclusion from classification of 29% of patients falling in low represented and ambiguous rules. Kaplan-Meier curves showed a significant stratification of stage 4 patients following RO application. In conclusion, we demonstrated that application of the RO improves the classification performance of ID3 decision tree. Stage 4 patients can be stratified in significant groups characterized by the high confidence rules needed for making clinical decisions.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2263/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Molecular Biology', 'Oncology', 'Pediatrics'], [u'Laboratory of Molecular Biology, G. Gaslini Institute', u'Department of Hematology\u2013Oncology, G. Gaslini Institute']]
[u'Using ontologies and semantic similarity measures for prioritization of gene regulatory networks', ['Marianna Milano', 'Pietro Guzzi', 'Mario Cannataro'], u'2016-07-06', u'Omics sciences are widely used to analyze diseases at a molecular level. Usually, results of omics experiments are sets of candidate genes potentially involved in different diseases. The interpretation of results and the filtering of candidate genes or proteins selected in an experiment is a challenge in some scenarios. This problem is particularly evident in clinical environments in which researchers are interested in the behavior of few molecules related to some specific disease while results may contains thousands of data and have very relevant dimensions. The filtering requires the use of domain-specific knowledge that is usually encoded into ontologies. Consequently, to filter out false positive genes, different approaches for selecting genes have been introduced. Such approaches are often referred to as Gene prioritization methods. They aim to identify the most related genes to a disease among a larger set of candidates genes, through the use of computational methods. We implemented GoD (Gene ranking based On Diseases), an algorithm that ranks a given set of genes based on ontology annotations. The algorithm orders genes by the semantic similarity computed with respect to a disease among the annotations of each gene and those describing the selected disease.The current version of GoD enables the prioritization of a list of input genes for a selected disease. It uses HPO (Human Phenotype Ontology), GO (Gene Ontology), and DO (Disease Ontology) ontologies for the calculation of the ranking. It takes as input a list of genes or gene products annotated with GO Terms, HPO Terms, DO Terms and a selected disease described regarding annotation of GO, HPO or DO (user may also provide novel annotations). It produces as output the ranking of those genes with respect of the input disease. Package consists of three main functions: hpoGoD (for HPO based prioritization), goGoD (for GO based prioritization), and doGoD (for DO based prioritization). We tested GoD on Gene Regulatory Networks (GRNs). Biological network inference aims to reconstruct network of interactions (or associations) among biological genes starting from experimental observations. We selected three expression datasets: Dataset 1 (GDS3285) , related to breast cancer disease; Dataset 2 (GDS5072), related to prostate cancer disease; and Dataset 3 (GDS5093), related to Dengue virus (DENV) infection. Initially, experimental data are given as input to five GRN inference algorithms, i.e. ARACNE, CLR, MRNET, GENIE3 and GGM, to produce 5 inferred GRN networks. For each inferred GRN, GoD receives as input the list of top genes and produces for each gene a semantic similarity value on a selected disease considering one of the previous ontologies (e.g. Disease Ontology). For each GRN, the genes are ranked and reordered on the basis of the computed semantic similarity and are compared allowing to rank each GRN inference method with respect to the initially selected disease.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2259/', ['Computational Science'], [u'Department of Surgical and Medical Sciences, University of Magna Graecia']]
[u'Microbial Transglutaminases investigations for selecting putative forms of industrial interest', ['Deborah Giordano', 'Angelo Facchiano'], u'2016-07-06', u'Motivation:  Microbial Transglutaminase (MTGase) is an enzyme belonging to the class of transferases. Enzymes of this family (E.C. 2.3.2.13) catalyze post-translational modification in many proteins by acyl transfer reactions, deamidation and crosslinking (polymerisation) between protein intra- or inter-chain glutamine (acyl donor) and lysine (acyl acceptor) peptide residues. Even if the functions of transglutaminases in bacteria are unknown, now they are become an important tool for industry, but also for research and biotechnology fields. The interest in these enzymes is also focused on various biological processes and clinical applications as well as on their important role in the prevention of allergy and food intolerance, including celiac disease. Since the early 1990s, many MTGase-producing strains have been found, and production processes have been optimized. Nowadays the MTGase produced by Streptomyces mobaraensis is commercially available and widely used in biopolymers industry, in cosmetics, in clinical applications, in wool textiles, and in the food processing industry. We are interested to explore the existence of different MTGases that may maintain or improve the functional features of the mTGase currently in use. Methods:  Databases searches have been performed in order to identify amino acid sequences of potential transglutaminases in microorganisms. NCBI databases, UniProt and specific microbial genome databases have been searched by querying the sequence from Streptomyces mobaraensis sequence and human tissue TGase, as reference to human form, by BLAST tools. Results:  Microbial sequences annotated as \u201chypothetical transglutaminases\u201d are largely present in databases. Searches based on the selected query sequences evidence a even more high number of MTGases. Among them, we find different characteristics in terms of length, presence of domains, position of amino acids with expectable functional roles. The results suggest a variety of forms within the microbial universe, and this encourage us for the search of novel proteins to be investigated for in vitro activity.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2260/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioinformatics'], [u"Istituto di Scienze dell'Alimentazione, National Research Council", u'Dottorato di Ricerca in \u201cInnovazione e management di alimenti ad elevata valenza salutistica\u201d, Universit\xe0 di Foggia']]
[u'Cloud Computing in Bioinformatics: current solutions and challenges', ['Barbara Calabrese', 'Mario Cannataro'], u'2016-07-06', u'Abstract truncated at 3,000 characters - the full version is available in the pdf file\nMOTIVATIONS The availability of high-throughput technologies and the application of genomics and pharmacogenomics studies of large populations, are producing an increasing amount of experimental and clinical data, as well as specialized databases spread over the Internet. The storage, preprocessing and analysis of experimental data is becoming the main bottleneck of the analysis pipeline. Managing omics data requires both space for data storing as well as services for data preprocessing, analysis, and sharing. The resulting scenario comprises a set of bioinformatics tools, often implemented as web services, for the management and analysis of data stored in geographically distributed biological databases [1]. Cloud computing may play an important role in many phases of the bioinformatics analysis pipeline, from data management and processing, to data integration and analysis, including data exploration and visualization because it offers massive scalable computing and storage, data sharing, on-demand anytime and anywhere access to resources and applications, thus it may represent the key technology for facing those issues [2]. METHODS This work reviews main academic and industrial cloud-based bioinformatics solutions developed in the recent years; moreover, it underlines main issues and problems related to the use of such platforms for the storage and analysis of patients\u2019 data. Specifically, the analysed solutions regard: - Data as a Service (DaaS): it provides data storage in a dynamic virtual space hosted by the cloud and allows to have updated data that are accessible from a wide range of connected devices on the web. - Software as a Service (SaaS): several cloud-based tools to execute different bioinformatics tasks, e.g. mapping applications, sequences alignment, gene expression analysis have been proposed and made available. - Platform as a Service (PaaS): unlike SaaS solutions, PaaS solutions allow users to customize the deployment of bioinformatics applications as well as to retain complete control over their instances and associated data. - Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS): this service model is offered in a computing infrastructure that includes servers (typically virtualized) with specific computational capability and/or storage. The user controls all the deployed storage resources, operating systems and bioinformatics applications. For each analysed solution, main technical characteristics as well as security and privacy issues arising when storing and analysing patients data, are reported. RESULTS The application of cloud computing in bioinformatics regards the efficient storage, retrieval and integration of experimental data and their efficient and high-throughput preprocessing and analysis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2261/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, University Magna Graecia of Catanzaro']]
[u'Familiar face + novel face = familiar face? Representational bias in the perception of morphed faces in chimpanzee', ['Yoshi-Taka Matsuda', 'Masako Myowa-Yamakoshi', 'Satoshi Hirata'], u'2016-07-06', u'Highly social animals possess a well-developed ability to distinguish the faces of familiar from novel conspecifics to induce distinct behaviors for maintaining society. However, the behaviors of animals when they encounter ambiguous faces of familiar yet novel conspecifics, e.g., strangers with faces resembling known individuals, have not been well characterised. Using a morphing technique and preferential-looking paradigm, we address this question via the chimpanzee\u2019s facial\u2013recognition abilities. We presented eight subjects with three types of stimuli: (1) familiar faces, (2) novel faces and (3) intermediate morphed faces that were 50% familiar and 50% novel faces of conspecifics. We found that chimpanzees spent more time looking at novel faces and scanned novel faces more extensively than familiar or intermediate faces. Interestingly, chimpanzees looked at intermediate faces in a manner similar to familiar faces with regards to the fixation duration, fixation count, and saccade length for facial scanning, even though the participant was encountering the intermediate faces for the first time. We excluded the possibility that subjects merely detected and avoided traces of morphing in the intermediate faces. These findings suggest a bias for a feeling-of-familiarity that chimpanzees perceive familiarity with an intermediate face by detecting traces of a known individual, as 50% alternation is sufficient to perceive familiarity.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2262/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Evolutionary Studies'], [u'Center for Baby Science, Doshisha University', u'Graduate School of Education, Kyoto University', u'Wildlife Research Center, Kyoto University']]
[u'Open source GIS for geological field mapping: research and teaching experience', ['Mauro De Donatis', 'Mauro Alberti', 'Carlo Cesarini', 'Marco Menichetti', 'Sara Susini'], u'2016-07-06', u'The journey to digital field mapping in the geosciences academic world is far from ending. When it started some years ago, many geoscientists were skeptical about the use of digital tools in the field. Nowadays, the work done in this decade shows clearly that this will be the way of working in the future. The traditional way of mapping can be incorporated and improved in the digital survey. Many of the previously existing limitations have been surmounted. Part of this process is possible thanks to the choice of open source tools.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2258/', ['Mobile and Ubiquitous Computing', 'Spatial and Geographic Information Systems'], [u'Department of Pure and Applied Sciences, University of Urbino', u'Over It', u'Private consultant']]
[u'Molecular effects of microcystin-LA toxicity in Tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus)', ['Daniel A Moreira', 'Raquel Soares', 'Richard H Valente', 'Maria Joao A Bebianno', 'Mauro de Freitas Rebelo'], u'2016-07-06', u'A comprehensive understanding of microcystin (MC) effects and mode(s) of action(s) on aquatic biota has not been achieved yet. In the present study, Nile tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus) were sub-lethally exposed to the microcystin analogue MC-LA for 12, 24, 48 and 96 hours, and gene expression of PP1, PP2A, GST and actin were analyzed by quantitative PCR. Moreover, PP2A protein abundance profile was established by immunoblotting, while its biological function integrity was checked by a phosphatase enzymatic assay. PP2A activity was significantly reduced by MC-LA, indicating that MC acts as a PP2A inhibitor, similarly to what occurs in mammals. However, the positive (9.1-fold after 12h) feedback mechanism induced by PP2A gene, after exposure to sub-lethal MC-LA dose (1,000 \xb5g.kg-1), did not counteract the complete PP2A catalytic activity inhibition that occurred concomitantly. A weaker inflammatory response in fish compared to mammals may be the reason why O. niloticus is able to tolerate such high concentrations of MC-LA when compared to mice.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2257/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Instituto Oswaldo Cruz, Funda\xe7\xe3o Oswaldo Cruz', u'Numpex-Bio - Polo de Xer\xe9m, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro', u'Laboratory of Toxinology, Instituto Oswaldo Cruz, Funda\xe7\xe3o Oswaldo Cruz', u'CIMA - Campus Gambelas, Universidade do Algarve', u'Instituto de Biof\xedsica Carlos Chagas Filho, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro']]
[u'Beliefs propagation in log domain: a neural inspired algorithm for machine learning', ['Osama Ashfaq'], u'2016-07-06', u'In this paper, we consider a variant of belief propagation algorithm in a tree graphical model where computations are carried out in the negative log-likelihood domain. Unlike the min-product algorithm, our goal is not limited to estimating the mode of the marginal distribution. We would like to obtain the entire marginal distribution as the sum-product algorithm does. We applied the algorithm to learn effective users features for A/B testing. We discussed scalable extension to the proposed algorithm for processing large amount of data.The primary goal of a parallel program is to reduce running time comparing to the sequential program by taking full advantage of computing power of multiprocessors. Threads are widely used in the implementation of parallelism in shared memory multiprocessor architectures. For UNIX/LINUX systems, pthread is the POSIX standard threading interface, which provides support a standardized way for creating and synchronizing threads. Here we presents how pthreads can be used successfully in parallelizing real scientific problems. We will illustrate it by implementing the shared memory parallel version of Jacobi iteration algorithm. Results of performance tests showed that the speedups can be up to p where p is the number of processors.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2256/', ['Artificial Intelligence', 'Data Mining and Machine Learning'], [u'Department of Computer Engineering, Bahria University']]
[u'A workflow to integrate pre-processing, analysis and comparison of MALDI-ToF mass spectra in GeenaR', ['Eugenio Del Prete', 'Angelo Facchiano', 'Aldo Profumo', 'Claudia Angelini', 'Paolo Romano'], u'2016-07-06', u'Many large-scale proteomics studies have been performed in the last years, and this field of investigation is expanding up. If the analysis of any single spectrum can be performed by tools already made available along with the mass spectrometry (MS) instrumentation, comparison of spectra on a large scale represents a complex aspect of the analysis and interpretation of the study. Recently, we developed Geena 2, a tool for the automation of different steps in the MALDI/ToF MS data analysis. Integration of further tools can be performed, in order to improve some aspects of the whole workflow: the input of more data formats, the implementation of new algorithms for data cleaning, the graphical visualization and the reporting of the results, the use of advanced statistics for the comparison of mass spectra. For this motivations, we are now developing GeenaR, a new robust web tool for pre-processing, analysing, visualizing and comparing a set of MALDI-ToF mass spectra. The aim of this work is the presentation of on-going developments. The first results will be presented at the conference. GeenaR is being written in PHP, Perl (from Geena 2) and R languages. The R packages used are MALDIquant and MALDIquantForeign for mass spectra pre-processing and analysis, OrgMassSpecR for mass spectra comparison, dendextend and pvclust for clustering, and sda and crossval for variable selection. The system is being implemented in a LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP) environment. Proper interfaces between PHP on one side and perl and R on the other are then implemented. The aim of GeenaR is to provide to the users a wider range of statistical methods and graphical results, without making it more difficult to use for researchers with little expertise in programming. In order to achieve this goal, we have taken advantage of the availability of several packages, written in R language, for mass spectrometry statistical that are going to be integrated in the system. The complete pipeline of GeenaR includes some features already available in Geena 2 plus others under development thanks to the integration of the R environment. In fact, an original set of heuristic algorithms is already available in Geena 2. In particular, they are the identification of isotopic peaks by taking into account molecular weight of signals and the related trend of abundances; the normalization on the basis of a reference standard molecule; the peak selection by means of a threshold line, built by linearly interpolating values provided for given m/z values; the alignment, by selecting the nearest peaks, within a limited m/z difference, in the different mass spectra. By means of some R packages, GeenaR adds new statistical methods which are highly relevant for mass spectra analysis.\n(Abstract truncated at 3,000 characters - the full version is available in the pdf file)', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2255/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Sciences, University of Basilicata', u'Institute of Food Sciences, National Research Council', u'IRCCS AOU San Martino, Istituto Nazionale per la Ricerca sul Cancro', u'Biopolymers and Proteomics, IRCCS AOU San Martino IST', u'Istituto per le Applicazioni di Calcolo "Mauro Picone", National Research Council', u'Bioinformatics Lab, IRCCS AOU San Martino IST']]
[u'Natural compounds as potential PI3K-AKT1 signaling pathway inhibitors by means of pharmacophore modeling', ['Serena Dotolo', 'Angelo Gaeta', 'Angelo Facchiano'], u'2016-07-06', u'AKT1, a modulator of PI3K-AKT1 pathway, is dysregulated in several human diseases, and understanding deeper its role in the complexity of biological systems remains an important goal. The research has been focused on development and study of potential synthetic-natural allosteric inhibitors for AKT1, and recent studies have shown how some natural compounds may play this role (1). We are interested in a screening of small bioactive molecules, in order to identify the potential \u201clead compounds\u201d, for next experimental assays, searching those potentially able to inhibit AKT1 and its signaling mechanisms, trying to re-establish the normal balance and safeguarding of human health. The workflow executed is the following: 1) search in PDB database of a model structure for AKT1 (comparing different structures and choosing the most suitable for our purposes), through algorithm BLAST. 2) pharmacophore modeling by means of ZINCpharmer web-server, to investigate all purchasable compounds of the ZINC database, using the Pharmer as efficient and exact pharmacophore search technology (2). 3) screening of possible natural AKT1 inhibitors, using the pharmacophore generated by ZINCpharmer, choosing only the best candidates for next steps. 4) molecular validation of selected compounds, to analyze the ligand-protein interactions. 5) study of physical-chemical properties of selected compounds to trace their origin. 6)prediction of their biosynthetic pathways and Pharmacokinetics/Pharmacodynamics models, by means of ADMET/toxicity predictor server in order to direct the design of next experimental assays. Our attention is focused on the study of natural compounds that can show many health benefits, through the realization and analysis of \u201cpharmacophore modeling\u201d, essential step in drug discovery (3). We selected the PDB structure 3O96 as the reference complex (protein-ligand), and we analyzed it by means of ZINCpharmer, to generate three different \u201cpharmacophore models\u201d with three different list of natural compounds. It is performed a thorough screening of compounds applying other filters, to find some good candidates as possible natural AKT1 allosteric inhibitors. The compounds that match a well-defined pharmacophore have been analyzed through direct molecular docking, for selecting only the best candidates and studying the protein-ligand interactions. Selected compounds have been investigated in more details, to trace their origin, by their chemical-physical properties. This information can help us to predict some plausible enzyme-catalyzed reaction pathways, investigated with PathPred server and KEGG compound database, in order to highlight the most important reactions for biosynthesis of compounds and obtain PharmacoKinetics/PharmacoDynamics (PK/PD) models through ADME predictor server and to realize of next experimental assays.\n(Abstract truncated at 3,000 characters - the full version is available in the pdf file)', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2254/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Institute of Food Science, National Research Council', u'Department of Biochemistry, Biophysics and General Pathology, Second University of Naples']]
[u'From photo-geology to 3D geological models. An open source approach', ['Michele Santangelo', 'Ivan Marchesini', 'Francesco Mirabella', 'Francesco Bucci', 'Mauro Cardinali', 'Fausto Guzzetti'], u'2016-07-06', u'Three-dimensional modeling of geological bodies is a useful tool for multiple applications. Such tasks are usually accomplished starting from field-collected data, which typically suffer from intrinsic limitations such as accessibility constraints and punctuality of data collected. In this work, we explore the reliability of photo-geological analyses starting from aerial photo-interpretation in providing data useful to build up 3D geological models, and validate them using exploration wells data in a lignite rich area in Umbria, central Italy. The procedure that produces 3D models from photo-geological data is a three-step open source GIS procedure developed using python in GRASS GIS environment and GNU-Linux OS. We maintain that this procedure can have potential broad applications in Earth Sciences, including geological and structural analyses, up to the preliminary evaluation of potential reservoirs.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2253/', ['Spatial and Geographic Information Systems'], [u'CNR IRPI', u'Research Institute for Geo-Hydrological Protection, Italian National Research Council', u'Dipartimento di Fisica e Geologia, University of Perugia']]
