[u'Biofeedback based on mobile accelerometry to improve running in space \u2013 ideas and first results', ['Martin Daumer', 'Karl Muller', 'Alexandra Mercader', 'Christian Lederer'], u'2016-06-18', u'Background \u2013 actibelt technology \u2013 a 3D accelerometer in a belt buckle and a package of algorithms, mainly used in international multi centre clinical trials \u2013 has also been evaluated for various applications in space, moon and mars in a series of studies and projects since roughly 10 years (2 parabola flight campaigns by ESA, 1 parabola flight campaign by NASA, mars 500).\nAim \u2013 To develop a training feedback application which compares the similarity of running parameters under artificial gravity conditions with natural running on earth.\nMethods - We use an actibelt BLU2, a version of the actibelt with bluetooth transmission capability, an android tablet with internet access and R packages to visualize and quantify acceleration patterns. Data, including video documentation in some cases, was collected from various runners (marathon, mountain runs, B2run) and various running styles. Written informed consent was obtained.\nResults: We have developed an application running on an android tablet. It displays an overview of the projections of the accelerometry pattern of the individual steps in the sagittal plane as well as a summary measure for the mean area per step. There are clear differences between extremes of running style (heel strike overstriding vs. forefoot) both in the area and the shape of the curve.\nDiscussion/Conclusion: We speculate that online-biofeedback of the acceleration patterns and extracted parameters could advise astronauts during their treadmill training how to best adapt their running style as to optimally avoid loss of bone mineral density. As with running on earth also footwear \u2013 with or without heel cushioning, minimal footwear, barefoot \u2013 may play an important role.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2143/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Anatomy and Physiology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Sylvia Lawry Centre e.V. \u2013  The Human Motion Institute', u'Telecommunications Engineering, Technische Universit\xe4t M\xfcnchen']]
[u'Who\u2019s your mama? Riverine hybridisation of threatened freshwater Trout Cod and Murray Cod', ['Alan J Couch', 'Peter J Unmack', 'Fiona J Dyer', 'Mark Lintermans'], u'2016-06-18', u'Rates of hybridization and introgression are increasing dramatically worldwide because of translocations, restocking of organisms and habitat modifications (Allendorf et al., 2001) thus determining whether hybridization is beneficial or detrimental for the species involved is commensurately important for conservation. Restocking programs are sometimes criticized because of the genetic consequences of hatchery-bred fish breeding with wild populations. These concerns are important to conservation restocking programs, including Percichthyidae. Two of the better known Australian Percichthyidae are the Murray Cod (Maccullochella peelii) and Trout Cod (Maccullochella macquariensis) which were formerly widespread over the Murray Darling Basin. In much of the Murrumbidgee River Trout Cod and Murray Cod were sympatric until the late 1970s when Trout Cod were extirpated. Here we use genetic SNP data to examine hybridization and introgression between Murray Cod and Trout Cod in the upper Murrumbidgee River and consider implications for restocking programs. For the first time we have confirmed restocked riverine Trout Cod as reproducing in the wild. We detected hybrid Trout Cod-Murray Cod in the Upper Murrumbidgee, recording the first hybrid larvae in the wild. Although hybrid larvae, juveniles and adults have been recorded in hatcheries and impoundments, and hybrid adults have been recorded in rivers previously (Douglas, Gooley & Ingram, 1994a; Douglas et al., 1995) , this is the first time fertile F1 have been recorded in the wild. The F1 backcrosses with Murray cod have also been found to be fertile. All backcrosses noted were with pure Murray Cod. Such introgression has not been recorded previously in these two species, and the imbalance in hybridization direction may have important implications for restocking programs.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2142/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology'], [u'Institute for Applied Ecology, University of Canberra']]
[u'Directional and balancing selection on proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 6 (PCSK6)', ['Sonja Kuderer', 'Martin Fieder', 'Sylvia Kirchengast'], u'2016-06-18', u'The selective pressures challenging the human population leave genetic signatures. This study was designed to detect positive and balancing selection on the proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 6 (PCSK6) gene by four different approaches (FDIST, BayeScan, EHH, iHS). The outlier programs FDIST and BayeScan found 27 overlapping single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) under selection, of which twelve are under strong positive directional selection and 15 under balancing selection. In the EHH analysis, all SNPs detected under positive selection show a slow decay of the derived extended haplotype. The integrated haplotype scores (iHS) for eight loci under positive selection were found to be larger than one. Based on these results, we provide a short overview of PCSK6-related mechanisms potentially associated with the detected positive or balancing selection patterns. Positive selection possibly reflects the key role of PCSK6 in tumorigenesis, in nociception, in rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis, in the cardiovascular circulatory as well as in blood pressure regulation. Balancing selection acting on the PCSK6 locus might be explained by its involvement in vertebral left-right asymmetry and therefore in human handedness. Whereas until now the exact nature of the selective pressures acting on PCSK6 remained incompletely understood, the results of this study provide for the first time insights into the enzyme\u2019s evolutionary significance owing to its functional manifoldness.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2141/', ['Anthropology', 'Bioinformatics', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genomics'], [u'Deparment of Anthropology, Universit\xe4t Vienna']]
[u'Computational testing for automated preprocessing: a matlab toolbox for better electroencephalography data processing', ['Benjamin Cowley', 'Jussi Korpela', 'Jari Torniainen'], u'2016-06-17', u'EEG is a rich source of information regarding brain functioning, and is the most lightweight and affordable method of brain imaging. However, the pre-processing of EEG data is quite complicated and most existing tools present the experimenter with a large choice of methods for analysis, but no framework for method comparison to choose an optimal approach. Additionally, many tools still require a high degree of manual decision making for, e.g. the classification of artefacts in channels, epochs or segments. This introduces excessive subjectivity, is slow, and is not reproducible. Batching and well-designed automation can help to regularise EEG preprocessing, and thus minimise human effort, subjectivity, and consequent error. The Computational Testing for Automated Preprocessing (CTAP) toolbox facilitates: i) batch processing that is easy for experts and novices alike; ii) testing and comparison of automated methods. CTAP uses the existing data structure and functions from the well-known EEGLAB tool, based on Matlab, and produces extensive quality control outputs.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2140/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Brain-Computer Interface'], [u'BrainWork Research Centre, Finnish Institute of Occupational Health', u'Cognitive Brain Research Unit, Institute of Behavioural Sciences, University of Helsinki']]
