[u'Thermal treatment and leaching biochar alleviates plant growth inhibition from mobile organic compounds', ['Nigel V Gale', 'Tara E Sackett', 'Sean C Thomas'], u'2016-06-14', u'Recent meta-analyses of plant responses to biochar boast positive average effects of between 10 and 40 %. Plant responses, however, vary greatly across systems, and null or negative biochar effects are increasingly reported. The mechanisms responsible for such responses remain unclear. In a glasshouse experiment we tested the effects of three forestry residue wood biochars, applied at five dosages (0, 5, 10, 20, 50 t/ha) to a temperate forest drystic cambisol as direct surface applications and as complete soil mixes on the herbaceous pioneers Lolium multiflorum and Trifolium repens. Null and negative effects of biochar on growth were found in most cases. One potential cause for null and negative plant responses to biochar is plant exposure to mobile compounds produced during pyrolysis that leach or evolve following additions of biochars to soil. In a second glasshouse experiment we examined the effects of simple leaching and heating techniques to ameliorate potentially phytotoxic effects of volatile and leachable compounds released from biochar. We used Solid Phase Microextraction (SPME) \u2013 gas chromatography \u2013 mass spectrometry (GC-MS) to qualitatively describe organic compounds in both biochar (through headspace extraction), and in the water leachates (through direct injection). Convection heating and water leaching of biochar prior to application alleviated growth inhibition. Additionally, growth was inhibited when filtrate from water-leached biochar was applied following germination. SPME-GC-MS detected primarily short-chained carboxylic acids and phenolics in both the leachates and solid chars, with relatively high concentrations of several known phytotoxic compounds including acetic acid, butyric acid, bisphenol and benzonoic acid. We speculate that variable plant responses to phytotoxic organic compounds leached from biochars may largely explain negative plant growth responses and also account for strongly species-specific patterns plant responses to biochar amendments in short-term experiments.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2123/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Mycology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Faculty of Forestry, University of Toronto']]
[u'Defining ecologically-relevant scales for spatial protection using long-term data on an endangered seabird and local prey availability', ['Richard B Sherley', 'Philna Botha', 'Les G Underhill', 'Peter G Ryan', 'Danie van Zyl', 'Andrew C Cockcroft', 'Robert JM Crawford', 'Bruce M Dyer', 'Timothee R Cook'], u'2016-06-14', u'Human activities are important drivers of marine ecosystem functioning. However, teasing apart the synergistic effects of fishing and environmental variability on the prey base of non-target predators is difficult, often because estimates of prey availability on appropriate scales are lacking. Hence, understanding the links between direct measures of prey abundance and population change can help integrate the needs of non-target predators into fisheries management. Here we investigated the local population response (number of breeders) of bank cormorants Phalacrocorax neglectus, an Endangered seabird, to the availability of its prey, the heavily-fished West Coast rock lobster Jasus lalandii. Using Bayesian state-space modelled counts of cormorants at three colonies, 22 years of fisheries-independent data on local lobster abundance and generalized additive modelling, we determined the spatial-scale pertinent to these relationships in areas of differing lobster abundance. Cormorant numbers responded positively to rock lobster availability in the regions of intermediate and high abundance, but not where regime shifts and fishing pressure have made rock lobster scarce. However, the spatial scale (30 km) at which the relationships were strongest was greater than the cormorants\u2019 foraging range when breeding. Prey availability in the non-breeding season, prey switching and prey ecology can all influence neritic seabirds and should be considered in marine spatial planning. Crucially, though, our results highlight the potential for small-scale marine protected areas (MPAs) to benefit top predators over their full-life cycle by protecting their prey. Precautionary implementation of MPAs, with robust assessment and adaptive-management, could protect predators and their prey without negatively impacting dependent fisheries.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2122/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Environment and Sustainability Institute, University of Exeter', u'Animal Demography Unit, University of Cape Town', u'Percy FitzPatrick Institute, University of Cape Town', u'Marine Research Institute, University of Cape Town', u'Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries', u'Department of Environmental Affairs', u'Institute of Ecology and Environmental Sciences, Universit\xe9 Pierre et Marie Curie  (Paris VI)']]
