[u'10 simple rules for best experimental design in ecology', ['Farwa Sajadi'], u'2016-09-07', u'A quick set of rules on how best to execute an experimental design in ecology. From having a clear hypothesis to obtaining accurate statistics, this guide will help make sure authors are on the right track before publishing. The 10 simple rules are based on articles written to help readers and editors learn more about experimental design and how to avoid any unseeable pitfalls. These rules act as a checklist for authors to go through to make sure they have created the best experimental design for their procedure.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2427/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Statistics'], [u'Science, York University']]
[u'A simple photographic classification of protruding ears', ['JA Lopes-Santos'], u'2016-09-06', u'Backgroud: Protruding ear is the most commonly found auricular populational deformity with significant social consequences. The problem is clearly perceptible in frontal facial images, but a simple photographic classification for prominence has not yet been defined. Methods: Frontal facial images of forty patients with protruding ears and 102 controls were prospectively collected. A rectangle was drawn in each ear, involving its full visible anatomy. The height of each rectangle was divided by its width in each ear. Results: Results show a trend for higher values in the protruding ears group when compared to controls for both ears. Discussion: This finding can be useful for the classification of this auricular deformity.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2426/', ['Anatomy and Physiology', 'Pediatrics', 'Surgery and Surgical Specialties'], [u'Instituto de Ci\xeancias Biom\xe9dicas Abel Salazar (ICBAS), Universidade do Porto', u'Department of Pediatric Surgery, Centro Materno Infantil do Norte (CMIN) / Centro Hospitalar do Porto (CHP)']]
[u'A statistical model for epigenetic control of miRNAs', ['Lisa Barros de Andrade e Sousa', 'Annalisa Marsico'], u'2016-09-06', u'microRNAs are small, non-coding RNAs involved in post-transcriptional gene regulation. Since the dysregulation of only a few miRNAs can affect many biological pathways, miRNAs are thought to play a key role in cancer development and can be used as biomarkers for cancer diagnosis and prognosis. In order to understand how miRNA dysregulation leads to a cancer phenotype it is important to determine the basic regulatory mechanisms that drive miRNA expression. Although much is known about miRNA-mediated post-transcriptional regulation, little is known about the epigenetic control of miRNAs. Here, we performed cell-line specific miRNA promoter predictions and built a classification model for expressed and non-expressed miRNAs based on several epigenetic features, e.g. histone marks and DNA methylation at both, miRNA promoters and around miRNA hairpins. We were able to classify intragenic and intergenic miRNAs with an accuracy of 79% and 85%, respectively, and identified the most important features for classification via feature selection. Surprisingly, we found that DNA methylation seems to have a dual role in regulating miRNA expression at transcriptional level: at promoters, high levels of DNA methylation correlate with transcriptional repression, while around miRNA hairpins high levels of DNA methylation have a positive impact on the expression level of the mature miRNA.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2423/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genomics', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'RNA Bioinformatics Group, Max Planck Institute for Molecular Genetics', u'Institut f\xfcr Informatik, Freie Universit\xe4t Berlin']]
[u'Actin-dependence of the chloroplast cold positioning response in the liverwort Marchantia polymorpha L', ['Shun Kimura', 'Yutaka Kodama'], u'2016-09-06', u'The subcellular positioning of chloroplasts can be changed by alterations in the environment such as light and temperature. For example, in leaf mesophyll cells, chloroplasts localize along anticlinal cell walls under high-intensity light, and along periclinal cell walls under low-intensity light. These types of positioning responses are involved in photosynthetic optimization. In light-mediated chloroplast positioning responses, chloroplasts move to the appropriate positions in an actin-dependent manner, although some exceptions also depend on microtubule. Even under low-intensity light, at low temperature (e.g., 5\xb0C), chloroplasts localize along anticlinal cell walls; this phenomenon is termed chloroplast cold positioning. In this study, we analyzed whether chloroplast cold positioning is dependent on actin filaments and/or microtubules in the liverwort Marchantia polymorpha L. When liverwort cells were treated with drugs for the de-polymerization of actin filaments, chloroplast cold positioning was completely inhibited. In contrast, chloroplast cold positioning was not affected by treatment with a drug for the de-polymerization of microtubules. These observations indicate the actin-dependence of chloroplast cold positioning in M. polymorpha. Actin filaments during the chloroplast cold positioning response were visualized by using fluorescent probes based on fluorescent proteins in living liverwort cells, and thus, their behavior during the chloroplast cold positioning response was documented.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2425/', ['Cell Biology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Center for Bioscience Research and Education, Utsunomiya University']]
[u'Collecting systematic, introspective reports of pharmacological effects and side-effects', ['Gopal P Sarma'], u'2016-09-06', u'The study of subjective, first-person experience is a topic with both philosophical and practical implications. In this article, I discuss the value of collecting a critical mass of prose or verbal descriptions of introspectively determined, subjective effects of pharmacological agents. I suggest that datasets of introspective reports fit in the modern research landscape at the intersection of biomedical informatics and the emerging discipline of contemplative neuroscience. I compare the current proposal to Descriptive Experience Sampling (DES), discuss relevant methodological and conceptual issues in the study of introspection, and provide a list of questions for directing future investigation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2424/', ['Toxicology', 'Evidence Based Medicine', 'Neurology', 'Pharmacology', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'School of Medicine, Emory University']]
[u'Evaluation of reference genes for gene expression in red-tailed phascogale (Phascogale calura) liver, lung, small intestine and spleen', ['Oselyne TW Ong', 'Lauren J Young', 'Julie M Old'], u'2016-09-06', u'Background: Reference genes serve an important role as an endogenous control/standard for data normalisation in gene expression studies. Although reference genes have recently been suggested for marsupials, independent analysis of reference genes on different immune tissues is yet to be tested. Therefore, an assessment of reference genes is needed for the selection of stable, expressed genes across different marsupial tissues.\nMethods: The study was conducted on red-tailed phascogales (Phascogale calura) using five juvenile and five adult males. The stability of five reference genes (glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, GAPDH; \u03b2-Actin, ACTB; 18S rRNA, 18S; 28S rRNA, 28S; and ribosomal protein L13A, RPL13A) was investigated using SYBR Green and analysed with the geNorm application available in qBasePLUS software.\nResults: Gene stability for juvenile and adult tissue samples combined show that GAPDH was most stable in liver and lung tissue, and 18S in small intestine and spleen. While all reference genes were suitable for small intestine and spleen tissues, all reference genes except 28S were stable for lung and only 18S and 28S were stable for liver tissue. Separating the two age groups, we found that two different reference genes were considered stable in juveniles (ACTB and GAPDH) and adults (18S and 28S), and RPL13A was not stable for juvenile small intestine tissue. Except for 28S, all reference genes were stable in juvenile and adult lungs, and all five reference genes were stable in spleen tissue.\nDiscussion: Based on expression stability, ACTB and GAPDH are suitable for all tissues when studying the expression of marsupials in two age groups, except for adult liver tissues. The expression stability between juvenile and adult liver tissue was most unstable, as the stable reference genes for juveniles and adults were different. Juvenile and adult lung, small intestine and spleen share similar stable reference genes, except for small intestine tissues where all reference genes were stable in adults but RPL13A was not suitable in juveniles.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2422/', ['Genomics', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'School of Science and Health, Western Sydney University']]
