[u'Are sites with multiple single nucleotide variants in cancer genomes a consequence of drivers, hypermutable sites or sequencing errors?', ['Thomas C A Smith', 'Antony M Carr', 'Adam C Eyre-Walker'], u'2016-05-30', u'Across indepedent cancer genomes it has been observed that some sites have been recurrently hit by single nucleotide variants (SNVs). Such recurrently hit sites might be either i) drivers of cancer that are postively selected during oncogenesis, ii) due to mutation rate variation, or iii) due to sequencing and assembly errors. We have investigated the cause of recurrently hit sites in a dataset of >3 million SNVs from 507 complete cancer genome sequences. We find evidence that many sites have been hit significantly more often than one would expect by chance, even taking into account the effect of the adjacent nucleotides on the rate of mutation. We find that the density of these recurrently hit sites is higher in non-coding than coding DNA and hence conclude that most of them are unlikely to be drivers. We also find that most of them are found in parts of the genome that are not uniquely mappable and hence are likly to be due to mapping errors. In support of the error hypothesis, we find that recurently hit sites are not randomly distributed across sequences from different laboratories. We fit a model to the data in which the rate of mutation is constant across sites but the rate of error varies. This model suggests that ~4% of all SNVs are error in this dataset, but that the rate of error varies by thousands-of-fold.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2089/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Genetics', 'Genomics'], [u'School of Life Sciences, University of Sussex', u'Genome Damage and Stability Centre, University of Sussex']]
[u'An optimized approach to germ-free rearing in the jewel wasp Nasonia', ['J. Dylan Shropshire', 'Edward J. van Opstal', 'Seth R. Bordenstein'], u'2016-05-30', u'The initial development of the Nasonia in vitro germ-free rearing system in 2012 enabled investigations of Nasonia-microbiota interactions and real-time visualization of metamorphosis. However, the use of antibiotics, bleach, and fetal bovine serum in this in vitro rearing system introduced artifacts relative to conventional rearing of Nasonia. Here, we optimize the germ-free rearing procedure by using filter sterilization in lieu of antibiotics and by removing residual bleach and fetal bovine serum. Comparison of these methods reveals no influence on larval survival or growth, and a 52% improvement in adult production. Additionally, adult males produced in the new germ-free system are similar in size to conventionally reared males. Experimental implications of these changes are discussed.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2088/', ['Ecology', 'Entomology', 'Zoology'], [u'Biological Sciences, Vanderbilt University', u'Biological Sciences and Pathology, Microbiology & Immunology, Vanderbilt University']]
[u'Aquatic insects dealing with dehydration: do desiccation resistance traits differ in species with contrasting habitat preferences?', ['Susana Pallares', 'Josefa Velasco', 'Andres Millan', 'David T. Bilton', 'Paula Arribas'], u'2016-05-30', u'Background. Desiccation resistance shapes the distribution of terrestrial insects at multiple spatial scales. However, responses to desiccation stress have been poorly studied in aquatic groups, despite their potential role in constraining their distribution and diversification, particularly in arid and semi-arid regions. Methods. We examined desiccation resistance in adults of four congeneric water beetle species (Enochrus, family Hydrophilidae) with contrasting habitat specificity (lentic vs lotic systems and different salinity optima from fresh- to hypersaline waters).We measured survival, recovery capacity and key traits related to desiccation resistance (fresh mass, % water content, % cuticle content and water loss rate) under controlled exposure to desiccation, and explored their variability within and between species. Results. Meso- and hypersaline species were more resistant to desiccation than freshwater and hyposaline ones, showing significantly lower water loss rates and higher water content. No clear patterns in desiccation resistance traits were observed between lotic and lentic species. Intraspecifically, water loss rate was positively related to specimens\u2019 initial % water content, but not to fresh mass or % cuticle content, suggesting that the dynamic mechanism controlling water loss is mainly regulated by the amount of body water available. Discussion. Our results support previous hypotheses suggesting that the evolution of desiccation resistance is associated with the colonization of saline habitats by aquatic beetles. The interespecific patterns observed in Enochrus also suggest that freshwater species may be more vulnerable than saline ones to drought intensification expected under climate change in semi-arid regions such as the Mediterranean Basin.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2087/', ['Ecology', 'Entomology'], [u'Department of Ecology and Hydrology, Universidad de Murcia', u'Marine Biology and Ecology Research Centre, School of Marine Science and Engineering, University of Plymouth', u'Department of Life Sciences, Natural History Museum London', u'Department of Life Sciences, Imperial College London', u'Island Ecology and Evolution Research Group, IPNA-CSIC']]
[u'Bacteria surface charge in \u201clayers\u201d: revealed by wash buffers of different ionic strength', ['Wenfa Ng'], u'2016-05-30', u'Bacteria surface charge derives its meaning from the cell\u2019s environment; thus, there is no one specific surface charge. Determining the surface charge of bacteria in its native environment requires measuring the proxy variable, zeta potential, using cells obtained from field studies. However, lack of adequate cell mass and concerns over measurement of a mixed species consortia rather than a specific species meant that bacteria surface charge measurement require biomass obtained from laboratory shake flask pure culture. Often grown in rich medium where myriad proteins and ions nonspecifically adsorbed on the cell envelope or peptidoglycan layer, standard procedures for preparing the cell mass require repeated steps of washing and centrifugation with various wash buffers, the efficacies of which are poorly understood. This report describes a systematic study on how wash buffers of different composition and salinity affect the efficiency of removing nonspecifically adsorbed biomolecules and ions from Escherichia coli DH5a (ATCC 53868) cultured aerobically (shake flask, 37 oC and 230 rpm) in LB Lennox medium. Using zeta potential-pH profiles over pH 1 to 12 as readout, proxy measurement of wash buffers\u2019 efficacies showed that efficiency of removing nonspecifically adsorbed ions and metabolites positively correlates with wash buffer ionic strength. More importantly, 0.15M ionic strength (i.e., 9 g/L NaCl and phosphate buffer saline) seems to be the minimum below which there appeared to be little removal of nonspecifically adsorbed biomolecules (deionized water wash as control). On the other hand, high ionic strength of 0.6M (0.1M sodium citrate) significantly changed the point of zero charge (pHzpc), a reference marker for the removal of ions intrinsic to the cell envelope; thus, indicating significant cell surface damage. Collectively, results obtained provided important pointers for wash buffer choice concerning preservation of cell envelope integrity. Finally, is there a true cell surface charge? Yes, but how to define it? How many \u201clayers\u201d of adsorbed biomolecules? Philosophically, cells in culture broth are coated with layers of metabolites, proteins and ions; hence, desire to reveal the true surface charge is essentially a decoating process, where wash buffers of increasing ionic strength could remove each layer through charge screening. Where is the endpoint? This research suggests that ionic strength of wash buffers chosen should be similar to that of the environment the research is seeking to address. Imagine a single bacterium suspended in LB medium, what is its relevant surface charge? It is the one where the loosely associated ions and metabolites can be removed, similar to the constant adsorption and desorption processes that the cell experiences in its growth environment. Thus, deionized water wash provides a good estimate of the bacteria surface charge as grown in specific medium.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2086/', ['Bioengineering', 'Biophysics', 'Biotechnology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, National University of Singapore']]
[u'Towards evenly distributed grazing patterns: Including social context in sheep management strategies', ['Agustina di Virgilio', 'Juan Manuel Morales'], u'2016-05-30', u"Background: A large proportion of natural grasslands around the world is exposed to overgrazing resulting in land degradation and biodiversity loss. Although there is an increasing effort in the promotion of sustainable livestock management, rangeland degradation still occurs because animals' foraging behaviour is highly selective at different spatial scales. The assessment of the ecological mechanisms modulating the spatial distribution of grazing and how to control it has critical implications for long term conservation of resources and the sustainability of livestock production. Considering the relevance of social interactions on animals\u2019 space use patterns, our aim was to explore the potential effects of including animals\u2019 social context into management strategies using domestic sheep grazing in rangelands as case study. Methods: We used GPS data from 19 Merino sheep (approximately 10% of the flock) grazing on three different paddocks (with sizes from 80 to 1000 Ha) during a year, to estimate resource selection functions of sheep grazing in flocks of different levels of heterogeneity. We assessed the effects of sheep class (i.e., ewes, wethers, and hoggets), age, body condition and time since release on habitat selection patterns. Results: We found that social rank was reflected on sheep habitat use, where dominant individuals (i.e., reproductive females) used more intensively the most preferred areas and low-ranked (i.e., yearlings) used less preferred areas. Our results showed that when sheep grazed on more heterogeneous flocks, grazing patterns were more evenly distributed at all the paddocks considered in this study. On the other hand, when high-ranked individuals were removed from the flock, low-ranked sheep shifted their selection patterns by increasing the use of the most preferred areas and strongly avoided to use less preferred sites (i.e., a highly selective grazing behaviour). Discussion: Although homogenization and segregation of flocks by classes are common practices to increase flock productivity, we are proposing an alternative that employs behavioural interactions in heterogeneous flocks to generate more evenly distributed grazing patterns. This practice can be combined with other practices such as rotational grazing and guardian dogs (to decrease mortality levels that may be generated by sheep grazing on more risky habitats).This does not imply any modifications of livestock stocking rates and densities or any additional investments for labour and materials. Considering livestock behaviour is critical for the design of sustainable management practices that balance landscape conservation and livestock productivity.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2085/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Animal Behavior', 'Ecology'], [u'Grupo de Ecolg\xeda Cuantitativa, INIBIOMA, CONICET-Uncoma']]
[u'Effects of CO2 laser irradiation on matrix-rich biofilm development formation \u2013 An in vitro study', ['Bruna Raquel Zancope', 'Vanessa B Dainezi', 'Marines Nobre-dos-Santos', 'Jr, Sillas Duarte', 'Vanessa Pardi', 'Ramiro M Murata'], u'2016-05-30', u'Background. CO2 laser has been used to morphologically and chemically modify the dental enamel surface as well as to turn it more resistant to demineralization. Despite a variety of experiments demonstrating the inhibitory effect of CO2 laser in reduce enamel demineralization, little is known about the effect of surface irradiated on bacterial growth. Thus, this in vitro study was preformed to evaluate the biofilm formation on enamel previously irradiated with a CO2 laser (\u03bb = 10.6 \xb5M). Methods. For this in vitro study, it was employed 96 specimens of bovine enamel, which were divided into 2 groups (n = 48): 1) Control-non-irradiated surface and 2) Irradiated enamel surface. Biofilms were grown on the enamel specimens by 1, 3 and 5 days under intermittent cariogenic condition in the irradiated and non irradiated surface. In each assessment time, the biofilm were evaluated by dry weigh, counting the number of viable colonies and in fifth day, were evaluated by polysaccharides analysis, quantitative real time PCR as well as by contact angle. In addition, the morphology of biofilms was characterized by fluorescence microscopy and field emission scanning electron microscopy (FESEM). Initially, the assumptions of equal variances and normal distribution of errors were conferred and the results are analyzed statistically by t-test and Mann Whitney test. Results. The mean of log CFU/ml obtained for the 1-day biofilm evaluation showed that there is statistical difference between the experimental groups. When biofilms were exposed to CO2 laser, CFU/mL and CFU/ Dry Weight in 3 day was reduced significantly compared with control group. The difference in the genes expression (gtfB and gbpB) and polysaccharides was not statically significant. Contact angle was increased relative to control when the surface was irradiated with CO2 laser. Similar morphology was also visible with both treatments, however irradiated group revealed evidence of melting and fusion in the specimens. Conclusion. In conclusion CO2 laser irradiation modify the energy surface and disrupt the initial biofilm formation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2084/', ['Biochemistry', 'Dentistry'], [u'Department of Pediatric Dentistry, Piracicaba Dental School, University of Campinas-UNICAMP.', u'Division of Restorative Sciences, Ostrow School of Dentistry of University of Southern California', u'Division of Periodontology, Diagnostic Sciences and Dental Hygiene., Ostrow School of Dentistry of University of Southern California.']]
