[u'Hairiness: the missing link between pollinators and pollination', ['Jamie R Stavert', 'Gustavo Linan-Cembrano', 'Jacqueline R Beggs', 'Brad G Howlett', 'David E Pattemore', 'Ignasi Bartomeus'], u'2016-09-09', u'Functional traits are the primary biotic component driving organism influence on ecosystem functions; in consequence, traits are widely used in ecological research. However, most animal trait-based studies use easy-to-measure characteristics of species that are at best only weakly associated with functions. Animal-mediated pollination is a key ecosystem function and is likely to be influenced by pollinator traits, but to date no one has identified functional traits that are simple to measure and have good predictive power. Here, we show that a simple, easy to measure trait (hairiness) can predict pollinator effectiveness with high accuracy. We used a novel image analysis method to calculate entropy values for insect body surfaces as a measure of hairiness. We evaluated the power of our method for predicting pollinator effectiveness by regressing pollinator hairiness (entropy) against single visit pollen deposition (SVD) and pollen loads on insects. We used linear models and AICC model selection to determine which body regions were the best predictors of SVD and pollen load. We found that hairiness can be used as a robust proxy of SVD. The best models for predicting SVD for the flower species Brassica rapa and Actinidia deliciosa were hairiness on the face and thorax as predictors (R2 = 0.98 and 0.91 respectively). The best model for predicting pollen load for B. rapa was hairiness on the face (R2 = 0.81). Accordingly, we suggest that the match between pollinator body region hairiness and plant reproductive structure morphology is a powerful predictor of pollinator effectiveness. We show that pollinator hairiness is strongly linked to pollination \u2013 an important ecosystem function, and provide a rigorous and time-efficient method for measuring hairiness. Identifying and accurately measuring key traits that drive ecosystem processes is critical as global change increasingly alters ecological communities, and subsequently, ecosystem functions worldwide.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2433/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Entomology', 'Zoology'], [u'Centre for Biodiversity and Biosecurity, School of Biological Sciences, The University of Auckland', u'Instituto de Microelectr\xf3nica de Sevilla CSIC / Universidad de Sevilla', u'The New Zealand Institute for Plant & Food Research Limited', u'The New Zealand Institute for Plant & Food Research Limited', u'Integrative Ecology Department, Estaci\xf3n Biol\xf3gica de Do\xf1ana (EBD-CSIC)']]
[u'The genetic and morphological evolution of fish through Cytochrome C Oxidase Subunit 1 (COX1)', ['Sammer Marzouk'], u'2016-09-08', u'Cytochrome C Oxidase Subunit 1 (COX1) is a protein that helps to catalyze the reduction of water into oxygen in Eukaryotes. Through the analyzation of COX1 from online public genetic databases in 16 species of fish, an evolutionary phylogeny of fish was derived from the data. This paper considered three hypotheses: Axolotl (Ambystoma mexicanum) and Tiktaalik (Tiktaalik roseae) share a common ancestor was determined; that A.gueldenstaedtii and P.spathula both share a common ancestor; and that P.marinus and S.acanthias are the outliers of the phylogeny. The evolutionary phylogeny used the percent ID between the two species of fish. From these differences, analysis is done to 2016. the data and the data is used to make phylogenies based on the morphological and genetic evolution of these fish. From the data derived from the phylogenies, the results demonstrates the claims that Axolotl (Ambystoma mexicanum) and Tiktaalik (Tiktaalik roseae) share a common ancestor was determined, A.gueldenstaedtii and P.spathula both share a common ancestor, and P.marinus and S.acanthias are the outliers of the phylogeny. The data gathered can be used to connect tetrapods to fish, and contribute to the theory that tetrapods came from fish. The information presented in this paper can be used to make a complete phylogeny of all organisms in the biosphere.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2430/', ['Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Histology'], [u'University of Chicago Laboratory Schools']]
[u'What should mobile app developers do about machine learning and energy?', ['Andrea K McIntosh', 'Abram Hindle'], u'2016-09-08', u'Machine learning is a popular method of learning functions from data to represent and to classify sensor inputs, multimedia, emails, and calendar events. Smartphone applications have been integrating more and more intelligence in the form of machine learning. Machine learning functionality now appears on most smartphones as voice recognition, spell checking, word disambiguation, face recognition, translation, spatial reasoning, and even natural language summarization. Excited app developers who want to use machine learning on mobile devices face one serious constraint that they did not face on desktop computers or cloud virtual machines: the end-user\u2019s mobile device has limited battery life, thus computationally intensive tasks can harm end-user\u2019s phone availability by draining batteries of their stored energy. How can developers use machine learning and respect the limited battery life of mobile devices? Currently there are few guidelines for developers who want to employ machine learning on mobile devices yet are concerned about software energy consumption of their applications. In this paper we combine empirical measurements of many different machine learning algorithms with complexity theory to provide concrete and theoretically grounded recommendations to developers who want to employ machine learning on smartphones.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2431/', ['Artificial Intelligence', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Department of Computing Science, University of Alberta']]
[u'Complexity in a facilitative behavior web of piscivores and associated species at Isla del Coco National Park (Eastern Tropical Pacific)', ['Peter J Auster', 'Jorge Cortes'], u'2016-09-08', u'Discerning the role that facilitative behavioral interactions in mixed species groups of hunting piscivores play in growth and survivorship is important both in our fundamental understanding of fish community dynamics and for developing conservation strategies. In this study we collected data on mixed-species hunting groups (species composition, numbers, behavioral interactions) and used both multivariate and network analyses to quantify pair-wise and guild level behavioral relationships. Our results demonstrate that collective behaviors in mixed species hunting groups exhibit consistent patterns of associations within a set of dominant species (10 of 32 species within the network) and are a common attribute of this functional guild within the shallow fish community at Isla del Coco (to 80 m depth), Pacific Costa Rica. Indeed the removal of only a few dominant species from the behavior web model, to simulate overfishing, reduced the number of pair-wise linkages by 57% (32 species with 282 pair-wise links to 28 species with 122 links). The identification of these patterns, assuming they are persistent features of these communities, can be used as a foundation for time-series monitoring to assess status and change in ecological interactions within the higher trophic level guild of fishes. That said, more work is needed to understand the temporal dynamics of network linkages and intensity of interactions as prey resources vary in distribution and abundance. Such information could be used to interpret the nature of multispecies interactions within predator communities and serve as an aid in conservation and management.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2432/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Marine Sciences, University of Connecticut  at Avery Point', u'Centro de Investigaci\xf3n en Ciencias del Mar y Limnolog\xeda (CIMAR), Universidad de Costa Rica']]
[u'Levels metaphor and building blocks\u2014towards a domain granularity framework for the life sciences', ['Lars Vogt'], u'2016-09-08', u"Arranging a heterogeneous collection of entities into a hierarchy of linearly ordered levels (layers or strata) is a general ordering scheme that is a widely used notion for organizing knowledge. On the basis of four specific examples, all of which are relevant in the life sciences, I briefly discuss the diversity of different notions of the underlying levels metaphor. Before I turn to ontology research and Keet's formal theory of granularity, I introduce a specific notion of general building blocks, which gives rise to a hierarchy of levels of building blocks that is intended to function as an organizational backbone for integrating various granular perspectives that are relevant in the life sciences. Each such granular perspective employs its own specific application of the levels metaphor, which is integrated with the other perspectives within a general domain granularity framework for the life sciences. The resulting granularity framework is meant to provide the initial basis on which a desperately required overarching and more comprehensive information framework for the life sciences can be developed.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2429/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Zoology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Institut f\xfcr Evolutionsbiologie und \xd6kologie, Universit\xe4t Bonn']]
