[u'In-silico prediction and modeling of the Entamoeba histolytica proteins: Serine-rich Entamoeba histolytica protein and peroxiredoxin', ['Kumar Manochitra', 'Subhash Chandra Parija'], u'2016-08-25', u'Background: Amoebiasis is the third most common parasitic cause of morbidity and mortality particularly in countries with poor hygienic settings. There exists an ambiguity in the diagnosis of amoebiasis, and hence arises a necessity for a better diagnostic approach. Serine-rich Entamoeba histolytica protein (SREHP), peroxiredoxin and Gal/GalNAc lectin are pivotal in E. histolytica virulence and are extensively studied as diagnostic and vaccine targets. For elucidating the cellular function of these proteins, details regarding their respective quaternary structures are essential which are not available till date. Hence, this study was carried out to predict the structure of these target proteins and characterize them structurally as well as functionally using relevant in-silico methods.\nMethods:The amino acid sequences of the proteins were retrieved from National Centre for Biotechnology Information database and aligned using ClustalW. Bioinformatic tools were employed in the secondary structure and tertiary structure prediction. The predicted structure was validated, and final refinement was carried out.\nResults: The protein structures predicted by i-TASSER were found to be more accurate than Phyre2 based on the validation using SAVES server. The prediction suggests SREHP to be a extracellular protein, peroxiredoxin was a peripheral membrane protein, while Gal/GalAc was found to be a cell-wall protein. Signal peptides were found in the amino-acid sequences of SREHP and Gal/GalNAc, whereas they were not present in the peroxiredoxin sequence. Gal/GalNAc lectin showed better antigenicity than the other two proteins studied. All three proteins exhibited similarity in their structures and were mostly composed of loops.\nDiscussion:The structures of SREHP and peroxiredoxin were predicted successfully, while the structure of Gal/GalNAc lectin could not be predicted as it was a complex protein composed of three sub-units. Also, this protein showed less similarity with the available structural homologs. The quaternary structures predicted from this study would provide better structural and functional insights into these proteins and may aid in development of newer diagnostic assays or enhancement of the available treatment modalities.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2392/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Department of Microbiology, Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research']]
[u'Getting off the impact factor: an antidote', ['Aleksey V Belikov'], u'2016-08-25', u'Articles published in high Impact factor (IF) journals receive higher visibility and attached prestige, regardless of their actual scientific merit. This results in unfair gain in subsequent number of citations to these articles, which also further increases the journals\u2019 IFs. While there is a gradual move in assessment of researchers from IFs towards individual performance metrics, such as the h-index, those metrics are calculated on the basis of citation counts, and hence are still affected by the described phenomena. Naturally, this leads to increased submission and rejection rates in high IF journals, considerably delaying publication of manuscripts and wasting researchers\u2019 time. Additionally, an article\u2019s visibility increases with time, as it accumulates citations, thus severely disadvantaging new articles and early-career researchers. Here I propose a simple method for evaluation of individual articles and researchers that compensates for the effects of the journal IF and article age. In essence, the number of citations to an article is divided by the median number of citations to the articles published in the same journal in the same year. This ratio indicates the performance of an article relative to its closest competitors, is free from journal and age bias, and thus reflects an article\u2019s scientific merit. An author\u2019s (or institution\u2019s) index is calculated as the sum of these article scores. Widespread adoption of this index, especially by decision-making authorities, will refocus scientists from besieging elitist journals to actually doing research.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2391/', ['Science Policy', 'Statistics'], [u'Non affiliated']]
