[u'Angling for data: Recreational anglers\u2019 records of conger eel (Conger conger) landings from the English Channel between 1990-1991', ['Magnus L Johnson', 'Philip Wheeler'], u'2016-08-15', u'Declines in commercial fish stocks have been well documented through government records of catches. Here we demonstrate that records from anglers, if appropriately interpreted, can be used to provide detailed retrospective data on population trends in fish species. We highlight this with reference to records of conger eel from the British Conger Club that show a decline in size and abundance of conger through the 1990s, during which time the commercial extraction of the species increased markedly. Anglers\u2019 records are a potentially important source of quantitative data on population trends of a number of poorly studied species.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2361/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science'], [u'Centre for Environmental and Marine Sciences, University of Hull', u'Department of Environment, Earth and Ecosystems, The Open University']]
[u'Determination of histamine levels in long-tail tuna (Thunnus tonggol) stored at different temperature', ['Nurul Aina Syuhada Mahusain', 'Fernandes Bayoi', 'Nurul Ulfah Karim', 'Mohd Khairi Zainol', 'Muhd Danish-Daniel'], u'2016-08-15', u'Histidine is precursor for histamine (4-(2-aminoethyl) imidazole) formation through a process called decarboxylation with the aid of histidine decarboxylase enzyme possessed by particular bacterial species. Since storage temperature is highly influenced the formation of histamine, a study regarding histamine and bacterial count was conducted. Long-tail tuna was stored at -20, 4, 15, 25 and 37 \u030aC and analysis of bacteria and histamine was done for every 48 hours till reaching 196 hours for freezing and chilling storage temperature. Histamine determination and bacterial count was taken for every 0, 6, 12,18 and 24 hours for 15, 25 and 37 \u030aC. At 0 day of storage for -20\u030a C, gut and non gut fish samples showed histamine level of 3.496 mg/100. Reduction of histamine levels took place after 48 hours of storage but increased later throughout the storage period up to 8 days, reaching a value of 4.84 and 3.78 mg/100 g for gut and non gut tuna, respectively. Similar trend of result was seen at 4 \u030aC where a gradual increase of histamine concentration was observed throughout the storage period. However, the histamine level in gut tuna exceeded the safety level at day 8. At temperature 15 and 25 \u030aC, the gut fish meat is not safe for consumption at 24 hours. Meanwhile, the safety limit can be seen within 12 hours and 18 hours of storage in gut and non gut fish stored at 37 \u030aC, respectively. For bacterial cell enumeration, at -20 \u030aC, the initial count of bacteria is 5.4 Log CFU/g for both fish condition. The count then slightly increased to 6.28 and 5.91 for gutted and non gutted respectively at 48 hours till reaching last storage time. Similar trend was recorded at 4, 15, 25 and 37 \u030aC from time to time. However, bacterial count is largely seen at 37 \u030aC. This may be due to the presence of spoilage bacteria that can deteriorate the quality of fish.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2360/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Food Science and Technology'], [u'School of Fisheries and Aquaculture Sciences, Universiti Malaysia Terengganu', u'School of Food Science and Technology, Universiti Malaysia Terengganu', u'Institute of Marine Biotechnology, Universiti Malaysia Terengganu']]
[u'Determination of the optimal bacteriophage dose to control Pseudomonas aeruginosa using evolutionary programming and stochastic kinetics', ['Diana C Ardila', 'Juan D Castro', 'Angela V Holguin', 'Viviana Clavijo', 'Catalina Prada', 'Martha J Vives', 'Andres F Andres Gonzalez Barrios'], u'2016-08-15', u'Phage-therapy is a promising alternative against pathogenic, multiple drug resistant bacteria. In this work we propose an algorithm to determine the optimal bacteriophage dose able to minimize a population of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Reverse engineering was used to determine the kinetic parameters; subsequently, a bi-level optimization platform was implemented for a model based on evolutionary programming. Our prediction of optimal dose was tested in vitro with planktonic cultures of P. aeruginosa. From the data obtained, we conclude that reverse engineering and stochastic simulations are a useful approach to find optimal phage doses against pathogenic bacteria, an important step for the implementation of phage-therapy.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2359/', ['Computational Biology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Chemical Engineering, Universidad de Los Andes', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Universidad de Los Andes']]
[u'Effects of grazing intensity and the use of veterinary medical products on dung beetle biodiversity in the sub-mountainous landscape of Central Italy', ['Mattia Tonelli', 'Jose R. Verdu', 'Mario E. Zunino'], u'2016-08-15', u'Grazing extensification and intensification are among the main problems affecting European grasslands. We analyze the impact of grazing intensity (low and moderate) and the use of veterinary medical products (VMPs) on the dung beetle community in the province of Pesaro-Urbino (Italy). Grazing intensity is a key factor in explaining the diversity of dung beetles. In the case of the alpha diversity component, sites with a low level of grazing activity \u2013 related in a previous step to the subsequent abandonment of traditional farming \u2013 is characterized by a loss of species richness (q = 0) and a reduction in alpha diversity at the levels q = 1 and q = 2. In the case of beta diversity, sites with a different grazing intensity show remarkable differences in terms of the composition of their species assemblages. The use of VMPs is another important factor in explaining changes in dung beetle diversity. In sites with a traditional use of VMPs, a significant loss of species richness and biomass is observed, as is a notable effect on beta diversity. In addition, the absence of indicator species in sites with a historical use of VMPs corroborates the hypothesis that these substances have a ubiquitous effect on dung beetles. However, the interaction between grazing activity and VMPs when it comes to explaining changes in dung beetle diversity is less significant (or is not significant) than the main effects (each factor separately) for alpha diversity, biomass and species composition. This may be explained if we consider that both factors affect the various species differently. In other words, the reduction in dung availability affects several larger species more than it does very small species, although this does not imply that the former are more susceptible to injury caused by the ingestion of dung contaminated with VMPs. Finally, in order to prevent negative consequences for dung beetle diversity, we propose the maintenance of a moderate grazing intensity and the rational use of VMPs. It is our view that organic management can prevent excessive extensification while providing an economic stimulus to the sector. Simultaneously, it can also prevent the abuse of VMPs.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2358/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Entomology', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Department of Pure and Applied Science, University of Urbino', u'I.U.I. CIBIO, Universidad de Alicante', u'School of Biodiversity, Asti University Centre for Advanced Studies']]
[u'The underestimation of global microbial diversity', ['Jay T Lennon', 'Kenneth J Locey'], u'2016-08-15', u'In a recent commentary, Amann and Rossell\xf3-M\xf3rab summarize how the census of Bacteria and Archaea has changed over time (1). For decades, the number of recognized microbial taxa was underestimated owing to limitations associated with culture-based methods and the rules of nomenclature. The authors describe a "quantum leap" in the estimates of global microbial diversity following advances in high-throughput sequencing technology. Despite this, Amann and Rossell\xf3-M\xf3rab project that a complete census of microbial diversity will be reached within a few years culminating in the lower millions of taxa (1). While perhaps attractively optimistic to some, this presumption is misleading for the following reasons.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2357/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Microbiology', 'Taxonomy', 'Statistics'], [u'Department of Biology, Indiana University']]
[u'PrimerMiner: an R package for development and in silico validation of DNA metabarcoding primers', ['Vasco Elbrecht', 'Florian Leese'], u'2016-08-15', u'1) DNA metabarcoding is a powerful tool to assess biodiversity by amplifying and sequencing a standardized gene marker region. Its success is often limited due to variable binding sites that introduce amplification biases. Thus the development of optimized primers for communities or taxa under study in a certain geographic region and/or ecosystems is of critical importance. However, no tool for obtaining and processing of reference sequence data in bulk that serve as a backbone for primer design is currently available.\n2) We developed the R package PrimerMiner, which batch downloads DNA barcode gene sequences from BOLD and NCBI databases for specified target taxonomic groups and then applies sequence clustering into operational taxonomic units (OTUs) to reduce biases introduced by the different number of available sequences per species. Additionally, PrimerMiner offers functionalities to evaluate primers in silico, which are in our opinion more realistic then the strategy employed in another available software for that purpose, ecoPCR.\n3) We used PrimerMiner to download cytochrome c oxidase subunit I (COI) sequences for 15 important freshwater invertebrate groups, relevant for ecosystem assessment. By processing COI markers from both databases, we were able to increase the amount of reference data 249-fold on average, compared to using complete mitochondrial genomes alone. Furthermore, we visualized the generated OTU sequence alignments and describe how to evaluate primers in silico using PrimerMiner.\n4) With PrimerMiner we provide a useful tool to obtain relevant sequence data for targeted primer development and evaluation. The OTU based reference alignments generated with PrimerMiner can be used for manual primer design, or processed with bioinformatic tools for primer development.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2352/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Ecology', 'Genetics', 'Molecular Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Aquatic Ecosystem Research, University of Duisburg-Essen', u'Centre for Water and Environmental Research (ZWU) Essen, University of Duisburg-Essen']]
[u'Genetic signatures of ecological diversity along an urbanization gradient', ['Ryan P. Kelly', "James L O'Donnell", 'Natalie C. Lowell', 'Andrew O. Shelton', 'Jameal F. Samhouri', 'Shannon M. Hennessey', 'Blake E. Feist', 'Gregory D. Williams'], u'2016-08-15', u'Despite decades of work in environmental science and ecology, estimating human influences on ecosystems remains challenging. This is partly due to complex chains of causation among ecosystem elements, exacerbated by the difficulty of collecting biological data at sufficient spatial, temporal, and taxonomic scales. Here, we demonstrate the utility of environmental DNA (eDNA) for quantifying associations between human land use and changes in an adjacent ecosystem. We analyze metazoan eDNA sequences from water sampled in nearshore marine eelgrass communities and assess the relationship between these ecological communities and the degree of urbanization in the surrounding watershed. Counter to conventional wisdom, we find strongly increasing richness and decreasing beta diversity with greater urbanization, and similar trends in the diversity of life histories with urbanization. We also find evidence that urbanization influences nearshore communities at local (hundreds of meters) rather than regional (tens of km) scales. Given that different survey methods sample different components of an ecosystem, we then discuss the advantages of eDNA\u2014which we use here to detect hundreds of taxa simultaneously\u2014as a complement to traditional ecological sampling, particularly in the context of broad ecological assessments where exhaustive manual sampling is impractical. Genetic data are a powerful means of uncovering human-ecosystem interactions that might otherwise remain hidden; nevertheless, no sampling method reveals the whole of a biological community.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2356/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'School of Marine and Environmental Affairs, University of Washington', u'School of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences, University of Washington', u'Northwest Fisheries Science Center, NOAA Fisheries', u'Department of Integrative Biology, Oregon State University']]
[u'Targeted manipulation of neuronal activity in behaving adult flies', ['Stefanie Hampel', 'Andrew Michael Seeds'], u'2016-08-15', u'The ability to control the activity of specific neurons in freely behaving animals provides an effective way to probe the contributions of neural circuits to behavior. Wide interest in studying principles of neural circuit function using the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster has fueled the construction of an extensive transgenic toolkit for performing such neural manipulations. Here we describe approaches for using these tools to manipulate the activity of specific neurons and assess how those manipulations impact the behavior of flies. We also describe methods for examining connectivity among multiple neurons that together form a neural circuit controlling a specific behavior. This work provides a resource for researchers interested in examining how neurons and neural circuits contribute to the rich repertoire of behaviors performed by flies.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2354/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Genetics', 'Neuroscience'], [u'Janelia Research Campus, Howard Hughes Medical Institute']]
[u'Intertidal barnacle recruitment in Nova Scotia (Canada) between 2005\u20132016: relationships with sea surface temperature and phytoplankton abundance', ['Ricardo A Scrosati', 'Julius A Ellrich'], u'2016-08-15', u'On the Gulf of St. Lawrence coast of Nova Scotia (Canada), recruitment of the barnacle Semibalanus balanoides occurs in May and June. Every year in June between 2005 and 2016, we recorded recruit density for this barnacle at the same wave-exposed rocky intertidal location on this coast. During these 12 years, mean recruit density was lowest in 2015 (198 recruits dm-2) and highest in 2007 (969 recruits dm-2). The highest recruit density observed in a single quadrat was 1457 recruits dm-2 (in 2011) and the lowest density was 34 recruits dm-2 (in 2015). Most barnacle recruits appear during May, which suggests that most pelagic larvae, which develop over five-to-six weeks and originate the recruits, are in the water column in April. A model selection approach identified sea surface temperature (SST) in April and the abundance of phytoplankton (food for barnacle larvae, measured as chlorophyll-a concentration \u2013Chl-a\u2013) in April as good explanatory variables. Together, April SST and Chl-a explained 51 % of the observed interannual variation in recruit density with an overall positive influence. April SST was positively related to March\u2013April air temperature. April Chl-a was negatively related to the April ratio between the number of days with onshore winds (which blow from phytoplankton-limited offshore waters) and the number of days with alongshore winds (coastal phytoplankton is higher on coastal waters). Therefore, these observations suggest that climatic processes affecting April SST and Chl-a indirectly influence intertidal barnacle recruitment by influencing larval performance.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2355/', ['Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Biology, St. Francis Xavier University']]
[u'Fear of predators as an ecosystem service', ['Liana Y Zanette', 'Michael Clinchy'], u'2016-08-15', u'The fear that predators instill in prey induces short-term anti-predator behaviours across every animal taxa that are beneficial in avoiding immediate death, but carry costs; one of the most well-established being that scared prey eat less. These findings, that animals stop eating to avoid being eaten under perceived predation risk, are not controversial. What is controversial is whether such fear effects can be long-term and powerful enough to affect wildlife prey populations and generate trophic cascades. For example, some have suggested that the restoration of wolves to Yellowstone National Park also restored the fear of predators, reducing elk foraging and in turn the pregnancy rate, contributing to rapidly declining elk numbers. Other Yellowstone researchers have suggested that the restoration of fear has generated a trophic cascade whereby scared elk eat less, increasing the food that elk eat. The prospect that fear can help restore populations and ecosystems has critical management implications, but to implement a management plan fear effects must be quantified. Indeed, the enormous amount of often acrimonious debate centred on whether fear can affect populations and ecosystems lingers in both the scientific and public policy domains because studies have largely been based on natural experiments. Manipulations that establish whether fear effects actually do exist for wildlife can help resolve management debates, and are critical for conservation and management on a global scale because the status of large carnivores world-wide is quite dismal with 77 % of species in decline. Public policy would also benefit because if restoring large carnivores also restores fear such that degraded ecosystems can become healthy again, then this has real implications for human lives and livelihoods. We present research from our lab and others, in which perceived predation risk has been experimentally manipulated in free-living wildlife. The results to date definitively demonstrate that fear effects do exist. Fear alters prey foraging behaviour, and fearful prey in turn produce 50 % fewer offspring; fear permanently impairs the reproduction of surviving offspring; and restoring the fear of large carnivores generates cascading effects down at least four tiers in the food chain. Given the enormous effects that fear has in nature, we elaborate on how manipulating fear using sound can be a particularly useful management tool for diagnosing and treating environmental ills. We describe a new system we have designed (Automated Behavioural Response systems-ABRs) that allows any researcher working on any wildlife species to conduct manipulations that quantify fear effects. We conclude that fear has its uses. Fear is good for the environment and as such, management may sometimes need to inject fear artificially for short-term goals (e.g. crop protection) but in many cases, the best and cheapest long-term solution might be to restore native predators where lost.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2353/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Biology, University of Western Ontario']]
