[u'Hypergravity hinders axonal development of motor neurons in Caenorhabditis elegans', ['Saraswathi Subbammal Kalichamy', 'Tong Young Lee', 'Kyoung-hye Yoon', 'Jin Il Lee'], u'2016-08-17', u'As space flight becomes more accessible in the future, humans will be exposed to gravity conditions other than our 1G environment on Earth. Changes in physiology and anatomy in altered gravity conditions have long been observed, especially the loss of muscle mass during long-term space habitation, the reason for which is not fully understood. Although much effort has gone into studying the effects of gravity in muscle physiology, its effect on the development of neurons has not been thoroughly assessed. Using the nematode model organism Caenorhabditis elegans, we examined changes in response to hypergravity in the development of the 19 GABAergic DD/VD motor neurons that innervate body muscle. We found that a high gravity force above 10G significantly increases the number of animals with defects in the development of axonal projections from the DD/VD neurons. We showed that a critical period of hypergravity exposure during the embryonic/early larval stage was sufficient to induce defects. While characterizing the nature of the axonal defects, we found that in normal 1G gravity conditions, DD/VD axonal defects occasionally occurred, with the majority of defects occurring on the dorsal side of the animal and in the mid-body region, and a significantly higher rate of error in the 13 VD axons than the 6 DD axons. Hypergravity exposure increased the rate of DD/VD axonal defects, but did not change the distribution or the characteristics of the defects. Our study demonstrates that in addition to gravity\u2019s effects on muscle development, gravity can also impact motor neuron development.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2363/', ['Developmental Biology', 'Genetics', 'Neuroscience'], [u'Division Of Biological Science and Technology, Yonsei University']]
[u'Supply-side barriers to maternal health care utilization at health sub-centres in India', ['Aditya Singh'], u'2016-08-16', u'Introduction: There exist several barriers to maternal health service utilization in developing countries. Most of the previous studies conducted in India have focused on demand-side barriers, while only a few have touched upon supply-side barriers. None of the previous studies in India have investigated the factors that affect maternal health care utilization at Health Sub-Centers (HSC) in India, despite the fact that these institutions, as the nearest available public healthcare facilities in rural areas, play a significant role in providing affordable maternal health care. Therefore, this study aims to examine the supply-side determinants of maternal service utilization at HSCs in rural India.\nData and Methods: This study uses health facility data from the nationally representative District-Level Household Survey, which was collected in 2007\u20132008 to examine the effect of supply-side variables on the utilization of maternal healthcare services across HSCs in rural India. Since the dependent variables (the number of antenatal registrations, in-facility deliveries, and postnatal care services) are count variables with considerable dispersion, the data has been analyzed using negative binomial regression instead of Poisson regression.\nResults: The results show that those HSCs run by a contractual auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) are likely to offer a lower volume of services when compared to those run by a permanent ANM. The availability of obstetric drugs, weighing scale, blood pressure equipment is associated with the increased utilization of antenatal and postnatal services. The unavailability of labor/examination table and bed screen is associated with a reduction in the number of safe deliveries and postnatal services. The utilization of services is expected to increase if essential facilities, such as water, telephone, toilet, and electricity, are available at HSCs. Monitoring of an ANM\u2019s work by the Village Health and Sanitation Committee (VHSC) and the in-service training of ANMs appear to have a positive impact on the utilization of services. The distance of an ANM\u2019s actual residence from the sub-center village where she works is negatively associated with the utilization of delivery and postnatal services. These findings are robust to the inclusion of several demand-side factors.\nConclusion: To improve maternal healthcare utilization at sub-centers, the government should ensure the availability of basic infrastructure, drugs, and equipment at all sub-centers. Monitoring of ANMs\u2019 work by VHSCs could play an important role in improving healthcare utilization at the HSCs; therefore, it is important to establish VHSCs in each sub-center village. The issue of the relatively low utilization of maternity services in the HSCs that are run solely by contractual ANMs needs to be investigated further.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2362/', ['Global Health', 'Health Policy', 'Nursing', 'Public Health', "Women's Health"], [u'Global Health and Social Care Unit, School of Health Sciences and Social Work, University of Portsmouth']]
