[u'Standardizing unique molecular identifiers in SAM flags would benefit more than RNA-Seq', ['Elisha D Roberson'], u'2016-09-20', u'Unique Molecular Identifiers (UMIs) have been incorporated into RNA-Seq experiments to overcome issues with abundance estimation from samples that may have many PCR amplification cycles. However, the use of UMIs in many different types of sequencing experiments could be beneficial, including amplicon sequencing, ATAC-Seq, and ChIP-Seq. Furthermore, UMIs help to overcome artifacts in high-coverage DNA-Seq, and would enable more accurate RNA-Seq genotyping and allele-specific expression calculation. The main advantage of using UMIs is that identical molecules that are true PCR duplicates can be discerned from unique molecules with identical break points.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2465/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genetics', 'Genomics'], [u'Departments of Medicine & Genetics, Division of Rheumatology, Washington University']]
[u'Potential connectivity among American lobster fisheries as a result of larval drift across the species\u2019 range in eastern North America', ['Brady K. Quinn', 'Joel Chasse', 'Remy Rochette'], u'2016-09-20', u'We used a bio-physical model to estimate for the first time the effect of larval drift on potential connectivity among American lobster (Homarus americanus) fisheries management areas over the geographic range of the species. The model predicted drift of larvae over distances of 50-805 km (mean = 129 km), which connected many management areas and caused marked spatial heterogeneity in retention and self-seeding versus import and export of larvae by different fisheries areas. Including mortality functions in the model resulted in less drift and settlement, and had complex effects on the amount, but not on the incidence, of connectivity among fisheries. The model\u2019s predictions received support from comparison of predicted settlement to landings six or seven years later in some (but not all) parts of the model domain, although improvements are needed to capture spatial variability in larval release and drift across the species\u2019 range. This information is important to lobster fisheries management, as the amount and direction of connectivity between fisheries can inform cooperative management strategies to sustain interconnected fisheries.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2464/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, University of New Brunswick', u'Fisheries and Oceans Canada, Gulf Region, Maurice Lamontagne Institute']]
[u'Cost hurdles to open access publishing: A citizen scientist perspective', ['Wenfa Ng'], u'2016-09-20', u'Besides offering fun activities for non-scientists to explore the natural world through experiments, simulations or games, the evolving concept of citizen science is increasingly allowing some serious publication quality science to be published by the practitioners (citizen scientists) themselves. The latter is in contrast to the common perception of citizen science, where most citizen science projects such as Foldit are distribution of piecemeal segments of complex projects suitable for solution by individuals, and where the results are pooled together, or used to inform the design and direction of more complex research initiatives. Usually novices in science publishing but nonetheless aware of the importance of journal articles as the primary medium for communicating new research to the wider community (scientific and general public), citizen scientists do encounter significant challenges in science publication. One challenge is in navigating the lengthy and time-consuming peer review process of most journals. But, as benefactors of open access publishing where most journal articles are within pay walls inaccessible to citizen scientists without any research funding, open access publishing is one platform sought after or exist as an option for citizen scientists. Is the option open? Yes, at the preprint level where figshare, and PeerJ Preprints help provide an avenue for citizen scientists to have a published non peer reviewed article online, but no at the higher end \u201cjournal article\u201d level where the manuscript needs to be peer reviewed. Even the biological sciences preprint server, bioRxiv, is closed to citizen scientists as publication on the server requires an institution affiliation with either a university or research institute. Most open access publishers (except eLife) charge a publication fee (in the thousands of dollars per article) to defray the cost of maintaining an online presence for a peer reviewed manuscript as well as those for copyediting during final stages of journal publication. This is a significant barrier to cost constrained citizen scientists who want to contribute to the scientific discourse. For the scientific enterprise, this represent a loss, whose magnitude or severity cannot be quantified since ideas help seed new research or entirely new fields. Thus, can we as a community provide citizen scientists worldwide a chance to publish open access peer reviewed articles without significant cost through a competitive publication fee subsidy scheme where each application is reviewed by the national science funding agency? If the above is possible, it would open up another area where ideas from citizen scientists could percolate into the scientific mainstream, where, as always, vibrancy and diversity of ideas power science forward.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2463/', ['Science Policy'], [u'Novena']]
[u'Opportunities drive the global distribution of protected areas', ['German Baldi', 'Marcos Texeira', 'Osvaldo A Martin', 'H. Ricardo Grau', 'Esteban G Jobbagy'], u'2016-09-20', u'Background. The establishment of protected areas, regarded today as a cornerstone of nature conservation, resulted from a multiple array of motivations and opportunities. We explore at global and regional levels, the current distribution of protected areas along biophysical, human, and biological gradients, and assess to what extent protection pursued (i) a balanced representation of biophysical environments, (ii) a set of preferred conditions (biological, spiritual, economical, or geopolitical) or (iii) lands where conservation opportunities exist. Methods. We described with histograms the distribution of terrestrial protected areas along physical, human, and biological independent gradients. Linear and non-linear regressions and correlations led to a general description of sign, shape, and strength of the relationships; a random forest analysis led to a importance ranking of the variables related to individual preferential motivations and opportunistic forces; and an evenness metric seized the strength of variables related to individual representative motivations. Results. We found that globally protection was primarily driven by the opportunities provided by isolation and a low population density (variable importance = 34.6 and 19.9, respectively). Preferences played a secondary role, with a bias towards tourist attractions and international borders (variable importance = 12.7 and 3.4, respectively). Opportunities shaped protection strongly in North America & Australia\u2013NZ and Latin America & Caribbean, while the representativeness of biophysical environments was higher in Sub-Saharan Africa (1.3 times the average of other regions). Discussion. Our results suggest that in spite of being a top priority in land conservation agendas, environmental representativeness and biodiversity protection are still minor players driving protection at global and regional levels, and that the attempts to increase their relevance will necessarily have to recognize the predominant weight that other drivers are playing in the protected areas deployment.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2461/', ['Biogeography', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology'], [u'Instituto de Matem\xe1tica Aplicada San Luis, Universidad Nacional de San Luis & CONICET', u'Departamento de M\xe9todos Cuantitativos y Sistemas de Informaci\xf3n, Facultad de Agronom\xeda, Universidad de Buenos Aires', u'Universidad de Buenos Aires & CONICET, Instituto de Investigaciones Fisiol\xf3gicas y Ecol\xf3gicas Vinculadas a la Agricultura', u'Instituto de Ecolog\xeda Regional, Universidad Nacional de Tucum\xe1n & CONICET', u'Instituto de Matem\xe1tica Aplicada San Luis, Universidad Nacional de San Luis & CONICET, CONICET']]
[u'Indomethacin reproducibly induces metamorphosis in Cassiopea xamachana scyphistomae', ['Patricia Cabrales-Arellano', 'Tania Islas-Flores', 'Patricia E. Thome', 'Marco A. Villanueva'], u'2016-09-20', u"Cassiopea xamachana jellyfish are an attractive model system to study metamorphosis and/or cnidarian-dinoflagellate symbiosis due to the ease of cultivation of their planula larvae and scyphistomae through their asexual cycle, in which the latter can bud new larvae and continue the cycle without differentiation into ephyrae. Then, a subsequent induction of metamorphosis and full differentiation into ephyrae is believed to occur when the symbionts are acquired by the scyphistomae. Although strobilation induction and differentiation into ephyrae can be accomplished in various ways, a controlled, reproducible metamorphosis induction has not been reported. Such controlled metamorphosis induction is necessary for an ensured synchronicity and reproducibility of biological, biochemical and molecular analyses. For this purpose, we tested if differentiation could be pharmacologically stimulated as in Aurelia aurita, by the metamorphic inducers thyroxine, KI, NaI, lugol's iodine, H2O2, indomethacin, or retinol. We found reproducibly induced strobilation by 50 \xb5M indomethacin after 6 days of exposure, and 10-25 \xb5M after 7 days. Strobilation under optimal conditions reached 80-100% with subsequent ephyrae release after exposure. Thyroxine yielded inconsistent results as it caused strobilation occasionally, while all other chemicals had no effect. Thus, indomethacin can be used as a convenient tool for assessment of biological phenomena through a controlled metamorphic process in C. xamachana scyphistomae.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2462/', ['Developmental Biology', 'Marine Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Unidad Acad\xe9mica de Sistemas Arrecifales, Instituto de Ciencias del Mar y Limnolog\xeda-UNAM', u'Posgrado en Ciencias del Mar y Limnolog\xeda-UNAM, Instituto de Ciencias del Mar y Limnolog\xeda-UNAM']]
[u'The psychometric properties of a Scale for Achievement Motive in Rehabilitation, and the effects of achievement motive on self-efficacy, hopelessness, and economic poverty for community-dwelling elderly people using rehabilitation services', ['Nobuyuki Sano', 'Makoto Kyougoku'], u'2016-09-20', u'Background: Achievement motive is expected to prevent lack of self-efficacy and hope, which negatively impact rehabilitation support, health, and psychological well-being. It has been indicated that the factor structure of the Scale for Achievement Motive in Rehabilitation (SAMR), which was developed to evaluate the state of achievement motive in clients, is affected by gender, age, and type of disorder; however, the item responses for the SAMR have not been fully elucidated.\nPurpose: This study demonstrates the effects of achievement motive on self-efficacy, hopelessness, and economic poverty. The secondary purpose was to test the psychometric properties for the robustness of factor analysis and the item responses for the SAMR.\nMethods: A cross-sectional study was conducted to assess achievement motive, self-efficacy, hopelessness, and economic poverty in 581 community-dwelling elderly people. Data from a self-administered questionnaire were analyzed for structural relationship, using a structural equation modeling approach, multi-group confirmatory factor analysis, and multidimensional item response theory.\nResults: For structural relationship, the modified model indicated an adequate model fit level {Comparative Fit Index (CFI) = 0.914, Tucker Lewis Index (TLI) = 0.906, Root Mean Square Error of Approximation (RMSEA) = 0.062, 90% Confidence Interval (CI) [0.058, 0.066]}, with significant effects among achievement motive, self-efficacy, and hopelessness; i.e., the direct and indirect effects of achievement motive on self-efficacy and hopelessness were accepted. For multi-group confirmatory factor analysis, the SAMR factor structure displayed strong measurement invariance across the group for gender, care level, and age. For multidimensional item response theory, the results showed enough item discrimination and difficulty intensity for each SAMR item.\nDiscussion: This study suggests that achievement motive is important to prevent clients from missing and giving up their goals and to execute support in rehabilitation smoothly. In addition, we suggest that SAMR is a structurally valid scale to measure two-factor structures across different groups, and the item characteristics and total score enable proper understanding of achievement motive.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2459/', ['Epidemiology', 'Evidence Based Medicine', 'Geriatrics', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public Health'], [u'Kibi International University of Japan Health Welfare Laboratory', u'Department of Occupational Therapy, School of Health Sciences and Social Welfare, Kibi International University']]
[u'Identification of suitable reference genes for real-time quantitative PCR analysis of hydrogen peroxide-treated human umbilical vein endothelial cells', ['Tianyi Li', 'Hongying Diao', 'Lei Zhao', 'Yue Xing', 'Jichang Zhang', 'Ning Liu', 'Youyou Yan', 'Xin Tian', 'Wei Sun', 'Bin Liu'], u'2016-09-20', u'Background. Oxidative stress could induce cell injury in vascular endothelial cells, which is the initial event in the development of atherosclerosis. Although quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) has been widely used in gene expression studies in oxidative stress injuries, using carefully validated reference genes has not cause sufficient attention in related researches. The objective of this study, therefore, was to select a set of stably expressed reference genes for use in qRT-PCR normalization in oxidative stress injuries in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) induced by hydrogen peroxide (H2O2).\nMethods. HUVECs were treated with different concentrations of H2O2, geNorm and NormFinder software were conducted to evaluate the expression stabilities of 15 candidate reference genes. The optimal number of reference genes needed for qRT-PCR was determined using geNorm.\nResults. Using geNorm analysis, we found that five stably expressed reference genes were sufficient for normalization in qRT-PCR analysis in HUVECs treated with H2O2. Genes with the most stable expression according to geNorm were U6 and TFRC, RPLP0, GAPDH and ACTB, and were ALAS1, TFRC, U6, GAPDH, and ACTB according to NormFinder.\nDiscussion. Taken together, our study demonstrated that the expression stability of reference genes may differ according to the statistical program used. U6, TFRC, RPLP0, GAPDH, and ACTB was the optimal set of reference genes for studies on gene expression with qRT-PCR assays in HUVECs under oxidative stress study.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2460/', ['Cell Biology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Cardiology'], [u'Department of Cardiology, the Second Hospital of Jilin University']]
