[u'Hierarchical multistate models from population data: An application to parity statuses', ['Robert Schoen'], u'2016-06-15', u'Hierarchical models are characterized by having N living states connected by N\u20131 rates of transfer. Demographic measures for such models can be calculated directly from counts of the number of persons in each state at two nearby points in time. Exploiting the ability of population stocks to determine the flows in hierarchical models expands the range of demographic analysis.\nThe value of such analyses is illustrated by an application to childbearing, where the states of interest reflect the number of children a woman has born. Using Census data on the distribution of women by age and parity, a parity status life table for U.S. Women, 2005-2010, is constructed. That analysis shows that nearly a quarter of American women are likely to remain childless, with a 0-3 child pattern replacing the 2-4 child pattern of the past.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2128/', ['Public Health', "Women's Health", 'Statistics'], [u'Population Research Institute, Pennsylvania State University']]
[u'Observation analysis tool for the FREEWAT GIS environment for water resources management', ['Massimiliano Cannata', 'Jakob Neumann', 'Mirko Cardoso', 'Rudy Rossetto', 'Laura Foglia'], u'2016-06-15', u'The Observation Analysis Tool was developed for the FREEWAT GIS environment in order to integrate the data offered by state-of-the-art monitoring systems directly into numerical simulations for water resources management. Time-series are an important aspect of environmental modelling, and are becoming more available through the requirements of the water framework directive as well as more important with the advancement of numerical simulation techniques and increased model complexity. OAT enables time-series visualisation, pre-processing of data for model development, and post-processing of model results. The tool contains an expandable Python library of processes, incorporating a participatory approach to development. As well as processing MODFLOW results, OAT can act as a pre-processor for calibration observations, and will be expanded to incorporate its processing capabilities directly into the calibration process.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2127/', ['Data Science', 'Databases', 'Optimization Theory and Computation', 'Scientific Computing and Simulation'], [u'Dipartimento Ambiente Costruzione e Design, Scuola Universitaria Professionale della Svizzera Italiana - SUPSI', u'Land Lab, Scuola Superiore S. Anna', u'Technischen Universit\xe4t Darmstadt']]
[u'Trace elements during primordial plexiform network formation in human cerebral organoids', ['Rafaela C Sartore', 'Simone C Cardoso', 'Yuri V Lages', 'Julia M Paraguassu', 'Rodrigo F Madeiro da Costa', 'Marilia ZP Guimaraes', 'Carlos A Perez', 'Stevens K Rehen'], u'2016-06-15', u'Systematic studies of micronutrients during brain formation are hindered by restrictions to animal models and adult post-mortem tissues. Recently, advances in stem cell biology have enabled recapitulation of the early stages of human telencephalon development. In the present work, we exposed cerebral organoids derived from human pluripotent stem cells to synchrotron radiation in order to measure how biologically valuable micronutrients are incorporated and distributed in the exogenously developing brain. Our findings indicate that elemental inclusion in organoids is consistent with human brain tissue and involves calcium, iron, phosphorus, potassium, sulfur, and zinc. Local trends in concentrations suggest a switch from passive to actively mediated transport across cell membranes. Finally, correlational analysis for pairs of elements shows spatially conserved patterns, suggesting they may physically associate, be stored in similar compartments or used in related biological processes. These findings might reflect which trace elements are important during human brain development and will support studies aimed to unravel the consequences of disrupted metal homeostasis for neurodevelopmental diseases, including those manifested in adulthood.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2126/', ['Developmental Biology', 'Neuroscience'], [u"IDOR, D'Or Institute for Research and Education", u'Instituto de Ci\xeancias Biom\xe9dicas, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro', u'Instituto de F\xedsica, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro', u'Brazilian Synchrotron Light Laboratory']]
[u'Gene expression studies in different genotypes of an ectomycorrhizal fungus require a high number of reliable reference genes', ['Joske Ruytinx', 'Tony Remans', 'Jan V Colpaert'], u'2016-06-15', u'Quantitative reverse transcription PCR (qRT-PCR) has become the standard technique for the expression analysis of a set of chosen genes of interest. The accuracy and reliability of qRT-PCR measurements strongly depends on the normalization with appropriate endogenous reference genes. In this study a set of candidate reference genes for the use in gene expression studies of a basidiomycete fungus, Suillus luteus, exposed to toxic concentrations of zinc or cadmium was identified, evaluated and validated. Seven candidate genes were selected from cDNA-AFLP as stably expressed and the algorithms geNorm and Normfinder were used to evaluate these genes alongside the traditionally used housekeeping genes (actin, tubulin) in different S. luteus isolates. The use of several S. luteus isolates revealed that each isolate has its own most stably expressed set of reference genes, regardless of the metal treatments, in casu metal exposures. Metal treatments had only a minor impact on the expression of the candidate reference genes. The validated reference genes outperform the in fungal research commonly used single, arbitrary chosen (\u201chousekeeping\u201d) genes in terms of reliability, and have the potential to be suitable reference genes when studying the effect of other environmental factors. A relatively high number of reference genes is required to correct for intraspecific variability when studying natural populations.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2125/', ['Ecology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Centrum voor Milieukunde, Universiteit Hasselt', u'Environmental Biology Research Group, Universiteit Hasselt']]
[u'Assessment of spectral properties of Apollo 12 landing site', ['Yann H Chemin', 'Ian A Crawford', 'Peter Grindrod', 'Louise Alexander'], u'2016-06-15', u'The geology and mineralogy of the Apollo 12 landing site has been the subject of recent studies that this research attempts to complement from a remote sensing point of view using the Moon Mineralogy Mapper (M3) sensor data, onboard the Chandrayaan-1 lunar orbiter. It is a higher spatial-spectral resolution sensor than the Clementine UVVis sensor and gives the opportunity to study the lunar surface with a comparatively more detailed spectral resolution.\nThe M3 signatures are showing a monotonic featureless increment, with very low reflectance, suggesting a mature regolith. The regolith maturity is splitting the landing site in a younger Northwest and older Southeast. The mineral identification using the lunar sample spectra from within the Relab database found some similarity to a basaltic rock/glass mix. The spectrum features of clinopyroxene have been found in the Copernican rays and at the landing site. Lateral mixing increases FeO content away from the central part of the ray. The presence of clinopyroxene in the pigeonite basalt in the stratigraphy of the landing site brings forth some complexity in differentiating the Copernican ray\u2019s clinopyroxene from the local source, as the spectra are twins but for their vertical shift in reflectance, reducing away from the central part of the ray.\nSpatial variations in mineralogy were not found mostly because of the pixel size compared to the landing site area. The contribution to stratigraphy is limited to the topmost layer which is a clinopyroxene-dominated basalt belonging to the most remote tip of a Copernican ray and its resulting local regolith mix.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2124/', ['Algorithms and Analysis of Algorithms', 'Data Science', 'Scientific Computing and Simulation', 'Spatial and Geographic Information Systems'], [u'Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, Birkbeck College, University of London']]
