[u'Enhancing fisheries education in Canada: The need for interdisciplinarity, collaboration, and inclusivity', ['Katrine Turgeon', 'Sarah C.F. Hawkshaw', 'Kristin M. Dinning', 'Brady K. Quinn', 'Danielle N. Edwards', 'Catarina Wor', 'Courtenay E. Parlee', 'Allan Debertin', 'Mike Hawkshaw', 'Benjamin W. Nelson', 'Fan Zhang', 'Laura M Benestan', 'Eric Angel', 'Bryan L. Morse', 'Daniel Mombourquette'], u'2016-07-14', u'The Canadian Fisheries Research Network (CFRN) was initiated to increase interdisciplinary research capacity through enhanced, cross-sector collaboration. Training in the CFRN was important and unique for students because of the exposure to the realities of industry, government and academics working in close collaboration. As CFRN students, our goal for this paper was to assess whether Canada is appropriately preparing the next generation of fisheries graduates to tackle complex fisheries management problems. This assessment consisted of 1) a systematic review of fisheries-related education across Canada, 2) a reflection on our experience in the CFRN, and 3) comments on the importance of inclusive and interdisciplinary approaches in fisheries education and fisheries research. Based on our assessment, we concluded that the availability of fisheries education in Canada is limited, particularly with respect to interdisciplinary training. We contend that the CFRN enhanced our educational experience by fostering interdisciplinary and inclusive fisheries research. We recommend that the CFRN model be considered both in the development of fisheries education initiatives and in the design of future fisheries research.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2291/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Science and Medical Education', 'Science Policy', 'Coupled Natural and Human Systems'], [u'Departement of Biology, McGill University', u'Institute for the Oceans and Fisheries, University of British Columbia', u'Department of Biological Sciences, University of New Brunswick', u'School of Graduate Studies, University of New Brunswick', u'Department of Integrative Biology, University of Guelph', u'D\xe9partement de Biologie, Institut de Biologie Int\xe9grative et des Syst\xe8mes, Universit\xe9 Laval', u'School of Resource and Environmental Management, Simon Fraser University', u"School of the Environment, St. Mary's University"]]
