[u'Derivation of an aquatic benchmark for invertebrates potentially exposed to imidacloprid', ['Dwayne RJ Moore', 'Colleen D Greer', 'Melissa Whitfield-Aslund', 'Lisa M Bowers', 'Sean McGee', 'Jane Tang'], u'2016-11-08', u'Water quality benchmarks are developed by many jurisdictions worldwide with the general goal of identifying concentrations that protect aquatic communities. Imidacloprid is a widely-used neonicotinoid insecticide for which benchmark values vary widely between North America and Europe. For example, the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) and Dutch National Institute for Public Health and the Environment (RIVM) recently established chronic water quality benchmarks for imidacloprid of 0.009 and 0.0083 \xb5g/L, respectively. In Canada and the United States (US), however, the current chronic water quality benchmarks \u2013 termed aquatic life benchmark by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (US EPA) \u2013 for freshwater biota are orders of magnitude higher, i.e., 0.23 and 1.05 \xb5g/L, respectively. Historically, aquatic benchmarks for imidacloprid have been derived for invertebrates because they are the most sensitive aquatic receptors. To date, derivation of water quality benchmarks for imidacloprid have relied on the results of laboratory-based toxicity tests on single invertebrate species. Such tests do not account for environmental factors affecting bioavailability and toxicity or species interactions and potential for recovery. Microcosm, mesocosm and field studies are available for aquatic invertebrate communities exposed to imidacloprid. These higher tier studies are more representative of the natural environment and can be used to derive a chronic benchmark for imidacloprid. A water quality benchmark based on the results of higher tier studies is protective of freshwater invertebrate communities without the uncertainty associated with extrapolating from laboratory studies to field conditions. We used the results of higher tier studies to derive a chronic water quality benchmark for imidacloprid as follows: (1) for each taxon (family, subfamily or class depending on the study), we determined the most sensitive 21-day No Observed Effects Concentration (NOEC), (2) we fit the taxon NOECs to five distributions and determined the best-fit distribution, and (3) we determined the HC5 from the best-fit distribution. The higher tier chronic HC5 for imidacloprid is 1.01 \xb5g/L, which is close to the current US EPA chronic aquatic life benchmark of 1.05 \xb5g/L.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2584/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Toxicology'], [u'Intrinsik Environmental Sciences (US), Inc.', u'Intrinsik Corp.', u'CropScience, Bayer', u'Bayer CropScience']]
