[u'The evidence of porcine hemagglutinating encephalomyelitis virus induced nonsuppurative encephalitis as the cause of death in piglets', ['Zi Li', 'Wenqi He', 'Yungang Lan', 'Kui Zhao', 'Xiaoling Lv', 'Huijun Lu', 'Ning Ding', 'Jing Zhang', 'Junchao Shi', 'Changjian Shan', 'Feng Gao'], u'2016-08-12', u'An acute outbreak of porcine hemagglutinating encephalomyelitis virus (PHEV) infection in piglets, characterized with neurological symptoms, vomiting, diarrhea, and wasting, occurred in China. Coronavirus-like particles were observed in the homogenized tissue suspensions of the brain of dead piglets by electron microscopy, and a wild PHEV strain was isolated, characterized, and designated as PHEV-CC14. Histopathologic examinations of the dead piglets showed characteristics of non-suppurative encephalitis, and some neurons in the cerebral cortex were degenerated and necrotic, and neuronophagia. Similarly, mice inoculated with PHEV-CC14 were found to have central nervous system (CNS) dysfunction, with symptoms of depression, arched waists, standing and vellicating front claws. Furthmore, PHEV-positive labeling of neurons in cortices of dead piglets and infected mice supported the viral infections of the nervous system. Then, the major structural genes of PHEV-CC14 were sequenced and phylogenetically analyzed, and the strain shared 95%-99.2% nt identity with the other PHEV strains available in GenBank. Phylogenetic analysis clearly proved that the wild strain clustered into a subclass with a HEV-JT06 strain. These findings suggested that the virus had a strong tropism for CNS, in this way, inducing nonsuppurative encephalitis as the cause of death in piglets. Simultaneously, the predicted risk of widespread transmission showed a certain variation among the PHEV strains currently circulating around the world. Above all, the information presented in this study can not only provide good reference for the experimental diagnosis of PHEV infection for pig breeding, but also promote its new effective vaccine development.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2351/', ['Veterinary Medicine', 'Virology'], [u'Key Laboratory of Zoonosis, Ministry of Education, College of Veterinary Medicine, Jilin University', u'Key Laboratory of Zoonosis, Ministry of Education, Institute of Zoonosis, Jilin University']]
[u'A clinical audit cycle of post-operative hypothermia in dogs', ['Nicole Rose', 'Grace PS Kwong', 'Daniel SJ Pang'], u'2016-08-11', u'Objectives: Use of clinical audits to assess and improve perioperative hypothermia management in client-owned dogs. Methods: Two clinical audits were performed. Audit 1: data were collected to determine the incidence and duration of perioperative hypothermia (defined rectal temperatures < 37.5\u02daC). The results from Audit 1 were presented to clinic staff and a consensus reached on changes to be implemented to improve temperature management. Following one month with the changes in place, Audit 2 was performed to assess performance. Results: Audit 1 revealed a high incidence of post-operative hypothermia (88.9%) and prolonged time periods for animals to reach normothermia. Following discussion, a consensus was reached to: 1. measure rectal temperatures hourly post-operatively until a temperature \u2265 37.5\u02daC was achieved and 2. use a forced air warmer on all dogs until rectal temperature was \u2265 37\u02da5. After one month with the implemented changes, Audit 2 identified a significant reduction in the time to achieve a rectal temperature of \u2265 37.5\u02daC, with 75% of dogs achieving this goal by 3.5 hours (7.5 hours for Audit 1, p = 0.01). The incidence of hypothermia at extubation remained high in Audit 2 (97.3% with a rectal temperature < 37.5\u02daC). Clinical significance: Post-operative hypothermia was improved through simple changes in practice, showing that clinical audit is a useful tool for monitoring post-operative hypothermia and improving patient care. Overall management of perioperative hypothermia could be further improved with earlier intervention.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2350/', ['Veterinary Medicine', 'Anaesthesiology and Pain Management'], [u'Western Veterinary Specialist and Emergency Centre', u'Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University of Calgary', u'Veterinary Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences, University of Calgary']]
[u'Lactobacillus plantarum immobilized onto soymilk residue (Okara) for the enhancement of soymilk fermentation and cell survival under simulated gastrointestinal conditions', ['Xia Xiudong', 'Wang Ying', 'Liu Xiaoli', 'Li Ying', 'Zhou Jianzhong'], u'2016-08-11', u'Cell immobilization is an alternative to microencapsulation for the maintenance of cells in a liquid medium. However, artificial immobilization carriers are expensive and pose a high safety risk. This study aimed to evaluate the potential of okara, a food-grade byproduct from soymilk production, as a natural immobilizer for L. plantarum 70810 cells. The study also aimed to evaluate the effects of okara-immobilized L. plantarum 70810 cells on soymilk fermentation, glucosidic isoflavone bioconversion, and cell resistance to gastrointestinal (GI) stress. Scanning electron microscopy revealed that the lactobacilli cells attached and bound to okara\u2019s surface. Compared with the free cells (FL), immobilized Lactobacillus plantarum (IL) cells exhibited a significantly higher specific growth rate and shorter lag phase of growth, a faster decrease in pH and increase in titrable acidity, and a higher soymilk viscosity. Similarly, IL in soymilk showed higher productions of daizein and genistein compared with the control. Compared with FL, IL showed reinforced resistance to simulatedGI stress in vitro that included low pH, low pH plus pepsin, pancreatin, and bile salt. Our results indicate that okara is a new potential immobilization carrier to enhance the growth and glucosidic isoflavone bioconversion activities of L. plantarum in soymilk and improve cell survivability following GI transit.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2349/', ['Biotechnology', 'Food Science and Technology'], [u'Institute of Agro-Product Processing, Jiangsu Academy of Agricultural Sciences']]
