[u'How are topics born? Understanding the research dynamics preceding the emergence of new areas', ['Angelo A Salatino', 'Francesco Osborne', 'Enrico Motta'], u'2016-07-20', u'The ability to recognise new research trends early is strategic for many stakeholders, such as academics, institutional funding bodies, academic publishers and companies. While the state of the art presents several works on the identification of novel research topics, detecting the emergence of a new research area at a very early stage, i.e., when the area has not been even explicitly labelled and is associated with very few publications, is still an open challenge. This limitation hinders the ability of the aforementioned stakeholders to timely react to the emergence of new areas in the research landscape. In this paper, we address this issue by hypothesising the existence of an embryonic stage for research topics and by suggesting that topics in this phase can actually be detected by analysing diachronically the co-occurrence graph of already established topics. To confirm our hypothesis, we performed a study of the dynamics preceding the creation of novel topics. This analysis showed that the emergence of new topics is actually anticipated by a significant increase of the pace of collaboration and density in the co-occurrence graphs of related research areas. These findings are very relevant to a number of research communities and stakeholders. Firstly, they confirm the existence of an embryonic phase in the development of research topics and suggest that it might be possible to perform very early detection of research topics by taking into account the aforementioned dynamics. Secondly, they bring new empirical evidence to related theories in Philosophy of Science. Finally, they suggest that significant new topics tend to emerge in an environment in which previously less interconnected research areas start cross-fertilising.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2306/', ['Artificial Intelligence', 'Data Science', 'Digital Libraries'], [u'Knowledge Media Institute, The Open University']]
[u'Computational characterization and epitope prediction for Bet-v1 like protein of Cannabis sativa', ['Zarrin Basharat'], u'2016-07-20', u'Cannabis sativa encodes a Bet-v1 like protein is an allergen and a causuative agent of pollen allergy. Multiple sequence alignment of this protein revealed conserved residues in Betv1 domain. Identification of linear epitopes of this protein was done after preliminary bioinformatics characterization and structure prediction. Structure prediction was done using Modeller software and minimized using Swiss PDBViewer. Six linear epitopes were then, predicted using EMBOSS antigenic program. Phylogenetic analysis of Bet-v1 with other sequences demonstrated divergence patterns with allergens of other species but revealed conserved residues in allergenic epitopes. This study can serve as an informational aid in the development of hypoallergenic vaccine for Cannabis sativa allergy.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2305/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Department of Environmental Sciences, Fatima Jinnah Women University']]
[u'Inferring microevolution from museum collections and resampling: lessons learned from Cepaea', ['Malgorzata  Ozgo', 'Thor-Seng Liew', 'Nicole B Webster', 'Menno Schilthuizen'], u'2016-07-20', u'Studies documenting Human-Induced Rapid Evolutionary Change (HIREC) routinely compare contemporary allele or morph frequency distributions with historical baselines. All too often, this involves the re-sampling of a population that was sampled at a single time point in the past. However, year-to-year fluctuations in magnitude and direction of evolutionary response may make such studies prone to erroneous conclusions, where long-term evolutionary trends are inferred from what in fact are short-term fluctuations. Here, we explore this problem by re-sampling three Dutch populations of the land snail Cepaea nemoralis, whose shell colour polymorphism is known to be under thermal and predatory selection. Each of these three populations was originally sampled in at least two different years in the past. We show that conclusions on evolutionary change are strongly dependent on which of the historical sample dates is used for comparison with the contemporary sample. Our study highlights the fact that year-to-year variation in allele frequencies may often be so strong that a simple two-point comparison is unreliable to detect long-term evolutionary trends.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2304/', ['Environmental Sciences', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Zoology'], [u'Dept. of Evolutionary Biology, Kazimierz Wielki University', u'Institute for Tropical Biology and Conservation, Universiti Malaysia Sabah', u'Institute Biology Leiden, Leiden Univerisity', u'Endless Forms Group, Naturalis Biodiversity Center']]
