[u'An updated assessment of Symbiodinium that associate with common scleractinian corals from Moorea (French Polynesia) reveals high diversity among background symbionts and a novel finding of clade B.', ['Heloise Rouze', 'Gael J Lecellier', 'Denis Saulnier', 'Serge Planes', 'Yannick Gueguen', 'Herman H Wirshing', 'Veronique Berteaux-Lecellier'], u'2016-11-22', u'The adaptative bleaching hypothesis (ABH) states that depending on the symbiotic flexibility of coral hosts (i.e., the ability of corals to \u201cswitch\u201d or \u201cshuffle\u201d their algal symbionts), coral bleaching can lead to a change in the composition of their associated Symbiodinium community, and, thus, contribute to the coral\u2019s overall survival. In order to determine the flexibility of corals, molecular tools are required to provide accurate species delineations, and to detect low levels of coral-associated Symbiodinium. Here, we used highly sensitive quantitative (real-time) PCR (qPCR) technology to analyse five common coral species from Moorea (French Polynesia), previously screened using only traditional conventional molecular methods, to assess the presence of low-abundance (background) Symbiodinium. Similar to other studies, each coral species exhibited a strong specificity to a particular clade, irrespective of the environment. In addition, however, each of the five species harboured at least one additional Symbiodinium clade, among clades A-D, at background levels. Unexpectedly, and for the first time in French Polynesia, clade B was detected as a coral symbiont. These results increase the number of known coral-Symbiodinium associations from corals found in French Polynesia, and likely indicate an underestimation of the ability of the corals in this region to associate with and/or \u201cshuffle\u201d different Symbiodinium clades. Altogether our data suggest that corals from French Polynesia may manage a trade-off between optimizing symbioses with a specific Symbiodinium clade(s), and maintaining associations with particular background clades that may play a role in the ability of corals to respond to environmental change.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2607/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'PSL CRIOBE USR3278 CNRS-EPHE-UPVD, Labex CORAIL', u'Universit\xe9 de Paris Saclay, Departement de Biologie _ Versailles-Saint Quentin', u'UMR241 EIO Ifremer-ILM-IRD-UPF, Labex CORAIL', u'UMR5244 IHPE, CNRS-Ifremer-UM-UPVD, Universit\xe9 de Montpellier', u'Department of Invertebrate Zoology, Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History']]
[u'Tram tracks as specific anthropogenic habitats for the growth of plants', ['Paulina Woznica', 'Alina Urbisz', 'Andrzej Urbisz', 'Izabella Franiel'], u'2016-11-22', u'Although tramway tracks are found in most cities, their flora is not thoroughly researched. Many more studies relate to railway areas as specific anthropogenic habitats for the development of plants. Both railway and tram tracks represent specific ecological migration corridors for plants. The objective of this study was to determine the relationship between the floristic composition and selected soil parameters of tram tracks. In 2014-2015, floristic studies were carried out along tram tracks in the Upper Silesian conurbation (southern Poland). Depending on the dominant species, five groups of sites with varying floristic composition were distinguished. Five plots with an area of 1 m2 were randomly selected in each of the sites. The species composition was determined at each plot together with the cover-abundance of all species occurring at a given plot according to Westhoff\u2019s and van Maarel\u2019s scale. Soil samples were collected from each plot and analysed for pH, the content of biogenic elements and heavy metals. A total of 329 species of vascular plants were identified on the tram tracks of the surveyed area, and 40 species on the plots. The dominant species included: Amaranthus retroflexus, Achillea millefolium, Plantago lanceolata, Hieracium pilosella, Silene vulgaris, Taraxacum sp. and Trifolium repens. Grouping of plots in respect of soil factors largely reflects their species composition. It has been found that the content of nitrate nitrogen, lead and phosphorus has the strongest impact on the floristic diversity of the railway tracks. Based on these parameters, three groups of species were distinguished: nitrophytes, metallophytes and common, i.e. not closely associated with the studied soil properties. Three habitat types of varying plant species composition were distinguished based on the content of nitrate nitrogen and lead: 1) nitrophilous dominated by Amaranthus retroflexus, 2) with increased content of heavy metals, dominated by Silene vulgaris and 3) mesotrophic dominated by meadow species (Achillea millefolium, Plantago lanceolata, Hieracium pilosella, Taraxacum sp., Trifolium repens).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2606/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of Botany and Nature Protection, Faculty of Biology and Environmental Protection, University of Silesia', u'Department of Ecology, Faculty of Biology and Environmental Protect, Uniwersity of Silesia']]
