[u'Cyberinfrastructure for an integrated botanical information network to investigate the ecological impacts of global climate change on plant biodiversity', ['Brian J Enquist', 'Rick Condit', 'Robert K Peet', 'Mark Schildhauer', 'Barbara M. Thiers'], u'2016-12-05', u'To answer many of the major questions in comparative botany, ecology, and global change biology it is necessary to extrapolate across enormous geographic, temporal and taxonomic scales. Yet much ecological knowledge is still based on observations conducted within a local area or even a few hundred square meters. Understanding ecological patterns and how plants respond to global warming and human alteration of landscapes and ecosystems necessitates a holistic approach. Such an approach must be conducted at a scale that is commensurate with the breadth of the questions being asked. Further, it requires identification, retrieval, and integration of diverse data from a global confederation of collaborating scientists across a broad range of disciplines. We propose to network core databases and data networks to create a novel resource for quantitative plant biodiversity science. The grand challenge is to assemble and share the world\u2019s rapidly accumulating botanical information from plots and collections to create a distributed, web-accessible, readily analyzable data resource. With such a resource, we will answer major questions of direct relevance to plant ecology, plant evolution, plant geography, conservation, global change biology, and protection of biodiversity and ecosystem services. In particular, how does climate influence the distribution and abundance of plant species, how does the phylogenetic diversity of plants vary across broad environmental and climatic gradients, and how are plants assembled into ecological communities? While these and associated questions are at the core of many research endeavors in comparative botany and ecology, our past collective inability to integrate data on a large scale has significantly limited our ability to address these questions head on. This proposed Grand Challenge team will create a data resource of unprecedented size and scope together with the tools for its use, thereby empowering botanists and the general public to better address fundamental issues in plant ecology and global change biology. Although we will focus on plants of the New World, the infrastructure and protocols developed will be scalable to all geographic regions and all types of organisms. Future steps will enable cross-cutting linkages to emerging networks on plant genomics, physiology, and phylogeny, allowing us to address fundamental genetic and evolutionary questions at unprecedented spatial and temporal scales.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2615/', ['Biodiversity', 'Biogeography', 'Bioinformatics', 'Ecology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Arizona', u'Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute,, Center for Tropical Forest Science, Global Forest Observatory Network,', u'Biology Department, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill', u'National Center for Ecological Analysis and Synthesis', u'William and Lynda Steere Herbarium at the New York Botanical Garden,']]
[u'Challenges as enablers for high quality linked data: Insights from the semantic publishing challenge', ['Anastasia Dimou', 'Sahar Vahdati', 'Angelo Di Iorio', 'Christoph Lange', 'Ruben Verborgh', 'Erik Mannens'], u'2016-12-05', u'While most challenges organized so far in the Semantic Web domain are focused on comparing tools with respect to different criteria such as their features and competencies, or exploiting semantically enriched data, the Semantic Web Evaluation Challenges series, co-located with the ESWC Semantic Web Conference, aims to compare them based on their output, namely the produced dataset. The Semantic Publishing Challenge is one of these challenges. Its goal is to involve participants in extracting data from heterogeneous sources on scholarly publications, and producing Linked Data that can be exploited by the community itself. This paper reviews lessons learned from both (i) the overall organization of the Semantic Publishing Challenge, regarding the definition of the tasks, building the input dataset and forming the evaluation, and (ii) the results produced by the participants, regarding the proposed approaches, the used tools, the preferred vocabularies and the results produced in the three editions of 2014, 2015 and 2016. We compared these lessons to other Semantic Web Evaluation challenges. In this paper, we (i) distill best practices for organizing such challenges that could be applied to similar events, and (ii) report observations on Linked Data publishing derived from the submitted solutions. We conclude that higher quality may be achieved when Linked Data is produced as a result of a challenge, because the competition becomes an incentive, while solutions become better with respect to Linked Data publishing best practices when they are evaluated against the rules of the challenge.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2616/', ['Data Science', 'Digital Libraries', 'Emerging Technologies', 'World Wide Web and Web Science'], [u'Faculty of Engineering and Architecture, Ghent University', u'imec', u'Department of Intelligent Systems, University of Bonn', u'Department of Computer Science and Engineering, University of Bologna', u'Enterprise Information Systems, Fraunhofer IAIS']]
