[u'The GEOBASI (Geochemical Database of Tuscany) open source tools', ['Manuela Corongiu', 'Brunella Raco', 'Antonella Buccianti', 'Patrizia Macera', 'Riccardo Mari', 'Stefano Romanelli', 'Barbara Nisi', 'Stefano Menichetti'], u'2016-07-12', u'The tools implemented for the new Regional Geochemical Database, called GEOBASI, are hereafter presented. The database has permitted the construction of a repository where the geochemical information (compositional and isotopic) has been stored in a structured way so that it can be available for different groups of users (e.g. institutional, public and private companies). The information contained in the database can in fact be downloaded freely and queried to correlate geochemistry to other non compositional variables. The repository has been aimed at promoting the use of the geochemical data already available from previous investigations through a powerful Web-GIS interface. The resulting graphical-numerical tools in such a complex database have been developed to: 1) analyse the spatial variability of the investigated context, 2) highlight the geographic location of data pertaining to classes of values or single cases, 3) compare the results of different analytical methodologies applied to the determination of the same element and/or chemical species, 4) extract the geochemical data related to specific monitoring plans and/or geographical areas, and finally 5) recover information about data below the detection limit to understand their impact on the behaviour of the investigated variable.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2283/', ['Databases', 'Graphics', 'Spatial and Geographic Information Systems', 'World Wide Web and Web Science'], [u'Consorzio LaMMA', u'IGG - Istituto di Geoscienze e Georisorse, CNR National Research Council', u'Dipartimento di Scienze della Terra, University of Florence', u'Department of Earth Science, University of Pisa', u'Ibimet - Istituto di Biometeorologia, CNR National Research Council', u'ARPAT SIRA, Tuscany Region']]
[u'Isolation of an antimicrobial compound produced by bacteria associated with reef-building corals', ['Jean-Baptiste Raina', 'Dianne Tapiolas', 'Cherie A Motti', 'Sylvain Foret', 'Torsten Seemann', 'Jan Tebben', 'Bette L Willis', 'David G Bourne'], u'2016-07-12', u'Bacterial communities associated with healthy corals produce antimicrobial compounds that inhibit the colonization and growth of invasive microbes and potential pathogens. To date, however, bacteria-derived antimicrobial molecules have not been identified in reef-building corals. Here we report the isolation of an antimicrobial compound produced by Pseudovibrio sp. P12, a common and abundant coral-associated bacterium. This strain was capable of metabolizing dimethylsulfoniopropionate (DMSP), a sulfur molecule produced in high concentrations by reef-building corals and playing a role in structuring their bacterial communities. Bioassay-guided fractionation coupled with nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) and mass spectrometry (MS), identified the antimicrobial as tropodithietic acid (TDA), a sulfur-containing compound likely derived from DMSP catabolism. TDA was produced in large quantities by Pseudovibrio sp., and prevented the growth of two previously identified coral pathogens, Vibrio coralliilyticus and V. owensii, at very low concentrations (0.5 \xb5g/mL) in agar diffusion assays. Genome sequencing of Pseudovibrio sp. P12 identified gene homologs likely involved in the metabolism of DMSP and production of TDA. These results provide additional evidence for the integral role of DMSP in structuring coral-associated bacterial communities and underline the potential of these DMSP-metabolizing microbes to contribute to coral disease prevention.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2282/', ['Marine Biology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Climate Change Cluster (C3), University of Technology Sydney', u'Australian Institute of Marine Science', u'James Cook University, Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Coral Reef Studies', u'Marine Biology and Aquaculture, College of Science and Engineering, James Cook University of North Queensland', u'James Cook University, AIMS@JCU', u'Research School of Biology, Australian National University', u'Victorian Life Sciences Computation Initiative, University of Melbourne', u'Section Chemical Ecology, Alfred Wegener Institute', u'University of New South Wales']]
[u'Compacting and correcting Trinity and Oases RNA-Seq de novo assemblies', ['Cedric Cabau', 'Frederic Escudie', 'Anis Djari', 'Yann Guiguen', 'Julien Bobe', 'Christophe Klopp'], u'2016-07-12', u'Background\nDe novo transcriptome assembly of short reads is now a common step in expression analysis of organisms lacking a reference genome sequence. Several software packages are available to perform this task. Even if their results are of good quality it is still possible to improve them in several ways including redundancy reduction or error correction. Trinity and Oases are two commonly used de novo transcriptome assemblers. The contig sets they produce are of good quality. Still, their compaction (number of contigs needed to represent the transcriptome) and their quality (chimera and nucleotide error rates) can be improved.\nResults\nWe built a de novo RNA-Seq Assembly Pipeline (DRAP) which wraps these two assemblers (Trinity and Oases) in order to improve their results regarding the above-mentioned criteria. DRAP reduces from 1,3 to 15 fold the number of resulting contigs of the assemblies depending on the read set and the assembler used. This article presents seven assembly comparisons showing in some cases drastic improvements when using DRAP. DRAP does not significantly impair assembly quality metrics such are read realignment rate or protein reconstruction counts.\nConclusion\nTranscriptome assembly is a challenging computational task even if good solutions are already available to end-users, these solutions can still be improved while conserving the overall representation and quality of the assembly. The de novo RNA-Seq Assembly Pipeline (DRAP) is an ease to use software package to produce compact and corrected transcript set. DRAP is free, open-source and available at http://www.sigenae.org/drap .', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2284/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genomics', 'Computational Science'], [u'SIGENAE, GenPhySE, Universit\xe9 de Toulouse, INRA, INPT, ENV', u'Plate-forme bio-informatique Genotoul, Math\xe9matiques et Informatique Appliqu\xe9es de Toulouse, INRA', u'Laboratoire G\xe9nomique et Biotechnologie du Fruit, UMR990 INRA/INP-ENSAT', u'UR1037 Fish Physiology and Genomics, INRA']]
[u'The northernmost occurrence of Chelydra serpentina in the eastern US during the Pleistocene', ['Chase Brownstein'], u'2016-07-12', u'The snapping turtle species Chelydra serpentina, which has a wide range across North America, is extremely tolerant to cold and even freezing conditions. Here, I describe a single caudal vertebrae referred to Chelydra serpentina from the Late Pleistocene of New Jersey which represents the northernmost known occurrence of the species in eastern North America and the closest known occurrence of the species to a glacier or ice sheet in the continent during the Pleistocene. The specimen, which was collected at Ramanessin Brook in Holmdel, New Jersey, affirms that the Pleistocene deposits which line the banks of the popular Cretaceous site are not taphonomically biased to preserving larger fossils and in the future may yield an assemblage of small vertebrates.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2281/', ['Biogeography', 'Ecology', 'Paleontology'], [u'Stamford Museum & Nature Center']]
