[u'Jupyter notebooks in science gateways', ['Andrea Zonca'], u'2016-11-03', u'Jupyter Notebooks empower scientists to create executable documents that include text, equations, code and figures. Notebooks are a simple way to create reproducible and shareable workflows. The Jupyter developers have also released a multi-user notebook environment: Jupyterhub. Jupyterhub provides an extensible platform for handling user authentication and spawning the Notebook application to each user. I developed a plugin for Jupyterhub to spawn notebooks on a Supercomputer and integrated the authentication with CILogon and XSEDE. Scientists can authenticate on their browser and connect to a Jupyter Notebook instance running on the computing node of a Supercomputer, in my test deployment SDSC Comet. Jupyterhub can benefit Science Gateways by providing an expressive interface to a centralized environment with many software tools pre-installed and allow scientists to access Gateway functionality via web API. Scientists can then define their own workflows with maximum flexibility: they can mix data processing with a programming language of their choice, e.g. Python, R or Julia, add their own software modules and call the Gateway web API for the more resource-intensive operations. Workflows written as notebooks and executed in such a standard environment boost reproducibility with minimal effort from the scientists. Such notebooks can be both attached to publications to ensure reproducibility of past research and also modified and improved by other interested research groups. In this talk I will introduce the functionalities of Jupyterhub, give an overview of the architecture of the interface with XSEDE authentication and with Comet and finally different scenarios where Jupyter Notebooks can be integrated into Science Gateways.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2577/', ['Data Science', 'Scientific Computing and Simulation'], [u'San Diego Supercomputer Center, University of California, San Diego']]
[u'Rosemary: a flexible programming framework to build Science Gateways', ['Shayan Shahand', 'Silvia Olabarriaga'], u'2016-11-03', u'The lessons learned during six years of experience in design, development, and operation of four Science Gateway (SG) generations motivated us to develop yet another generation of platforms coined \u201cRosemary\u201d. At the core of Rosemary the three fundamental SG functions, namely related to data, computing, and collaboration management, are integrated together. Our earlier studies showed that complete integration between these functions is a feature that is usually overlooked in the existing SG platforms. Rosemary provides a generic data model, RESTful API, and responsive UI that can be customized through programming to build customized SGs. Moreover, Rosemary is designed and implemented to be flexible to changes in e-Infrastructures and user community requirements. The software frameworks, tools and libraries employed in the realization of Rosemary streamline the development, deployment and operation of customized SGs for the users needs. The code of Rosemary is open source, available at https://github.com/AMCeScience/Rosemary-Vanilla. So far the platform has been used to implement prototypes of three SGs for high-throughput analysis and management of neuroimaging data, sharing of data in in-vitro fertilization research, and provenance tracking of DNA sequencing data. This paper presents the design considerations, data model, and system architecture of Rosemary and highlights some of the features that are intrinsic to its design and implementation with examples from the three prototypes.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2576/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Digital Libraries', 'Distributed and Parallel Computing'], [u'Department of Clinical Epidemiology, Biostatistics, and Bioinformatics, Academic Medical Center, University of Amsterdam']]
[u'A connect-approach in high-grade glioma management; Position statement from the Neuro-Oncology Scientific Club (NOSC), Shiraz, Iran', ['Mansour Ansari', 'Ahmad Mosalaei', 'Niloofar Ahmadloo', 'Alireza Rasekhi', 'Bita Geramizadeh', 'Ali Razmkon', 'Mohammad Afarid', 'Ali Dadras', 'Leila Nafarieh', 'Mohammad Mohammadianpanah', 'Hamid Nasrolahi', 'Seyed Hasan Hamedi', 'Shapour Omidvari', 'Mohammad Nami'], u'2016-11-03', u'Portraying a robust working-team model in the practice of neuro-oncology requires continued interdisciplinary efforts. The Neuro-Oncology Scientific Club (NOSC) initiative is an interdisciplinary clinical forum promoting the connect-approach across involved disciplines in the management of CNS malignancies. With its provincial founding-panels and national steering board; NOSC has been operational in Iran since 2011. This initiative has pursued its mission through interval strategic meetings, tumor-boards, case-discussions as well as publishing neuro-oncology updates, case study periodicals and newsletters. A provincial meeting of NOSC in Shiraz, put together insights from international practice guidelines, emerging evidence and expert opinions to draw a position statement on high-grade glioma management in adults. The present report summarizes key highlights from the above clinical forum.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2575/', ['Oncology'], [u'Department of Radiation Oncology, School of Medicine, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences', u'Department of Radiology, School of Medicine, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences', u'Department of Pathology, School of Medicine, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences', u'Department of Neurosurgery, School of Medicine, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences', u'Behestan Medical Scientific Committee (BMSC), Behestan Group', u'Department of Neuroscience, School of Advanced Medical Sciences and Technologies, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences']]
[u'OncoRank: A pan-cancer method of combining survival correlations and its application to mRNAs, miRNAs, and lncRNAs', ['Jordan Anaya'], u'2016-11-03', u"OncoRank adopts a method for finding recurrent miRNA-target interactions to find genes with consistent relationships to patient survival across cancers. Genes are first ranked in each cancer by their Cox coefficients, and these ranks are then combined by applying Fisher's method. Using ranks instead of the raw coefficients or p-values allows each cancer to be weighted equally and prevents bias from cancers with large numbers of patients. OncoLnc (http://www.oncolnc.org) is a newly available resource for Cox coefficients and utilizes data from 21 cancers in The Cancer Genome Atlas. Using this resource I applied OncoRank to mRNAs, miRNAs, and lncRNAs and in each case found consistently harmful or protective genes. These genes may be members of central cancer pathways and should be of interest to cancer researchers.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2574/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genomics', 'Oncology'], [u'omnesres.com']]
[u'Making inference from wildlife collision data: inferring predator absence from prey strikes', ['Peter Caley', 'Geoffrey R Hosack', 'Simon C Barry'], u'2016-11-03', u'Wildlife collision data are ubiquitous, though challenging for making ecological inference due to typically irreducible uncertainty relating to the sampling process. We illustrate a new approach that is useful for generating inference from predator data arising from wildlife collisions. By simply conditioning on a second prey species sampled via the same collision process, and by using a biologically realistic numerical response functions, we can produce a coherent numerical response relationship between predator and prey. This relationship can then be used to make inference on the population size of the predator species, including the probability of extinction. The statistical conditioning enables us to account for unmeasured variation in factors influencing the runway strike incidence for individual airports and to enable valid comparisons. A practical application of the approach for testing hypotheses about the distribution and abundance of a predator species is illustrated using the hypothesized red fox incursion into Tasmania, Australia. We estimate that conditional on the numerical response between fox and lagomorph runway strikes on mainland Australia, the predictive probability of observing no runway strikes of foxes in Tasmania after observing 15 lagomorph strikes is 0.001. We conclude there is enough evidence to safely reject the null hypothesis that there is a widespread red fox population in Tasmania at a population density consistent with prey availability. The method is novel and has potential wider application.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2572/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Statistics'], [u'Data61, Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation', u'Data61, Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation']]
[u'Counting complete? Finalising the plant inventory of a global biodiversity hotspot', ['Martina Treurnicht', 'Jonathan F Colville', 'Lucas N Joppa', 'Onno Huyser', 'John Manning'], u'2016-11-03', u'The Cape Floristic Region \u2013 the world\u2019s smallest, but third richest hotspot \u2013 experienced sustained levels of taxonomic effort and exploration for almost three centuries resulting in a near-complete plant species inventory. Here we analyse, for a core component of this flora, trends over a 250 year period in taxonomic effort and species discovery linked to ecological and conservation attributes. We show that >40% of species were described within the initial 100 years, followed by a steady rate of description, culminating in <1% of the flora estimated still to be described. A relatively constant cohort of taxonomists working at their \u2018taxonomic maximum\u2019 was seen across 250 years, while rates of description remained independent of plant growth-form. Since 1950, narrow-range taxa constituted significantly greater proportions of species discoveries, highlighting the fraction of undiscovered species which exist as localised endemics and thus of high conservation value. In the context of initiated global strategic plans for biodiversity, our dataset provides real world insights for other hotspots to consider the effort required for attaining set targets of comprehensive plant inventories.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2573/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Conservation Ecology and Entomology, University of Stellenbosch', u'Institute of Landscape and Plant Ecology, University of Hohenheim', u'South African Environmental Observation Network Fynbos Node', u'Kirstenbosch Research Centre, South African National Biodiversity Institute', u'Statistics in Ecology, Environment and Conservation, Department of Statistical Sciences, University of Cape Town', u'Computational Ecology, Microsoft Research', u'Centre for Biodiversity Conservation, Kirstenbosch Botanical Gardens, Table Mountain Fund (WWF-SA)', u'Compton Herbarium, South African National Biodiversity Institute', u'Research Centre for Plant Growth and Development, University of KwaZulu-Natal']]
[u'A comparison of anesthesia techniques for entomological experimentation: Longevity of the leaf-mining fly pest Scaptomyza flava Fall\xe9n (Drosophilidae)', ['Ryan J Rayl', 'Steve D Wratten'], u'2016-11-03', u'Historically, handling insects usually involved their being killed as early studies used these organisms for work on genetics, physiology and/or pesticide bioassays. With the advancement of these research topics, the development of behavioral studies and the sensitivity of culturally important, threatened or endangered species, approaches that focus on non-lethal preparation of the insects for experimentation have become important. Anesthesia has been used as one of these non-lethal approaches to provide researchers flexibility when designing experiments. Two common anesthetics used for insect experimentation are carbon dioxide and chilling. These anesthetics have been used frequently in the literature but their sub-lethal effects on insects are poorly studied. Another that has potential for experimental use is triethylamine (TEA). This chemical shows promise because of its ease of use and potency as an insect anesthetic, but evidence, if any, of the sub-lethal effects is almost non-existent in the literature. A series of experiments was carried out to find the optimal exposure times and/or concentrations for each of these three approaches. Once an optimal treatment was found for each approach, these were compared to each other in a subsequent experiment. It was found that TEA is a far superior anesthetic when recording/observing fly longevity.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2571/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Animal Behavior', 'Entomology', 'Anaesthesiology and Pain Management'], [u'Bio-Protection Research Centre, Lincoln University']]
[u'Avian community structure and habitat use of Polylepis forests along an elevation gradient', ['C Steven Sevillano-Rios', 'Amanda D. Rodewald'], u'2016-11-03', u'Background. As one of the highest and most unique systems in the world, Polylepis forests are recognized both as center of endemism and diversity along the Andes and as a system under serious threat from human activities, fragmentation, and climate change. Effective conservation efforts are limited, in part, by our poor understanding of the habitat needs of the system\u2019s flora and fauna.\nMethods. In 2014-2015, we studied bird communities and 19 associated local and landscape attributes within five forested glacial valleys within the Cordillera Blanca and Huascaran National Park, Peru. Birds were surveyed in dry (May-August) and wet (January-April) seasons at 130 points distributed along an elevational gradient (3,300-4,700 masl) and analyzed using Canonical Correspondence Analysis (CCA).\nResults. A total of 50 species of birds, including 13 species of high conservation concern, were associated with four basic habitat types: (1) Polylepis sericea forests at low elevations, (2) P. weberbaueri forests at high elevations, (3) Puna grassland and (4) shrublands. Four species of conservation priority (e.g., Poospiza alticola) were strongly associated with large forest patches (~10-ha) dominated by P. sericea at lower elevations (<3,800 masl), whereas another four (e.g., Anairetes alpinus) were associated with less disturbed forests of P. weberbaueri at upper elevations (>4,200 masl).\nDiscussion. Results suggest that, in addition to conserving large (>10-ha) P. sericea forests at lower elevations as the cornerstone for maintaining bird diversity, any high elevation (>4,200 masl) relicts of P. weberbaueri, irrespective of size, should be prioritized for conservation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2570/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology'], [u'Department of Natural Resources, Cornell University', u'Cornell Lab of Ornithology']]
[u'Malaysia Biosafety Act 2007 and Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety: A critical comparative analysis', ['Kok-Gan Chan'], u'2016-11-02', u'Advancement of modern biotechnology has wide impact on various industries. Modern biotechnology in the past has gone unregulated but the responsible use of biotechnology is the main focus worldwide. The most important living modified organisms (LMOs) regulatory framework is the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety. This Protocol provides guidelines for the national legal framework. This paper aimed to perform comparative studies on Malaysia Biosafety Act 2007 and the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety. The results show that while certain clauses in the Protocol are highly similar, and some proviso in the Biosafety Act 2007 are broader in scope, and conversely, certain clauses of the Protocol are well reflected in the Biosafety Act 2007. It is submitted that in overall perspective, Biosafety Act 2007 is consistent with the Protocol. It is concluded that Malaysia biosafety regulation system satisfies this international requirement. However, with regards to enforcement of this Act, it remains unanswered, as no precedent has been reported. Interestingly, non-compliance of some proviso in the Biosafety Act 2007 will result in criminal penalty, and its impacts on the research and development in the biotechnology industry, commercial investment from abroad and domestic markets, and international trading of LMOs as food and feed, remain to be seen.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2569/', ['Biodiversity', 'Biotechnology', 'Legal Issues'], [u'ISB (Genetics & Molecular Biology), Faculty of Science, University of Malaya, University of Malaya']]
