[u'Mapping and studying an urban red fox (Vulpes vulpes) population using social media', ['Ahsennur Soysal', 'Linda M Hooper-Bui', 'Edward A Laws'], u'2016-12-07', u'Foxes are timid yet resourceful animals that are integrated into many urban environments. Because they are elusive, collecting information about the number of urban foxes, their diet and spatial distribution, their interactions with the ecological community in their urban habitat, as well as residents\u2019 response to them, is difficult. Involving stakeholders to participate in the data collection on wildlife via citizen science on social media is one way to overcome this complication, while simultaneously engaging residents in the ecology happening around them. Therefore, we used social media as the platform to engage the public to document and map the foxes in Baton Rouge, LA. Local residents were asked to post sightings and/or photographs of foxes they observed, with the location, onto our Facebook Page at Fox Finders of Baton Rouge, on Twitter at @FoxFindersBR, or on Twitter and Instagram with the hashtag #findfoxlsu. This information was added onto an ArcGIS story map. Types of public responses and engagement over time were also measured. The authors clarified people\u2019s misconceptions about foxes when questions were asked on our Facebook Page. On-site observations and trail cameras were also used in common locations to monitor the urban foxes.\nWhile we received only one fox sighting via Instagram and Twitter each, our Facebook Page generated 1132 \u201clikes\u201d and an average of 14% Page Engagement Rate during the first eight months. Along with Baton Rouge, people from 384 different cities and 16 countries have engaged with the page. In addition, 180 sightings of about 140 different foxes\u2014including 61 photographs and eight videos\u2014were submitted, with eight of the sightings coming from areas surrounding the city\u2014outside the study area. Seven common fox locations in the city were identified, all of which were adjacent to a source of water. Results showed that urban foxes have become habituated to the urban environment and may serve as an umbrella species. From the many positive and enthusiastic feedback we have received on our Facebook Page, our research model successfully promoted citizen science by easily connecting residents to science, enabling them to engage with our team and local residents directly to learn about the wildlife around them, efficiently documented and mapped many local urban foxes, and provided a preliminary count of foxes for benchmark data for future studies.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2623/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Coupled Natural and Human Systems'], [u'Department of Environmental Sciences, Louisiana State University and Agricultural and Mechanical College']]
[u'Effects of root exudates of woody species on the soil anti-erodibility in the rhizosphere in a karst region, China', ['Zhen Hong Wang', 'Hong Fang', 'Mouhui Chen'], u'2016-12-07', u'Introduction: The rhizospheres, the most active interfaces between plants and soils, play a central role in a long-term maintenance of the biosphere. The anti-erodibility of soils (AES) regulated by the root exudates is crucial to the stability of the rhizospheres. However, scientists still remain unclear regarding the key organic matter in the root exudates to affect the AES and interspecific variation. Methods: We used an incubation of soils to test the effects of the root exudates from 8 woody plant species on a change in soil aggregation, and identified the organic matter in these root exudates with gas chromatograph-mass spectrometer (GC-MS) and biochemical methods. Furthermore, the relationships between the organic matter in the exudates and the AES in the rhizosperes of the 34 additional tree species were analyzed. Results: The water-stable aggregates of the soils incubated with the root exudates increased by 15-50% on average compared with controls, and the interspecific differences were significant. The root exudates included hundreds of specific organic matter, in which hydrocarbon, total sugar, total amino acids and phenolic compounds were crucial to the AES. These types of the matter could explain about 20-75% of the variation in total effects of the root exudates on the AES quantified by aggregate status, degree of aggregation, dispersion ratio and dispersion coefficient. Discussion: Effects of the root exudates on the AES and the interspecific variation are as important as those of root density, litters and vegetation covers. A range of studies have explored the effects of root density, litters, vegetation covers and types on the AES, but little attention has been given to the effects of the root exudates on the AES. Different plants secrete the different relative contents of the organic matter resulting in the variation of the effects of the root exudates on the AES. Our study quantified the causal relationships between the root exudates and the AES from modeling experiments in laboratory to actual effects in the field, and indicated the interspecific variation of the AES and the organic matter in the root exudates. Conclusions: The study recognized more organic compounds in the exudates related to the AES. These results can enhance the understanding of the stability of the soils in a slope and be applied to ecosystem restoration.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2624/', ['Ecology', 'Plant Science', 'Soil Science'], [u'School of Environmental Science and Engineering, Chang`an University', u'Water-affair Authority, Xifeng County', u'College of Forestry, Guizhou University']]
[u'Endosymbiont interference and microbial diversity of the Pacific coast tick, Dermacentor occidentalis, in San Diego County, California', ['Nikos Gurfield', 'Saran Grewal', 'Lynnie S Cua', 'Pedro J Torres', 'Scott T Kelley'], u'2016-12-07', u'The Pacific coast tick, Dermacentor occidentalis Marx, is found throughout California and can harbor agents that cause human diseases such as anaplasmosis, ehrlichiosis, tularemia, Rocky Mountain spotted fever and rickettsiosis 364D.Previous studies have demonstrated that nonpathogenic endosymbiotic bacteria can interfere with Rickettsia co-infections in other tick species.We hypothesized that within D. occidentalis ticks, interference may exist between different nonpathogenic endosymbiotic or nonendosymbiotic bacteria and Spotted Fever group Rickettsia (SFGR). Using PCR amplification and sequencing of the rompA gene and intergenic region we identified a cohort of SFGR-infected and non-infected D. occidentalis ticks collected from San Diego County. We then amplified a partial segment of the 16S rRNA gene and used next-generation sequencing to elucidate the microbiomes and levels of co-infection in the ticks. The SFGR R. philipii str. 364D and R. rhipicephali were detected in 2.3% and 8.2% of the ticks, respectively, via rompA sequencing. Interestingly, next generation sequencing revealed an inverse relationship between the number of Francisella-like endosymbiont (FLE) 16S rRNA sequences and Rickettsia 16S rRNA sequences within individual ticks that is consistent with partial interference between FLE and SFGR infecting ticks. After excluding the Rickettsia and FLE endosymbionts from the analysis, there was a small but significant difference in microbial community diversity and a pattern of geographic isolation by distance between collection locales. In addition, male ticks had a greater diversity of bacteria than female ticks and ticks that weren\u2019t infected with SFGR had similar microbiomes to canine skin microbiomes. Although experimental studies are required for confirmation, our findings are consistent with the hypothesis that FLEs and, to a lesser extent, other bacteria, interfere with the ability of D. occidentalis to be infected with certain SFGR. The results also raise interesting possibilities about the effects of putative vertebrate hosts on the tick microbiome.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2622/', ['Entomology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Environmental Health-Vector Control Program, County of San Diego', u'Department of Biology, San Diego State University']]
