[u'Shades of yellow: interactive effects of visual and odour cues in a pest beetle', ['Sarah EJ Arnold', 'Philip C Stevenson', 'Steven R Belmain'], u'2016-06-07', u'Background. The visual ecology of pest insects is poorly studied compared to the role of odour cues in determining their behaviour. Furthermore, the combined effects of both odour and vision on insect orientation are frequently ignored, but could impact behavioural responses. \nMethods.  A locomotion compensator was used to evaluate use of different visual stimuli by a major coleopteran pest of stored grains ( Sitophilus zeamais ), with and without the presence of host odours (known to be attractive to this species), in an open-loop setup.  \nResults. Some visual stimuli \u2013 in particular, one shade of yellow, solid black and high contrast black-against-white stimuli \u2013 elicited positive orientation behaviour from the beetles in the absence of odour stimuli. When host odours were also present, at 90\xb0 to the source of the visual stimulus, the beetles presented with yellow and vertical black-on-white grating patterns changed their walking course and typically adopted a path intermediate between the two stimuli. The beetles presented with a solid black-on-white target continued to orient more strongly towards the visual than the odour stimulus.  \nDiscussion. Visual stimuli can strongly influence orientation behaviour, even in species where use of visual cues is sometimes assumed to be unimportant, while the outcomes from exposure to multimodal stimuli are unpredictable and need to be determined under differing conditions. The importance of the two modalities of stimulus (visual and olfactory) in food location is likely to depend upon relative stimulus intensity and motivational state of the insect.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2110/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Animal Behavior', 'Entomology'], [u'Natural Resources Institute, University of Greenwich', u'Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew']]
[u'Characterisation of genomic alterations in proximal and distal colorectal cancer patients', ['Ryia-Illani Mohd Yunos', 'Nurul-Syakima Ab Mutalib', 'Sheau Sean Khor', 'Sazuita Saidin', 'Norshahidah Mahamad Nadzir', 'Zuraini Abd. Razak', 'Isa Md. Rose', 'Ismail Sagap', 'Luqman Mazlan', 'Norfilza M Mokhtar', 'Rahman Jamal'], u'2016-06-07', u'Background: Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the commonest cancers in Malaysia and majority of the patients will present with advanced disease at diagnosis particularly in cases of proximal CRCs. Little is known about the relationship between the genetic landscape and the anatomical location of the tumour as well as the prognostication in CRC patients. Objectives: The objectives of this study were to determine the somatic single nucleotide variants (SNV) and the cellular pathways between the proximal and distal CRCs. Methods: Whole exome sequencing was performed using the Ion Proton platform on 10 pairs of normal and CRC samples. The sequencing results were analysed using the Torrent Suite Software and the variants were annotated using ANNOVAR followed by validation with Sanger sequencing. Results: The commonly altered genes in CRCs are KRAS, APC, TP53 and ATM. APC is the most frequently altered gene in both proximal and distal CRCs. KRAS and ATM genes were exclusively altered in the proximal CRCs with a frequency of 60% and 40%, respectively. On the other hand, TP53 mutations did not show any CRC anatomical predominance. There were five recurrent novel variants in proximal CRCs and one recurrent novel variant in distal CRC. Wnt signalling pathway was the most frequently altered pathway in both proximal and distal CRCs whereas TGF-\u03b2 and PI3K signalling pathways were predominantly altered in the proximal CRCs. Conclusion: We found that proximal CRCs presented with more variants and altered pathways as compared to distal CRCs. We also discovered that the TGF-Beta signalling (four mutations) and PI3K signalling (two mutations) pathways were exclusively altered in proximal CRCs. However, further study in larger series of samples coupled with functional studies will be needed to confirm the identified variants and determine their role in the genesis of proximal and distal CRCs.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2109/', ['Molecular Biology', 'Oncology'], [u'UKM Medical Molecular Biology Institute', u'Life Sciences Solutions, Thermo Fisher Scientific Incorporation', u'Department of Clinical Oral Biology, Faculty of Dentistry, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia', u'Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia', u'Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia']]
[u'Mapping ecologically important virus-host interactions in geographically diverse solar salterns with metagenomics', ['Abraham G Moller', 'Chun Liang'], u'2016-06-07', u'Solar salterns are excellent model ecosystems for studying virus-microbial interactions because of their low microbial diversity, environmental stability, and high viral density. By using the power of CRISPR spacers to link viruses to their prokaryotic hosts, we explored virus-host interactions in geographically diverse salterns and related them to carbon cycling. Using taxonomic profiling, we identified hosts such as archaeal Haloquadratum, Halorubrum, and Haloarcula and bacterial Salinibacter, and we found that community composition related to not only salinity but also local environmental dynamics. Characterizing glycerol metabolism genes in these metagenomes suggested most dihydroxyacetone kinase genes affiliate to Halorubrum and Haloquadratum while most glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase genes affiliate to Salinibacter. We identified CRISPR spacers in the metagenomes with two different methods and found more spacers in the Halobacteriaceae-dominated IC21 and C34 salterns compared with the Haloquadratum-dominated SS19, SS33, and SS37 salterns, suggesting low CRISPR diversity and possibly a high rate of CRISPR loss in the Haloquadratum-dominated salterns. After CRISPR detection, spacers were aligned against haloviral genomes to map virus to host. While most alignments linked viruses to Haloquadratum walsbyi, there were clusters of interactions with less abundant Haloarcula and Haloferax. Further examination of the dimer and codon usage differences between paired viruses and their hosts and detection of cas genes in the salterns confirmed both the plausibility of virus-host interactions and the possibility of CRISPR activity. Taken together, our studies suggest CRISPR loss in archaeal hosts controls the level of virus proliferation and the nutrient turnover viruses induce in these environments.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2106/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Ecology', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Biology, Miami University of Ohio']]
