[u'Collaboro: A collaborative (Meta) modeling tool', ['Javier Luis Canovas Izquierdo', 'Jordi Cabot'], u'2016-05-17', u'Software development processes are collaborative in nature. Neglecting the key role of end-users leads to software unlikely to satisfy their needs. This collaboration becomes specially important when creating Domain-Specific Modeling Languages (DSMLs), which are (modeling) languages specifically designed to carry out the tasks of a particular domain. While end-users are actually the experts of the domain for which a DSML is developed, their participation in the DSML specification process is still rather limited nowadays. In this paper, we propose a more community-aware language development process by enabling the active participation of all community members (both developers and end-users of the DSML) from the very beginning. Our proposal is based on a DSML itself, called Collaboro, which allows representing change proposals on the DSML design and discussing (and tracing back) possible solutions, comments and decisions arisen during the collaboration. Collaboro also incorporates a metric-based recommender system to help community members to define high-quality notations for the DSMLs. We also show how Collaboro can be used at the model-level to facilitate the collaborative specification of software models.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2046/', ['Programming Languages', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Universitat Oberta de Catalunya', u'Catalan Institution for Research and Advanced Studies']]
[u'Uncertainty modeling process for semantic technology', ['Rommel N Carvalho', 'Kathryn B Laskey', 'Paulo C. G. Da Costa'], u'2016-05-16', u'The ubiquity of uncertainty across application domains generates a need for principled support for uncertainty management in semantically aware systems. A probabilistic ontology provides constructs for representing uncertainty in domain ontologies. While the literature has been growing on formalisms for representing uncertainty in ontologies, there remains little guidance in the knowledge engineering literature for how to design probabilistic ontologies. To address the gap, this paper presents the Uncertainty Modeling Process for Semantic Technology (UMP-ST), a new methodology for modeling probabilistic ontologies. To explain how the methodology works and to verify that it can be applied to different scenarios, this paper describes step-by-step the construction of a proof-of-concept probabilistic ontology. The resulting domain model is intended to support identification of fraud in public procurements in Brazil. While the case study illustrates the development of a probabilistic ontology in the PR-OWL probabilistic ontology language, the methodology is applicable to any ontology formalism that properly integrates uncertainty with domain semantics.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2045/', ['Artificial Intelligence', 'World Wide Web and Web Science', 'Software Engineering'], [u"Department of Research and Strategic Information, Office of the Comptroller General, Brazil's Office of the Comptroller General", u'Department of Computer Science, Universidade de Bras\xedlia', u'Department of Systems Engineering and Operations Research, George Mason University']]
