[u'Redescription of Arundel formation Ornithomimosaur material and a reinterpretation of Nedcolbertia justinhofmanni as an \u201cOstrich Dinosaur\u201d: Biogeographic implications', ['Chase Doran Brownstein'], u'2016-07-21', u'The fossil record of dinosaurs from the Early Cretaceous of eastern North America is scant, and only a few sediments to the east of the continent are fossiliferous. Among them is the Arundel Formation of the east coast of the United States, which has produced among the best dinosaur faunas known from the Early Cretaceous of eastern North America. The diverse dinosaur fauna of this formation has been thoroughly discussed previously, but few of the dinosaur species originally described from the Arundel are still regarded as valid genera. Much of the Arundel material is in need of review and redescription. Among the fossils of dinosaurs from this formation are those referred to ornithomimosaurs. Here, I redescribe ornithomimosaur remains from the Arundel Formation which may warrant the naming of a new taxon of dinosaur. These remains provide key information on the theropods of the Early Cretaceous of Eastern North America. The description of the Arundel material herein along with recent discoveries of basal ornithomimosaurs in the past 15 years has allowed for comparisons with the coelurosaur Nedcolbertia justinhofmanni, suggesting the latter animal was a basal ornithomimosaurian dinosaur rather than a \u201cgeneralized\u201d coelurosaur. Comparisons between the Arundel ornithomimosaur and similar southeast Asian ornithomimosaurian material as well as ornithomimosaur remains from western North America suggest that a lineage of ornithomimosaurs with a metatarsal condition intermediate between that of basal and derived ornithomimosaurs was present through southeast Asia into North America, in turn suggesting that such animals coexisted with genera having a more primitive metatarsal morphology as seen in N. justinhofmanni.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2308/', ['Biogeography', 'Paleontology'], [u'Stamford Museum & Nature Center']]
[u'Chimpanzee energetics, ecology, and evolution', ['Herman Pontzer', 'Mary H. Brown', 'Melissa Emery Thompson', 'Stephen R. Ross'], u'2016-07-21', u"Chimpanzees have the largest relative brain size, greatest reproductive output, and longest lifespan of any non-human ape; they also have the highest level of physical activity in the wild, as measured by daily walking and climbing distances. In this study, we examined variation in total energy expenditure (TEE, kcal/day), body composition, oxidative stress, and physical activity to test whether chimpanzees have evolved metabolic strategies to fuel these evolved changes in ecology, encephalization, and life history. We used the doubly labeled water method to measure TEE and body fat percentage in adult chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes, n=27), bonobos (Pan paniscus, n=8), Western lowland gorillas (Gorilla gorilla, n=10), and orangutans (Pongo spp., n=11) housed in zoos and sanctuaries. Walking and climbing activity was recorded via direct observation. Oxidative stress was assayed via urinary 8-hydroxy-2' -deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG). Chimpanzee metabolic and activity measures were similar to bonobos\u2019 (p>0.05 all comparisons). In comparisons among genera, TEE in Pan was greater than that of Pongo (p<0.01) and trended higher than that of Gorilla (p=0.22) in multiple regression controlling for body size and activity. By contrast, urinary 8-OHdG and percent body fat were lower in Pan than in Gorilla or Pongo (p<0.05) in analyses controlling for age. These results indicate that chimpanzees have evolved an accelerated metabolism while simultaneously decreasing the safety margin against food shortage that body fat provides. We discuss this metabolic acceleration, which appears to predate the chimpanzee-bonobo divergence, and its importance for reconstructing the ecological pressures shaping chimpanzee life history, anatomy, and ranging.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2307/', ['Anthropology', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Veterinary Medicine', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Anthropology, City University of New York, Hunter College', u'Lester Fisher Center for the Study and Conservation of Apes, Lincoln Park Zoo', u'Department of Anthropology, University of New Mexico']]
