[u'Prediction of pKa values using the PM6 semiempirical method', ['Jimmy C. Kromann', 'Frej Larsen', 'Hadeel Moustafa', 'Jan H. Jensen'], u'2016-05-25', u'The PM6 semiempirical method and the dispersion and hydrogen bond-corrected PM6-D3H+ method are used together with the SMD and COSMO continuum solvation models to predict pKa values of pyridines, alcohols, phenols, benzoic acids, carboxylic acids, and phenols using isodesmic reactions and compared to published ab initio results. The pKa values of pyridines, alcohols, phenols, and benzoic acids considered in this study can generally be predicted with PM6 and ab initio methods to within the same overall accuracy, with average mean absolute differences of 0.6 - 0.7 pH units. For carboxylic acids the accuracy (0.7 - 1.0 pH units) is also comparable to ab initio results if a single outlier is removed. For primary, secondary, and tertiary amines the accuracy is, respectively, similar (0.5 - 0.6), slightly worse (0.5 - 1.0), and worse (1.0 - 2.5), provided that di- and triethylamine are used as reference molecules for secondary and tertiary amines. When applied to a drug like molecule where an empirical pKa predictor exhibits a large (4.9 pH unit) error, we find that the errors for PM6-based predictions are roughly the same in magnitude but opposite in sign. As a result most of the PM6-based methods predict the correct protonation state at physiological pH, while the empirical predictor does not. The computational cost is around 2-5 minutes per conformer per core processor, making PM6-based pKa prediction computationally efficient enough to be used for high-throughput screening using on the order of 100 core processors.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2075/', ['Biophysics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Department of Chemistry, University of Copenhagen']]
[u'Haplotype based genetic risk estimation for complex diseases', ['Felix Balazard'], u'2016-05-25', u'Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have uncovered thousands of associations between genetic variants and diseases. Using the same datasets, prediction of disease risk can be attempted. Phase information is an important biological structure that has seldom been used in that setting. We propose here a multi-step machine learning method that aims at using this information. Our method captures local interactions in short haplotypes and combines the results linearly. We show that it outperforms standard linear models on some GWAS datasets. However, a variation of our method that does not use phase information obtains similar performance. Regarding the missing heritability problem, we remark that interactions in short haplotypes contribute to additive heritability. Source code is available on github at https://github.com/FelBalazard/Prediction-with-Haplotypes.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2074/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Genomics', 'Epidemiology', 'Statistics'], [u'Sorbonne Universit\xe9s, UPMC Univ Paris 06, CNRS', u'INSERM U1169, Universit\xe9 Paris Sud (Paris XI)']]
[u'HBPF: a Home Blood Pressure Framework with SLA guarantees to follow up hypertensive patients', ['Josep Cuadrado', 'Jordi Vilaplana', 'Jordi Mateo', 'Francesc Solsona', 'Sara Solsona', 'Josep Rius', 'Rui Alves', 'Miguel Camafort'], u'2016-05-25', u'Hypertension or high blood pressure is a condition on the rise. Not only does it affect the elderly but is also increasingly spreading to younger sectors of the population. Treating it involves exhaustive monitoring of patients. A tool adapted to the particular requirements of hypertension can greatly facilitate monitoring and diagnosis. This paper presents HBPF, an efficient cloud-based Home Blood Pressure Framework. This allows hypertensive patients to communicate with their health-care centers, thus facilitating monitoring for both patients and clinicians. HBPF provides a complete, efficient, and cross-platform framework to follow up hypertensive patients with an SLA guarantee. Response time below one second for 80,000 requests and 28% increase in peak throughput going from one to 3 virtual machines were obtained. In addition, a mobile app (BP) for Android and iOS with a user-friendly interface is also provided to facilitate following up hypertensive patients. Among them, between 54% and 87% favorably evaluated the tool. BP can be downloaded for free from the website Hesoft Group repository (http://www.hesoftgroup.eu).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2073/', ['Computer Networks and Communications', 'Distributed and Parallel Computing'], [u'Hesoft Group', u'Computer Science, University of Lleida', u'Basic Medical Sciences, University of Lleida', u'Medicine, Clinic Hospital', u'Department of Medicine, Universitat de Barcelona']]
[u'West Indian manatee movements reveal novel occupancy and distribution patterns in the northern Gulf of Mexico', ['Allen Aven', 'Ruth H. Carmichael', 'Elizabeth E Hieb', 'Monica Ross'], u'2016-05-25', u"Since the 1980s, West Indian manatees (Trichechus manatus) have been reported more frequently along the northern Gulf of Mexico (GOM) coast in areas that were recently considered to be outside the species' normal areas of occupancy. The ecological importance of the northern GOM region to manatees is currently unclear, but knowledge of the spatial ecology, population linkages, and habitat associations of individuals occupying the fringes of their known range is vital to bring context and improve understanding of demographic trends and potential threats to the species, rangewide. We tracked regional-scale movements of 13 manatees documented in Mobile Bay, AL using satellite telemetry and mark-recapture methods. We determined movement and occupancy patterns including origins, seasonal dispersal and site fidelity, and functional movement modes of those individuals during the tracking period. Focal manatees moved along the GOM coast between Tampa Bay, FL and Lake Pontchartrain, LA, and consistently returned to discrete locations in both the northern GOM and within the species' core range in peninsular FL. Functional movement model fits confirmed that most relatively long-range seasonal movements were migratory in nature, suggesting that consistently occupied migratory endpoints contain relatively important seasonal habitat for manatees and diminishing the possibility that tracked manatees were nomads or transient within the study area. These results provide evidence of shifting seasonal manatee distribution in the US, and highlight repeatedly used locations that may increase in importance to the species if manatee abundance in the northern GOM increases.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2072/', ['Biogeography', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Marine Sciences, University of South Alabama', u'Dauphin Island Sea Lab', u'Sea to Shore Alliance']]
