[u'tmod: an R package for general and multivariate enrichment analysis', ['January Weiner 3rd', 'Teresa Domaszewska'], u'2016-09-04', u'\u201cOmics\u201d studies generate long lists of genes, proteins, metabolites or other features which can be difficult to decipher. Feature set enrichment analysis utilizing annotated groups/classes of features (such as pathways, gene ontology terms or gene/metabolic modules) can provide a powerful gateway to associate data to phenotypes such as disease process or treatment progression. At the same time, the increasing use of technologies to generate multidimensional omics data sets based on specific cell types or responses to stimuli increases the number and breadth of annotated feature sets available for enrichment analysis, facilitating the ability to draw biologically relevant conclusions. However, existing tools and applications for enrichment analysis are adapted specifically to gene set enrichment and lack functionalities to analyze rapidly growing amounts of metabolomics and other data. Moreover, such tools often provide only a limited range of statistical methods, rely on permutation tests, lack suitable visualization tools to facilitate result interpretation in complex experimental setups, and lack standalone versions usable in semi-automatized workflows. Here, we present tmod, an R package which implements powerful statistical methods for enrichment analysis. Tmod includes definitions of widely used feature sets for transcriptomic and metabolomic profiling and also allows use of custom user-provided feature sets. Moreover, it provides novel and intuitive visualiza- tion methods which facilitate interpretation of complex data sets. The implemented statistical tests allow the significance of enrichment within sorted feature lists to be calculated without randomization tests and thus are suitable for combining functional analysis with multivariate techniques.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2420/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Immunology', 'Statistics', 'Metabolic Sciences', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Immunology, Max Planck Institute for Infection Biology']]
[u'FUCHS - Towards full circular RNA characterization using RNAseq', ['Franziska Metge', 'Lisa F Czaja-Hasse', 'Richard Reinhardt', 'Chistoph Dieterich'], u'2016-09-04', u'Circular RNAs (circRNAs) belong to a recently re-discovered species of RNA that emerge during RNA maturation through a process called back-splicing. A downstream 5\u2019 splice site is linked to an upstream 3\u2019 splice site to form a circular transcript instead of a canonical linear transcript. Recent advances in next-generation sequencing (NGS) have brought circRNAs back into the focus of many scientists. Since then, several studies reported that circRNAs are differentially expressed across tissue types and developmental stages, implying that they are actively regulated and not merely a by-product of splicing. Though functional studies have shown that some circRNAs could act as miRNA-sponges, the function of most circRNAs remains unknown. To expand our understanding of possible roles of circular RNAs, we propose a new pipeline that could fully characterizes candidate circRNA structure from RNAseq data \u2013 FUCHS: FUll CHaracterization of circular RNA using RNA- Sequencing.\nCurrently, most computational prediction pipelines use back-spliced reads to identify circular RNAs. FUCHS extends this concept by considering all RNA-seq information from long reads (typically > 150 bp) to learn more about the exon coverage, the number of double break point fragments, the different circular isoforms arising from one host-gene, and the alternatively spliced exons within the same circRNA boundaries.\nThis new knowledge will enable the user to carry out differential-motif enrichment and miRNA-seed analysis to determine potential regulators during circRNA biogenesis. FUCHS is an easy-to-use Python based pipeline that contributes a new aspect to the circRNA research.\nThe pipeline is available as git repository: https://github.com/dieterich-lab/FUCHS', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2418/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Genomics', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Max-Planck Institute for Biology of Ageing', u'Max-Planck-Genome-Centre Cologne', u'Department of Internal Medicine III, Klaus Tschira Institute for Integrative Computational Cardiology', u'Partner site Heidelberg/Mannheim, German Centre for Cardiovascular Research (DZHK)']]
[u'GreenScaler: Automatically training software energy model with big data', ['Shaiful Alam Chowdhury', 'Stephanie Gil', 'Stephen Romansky', 'Abram Hindle'], u'2016-09-04', u'Software energy consumption is a performance related non-functional requirement that complicates building software on mobile devices today. Energy hogging applications are a liability to both the end-user and software developer. Measuring software energy consumption is non-trivial, requiring both equipment and expertise, yet many researchers have found that software energy consumption can be modelled. Prior works have hinted that with more energy measurement data one can make more accurate energy models but this data was expensive to extract because it required energy measurement of running test cases (rare) or time consuming manually written tests. We address these concerns by automatically generating test cases to drive applications undergoing energy measurement. Automatic test generation allows a model to be continuously improved in a model building process whereby applications are extracted, tests are generated, energy is measured and combined with instrumentation to train a grander big-data model of software energy consumption. This continuous process has allowed the authors to generate and extract measurements from hundreds of applications in order to build accurate energy models capable of predicting the energy consumption of applications without end-user energy measurement. We clearly show that models built from more applications reduce energy modelling error.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2419/', ['Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Mobile and Ubiquitous Computing', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Department of Computing Science, University of Alberta']]
[u'New records of predation on eggs of Bemisia tabaci (Hemiptera: Aleyrodidae) by Chrysopodes (Chrysopodes) lineafrons (Neuroptera: Chrysopidae) in Northwestern Argentina', ['Eugenia S. Ortega', 'Cecilia A. Veggiani', 'Ana L. Avila', 'Carmen Reguilon'], u'2016-09-04', u'Bemisia tabaci has become a major economic importance pest, affecting several crops worldwide. Among their natural enemies, species of Chrysopidae family, with larvae predators of different pests, are a very effective biological control agent. The developmental time and survival of the immature stages of Chrysopodes (Chrysopodes) lineafrons, and the longevity and oviposition of adults fed with eggs of B. tabaci was determined. C. (C.) lineafrons adults were collected in tomato crops in Lules department, Tucum\xe1n province. To determine the developmental duration of each instar, and larvae survival, 90 eggs of C. (C.) lineafrons were randomly selected, of which only 71 eggs hatched; of these, 34 larvae were fed with B. tabaci eggs and 37 with Sitotroga cerealella eggs, used as control. Oviposition and longevity of adults fed with the two preys were recorded. C. (C.) lineafrons larvae consumed an average of 127.04 B. tabaci eggs and 44 S. cerealella eggs per day. Mean developmental time of C. (C.) lineafrons fed with B. tabaci eggs was 45 days; while for those fed with S. cerealella eggs it was 35 days. Immature stages survival, number of eggs per adults and longevity were higher when C. (C.) lineafrons were fed with S. cerealella eggs than with B. tabaci eggs. C. (C.) lineafrons proved to be an efficient predator, thus representing an excellent tool for the biological control of B. tabaci in tomato crops .', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2417/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Entomology'], [u'Facultad de Ciencias Naturales e IML, 1Instituto Superior de Entomolog\xeda \u201cDr. Abraham Willink"', u'Entomology, Estaci\xf3n Experimental Agroindustrial Obispo Colombres', u'Instituto de Entomolog\xeda, Fundacion Miguel Lillo']]
[u'Drift net performance for larval fish sampling in rivers', ['Alan J Couch', 'Fiona Dyer', 'Mark Lintermans', 'Pat Ross-Magee'], u'2016-09-04', u'Deploying small-mesh drift nets in rivers is a well-established method for sampling drifting fish larvae and eggs. Quantitative comparisons are sometimes made on the basis of numbers of larvae captured per unit volume or time. In this study a GoPro \u2122 camera was mounted inside the drift net to record the change in flow over time (1 to 5 minute intervals for 3 hours). Although a small number of net nights (7 nights at 3 locations) were sampled, variance in the change in flow within and between sites was observed \u2013 even during soak times as little as 2 hours. In one case there was almost no change in flow over 180 minutes but at the most extreme, the flow dropped from 8.9 m3/min to 1.5 m3/min in just 160 minutes. Variance is probably due to the level of suspended particulates at different sites or times. If volumetric or temporal estimates are made on the basis of total flow only they could in some cases be misleading and at worst make comparisons almost meaningless. While there are dedicated data logging flow meters available they are prohibitively expensive for routine sampling. Researchers could consider the method used in this study to cost effectively assess the decay in net performance during sampling.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2416/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Institute for Applied Ecology, University of Canberra']]
[u'Redesign of OGC Symbology Encoding standard for sharing cartography', ['Erwan Bocher', 'Olivier Ertz'], u'2016-09-04', u'Despite most Spatial Data Infrastructures are offering service-based visualization of geospatial data, requirements are often at a very basic level leading to poor quality of maps. This is a general observation for any geospatial architecture as soon as open standards as those of the Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC) have to be applied. To improve this situation, this paper does focus on improvements at the (inter)operability side by considering standardization aspects. We propose two major redesign recommendations. First to consolidate the cartographic design knowledge at the core of the OGC Symbology Encoding standard. Secondly to build the standard in a modular way so as to be ready to host upcoming cartographic requirements.\nThus, we start by defining the main portrayal interoperability use cases that frame the concept of sharing cartography. Then we bring to light the strengths and limits of the relevant open standards to consider in this context. Finally we paint a set of recommendations to overcome the limits so as to make these use cases a reality.\nEven if the definition of a cartographic-oriented standard is not able to act as a complete cartographic design framework by itself, we argue that pushing forward the standardization work dedicated to cartography is a way to share and disseminate good practices and finally to improve the quality of the visualizations.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2415/', ['Spatial and Geographic Information Systems', 'World Wide Web and Web Science'], [u'Lab-STICC CNRS UMR 6285, University of South Brittany', u'School of Engineering and Management Vaud / Media Engineering Institute, University of Applied Sciences and Arts Western Switzerland']]
