[u'Functional stabilisation and partner selection during repeated co-culivation in a methanotrophic interactome', ['Frederiek - Maarten Kerckhof', 'Charlotte De Rudder', 'Varvara Tsilia', 'Ruben Props', 'Adrian Ho', 'Kim Heylen', 'Nico Boon'], u'2016-05-02', u'Background\n\nBiological oxidation of methane (CH4) is an essential ecosystem function. Accumulating evidence indicated that this function is mediated by associations of methanotrophic bacteria (MOB) with non-methanotrophic partners; together referred to as a methanotrophic interactome. Given the potency of CH4 as a greenhouse gas, a thorough understanding of how these interactomes exert an effect on methane oxidation is of special interest. Furthermore, MOB - non-MOB associations could be exploited for sustainable biotechnological applications in light of the renewed interest in MOB as natural and cost-efficient biocatalysts. The selectivity of MOB for non-MOB partners, as well as the stimulation of MOB activity (CH4 oxidation rate, MOR) with increasing non-MOB richness have both been recently described for a single batch incubation period. Therefore, we hypothesized that during repeated co-cultivation of MOB with non-MOB, ecological sorting would guide the methanotrophic interactome towards its optimal composition, which could additionally boost functionality (MOR).\n\nMethods\n\nCo-cultures of 8 non-MOB partners with a single alpha- or a single gammaproteobacterial MOB were repeatedly sub-cultivated. In every cycle, the headspace CH4 concentration was measured to over time to determine the MOR, while headspace CO2 concentrations and total protein in the culture were determined to track the fate of CH4-derived carbon (catabolism and assimilation respectively). Finally, the relative abundance of each co-culture partner was assessed using a 16S rRNA gene-targeted denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE).\n\nResults and Discussion\n\nWhile no significant improvement of functionality was observed, the biological variability of MOR was stabilized by co-cultivation with non-MOB partners. Overall, higher biomass yields were obtained when MOB were co-cultivated with non-MOB partners and the alphaproteobacterial MOB appeared to be able to support more non-MOB biomass than the gammaproteobacterial MOB, which could be linked to the proposed life-strategies of these clades. A clear partner selection was observed as only 4 out of 8 initial partners were found to persist during repeated cycles of co-cultivation. While 2 of the persisting partners could coexist with either MOB type, the other two were more restricted to a specific MOB. Differential metabolic potential of non-MOB was resolved by genome mining publicly available genomes; our attempt to find clues for the partner selectivity did not reveal a clear link with the potential for C1-compound metabolism. However, genes for sugar metabolism (fructose, mannose, sucrose) were restricted to the persisting partners while genes encoding an ATP-dependent vitamin B12 importer were restricted to the non-persisting partners, underlining the importance of metabolic exchange in the methanotrophic interactome.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2014/', ['Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Microbiology'], [u'Center for Microbial Ecology and Technology (CMET), Universiteit Gent', u'Department of Microbial Ecology, Netherlands Institute of Ecology (NIOO-KNAW)', u'Laboratory of Microbiology (LM-Ugent), Universiteit Gent']]
[u'Variation of pyrrolizidine alkaloids in Senecio vulgaris plants from native and invasive ranges', ['Dandan Cheng', 'Viet-Thang Nguyen', 'Noel Ndihokubwayo'], u'2016-05-02', u'Pyrrolizidine alkaloids (PAs), a typical kind of secondary metabolites in plants, have important roles on defense against herbivores and pathogens; however, specialist herbivores adapted to PAs can use them as cues for oviposition and feeding. Thus, in the native ranges, PA diversity and concentration in plants were selected by the balance between pressure from generalist and specialist herbivores. In introduced ranges, where the specialist herbivores are absent, the introduced plants could increase concentration and diversity of PAs. This predication is deduced from the Shift Defense Hypothesis (SDH). In this research, we investigated whether there were any differences between native and invasive Senecio vulgaris plants (from Europe and China, respectively) with regards to the PA composition and concentration. We grew the native and invasive S. vulgaris plants in an identical condition and harvested them when they started to bloom. Their roots and shoots were separately harvested and dried. PA composition and concentration from powder of the shoots and roots were detected by using liquid chromatography \u2013 tanderm mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). We identified 14 PAs which belongs to the structural group senecionine \u2013 like PAs. Most of them occurred in both the native and invasive S. vulgaris plants, except the usaramine N \u2013 oxide that was only found in the native ones. From the 14 PAs identified, only riddelliine N \u2013 oxide had significantly higher present frequency in the invasive plants than in the native plants. The invasive S. vulgaris plants had significantly lower concentration of 3 individual PAs (seneciphylline N \u2013 oxide, spartioidine and spartioidine N \u2013 oxide) than the native ones. These results demonstrated that PA diversity and concentration of some individual PAs tended to reduce in the invasive range of S. vulgaris. This is contrary to the predictions of the SDH that the invasive plants would produce more qualitative defense than the native ones, and it is probably an evidence that a little trade \u2013 off between defense and growth happened to the S. vulgaris in China.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2013/', ['Ecology', 'Plant Science'], [u'State Key Laboratory of Biogeology and Environmental Geology, China University of Geosciences (Wuhan)', u'School of Environmental Studies, China University of Geosciences  (Wuhan)', u'Faculity of Biology and Agriculture Engineering, Thai Nguyen Uiniversity of Education', u'D\xe9partement des Sciences Naturelles, Ecole Normale Sup\xe9rieure']]
[u'Comparison of the performance of native and invasive plants of Senecio vulgairs L.', ['Dandan Cheng', 'Viet - Thang Nguyen', 'Noel Ndihokubwayo'], u'2016-05-02', u'According to the Evolution of Increased Competitive Ability (EICA) hypothesis and Enemy Release Hypothesis (ERH), comparing the plants from the same species, individuals from the invasive range will outperform those from the native range. However, not all recent studies support the prediction of these two hypotheses. In this study, we sought to test the prediction by comparing the performance of common groundsel (  Senecio vulgaris  ) taken from native (Europe) and invasive (China) ranges. Those plants were grown in a greenhouse and in a common garden, and harvested with various vegetative and reproductive traits measured. We found that although the plants grown in the common garden grew and reproduced better than those grown in the greenhouse, the invasive plants outperformed the native plants in relation to most vegetation parameters (except plant height) and reproduction in both experiments; and generally, the invasive plants allocated more proportion of biomass to root than the native plants. However, the proportion of biomass allocated to reproductive organ and relative dry matter content were the same between the native and invasive plants, no matter among the plants grown in the greenhouse or in the common garden. Our study partially supported the predictions of the EICA and ERH and indicated that evolution might have happened to  S. vulgaris  invasive to China.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2012/', ['Ecology', 'Plant Science'], [u'State Key Laboratory of Biogeology and Environmental Geology, China University of Geosciences (Wuhan)', u'School of Environmental Studies, China University of Geoscience (Wuhan)', u'Faculity of Biology and Agriculture Engineering, Thai Nguyen Uiniversity of Education', u'D\xe9partement des Sciences Naturelles, Ecole Normale Sup\xe9rieure']]
