[u'First record of Trichoderma longibrachiatum as entomopathogenic fungi against Bemisia tabaci in Pakistan', ['Waheed Anwar', 'Muhammad S Haider', 'Ahmad A Shahid', 'Hamid Mushtaq', 'Muhammad Z Rehman', 'Usman Hameed', 'Sidra Javed'], u'2016-05-05', u'Background. Trichoderma is known as antagonistic organism against broad spectrum fungal as well as bacterial plant pathogens but it is not commonly found as insect pathogen. Methods. In present study, Trichoderma longibrachiatum was isolated from cotton mealybug and its pathogenicity test was conducted against Bemisia tabaci under controlled conditions. Entomopathogenic potential of T. longibrachiatum was accessed on nymphal and adult stages of B. tabaci. Results. Entomopathogenic activity of T. longibrachiatum was severe on nymphal stage as compared to adult B. tabaci. Germination of conidia on outer surface of nymphal and adult stage of whitefly was also observed. Discussion. Results revealed T. longibrachiatum as entomopathogenic fungi against B. tabaci.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2028/', ['Entomology', 'Mycology'], [u'Institute of Agricultural Sciences, University of the Punjab']]
[u'Web servers energy efficiency under HTTP/2', ['Varun Sapra', 'Abram Hindle'], u'2016-05-04', u'Server energy consumption has been a subject of research for more than a decade now. With Internet scaling rapidly all over the world, more servers are being added continuously. With global warming and financial cost associated with running servers, it has now become a more pressing concern to optimize the power consumption of these servers while still not affecting the performance. The optimization that can be carried out at the hardware level has its limits and therefore the onus comes on to the software developers as well to optimize their web interacting services and use protocols that are more efficient. Recently, Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) formalized the specification for the successor of HTTP/1.1 protocol. Named HTTP/2, it has been projected to overcome all the limitations of HTTP/1.1 protocol for which web services developers have to optimize their applications. Understandably, HTTP/2 has been drawing a lot of interest from users, web administrators to big organizations. With HTTP/2 as the future of the Internet communication and servers acting as the backbone of the Internet, we are interested in knowing if HTTP/2 will provide energy efficiency benefits to servers or it will just improve users web experience. In this paper, we evaluate the energy efficiency of two web servers while they communicate over HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2 protocol. We also investigate how Transport layer security (TLS) affects the power consumption of the servers. In our tests, we have introduced HTTP/2 features one by one so that readers can see for themselves what benefits the HTTP/2 over HTTP/1.1. Our study suggests that multiplexing and Round Trip time (RTT) are the biggest factors helping HTTP/2 achieve its design goals. We conclude that even with huge TLS associated cost with HTTP/2, on high latency networks it can help servers to be more energy efficient while improving their performance as well.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2027/', ['Computer Networks and Communications', 'Mobile and Ubiquitous Computing', 'World Wide Web and Web Science', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Department of Computing Science, University of Alberta']]
[u'Automated annotation of corals in natural scene images using multiple texture representations', ['Jean-Nicola Blanchet', 'Sebastien Dery', 'Jacques-Andre Landry', 'Kate Osborne'], u'2016-05-04', u'Current coral reef health monitoring programs rely on biodiversity data obtained through the acquisition and annotation of underwater photographs. Manual annotation of these photographs is a necessary step, but has become problematic due to the high volume of images and the lack of available human resources. While automated and reliable multi-spectral annotation methods exist, coral reef images are often limited to visible light, which makes automation difficult. Much of the previous work has focused on popular texture recognition methods, but the results remain unsatisfactory when compared to human performance for the same task. In this work, we present an improved automatic method for coral image annotation that yields consistent accuracy improvements over existing methods. Our method builds on previous work by combining multiple feature representations. We demonstrate that the aggregation of multiple methods outperforms any single method. Furthermore, our proposed system requires virtually no parameter tuning, and supports rejection for improved results. Firstly, the complex texture diversity of corals is handled by combining multiple feature representations: local binary patterns, hue and opponent angle histograms, textons, and deep convolutional activation feature. Secondly, these multiple representations are aggregated using a score-level fusion of multiple support vector machines. Thirdly, rejection can optionally be applied to enhance classification results, and allows efficient semi-supervised image annotation in collaboration with human experts.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2026/', ['Computer Vision', 'Data Mining and Machine Learning'], [u'Laboratory for Imagery, Vision and Artificial Intelligence (LIVIA), \xc9cole de technologie sup\xe9rieure', u'Faculty of Medicine, McGill University', u'Department of Automation Engineering, \xc9cole de technologie sup\xe9rieure', u'Australian Institute of Marine Science']]
[u'\xadBcl-2 homologue debcl enhances \u03b1-synuclein-induced phenotypes in Drosophila', ["Peter G M'Angale", 'Brian E Staveley'], u'2016-05-04', u'Background Parkinson disease (PD) is a debilitating movement disorder that afflicts 1 to 2% of the population over 50 years of age. The common hallmark for both sporadic and familial forms of PD is mitochondrial dysfunction. Mammals have at least twenty proapoptotic and antiapoptotic Bcl-2 family members, in contrast, only two Bcl-2 family genes have been identified in Drosophila melanogaster, the proapoptotic mitochondrial localized debcl and the antiapoptotic Buffy. The expression of \u03b1-synuclein, the first gene identified to contribute to inherited forms of PD, in the dopaminergic neurons (DA) of flies has provided a robust and well-studied Drosophila model of PD complete with the loss of neurons and accompanying motor defects. The altered expression of debcl in the DA neurons and neuron-rich eye and along with the expression of \u03b1-synuclein offers an opportunity to highlight the role of debcl in mitochondrial-dependent neuronal degeneration and death. Results The directed overexpression of debcl using the Ddc-Gal4 transgene in the dopaminergic neurons of Drosophila resulted in flies with severely decreased survival and a premature age-dependent loss in climbing ability. The inhibition of debcl resulted in enhanced survival and improved climbing ability whereas the overexpression of debcl in the \u03b1-synuclein-induced Drosophila model of PD resulted in more severe phenotypes. In addition, the co-expression of debcl along with Buffy partially counteracts the debcl-induced phenotypes, to improve the lifespan and the associated loss of locomotor ability observed. In complementary experiments, the overexpression of debcl along with the expression of \u03b1-synuclein in the eye, enhanced the eye ablation that results from the overexpression of debcl. The co-expression of Buffy along with debcl overexpression results in the rescue of the moderate developmental eye defects. The co-expression of Buffy along with inhibition of debcl partially restores the eye to a roughened eye phenotype. Discussion The overexpression of debcl in DA neurons produces flies with shortened lifespan and impaired locomotor ability, phenotypes that are strongly associated with models of PD in Drosophila. The co-expression of debcl along with \u03b1-synuclein enhanced the Parkinson disease-like phenotypes. The co-expression of debcl along with Buffy suppresses these phenotypes. Complementary experiments in the Drosophila eye show similar trends during development. Taken all together these results suggest a role for debcl in neurodegenerative disorders.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2025/', ['Cell Biology', 'Genetics'], [u'Department of Biology, Memorial University of Newfoundland']]
[u'A novel baculovirus-derived promoter with high activity in the Baculovirus Expression System', ['Maria Martinez-Solis', 'Silvia Gomez-Sebastian', 'Jose M Escribano', 'Agata K Jakubowska', 'Salvador Herrero'], u'2016-05-04', u'The baculovirus expression vector system (BEVS) has been widely used to produce a large number of recombinant proteins, and is becoming one of the most powerful, robust, and cost-effective systems for the production of eukaryotic proteins. Nevertheless, as in any other protein expression system, it is important to improve the production capabilities of this vector. The orf46 viral gene was identified among the most highly abundant sequences in the transcriptome of Spodoptera exigua larvae infected with its native baculovirus, the S. exigua multiple nucleopolyhedrovirus (SeMNPV). Different sequences upstream of the orf46 gene were cloned, and their promoter activities were tested by the expression of the GFP reporter gene using the Autographa californica nucleopolyhedrovirus (AcMNPV) vector system in different insect cell lines (Sf21, Se301, and Hi5) and in larvae from S. exigua and Trichoplusia ni. The strongest promoter activity was defined by a 120 nt sequence upstream of the ATG start codon for the orf46 gene. On average, GFP expression under this new promoter was more than two fold higher than the expression obtained with the standard polyhedrin (pph) promoter. Additionally, the orf46 promoter was also tested in combination with the pph promoter, revealing an additive effect over the pph promoter activity. In conclusion, this new characterized promoter represents an excellent alternative to the most commonly used baculovirus promoters for the efficient expression of recombinant proteins using the BEVS.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2024/', ['Biotechnology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Virology'], [u'Department of Genetics, Universitat de Val\xe8ncia', u'Estructura de Recerca Interdisciplinar en Biotecnologia i Biomedicina (ERI BIOTECMED), Universitat de Val\xe8ncia', u'Alternative Gene Expression S.L. (ALGENEX)', u'Departamento de Biotecnolog\xeda, Instituto Nacional de Investigaci\xf3n y Tecnolog\xeda Agraria y Alimentaria (INIA)']]
[u'The Masquerade Game: marine mimicry adaptation between egg-cowries and octocorals', ['Juan A Sanchez', 'Angela P Fuentes-Pardo', 'Ide Ni Almhain', 'Nestor E Ardila-Espitia', 'Jaime Cantera-Kintz', 'Manu Forero-Shelton'], u'2016-05-03', u'Background. Background matching, as a camouflage strategy, is one of the most outstanding examples of adaptation, where little error or mismatch means high vulnerability to predation. It is assumed that the interplay of natural selection and adaptation are the main evolutionary forces shaping the great diversity of phenotypes observed in mimicry, however there may be other significant processes that intervene in the development of mimicry such as phenotypic plasticity. Based on observations of background mismatching during reproduction events of egg-cowries, sea snails of the family Ovulidae that mimic the octocoral where they inhabit, we wondered if they match the host species diversity. Using observations in the field and molecular systematics, we set out to establish whether the different egg-cowrie color/shape polymorphisms correspond to distinct lineages restricted to specific octocoral species. Methods. Collection and observations of egg-cowries and their octocoral hosts were done using SCUBA diving between 2009-2012 at two localities in the Tropical Eastern Pacific (TEP), Malpelo Island and Cabo Corrientes (Colombia). Detailed host preference observations were done bi-annually at Malpelo Island. We analyzed the DNA sequence of the mitochondrial genes COI and 16S rDNA, extensively used in phylogenetic and DNA barcoding studies, to assess the evolutionary relationship among different egg-cowrie colorations and morphologies. Results. No genetic divergence among egg-cowries associated to different species of the same octocoral genus was observed based on the two mitochondrial genes analyzed. For instance, all egg-cowrie individuals from the two sampled localities observed on 8 different Pacifigorgia-Eugorgia species showed negligible mitochondrial divergence yet large morphologic divergence, which suggests that morphologies belonging to at least two sea snail species, Simnia avena (=S. aequalis) and Simnialena rufa, can cross-fertilize. Discussion. Our study system comprised background-matching mimicry, of the masquerade type, between egg-cowries (Simnia/Simnialena) and octocorals (Pacifigorgia/Eugorgia/Leptogorgia). We observed mimicry mismatches related to fitness trade-offs, such as reproductive aggregations vs. vulnerability against predators. Despite the general assumption that coevolution of mimicry involves speciation, egg-cowries with different hosts and colorations comprise the same lineages. Consequently, we infer that there would be significant tradeoffs between mimicry and the pursuit of reproductive aggregations in egg-cowries. The findings of this study not only contribute to the understanding of the evolution of mimicry in egg-cowries, a poorly studied group of marine gastropods, but also to the development of a new biologically meaningful board game that could be implemented as a learning tool.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2023/', ['Biodiversity', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Marine Biology', 'Zoology', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Departamento de Ciencias Biol\xf3gicas (Biommar), Universidad de los Andes, Bogota, Colombia', u'Department of Biology-Faculty of Sciences, Dalhousie University', u'Departamento de Biolog\xeda-Facultad de Ciencias Naturales y Exactas, Universidad del Valle', u'Departamento de F\xedsica, Universidad de los Andes', u'Departamento de Ciencias Biol\xf3gicas, Universidad de los Andes, Bogota, Colombia', u'Divisi\xf3n de Biolog\xeda Marina, ECOMAR Consultor\xeda Ambiental']]
[u'Performance of finite mixture distribution models to estimate nursery habitat contributions to fish stocks', ['Edwin J Niklitschek', 'Audrey M Darnaude'], u'2016-05-03', u'Background. Otolith microchemistry applications of finite mixture distribution models (FMDM) describe mixed stocks using three sets of parameters: proportional contributions (pi), baseline parameters (\u03b8i) and number of contributing nursery origins (c#). Under ideal scenarios, c# is known and all potential sources are sampled to produce source-based ^\u03b8i estimates. Hence, ^pi is the only parameter vector estimated by FMDM from the mixed-data. If some/all nursery areas are unknown or not sampled, some or all \u03b8i and c# need to be also estimated from the mixed-data. Our goal here was to assess bias and variability in ^pi, ^\u03b8i and ^c# when estimated by FMDM, under a range of data availability scenarios. Methods. We used a comprehensive Sparus aurata dataset, tat contained otolith elemental ratios from 301 young of the year, sampled at four nursery origins, in three highly contrasting years. Using bootstrap resampling (n=1000) we produced artificial source- and mixed-samples. Source-samples simulated different scenarios where KU=0-4 nursery sources were excluded. We evaluated bias (BI) and variability (VI) in ^pi by fitting FMDM to mixed-samples with true pi=0.1-0.4. Bias and variability in ^\u03b8i and ^c# were, instead, assessed on balanced mixed stock-samples (pi=0.25). Estimations of ^c# were obtained by fitting and comparing multiple FMDMs with c#=1-9. Results. Accurate and precise ^pi estimates (BI<0.03, VI<0.07) were produced by FMDM when samples from all origins were available (KU=0). BI and VI in ^pi tended to increase rapidly as KU increased, yielding unreliable results for KU>1. BI and VI in ^\u03b8i were highly heterogeneous among cohorts and less sensitive to KU. Relatively accurate ^\u03b8i estimates (BI<0.3) were produced for cohorts 2008 and 2010, but highly biased ones for cohort 2011 (VI>0.53), at all scenarios. Variability in ^\u03b8i was relatively low (VI<0.3) and insensitive to KU, across all cohorts. While ^c# tended to underestimate c# (BI=0.05 to -2.06), its variability was relatively high (VI=0.24-1.14) across scenarios and cohorts. Both bias and variability in ^c# were highly sensitive to KU. Discussion. FMDM estimated accurate and unbiased ^pi and ^\u03b8i parameters when all origins were known and sampled. FMDM performance decreased rapidly and all three set of estimated parameters became unreliable when \u22652 origins were missing from nursery-samples. Large differences in BI and VI among cohorts emphasized the need for extensive sampling of nursery origins. Being FMDM one default method for mixed stock analysis, we strongly recommend exploring alternative FMDM implementations and extreme caution when using results from FMDM, under incomplete sampling scenarios.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2022/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Computational Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Centro i~mar, Universidad de Los Lagos', u'Center for Marine Biodiversity, Exploitation & Conservation, Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique']]
[u'The Chicago ring-billed gull damage management project', ['Michelle L Bloomquist', 'John W Hartmann', 'Richard M Engeman', 'Travis G Guerrant', 'Scott F Beckerman'], u'2016-05-03', u'The population of ring-billed gulls in the upper Midwest has increased exponentially in recent decades leading to a variety of conflicts including property damage, negative economic impacts, threats to human safety, and potential threats to human health. Some studies have suggested a link between gull fecal droppings and elevated  Escherichia coli  levels in water, which result in swim advisories on public beaches. The objectives of the Chicago ring-billed gull damage management project were to reduce the local production of ring-billed gulls, to evaluate the affects that limiting gull production has on the use of beaches by gulls, and to reduce the severity of conflicts with gulls including the issuance of swim advisories. Between 2007 and 2014, we applied corn oil to 52 - 80% of nests in several gull colonies in Chicago and successfully reduced hatching success and subsequent fledging. It is estimated that we prevented the production of between 77,314 and 183,621 ring-billed gulls since initiation of the project. The number of hatch year gulls observed on Chicago\u2019s beaches during 2008 through 2014 has consistently been less than during the initial year of egg oiling, 2007. The reduction in the number of gulls using Chicago beaches has contributed to a reduction in conflicts with gulls, including a decrease in the frequency of swim advisories on Chicago\u2019s beaches in comparison to 2006.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2021/', ['Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science'], [u'United States Department of Agriculture/Wildlife Services', u'United States Department of Agriculture/Wildlife Services/National Wildlife Research Center']]
[u'How molecular tools can help understanding species interactions to improve restoration outcomes', ['Stephane Boyer', 'Benjamin R Waterhouse', 'Steve D Wratten'], u'2016-05-03', u'Preserving species interactions should be a key desired outcome in restoration ecology. With progress in environmental DNA techniques and the dramatic reduction in the cost of high-throughput DNA sequencing, large amounts of information can be gathered on how species interact with little to no disturbance to ecosystems. Here, we argue that the use of molecular tools to study ecological interactions will become increasingly important in restoration projects. We describe specific examples where recent advances in genetics allow for a better understanding of predator-prey, animal-plant, plant-microbe and trophic cascade interactions, which can inform restoration practice and substantially improve our capacity to restore functioning ecosystems.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2020/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Genetics', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Environmental and Animal Sciences, Unitec Institute of Technology', u'Bio-Protection Research Centre, Lincoln University']]
[u'Managing raptors to reduce wildlife strikes at Chicago\u2019s O\u2019Hare International Airport', ['Craig K. Pullins', 'Travis L. Guerrant', 'Scott F. Beckerman', 'Brian E. Washburn'], u'2016-05-03', u'Nationally, wildlife-aircraft collisions (wildlife strikes) have been increasing over the past 25 years; denoted in the National Wildlife Strike Database that has been maintained by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) since 1990. Increasing wildlife populations and air traffic coupled with quieter, faster aircraft create a significant risk to aviation safety; the cost to the civil aviation industry is an estimated $937 million dollars annually. USDA/APHIS/Wildlife Services (WS) provides technical and direct assistance to over 850 airports and airbases around the United States, including Chicago\u2019s O\u2019Hare International Airport (ORD). At ORD, raptors are one of the most commonly struck bird guild and accounted for at least 25% of damaging strikes from 2010-2013. An Integrated Wildlife Damage Management (IWDM) program is implemented at ORD to reduce the presence of wildlife on the airfield, consequently lowering the risk of wildlife strikes. Professional airport wildlife biologists at ORD concentrate much of their efforts on raptor management due to the high strike risk these birds pose to aircraft on the airfield itself. A variety of techniques are currently used to manage raptor populations at ORD. Concurrently, research is being conducted to evaluate the efficacy of the Red-tailed Hawk relocation program at the airport, as well as to assess their movements within the airfield environment.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2019/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Zoology'], [u'USDA-APHIS-Wildlife Services', u'USDA-APHIS-Wildlife Services', u'USDA-APHIS-Wildlife Services']]
[u'Conservation guidelines for the endangered Brown-eared pheasant based on the geographic information system and the MaxEnt model', ['Yilin Li', 'Xinhai Li', 'Zitan Song', 'Changqing Ding'], u'2016-05-03', u'We analyzed the synchronous relationship between forest cover and species distribution to explain the contraction in the distribution range of the brown-eared pheasant (Crossoptilon mantchuricum) in China. We consulted ancient texts to determine this pheasant\u2019s historical distribution from 25 to 1947 CE. Based on this species\u2019 habitat selection criteria, the history of the forests, ancient climate change records, and fossil data, we determined that the brown-eared pheasant\u2019s historical distribution included the three provinces of Shaanxi, Shanxi, and Hebei. It once inhabited an area of about 320,000 km2, as calculated by the minimum convex polygon method (MCP) in ArcGIS 10.0. The current species distribution covers 46,800 km2 of the Shaanxi, Shanxi, and Hebei provinces, as well as Beijing city, while Shanxi remains the center of the distribution area. This pheasant\u2019s distribution range has decreased by 85% over the past 2,000 years. We used the Mean Decrease Accuracy (MDA) index to assess the importance of the evaluation of 13 environmental factors using the Random Forests (RF) measure from the R 3.0.2 software platform. The results showed that vegetation is the most important determinant influencing distribution. We built a corresponding correlative relationship between the presence/absence of brown-eared pheasant and forest coverage and found that forest coverage in the north, northeast, central, and southeast areas of the Shanxi province were all less than 10% at the end of the Qing Dynasty (1911 CE). Our MaxEnt model indicated that the brown-eared pheasant had retreated to the western regions of Shanxi (AUC = 0.753) and that the historical distribution area had reduced synchronously with the disappearance of local forest cover in Shanxi. Wild brown-eared pheasant populations are stable in the Luliang Mountains, where forest coverage reached 13.2% in 2000. Consequently, we concluded that the distribution of this species is primarily determined by vegetation conditions and that forest cover was the most significant determining factor. To guarantee stable growth in the population and consistent distribution of the brown-eared pheasant, we suggest that forest coverage should be at least 48% in the natural reserves where the brown-eared pheasant is currently distributed.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2018/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Zoology', 'Histology'], [u'School of nature conservation, Beijing Forestry University', u'Key Laboratory of the Zoological Systematics and Evolution, Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences']]
[u'Response of endemic and exotic earthworm communities to ecological restoration', ['Stephane Boyer', 'Young-Nam Kim', 'Mike H Bowie', 'Marie-Caroline Lefort', 'Nicholas M Dickinson'], u'2016-05-03', u'New Zealand has 23 exotic and more than 200 endemic earthworm species. Endemic earthworms disappeared quickly after vegetation clearance and land conversion to agriculture from the early C19th. Environmental changes associated with agronomic practices are believed to have been the main drivers for their disappearance. Exotic earthworms introduced from Europe have since largely replaced endemic earthworms into farming systems and have been intentionally propagated to increase production. Little is known about potential competition between endemic and exotic earthworms in New Zealand, and the capacity of exotic earthworms to extend their range into native habitats. Using two sites in the South Island of New Zealand, we investigated the impact of restoring native vegetation on earthworm communities. The study sites were Quail Island (Banks Peninsula), which has been undergoing native plant restoration for more than 30 years, and the Punakaiki Coastal Restoration Project (West Coast) where 130,000 native trees have been planted in retired pasture in the last seven years. At each site, soil samples (20 x 20 x 20 cm) were collected and hand sorted for earthworms. Sequential restoration plantings revealed that recolonisation by endemic earthworms increases with time after restoration at the two sample sites. With increasing age of the restoration, the biomass of endemic earthworm significantly increased, as did abundance at Punakaiki. However, exotic species did not disappear after restoration of native vegetation, even after 30 years in Quail Island. The persistence of exotic species leads to the cohabitation of the two communities and potential for interspecific competition.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2017/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Soil Science', 'Zoology'], [u'Environmental and Animal Sciences, Unitec Institute of Technology', u'Bio-Protection Research Centre, Lincoln University', u'Department of Ecology, Faculty of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Lincoln University']]
[u'Molecular identification of new bacterial causative agent of ice-ice disease on seaweed Kappaphycus alvarezii', ['Marlina Achmad', 'Alimuddin Alimuddin', 'Utut Widyastuti', 'Sukenda Sukenda', 'Emma Suryanti', 'Enang Harris'], u'2016-05-03', u'Background. Ice-ice disease is still a big challenge for seaweed farming that is characterized with \u201cbleaching\u201d symptom. Bacteria are suspected as cause of ice-ice disease on seaweed Kappaphycus alvarezii. The 16S rRNA gene sequencing is current technique used for bacterial phylogeny and taxonomy studies. This study was aimed to identify bacterial onset of ice-ice disease on K. alvarezii. Methods. Eight sequenced isolates from Indonesia were identified and characterized by biochemical tests and sequenced by 16S rRNA gene as target. The isolates sequence compared to the strains of bacteria from GenBank. DNA sequences are analyzed with ClustalW program and phylogeny were performed using the result generated by Mega v.5. The micropropagules (2-4 cm) was soaked in seawater containing 106 cfu/ml of bacteria to determine the pathogenicity. Onset of ice-ice symptoms was visually observed every day. Histology are analyzed to show tissue of micropropagule post-infection by bacteria. Results. Identification of bacteria employed biochemical tests and 16 SrRNA gene sequence analysis. The results reveal eight species of bacteria, namely: Shewanella haliotis strain DW01, 2 Vibrio alginolyticus strain ATCC 17749, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia strain IAM 12323, Arthrobacter nicotiannae strain DSM 20123, Pseudomonas aeruginosa strain SNP0614, Ochrobactrum anthropic strain ATCC 49188, Catenococcus thiocycli strain TG 5-3 and Bacillus subtilis subsp.spizizenii strain ATCC 6633. In term of groups, bacteria S. haliotis, V. alginolyticus, S. maltophilia, P. aeruginosa and C. thiocycli are the in Gammaproteobacteria group and O. anthropi is in the Alphaproteobacteria group, A. nicotianae and B. subtilis is in the of Proteobacteria group both of are Actinobacteria and Firmicutes group Low GC respectively. The results showed that the fastest onset of ice-ice symptoms was caused by S. maltophilia (five hours post-infection), while the slowest it was caused by V. alginolyticus (44 hours post-infection). Other bacteria give rise to ice-ice symptoms for 15-21 hours post-infection. Thus, S. maltophilia also showed number of bleaching spot of higher than others. However, V. alginolyticus showed increased width of bleaching 2.29 mm2 greater than S. maltophilia. Discussion. Bacteria S. haliotis and V. alginolyticus were found in healthy thallus, while others were found in bleaching thallus. Indicator of bleaching this is the first study shows S. maltophilia association to ice-ice disease on K. alvarezii. Interaction of temperature with different disease-causing pathogens ice-ice on seaweed is unreported and it is thought-provoking to examine in further research. In addition, the bacteria isolated in this study is potentially used to hold the assembly seaweed ice-ice disease through the challenge test.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2016/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Marine Biology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Department of Fisheries / Faculty of Marine Science and Fisheries, Hasanuddin University', u'Department of Aquaculture/ Faculty of Fisheries and Marine Science, Bogor Agricultural University (IPB)', u'Department of Biology/Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Science, Bogor Agricultural University', u'Centre of Brackishwater Research and Development, Ministry of Marine Affairs and Fisheries Republic of Indonesia']]
[u'Information theoretic alignment free variant calling', ['Justin Bedo', 'Benjamin Goudey', 'Jeremy Wazny', 'Zeyu Zhou'], u'2016-05-03', u'While traditional methods for calling variants across whole genome sequence data rely on alignment to an appropriate reference sequence, alternative techniques are needed when a suitable reference does not exist. We present a novel alignment and assembly free variant calling method based on information theoretic principles designed to detect variants have strong statistical evidence for their ability to segregate samples in a given dataset. Our method uses the context surrounding a particular nucleotide to define variants. Given a set of reads, we model the probability of observing a given nucleotide conditioned on the surrounding prefix and suffixes of length k as a multinomial distribution. We then estimate which of these contexts are stable intra-sample and varying inter-sample using a statistic based on the Kullback\u2013Leibler divergence. The utility of the variant calling method was evaluated through analysis of a pair of bacterial datasets and a mouse dataset. We found that our variants are highly informative for supervised learning tasks with performance similar to standard reference based calls and another reference free method (DiscoSNP++). Comparisons against reference based calls showed our method was able to capture very similar population structure on the bacterial dataset. The algorithm\u2019s focus on discriminatory variants makes it suitable for many common analysis tasks for organisms that are too diverse to be mapped back to a single reference sequence.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2015/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'IBM Research -- Australia', u'Department of Computing and Information Systems, The University of Melbourne', u'Centre For Epidemiology and Biostatistics, The University of Melbourne', u'School of Mathematics and Statistics, The University of Melbourne']]
