[u'Where do we go from here: Challenges and the future of endocrine disrupting compound screening and testing', ['Vickie S Wilson', 'Gerald A LeBlanc', 'Seth Kullman', 'Kevin Crofton', 'Patricia Schmieder', 'Miriam N Jacobs'], u'2016-11-21', u'Worldwide concern about the impacts of endocrine disrupting compounds on both human and environmental health has led to implementation of multiple screening and testing programs. In most cases these programs have focused on impacts to the estrogen, androgen and thyroid hormone (EAT) signaling pathways. The goal of the presentations in session five of the Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry (SETAC) North America Focused Topic Meeting: Endocrine Disruption (February 4 \u2013 6, 2014) was to discuss moving beyond EAT pathways to address current challenges and identify future approaches for the expansion of screening and testing programs. The session was chaired by Drs. Gerald A. LeBlanc and Vickie S. Wilson and included five presentations. Dr. Gerald A. LeBlanc provided insight on non-EAT endocrine targets that are known to be susceptible to endocrine disrupting compounds. Dr. Seth Kullman gave an overview of emerging technologies that hold promise for the screening of chemicals for interaction with EAT and other endocrine pathways. These were followed by two presentations on the current status and future promise of computational (Dr. Kevin Crofton) and in silico (Dr. Patricia Schmieder) approaches for screening and ranking chemicals for endocrine activity. Dr. Miriam Jacobs culminated the session with an overview of the current understanding of the role of epigenetics in endocrine regulation and approaches for evaluating chemicals for their ability to disrupt the epigenetic regulation of endocrine processes.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2605/', ['Computational Biology', 'Toxicology', 'Science Policy'], [u'ORD, NHEERL, Toxicity Assessment Division, U.S Environmental Protection Agency', u'Toxicology Program, Dept of Biological Sciences, North Carolina State University', u'ORD, National Center for Computational Toxicology, U. S. Environmental Protection Agency', u'ORD, NHEERL, Mid-Continent Ecology Division, U. S. Environmental Protection Agency', u'Centre for Radiation, Chemical and Environmental Hazards Centre, Public Health England']]
[u'Systmod II: Approaching a real dynamic computer model for fish stock assessment and development of fishery strategies', ['Kristin Hamre', 'Steinar Moen', 'Johannes Hamre'], u'2016-11-21', u'Simulating development of fish stocks may be as complex as calculation of the development of the atmosphere, which is treated in meteorology as an initial value problem in physics. This approach was first proposed by Abbe and Bjerknes in the beginning of the 20 th  century and today huge systems of differential equations are used to predict the weather. A similar approach to fisheries biology and ecology requires a real dynamic population model, which calculates the development of fish stocks from an initial state with equations that are independent of time. Here we present Systmod II, which uses a length-based growth function with a parameter for environmental variation and length-based data structure. The model uses monthly time steps to integrate population growth by moving fish to higher length groups as they grow. Since fish growth and maturity correlate more with length than with age, this gives comprehensive and clear results. The model was validated for Norwegian Spring-Spawning herring, using observed data from ICES working groups, and correlations (R2) between simulated and observed stock (total stock, spawning stock and catchable stock, numbers and biomass) were above 0.93. At present, the model makes reliable predictions on the short term (3 year for herring). For long term forecasts, better predictions of recruitment are needed . Since length is the main variable of the growth function, the state of the fish stock, including variability in length per yearclass, can be measured in situ, using hydro-acoustic trawl surveys. Data for modelling of many of the relations are still lacking, but can be filled in from future field studies.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2604/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Computational Biology', 'Mathematical Biology'], [u'National Institute of Nutrition and Seafood Research (NIFES)', u'Powersim software AS', u'Institute of Marine Research']]
