[u'Development and validation of DNA metabarcoding COI primers for aquatic invertebrates using the R package "PrimerMiner"', ['Vasco Elbrecht', 'Florian Leese'], u'2016-05-15', u'1) DNA metabarcoding is a powerful tool to assess biodiversity by amplifying and sequencing a standardized gene marker region. However, typically used barcoding genes, such as the cytochrome c oxidase subunit I (COI) region for animals, are highly variable. Thus, different taxa in communities under study are often not amplified equally well and some might even remain undetected due to primer bias. To reduce these problems, optimized region- and/or ecosystem- specific metabarcoding primers are necessary. 2) We developed the R package PrimerMiner, which batch downloads DNA barcode gene sequences from BOLD and NCBI databases for specified target taxa and then applies sequence clustering to reduce biases introduced by differed number of available sequences per species. To design primers targeted for freshwater invertebrates, we downloaded COI data for the 15 most important invertebrate groups relevant for stream ecosystem assessment. Four primer sets with high base degeneracy were developed and their performance tested by sequencing ten mock community samples consisting each of 52 freshwater invertebrate taxa. Additionally, we evaluated the developed primers against other metabarcoding primers in silico using PrimerMiner. 3) Amplification and sequencing was successful for all ten mock community samples with the four different primer combinations. The developed primers varied in amplification efficiency and amount of taxa detected, but all primer sets detected more taxa than standard Folmer barcoding primers. Additionally, the BF / BR primers amplified taxa very consistently, the BF2+BR2 and BF2+BR1 primer combination even better than a previously tested ribosomal marker (16S). Except for the BF1+BR1 primer combination, all BF / BR primers detected all 42 insect taxa present in the mock samples. In silico evaluation of the developed primers showed that they are also likely to work very well on other non aquatic invertebrate samples. 4) With PrimerMiner, we here provide a useful tool to obtain relevant sequence data for targeted primer development and evaluation. Our sequence datasets generated with the newly developed metabarcoding primers demonstrate that the design of optimized primers with high base degeneracy is superior to classical markers and enable us to detect almost 100% of animal taxa present in a sample using the standard COI barcoding gene. Therefore, the PrimerMiner package and primers developed using this tool are useful beyond assessment of biodiversity in aquatic ecosystems.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2044/', ['Biodiversity', 'Bioinformatics', 'Ecology', 'Genetics', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Dept. Animal Ecology, Evolution and Biodiversity, Ruhr University Bochum', u'Aquatic Ecosytem Research, University of Duisburg-Essen', u'Centre for Water and Environmental Research (ZWU) Essen, University of Duisburg-Essen']]
[u'Evolutionary patterns of range size, abundance and species richness in Amazonian trees', ['Kyle Dexter', 'Jerome Chave'], u'2016-05-15', u'Amazonian tree species vary enormously in their total abundance and range size, while Amazonian tree genera vary greatly in species richness. Here, we construct a phylogenetic hypothesis that represents half of Amazonian tree genera in order to analyse evolutionary patterns of range size, abundance, and species richness. We find several clear, broad-scale patterns. Firstly, there is significant phylogenetic signal for all three characteristics, i.e. closely related genera tend to have similar numbers of species and similar mean range size and abundance. Additionally, the species richness of genera shows a significant, negative relationship with the mean range size and abundance of their constituent species, while mean range size and abundance are significantly, positively correlated. These correlations are stronger in the raw data, but still significant when using phylogenetically independent contrasts. We suggest that tree stature and/or other phylogenetically related biological traits underlie these results. Lineages comprised of small-statured trees show greater species richness and smaller range sizes and abundances. Lastly, the phylogenetic signal that we evidence for range size suggests that should many small ranged species go extinct, greater phylogenetic diversity may be lost than expected if range size were distributed randomly across the phylogeny.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2043/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Plant Science'], [u'School of GeoSciences, University of Edinburgh', u'Royal Botanic Garden Edinburgh', u'Laboratoire Evolution et Diversti\xe9 Biologique, Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique']]
