[u'A scaled-down workflow for Illumina shotgun sequencing library preparation: lower input and improved performance at small fraction of the cost', ['Jo Ann Tan', 'Alexander S Mikheyev'], u'2016-09-23', u'The high cost of library preparation remains a major obstacle to sequencing large numbers of individual genomes. Illumina\u2019s proprietary tagmentation technology allows for rapid and easy preparation of sequencing libraries, but remains prohibitively expensive for many users. Here we propose a modified version of the protocol, which uses Illumina reagents at 1/20th the scale. We show that the scaled-down protocol performs comparably to that of the manufacturer on a non-model insect genome. Surprisingly, the scaled-down protocol also produced 14% fewer PCR duplicates that the full-scale protocol. Since PCR duplicates effectively wasted redundant data, our protocol presented here can help save not just library preparation costs, but sequencing costs as well.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2475/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genomics', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Ecology and Evolution Unit, Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology Graduate University']]
[u'Macroecology for microbiology', ['Jay T Lennon', 'Kenneth J Locey'], u'2016-09-26', u'To microbiologists, the term macroecology may conjure iconic images of wildebeests grazing in African savannahs or hummingbirds pollinating flowers in a tropical rain forest. Contrary to what the name implies, macroecology is not the ecological study of macroscopic organisms. Rather, macroecology is the study of ecological relationships through patterns in abundance, distribution, and diversity. In this paper, we highlight some of the pressing questions, challenges, and opportunities for microbial macroecology.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2478/', ['Biodiversity', 'Biogeography', 'Bioinformatics', 'Ecology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Biology, Indiana University']]
[u'SNF: Synthesizing high performance NFV service chains', ['Georgios P Katsikas', 'Marcel Enguehard', 'Maciej Kuzniar', 'Gerald Q Maguire Jr.', 'Dejan Kostic'], u'2016-09-26', u'In this paper we introduce SNF, a framework that synthesizes (S) network function (NF) service chains by eliminating redundant I/O and repeated elements, while consolidating stateful cross layer packet operations across the chain. SNF uses graph composition and set theory to determine traffic classes handled by a service chain composed of multiple elements. It then synthesizes each traffic class using a minimal set of new elements that apply single-read-single-write and early-discard operations.\nOur SNF prototype takes a baseline state-of-the-art network functions virtualization (NFV) framework to the level of performance required for practical NFV service deployments. Software-based SNF realizes long (up to 10 NFs) and stateful service chains that achieve line-rate 40 Gbps throughput (up to 8.5x greater than the baseline NFV framework). Hardware-assisted SNF, using a commodity OpenFlow switch, shows that our approach scales at 40 Gbps for Internet Service Provider-level NFV deployments.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2477/', ['Computer Networks and Communications'], [u'Department of Communication Systems (CoS), School of Information and Communication Technology (ICT), KTH Royal Institute of Technology', u'Network and Computer Science Department (INFRES), Telecom ParisTech', u'Paris Innovation and Research Laboratory (PIRL), Cisco Systems']]
[u'Protein structure refinement using a quantum mechanics-based chemical shielding predictor', ['Lars A. Bratholm', 'Jan H. Jensen'], u'2016-09-26', u'The accurate prediction of protein chemical shifts using quantum mechanics (QM)-based method has been the subject of intense research for more than 20 years but so far empirical methods for chemical shift prediction have proven more accurate. In this paper we show that a QM-based predictor of protein backbone and CB chemical shifts (ProCS15, PeerJ 2016, 3:e1344) is of comparable accuracy to empirical chemical shift predictors after chemical shift-based structural refinement that removes small structural errors. We present a method by which quantum chemistry based predictions of isotropic chemical shielding values (ProCS15) can be used to refine protein structures using Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) simulations, relating the chemical shielding values to the experimental chemical shifts probabilistically. Two kinds of MCMC structural refinement simulations were performed using force field geometry optimized X-ray structures as starting points: Simulated annealing of the starting structure and constant temperature MCMC simulation followed by simulated annealing of a representative ensemble structure. Annealing of the CHARMM structure changes the CA-RMSD by an average of 0.4 \xc5 but lowers the chemical shift RMSD by 1.0 and 0.7 ppm for CA and N. Conformational averaging has a relatively small effect (0.1 - 0.2 ppm) on the overall agreement with carbon chemical shifts but lowers the error for nitrogen chemical shifts by 0.4 ppm. If a residue-specific offset is included the ProCS15 predicted chemical shifts have RMSD values relative to experiment that are comparable to popular empirical chemical shift predictors. The annealed representative ensemble structures differs in CA-RMSD relative to the initial structures by an average of 2.0 \xc5, with >2.0 \xc5 difference for six proteins. In four of the cases, the largest structural differences arise in structurally flexible regions of the protein as determined by NMR, and in the remaining two cases, the large structural change may be due to force field deficiencies. The overall accuracy of the empirical methods are slightly improved by annealing the CHARMM structure with ProCS15, which may suggest that the minor structural changes introduced by ProCS15-based annealing improves the accuracy of the protein structures. Having established that QM-based chemical shift prediction can deliver the same accuracy as empirical shift predictors we hope this can help increase the accuracy of related approaches such as QM/MM or linear scaling approaches or interpreting protein structural dynamics from QM-derived chemical shift.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2476/', ['Biophysics'], [u'Department of  Chemistry, University of Copenhagen']]
