[u'Finding melanoma drugs through a probabilistic knowledge graph', ['James P McCusker', 'Michel Dumontier', 'Rui Yan', 'Sylvia He', 'Jonathan S Dordick', 'Deborah L McGuinness'], u'2016-04-28', u'Metastatic cutaneous melanoma is an aggressive skin cancer with some progression-slowing treatments but no known cure. The omics data explosion has created many possible drug candidates, however filtering criteria remain challenging, and systems biology approaches have become fragmented with many disconnected databases. Using drug, protein, and disease interactions, we built an evidence-weighted knowledge graph of integrated interactions. Our knowledge graph-based system, ReDrugS, can be used via an API or web interface, and has generated 25 high quality melanoma drug candidates. We show that probabilistic analysis of systems biology graphs increases drug candidate quality compared to non-probabilistic methods. Four of the 25 candidates are novel therapies, three of which have been tested with other cancers. All other candidates have current or completed clinical trials, or have been studied in in vivo or in vitro. This approach can be used to identify candidate therapies for use in research or personalized medicine.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2007/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Data Science', 'World Wide Web and Web Science'], [u'Department of Computer Science, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute', u'Stanford Center for Biomedical Informatics Research, Stanford University School of Medicine', u'Department of Chemical & Biological Engineering, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute', u'Center for Biotechnology & Interdisciplinary Studies, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute']]
[u'Gall-ID: tools for genotyping gall-causing phytopathogenic bacteria', ['Edward W Davis II', 'Alexandra J Weisberg', 'Javier F Tabima', 'Niklaus J. Grunwald', 'Jeff Chang'], u'2016-04-28', u'Understanding the population structure and genetic diversity of plant pathogens, as well as the effect of agricultural practices on pathogen evolution, are important for disease management. Developments in molecular methods have contributed to increasing the resolution for accurate pathogen identification but those based on analysis of DNA sequences can be less straightforward to use. To address this, we developed Gall-ID, a web-based platform that uses DNA sequence information from 16S rDNA, multilocus sequence analysis and whole genome sequences to group disease-associated bacteria to their taxonomic units. Gall-ID was developed with a particular focus on gall-forming bacteria belonging to Agrobacterium, Pseudomonas savastanoi, Pantoea agglomerans, and Rhodococcus. Members of these groups of bacteria cause growth deformation of plants, and some are capable of infecting many species of field, orchard, and nursery crops. Gall-ID also enables the use of high-throughput sequencing reads to search for evidence for homologs of characterized virulence genes, and provides downloadable software pipelines for automating multilocus sequence analysis, analyzing genome sequences for average nucleotide identity, and constructing core genome phylogenies. Lastly, additional databases were included in Gall-ID to help determine the identity of other plant pathogenic bacteria that may be in microbial communities associated with galls or causative agents in other diseased tissues of plants. The URL for Gall-ID is http://gall-id.cgrb.oregonstate.edu/.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1998/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Bioinformatics', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology', 'Taxonomy'], [u'Botany and Plant Pathology, Oregon State University', u'Molecular and Cellular Biology Program, Oregon State University', u'Center for Genome Research and Biocomputing, Oregon State University', u'Horticultural Crops Research Laboratory, USDA-ARS']]
[u'A horizon scan of future threats and opportunities for pollinators and pollination', ['Mark JF Brown', 'Lynn V Dicks', 'Robert J Paxton', 'Katherine C R Baldock', 'Andrew B Barron', 'Marie-Pierre Chauzat', 'Breno M Freitas', 'Dave Goulson', 'Sarina Jepsen', 'Claire Kremen', 'Jilian Li', 'Peter Neumann', 'David E Pattemore', 'Simon G Potts', 'Oliver Schweiger', 'Colleen L Seymour', 'Jane C Stout'], u'2016-04-28', u'Background. Pollinators, which provide the agriculturally and ecologically essential service of pollination, are under threat at a global scale. Habitat loss and homogenisation, pesticides, parasites and pathogens, invasive species, and climate change have been identified as past and current threats to pollinators. Actions to mitigate these threats, e.g., agri-environment schemes and pesticide-use moratoriums, exist, but have largely been applied post-hoc. However, future sustainability of pollinators and the service they provide requires anticipation of potential threats and opportunities before they occur, enabling timely implementation of policy and practice to prevent, rather than mitigate, further pollinator declines. Methods. Using a horizon scanning approach we identified issues that are likely to impact pollinators, either positively or negatively, over the coming three decades. Results. Our analysis highlights six high priority, and nine secondary issues. High priorities are: (1) corporate control of global agriculture, (2) novel systemic pesticides, (3) novel RNA viruses, (4) the development of new managed pollinators, (5) more frequent heatwaves and drought under climate change, and (6) the potential positive impact of reduced chemical use on pollinators in non-agricultural settings. Discussion. While current pollinator management approaches are largely driven by mitigating past impacts, we present opportunities for pre-emptive practice, legislation, and policy to sustainably manage pollinators for future generations.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2006/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology'], [u'School of Biological Sciences, Royal Holloway University of London', u'Conservation Science Group, Department of Zoology, University of Cambridge', u'Institute for Biology, Martin-Luther-University Halle-Wittenberg', u'iDiv, German Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Research Halle-Jena-Leipzig', u'School of Biological Sciences, University of Bristol', u'Cabot Institute, University of Bristol', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Macquarie University', u'European reference laboratory for honeybee health, Unit of honeybee pathology & Unit of coordination and support to surveillance, ANSES', u'Departamento de Zootecnia, Centro de Ci\xeancias Agr\xe1rias, Universidade Federal do Cear\xe1', u'School of Life Sciences, University of Sussex', u'The Xerces Society for Invertebrate Conservation', u'Berkeley Food Institute, Environmental Sciences Policy and Management, University of California Berkeley', u'Institute of Apicultural Research, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences', u'Institute of Bee Health, Vetsuisse Faculty, University of Bern', u'The New Zealand Institute for Plant & Food Research Limited', u'Centre for Agri-Environmental Research, School of Agriculture, Policy and Development, University of Reading', u'Department of Community Ecology, Helmholtz Centre for Environmental Research - UFZ', u'South African National Biodiversity Institute, Kirstenbosch Research Centre', u'Percy FitzPatrick Institute of African Ornithology, DST/NRF Centre of Excellence, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Cape Town', u'Botany, School of Natural Sciences, Trinity College Dublin, the University of Dublin']]
[u'Microbe-ID: An open source toolbox for microbial genotyping and species identification', ['Javier F Tabima', 'Sydney E Everhart', 'Meredith M Larsen', 'Alexandra J Weisberg', 'Zhian N Kamvar', 'Matthew A Tancos', 'Christine D Smart', 'Jeff H Chang', 'Niklaus J Grunwald'], u'2016-04-28', u'Development of tools to identify species, genotypes, or novel strains of invasive organisms is critical for monitoring emergence and implementing rapid response measures. Molecular markers, although critical to identifying species or genotypes, require bioinformatic tools for analysis. However, user-friendly analytical tools for fast identification are not readily available. To address this need, we created a web-based set of applications called Microbe-ID that allow for customizing a toolbox for rapid species identification and strain genotyping using any genetic markers of choice. Two components of Microbe-ID, named Sequence-ID and Genotype-ID, implement species and genotype identification, respectively. Sequence-ID allows identification of species by using BLAST to query sequences for any locus of interest against a custom reference sequence database. Genotype-ID allows placement of an unknown multilocus marker in either a minimum spanning network or dendrogram with bootstrap support from a user-created reference database. Microbe-ID can be used for identification of any organism based on nucleotide sequences or any molecular marker type and several examples are provided. We created a public website for demonstration purposes called Microbe-ID ( www.microbe-id.org ) and provided a working implementation for the genus Phytophthora ( www.phytophthora-id.org ). In Phytophthora-ID, the Sequence-ID application allows identification based on ITS or cox spacer sequences. Genotype-ID groups individuals into clonal lineages based on simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers for the two invasive plant pathogen species P. infestans and P. ramorum. All code is open source and available on github and CRAN. Instructions for installation and use are provided at https://github.com/grunwaldlab/Microbe-ID.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2005/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Bioinformatics', 'Microbiology', 'Mycology', 'Taxonomy'], [u'Department of Botany and Plant Pathology, Oregon State University', u'Department of Plant Pathology, University of Nebraska', u'Horticultural Crops Research Laboratory, USDA Agricultural Research Service', u'Plant Pathology and Plant-Microbe Biology Section, School of Integrative Plant Science, Cornell University', u'Molecular and Cellular Biology Graduate Program and Center for Genome Biology and Biocomputing, Oregon State University']]
[u'Geometric morphometric analysis of intratrackway variability: A case study on theropod and ornithopod dinosaur trackways from M\xfcnchehagen (Lower Cretaceous, Germany)', ['Jens N Lallensack', 'Anneke H van Heteren', 'Oliver Wings'], u'2016-04-27', u'A profound understanding of the influence of trackmaker anatomy, foot movements and substrate properties is crucial for any interpretation of fossil tracks. In this case study we analyze variability of footprint shape within one large theropod (T3), one medium-sized theropod (T2) and one ornithopod (I1) trackway from the Lower Cretaceous of M\xfcnchehagen (Lower Saxony, Germany) in order to determine the informativeness of individual features and measurements for ichnotaxonomy, trackmaker identification, and the discrimination between left and right footprints. Landmark analysis is employed based on interpretative outline drawings derived from photogrammetric data, allowing for the location of variability within the footprint and the assessment of covariation of separate footprint parts. Objective methods to define the margins of a footprint are tested and shown to be sufficiently accurate to reproduce the most important results. The lateral hypex and the heel are the most variable regions in the two theropod trackways. As indicated by principal component analysis, a posterior shift of the lateral hypex is correlated with an anterior shift of the margin of the heel. This pattern is less pronounced in the ornithopod trackway, indicating that variation patterns can differ in separate trackways. In all trackways, hypices vary independently from each other, rendering their relative position a questionable feature for ichnotaxonomic purposes. Most criteria commonly employed to differentiate between left and right footprints assigned to theropods are found to be reasonably reliable. The described ornithopod footprints are asymmetrical, again allowing for a left-right differentiation. Strikingly, 12 out of 19 measured footprints of the T2 trackway are stepped over the trackway midline, rendering the trackway pattern a misleading left-right criterion for this trackway. Traditional measurements were unable to differentiate between the theropod and the ornithopod trackways. Geometric morphometric analysis reveals potential for improvement of existing discriminant methods.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2004/', ['Paleontology'], [u'Division of Paleontology, Steinmann Institute, University of Bonn', u'Nieders\xe4chsisches Landesmuseum']]
[u'Conserved queen pheromones in bumblebees: A reply to Amsalem et al.', ['Luke Holman', 'Jelle S van Zweden', 'Ricardo Caliari Oliveira', 'Annette van Oystaeyen', 'Tom Wenseleers'], u'2016-04-26', u'In a recent study, Amsalem et al. performed experiments with Bombus impatiens bumblebees to test the hypothesis that saturated cuticular hydrocarbons are evolutionarily conserved signals used to regulate reproductive division of labour in many Hymenopteran social insects. They concluded that the cuticular hydrocarbon pentacosane (C25), previously identified as a queen pheromone in a congeneric bumblebee, does not affect worker reproduction in B. impatiens. Here we identify some significant shortcomings of Amsalem et al.\u2019s study that make its conclusions unreliable. In particular, inappropriate statistical tests were used, and a reanalysis of their dataset found that C25 substantially reduced and delayed worker egg laying in B. impatiens. Additionally, the study\u2019s low sample sizes (mean n per treatment = 13.6, range: 4-23) give it low power, not 99% power as claimed, meaning that some its non-significant results may be false negatives. Additionally, several confounding effects may have affected the results of both experimental manipulations in the study', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2003/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Evolutionary Studies'], [u'School of Biosciences, University of Melbourne', u'Laboratory of Socioecology and Social Evolution, Zoological Institute, University of Leuven', u'Research and development, Biobest Belgium NV']]
[u'Quick tips to perform a metabolomics study', ['Biswapriya B Misra'], u'2016-04-26', u'Nascent, burgeoning, youngest, \u2018connecting link between genotype and phenotype\u2019 are just some of the phrases associated with this \u2018omics\u2019 where small molecules (metabolites with molecular weight < 2000 Daltons) are studied in biological systems, i.e., metabolomics. Currently, due to recent advances in the field, metabolomics has demanded large attention from scientists as it has shown tremendous potential in basic research such as the study interaction of \u2018omes\u2019 and the discovery of new biochemical pathways. Other areas of impact include metabolic regulation, disease biomarker identification, personalized medicine, clinical trials, toxicology, nutrigenomics, medicine diagnosis, and agriculture. Also included are industrial applications such as metabolic engineering in strain improvement in microbes. Here, the attempt is to get the scientific community interested and excited about the potential use of metabolomics in their existing research areas, by widening its dimensions to another level of data-oriented science leading to better interpretation and understanding of the function and behavior of organisms. Nonetheless, while excellent pioneering reviews and extremely successful studies exist in metabolomics, a summary and/or overview of this area is lacking at this moment. Thus, the target audience are not only researchers who are venturing into metabolomics, but also early career researchers, investigators, students, and individuals interested in implementing metabolomics in their current research and field. Typically, study design to publication can span from months to years in some cases, but without a general grasp of how beneficial and easy to implement metabolomics can be, further inquiry into the field may be mistakenly overlooked. I attempt to summarize and encapsulate the \u2018usual\u2019 trends in such efforts, identifying the critical steps to make the trends all fit into these quick tips. The objective of this article is to provide a bird\u2019s eye view of metabolomics research that can be enjoyed over a mug of coffee while simultaneously providing an outline for a variety of audiences interested in incorporating this fascinating field in their work.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2002/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Plant Science', 'Metabolic Sciences', 'Computational Science'], [u'Independent Researcher']]
[u'Climate induced wolf prey selection in Yellowstone National Park, 1995-2015', ['Douglas W Smith', 'Matthew Metz', 'Chris Wilmers', 'Daniel Stahler', 'Chris Geremia'], u'2016-04-26', u'Prey selection by wolves has been a fundamental and long-term topic of interest for wolf-prey studies. Virtually all studies conclude the selectivity of wolf predation and typically identify what made an individual vulnerable. Vulnerability, however, varies for multiple reasons and emerging research is discovering climate induced effects on prey forage altering condition and selective advantage of migration. We present data from a twenty year study of wolf-elk predation in Yellowstone National Park (YNP) which found bull elk killed more frequently in early winter after years with less snowfall compared to years with normal snowfall. Snowfall impacted summer forage, which impacted bull elk condition going into the autumn rut, which weakened elk prematurely post-rut causing them to be selected by wolves in early rather than late winter, and possibly caused more bulls to be killed overall. Bull elk ratios have declined over the last 20 years (from 40-60 to 10-15 bulls/100 cows; lower outside YNP), which has led to calls for a reduced human harvest on bulls which has been met with significant resistance. Understanding the interaction between climate, forage and wolf predation on bull elk (and other sex/age classes) will help guide management decisions and potentially sustain hunting of bulls in the long term as well as protect natural management objectives within YNP. Results will be of widespread value as they may suggest changing predator-prey dynamics across North America by making some otherwise healthy prey vulnerable to predation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2001/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology'], [u'National Park Service, Yellowstone National Park', u'University of Montana', u'University of California', u'National Park Service']]
[u'Making scientific research accessible: Urban teens conducting field research in the Chicago metropolitan area', ['Matthew P Mulligan', 'Ellen Bechtol', 'Mason Fidino', 'Elizabeth W Lehrer', 'Matthew Heintz', 'Christina Grant', 'Seth B Magle', 'Jamie Herget', 'Leah Melber', 'Emma Martell'], u'2016-04-26', u'As human populations\u2019 transition to urban and suburban environments, there can be an evident disconnect from the natural world. Interactive programs can introduce youth to scientific methods with the hope of invoking an interest in nature. A majority of these programs, however, are brief and do not revisit key concepts after the data collection process is complete. To address this, the Hurvis Center for Learning Innovation and Collaboration designed programs primarily for underserved Chicago-area high school youth to work as \u201cstudent field researchers.\u201d The Partners in Fieldwork program contains 9 schools with 577 students collecting wildlife data throughout the school year using camera traps, bird surveys, giving-up density (GUD) studies, and acoustic bat monitors for our Urban Wildlife Institute (UWI) scientists. Cognitive gains and affective impact of participating students were analyzed by administering pre- and post-knowledge questionnaires, post-program surveys (0, 6, and 12 months after the program), and focus group discussions. Another program, the Research Apprenticeship Program (RAP) allows four teen youth to shadow both the UWI and the Davee Center for Epidemiology and Endocrinology at Lincoln Park Zoo. Youth collected data over the course of eight weeks ranging from butterfly and dragonfly surveys to evaluating stress hormones in Bactrian Camels. RAP youth compiled and analyzed their data into scientific posters and a formal presentation. An extension of the RAP program allows youth to continue their experience once a month during the school year by strengthening their career building skills and designing a custom field trip for their peers. Further evaluation of both programs is currently underway.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2000/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Hurvis Center for Learning Innovation and Collaboration, Lincoln Park Zoo', u'Urban Wildlife Institute, Lincoln Park Zoo', u'Davee Center for Epidemiology and Endocrinology, Lincoln Park Zoo']]
[u"The Urban Wildlife Institute: Exploring Chicago's wildlife", ['Seth Magle'], u'2016-04-26', u'The Lincoln Park Zoo founded the Urban Wildlife Institute (UWI) in 2008, with the goal of conducting science to minimize conflict between humans and wildlife in cities around the world. UWI has since created a massive and unprecedented urban wildlife biodiversity monitoring network throughout the Chicagoland region. We will briefly summarize some of our findings on Chicago\u2019s mammal, bat, arthropod, and bird populations, with special emphasis on our database of over 200,000 images of urban wildlife captured using motion-triggered cameras. Our research has not only uncovered new information about how urban animals select habitat and persist within urban landscapes, but has also helped connect the people of Chicago to the natural world through educational outreach and citizen science initiatives such as Partners in Fieldwork, and Chicago Wildlife Watch. UWI is working to ensure humans and wildlife can coexist in cities around the world, and also to remind growing urban populations that urban areas are ecosystems that are just as capable of inspiring wonder as the wildest jungles.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1999/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology'], [u'Urban Wildlife Institute, Lincoln Park Zoo']]
[u'Social isolation increased ADAR1 expressions leading to cognitive deficits of mice', ['Wei Chen', 'Dong An', 'Hong Xu', 'Xiaoxin Cheng', 'Shiwei Wang', 'Weizhi Yu', 'Deqin Yu', 'Dan Zhao', 'Yiping Sun', 'Wuguo Deng', 'Yiyuan Tang', 'Shengming Yin'], u'2016-04-26', u'A lot of literature show that social isolation stress could be a key reason that leads to cognitive deficits for both humans and rodent models; however, the detailed mechanisms are still not clear completely. ADAR1 (Adenosine deaminase acting on RNA) is an enzyme involved in RNA editing that has a close relation to cognitive function. We hypothesize that social isolation stress may impact the expression of ADAR1, leading to cognitive deficits. To prove our hypothesis, we evaluated the cognition ability of the mice isolated for different durations (2, 4, and 8 weeks) using object recognition and object location tests; we also measured ADAR1 expressions in hippocampus and cortex using immunohistochemistry and western blot. Our study showed that social isolation stress significantly induced spatial and non-spatial cognition deficits. In addition, social isolation significantly increased both the immuno reactivity and protein expressions of ADAR1 in the hippocampus and frontal cortex. Furthermore, we found that adolescent re-socialization recovered not only the cognition deficits but also the increased ADAR1 protein expression in hippocampus and the increased number of ADAR1 positive cells in frontal cortex of the isolated mice. In conclusion, social isolation stress significantly increased ADAR1 expressions in the hippocampus and cortex, leading to cognitive deficits.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1997/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Biochemistry', 'Neuroscience', 'Toxicology', 'Pharmacology'], [u'College of Basic Medical Sciences, Dalian Medical University', u'Department of Physiology Laboratory, Dalian Medical University', u'Menzies Research Institute, University of Tasmania', u'Institute of Cancer Stem Cell, Dalian Medical University', u'Texas Tech University, Texas Tech Neuroimaging Institute']]
[u'Understanding the functional components of predator-prey response to habitat restoration: A Bayesian approach', ['Robert McNay', 'Glenn D Sutherland', 'Meghan S Anderson', 'Viktor Brumovsky', 'Line Giguere', 'Melanie Dickie', 'Michael Cody'], u'2016-04-26', u'Effective action planning for recovering endangered populations of boreal caribou (Rangifer tarandus caribou) requires an understanding of the functional interactions between: (1) responses by predators to current and prospective future habitat conditions, (2) responses of prey to population and habitat conditions influencing apparent competition, and (3) residual effects of past population bottlenecks. Monitoring recovery trajectories when human-altered habitats are restored requires consideration of many cause-effect linkages operating among multiple species and across multiple ecological scales. We developed a Bayesian Belief Network (BBN) to help frame potential functional responses of 2 predators (wolves, bears) and 2 prey (moose, caribou) to a large-scaled, silviculturally-based, habitat restoration experiment conducted within the Cold Lake caribou herd area in the Alberta oil sands. The full BBN consists of three general components: (1) those related to predator and prey movements, including use of non-restored and restored habitat features as those opposed conditions affect travel speed and search rates of predators; (2) those related to daily and seasonal use of habitat and how that may affect encounter probabilities between predators and prey; and (3) those related to the probability of kill given an encounter between predator and prey. These components structured in a BBN architecture support the application of the basic parameters in Holling\u2019s disc equation, particularly: seasonal predator search rates and probability of a kill given an encounter (i.e., the area of effective search). We used the BBN to map the functional response spatially and to assess the dynamics of the predators and prey (demographics and response to restoration treatments). Our understanding of these hypothetical responses will, in the future, help shape management actions designed to reduce predator density and prey risk. To demonstrate the management utility of this approach, we plan to set BBN prior probabilities for each model component using 4 types of data: (1) habitat conditions measured semi-annually; (2) GPS relocation data from 128 individual predators (77 wolves; 51 bears) and 34 prey (25 moose and 9 caribou); (3) kill site investigations; and (4) DNA analyses of prey species density.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1996/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science'], [u'Wildlife Infometrics Inc.', u'Wildlife Infometrics Inc.', u'Wildlife Infometrics Inc.', u'MD Consulting', u'Cenovus Energy']]
[u'Potential ecosystem service delivery by endemic plants in New Zealand vineyards: successes and prospects', ['Morgan Shields', 'Jean-Marie Tompkins', 'David J Saville', 'Colin D Meurk', 'Stephen Wratten'], u'2016-04-25', u"Vineyards worldwide occupy over 7 million hectares and are typically virtual monocultures, with high and costly inputs of water and agro-chemicals. Understanding and enhancing ecosystem services can reduce inputs and their costs and help satisfy market demands for evidence of more sustainable practices. In this New Zealand work, low-growing, endemic plant species were evaluated for their potential benefits as Service Providing Units (SPUs) or Ecosystem Service Providers (ESPs). The services provided were weed suppression, conservation of beneficial invertebrates, soil moisture retention and microbial activity. The potential Ecosystem Dis-services (EDS) from the selected plant species by hosting the larvae of a key vine moth pest, the light-brown apple moth (Epiphyas postvittana), was also quantified. Questionnaires were used to evaluate winegrowers\u2019 perceptions of the value of and problems associated with such endemic plant species in their vineyards. Growth and survival rates of the 14 plant species, in eight families, were evaluated, with Leptinella dioica (Asteraceae) and Acaena inermis \u2018purpurea\u2019 (Rosaceae) having the highest growth rates in terms of area covered and the highest survival rate after 12 months. All 14 plant species suppressed weeds, with Leptinella squalida, Geranium sessiliforum (Geraniaceae), Hebe chathamica (Plantaginaceae), Scleranthus uniflorus (Caryophyllaceae) and L. dioica, each reducing weed cover by > 95%. Plant species also differed in the diversity of arthropod taxa that they supported, with the Shannon Wiener diversity index (H') for these arthropods ranging from 0 to 1.3. G. sessiliforum and Muehlenbeckia axillaris (Polygonaceae) had the highest invertebrate diversity. Density of spiders was correlated with arthropod diversity and G. sessiliflorum and H. chathamica had the highest densities of these arthropods. Several plant species led to higher soil moisture content than in control plots. The best performing species in this context were A. inermis \u2018purpurea\u2019 and Lobelia angulata (Lobeliaceae). Soil beneath all plant species had a higher microbial activity than in control plots, with L. dioica being highest in this respect. Survival proportion to the adult stage of the moth pest, E. postvittana, on all plant species was poor (<0.3). When judged by a ranking combining multiple criteria, the most promising plant species were (in decreasing order) G. sessiliflorum, A. inermis \u2018purpurea\u2019, H. chathamica, M. axillaris, L. dioica, L. angulata, L. squalida and S. uniflorus. Winegrowers surveyed said that they probably would deploy endemic plants around their vines. This research demonstrates that enhancing plant diversity in vineyards can deliver SPUs, harbour ESPs and therefore deliver ES. The data also shows that growers are willing to follow these protocols, with appropriate advice founded on sound research.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1995/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Entomology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Bio-Protection Research Centre, Lincoln University', u'Environment Canterbury', u'Saville Statistical Consulting Limited', u'Landcare Research']]
[u'Behavioral flexibility in an invasive bird is independent of other behaviors', ['Corina J Logan'], u'2016-04-24', u'Behavioral flexibility is considered important for a species to adapt to environmental change. Yet behavioral flexibility relates to problem solving ability and speed in unpredictable ways. This leaves an open question of whether behavioral flexibility instead varies with differences in individual behaviors, such as neophobia or exploration. If present, such correlations would mask which behavior causes individual variation. I investigated whether behavioral flexibility (reversal learning) performances were linked with other behaviors in great-tailed grackles, an invasive bird. I found that behavioral flexibility did not significantly correlate with neophobia, exploration, risk aversion, persistence, or motor diversity. This suggests that great-tailed grackle performance in behavioral flexibility tasks reflect a distinct source of individual variation. Maintaining multiple distinct sources of individual variation, and particularly variation in behavioral flexibility, may be a mechanism for this species\u2019 invasion success by permitting populations to cope with the diversity of novel elements in their environments.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1994/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Zoology, University of Cambridge', u'SAGE Center for the Study of the Mind, University of California, Santa Barbara']]
[u'The in vitro and in vivo effects of constitutive light expression on the mouse enteropathogen Citrobacter rodentium', ['Hannah M Read', 'Grant Mills', 'Sarah Johnson', 'Peter Tsai', 'James Dalton', 'Lars Barquist', 'Cristin G Print', 'Wayne M Patrick', 'Siouxsie Wiles'], u'2016-04-23', u'Bioluminescent reporter genes, such as those from fireflies and bacteria, let researchers use light production as a non-invasive and non-destructive surrogate measure of microbial numbers in a wide variety of environments. As bioluminescence needs microbial metabolites, tagging microorganisms with luciferases means only live metabolically active cells are detected. Despite the wide use of bioluminescent reporter genes, very little is known about the impact of continuous (also called constitutive) light expression on tagged bacteria. We have previously made a bioluminescent strain of Citrobacter rodentium, a bacterium which infects laboratory mice in a similar way to how enteropathogenic Escherichia coli (EPEC) and enterohaemorrhagic E. coli (EHEC) infect humans. In this study, we investigated whether constitutive light expression makes the bioluminescent C. rodentium strain ICC180 less competitive when competed against its non-bioluminescent parent (strain ICC169). To understand more about the metabolic burden of expressing light, we also compared the growth profiles of the two strains under approximately 2000 different conditions. We found that constitutive light expression in ICC180 was near-neutral in almost every non-toxic environment tested. However, we also found that the non-bioluminescent parent strain has a competitive advantage over ICC180 during infection of adult mice, although this was not enough for ICC180 to be completely outcompeted. In conclusion, our data suggests that constitutive light expression is not metabolically costly to C. rodentium and supports the view that bioluminescent versions of microbes can be used as a substitute for their non-bioluminescent parents to study bacterial behaviour in a wide variety of environments.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1993/', ['Microbiology', 'Infectious Diseases'], [u'Bioluminescent Superbugs Lab, University of Auckland', u'Department of Molecular Medicine and Pathology, University of Auckland', u'Bioinformatics Institute, School of Biological Sciences, University of Auckland', u'Maurice Wilkins Centre for Molecular Biodiscovery', u'Institute for Molecular Infection Biology, University of W\xfcrzburg', u'Department of Biochemistry, University of Otago']]
