[u'The correlation of climate factors on dengue transmission in urban area: Bangkok and Singapore cases', ['Sittisede Polwiang'], u'2016-07-27', u"The objective of this study is to find the correlation between climate factors and dengue incidence rate in Bangkok and Singapore during 2009-2015. Spearman's rank correlation tests with time-lag are performed to investigate the overall correlation between dengue incidence rates and climate factors , minimum, mean, and maximum temperatures, DTR, and rainfall. A Linear and Poisson regression analysis was performed. Spearman's rank correlation tests show that in Bangkok monthly rainfall (r=0.451, p<0.001), the number of rainy days (r=0.411, p<0.001) are positive correlation with 2 month lag time. DTR (r=-0.335, p<0.001) is negative correlation with 2 month lag time. Maximum (r=0.256, p<0.001), mean (r=0.304, p<0.001) and minimum (r=0.323, p<0.001) temperature are positive correlation with 4 month lag time. In Singapore, only minimum temperature (r=-0.299, p<0.001) with 1 month lag time is negative correlation and DTR (r=-0.289, p<0.001) with zero month lag time is positive correlation. The rest has no statically significance (p>0.05). This study concluded, climate factors play moderate role in dengue incidence in Bangkok. There is no statistical significance between rainfall and dengue incidence rate and temperature play a marginal role in Singapore.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2322/', ['Environmental Sciences', 'Epidemiology', 'Infectious Diseases'], [u'Department  of Mathematics, Faculty of Science, Silpakorn University']]
[u'Angiosperm Phylogeny Poster \u2013 Flowering Plant Systematics', ['Theodor C Cole', 'Hartmut H Hilger'], u'2016-07-27', u'The "Angiosperm Phylogeny Poster \u2013 Flowering Plant Systematics" is an educational tool presenting an overview of the evolutionary relationships among flowering plants according to APG IV and APweb as of 2016. The phylogenetic tree depicts the 63 orders and the majority of the 416 families, listing the main apomorphies and plesiomorphies as well as diagnostic and nondiagnostic anatomical, morphological, and phytochemical features for orders and higher levels within the tree. The intuitive color-coding facilitates memorization and teaching.\nTranslations of the poster by internationally renown botanists are now available in more than a dozen world languages. Hyperlinks to APweb (Peter F. Stevens, Missouri Botanical Garden) are provided for the orders and higher ranks.\nThis is one in a series of three educational posters on the phylogeny of land plants: Poster 1: "Angiosperms", Poster 2: "Tracheophytes: Lycophytes, Ferns, Gymnosperms", Poster 3: "Bryophytes: Liverworts, Mosses, Hornworts".', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2320/', ['Biodiversity', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Plant Science', 'Taxonomy', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Institute of Pharmacy and Molecular Biotechnology, Heidelberg University', u'Institute of Biology, Plant Morphology and Systematics, Freie Universit\xe4t Berlin']]
[u'Meditation and auditory attention: An ERP study of meditators and non-meditators', ['Britta Biedermann', 'Peter de Lissa', 'Yatin Mahajan', 'Vince Polito', 'Nicholas A Badcock', 'Michael H Connors', 'Lena Quinto', 'Linda Larsen', 'Genevieve M McArthur'], u'2016-07-27', u'A recent meta-analysis emphasises that meditation can improve attention in healthy adults (Sedlmeier et al., 2012). The findings of a study by Cahn and Polich (2009) suggests that there is an effect of a meditative state on three event-related potential (ERP) brain markers of low-level auditory attention in expert meditators: the N1, the P2, and the P3a. The current study built on these findings by examining the trait and state effects of meditation on the passive auditory mismatch negativity (MMN), N1, and P2 ERPs. We found that the MMN was significantly larger in meditators than non-meditators regardless of whether they were meditating or not (a trait effect), and that the N1 was significantly attenuated during meditation in non-meditators but not meditators (an interaction between trait and state). These outcomes suggest that low-level attention is superior in long-term meditators in general. In contrast, low-level attention is reduced in non-meditators when they are asked to meditate for the first time, possibly due to cognitive overload.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2318/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'School of Psychology and Speech Pathology, Curtin University of Technology', u'Cognitive Science, Macquarie University', u'ARC Centre of Excellence in Cognition and its Disorders, Macquarie University', u'ARC Centre of Excellence in Cognition and its Disorders, Macquarie University', u'MARCS Institute for Brain, Behaviour and Development, University of Western Sydney', u'Department of Cognitive Science, Macquarie University']]
[u'Live cell imaging of Salmonella Typhimurium interaction with zebrafish larvae after injection and immersion delivery methods', ['Macarena A Varas', 'Alonso Farina', 'Francisco Diaz-Pascual', 'Javiera Ortiz-Severin', 'Andres E Marcoleta', 'Miguel L Allende', 'Carlos A Santiviago', 'Francisco P Chavez'], u'2016-07-27', u'Surrogate host models have been employed to study bacterial virulence mechanisms of important human pathogens. Particularly, zebrafish (Danio rerio) has been used to determine the role of vertebrate innate immunity during bacterial infections. The easy-to-obtain large number of embryos and optical transparency of larvae allow live cell imaging of the infection progress and the major cellular types of the innate immune system that develop during the first days of embryogenesis. In zebrafish model, microinjecting bacteria into embryos and/or larvae can cause infection. Alternatively, an infection can be generated by static immersion of larvae on a microbial suspension. Both methods differ in the mode and time of infection, inoculum size and host response. In this work, we compare the in vivo immune response induced by Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium (S. Typhimurium) inoculated by immersion and microinjection in zebrafish larvae. To this end, an immersion protocol using transgenic zebrafish larvae was developed for in vivo monitoring of GFP-tagged S. Typhimurium infection progress and immune response during 72 h. The infection progress was compared to that of zebrafish larvae inoculated by microinjection. Our results in zebrafish corroborate previous Salmonella virulence studies in murine models and reveal that host-pathogen interaction not only depends on the virulence of the strain, but also on the inoculation method and host conditions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2319/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Microbiology', 'Infectious Diseases'], [u'Laboratorio de Microbiolog\xeda de Sistemas, Departamento de Biolog\xeda, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de Chile', u'Department of Biology, Universidad de Chile', u'Laboratorio de Biolog\xeda Estructural y Molecular, Universidad de Chile', u'Centro FONDAP de Regulaci\xf3n del Genoma, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de Chile', u'Laboratorio de Microbiolog\xeda, Departamento de Bioqu\xedmica y Biolog\xeda Molecular, Facultad de Ciencias Qu\xedmicas y Farmac\xe9uticas, Universidad de Chile']]
[u'Microscale insight into microbial seed banks', ['Kenneth J Locey', 'Melany C Fisk', 'Jay T Lennon'], u'2016-07-27', u'Dormancy is a general microbial life-history trait that leads to the emergence of seed banks across diverse ecosystems. While the primary forces driving seed banks include macroscale factors like resource supply, the importance of microscale factors such as individual encounters with resource molecules are often overlooked. Here, we used >10,000 individual based models (IBMs) to simulate energetic, physiological, and ecological processes across combinations of resource-, spatial-, and trophic-complexity. We found that increasing rates of encounter of individual organisms with resource molecules led to greater abundance, greater productivity, and larger seed banks. We also found that the chemical complexity of resource molecules reduced encounter rates, which led to increased variability in the size of seed banks. Encounter-driven \u2018boom and bust\u2019 dynamics also caused resource-rich environments to simultaneously host large seed banks and serve as hotbeds of microbial activity. In conclusion, microscale phenomena appear to be essential for understanding the emergence of seed banks, the energetic basis of microbial life history trade-offs, and variation in the abundance and activity of microbial communities.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2321/', ['Computational Biology', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Biology, Indiana University', u'Department of Biology, Miami University of Ohio']]
[u'Seqenv: linking sequences to environments through text mining', ['Lucas Sinclair', 'Umer Z Ijaz', 'Lars Jensen', 'Marco JL Coolen', 'Cecile Gubry-Rangin', 'Alica Chronakova', 'Anastasis Oulas', 'Christina Pavloudi', 'Julia Schnetzer', 'Aaron Weimann', 'Ali Ijaz', 'Alexander Eiler', 'Christopher Quince', 'Evangelos Pafilis'], u'2016-07-26', u'Understanding the distribution of taxa and associated traits across different environments is one of the central questions in microbial ecology. High-throughput sequencing (HTS) studies are presently generating huge volumes of data to address this biogeographical topic. However, these studies are often focused on specific environment types or processes leading to the production of individual, unconnected datasets. The large amounts of legacy sequence data with associated metadata that exist can be harnessed to better place the genetic information found in these surveys into a wider environmental context. Here we introduce a software program, seqenv, to carry out precisely such a task. It automatically performs similarity searches of short sequences against the "nt" nucleotide database provided by NCBI and, out of every hit, extracts \u2013 if it is available \u2013 the textual metadata field. After collecting all the isolation sources from all the search results, we run a text mining algorithm to identify and parse words that are associated with the Environmental Ontology (EnvO) controlled vocabulary. This, in turn, enables us to determine both in which environments individual sequences or taxa have previously been observed and, by weighted summation of those results, to summarize complete samples. We present two demonstrative applications of seqenv to a survey of ammonia oxidizing archaea as well as to a plankton paleome dataset from the Black Sea. These demonstrate the ability of the tool to reveal novel patterns in HTS and its utility in the fields of environmental source tracking, paleontology, and studies of microbial biogeography. To install, go to: https://github.com/xapple/seqenv', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2317/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Ecology and Genetics, Limnology, Uppsala Universitet', u'Environmental bioinformatics consultants, Envonautics Ltd.', u'Infrastructure and Environment Research Division, School of Engineering, University of Glasgow', u'The Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Protein Research, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen', u'Western Australia Organic and Isotope Geochemistry Centre (WA-OIGC), Department of Chemistry, Curtin University of Technology', u'Institute of Biological & Environmental Sciences, University of Aberdeen', u'Institute of Soil Biology, Biology Centre, Czech Academy of Sciences', u'Institute of Marine Biology Biotechnology and Aquaculture (IMBBC), Hellenic Centre for Marine Research', u'Bioinformatics Group, The Cyprus Institute of Neurology and Genetics', u'Institute of Marine Biology Biotechnology and Aquaculture, Hellenic Centre for Marine Research', u'Department of Molecular Ecology, Microbial Genomics and Bioinformatics Group, Max Planck Institute for Marine Microbiology', u'Computational Biology of Infection Research, Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research', u'Hawkesbury Institute for the Environment, University of Western Sydney, Hawkesbury', u'Environmental bioinformatics consultants, Envonautics Ltd.', u'Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick', u'Institute of Marine Biology Biotechnology and Aquaculture (IMBBC), Hellenic Centre for Marine Research (HCMR)']]
