[u'Doubts concerning the analysis of data collected in areas surrounding badger culled areas of the RBCT', ['David Hendy'], u'2016-08-19', u'In a report issued to the UK government in 2007 on the Randomised Badger Culling Trial (RBCT), it was stated that the incidence of bovine tuberculosis (TB) in cattle increased in areas surrounding where badgers were removed. It is known that badger culling perturbs badgers and this leads to increased TB transmission in and around these treated areas. The increase in TB in the surrounding areas was attributed to this process.\nIn this study of the RBCT analysis it was found that large TB increases in areas surrounding proactively treated areas depended heavily on adjustments made for pre-cull history. This work looks at the basis for applying these adjustments. Since it is not possible to remove statistical error in the data, which confidence intervals suggest may have been large, it is argued that it was unsafe to apply these adjustments. As such it is argued that TB increases due to perturbation in the report presented to the UK government in 2007 may have been grossly over-estimated.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2376/', ['Epidemiology', 'Infectious Diseases', 'Statistics'], [u'No affiliation']]
[u'White discoloration on leaves and flower-like outgrowth on stem: A new species or hormonal disequilibrium?', ['Wenfa Ng'], u'2016-08-19', u'Strange patterns of white discoloration on leaves as well as unusual outgrowth that resembles arrested generation of new branches on stem were observed on a plant in Singapore. The white discoloration patterns were random in size and shape but radiated from the veins of the leaf, with a higher concentration in the center and no discoloration in the outer regions. Possible explanations for the coloration pattern on the leaves include: (i) a new species, and more serious (ii) a plant disease of a hormonal nature or mediated by microbe pathogenesis or both. Observations of the plant stem revealed that the length of the stem is of regular segments, with each section punctuated by a ring-like structure. However, an evident flower-like (or, from a different perspective, rose-like) outgrowth in the middle of one section suggested that it is a sprout point for the development of a new branch. But the development was halted in unexplained ways, leaving behind an arrested ring. Though the above may be part of normal development, it could also be signs that the plant is under significant environment stress such as high temperature or manifesting the effects of uptake of toxins, which impacts on equilibrium of hormones in the plant. Most puzzling, the outgrowth that likely will form the basis of a new branch appeared in a lower segment of the stem without branches \u2013 which pointed tantalizingly to a hormonal disequilibrium cause. Collectively, the plant mentioned above was likely to be in distress in two scenarios. Specifically, (i) as a new plant species with a different leaf coloration pattern (white round patches on green background) but suffering from a hormonal disease manifesting as outgrowth in the stem, or (ii) a leaf discoloration pattern due to microbe infestation of the xylem in the leaf that led to reduced chlorophyll production in areas of microbe growth together with a systemic hormonal disequilibrium that result, through unknown mechanisms, in flower-like outgrowth in areas of stems not associated with sprouting of branches. Written as a rapid communication to inform the scientific community of a possible new plant species or an early indication of a plant disease likely to be hormonal disequilibrium that impacts on development of a mature plant, interested researchers may explore further the initial observations reported in this short note.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2375/', ['Biochemistry', 'Ecology', 'Microbiology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Soil Science'], [u'Novena']]
[u'Correlation between predictability index and the error performance of customer baseline load (CBL) calculation', ['Saeed Mohajeryami', 'Valentina Cecchi'], u'2016-08-18', u"This paper attempts to explore the correlation between the content of high frequency component of customers' historical consumption data (measured by a proposed index called predictability index) and the accuracy of Customer Baseline Load (CBL) calculation methods. In this paper, the customer's consumption signal is transformed from time-domain to frequency domain to separate the high and low frequency components of the consumption signal. Then, after reconstructing the time-domain equivalent of both of these signals, the predictability index for all customers are calculated. The data employed by this study belong to Australian Energy Market Operation (AEMO), and is the hourly consumption of 189 customers for the time span of a year (2012). This index is proposed to be used for the purpose of clustering the customers into different bins by K-means clustering algorithm. Then the CBL for customers of each bin is calculated by two methods of CAISO and Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT), and then the average error in each bin is computed. Afterwards, the correlation between the average P_index of each bin, and its normalized average error is calculated. It is found that there is a strong correlation between the P_index and the error performance of the CBL calculation methods.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2374/', ['Adaptive and Self-Organizing Systems', 'Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Data Science'], [u'Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of North Carolina at    Charlotte']]
[u'Stopping duplicate bug reports before they start with Continuous Querying for bug reports', ['Abram Hindle'], u'2016-08-18', u'Bug deduplication is a hot topic in software engineering information retrieval research, but it is often not deployed. Typically to de-duplicate bug reports developers rely upon the search capabilities of the bug report software they employ, such as Bugzilla, Jira, or Github Issues. These search capabilities range from simple SQL string search to IR-based word indexing methods employed by search engines. Yet too often these searches do very little to stop the creation of duplicate bug reports. Some bug trackers have more than 10\\% of their bug reports marked as duplicate. Perhaps these bug tracker search engines are not enough? In this paper we propose a method of attempting to prevent duplicate bug reports before they start: continuous querying. That is as the bug reporter types in their bug report their text is used to query the bug database to find duplicate or related bug reports. This continuous querying allows the reporter to be alerted to duplicate bug reports as they report the bug, rather than formulating queries to find the duplicate bug report. Thus this work ushers in a new way of evaluating bug report deduplication techniques, as well as a new kind of bug deduplication task. We show that simple IR measures show some promise for addressing this problem but also that further research is needed to refine this novel process that is integrate-able into modern bug report systems.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2373/', ['Software Engineering'], [u'Department of Computing Science, University of Alberta']]
[u'Transcriptomic response of maize primary roots to low temperatures at seedling emergence', ['Mauro Di Fenza', 'Bridget Hogg', 'Jim Grant', 'Susanne Barth'], u'2016-08-18', u'Background.  Maize (Zea mays) is C 4  tropical cereal and its adaptation to temperate climates can be problematic due to low soil temperatures at early stages of establishment. Methods. We report on a physiological and transcriptomic experiment on twelve maize varieties from a chilling condition adapted gene pool which identified four genotypes with significant contrasting chilling tolerance.These four varieties were subject to microarray analysis to identify up and down regulated genes under chilling conditions. Results. Stress induced by low temperature in the varieties Picker,PR39B29, Fergus and Codisco was reflected only in the expression profiles of the varieties Picker and PR39B29. No significant changes in expression were observed in Fergus and Codisco upon chilling stress. The overall number of genes up and down regulated in the two chilling tolerant varieties amounted to69. These two varieties exhibited two different trancriptomic patterns in which only four genes were shared, although not all with the same degree of regulation. Overall the expression pattern was similar between the two chilling tolerant varieties, indicating a common response to chilling stress. Discussion. Varieties with an enhanced root/shoot growth ratio under low temperature were more tolerant which could be an early and inexpensive measure for germ plasm screening. We have identified novel cold inducible genes in an already adapted maize breeding gene pool. This illustrates that further varietal selection for enhanced chilling tolerance is possible in an already preselected gene pool.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2372/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Plant Science'], [u'College of Life Sciences, School of Biology and Environmental Sciences, University College Dublin', u'Teagasc Research Operations Group, Statistics and Applied Physics Department, Teagasc', u'Crops Research Centre Oak Park, Crops, Enviornment and Land Use Programme, Teagasc']]
[u'Quantitative analysis of rat adipose tissue cell recovery, and non-fat cell volume, in primary cell cultures', ['Floriana Rotondo', 'Maria del Mar Romero', 'Ana Cecilia Ho-Palma', 'Xavier Remesar', 'Jose Antonio Fernandez-Lopez', 'Maria Alemany'], u'2016-08-18', u'Background. White adipose tissue (WAT) is a complex, disperse, multifunctional organ which contains adipocytes, and a large proportion of fat, but also other cell types, active in defence, regeneration and signalling functions. Studies with adipocytes often require their isolation from WAT breaking up the matrix collagen fibres, but primary cultures of these cells could not be easily correlated to intact WAT, since often recovery and viability are unknown. Experimental design. Epididymal WAT of 4-6 young adult rats was used to isolate adipocytes with collagenase. Careful recording of lipid content of tissue, and all fraction volumes and weights, allowed us to trace the amount of initial WAT fat remaining in the cell preparation. Functionality was estimated by incubation with glucose and measurement of lactate production. Non-adipocyte cells were also recovered and their sizes (and those of adipocytes) were also measured. The presence of non-nucleated cells (erythrocytes) was also estimated. Results. Cell numbers and sizes were correlated from all fractions to intact WAT. Tracing the lipid content, the recovery of adipocytes in the final, metabolically active, preparation was in the range of 70-75%. Adipocytes were 7%, erythrocytes 68% and other stromal (nucleated cells) 24% of total WAT cells. However, their overall volumes were, 91%, 0.05%, and 0.2% of WAT. Non-fat volume of adipocytes was 2.5% of WAT. Conclusions. The methodology presented here allows for a direct quantitative reference to the original tissue of studies using isolated cells. We have found, also, that the "live cell mass" of adipose tissue is very small (about 25 \xb5L/g for adipocytes and 2 \xb5L/g stromal, plus about 1 \xb5L/g blood). This fact, translates into an extremely high (with respect to the actual "live cytoplasm" size) metabolic activity, which make WAT an even more significant agent in the control of energy metabolism.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2371/', ['Cell Biology', 'Metabolic Sciences'], [u'Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biomedicine, University of Barcelona, Faculty of Biology', u'Institute of Biomedicine, University of Barcelona', u'CIBER OBN']]
[u'Regional drivers of clutch loss reveal important trade-offs for beach-nesting birds', ['Brooke Maslo', 'Thomas A Schlacher', 'Mike A. Weston', 'Chantal M Huijbers', 'Chris Anderson', 'Ben L Gilby', 'Andrew L Olds', 'Rod M Connolly', 'David S Schoeman'], u'2016-08-18', u'Coastal birds are critical ecosystem constituents on sandy shores, yet are threatened by depressed reproductive success resulting from direct and indirect anthropogenic and natural pressures. Few studies examine clutch fate across the wide range of environments experienced by birds; instead, most focus at the small site scale. We examine survival of model shorebird clutches as an index of true clutch survival at a regional scale (~ 200 km), encompassing a variety of geomorphologies, predator communities, and human use regimes in southeast Queensland, Australia. Of the 132 model nests deployed and monitored with cameras, 45 (34%) survived the experimental exposure period. Thirty-five (27%) were lost to flooding, 32 (24%) were depredated, 9 (7%) buried by sand, 7 (5%) destroyed by people, 3 (2%) failed by unknown causes, and 1 (0.1%) was destroyed by a dog. Clutch fate differed substantially among regions, particularly with respect to losses from flooding and predation. \u2018Topographic\u2019 exposure was the main driver of mortality of nests placed close to the drift line near the base of dunes, which were lost to waves (particularly during storms) and to a lesser extent depredation. Predators determined the fate of clutches not lost to waves, with the depredation probability largely influenced by region. Depredation probability declined as nests were backed by higher dunes and were placed closer to vegetation. This study emphasizes the scale at which clutch fate and survival varies within a regional context, the prominence of corvids as egg predators, the significant role of flooding as a source of nest loss, and the multiple trade-offs faced by beach-nesting birds and those that manage them.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2370/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Ecology, Evolution and Natural Resources, Rutgers, The State University of    New Jersey', u'School of Science and Engineering, University of the Sunshine Coast', u'Centre for Integrative Ecology, Deakin University', u'Australian Rivers Institute - Coast & Estuaries, and School of Environment, Griffith University']]
[u'Ontogenetic foraging activity and feeding selectivity of the Brazilian endemic parrotfish Scarus zelindae', ['Pedro H Pereira', 'Marcus Santos', 'Daniel L Lippi', 'Pedro Silva'], u'2016-08-18', u"Parrotfish are fundamental species in controlling algae phase-shifts and ensuring the resilience of coral reefs. Nevertheless, little is known on their ecological role in the South-western Atlantic Ocean. The present study analysed the ontogenetic foraging activity and feeding selectivity of the Brazilian endemic parrotfish Scarus zelindae using behavioural observation and benthic composition analyses. We found a significant negative relationship between fish size and feeding rates for S. zelindae individuals. Thus, terminal phase individuals forage with lower feeding rates compared to juveniles and initial phase individuals. The highest relative foraging frequency of S. zelindae was on epilithic algae matrix (EAM) with similar values for juveniles (86.6%), initial phase (88.1%) and terminal phase (88.6%) individuals. The second preferred benthos for juveniles was sponge (11.6%) compared with initial (4.5%) and terminal life phases (1.3%). Different life phases of S. zelindae foraged on different benthos according to their availability. Based on Ivlev's electivity index, juveniles selected EAM and sponge, while initial phase and terminal phase individuals only selected EAM. Our findings demonstrate that the foraging frequency of the endemic parrotfish S. zelindae is reduced according to body size and that there is a slight ontogenetic change in feeding selectivity. Therefore, ecological knowledge of ontogenetic variations on resource use is critical for the remaining parrotfish populations which have been dramatically reduced in the Southwestern Atlantic Ocean.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2369/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Marine Biology, James Cook University', u'Coral reef ecosystem Department, Reef Conservation Project', u'Department of Oceanography, Universidade Federal de Pernambuco', u'Biological Sciences Department, Federal Institute of Education, Science and Technology (IFGoiano)']]
