[u'The HOSPITAL score as a predictor of 30 day readmission in a university affiliated community hospital', ['Robert Robinson'], u'2016-06-01', u'Introduction Hospital readmissions are common, expensive, and a key target of the Medicare Value Based Purchasing (VBP) program. Risk assessment tools have been developed to identify patients at high risk of hospital readmission so they can be targeted for interventions aimed at reducing the rate of readmission. One such tool is the HOSPITAL score that uses 7 readily available clinical variables to predict the risk of readmission within 30 days of discharge. The HOSPITAL score has been internationally validated in large academic medical centers. This study aims to determine if the HOSPITAL score is similarly useful in a moderate sized university affiliated hospital in the midwestern United States. Materials and Methods All adult medical patients discharged from the SIU-SOM Hospitalist service from Memorial Medical Center from October 15, 2015 to March 16, 2016, were studied retrospectively to determine if the HOSPITAL score was a significant predictor of hospital readmission within 30 days. Results During the study period, 998 discharges were recorded for the SIU-SOM Hospitalist service. The analysis includes data for the 963 patients who were discharged alive. Of these patients, 118 (12%) were readmitted to the same hospital within 30 days. The patients who were readmitted were less likely to have a length of stay greater than or equal to 5 days (45% vs. 59%, p = 0.003) but were more likely to have been admitted to the hospital within the last year. A receiver operating characteristic evaluation of the HOSPITAL score for this patient population shows a C statistic of 0.762 (95% CI 0.720 - 0.805), indicating good discrimination for hospital readmission. Kaplan-Meier analysis of 30-day readmission free survival showed a significant (p < 0.001) increase in the risk of readmission in patients with a HOSPITAL score of 5 or more. Discussion This single center retrospective study indicates that the HOSPITAL score has good discriminatory ability to predict hospital readmissions within 30 days for a medical hospitalist service a university-affiliated hospital. This data for all causes of hospital readmission is comparable to the discriminatory ability of the HOSPITAL score in the international validation study (C statistics of 0.72 vs. 0.762) conducted at considerably larger hospitals (975 average beds vs 507 at Memorial Medical Center) for potentially avoidable hospital readmissions. Higher risk patients, identified as having a HOSPITAL score of 5 or more, clearly show an increased risk of hospital readmission within 30 days. Conclusions The internationally validated HOSPITAL score may be a useful tool in moderate sized community hospitals to identify patients at high risk of hospital readmission within 30 days. This easy to use scoring system using readily available data can be used as part of interventional strategies to reduce the rate of hospital readmission.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2093/', ['Evidence Based Medicine', 'Health Policy', 'Internal Medicine'], [u'Department of Internal Medicine, Southern Illinois University School of Medicine']]
[u'Considerations of context and scale when using fecal glucocorticoids to indicate stress in large mammals: a study of wild American plains bison', ['Dustin H Ranglack', 'Lorin A Neuman-Lee', 'Susannah S French', 'Johan T du Toit'], u'2016-06-01', u'Non-invasive measures of the stress response are used to understand the impacts of natural and anthropogenic disturbances on wild animals. They can, however, be challenging to interpret without additional contextual information and specifics of the animals in question. Here, we used fecal samples collected from the Henry Mountains bison herd in Utah to measure the glucocorticoid hormone corticosterone (CORT), which is indicative of stress. We compared site-specific measures of fecal CORT concentration with measures of covariates related to geography (elevation, slope, aspect, distance to roads, distance to water, food quality, habitat type, season), bison physiology (body condition, parasite load, sex), and human activity (traffic volume at multiple time scales, hunting seasons). Our aim was to determine whether an unexpected habitat selection pattern could be a response to human disturbance, and thus whether ecological covariates could explain variations in fecal CORT concentration in free-ranging bison. No meaningful relationships were found for any of the covariates included in the study. At least some of those covariates should be related to the stress state of the herd, but in large and highly mobile species such as bison there is a scale mismatch between the physiological stress response of an animal and the spatiotemporal distribution of fresh feces left on the landscape. We offer our assessment of fecal CORT in bison as a case study demonstrating the utility and complications associated with using fecal indicators of stress in wildlife populations.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2092/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Wildland Resources and Ecology Center, Utah State University', u'Department of Biology, Utah State University', u'Department of Wildland Resources, Utah State University']]
[u'A primer for managing international collaboration and legal compliance in biobank based genomics', ['Tomas Klingstrom', 'Erik Bongcam-Rudloff', 'Jane Reichel'], u'2016-06-01', u'Legal & ethical compliance when sharing biospecimen across borders is a complex topic where few researchers can claim a high degree of competence. Therefore most major research projects now contain a component with dedicated experts on research ethics. But in most jurisdictions researchers still have a legal, as well as moral, duty to ensure that their research adhere to national standards and regulations. This review aim to strengthen the position of researchers by helping them to better understand the complex relationship between national law, the soft law mechanisms whereby these laws are enforced and the critical issue of how international research currently rely diffuse soft law mechanisms to enable collaborative research and the transfer of potentially sensitive information across national borders. By having an at least basic understanding of these topics researchers are better positioned to make autonomous decisions and communicate with experts who possess an in-depth knowledge of the issues described in the article. In such a context it is important for a researcher to understand how laws and ethics interact to enforce the basic concepts such as informed consent and the reporting of planned or incidental findings. But it must also be realized that even if such issues are important, they are not the core topic of interest to most researchers and this review should be seen as a basic primer to collaborating with experts rather than as a replacement for experts.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2091/', ['Genomics', 'Ethical Issues', 'Legal Issues', 'Science and Medical Education', 'Medical Genetics'], [u'SLU-Global Bioinformatics Centre, Department of Animal Breeding and Genetics, Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences', u'Faculty of Law & Centre of Research Ethics & Bioethics, Uppsala Universitet']]
[u'Saccharomyces cerevisiae found in the crop of a Neotropical Drosophila species fly collected in a natural forest remnant \u2013 comments on Hoang, Kopp & Chandler (2015)', ['Marcos R. D. Batista', 'Ana R. O. Santos', 'Rafael D. Chaves', 'Carlos A. Rosa', 'Louis B. Klaczko'], u'2016-06-01', u'Abstract Background. Hoang, Kopp & Chandler (2015) questioned the use of commercial Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a model for investigating Drosophila \u2013 yeast association, since this approach \u201cmay not be fully representative of host-microbe interactions as they operate in nature\u201d. They also claimed: \u201cS. cerevisiae is rarely found with natural populations of D. melanogaster or other Drosophila species\u201d. Indeed, previous choice experiments found that Sophophora subgenus flies (including invasive species D. melanogaster) are more attracted to banana baits inoculated with apiculate yeasts such as Hanseniaspora  uvarum over S. cerevisiae inoculated baits. Yet, the forest interior dwelling species (FIDS) D. tripunctata group flies choose preferentially S. cerevisiae inoculated baits over H. uvarum in a natural forest environment. Aim and Methods. Our objective was to carry out a pilot experiment to examine yeast species associated with Drosophila in a natural Atlantic Rainforest fragment, especially examining, the yeast found with FIDS of the D. tripunctata group. We sampled Drosophila in a natural population from a Neotropical forest fragment. Males were dissected for isolating yeast colonies from their crops and to use their genitalia for species identification. Yeast species were identified by sequencing the D1/D2 domains of the 26S rRNA gene. Results and Conclusion. We isolated five yeast species from crops of Drosophila species of tripunctata group, including one strain of S. cerevisiae (from D. paraguayensis), confirming a previous record of S.  cerevisiae isolates from a few tripunctata group species. Thus, their contention that \u201cthe results from D. melanogaster\u2013S. cerevisiae laboratory experiments may not be fully representative of host\u2013microbe interactions in nature\u201d is probably right, but because D. melanogaster is an invasive species that is preferentially attracted in forests to apiculate yeasts, yet S. cerevisiae may be associated with FIDS Drosophila such as D. paraguayensis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2090/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Depto. de Gen\xe9tica, Evolu\xe7\xe3o e Bioagentes, Inst. de Biologia, Universidade Estadual de Campinas - Unicamp', u'Departamento de Microbiologia, Inst. de Ci\xeancias Biol\xf3gicas, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais', u'Depto. de Ci\xeancia de Alimentos, Faculdade de Engenharia de Alimentos, Universidade Estadual de Campinas - Unicamp']]
