[u'A probabilistic model to recover genomes in shotgun metagenomics', ['Johannes Droge', 'Alexander Schoenhuth', 'Alice C McHardy'], u'2016-12-07', u'Shotgun metagenomics of microbial communities reveals information about strains of relevance for applications in medicine, biotechnology and ecology. Recovering their genomes is a crucial, but very challenging step, due to the complexity of the underlying biological system and technical factors. Microbial communities are heterogeneous, with oftentimes hundreds of present genomes deriving from different species or strains, all at varying abundances and with different degrees of similarity to each other and reference data. We present a versatile probabilistic model for genome recovery and analysis, which aggregates three types of information that are commonly used for genome recovery from metagenomes. As potential applications we showcase metagenome contig classification, genome sample enrichment and genome bin comparisons. The open source implementation MGLEX is available via the Python Package Index and on GitHub and can be embedded into metagenome analysis workflows and programs.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2626/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Data Science'], [u'Computational Biology of Infection Research, Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research', u'Centrum Wiskunde & Informatica']]
[u'Reptile diversity and community composition in the Puyango dry forest', ['Acosta Vasconez Ana', 'Cisneros-Heredia Diego'], u'2016-12-07', u'Reptiles are key animals in vertebrate communities in most ecosystems. However, there is little information on their diversity and abundance in dry forests of Ecuador. Between 2013 and 2014 we studied the reptile diversity and natural history of the Puyango Protected Forest, on the border between the province of Loja and El Oro, Ecuador. This area protects relicts of dry deciduous forest in hills and patches of semi-deciduous forest around ravines. We used belt transects in three different streams and irregular band transects in trails, together with pitfall traps, funnel traps, and litter quadrants. The richness of the Puyango Protected Forest represents a small percentage of the Ecuadorian reptile diversity, but covers much of the representative phylogenetic groups of tropical dry forests of the world. Sampling was effective to determine saurian diversity, but more sampling is needed to estimate snake diversity. Evidence of the presence of 21 species, divided into 10 families, was obtained; of which 14 are snakes (including a potential new species of the genus Epictia) and seven are lizards. Natural history is described for each species, including time and space use, and their conservation status is analyzed. The reptile community is characterized by a relative homogeneity over the vegetation remnants and the highest abundances correspond to saurian species.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2625/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology'], [u'COCIBA, Universidad San Francisco de Quito']]
