[u'Feasibility of using dried plant specimens for DNA barcoding. A case study of the Juncaceae', ['Danka Do', 'Lenka Zaveska Drabkova'], u'2016-07-15', u'Background. Phylogenetic and barcoding studies usually employ fresh parts of plants as the source of DNA. Successful DNA amplification has been achieved in such investigations for different regions. However, there is need for the utilization of dried samples, due to frequent inaccessibility of fresh precious plants or their parts for genetic analyses or barcoding studies. Difficulties in obtaining amplifiable DNA have appeared as one of the major pitfalls that resulted in slowdown of the use of herbarium specimens for DNA analyses. Methods. Recent study highlights the crucial issues that are being faced by comparison of herbarium and fresh plants for barcoding purposes. We analyzed the performance of samples from herbarium specimens of different age and fresh plants in PCR reaction and sequencing of seven regions (cpDNA: rbcL, rpoC1, trnL-F intergenic spacer, trnL intron, psbA-trnH, mtDNA: atp1 and nrDNA: ITS1-5.8S-ITS2) with a combination of twenty-eight primers. Conclusions. We show that herbarium specimens may be successfully applied both for phylogenetic as well as for barcoding purposes. In comparison with fresh samples, working with dried herbarium specimens is more complicated, but may lead to amplification and sequencing success in almost all cases when appropriate internal primers are designed or optimization methods are used. Both attempts are useful for this aim: using the set of universal primers recommended by CBOL and design specific primers for a particular group of interest. We found limited detrimental effect of specimen age and length of the amplicon on the amplification success in most of the tested regions in the Juncaceae.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2293/', ['Genomics', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of taxonomy, Institute of Botany Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic', u'Laboratory of pollen biology, Institute of Experimental Botany Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic']]
[u'Cockatiel (Nymphicus hollandicus) gut microbiomes, bacterial inhabitants of a worldwide distributed pet', ['Luis David Alcaraz', 'Apolinar M. Hernandez', 'Mariana Peimbert'], u'2016-07-15', u'Background. Cockatiels (Nymphicus hollandicus) were originally endemic to Australia, but they are nowadays popular worldwide pet birds. It is now possible to make detailed molecular studies on cultivable and uncultivable bacteria that are part of the intestinal microbiome of healthy animals, these studies showed that bacteria are an essential part of the capacity and metabolic status of animals. There are few studies of bird microbiomes and to date this is the first reported cockatiel microbiome work. Methods. In this paper we analyzed the gut microbiome of 3 healthy adult cockatiel birds by massive sequencing of 16S ribosomal gene. Additionally, we show a comparison with other poultry, and wild birds microbiomes and their taxa profiles Results. The vast majority of the Cockatiel\u2019s bacteria found were Firmicutes, while Proteobacteria and Bacteroidetes are poorly represented. 19,280 different OTUs were detected, of which 8,072 belong to the Erysipelotrichaceae family. Discussion. Cockatiels wide geographic distribution, and close human contact makes relevant to study their microbiomes, this study gives a baseline for their bacterial diversity. Cockatiels microbiomes diversity are dominated by Firmicutes of the Erysipelotrichaceae family. Cockatiels, and other wild birds are almost depleted of Bacteroidetes which happen to be abundant in poultry birds and this is probably related with the intensive human manipulation of poultry bird diets. Some pathogenic bacteria like Clostridium colinum, and Serratia marcescens are inhabitants of the cockatiel\u2019s microbiome while other pathogens are not elements of healthy cockatiel\u2019s microbiota, although the specimens collected were perfectly healthy at the time.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2292/', ['Biodiversity', 'Microbiology', 'Veterinary Medicine'], [u'Laboratorio Nacional de Ciencias de la Sostenibilidad, Instituto de Ecolog\xeda. Universidad Nacional Auton\xf3ma de M\xe9xico', u'Departamento de Ciencias Naturales. Unidad Cuajimalpa, Universidad Aut\xf3noma Metropolitana']]
