[u'Elementary cellular automata as conditional Boolean formul\xe6', ['Trace Fleeman y Garcia'], u'2016-10-24', u'I show that any elementary cellular automata -- a class of 1-dimensional, 2-state cellular automata originally formulated by Stephen Wolfram -- can be deconstructed into a set of two Boolean operators; I also present a conjecture concerning the relationship between the set of computationally complete elementary cellular automata rules (such as rule 110, shown in section 2 to be composed of a NAND gate) and the set of elementary cellular automata rules that contain universal Boolean operators (such as rule 52, shown in section 3.1 to contain a universal Boolean operator yet has not been shown as of 2016 to be computationally complete.)', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2553/', ['Theory and Formal Methods'], [u'Independent Researcher']]
[u'Eurasian jays do not copy the choices of conspecifics, but they do show evidence of stimulus enhancement', ['Rachael Miller', 'Corina J Logan', 'Katherine Lister', 'Nicola S Clayton'], u'2016-10-24', u'Corvids (birds in the crow family) are hypothesised to have a general cognitive tool-kit because they show a wide range of transferrable skills across social, physical and temporal tasks, despite differences in socioecology. However, it is unknown whether relatively asocial corvids differ from social corvids in their use of social information in the context of copying the choices of others, because only one such test has been conducted in a relatively asocial corvid. We investigated whether relatively asocial Eurasian jays (Garrulus glandarius) use social information (i.e., information made available by others). Previous studies have indicated that jays attend to social context in their caching and mate provisioning behaviour; however, it is unknown whether jays copy the choices of others. We tested the jays in two different tasks varying in difficulty, where social corvid species have demonstrated social information use in both tasks. Firstly, an object-dropping task was conducted requiring objects to be dropped down a tube to release a food reward from a collapsible platform, which corvids can learn through explicit training. Only one rook and one New Caledonian crow have learned the task using social information from a demonstrator. Secondly, we tested the birds on a simple colour discrimination task, which should be easy to solve, because it has been shown that corvids can make colour discriminations. Using the same colour discrimination task in a previous study, all common ravens and carrion crows copied the demonstrator. After observing a conspecific demonstrator, none of the jays solved the object-dropping task, though all jays were subsequently able to learn to solve the task in a non-social situation through explicit training, and jays chose the demonstrated colour at chance levels. Our results suggest that social and relatively asocial corvids differ in social information use, indicating that relatively asocial species may have secondarily lost this ability due to lack of selection pressure from an asocial environment.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2552/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge', u'Department of Zoology, University of Cambridge']]
[u'Daggers, swords, scythes and sickles: Pachycormid fins as ecological predictors', ['Jeff Liston', 'Anthony Maltese'], u'2016-10-24', u"Pachycormids occupy a key position within Actinopterygii, as part of the Holostei- Teleostei Transition, although their precise position in this hierarchy has been fought over for some years. Discoveries in the last three years have expanded our global knowledge of the diversity, distribution and success of this group, continuing the recent 'Pachycormid Renaissance'. However, clarity over the definitions of pachycormid taxa has been undermined by the number of type specimens destroyed during World War II, introducing a need for neotype material to be identified (e.g. Asthenocormus titanius, Hypsocormus macrodon), and comparative work has revealed how poorly constrained a number of historical genera are, particularly those of the Toarcian (Early Jurassic) Holzmaden shale fauna that were the foundation of Arthur Smith Woodward's family Pachycormidae in 1895. These historical problems with descriptions and material have undermined confidence in recent phylogenetic analyses. The characteristic unusually long pectoral fins appear to have developed in conjunction with otherwise reduced skeletal ossification to counteract buoyancy problems in a group lacking a gas bladder. A sample of over 90 specimens from 16 recognised pachycormid genera was assessed, demonstrating that the ubiquitously stated 'scythe'-like pectoral fin is not a pachycormid synapomorphy: three clear and distinct pectoral fin structural morphotypes emerged, reflecting a diversity of pachycormid lifestyles that changed throughout the Mesozoic, from agile pursuit predator to slow-cruising suspension feeder. Those morphotypes closely mirror modern fuel-saving wingtip designs from today's aerodynamicists, converging on similar solutions to these enigmatic and fascinating fish some 160 million years later.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2550/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Marine Biology', 'Paleontology', 'Zoology'], [u'Natural Sciences, National Museums Scotland', u'Yunnan Key Laboratory of Palaeobiology, Yunnan University', u'RMDRC, Rocky Mountain Dinosaur Resource Center']]
[u'Validation of the Actibelt\xae speed measurement in patients with dizziness and vertigo', ['Valentin Rampmaier', 'Fabian Schenkel', 'Martin Daumer', 'Roman Schniepp'], u'2016-10-21', u'Walking velocity is an important control variable in gait disorders due to sensory or cerebellar disfunction. Non-preferred walking speeds are closely linked to a higher risk of falls. A compensation strategy of patients to avoid these speed sectors can be assumed. So far speed measurements are only possible in a laboratory environment. Actibelt\xae is a promising tool that allows speed estimation based on accelerometer data. The used algorithms have not been validated for patients with sensory or cerebellar disorders.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2545/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Anatomy and Physiology', 'Neurology'], [u'Deutsches Schwindel- und Gleichgewichtszentrum, DSGZ LMU M\xfcnchen, Campus Gro\xdfhadern, LMU', u'Sylvia Lawry Centre e.V. \u2013 The Human Motion Institute']]
