[u'Standard codon substitution models overestimate purifying selection for non-stationary data', ['Benjamin D Kaehler', 'Von Bing Yap', 'Gavin A Huttley'], u'2016-07-02', u'Estimation of natural selection on protein-coding sequences is a key comparative genomics approach for de novo prediction of lineage specific adaptations. Selective pressure is measured on a per-gene basis by comparing the rate of non-synonymous substitutions to the rate of neutral evolution, typically assumed to be the rate of synonymous substitutions. All published codon substitution models have been time-reversible and thus assume that sequence composition does not change over time. We previously demonstrated that if time-reversible DNA substitution models are applied blindly in the presence of changing sequence composition, the number of substitutions is systematically biased towards overestimation. We extend these findings to the case of codon substitution models and further demonstrate that the ratio of non-synonymous to synonymous rates of substitution tends to be underestimated over three data sets of insects, mammals, and vertebrates. Our basis for comparison is a non-stationary codon substitution model that allows sequence composition to change. Model selection and model fit results demonstrate that our new model tends to fit the data better. Direct measurement of non-stationarity shows that bias in estimates of natural selection and genetic distance increases with the degree of violation of the stationarity assumption. Additionally, inferences drawn under time-reversible models are systematically affected by compositional divergence. As genomic sequences accumulate at an accelerating rate, the importance of accurate de novo estimation of natural selection increases. Our results establish that our new model provides a more robust perspective on this fundamental quantity.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2218/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Statistics'], [u'Research School of Biology, Australian National University', u'Department of Statistics and Applied Probability, National University of Singapore']]
[u'Investigating the opening mechanism of topoisomerase I B in complex with DNA by means of metadynamics', ['Blasco Morozzo della Rocca', 'Andrea Coletta', 'Federico Iacovelli', 'Alessandro Desideri'], u'2016-07-02', u'Motivations: Topoisomerases play a central role in DNA homeostasis and act on them through a catalytic cycle that comprises the opening of the protein clamp to embrace the DNA (at the beginning of the cycle) and opening to allow the release of the topologically relaxed substrate. Protein opening is hard to follow experimentally thus computational techniques are very handy in dealing with this transitions, although classical molecular dynamics is limited in following big conformational changes and slowly occurring transitions. Therefore we present a well-tempered Metadynamics study of hToP1 clamp opening in presence of a 22-bp long ds-DNA substrate.\nMethods: The protein structure of wild type hTopIB in complex with DNA has been obtained as previously reported. The hTopIB clamp around the DNA molecule has been destabilized by means of metadynamics using Gromacs-4.5.5 with the PLUMEDv1.3 patch. In the simulation, two Collective Variables have been used to describe the clamp opening: the distance between the center of mass of C\u03b1 atoms of the lip1 and of the lip2; and the number of hydrogen bonds between the protein and DNA.Free-energy surface (FES) and the minimum energy path (MEP) connecting different minima were reconstructed using in-house written codes in Python. Salt bridge analysis was conducted via Salt bridges extension of the VMD program and other analyses were performed with the tools of the GROMACS package.\nResults: Results indicate that the lobes of the protein retain their domain structure during the opening that is characterized by an energy barrier of about 50 Kjoul/mole. Furthermore the DNA remains in contact with the Cap lobe, a fact that would enable the protein to perform 1D-diffusion in the DNA strand to enhance the specific activity by reducing the dimensional space it has to search between relaxation events.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2217/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Dipartimento di Biologia, University of Roma "Tor Vergata"', u'Department of Chemistry and Interdisciplinary Nanoscience Center, Aarhus University']]
[u'Matlab code for the Discrete Hankel Transform', ['Ugo Chouinard', 'Natalie Baddour'], u'2016-07-02', u'Previous definitions of a Discrete Hankel Transform (DHT) have focused on methods to approximate the continuous Hankel integral transform without regard for the properties of the DHT itself. Recently, the theory of a Discrete Hankel Transform was proposed that follows the same path as the Discrete Fourier/Continuous Fourier transform. This DHT possesses orthogonality properties which lead to invertibility and also possesses the standard set of discrete shift, modulation, multiplication and convolution rules. The proposed DHT can be used to approximate the continuous forward and inverse Hankel transform. This paper describes the Matlab code developed for the numerical calculation of this DHT.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2216/', ['Algorithms and Analysis of Algorithms', 'Scientific Computing and Simulation', 'Theory and Formal Methods'], [u'Mechanical Engineering, Polytechnic School of Montreal', u'Mechanical Engineering, University of Ottawa']]
[u'XTENS: a neuroblastoma copy number variation repository at the BIT-Gaslini biobank', ['Massimiliano Izzo', 'Davide Cangelosi', 'Annalisa Pezzolo', 'Martina Morini', 'Luigi Varesio'], u'2016-07-02', u"Motivation Neuroblastoma is the major paediatric solid tumour. Unfortunately, about 50% of high risk patients are refractory to treatment and die, demanding new prognostic indicators for improving and personalising therapy. Biomarkers discovery depends on mining molecular, biological, and clinical data, thus making integrated biobanks the ideal collectors of this heterogeneous information and the essential structure for this task.The Biobank Integrating Tissue-genomics of Gaslini Institute, Genova, Italy (BIT-Gaslini) has adopted XTENS [1,2], a web-based data management platform to handle the sample management workflow and integrate it with the patients\u2019 clinical records and molecular data. As of December 2015 the biobank collected over 3700 primary samples (2140 tissue and 1600 fluid) and 1650 derivatives (1030 DNA and 620 RNA). Besides sample management information - such as specimens characterisation, aliquot deliveries to external laboratories and/or centres, and quality control reports - XTENS stored clinical and molecular details for over 900 neuroblastoma patients as retrieved from the National Neuroblastoma Registry and 175 microarray profiles from primary tumour tissues. We have decided to test the capability of the platform as a repository for Copy Number Variations (CNVs, gain/amplification and loss of DNA) data obtained from oligonucleotide array-Comparative Genomic Hybridisation (aCGH) analyses routinely executed at Gaslini Institute. aCGH data are essential for patients' assignment to specific treatments' protocols and they are a valuable source of information for mining the biology of neuroblastoma and the identification of new prognostic indicators. Methods To identify CNVs (numerical and segmental chromosomal alterations) in neuroblastoma samples, we used aCGH, that was performed using the Agilent Human Genome CGH microarrays 180K following the manufacturer\u2019s protocol (Agilent Technologies, Santa Clara, California, USA). Slides were scanned using a G2565BA scanner, and analysed using Agilent CGH Analytics software Genomic Workbench 7.0 (Agilent Technologies Inc.) with the statistical algorithm ADM-1 and a sensitivity threshold of 6.0. Probes with a log ratio value greater than 2 were considered as amplified.To automate the CNV upload to XTENS, we have designed a novel page on the website where the operator can upload the aCGH processed files containing all the analysis metadata and the full list of found aberrations (gain and loss analysis of DNA). A Node.js server-side script parses the uploaded file, and stores all the relevant information in the database. The raw data files are then uploaded using the standard XTENS data management interface and are stored on a distributed file system managed by the iRODS data grid middleware, transparently integrated with XTENS through a REST interface. Results As of March 2016, we have ***Abstract truncated at 3,000 characters - the full version is available in the pdf file***", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2215/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Science'], [u'Oxford e-Research Centre, University of Oxford', u'Giannina Gaslini Institute']]
[u'The diversity weighted Living Planet Index: controlling for taxonomic bias in a global biodiversity index', ['Louise McRae', 'Stefanie Deinet', 'Robin Freeman'], u'2016-07-02', u'As threats to species continue to increase, we urgently need precise and unbiased measures of the impact these pressures are having on global biodiversity. Some existing indicators of the status and trends of biodiversity largely rely on publicly available data from the scientific and grey literature, and are therefore prone to biases introduced through overrepresentation of well-studied groups and regions in monitoring schemes. This can give misleading estimates of biodiversity trends. Here, we report on an approach to tackle taxonomic and geographic bias in once such indicator (Living Planet Index) by accounting for the estimated number of species within biogeographical realms, and the relative diversity of species within them. Based on a proportionally weighted index, we estimate a global population decline in vertebrate species between 1970 and 2010 of 55% rather than 22% from an index with no proportional weighting. From this dataset, comprising 10,380 populations of 3,038 species from 2,337 data sources, we also find that freshwater populations have declined by 76%, marine populations by 41%, and terrestrial populations by 39% when using proportional weighting (compared to declines of 45%, 2% and 30% respectively). This not only shows starker declines than previously estimated, but suggests that those species for which we have poorer data coverage may be declining more rapidly.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2214/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Indicators and Assessments Unit, Institute of Zoology']]
[u'IVaCS: an Integrated Variant Calling System', ['Matteo Chiara', 'Giovanni Chillemi', "Mattia D'Antonio", "Paolo D'Onorio De Meo", 'Tiziano Flati', 'Silvia Gioiosa', 'Ernesto Picardi', 'Graziano Pesole', 'Tiziana Castrignano'], u'2016-07-02', u'The reduction in sequencing costs associated with next generation sequencing technologies (NGS) has led to a rapid upsurge in the amount of genome re-sequencing data, paving the way for the advent of personalized genomics and precision medicine. Accurate genotyping is crucial for effective analyses of these data, and in particular for the correct identification of candidate causal mutations in diagnostic screenings. The body of genome resequencing data will likely see exponential growth in the next few years, underlining the need for publicly available, accurate and time-effective bioinformatics systems for data analysis. Ideally, such systems should be easy to use and constantly updated as new genomes and software tools are released.\nHere we present IVaCS, a fully automated, highly accurate system with a web based graphical interface for genotyping and variant annotation. IVaCS offers state of the art tools for variant calling and annotation along with expert made pipelines for the analysis of whole genome sequencing (WGS), whole-exome sequencing (WES) and targeted resequencing (TGS) data, performing all steps from quality trimming to variant annotation.\nThe system is specifically designed to assist users with little or no bioinformatics skills and all the pipelines are available through a user friendly web interface. The final output is provided in the form of a dynamic web page where variants can be selected on the base of user defined hard filters. A comprehensive report containing detailed information and statistics concerning the execution of each step of the pipelines is also generated.\nExtensive tests on publicly available genome resequencing data (Illumina platinum genome NA12878), show that our system recovers a slightly better sensitivity and a higher specificity than the commercial Illumina VCAT 2.0 software. IVaCS is implemented with a modular architecture and each module (quality trimming, reads mapping, variant calling, variant annotation) can be used independently. IVaCS may manage all the major commercial kits for exome sequencing, such as Illumina, Agilent or Nimblegen, along with a comprehensive collection of reference genomes (all the Illumina genomes, including human, mouse and cow, among the others) with corresponding genomic annotations. Finally, the software leverages an ensemble of publicly available resources (e.g., dbSNP, OMIM, COSMIC and ClinVar among others) for the functional annotation of human variants. Advanced users needing more control over the single steps might also request the command-line version of the software which is more flexible and easy to customize. IVaCS has a very active and growing community. The system is under constant development and new reference genomes, databases and bioinformatics tools are added to IvaCS on a regular basis. IVACS is available at: https://bioinformatics.cineca.it/ivacs', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2213/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Genomics', 'Computational Science'], [u'Dipartimento di Bioscienze, Universit\xe0 degli Studi di Milano', u'SCAI, Cineca, Consorzio Interuniversitario di Supercalcolo', u'Istituto di Biomembrane e Bioenergetica, Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche', u'Dipartimento di Bioscienze, Biotecnologie e Biofarmaceutica, Universit\xe0 degli Studi di Bari \u201cA. Moro\u201d', u'Department of Bioscience, Biotechnology and Biopharmaceutics, University of Bari']]
[u'A tool for the comparison of transcript differential expression analysis pipelines', ['Stefano Beretta', 'Yuri Pirola', 'Valeria Ranzani', 'Grazisa Rossetti', 'Raoul Bonnal', 'Raffaella Rizzi', 'Gianluca Della Vedova', 'Massimiliano Pagani', 'Paola Bonizzoni'], u'2016-07-02', u'MOTIVATION\nLong non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) have recently gained interest, especially for their involvement in controlling several cell processes, but a full understanding of their role is lacking. Differential Expression (DE) analysis is one of the most important tasks in the analysis of RNA-seq data, since it potentially points out genes involved in the regulation of the condition under study. However, a classical analysis at gene level may disregard the role of Alternative Splicing (AS) in regulating cell conditions. This is the case, for example, when a given gene is expressed in all the different conditions, but the expressed isoform is significantly diverse in the different conditions (that is an isoform switch). A transcript level analysis may better shed light on this case, especially in studies having as goal, for example, a better understanding of the behavior of lncRNAs in lymphocytes T cells, which are fundamental in studies of specific diseases, such as cancer. After Cufflinks/Cuffdiff, several approaches for DE analysis at isoform/transcript level have been proposed. However, their results are often sensitive to the upstream analysis such as read mapping, transcript reconstruction and quantification, and it is often hard to choose "a priori" the most appropriate combination of tools. This work presents a tool for assisting the user in this choice, and poses the bases for a study devoted to the characterization of lncRNAs and the identification of of isoform switch events. Our tool includes a framework for the description and the execution of a set of DE pipelines over the same input dataset, as well a set of tools for reconciling and comparing the results.\nMETHOD\nWe designed an automated and easily customizable tool which is able to execute a set of existing pipelines for DE analysis at transcript level starting from RNA-seq data. Our method is built upon Snakemake, a workflow management system, with the specific goal of reducing the complexity of creating workflows. This approach guarantees that the experimentation is fully replicable and easy to customize. Each considered pipeline is structured in three steps: (i) transcript assembly, (ii) quantification, and (iii) DE analysis. By default, our tool builds and compares 9 different pipelines, each taking as input the same set of RNA-seq reads, obtained by combining different state-of-the-art methods to perform the transcript assembly (TA step) with different state-of-the-art methods to perform quantification and differential expression analysis (Q+DE step). More precisely, the 9 pipelines are obtained by combining two tools (Cufflinks and StringTie) and a Reference Annotation (Ensembl annotated transcripts) for the TA step, with three tools (Cuffquant+Cuffdiff, StringTie-B+Ballgown and Kallisto+Sleuth) for the Q+DE step.\nAbstract truncated at 3,000 characters - the full version is available in the pdf file', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2212/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Science'], [u'University of Milan - Bicocca', u'DISCo, University of Milan - Bicocca', u'Istituto Nazionale di Genetica Molecolare (NGM)', u'Dipartimento di Informatica, Sistemistica e Comunicazione, Universit\xe0 di Milano-Bicocca']]
[u'YUCCA auxin biosynthetic genes are required for Arabidopsis shade avoidance', ['Patricia Muller-Moule', 'Kazunari Nozue', 'Melissa L Pytlak', 'Christine M Palmer', 'Michael F Covington', 'Andreah D Wallace', 'Stacey L Harmer', 'Julin N Maloof'], u'2016-07-02', u'Plants respond to neighbor shade by increasing stem and petiole elongation. Shade, sensed by phytochrome photoreceptors, causes stabilization of PHYTOCHROME INTERACTING FACTOR (PIF) proteins and subsequent induction of YUCCA auxin biosynthetic genes. To investigate the role of YUCCA genes in shade avoidance we examined auxin signaling kinetics and found that an auxin responsive reporter is rapidly induced within 2 hours of shade exposure. YUCCA2, 5, 8, and 9 are all induced with similar kinetics suggesting that they could act redundantly to control shade-mediated elongation. To test this hypothesis we constructed a yucca2,5,8,9 quadruple mutant and found that the hypocotyl and petiole shade avoidance is completely disrupted. This work shows that YUCCA auxin biosynthetic genes are essential for detectable shade avoidance and that YUCCA genes are important for petiole shade avoidance.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2211/', ['Developmental Biology', 'Genetics', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of Plant Biology, University of California, Davis', u'Natural Sciences Department, Castleton University', u'Amaryllis Nucleics']]
[u'BioPaxCOMP: an efficient system for integrating, compressing, and querying BioPAX', ['Giuseppe Agapito', 'Andrea Greco', 'Mario Cannataro'], u'2016-07-02', u'Abstract truncated at 3,000 characters - the full version is available in the pdf file.\nBiological networks and, in particular, biological pathways are composed of thousands of nodes and edges, posing several challenge regarding analysis and storage. The primary format used to represent pathways data is BioPAX (http://biopax.org.) BioPAX is a standard language that aims to enable integration, exchange, visualization and analysis of biological pathway data. BioPAX is an open and collaborative effort made by the community of researchers, software developers, and institutions and it specifically supports data exchange between pathway data groups. BioPAX is defined in OWL and is represented in the RDF/XML format. OWL (Web Ontology Language) is a W3C standard and is designed for use by applications that need to process the content of information instead of just presenting information to humans. RDF is a standard model for data interchange on the Web. Although OWL allows a standard representation of pathways, since it is based on XML, it is a verbose and redundant language, so the storage of pathways may be very huge, preventing an efficient transmission and sharing of this data. The typical size of a pathway is related to the organism, for example, the size of Homo Sapiens pathways (from Reactome database) is near to 200 MB on disk. Moreover, integrating pathways data coming from different data sources may require GBytes of space. A second problem with pathways is related to the possibility to integrate information coming from different data sources to have updated information in a centralized way. There exist several different databases for pathways data that emphasizes different aspect of the same pathway, thus, it could be useful to integrate and annotate together pathways coming from different databases to obtain a centralized and more informative pathway data. The principal obstacle for integrating, storing and exchanging such data is the extreme size growth when several pathways data are merged together, posing several challenges from the computational and archiving point of view. Pathways data can be easily classified as big data, because they meet all the 5V (Volume, Velocity, Variety, Veracity, Value) characteristics typical of Big Data, thus, the necessity to efficiently integrate and compress pathways data arises. The methodology for pathways data integration is based on the following steps: i) aggregation and validation locally of data coming from several pathway databases, ii) identification and normalization of compounds and reactions identifier and iii) integration. Integration occurs at the level of physical entities, such as proteins and small molecules. This is accomplished by linking interaction and pathway records together if they use the same physical entities (such as from UniProt for proteins) and by adding annotation data from UniProt or GeneOntology.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2210/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, University Magna Graecia of Catanzaro']]
[u'Open Source for Water Management: including capabilities of MODFLOW-OWHM in the FREEWAT GIS modelling environment', ['Iacopo Bosi', 'Rudy Rossetto', 'Massimiliano Cannata', 'Giovanna De Filippis', 'Matteo Ghetta'], u'2016-07-02', u'FREEWAT is an ongoing GIS environment to serve as pre- and post-processor for running simulations of surface-/groundwater interaction, with the possibility to activate several features accounting for the different water stresses. This paper reports the capability related to address water resource management problems, by activating management tools available in the MODFLOW-OWHM code. The latter is integrated in FREEWAT, which appears as composite plugin of the well-know QGIS software (QGIS, 2016). Therefore, all the necessary pre- and post-process procedures can be run effectively within QGIS, also in conjunction with the several tools for GIS analysis already included in QGIS. It turns out a simple and intuitive user interface to manage the simulation of complex problem in which the mutual interaction among surface waters, groundwaters and anthropic water demand/supply terms can be handled. The development phase of such tools is already at an advanced stage, while next work will be focused on producing real-world applications to serve as tutorial for interest Users.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2209/', ['Spatial and Geographic Information Systems', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Tea Sistemi SpA', u"Scuola Superiore Sant'Anna", u'Institute of Earth Sciences, University of Applied Sciences and Arts of Southern Switzerland']]
[u'An integrated multi-level comparison highlights common aspects and specific features between distantly-related species: Tomato and Grapevine', ['Luca Ambrosino', 'Hamed Bostan', 'Valentino Ruggieri', 'Maria Luisa Chiusano'], u'2016-07-02', u'Motivation. Even after years from the first completion of genomes by sequencing, comparative genomics still remains a challenge, also enhanced by the availability of numerous draft genomes with still poor annotation quality. The detection of ortholog genes between different species is a key approach for comparative genomics. For example, ortholog gene detection may support investigations on mechanisms that shaped the organization of the genomes, highlighting on gain or loss of function and on gene annotation. On the other hand, the detection of paralog genes is fundamental for understanding the evolutionary mechanisms that drove gene function innovation and support gene families analyses. Here we report on the gene comparison between two distantly related plants, Solanum lycopersicum (Tomato) (The Tomato Genome Consortium 2012) and Vitis vinifera (Grapevine) (Jaillon et al. 2007), considered as economically important species from asterids and rosids clades, respectively. The strategy was accompanied by integration of multilevel analyses, from domain investigations to expression profiling, to get to the most reliable results and to offer powerful resources, in order to understand different useful aspects of plant evolution and physiology and to dissect traits and molecular aspects that could provide novel tools for agriculture applications and biotechnologies.\nMethods. In order to predict best putative orthologs and paralogs between Tomato and Grapevine, and to overcome possible annotation issues, all-against-all sequence similarity searches between genes, mRNAs and proteins collections of both species were performed. A Bidirectional Best Hit approach was implemented to detect the best orthologs between the two species. Moreover we developed a dedicated algorithm in Python programming language able to define more extended alignments between mRNA sequences. NetworkX package (Hagberg et al. 2008) was used to define networks of paralogs and orthologs. Proteins domain prediction was carried out on the entire Tomato and Grapevine protein collection by using InterProScan program (Jones et al. 2014). The enzyme classification was obtained by sequence similarity searches between Tomato and Grapevine mRNA collections and the entire UniProt reviewed protein collection (UniProt consortium 2015). The metabolic pathways associated to the detected enzymes were identified exploiting the KEGG Database (Kanehisa and Goto 2000). Expression level of three developmental stages of Tomato (2 cm fruit, breaker and mature red) and the corresponding stages of Grapevine (post-setting, veraison, mature berry) was defined on the basis of the iTAG loci (Shearer et al. 2014) and v1 vitis loci, respectively. The expression was normalized by Reads Per Kilobases per Million (RPKM) for each tissue/stage.\nAbstract truncated at 3,000 characters - the full version is available in the pdf file', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2208/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Bioinformatics', 'Genomics'], [u'Dipartimento di Agraria, Universit\xe0 degli Studi di Napoli "Federico II"', u'North Carolina State University']]
[u'Integration of the MODFLOW Lak7 package in the FREEWAT GIS modelling environment', ['Massimiliano Cannata', 'Jakob Neumann', 'Mirko Cardoso', 'Rudy Rossetto', 'Laura Foglia', 'Iacopo Borsi'], u'2016-07-02', u'The MODFLOW Lake Package is integrated into the FREEWAT GIS environment in order to simulate surface water - groundwater interaction using state of the art techniques for numerical simulations, thus allowing the improved consideration of surface water bodies for water resources management. Surface water bodies, both stationary and flowing, can strongly affect groundwater elevations and flow patterns which in turn may affect the qualitative and quantitative state of groundwater resources. With the advancement of numerical simulation techniques and increased model complexity, FREEWAT facilitates the usage of the lake package through existing QGIS tools to edit model layer geometry as well as an intuitive and simple user interface for the specification of constant and time variable lake properties as defined through MODFLOW.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2207/', ['Spatial and Geographic Information Systems', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Dipartimento Ambiente Costruzione e Design - DACD, Scuola Universitaria Professionale della Svizzera Italiana - SUPSI', u"Scuola Superiore Sant'Anna", u'Technische Universit\xe4t Darmstadt', u'Tea Sistemi SpA']]
