[u'What is the best way for developers to learn new software tools? An empirical comparison between a text and a video tutorial', ['Verena Kafer', 'Daniel Kulesz', 'Stefan Wagner'], u'2016-09-02', u'Tutorials for software developers are supposed to help them to adapt to new tools quickly. While in the early days of computing, mostly text tutorials were available, nowadays software developers can choose among a huge number of tutorials for almost any popular software tool. However, almost no research was conducted to understand how text tutorials differ from other tutorials, which tutorial types are preferred and, especially, which tutorial types yield the best learning experience in terms of efficiency and effectiveness.\nTo evaluate these questions, we converted a \u201cproven\u201d video tutorial for a novel software tool into a content-equivalent text tutorial. We then conducted an experiment in three groups where 42 undergraduate students from a software engineering course were commissioned to operate the software tool after using a tutorial: the first group was provided only with the video tutorial, the second group only with the text tutorial and the third group with both.\nSurprisingly, the differences in terms of efficiency are almost negligible: we could observe that participants using only the text tutorial completed the tutorial faster than the participants with the video tutorial. However, the participants using only the video tutorial applied the learned content faster, achieving roughly the same bottom line performance. We also found that if both tutorial types are offered, participants clearly prefer video tutorials for learning new content but text tutorials for looking up \u201cmissed\u201d information. So while it would be ideal if software tool makers would offer both tutorial types, we think that it is more efficient to produce only text tutorials \u2013 provided you manage to motivate developers to use them.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2413/', ['Human-Computer Interaction', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Institute of Software Technology, University of Stuttgart']]
[u'Differential gene expression in blastocysts following pronuclear transfer', ['Edward H Morrow', 'Fiona C Ingleby'], u'2016-09-02', u'Nuclear transfer techniques (a.k.a. mitochondrial replacement therapies) are currently under development to provide a route to eliminating particular instances of mitochondrial disease from the germline. Before these kinds of techniques are implemented clinically it is of primary concern that their safety and efficacy is established. In a recent paper, Hyslop et al (2016) utilized a specific version of pronuclear transfer (PNT) to investigate the consequences for gene expression in the developing embryo, which may indicate whether or not developmental pathways have been perturbed. However, the study was only able to include a small number of blastocysts within each treatment group, although a larger number of single cell expression profiles from each blastocyst were acquired. Using simulated datasets we show that the size and experimental design of this study cannot provide conclusive evidence that expression profiles of manipulated or control samples are indistinguishable from one another due to low power.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2412/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Genomics', 'Evidence Based Medicine', 'Statistics'], [u'School of Life Sciences, University of Sussex']]
[u'Positive effect of dietary lutein and cholesterol on the undirected song activity of an opportunistic breeder', ['Stefania Casagrande', 'Rianne Pinxten', 'Erika Zaid', 'Marcel Eens'], u'2016-09-01', u'Song is a sexually selected trait that is thought to be an honest signal of the health condition of an individual in many bird species. For species that breed opportunistically, the quantity of food may be a determinant of singing activity. However, it is not yet known whether the quality of food plays an important role in this respect. The aim of the present study was to experimentally investigate the role of two calorie-free nutrients (lutein and cholesterol) in determining the expression of a sexually selected behavior (song rate) and other behaviors (locomotor activity, self-maintenance activity, eating and resting) in male zebra finches (Taeniopygia guttata). We predicted that males supplemented with lutein and cholesterol would sing at higher rates than controls because both lutein and cholesterol have important health-related physiological functions in birds and birdsong mirrors individual condition. To control for testosterone secretion that may upregulate birdsong, birds were exposed to a decreasing photoperiod. Our results showed that control males down-regulated testosterone in response to a decreasing photoperiod, while birds treated with lutein or cholesterol maintained a constant singing activity. Both lutein- and cholesterol-supplemented groups sang more than control groups by the end of the experiment, indicating that the quality of food can affect undirected song irrespective of circulating testosterone concentrations. None of the other measured behaviors were affected by the treatment, suggesting that, when individuals have full availability of food, sexually selected song traits are more sensitive to the effect of food quality than other behavioral traits. Overall the results support our prediction that undirected song produced by male zebra finches signals access to high-quality food.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2411/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Evolutionary Physiology Group, Max Planck Institute for Ornithology', u'Department of Biology, Behavioural Ecology and Ecophysiology Group, University of Antwerp', u'Faculty of Social Sciences, Antwerp School of Education, University of Antwerp', u'Department of Zoology, School of Life Sciences, La Trobe University']]
[u'Detecting communicative intent in a computerised test of joint attention', ['Nathan Caruana', 'Genevieve McArthur', 'Alexandra Woolgar', 'Jon Brock'], u'2016-09-01', u'The successful navigation of social interactions depends on a range of cognitive faculties \u2013 including the ability to achieve joint attention with others to share information and experiences. We investigated the influence that intention monitoring processes have on gaze-following response times during joint attention. We employed a virtual reality task in which 16 healthy adults engaged in a collaborative game with a virtual partner to locate a target in a visual array. In the Search task, the virtual partner was programmed to engage in non-communicative gaze shifts in search of the target, establish eye contact, and then display a communicative gaze shift to guide the participant to the target. In the NoSearch task, the virtual partner simply established eye contact and then made a single communicative gaze shift towards the target (i.e., there were no non-communicative gaze shifts in search of the target). Thus, only the Search task required participants to monitor their partner\u2019s communicative intent before responding to joint attention bids. We found that gaze following was significantly slower in the Search task than the NoSearch task. However, the same effect on response times was not observed when participants completed non-social control versions of the Search and NoSearch tasks, in which the avatar\u2019s gaze was replaced by arrow cues. These data demonstrate that the intention monitoring processes involved in differentiating communicative and non-communicative gaze shifts during the Search task had a measureable influence on subsequent joint attention behaviour. The empirical and methodological implications of these findings for the fields of autism and social neuroscience will be discussed.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2410/', ['Neuroscience', 'Cognitive Disorders', 'Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'Department of Cognitive Science, Macquarie University', u'ARC Centre of Excellence in Cognition and its Disorders', u'Perception in Action Research Centre', u'Centre for Atypical Neurodevelopment', u'Department of Psychology, Macquarie University', u'Department of Cognitive Science, Macquarie University']]
[u'VSEARCH: a versatile open source tool for metagenomics', ['Torbjrn  Rognes', 'Tomas Flouri', 'Ben Nichols', 'Christopher Quince', 'Frederic Mahe'], u'2016-09-01', u'Background. VSEARCH is an open source and free of charge multithreaded 64-bit tool for processing metagenomics nucleotide sequence data. It is designed as an alternative to the widely used USEARCH tool (Edgar 2010) for which the source code is not publicly available, algorithm details are only rudimentarily described, and only a memory-confined 32-bit version is freely available for academic use.\nMethods. When searching nucleotide sequences, VSEARCH uses a fast heuristic based on words shared by the query and target sequences in order to quickly identify similar sequences, a similar strategy is probably used in USEARCH. VSEARCH then performs optimal global sequence alignment of the query against potential target sequences, using full dynamic programming instead of the seed-and-extend heuristic used by USEARCH. Pairwise alignments are computed in parallel using vectorisation and multiple threads.\nResults. VSEARCH includes most commands for analysing nucleotide sequences available in USEARCH version 7 and several of those available in USEARCH version 8, including searching (exact or based on global alignment), clustering by similarity (using length pre-sorting, abundance pre-sorting or a user-defined order), chimera detection (reference-based or de novo), dereplication (full length or prefix), pairwise alignment, reverse complementation, sorting, and subsampling. VSEARCH also includes commands for FASTQ file processing, i.e. format detection, filtering, read quality statistics, and merging of paired reads. Furthermore, VSEARCH extends functionality with several new commands and improvements, including shuffling, rereplication, masking of low-complexity sequences with the well-known DUST algorithm, a choice among different similarity definitions, and FASTQ file format conversion. VSEARCH is here shown to be more accurate than USEARCH when performing searching, clustering, chimera detection and subsampling, while on a par with USEARCH for paired-ends read merging. VSEARCH is slower than USEARCH when performing clustering and chimera detection, but significantly faster when performing paired-end reads merging and dereplication. VSEARCH is available at https://github.com/torognes/vsearch under either the BSD 2-clause license or the GNU General Public License version 3.0.\nDiscussion. VSEARCH has been shown to be a fast, accurate and full-fledged alternative to USEARCH. A free and open-source versatile tool for sequence analysis is now available to the metagenomics community.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2409/', ['Biodiversity', 'Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Informatics, University of Oslo', u'Department of Microbiology, Oslo University Hospital', u'Heidelberg Institute for Theoretical Studies', u'Institute for Theoretical Informatics, Karlsruhe Institute of Technology', u'School of Engineering, University of Glasgow', u'Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick', u'Department of Ecology, University of Kaiserslautern', u'UMR LSTM, CIRAD']]
[u'Sometimes noise is beneficial: stream noise informs vocal communication in the little torrent frog', ['Longhui Zhao', 'Jichao Wang', 'Steven E. Brauth', 'Yezhong Tang', 'Jianguo Cui'], u'2016-09-01', u'Many animal species use acoustic signals for social communication including attracting mates, defending resources and assessing risks. Nevertheless, a variety of ambient noise sources often interfere with sound communication and efficient decision making. In the present study we identified an exception to this generalization in a streamside species, the little torrent frog (Amolops torrentis) which communicates in an environment in which stream noise is always present. To show that stream noise can act as a biological signal which reflects the character of the microhabitat of the sender, we performed female phonotaxis experiments using synthetic male advertisement calls. Calls with high dominant frequency exceeding the ambient stream noise band and calls with lower dominant frequency centered at the frequency range of best hearing were used. The signal-noise ratio was varied by adding noise to each kind of call. We found that females prefer calls with high amplitude stream noise added to those with low amplitude stream noise added for both the high and low dominant frequency stimulus pairs; however, the sound of running water had no attractiveness in the absence of calls. These results show that stream noise can function as an information source by enhancing the attractiveness of calls in the torrent frog. Stream noise associates closely with rocks, topographies and vegetation; thus the sound of running water may provide useful information to signal receivers about variations in microhabitats and thereby act on sexual selection under some circumstances. These data therefore contribute to our understanding of how the perception of mate attractiveness in heterogeneous ecological environments can evolve.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2408/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies'], [u'Department of Herpetology, Chengdu Institute of Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences', u'Department of Biology, Hainan Normal University', u'Department of Psychology, University of Maryland at College Park']]
