[u'Ecuadorian Glass Frogs: Current state of knowledge, new research trends and conservation', ['Diego F Cisneros-Heredia', 'Roy W. McDiarmid'], u'2016-06-25', u'Ecuador has the biggest number of amphibian species per unit of area in the world (427 species in 276,840 km2). Glass frogs (Centrolenidae), with 30 species, constitute 7.06 % of the Ecuadorian anurans. However, the current state of knowledge of this family in Ecuador is still very basic. Several species of glass frogs are currently undescribed, confused with previously described taxa, not yet reported from the country but present in local museum collections, not yet discovered in Ecuador, or even described under two different names. The genus Hyalinobatrachium is poorly known in the country (four species), but at least three undescribed taxa are present in the western lowlands of Ecuador. Among the genera Cochranella and Centrolene, at least 6 new species are known from tropical and subtropical areas in western and eastern slopes of the Ecuadorian Andes. Several characters such as the patterns of skin, eye, peritoneum and pericardium color, the prepollical spine, the nuptial pad, and the presence of the bulla are discussed, especially around its taxonomic potential. At least one undescribed taxon from western lowlands of Ecuador is critically endangered, if not extinct. In the last decade, conservative estimates indicate that at least 26 species of Ecuadorian amphibians have declined or gone extinct, two of them belong to the family Centrolenidae. The reasons for this crisis are not clear but have been related to habitat destruction, climate change, and fungal disease such as the chytridiomycosis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2164/', ['Biodiversity', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Colegio de Ciencias Biol\xf3gicas y Ambientales COCIBA, Laboratorio de Zoolog\xeda Terrestre, Universidad San Francisco de Quito', u'USGS Patuxent Wildlife Research Center, Smithsonian Institution, PO Box 37012, National Museum of Natural History, Room 378, MRC 111']]
[u'Notes on some Glass Frogs (Anura: Centrolenidae) from Western Ecuador: Taxonomy, natural history and conservation status, with the description of a new species', ['Diego F Cisneros-Heredia', 'Roy W. McDiarmid'], u'2016-06-25', u'Ecuador has the biggest number of amphibian species per unit of area in the world (425 species in 283,560 km2). In the last decade, conservative estimates indicate that at least 26 species of Ecuadorian amphibians have declined or gone extinct. The reasons for this crisis are not clear but have been related to habitat destruction, climate change, and/or diseases, such as chytridiomycosis. The R\xedo Palenque Science Center (RPSC) was among the last remnants of tropical rainforest in the western lowlands of Ecuador. Twenty years ago, investigations done by R. McDiarmid, Ken Miyata and others lead to the discovery of an amazing herpetofauna, including several undescribed species. However, the expansion of the agricultural frontier and transformation of the forest remnants into oil palm and banana plantations destroyed this site. Among the species identified from RPSC were five species of glass frogs (family Centrolenidae): Centrolene prosoblepon, Cochranella spinosa, Hyalinobatrachium fleischmanni, Hyalinobatrachium sp. (cf. valerioi), and an undescribed species of the genus Centrolene. This research analyzed the morphological characters and natural history of the five glass frogs of RPSC in order to describe the new species of Centrolene from RPSC, which seems to be critically endangered, if not extinct. The new species is characterized by a combination of the following characters: 1) distinctive coloration in life with dark flecks and yellow dorsolateral stripes on a green dorsum; 2) parietal peritoneum white, covering about \xbd of the venter, pericardium white, liver and stomach without guanophores, large intestine with guanophores; 3) presence of exposed prepollical spines; 4) humeral spines in males; 5) unique glandular nuptial pad between fingers I and II; and 5) reddish iris.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2159/', ['Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Colegio de Ciencias Biol\xf3gicas y Ambientales COCIBA, Laboratorio de Zoolog\xeda Terrestre, Universidad San Francisco de Quito', u'Biological Survey Unit, National Museum of Natural History, USGS Patuxent Wildlife Research Center']]
[u'Structured unit testable templated code for efficient code review process', ['Amol S Patwardhan'], u'2016-06-24', u'Background: Modern software development teams are distributed across onsite and off-shore locations. Each team has developers with varying experience levels and English communication skills. In such a diverse development environment it is important to maintain the software quality, coding standards, timely delivery of features and bug fixes. It is also important to reduce testing effort, minimize side effects such as change in functionality, user experience or application performance. Code reviews are intended to control code quality. Unfortunately, many projects lack enforcement of processes and standards because of approaching deadlines, live production issues and lack of resource availability.\nObjective: This study examines a novel structured, unit testable templated code method to enforce code review standards with an intent to reduce coding effort, minimize revisions and eliminate functional and performance side effects on the system. The proposed method would also result in unit-testable code that can also be easily rolled back and increase team productivity.\nMethod: The baseline for traditional code review processes using metrics such as code review duration, bug regression rate, revision count was measured. These metrics were then compared with results from the proposed code review process that used structured unit testable templated code. The performance on 2 large enterprise level applications spanning over 2 years and 9 feature and maintenance release cycles was evaluated.\nResults: The structured unit testable templated code method resulted in a decrease in total code review time, revision count and coding effort. It also decreased the number of live production issues caused by code churn or side effects of bug fix when compared to traditional code review process.\nConclusion: The study confirmed that the structured unit testable templated code results in improved code review efficiency. It also increased code quality and provided a robust tool to enforce coding standards in a cross-continent software maintenance team environment. It also relieved core resources from code review effort so that they could concentrate more on newer feature development.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2163/', ['Computer Architecture', 'Programming Languages', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering, LSU']]
[u'A public data set of human balance evaluations', ['Damiana A Santos', 'Marcos Duarte'], u'2016-06-24', u'The goal of this study was to create a public data set with results of qualitative and quantitative evaluations related to human balance. Subject\u2019s balance was evaluated by posturography using a force platform and by the Mini Balance Evaluation Systems Tests. In the posturography test, we evaluated subjects during standing still for 60 s in four different conditions where vision and the standing surface were manipulated: on a rigid surface with eyes open; on a rigid surface with eyes closed; on an unstable surface with eyes open; on an unstable surface with eyes closed. Each condition was performed three times and the order of the conditions was randomized among subjects. In addition, the following tests were employed in order to better characterize each subject: Short Falls Efficacy Scale International; International Physical Activity Questionnaire Short Version; and Trail Making Test. The subjects were also interviewed to collect information about their socio-cultural, demographic, and health characteristics. The data set comprises signals from the force platform (raw data for the force, moments of forces, and centers of pressure) of 163 subjects plus one file with information about the subjects and balance conditions and the results of the other evaluations. All the data is available at PhysioNet ( DOI: 10.13026/C2WW2W ) and at Figshare ( DOI: 10.6084/m9.figshare.3394432 ).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2162/', ['Bioengineering', 'Neuroscience', 'Kinesiology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Biomedical Engineering, Universidade Federal do ABC']]
[u'A template-based approach to the modification of binding properties of globular proteins II: Rationale and proposed approach.', ['Imadol V Jeff-Eke'], u'2016-06-24', u'We present a rationale and proposed approach to the modification and development of bind sites using their respective cognate ligands as template. This is in support of a plausible \u201cinstructive\u201d role for the ligand and therefore its involvement in determination of the structure and properties of bind sites. We emphasize the relationship between substrate and active site as an example of the relationship between ligand and bind sites, respectively. This is based on the assumption that there are shared features between all ligand:bind site complexes. Therefore, principles that apply to a specific complex can be applied, in general, to other protein-based complexes. We define ligand-associated probability bias as the difference between the probability of finding activity-determining conformations (ADCs) in the presence- and absence of ligands. For cognate ligands, the given bias is in favor of these ADCs. Thus, bind sites are more likely to assume ADCs when their cognate ligands are present. We relate such probability bias to structural reorganization, disorganization, and preorganization events. We then propose a means of deriving an [apparent] preorganized bind site structure by way of reorganization events that occur with cognate ligand. Finally, we propose a means of deriving an [actual] preorganized bind site structure by way of reorganization events that occur with cognate ligand, albeit during the folding process. The assumption is that the role of the ligand in derivation of such [actual] preorganized bind site structures is an instructive role, and is in support of the Haurowitz-Pauling hypothesis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2161/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioengineering', 'Biophysics', 'Biotechnology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Morehouse School of Medicine, Morehouse School of Medicine']]
[u'A template-based approach to the modification of binding properties of globular proteins I: Background and motivations.', ['Imadol V Jeff-Eke'], u'2016-06-24', u'Design and production of polypeptide/proteins with desired bind site properties involves utilization of the ligand of interest in selection of those bind sites that yield the desired properties from an assortment bind sites with different structures and properties. Thus, as opposed to an \u201cinstructive\u201d role and therefore involvement in determination of these bind site properties, the ligand instead functions in selection of bind sites with preexisting properties. Although there is consensus over this role for ligands, this was not always the case. A debate over the role of cognate ligands dominated discourse during the early- to mid- 20th century. On one hand were proponents of an instructive role (as a direct template), and on the other hand were those in support of \u201cselective\u201d role. Haurowitz and Pauling proposed a role for ligand in determination of bind site properties, whereas Jerne and Burnet proposed selection. Experimental studies and theoretical considerations in immunology \u2013by Nossal and Tonegawa\u2013 and in enzymology \u2013by Anfinsen and Haber\u2013 provided results in support of the selection theory. Thus, an acceptance of selection- over instruction theory. However, both the uniqueness of antibody production and polyclonality draw questions to the applicability of such generalization of selection theory to other non-immune proteins. It is based on these notions that we advocate reconsideration of the instruction (direct template) theory as [at least] a partial explanation of origins of ligand binding properties of peptide molecules. Such reconsiderations are especially relevant when considering some of the current challenges regarding optimization of catalytic rates of artificially engineered enzymes. In such cases, the instruction theory may stand as part of a solution. In addition, this may create an avenue for optimization of: antibody-based therapeutics; and quantitative and qualitative immunoassays; for all of which binding interactions is a crucial determinant of affinity, specificity as well as sensitivity of agent.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2160/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioengineering', 'Biophysics', 'Biotechnology'], [u'Morehouse School of Medicine, Morehouse School of Medicine']]
[u'ExMarine: An experimental field mesocosm system to study multiple-stressor impacts on rock pool biodiversity', ['Jan Niklas Macher'], u'2016-06-24', u'Biodiversity loss due to increasing anthropogenic activities is one of the biggest threats to humanity. Understanding the impacts of multiple-stressors on ecosystems and biodiversity is therefore an urgent task. Shore ecosystems are especially valuable, as they harbour a high biodiversity and provide important ecosystems services. Until now, experimental approaches addressing multiple-stressor impacts on these ecosystems have been rare and mostly run with a limited number of replicates and under non-natural conditions. Here, an experimental field mesocosm system that allows studying multiple-stressor impacts on rock pool biodiversity is proposed. The ExMarine mesocosm system is composed of 64 experimental rock pool mesocosms in a fully randomised block design, which allows studying multiple-stressor impacts under highly standardised conditions. Water is taken directly from the sea, allowing biota to immigrate and emigrate freely. Water flow into the mesocosms can be regulated and it is possible to simulate disturbance through waves during high tide. The system can help to understand the impacts of multiple stressors on biodiversity, to monitor ecosystem health and to plan measures preventing the further loss of biodiversity.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2158/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Aquatic Ecosystem Research, University Duisburg-Essen']]
[u'Feature selection on a dataset of protein families: from exploratory data analysis to statistical variable importance', ['Eugenio Del Prete', 'Serena Dotolo', 'Anna Marabotti', 'Angelo Facchiano'], u'2016-06-24', u'Proteins are characterized by several typologies of features (structural, geometrical, energy). Most of these features are expected to be similar within a protein family. We are interested to detect which features can identify proteins that belong to a family, as well as to define the boundaries among families. Some features are redundant: they could generate noise in identifying which variables are essential as a fingerprint and, consequently, if they are related or not to a function of a protein family. We defined an original approach to analyze protein features for defining their relationships and peculiarities within protein families. A multistep approach has been mainly performed in R environment: getting-cleaning data, exploratory data analysis and predictive modeling for classification. Ten protein families have been chosen by their CATH classification (different architectures), with rules over the number of structures, the length of the sequence and the choice of the chain. Properties investigated are secondary structures, hydrogen bonds, accessible surface areas, torsion angles, packing defects, number of charged residues, free energy of folding, volume and salt bridges. Kernel density estimation helps in discovering unusual multimodal profiles. Pearson correlation highlights statistical links between pairwise variables and Pearson distance provides a dendrogram with a clusterization of the features. PCA clusterizes the protein families and it detects outliers, sparse PCA performs a feature selection. Many classification algorithms have been used: decision trees (classical, boosting and bagging), SVMs (flexible discriminant analysis), centroid (nearest shrunken). The interest is on variable importance estimation. A 10-fold x 10 cross validation has been applied over the training set. Accuracy, K coefficient, sensitivity and specificity have been calculated for each methods. From the density plots, the percentage of mostly buried residues is significantly different for each family. Dissimilarity dendrogram shows separated clusters for secondary structures, torsion angles, defects and geometrical features. From the features network, torsion angles and surface variables result as peripheral (i.e. redundant) from the core of the graph. PCA biplot gives a good clustering for the protein families and sparse PCA confirm dendrogram results. Unifying all the results, these features are typical for our dataset: helix, strand, coil, turn, hydrogen bond, polar and charged accessible surface area, volume and residue buried for the most part. Random forest algorithm has the best performance values. Graphical multivariate procedures are good tools for the characterization of possible fingerprints about the protein families. Predictive models for classification and variable importance estimation help in performing feature selection. The work can be improved by the use of multivariate regression models and the increase of the protein families number.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2157/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Institute of Food Sciences, National Research Council', u'Department of Sciences, University of Basilicata', u'Department of Biochemistry, Biophysics and General Pathology, Second University of Naples', u'Department of Chemistry and Biology "Adolfo Zambelli", University of Salerno']]
[u'Assessing plant pathogen infection rates in natural soils using R', ['Bjorn C Rall', 'Ellen Latz'], u'2016-06-24', u"The potential of soils to naturally suppress inherent plant pathogens is an important ecosystem function. Usually, pathogen infection assays are used for estimating the suppressive potential of soils. In natural soils, however, co-occurring pathogens might simultaneously infect plants complicating the estimation of a focal pathogen's infection rate as a measure of soil suppressiveness. Here, we present a method in R correcting for these unwanted effects by developing a two pathogen mono-molecular infection model. We fit the two pathogen mono-molecular infection model to data by using an integrative approach combining a numerical simulation of the model with an iterative maximum likelihood fit. We show that in presence of co-occurring pathogens uncorrected data critically under- respectively overestimate soil suppressiveness measures. In contrast, our new approach enables to precisely estimate soil suppressiveness measures such as plant infection rate and plant resistance time. Our method allows a correction of measured infection parameters that is necessary in case different pathogens are present. We propose our method to be particularly useful for exploring soil suppressiveness of natural soils from different sites (e.g., in biodiversity experiments).", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2156/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Biodiversity', 'Microbiology', 'Plant Science', 'Statistics'], [u'German Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Research (iDiv) Halle-Jena-Leipzig', u'Institute of Ecology, Friedrich-Schiller Universit\xe4t Jena', u'Department of Aquatic Ecology, Netherlands Institute of Ecology (NIOO-KNAW)', u'Department of Terrestrial Ecology, Netherlands Institute of Ecology (NIOO-KNAW)', u'Department of Animal Ecology, J.F. Blumenbach Institute of Zoology and Anthropology, Georg-August Universit\xe4t G\xf6ttingen']]
[u'Trophic analysis of the fish community in the Ci\xe9nega Churince, Cuatro Ci\xe9negas, Coahuila', ['Ariana Hernandez', 'Hector S Espinosa-Perez', 'Valeria Souza'], u'2016-06-24', u'The fish community in the Churince system includes endemic, native and introduced species. Fish diets were analysed in order to evaluate the tropho-dynamics of the community. Nine sampling campaigns were carried out between February 2011 and May 2014, and 556 specimens of nine fish species were collected. Stomach contents were analysed using the Index of Relative Importance (IRI) and the Index of Absolute Importance (RIa). Similar groups were defined for the trophic chain using the average linkage method. Feeding strategies were stenophagic in only the species  Herichthys minckleyi  and euryphagic in the other eight species. The main food categories found in the stomach contents of the fish community were insects, crustaceans, gastropods, plants and teleosts. Four functional groups were defined for the trophic chain, with no top consumer fish species. Despite this, the fish were observed to be regulators, mainly of invertebrates. The chain reaction in the control of food was thus greater from the top to the bottom.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2154/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Departamento de Zoolog\xeda, Instituto de Biolog\xeda, Universidad Nacional Aut\xf3noma de M\xe9xico', u'Departamento de Ecolog\xeda Evolutiva, Instituto de Ecolog\xeda, Universidad Nacional Aut\xf3noma de M\xe9xico']]
[u'Mapping irrigated areas using multi-sensor remote sensing data in a Mediterranean environment', ['Pasquale Nino', 'Silvia Vanino', 'Flavio Lupia', 'Giuseppe Pulighe', 'Carlo De Michele', "Guido D'Urso"], u'2016-06-24', u'Water managers need map of irrigated areas (defined as the identification of their location and their areal extent) to plan a rational use of water under limited availability and to prevent the unauthorized withdrawals. Many authors have shown that the Earth Observation techniques are an effective tool for mapping irrigated areas worldwide at different spatial scales (global/regional/and local). This study presents a methodology for mapping irrigated areas in semi-arid environment based on Earth Observation techniques and by fully exploiting datasets freely available processed by open source software and tools. Data acquired with the Landsat 8 Operational Land Imager (OLI) and the new Sentinel 2A MultiSpectral Instrument (MSI) sensors were integrated to obtain cloud free dense time series allowing to monitor the vegetation development throughout the growing seasons. Irrigated areas were identified by analysing the growing patterns under water deficit conditions from NDVI values under the assumption that, in arid and semi-arid environment (like the Mediterranean Region), high trend of vegetation growth are compatible only with irrigation. The method was applied in the Cixerri Consortium Irrigation District located in South of Sardinia (Italy).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2155/', ['Spatial and Geographic Information Systems'], [u'Poltiche e Bioeconomia, Consiglio per la Ricerca in Agricoltura e l\u2019Analisi dell\u2019Economia Agraria', u'ARIESPACE s.r.l', u'Department of Agricultural and Food Sciences, University of Naples Federico II']]
[u'Deer herbivory reduces web-building spider abundance by simplifying forest vegetation structure', ['Elizabeth J Roberson', 'Michael J Chips', 'Walter P Carson', 'Thomas P Rooney'], u'2016-06-24', u'Indirect effects are a common feature of ecological systems, arising when one species affects interactions among two or more other species. We examined how browsing by white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) affected the abundance and composition of a web-building spider guild through their effects on the structure of the ground and shrub layers of northern hardwood forests. We examined paired plots consisting of deer-free and control plots in Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. We recorded the abundance of seven types of webs, each corresponding to a family of web-building spiders. We quantified vegetation structure and habitat suitability for the spiders by computing a web scaffold availability index (WSAI) at 0.5 m and 1.0 m above the ground. At Wisconsin sites, we recorded prey availability. Spider webs were twice as abundant in deer-free plots compared to control plots, while WSAI was 7-12 times greater in deer-free plots. Prey availability was also higher in deer-free plots. With the exception of funnel web-builders, all spider web types were significantly more abundant in deer-free plots. Both deer exclusion and the geographic region of plots were significant predictors of spider community structure. In closed canopy forests with high browsing pressure, the low density of tree saplings and shrubs provides few locations for web-building spiders to anchor webs. Recruitment of these spiders may become coupled with forest disturbance events that increase tree and shrub recruitment. By modifying habitat structure, deer indirectly modify arthropod food web interactions. As deer populations have increased in eastern North America over the past several decades, the effects of deer on web-building spiders may be widespread throughout the region.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2153/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Entomology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Biologiccal Sciences, Wright State University', u'Department of Biological Sciences, University of Pittsburgh']]
[u'An agent-based model to assess the forest fires dynamic in the southern Swiss alpine region', ['Annalisa Minelli', 'Marj Tonini'], u'2016-06-24', u'Alpine fires are mainly slope-driven, spreading along the forested steep slopes. Fire ignitions are here highly clustered near anthropogenic infrastructures and this characteristic behavior also affects the definition of the wildland urban interface (WUI). This last is known as the area where houses and other human infrastructures meet or intermingle with wildland vegetation, rural zone or forest. The main objective of the present study is to create a simulation model to assess the forest fire dynamic in pilot area located in the in the southern Swiss alpine region. This allows to investigate, for example, the influence of the mobility of people on the fires occurrences by simulating the daily movement of each single active person; or to simulate the displacement of the firefighters over the territory in order to evaluate the efficiency of different fires fight strategies in time. In this preliminary study the core simulation model has been implemented in GAMA, an open source agent based simulation platform. A long term objective is to conduct a study at global scale, over a wider area (e.g. the entire Canton Ticino), to understand the evolution of the WUI in time, analysing the affecting factors like the population growth or of the urbanisation and land use management.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2152/', ['Agents and Multi-Agent Systems', 'Spatial and Geographic Information Systems'], [u'Independent Researcher in Open Source GIS and Agent Based Modelling', u'Institute of Earth Surface Dynamics, Universit\xe9 de Lausanne']]
[u'Corallimorpharians are not \u201cnaked corals\u201d: insights into relationships between Scleractinia and Corallimorpharia from phylogenomic analyses', ['Mei Fang Lin', 'Wen Hwa Chou', 'Marcelo V Kitahara', 'Chao Lun Allen Chen', 'David John Miller', 'Sylvain Foret'], u'2016-06-24', u'Calcification is one of the most distinctive traits of scleractinian corals. Their hard skeletons form the substratum of reef ecosystems and confer on corals their remarkable diversity of shapes. Corallimorpharians are non-calcifying, close relatives of scleractinian corals, and the evolutionary relationship between these two groups is key to understanding the evolution of calcification in the coral lineage. One pivotal question is whether scleractinians are a monophyletic group, paraphyly being an alternative possibility if corallimorpharians are corals that have lost their ability to calcify, as is implied by the \u201cnaked-coral\u201d hypothesis. Despite major efforts, relationships between scleractinians and corallimorpharians remain equivocal and controversial. Although the complete mitochondrial genomes of a range of scleractinians and corallimorpharians have been obtained, heterogeneity in composition and evolutionary rates means that mitochondrial sequences are insufficient to understand the relationship between these two groups. To overcome these limitations, transcriptome data were generated for three representative corallimorpharians. These were used in combination with sequences available for a representative range of scleractinians to identify 291 orthologous single copy protein-coding nuclear markers. Unlike the mitochondrial sequences, these nuclear markers do not display any distinct compositional bias in their nucleotide or amino-acid sequences. A range of phylogenomic approaches congruently reveal a topology consistent with scleractinian monophyly and corallimorpharians as the sister clade of scleractinians.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2151/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'James Cook University, Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Coral Reef Studies', u'Biodiversity Research Center, Academia Sinica', u'Departamento de Ci\xeancias do Mar, Universidade Federal de S\xe3o Paulo', u'Centro de Biologia Marinha, Universidade de S\xe3o Paulo', u'James Cook University, Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Coral Reef Studies', u'Research School of Biology, Australian National University']]
[u'The effect of pleasant touch on nose skin temperature, heart rate and heart rate variability: preliminary results in a male laboratory rhesus monkey', ['Laura Clara Grandi', 'Eugenio L Heinzl'], u'2016-06-24', u'Human and animal studies emphasize the importance of affiliative touch among conspecifics, both from the behavioral and physiological perspectives. Among non-human primates, allogrooming, and in particular the pleasant sweeping motion occurring during it, could be considered analogous to human social affiliative touch. Despite the evidences of the effects of affiliative touch in terms of heart rate (HR) and heart rate variability (HRV), both in humans and non-human primates, the physiological consequences have never been investigated in respect to the body temperature changes through infrared thermography (IRT). The aim of the present study was to investigate for the first time in a male rhesus monkey, the physiological effects of sweeping the back at different speeds in terms of nose skin temperature changes, and to explore the possible relationship with the HR and HRV. The preliminary results underline that sweeping the back at a speed of 5\u201310 cm/sec determined an increment of the nose skin temperature and HRV, together with a decrement of the HR. These preliminary data represent the first evidence of the body temperature changes manifesting during affiliative touch at the speed of 5\u201310 cm/sec in non-human primates and the existence of a possible relationship among the body temperature, HR and HRV. This study represents an important starting point in order to investigate the affiliative pleasant social touch by means of non-invasive techniques (e.g. the IRT), and to deeply examine the correlation between body temperature and cardiac changes, both in humans and non-human primates.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2150/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Veterinary Medicine'], [u'Department of Neuroscience, Physiology Unit, University of Parma', u'Department of Veterinary Science and Public Health, Universit\xe0 degli studi di milano']]
