[u'Pests, diseases and crop protection practices in the smallholder sweetpotato production system of the highlands of Papua New Guinea', ['Geoff M Gurr', 'Jian Liu', 'Anne C Johnson', 'Deane N Woruba', 'Gunnar Kirchhof', 'Ryosuke Fujinuma', 'William Sirabis', 'Yapo Jeffery', 'Ramakrishna Akkinapally'], u'2016-08-27', u'Sweetpotato (Ipomea batatans) is a food crop of global significance. The storage roots and foliage of crop are attacked by a wide range of pests and diseases. Whilst these are generally well controlled in developed countries using approaches such as clean planting material and monitoring with pheromone traps to guide insecticide use, research into methods suitable for developing countries has lagged. In Papua New Guinea (PNG), sweetpotato is grown extensively as a subsistence crop and commercial production as a cash crop is developing. We report results from a survey of 33 smallholder producers located in the Highlands of PNG where the crop is of particular importance. Surveys of interviewees\u2019 crops showed high levels of pest and disease impact to foliage, stems and storage roots, especially in crops that were several years old. Weevils (Curculionidae) were reportedly the most damaging pests and scab (caused by the fungus Elisnoe batatus) the most damaging disease. Most producers reported root damage from the former and foliar damage from the latter but the general level of knowledge of pest and disease types was low. Despite the apparency of pest and disease signs and symptoms and recognition of their importance by farmers, a large majority of producers reported practiced no active pest or disease management. This was despite low numbers of farmers reporting use of traditional cultural practices including phytosanitary measures and insecticidal plants that had the scope for far wider use. Only one respondent reported use of insecticide though pesticides were available in nearby cities. This low level of pest and disease management in most cases, likely due to paucity in biological and technical knowledge among growers, hampers efforts to establish food security and constrains the development of sweetpotato as a cash crop.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2394/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Entomology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Institute of Applied Ecology, Fujian Agriculture & Forestry University', u'Graham Centre for Agricultural Innovation, Charles Sturt University', u'Elizabeth Macarthur Agricultural Institute, NSW Department of Primary Industries', u'School of Agriculture and Food Sciences, The University of Queensland', u'Highlands Regional Centre, National Agricultural Research Institute', u'National Agricultural Research Institute']]
[u'MARCARviz: Interactive web-platform for exploratory analysis of toxicogenomics data for nongenotoxic hepatocarcinogenesis', ['Michael Romer', 'Heidrun Ellinger-Ziegelbauer', 'Bettina Grasl-Kraupp', 'Michael Schwarz', 'Andreas Zell'], u'2016-08-26', u'The late detection of non-genotoxic carcinogens in the drug development process can delay drug candidates for unmet medical needs from reaching the market despite considerable investments in their development. To enable faster, safer, and less expensive development of medications for patients, the MARCAR project generated a large set of transcriptomic data to investigate the underlying mechanisms of non-genotoxic hepatocarcinogenesis and to identify potential biomarkers for early detection of tumor formation in the rodent liver. The effective mining of these high-dimensional datasets is a non-trivial task that usually requires bioinformatics support to extract relevant mechanistic patterns and confirm toxicological hypotheses. Here, we present MARCARviz, a web-platform that enables biologists to (a) quickly address the most common questions associated with the MARCAR microarray data, to (b) identify relevant patterns in the data, and to (c) generate or confirm mechanistic hypotheses about non-genotoxic effects leading to cancer formation. The major advantage of MARCARviz is that there is no software or advanced technical knowledge required to perform powerful analyses and generate visualizations of the MARCAR data. MARCARviz greatly facilitates the confirmation of published MARCAR results and generation of new insights from the collected data by the greater public without the requirement for tedious pre-processing steps. MARCARviz is publicly available from https://tea.cs.uni-tuebingen.de/.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2393/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Oncology', 'Pharmacology'], [u'Department of Cognitive Systems, Eberhard-Karls-Universit\xe4t T\xfcbingen', u'Investigational Toxicology, Bayer Pharma AG', u'Department of Medicine, Medical University of Vienna', u'Department of Toxicology, Eberhard-Karls-Universit\xe4t T\xfcbingen']]
