[u'Structural models of the human iron exporter ferroportin in the inward- and outward- open states', ['Valentina Tortosa', 'Fabio Polticelli'], u'2016-06-22', u'Motivation\nFerroportin (Fpn) is a membrane protein belonging to the Major Facilitator Superfamily of transporters. It is the only vertebrate iron exporter known so far. Several Fpn mutations lead to the so-called \u2018ferroportin disease\u2019 or type 4 haemochromatosis, characterized by two distinct iron accumulation phenotypes depending on whether the mutations affects the protein\u2019s activity or its degradation pathway (1). Despite a general agreement of the scientific community on a 12 transmembrane helices topology, no experimental data are available on human Fpn (HsFpn) three-dimensional structure. Thus, important features of HsFpn remain to be clarified. Recently, the crystal structures of a HsFpn homologue from the predatory Gram-negative bacterium Bdellovibrio bacteriovorus (BbFPN), in both the outward- (Figure 1 A) and inward-open states (Figure 1 B), has been reported (2). The residues essential for iron binding and transport in HsFpn are conserved in BbFPN (3). The conservation of these functionally relevant residues prompted us to exploit the two BbFPN structures to construct reliable models of HsFPN.\nMethods\nThe structural models of HsFpn in were built in both the outward- and inward-open states through the ab initio/threading strategy implemented in the I-TASSER server (4). The overall quality of the models generated has been evaluated using PROCHECK (5) and the model quality parameters provided in the I-TASSER output, such as the C-score. Putative iron binding sites have been detected using LIBRA (6).\nResults\nThe models display the typical fold of MFS proteins with 12 TMs spanning the membrane and the N- and C-termini located on the intracellular side (Figure 1). LIBRA analysis of the models has led to the identification of potential iron binding sites in the inward-open state allowing to propose an iron traslocation mechanism. Further, the outward-open model uncovers details of the interaction site of the peptide hormone hepcidin, a regulator of HsFpn function. Fin ally, the HsFPN models provide a mechanistic interpretation for the disease-related mutations that cause hereditary hemochromatosis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2149/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioinformatics', 'Cell Biology', 'Computational Biology', 'Translational Medicine'], [u'Department of Sciences, Third University of Rome', u'National Institute of Nuclear Physics, Roma Tre Section']]
[u'Structure prediction of ordered domains of Huntingtin', ['Valentina Brandi', 'Fabio Polticelli'], u'2016-06-22', u'An abnormal polyglutamine (polyQ) expansion in the N-terminal fragment of the Huntingtin (Htt) protein leads to the devastating neurodegenerative disorder Huntington\u2019s disease (HD). Htt is ubiquitous both at the tissue and subcellular levels and is fundamental for the survival and functioning of the brain neurons that predominantly degenerate in HD. In the hope of finding a cure for HD, there has been intense research aimed at understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying the deleterious effects of the presence of the abnormal polyQ expansion in Htt (Saudou and Humbert, 2016). It is a protein of 3144 amino acids and its high molecular weight prevents crystals production and X-ray diffraction studies to determine its three-dimensional structure. Further, Htt doesn\u2019t display significant sequence similarity with other proteins of known structure, making difficult the study of its structure-function relationships (Zuccato et al., 2010). Therefore the main motivation of this study was that of obtaining structural information on Htt using ab initio/threading protein structure prediction techniques, information which could provide new insight into its functions and the mechanisms through which the mutation leads to the neurodegeneration. Ordered and disordered regions of Htt were predicted using Foldindex (Prilusky et al., 2005), GlobPlot (Linding et al., 2003), Predict Protein (Yachdav et al., 2014), Anchor (Doszt\xe1nyi et al., 2009), InterPro (Mitchell et al., 2014), Smart (Letunic et al., 2014), HMMER (Finn et al., 2011), Espritz (Potenza et al., 2014) and MobiDB (Walsh et al., 2012). Structure prediction was performed through the use of I-TASSER (Roy et al., 2010), Rosetta (Kaufmann et al., 2010) and Robetta (Kim et al., 2004). The Dali server (Holm and Rosenstr\xf6m, 2010) has been used to infer structural similarities and hypothesize a possible function for each Htt domain. Using a consensus between different order/disorder prediction methods, Htt sequence has been divided in five regions predicted to form ordered domains (Hunt1-5). Then a structure prediction was performed for each ordered domain, obtaining the structural models depicted in Figure 1. Four out of five models are characterized by a prevalence of \u03b1-helical structure, in agreement with the predicted presence in Htt of Heat repeats. A structural homolog has been identified for each model of Htt ordered domains. Interestingly, Hunt1, 2 and 5 models display structural similarity with the subunit A of protein Phosphatase 2, the most important serin/threonine phosphatase involved in many essential aspects of cellular function (Xu et al., 2006). Hunt3 model displays structural similarity with the karyopherin Kap121p while Hunt4 model with poly U polymerase Cid1. To our knowledge, this work represents the first attempt to predict the structural and functional features of all Htt domains and the results obtained may represent a starting point for future experimental studies.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2148/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Genetics', 'Cognitive Disorders'], [u'Department of Sciences, Third University of Rome', u'National Institute of Nuclear Physics, Roma Tre Section']]
[u'Visual analogies in anatomic and clinical pathology', ['Lisa Kipersztok', 'Gwinyai Masukume', 'Ritu Lakhtakia'], u'2016-06-22', u'Visual medical analogies have been utilized by multiple medical disciplines for decades. Despite misgivings that some might have about such analogies, they act as excellent learning aids and will undoubtedly remain useful for decades to come. The microscope from about the seventeenth century onwards revolutionized medicine and cellular biology. In this article, we specifically consider in a pictorial essay culinary medical analogies as they pertain to the microscopic world, a gap in the literature on visual medical analogies.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2147/', ['Pathology'], [u'Department of Family Medicine, Oregon Health Sciences University', u'Irish Centre for Fetal and Neonatal Translational Research (INFANT), Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University College Cork', u'National Centre for Growth and Development, University of Auckland', u'Division of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of the Witwatersrand', u'Department of Pathology, College of Medicine & Health Sciences, Sultan Qaboos University']]
