[u'Molecular docking of Sulfobacillus acidophilus barbiturase with s-triazine compounds', ['Zarrin Basharat', 'Azra Yasmin'], u'2016-05-23', u'Barbiturases have scarce structural information available and do not fit in the conventional group of proteins. It is contemplated that they play a role in catabolism of s-triazine herbicide compounds. Structure as well as interaction data information of barbiturase with s-triazine compounds is missing. Sequence data is a goldmine of biological information and acts as raw material for structure and docking analysis. De novo structure prediction of the Sulfobacillus acidophilus DSM 10332 barbiturase has been attempted in this data article. Molecular docking analysis was carried out with atrazine, simazine and hexazinone belonging to s-triazine class of herbicides. The analysis revealed key residues necessary for these interactions. The generated data could be used by environmental scientists working on the enzyme assisted herbicide degradation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2070/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Environmental Sciences, Fatima Jinnah Women University']]
[u'A simple method for measuring long-term integrated testosterone levels in men', ['Devorah Matas', 'Lee Koren'], u'2016-05-23', u'Steroids play multiple roles in the regulation of development, physiology, reproduction, and behavior. Measuring circulating steroids is especially challenging since concentrations are extremely labile, responding to stressors within minutes. Matrices that integrate long-term steroid levels are therefore valuable as biomarkers of baseline, as well as chronic steroid exposures. Here we report on a simple method to extract and measure accumulated testosterone from human fingernails using commercial EIA kits. Further, we demonstrate known human testosterone sex and age trends. Thus, this method is a potential tool for biomonitoring endogenous as well as exogenous steroid exposure.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2069/', ['Andrology', 'Diabetes and Endocrinology'], [u'Faculty of Life Sciences, Bar-Ilan University']]
[u'GRNsight: a web application and service for visualizing models of small- to medium-scale gene regulatory networks', ['Kam D Dahlquist', 'John David N Dionisio', 'Ben G Fitzpatrick', 'Nicole A Anguiano', 'Anindita Varshneya', 'Britain J Southwick', 'Mihir Samdarshi'], u'2016-05-23', u'GRNsight is a web application and service for visualizing models of gene regulatory networks (GRNs). A gene regulatory network consists of genes, transcription factors, and the regulatory connections between them which govern the level of expression of mRNA and protein from genes. The original motivation to create GRNsight came from our efforts to perform parameter estimation and forward simulation of the dynamics of a differential equations model of a small GRN with 21 nodes and 31 edges. We wanted a quick and easy way to visualize the weight parameters from the model which represent the direction and magnitude of the influence of a transcription factor on its target gene, so we created GRNsight. GRNsight automatically lays out either an unweighted or weighted network graph based on an Excel input spreadsheet containing an adjacency matrix where regulators are named in the columns and target genes in the rows. When a user uploads a spreadsheet with an unweighted adjacency matrix, GRNsight automatically lays out the graph using black lines and pointed arrowheads. When a user uploads a spreadsheet with a weighted adjacency matrix, GRNsight uses pointed and blunt arrowheads, and colors the edges and adjusts their thicknesses based on the sign (positive for activation or negative for repression) and magnitude of the weight parameter. GRNsight is written in JavaScript, with diagrams facilitated by D3.js, a data visualization library. Node.js and the Express framework handle server-side functions. GRNsight\u2019s diagrams are based on D3.js\u2019s force graph layout algorithm, which was then extensively customized to support the specific needs of GRN visualization. Nodes are rectangular and support gene labels of up to 12 characters. The edges are arcs, which become straight lines when the nodes are close together. Self-regulatory edges are indicated by a loop on the lower-right side of a node. When a user mouses over an edge, the numerical value of the weight parameter is displayed. Visualizations can be modified by sliders that adjust D3.js\u2019s force graph layout parameters and through manual node dragging. GRNsight is best-suited for visualizing networks of fewer than 35 nodes and 70 edges, although it accepts networks of up to 75 nodes or 150 edges. Although originally designed for GRNs, GRNsight has general applicability for displaying any small, unweighted or weighted network with directed edges for systems biology or other application domains. GRNsight serves as an example of following and teaching best practices for scientific computing, using an open and test-driven development model with rigorous documentation of requirements and issues on GitHub. An exhaustive unit testing framework using Mocha and the Chai assertion library consists of over 130 automated unit tests that examine over 520 test files to ensure that the program is running as expected. GRNsight is available under the open source BSD license at http://dondi.github.io/GRNsight/ .', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2068/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Graphics', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Department of Biology, Loyola Marymount University', u'Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science, Loyola Marymount University', u'Department of Mathematics, Loyola Marymount University', u'Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Loyola Marymount University']]
[u'The mosaic architecture of Aeromonas salmonicida subsp. salmonicida pAsa4 plasmid and its consequences on antibiotic resistance', ['Katherine H Tanaka', 'Antony T Vincent', 'Melanie V Trudel', 'Valerie E Paquet', 'Michel Frenette', 'Steve J Charette'], u'2016-05-23', u'Aeromonas salmonicida subsp. salmonicida, the causative agent of furunculosis in salmonids, is an issue especially because many isolates of this bacterium display antibiotic resistances, which limit treatments against the disease. Recent results suggested the possible existence of alternative forms of pAsa4, a large plasmid found in A. salmonicida subsp. salmonicida and bearing multiple antibiotic resistance genes. The present study reveals the existence of two newly detected pAsa4 variants, pAsa4b and pAsa4c. We present the extensive characterization of the genomic architecture, the mobile genetic elements and the antimicrobial resistances genes of these plasmids in addition to the reference pAsa4 from the strain A449. The analysis showed differences between the three architectures with consequences on the content of resistance genes. The genomic plasticity of the three pAsa4 variants could be partially explained by the action of mobile genetic elements like insertion sequences. Isolates from Canada and Europe that bore similar antibiotic resistance patterns than pAsa4-bearing strains were genotyped and specific pAsa4 variants could be attributed to phenotypic profiles. pAsa4 and pAsa4c were found in Europe, while pAsa4b was found in Canada. The plasticity of pAsa4 variants related to the acquisition of antibiotic resistance indicates that these plasmids may pose a threat in terms of the dissemination of antimicrobial-resistant A.salmonicida subsp. salmonicida bacteria.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2067/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology'], [u'Institut de biologie int\xe9grative et des syst\xe8mes', u'Institut universitaire de cardiologie et de pneumologie de Qu\xe9bec', u'D\xe9partement de biochimie, microbiologie et bio-informatique, Universit\xe9 Laval', u'Universit\xe9 Laval, Groupe de Recherche en \xc9cologie Buccale (GREB)']]
[u'Antioxidant nutrition in Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) parr and post-smolt, fed diets with high inclusion of plant ingredients and graded levels of micronutrients and selected amino acids', ['Kristin Hamre', 'Nini H. Sissener', 'Erik-Jan Lock', 'Pal A Olsvik', 'Marit Espe', 'Bente E Torstensen', 'Joana Silva', 'Johan Johansen', 'Rune  Waagb', 'Gro-Ingunn ghe Hemre'], u'2016-05-23', u'The shift from marine to plant based ingredients in fish feeds affects the dietary concentrations and bioavailability of micronutrients, amino acids and lipids and consequently warrants a re-evaluation of dietary nutrient recommendations. In the present study, an Atlantic salmon diet high in plant ingredients was supplemented with graded levels of nutrient premix (NP), containing selected amino acids, taurine, cholesterol, vitamins and minerals. This article presents the results on the antioxidant nutrients vitamin C, E and selenium (Se), and effects on tissue redox status. The feed ingredients appeared to contain sufficient levels of vitamin E and Se to cover the requirements to prevent clinical deficiency symptoms. The body levels of \u03b1-tocopherol (TOH) in parr and that of Se in parr and post-smolt showed a linear relationship with dietary concentration, while \u03b1-TOH in post-smolt seemed to be saturable with a breakpoint near 140 mg kg-1. Ascorbic acid (Asc) concentration in the basal feed was below the expected minimum requirement, but the experimental period was probably too short for the fish to develop visible deficiency symptoms. Asc was saturable in both parr and post-smolt whole body at dietary concentrations of 190 and 63-89 mg kg-1, respectively. Maximum whole body Asc concentration was approximately 40 mg kg-1 in parr and 14 mg kg-1 in post-smolt. Retention ranged from 41 to 10% in parr and from -206 to 12% in post-smolt with increasing NP supplementation. This indicates that the post-smolts had an extraordinarily high consumption of Asc. Analyses of glutathione (GSH) and glutathione disulphide (GSSG) concentrations and the calculated GSH based redox potentials in liver and muscle tissue, indicated only minor effects of diets on redox regulation. However, the post-smolt were more oxidized than the parr. This was supported by the high consumption of Asc and high expression of gpx1 and gpx3 in liver. Based on the present trials, the recommendations for supplementation of vitamin C and E in diets for Atlantic salmon are similar to current practices, e.g 150-200 mg kg-1 of \u03b1-TOH and 190 mg kg-1 Asc which was the saturating concentration in parr. Higher concentrations than what would prevent clinical deficiency symptoms are necessary to protect fish against incidents of oxidative stress and to improve immune and stress responses. There were no indications that the Se requirement exceeded the current recommendation of 0.3 mg kg-1.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2066/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Veterinary Medicine'], [u'National Institute of Nutrition and Seafood Research', u'Fish nutrition, Requirement and Welfare, National Institute of Nutrition and Seafood Research', u'Biomar AS', u'GIFAS']]
[u'mockrobiota: a public resource for microbiome bioinformatics benchmarking', ['Nicholas A Bokulich', 'Jai Ram Rideout', 'William G Mercurio', 'Benjamin Wolfe', 'Corinne F Maurice', 'Rachel J Dutton', 'Peter J Turnbaugh', 'Rob Knight', 'J. Gregory Caporaso'], u'2016-05-23', u'Mock communities are an important tool for validating, optimizing, and comparing bioinformatics methods for microbial community analysis. We present mockrobiota, a public resource for sharing, validating, and documenting mock community data resources, available at https://github.com/caporaso-lab/mockrobiota. The materials contained in mockrobiota include dataset and sample metadata, expected composition data, which are annotated based on one or more reference taxonomies, links to raw data (e.g., raw sequence data) for each mock community dataset, and optional reference sequences for mock community members. mockrobiota does not supply physical sample materials directly, but the dataset metadata included for each mock community indicate whether physical sample materials are available (and associated contact information). At the time of this writing, mockrobiota contains 11 mock community datasets with known species compositions (including bacterial, archaeal, and eukaryotic mock communities), analyzed by high-throughput marker-gene sequencing. The availability of standard, public mock community data will facilitate ongoing methods optimizations; comparisons across studies that share source data; greater transparency and access; and eliminate redundancy. This dynamic resource is intended to expand and evolve to meet the changing needs of the \u2018omics community.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2065/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Ecology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Center for Microbial Genetics and Genomics, Northern Arizona University', u'Department of Biology, Tufts University', u'Department   of   Microbiology   &   Immunology   Department,   Microbiome   and   Disease   Tolerance   Centre, McGill University', u'Division of Biological Sciences, University of California, San Diego', u'\u200bCenter for Microbiome Innovation, University of California, San Diego', u'\u200bDepartment of Microbiology and Immunology, G.W. Hooper Foundation, University of California, San Francisco', u'\u200bDepartment   of   Computer   Science   and   Engineering, University of California, San Diego', u'\u200bDepartment of Pediatrics, University of California, San Diego', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Northern Arizona University']]
[u'The GRIM test: A simple technique detects numerous anomalies in the reporting of results in psychology', ['Nicholas J L Brown', 'James A J Heathers'], u'2016-05-23', u'We present a simple mathematical technique that we call GRIM (Granularity-Related Inconsistency of Means) for verifying the summary statistics of published research reports in psychology. This technique evaluates whether the reported means of integer data such as Likert-type scales are consistent with the given sample size and number of items. We tested this technique with a sample of 260 recent articles in leading journals within empirical psychology. Of the subset of articles that were amenable to testing with the GRIM technique (N = 71), around half (N = 36; 50.7%) appeared to contain at least one reported mean inconsistent with the reported sample sizes and scale characteristics, and more than 20% (N = 16) contained multiple such inconsistencies. We requested the data sets corresponding to 21 of these articles, receiving positive responses in 9 cases. We were able to confirm the presence of at least one reporting error in all cases, with 2 articles requiring extensive corrections. The implications for the reliability and replicability of empirical psychology are discussed.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2064/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Statistics'], [u'University Medical Center Groningen, University of Groningen', u'Division of Cardiology and Intensive Therapy, Pozna\u0144 University of Medical Sciences']]
