[u'Three-dimensional printing for device selection in cardiology: Several key points should not be neglected', ['Hongxing Luo', 'Zhongmin Wang'], u'2016-11-15', u'We comment on the recent developments and problems of three-dimensional printing in cardiology. Since there are currently no standards or consensuses for 3D printing in clinical medicine and the technology is at its infancy in cardiology, it\u2019s very important to detail the procedures to allow more similar studies to further our understandings of this novel technology. Most studies have employed computed tomography to obtain source data for 3D printing, the use of real-time 3D transesophageal echocardiography for data acquisition remains rare, so it would be very valuable and inspiring to detail the image postprocessing steps, or the reliability of the study results will be doubtful.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2597/', ['Anatomy and Physiology', 'Cardiology', 'Clinical Trials', 'Radiology and Medical Imaging'], [u"Department of Cardiology, Zhengzhou University People's Hospital (Henan Provincial People's Hospital)"]]
[u'Somatic inhibition controls dendritic selectivity in a sparse coding network of spiking neurons', ['Damien Drix'], u'2016-11-15', u'Sparse coding is an effective operating principle for the brain, one that can guide the discovery of features and support the learning of assocations. Here we show how spiking neurons with discrete dendrites can learn sparse codes via an online, nonlinear Hebbian rule based on the concept of somato-dendritic mismatch. The rule gives lateral inhibition direct control over the selectivity of dendritic receptive fields, without the need for a sliding threshold. The network discovers independent components that are similar to the features learned by a sparse autoencoder. This improves the linear decodability of the input: combined with a linear readout, our single-layer network performs as well as a deeper multi-layer Perceptron on the MNIST dataset. It can also produce topographic feature maps when the lateral connections are organised in a center-surround pattern, although this does not improve the quality of the encoding.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2595/', ['Computational Biology', 'Adaptive and Self-Organizing Systems', 'Artificial Intelligence', 'Data Mining and Machine Learning'], [u'Department of Informatics, Humboldt Universit\xe4t']]
[u'Evolution of the patellar sesamoid bone in mammals', ['Mark E Samuels', 'Sophie Regnault', 'John R Hutchinson'], u'2016-11-14', u'The patella is a sesamoid bone located in the major extensor tendon of the knee joint, in the hindlimb of many tetrapods. Although numerous aspects of knee morphology are ancient and conserved among most tetrapods, the evolutionary occurrence of the patella is highly variable. Among extant (crown clade) groups it is found in most birds, most lizards, the monotreme mammals and almost all placental mammals, but it is absent in most marsupial mammals as well as many reptiles. Here we integrate data from the literature and first-hand studies of fossil and recent skeletal remains to reconstruct the evolution of the mammalian patella. We infer that patellae most likely evolved between four to six times in crown group Mammalia: in monotremes, in the extinct multituberculates, in one or more stem-mammal genera outside of therian or eutherian mammals, and up to three times in therian mammals. Furthermore, a patella was lost several times in mammals, not including those with absent hindlimbs: once or more in marsupials (with some re-acquisition), and at least once in bats. Our inferences about patellar evolution in mammals are reciprocally informed by the existence of several human genetic conditions in which the patella is either absent or severely reduced. Clearly, development of the patella is under close genomic control, although its responsiveness to its mechanical environment is also important (and perhaps variable among taxa). Where a patella is present it plays an important role in hindlimb function; especially in resisting gravity by providing an enhanced lever system for the knee joint. Yet the evolutionary origins, persistence and modifications of a patella in diverse groups with widely varying habits and habitats -- from digging to running to aquatic, small or large body sizes, bipeds or quadrupeds -- remain complex and perplexing, impeding a conclusive synthesis of form, function, development and genetics across mammalian evolution. This meta-analysis takes an initial step toward such a synthesis by collating available data and elucidating areas of promising future inquiry.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2594/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology', 'Zoology', 'Anatomy and Physiology'], [u'Department of Medicine, University of Montreal', u'Centre de Recherche du CHU Ste-Justine', u'Structure & Motion Laboratory, Department of Comparative Biomedical Sciences, The Royal Veterinary College']]
[u'SmallOrgan 1 plays an essential role in cell proliferation, cell expansion and cadmium uptake in rice', ['Peng Qin', 'Jiangbo Hu', 'Weilan Chen', 'Guohua Zhang', 'Jian Li', 'Shijun Fan', 'Bin Tu', 'Xuewei Chen', 'Yuping W Wang', 'Shigui Li', 'Bingtian Ma'], u'2016-11-14', u'Background:  Organ size is determined by the number and size of cells, which are controlled by cell proliferation and cell expansion. Organ size in rice plays a crucial role in determination of rice yield. Cadmium (Cd), one of the major environmental pollutants, is harmful to human health. Cd-polluted rice grains have been a major source of human Cd-intake, thus reducing Cd-uptake into rice grains isimportant. Strigolactone (SL), a hormone, has been well-studied in terms of regulating plant architecture and in its signal perception, but its biological roles in cell proliferation, cell expansion and Cd-uptake have not been uncovered.Methods:  We comprehensively investigated agronomic traits and cell size between WT and so1 . We treated WT and  so1  with Cd, and analyzed Cd content in rice grain using inductively coupled plasma massspectrometry (ICP-MS). We used bulk segregation analysis for SO1 mapping, and analyzed sequences surrounding SO1 in  rufipogo , indica,  japonica  and  intermedia  varieties of rice. Results:  We identified a spontaneous rice mutant, small organs 1 (  so1)  , which exhibited small organs,such as small leaves, panicles and grains. Cytological analysis indicated that the small organs of  so1  were due to both impaired cell proliferation and expansion. We found that  so1  grains highly accumulated Cd after Cd treatment. In the  so1  mutant, an 8bp insertion resulting in a premature stop codon was identified in  LOC_Os04g46470 (  High-Tillering Dwarf1  ) which is involved in Strigolactone (SL) synthesis. Because both  htd1  and  so1  mutants exhibited dwarf and excessive tillers, the 8bp insertion was responsible for the  so1  phenotype.  SO1/HTD1  was ubiquitously expressed, most highly in stem and sheath. Very few SNP polymorphisms surrounding  SO1/HTD1  were identified in  japonica group, whereas SNPs were abundant in the  rufipogon, indica  and  intermedia  groups.Discussion:  Our work showed the novel biological roles of SO1/HTD1 in controlling rice organ size and Cd-uptake, and indicated that the SL signaling pathway is involved in cell proliferation, cell expansion, and Cd-uptake, a role completely different from the previously reported role of HTD1. Therefore, our study is helpful for understanding the molecular functions of  SO1/HTD1  and SL during rice development.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2593/', ['Genetics', 'Plant Science'], [u'Rice Research Institute, Sichuan Agricultural University']]
