[u'Early to Middle Miocene shallow-water corals from La Guajira, Colombia', ['Paola Florez', 'Paula Andrea Zapata-Ramirez', 'Carlos Jaramillo', 'James S Klaus'], u'2016-10-08', u'Here we describe and illustrate 31 Miocene corals species from the Siaman\xe1 and Jimol Formations that were collected over two expeditions in the Guajira basin, Colombia during 2011 and 2014. Corals include 25 species, derived from 15 different genera and 12 families. Six of them remain with open nomenclature. From the 25 species found in the study area, 88% are extinct and the remaining under endanger status. Most of the species are hermatypic components of the Scleractinian order, with the exception of a member of the Milleporidae family. The corals described are composed of typical taxa from the Oligocene-Miocene transition, during which they were important components in building fringing and patch reefs in the circum-Caribbean/Gulf of Mexico region. The presence of typical Oligocene coral taxa such as Agathiphyllia spp., Antiguastrea sp., and Diploastrea spp. from La Guajira extend the distribution of these genera into the Miocene, adding a more recent geological presence in the Southern Caribbean. Coral assemblages suggest a development in clear, calm and shallow waters, under oligotrophic conditions and only moderate physical disturbance. Our descriptions represent the first effort to characterize the taxonomy of fossilized corals in Colombia.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2507/', ['Marine Biology', 'Paleontology'], [u'Estratigraf\xeda y Paleontolog\xeda, Universidad de Granada', u'Corporaci\xf3n, Corporaci\xf3n Geol\xf3gica ARES', u'Department of Geological Sciences, University of Miami', u'Research Institute, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institue', u'Department of Geological Sciences, University of Miami']]
[u'Catchments catch all in South African coastal lowlands: multilocus phylogeography and distribution modelling of Nymania capensis (Meliaceae) reveal topographic and palaeoclimatic connectivity constraints', ['Alastair J Potts'], u'2016-10-08', u'Background. This study investigates orbitally-forced range dynamics at a regional scale by exploring the evolutionary history of Nymania capensis (Meliaceae) across the deeply incised landscapes of the subescarpment coastal lowlands of South Africa; a region home to three biodiversity hotspots (Succulent Karoo, Fynbos, and Maputaland-Pondoland-Albany hotspots).\nMethods. A range of methods are used including: multilocus phylogeography (chloroplast and high- and low-copy nuclear DNA), molecular dating and species distribution modelling (SDM).\nResults. The results support an \u2018evolutionarily distinct catchment\u2019 hypothesis where: 1) di\ufb00erent catchments contain genetically distinct lineages, 2) limited genetic structuring was detected within basins whilst high structuring was detected between basins, and 3) within primary catchment populations display a high degree of genealogical lineage sorting. In addition, the results support a glacial refugia hypothesis as: a) the timing of chloroplast lineage diversi\ufb01cation is restricted to the Pleistocene in a landscape that has been relatively unchanged since the late Pliocene, and b) the projected LGM distribution of suitable climate for N. capensis suggest fragmentation into refugia that correspond to the current phylogeographic populations.\nDiscussion. This study highlights the interaction of topography and subtle Pleistocene climate variations as drivers affecting both seed and pollen flow along these lowlands. This lends support to the region\u2019s large-scale conservation planning efforts, which used catchments as foundational units for conservation as these are likely to be evolutionary significant units.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2506/', ['Biogeography', 'Conservation Biology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Centre for Coastal Palaeoscience, Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University']]
[u'Cropping system diversification for food production in Mindanao rubber plantations: A rice cultivar mixture and rice intercropped with mungbean', ['Rosa Fe Hondrade', 'Edwin Hondrade', 'Lianqing Zheng', 'Francisco Elazegui', 'JLE Duque', 'Christopher C Mundt', 'Casiana M Vera Cruz', 'Karen A Garrett'], u'2016-10-08', u'Including food production in non-food systems, such as rubber plantations and biofuel or bioenergy crops, may contribute to household food security. We evaluated the potential for use of rice, mungbean, rice cultivar mixtures, and rice intercropped with mungbean in experiments planted in young rubber plantations in the Arakan Valley of Mindanao. Rice mixtures consisted of two- or three-row strips of cultivar Dinorado, a cultivar with higher value but lower yield, and high-yielding cultivar UPL Ri-5. Rice and mungbean intercropping treatments consisted of different combinations of two- or three-row strips of rice and mungbean. We used generalized linear mixed models to evaluate the yield of each crop alone and in the mixture or intercropping treatments, as well as a land equivalent ratio for yield, and weed biomass, the severity of panicle blast, brown spot, and brown leaf spot, and rice bug abundance. We also analyzed the yield ranking of each cropping system across site-year combinations to determine mean relative performance and yield stability. When weighted by their relative economic value, UPL Ri-5 had the highest mean performance, but with decreasing performance in low-yielding environments. A rice and mungbean intercropping system had the second highest performance, tied with high-value Dinorado but without decreasing performance in low-yielding environments. Rice and mungbean intercropped with rubber have been adapted by farmers in the Arakan Valley.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2505/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Plant Science'], [u'University of Southern Mindanao', u'Department of Plant Pathology, Kansas State University', u'Department of Statistics, Kansas State University', u'International Rice Research Institute', u'Plant Pathology Department, Oregon State University', u'Genetics and Biotechnology Division, International Rice Research Institute', u'Institute for Sustainable Food Systems, University of Florida', u'Plant Pathology Department, University of Florida', u'Emerging Pathogens Institute, University of Florida']]
[u'From science gateways to commercial solutions', ['Tamas Kiss', 'Gabor Terstyanszky'], u'2016-10-08', u'The European CloudSME project that incorporated 24 European SMEs, besides five academic partners, has finished its funded phase in March 2016. This presentation will provide a summary of the results of the project, and will analyze the challenges and differences when developing \u201cSME Gateways\u201d, when compared to \u201cScience Gateways\u201d. CloudSME started in 2013 with the aim to develop a cloud-based simulation platform for manufacturing and engineering SMEs. The project was based around industry use-cases, five of which were incorporated in the project from the start, and seven additional ones that were added as an outcome of an open call in January 2015. CloudSME utilized science gateway related technologies, such as the commercial CloudBroker Platform and the WS-PGRADE/gUSE Gateway Framework that were developed in the preceding SCI-BUS project. As most important outcome, the project successfully implemented 12 industry quality demonstrators that showcase how SMEs in the manufacturing and engineering sector can utilize cloud-based simulation services. Some of these solutions are already market-ready and currently being rolled out by the software vendor companies. Some others require further fine-tuning and the implementation of commercial interfaces before being put into the market.\nThe CloudSME use-cases came from a very wide application spectrum. The project implemented, for example, an open marketplace for micro-breweries to optimize their production and distribution processes, an insole design validation service to be used by podiatrists and shoe manufacturers, a generic stock management solution for manufacturing SMEs, and also several \u201cclassical\u201d high-performance computing case-studies, such as fluid dynamics simulations for model helicopter design, and dual-fuel internal combustion engine simulation. As the project generated significant impact and interest in the manufacturing sector, 10 CloudSME stakeholders established a follow-up company called CloudSME UG for the future commercialization of the results.\nBesides the success stories, this talk would also like to highlight the difficulties when transferring the outcomes of an academic research project to real commercial applications. The different mindset and approach of academic and industry partners presented a real challenge for the CloudSME project, with some interesting and valuable lessons learnt. The academic way of supporting SMEs did not always work well with the rather different working practices and culture of many participants. Also, the quality of support regarding operational solutions required by the SMEs is well beyond the typical support services academic institutions are prepared for. Finally, a clear lack of trust in academic solutions when compared to commercial solutions was also imminent. The talk will highlight some of these challenges underpinned by the implementation of the CloudSME use-cases.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2504/', ['Distributed and Parallel Computing', 'Scientific Computing and Simulation'], [u'Centre for Parallel Computing, University of Westminster', u'Centre for Parallel computing, University of Westminster']]
