[u'Demonstration of an open source platform for reproducible comparison of predictive models', ['Neeraj Bokde', 'Kishore Kulat'], u'2016-07-05', u'This paper discusses about a tool PredictTestbench, which is an R package which provides a testbench to do comparison of prediction methods. This package compares a proposed time series prediction method with other default methods like Autoregressive integrated moving average (ARIMA) and Pattern Sequence based Forecasting (PSF). The testbench is not limited to these methods. It allows user to add or remove multiple numbers of methods in the existing methods in the study. By default, testbench compares different imputation methods considering different error metrics RMSE, MAE or MAPE. Along with this, it facilitates user to add new error metrics as per requirements. The simplicity of the package usage and significant reduction in efforts and time consumption in state of art procedure, adds valuable advantage to it. The aim of the testbench is reduce the efforts for coding, experiments on output visualization and time for different steps involved in such study. This paper explains the use of all functions in PredictTestbench package with the demonstration of examples.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2251/', ['Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Data Science', 'Scientific Computing and Simulation', 'Software Engineering', 'Visual Analytics'], [u'Department of Electronics and Communication, Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology, Nagpur, India']]
[u'De novo assembly of Chinese forest musk deer (Moschus berezovskii) transcriptome from Next-Generation mRNA Sequencing', ['Zhongxian Xu', 'Hang Jie', 'Binlong Chen', 'Uma Gaur', 'Mingyao Yang', 'Nan Wu', 'Jian Gao', 'Pinming Li', 'Guijun Zhao', 'Dejun Zeng', 'Diyan Li'], u'2016-07-05', u'Musk secretion in male musk deer is regarded as a propitious mode of sexual election to attract a greater number of females. However, the genetic mechanisms of musk secretion are still poorly understood and unresolved making it necessary to elucidate the possible genetic mechanisms of musk formation. In the present study, we used heart and musk gland tissues from a male musk deer for next-generation mRNA sequencing, integrated with de novo assembly, unigenes annotation and differentially expressed genes analysis. A total of 239,383 transcripts and 208,730 unigenes were obtained from 2 pooled RNA samples. Annotated analysis indicated steroid compound metabolism (steroid biosynthesis, steroid hormone biosynthesis, aldosterone-regulated sodium reabsorption, terpenoid backbone biosynthesis) related to musk formation were annotated to many pathways; relevant genes were identified as well. In addition, 8,986 differentially expressed genes (6,068 up- and 2,198 down-regulated) between heart and musk gland were identified, among them, steroid component metabolism were abundant. Further exploration of functional enrichment analysis showed that pathways involved in musk secretion were up-regulated in musk gland compared with heart, especially steroid biosynthesis and terpenoid backbone biosynthesis whose metabolic productions were key components of musk. We identified several candidate genes such as DHCR7, DHCR24, NSDHL, CYP3A5, FDFT1, FDPS and HMGCL which were closely involved in metabolism of steroid, terpenoid and ketone bodies. Our data are expected to represent the most comprehensive sequence resource available for the forest musk deer so far, and provide a basis for further research on molecular genetics and functional genomics of musk secretion.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2252/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Bioinformatics', 'Genetics', 'Genomics', 'Zoology'], [u'Farm Animal Genetic Resources Exploration and Innovation Key Laboratory of Sichuan Province, Sichuan Agricultural University', u'Laboratory of Medicinal Animal, Chongqing Institute of Medicinal Plant Cultivation']]
[u'QGIS geoprocessing model to simplify first level seismic microzonation analysis', ['Giuseppe Cosentino', 'Francesco Pennica'], u'2016-07-05', u'The seismic microzonation evaluate the seismic hazard at the local scale proposing to identify areas of territory characterized by homogeneous seismic behaviors. The first level of seismic microzoning has the purpose of defining the lithological properties and geometry of geological units that characterize these portions of territory (microzones). The scope of this work is to contribute to the creation of a geoprocessing methodology for topographical, geological, geophysical and geo-technical data aimed at level 1 seismic microzonation map drafting. A QGIS geoprocessing tool was designed to automate one of the analysis commonly performed for the creation of level 1 seismic microzonation maps, in particular to identify unstable zones as polygon features. The result is a polygon layer with areas prone to instability due to a slope value greater than 15 degrees.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2250/', ['Spatial and Geographic Information Systems'], [u'Institute of Environmental Geology and Geoengineering (IGAG), Italian National Research Council (CNR)']]
[u'Are controversies in science driven by randomness and misbeliefs?', ['Marlena Siwiak', 'Tomasz Wyszomirski', 'Piotr Zielenkiewicz'], u'2016-07-05', u'Recent years have brought about the realisation of an irreproducibility crisis in science, which may have numerous causes, including common standards of statistical analysis. For decades, the methodological paradigm of null hypothesis significance testing (NHST) has remained under harsh, yet rather ineffective criticism. Here, we show that the vast majority of contradictions between the results of distinct studies may be fictitious, resulting from misbeliefs about NHST. To exemplify how they appear, we provide extensive reanalyses of results from high-profile literature and reveal statistical uncertainties that customarily remained obscured by the NHST paradigm. Widespread awareness of these uncertainties accompanied with quantitative interpretation of the results is the first step in assessing the actual scale of the irreproducibility problem and eradicating it.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2249/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Science and Medical Education', 'Statistics'], [u'Institute of Biochemistry and Biophysics, Polish Academy of Sciences', u'Faculty of Biology, Biological and Chemical Research Centre, University of Warsaw', u'Faculty of Biology, Laboratory of Plant Molecular Biology, University of Warsaw']]
[u'Integrating GIScience and Crop Science datasets: a study involving genetic, geographic and environmental data', ['Roberto Santos', 'Adam Algar', 'Richard Field', 'Sean Mayes'], u'2016-07-05', u'Sharing and reusing data in research is a welcome and encouraged practice since it maximises the scientific outcomes given limited financial, material and human resources. Interdisciplinary research is usually benefitted from this practice, reuniting researchers and data from two or more disciplines to advance fundamental understanding or tackle problems whose solution is beyond the limit of an individual body of knowledge. In this work, we discuss the challenges of associating localisation with other data types, particularly genetic data, in a project involving Crop Science and Geospatial Information Science disciplines that aim to improve the understanding of how geographical, environmental and anthropocentric factors affect the genetic variation in a neglected and underutilised crop called Bambara groundnut.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2248/', ['Computational Biology', 'Spatial and Geographic Information Systems'], [u'School of Geography, University of Nottingham', u'Nottingham Geospatial Institute, University of Nottingham', u'Plant and Crop Sciences, University of Nottingham']]
[u'The Open Data GeoPortal of the Lamma Consortium', ['Manuela Corongiu', 'Riccardo Mari', 'Raffaella Ferrari', 'Lorenzo Bottai', 'Valentina Grasso', 'Federica Zabini', 'Luca Fibbi', 'Daniele Grifoni', 'Claudio Tei', 'Franceso Pasi', 'Bernardo Gozzini', 'Simone Giannecchini'], u'2016-07-05', u'The new Lamma Open Data platform (http://dati.lamma.toscana.it) allows data download related to information delivered / managed by the Consortium, encouraging the reuse both at technical and legal level. The datasets, over 220, belong to the weather forecast and geospatial topics above all, but they are in continuous updating, both spatial and no spatial (such as administrative documentation). Lamma open data platform integrates in a harmonised interface, most off the spatial dataset already available through the Lamma geoportal (http://geoportale.lamma.rete.toscana.it/MapStore/public/), now available for download as open data. The particularity of meteorological information is their organization in models, archives and formats according to the type of information, source of acquisition and level of elaboration. These formats are not all functional or directly manageable in their entirety, as data to be made available and immediately accessible. The datasets therefore require a preliminary phase of evaluation and analysis of the contents to identify the most appropriate elements for publication via filters and elaborations that maintain the significance of the variables to be highlighted. A synergic and integrated infrastructure for spatial data has been carried out through open source softwares. The LaMMA Geoportal integrates, in a single simple but powerful interface, the functionalities of research, display and download of the available data. This objective is to provide a ready-to-use tool for all users who do not intend to connect directly to the services offered or to download (and therefore reutilize) the data: in this case we relied on the software Open Source MapStore. The open data platform is directly connected to the Geonetwork metadata catalogue that in turn automatically provide a real-time ingestion of datasets in geoportal. The Lamma open data infrastructure has been implemented by the use of CKAN software. All the datasets are made available according to the CC-BY license - Attribution Creative Commons. That choice will allow an easier federation with Open Tuscany (http://dati.toscana.it/), the open data portal of Tuscany Regional Government that until now has hosted, as supplementary task, some Lamma Consortium datasets. The open data infrastructure has been implemented thanks to the Life+IMAGINE European contribution and with the support of the Geosolutions company.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2247/', ['Databases', 'Spatial and Geographic Information Systems', 'World Wide Web and Web Science'], [u'Consorzio LaMMA', u'Ibimet, CNR', u'Institute of Biometeorology, CNR, Italian National Research Council', u'GeoSolutions SAS']]
[u'The open geohazard widget to perform environmental risk analysis', ['Carlo Cipolloni', 'Matija Krivic', 'Matevz Novak', 'Marco Pantaloni'], u'2016-07-05', u'In the framework of European project eENVplus (hhtp://www.eenvplus.eu) the Geological Survey of Italy and Geological Survey of Slovenia in collaboration with some technical partners developed a pilot to perform several geohazard analyses in the cross-border area. Several web processing services to perform hazard probability map have been developed using open-source software and a javaScript client widget based on Cesium1.11 to manage the pilot has been designed as well. The final data have been prepared in INSPIRE compliance format to be in line with European legislation and directive and data are provided with an open licence.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2246/', ['Data Science', 'Spatial and Geographic Information Systems', 'World Wide Web and Web Science'], [u'Geological Survey of Italy, ISPRA', u'GeoZS - Geological Survey of Slovenia']]
[u'Open source tools to support Integrated Coastal Management and Maritime Spatial Planning', ['Stefano Menegon', 'Alessandro Sarretta', 'Andrea Barbanti', 'Elena Gissi', 'Chiara Venier'], u'2016-07-05', u'This paper describes an open source suite of libraries and tools to support research activities on marine and coastal environment. The suite was initially implemented for the ADRIPLAN portal, an integrated web platform aimed at supporting Maritime Spatial Planning (MSP) activities and other activities concerning the managing of marine environment for the Adriatic-Ionian region. The main elements of the implemented solutions are: i) a GeoNode implementation for sharing geospatial datasets and maps; ii) a new python library (RectifiedGrid) that facilitates the work with geographical grid data; iii) a new python library (MSPTools) to perform spatial analysis and assessment of human uses, pressures and the potential impact of maritime and coastal activities on the environment; iv) a new GeoNode plugin (called GeoNodeMSPTools) that provides interactive widgets to set up the analyses and to visualize and explore the results. The MSP Tools and the developed software have been released as FOSS under the GPL3 license and are currently under further development.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2245/', ['Data Science', 'Spatial and Geographic Information Systems'], [u'Institute of Marine Sciences, National Research Council', u'Department of Design and Planning in Complex Environment, University IUAV of Venice']]
[u'Oscillation of water table due to rainfall: an experience of modeling in GIS', ['Bianca Federici', 'Rossella Bovolenta', 'Dario Balestrero', 'Roberto V Passalacqua'], u'2016-07-05', u'A physically-based Integrated Hydrological-Geotechnical model (IHG) able to assess the rainfall-induced landslide susceptibility was developed, refined and applied in GIS environment along the past years (Passalacqua 2002; Federici et al. 2014; Bovolenta et al. 2016), showing its reliability. It is a useful instrument to landslide susceptibility evaluations and land-use planning over wide areas. The present paper focuses on the modeling of water table oscillation due to rainfall, comparing different hydrological models.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2244/', ['Scientific Computing and Simulation', 'Spatial and Geographic Information Systems', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Department of Civil, Chemical and Environmental Engineering, University of Genoa']]
[u'QGIS plugin or web app? Lessons learned in the development of a 3D georeferencer', ['Timothee Produit', 'Jens Ingensand', 'Gillian Milani'], u'2016-07-05', u'Collections of historical images are currently being scanned to stop their degradation and to enable a numeric exploitation. These collections have a high cultural, artistic and scientific value. However, they are not fully exploited because the photographs do not have a georeference (geographic information cannot be extracted from the picture) and are poorly labeled (makes searching in a database inefficient). During the last years, we developed a QGIS plugin and a web app dedicated to the georeferencing of photographs and the linking of images with spatial data. In this paper, we discuss the technologies involved and compare both implementations. The results suggest that both approaches are valuable but provide different advantages in term of target users and development effort.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2243/', ['Spatial and Geographic Information Systems', 'Programming Languages'], [u'Institute G2C, University of Applied Sciences Western Switzerland', u'Department of Geography, University of Z\xfcrich']]
[u'First record of Bertrana striolata (Arachnida: Araneae: Araneidae) in Amazonian Ecuador', ['Diego F Cisneros-Heredia', 'Ivan Carrazco'], u'2016-07-05', u'We present the first record of the orb-weaver spider Bertrana striolata from Amazonian lowlands (east of the Andes) in Ecuador, based on a specimen collected at the Tiputini Biodiversity Station, province of Orellana, Ecuador. In Ecuador, B. striolata was previously known from a single locality on the Pacific lowlands (4 km NE of the town of Pedro Vicente Maldonado, 550 m, province of Pichincha). To the best of our knowledge, this record also corresponds to the second locality of the species in the country, and the first record for the province of Orellana.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2242/', ['Biodiversity', 'Biogeography', 'Entomology', 'Zoology'], [u'Colegio de Ciencias Biol\xf3gicas y Ambientales COCIBA, Laboratorio de Zoolog\xeda Terrestre, Universidad San Francisco de Quito', u"Department of Geography, King's College London, University of London", u'Museo Ecuatoriano de Ciencias Naturales del Instituto Nacional de Biodiversidad', u'Colegio de Ciencias Biol\xf3gicas y Ambientales, Universidad San Francisco de Quito']]
[u'Weather events identification in social media streams: tools to detect their evidence in Twitter', ['Valentina Grasso', 'Imad Zaza', 'Federica Zabini', 'Gianni Pantaleo', 'Paolo Nesi', 'Alfonso Crisci'], u'2016-07-05', u'Severe weather impact identification and monitoring through social media data is a good challenge for data science. In last years we assisted to an increase of natural disasters, also due to climate change. Many works showed that during such events people tend to share specific messages by of mean of social media platforms, especially Twitter. Not only they contribute to"situational" awareness also improving the dissemination of information during emergency but can be used to assess social impact of crisis events. We present in this work preliminary findings concerning how temporal distribution of weather related messages may help the identification of severe events that impacted a community. Severe weather events are recognizable by observing the synchronization of twitter streams volumes concerning extractions by using different but semantically graduate terms and hash-tags including the specific containing geo-content names. Impacting events seems immediately recognizable by graphical representation of weather streams and when the time-line show a specific parallel-wise pattern that we named "Half Onion Shape". Different but weather semantically linked twitter streams could exhibits different magnitude, in order to their term popularity, but they show, when a weather event occurs, the same temporal relative maximum. In reason of to these interesting indications, that needs to be confirmed through more deeper analysis, and of the great use of social media, as Twitter, during crisis events it\'s becoming fundamental to have a suite of suitable tools to monitor social media data. For Twitter data a comprehensive suite of tools is presented: the DISIT-Twitter Vigilance Platform for twitter data retrieve,management and visualization.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2241/', ['Data Science', 'Emerging Technologies', 'Natural Language and Speech', 'Network Science and Online Social Networks'], [u'CNR, Italian National Research Council, Institute of Biometeorology', u'LaMMA Consortium, Tuscany Region - CNR', u'DISIT Lab, Distributed Technologies Lab - Dep. of Information Engineering (DINFO), University of Florence', u'Ibimet, CNR', u'Italian National Research Council, IBIMET - Istitute of Biometeorology']]
[u'Integrated method for cities air temperature estimation', ['Jeremy Bernard', 'Marjorie Musy', 'Isabelle Calmet', 'Erwan Bocher', 'Pascal Keravec'], u'2016-07-05', u'Urban Heat Island (UHI) is defined as the air temperature difference between the city and its surrounding areas. This phenomenon varies spatially (depending on the type of urban fabric constituting each neighborhood) and temporally (depending on the time of the day, on the season and on the weather conditions). This contribution proposes a methodology to model the UHI spatially and temporally using simple models built with free and open sources softwares (orbisGIS and python language). Ten air temperature sensors have been implemented in several neighborhoods of the Nantes urban area (a west coast french conurbation). The difference of UHI is observed and modeled for each of those sites. Spatial differences are modeled according to geographical indicators characterizing the urban surroundings of each temperature station. Temporal variations are modeled according to weather conditions (such as wind speed, solar radiations, etc.) for different time scales : diurnal and nocturnal differences, daily variations and seasonal variations. The objective is to create a method which may be applied for any city in France. Geographical indicators are then calculated with OrbisGIS software from geographical data which are homogeneous and available at the french territory scale. Wheather conditions are recorded by MeteoFrance stations, which follow the same standard for the measurement of climatic parameters all around France. Climatic data analysis and modeling are performed with Python language using libraries such as Pandas and StatsModels. Modeled established according to the Nantes temperature dataset are verificated according to new air temperature networks implemented in the city of Nantes as well as other cities of west France (Angers, La Roche-sur-Yon).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2240/', ['Data Science', 'Scientific Computing and Simulation', 'Spatial and Geographic Information Systems'], [u'Centre de recherche m\xe9thodologique d\u2019architecture - UMR CNRS 1563', u"Agence De l'Environnement et de la Ma\xeetrise de l'Energie", u'FR CNRS 2488, Institut de Recherche en Sciences et Techniques de la Ville', u'Laboratoire de recherche en Hydrodynamique, \xc9nerg\xe9tique et Environnement Atmosph\xe9rique, UMR CNRS 6598', u'Laboratoire Lab-STICC - UMR CNRS 6285']]
[u'Mapping and analysis of pressures on water resources from agriculture to target water and agriculture policies', ['Marianna Ferrigno', 'Marco Martello', 'Gianfranco Giannerini', 'Veronica Manganiello', 'Daniela Quarato', 'Chiara Antinoro', 'Simona Capone', 'Antonio Pepe', 'Raffaella Zucaro'], u'2016-07-05', u'A recent work carried out by CREA (ex INEA) compared spatial analysis of the main problems concerning the use of water resources for irrigation in Italian River basin districts (RBD) with the policy measures for water resources and agriculture, in order to verify the relevance of planning to address specific regional sensitivities. The bases for the policy analysis was River basin management plans (RBMPs), in updating, and proposal of Regulation for rural development, not yet approved at the time. The spatial and statistical analysis was done, for each Italian RBD, through cluster analysis method using specific indicators, calculated using quantifiable and comparable public database (ISTAT, ISPRA, SIGRIAN) and representing qualitative and quantitative pressures on waters and environmental constraint. The aim of this work is the updating of spatial analysis, with reference to recently approved RBMPs and new regional RDPs 2014-2020, based on the Regulation for rural development 1305/2013. The update of the work involves the use of additional indicators through the analysis of new data made available by the updating of RBMPs such as, for example, the qualitative and quantitative status of water bodies. Moreover, it is now possible to know the real measures put in place by each RDP, instead of possible measures to activate, and so to verify the real match between policies. Finally, the cluster analysis was conducted at national level instead of at RBD level, so that the magnitude of indicators is the same for all RBD and, then, comparable. The preliminary results of the updating, show a different variability of clusters trough national territory, with lower variability in Central and Southern Italy and higher variability in Northern Italy.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2239/', ['Spatial and Geographic Information Systems'], [u'Research Center for Policies and bioeconomy, Council for Agricultural Research and Economics']]
