[u'Foliar fungal communities strongly differ between habitat patches in a landscape mosaic', ['Thomas Fort', 'Cecile Robin', 'Xavier Capdevielle', 'Laurent Deliere', 'Corinne Vacher'], u'2016-09-20', u'Dispersal events between habitat patches in a landscape mosaic can structure ecological communities and influence the functioning of agrosystems. Here we investigated whether short-distance dispersal events between vineyard and forest patches shape foliar fungal communities. We hypothesized that these communities homogenize between habitats over the course of the growing season, particularly along habitat edges, because of aerial dispersal of spores.\nWe monitored the richness and composition of foliar and airborne fungal communities over the season, along transects perpendicular to edges between vineyard and forest patches, using Illumina sequencing of the ITS2 region.\nIn contrast to our expectation, foliar fungal communities in vineyards and forest patches increasingly differentiate over the growing season, even along habitat edges. Moreover, the richness of foliar fungal communities in grapevine drastically decreased over the growing season, in contrast to that of forest trees. The composition of airborne communities did not differ between habitats. The composition of oak foliar fungal communities change between forest edge and centre.\nThese results suggest that dispersal events between habitat patches are not major drivers of foliar fungal communities at the landscape scale. Selective pressures exerted in each habitat by the host plant, the microclimate and the agricultural practices play a greater role, and might account for the differentiation of foliar fugal communities between habitats.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2458/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Ecology', 'Microbiology', 'Mycology', 'Plant Science'], [u'BIOGECO, UMR 1202, INRA, Universit\xe9 de Bordeaux', u'SAVE, UMR 1065, INRA, ISVV, Universit\xe9 de Bordeaux, INRA', u'BIOGECO, UMR 1202, INRA, Universit\xe9 de Bordeaux']]
[u'Brain transcriptomes of harbor seals demonstrate gene expression patterns of animals undergoing a metabolic disease and a viral infection', ['Stephanie M Rosales', 'Rebecca L Vega Thurber'], u'2016-09-20', u'Diseases of marine mammals can be difficult to diagnose because of the life history and protected status of these animals. Stranded marine mammals have been a particularly useful resource to discover and comprehend the diseases that plague these top predators. Additionally, advancements in high-throughput sequencing (HTS) has contributed to the discovery of novel pathogens in these animals. In this study, we use a combination of HTS and stranded harbor seals (Phoca vitulina) to better understand a known and unknown brain disease. To do this, we used transcriptomics to evaluate brain tissues from seven neonatal harbor seals that expired from an unknown cause of death (UCD) and compared them to four neonatal harbor seals that had confirmed phocine herpesvirus (PhV-1) infections in the brain. Comparing these two disease states we found that UCD animals showed a significant abundance of fatty acid metabolic transcripts in their brain tissue, thus we speculate that a fatty acid metabolic dysregulation contributed to the death of these animals. Furthermore, we were able to describe the response of four young harbor seals with PhV-1 infections in the brain. PhV-1 infected animals showed a significant ability to mount an innate and adaptive immune response, especially to combat viral infections. Our data also suggests that PhV-1 can hijack host pathways for DNA packaging and exocytosis. This is the first study to use transcriptomics in marine mammals to understand host and viral interactions and assess the death of stranded marine mammals with an unknown disease. Furthermore, we show the value of applying transcriptomics on stranded marine mammals for disease characterization.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2457/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Marine Biology', 'Microbiology', 'Veterinary Medicine', 'Virology'], [u'Department of Microbiology, Oregon State University']]
