[u'Seasonal changes in fish assemblage structure at a shallow seamount in the Gulf of California', ['Salvador J Jorgensen', 'A. Peter Klimley', 'Arturo Muhlia-Melo', 'Steven G Morgan'], u'2016-07-19', u'Seamounts have generally been identified as locations that can promote elevated productivity, biomass and predator biodiversity. These properties attract seamount-associated fisheries where elevated harvests can be obtained relative to surrounding areas. There exists large variation in the geological and oceanographic environment among the thousands of locations that fall within the broad definition of seamount. Global seamount surveys have revealed that not all seamounts are hotspots of biodiversity, and there remains a strong need to understand the mechanisms that underlie variation in species richness observed. We examined the process of fish species assembly at El Bajo Espiritu Santo (EBES) seamount in the Gulf of California over a five-year study period. To effectively quantify the relative abundance of fast-moving and schooling fishes in a \u2018blue water\u2019 habitat, we developed a simplified underwater visual census (UVC) methodology and analysis framework suitable for this setting and applicable to future studies in similar environments. We found correlations between seasonally changing community structure and variability in oceanographic conditions. Individual species responses to thermal habitat at EBES revealed three distinct assemblages, a \u2018summer assemblage\u2019 tracking warmer overall temperature, a \u2018winter assemblage\u2019 correlated with cooler temperature, and a \u2018year-round assemblage\u2019 with no significant response to temperature. Species richness was greatest in spring, when cool and warm water masses stratified the water column and a greater number of species from all three assemblages co-occurred. We discuss our findings in the context of potential mechanisms that could account for predator biodiversity at shallow seamounts.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2303/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Conservation Research Department, Monterey Bay Aquarium', u'Department of Wildlife, Fish, & Conservation Biology, University of California, Davis', u'Department of Fisheries Ecology, Centro de Investigaciones Biol\xf3gicas del Noroeste S. C.', u'Bodega Marine Lab, University of California, Davis']]
[u'Effect of strati\ufb01cation and gibberellic acid on epicotyl dormancy release in seeds of Yunnanopilia longistaminea (Opiliaceae)', ['Guan-song Yang', 'Liu Yang', 'Yue-hua Wang', 'Shi-kang Shen'], u'2016-07-19', u'Yunnanopilia longistaminea is an endangered monotypic species belonging to Opiliaceae. This edible plant is an important germplasm source with a high economic value in China. The seed dormancy and germination of Opiliaceae species have been rarely investigated. This study examined the effects of scarification, soaking in gibberellic acid, and dehydration on the seed germination of Y. longistaminea. Results indicated that the seed germination of this species involves two stages: radicle emergence and epicotyls (shoot) emergence. During radicle emergence, the optimum temperatures were 28 \xb0C and 28 \xb0C/20 \xb0C. Seed moisture content and viability decreased as dehydration occurred. Thus, the seeds may be recalcitrant. The optimum GA3 solution for the seeds undergoing shoot emergence was 100 mg\xb7L\u22121. The percentages of shoot emergence in 7 and 14 days of strati\ufb01cation at 5 \xb0C were slightly higher than those in other groups. This study is the first to describe epicotyl dormancy in Y. longistaminea  seeds. From the seed grow to the seedling of Y. longistaminea subjected to a autumn\u2192winter\u2192spring temperature process in nature conditions. Warm and cold strati\ufb01cation can alleviate radicle and epicotyl dormancy, respectively. The duration of cold strati\ufb01cation also significantly affects the epicotyl dormancy release of Y. longistaminea. The researches on the seeds breaking methods: warm(28\xb0C/20\xb0C)\u2192cold(5\xb0C)\u2192GA3(100mg\xb7L\u22121)\u2192warm(28\xb0C/20\xb0C).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2302/', ['Plant Science'], [u'School of Life Sciences, Yunnan University']]
[u'A cellular automata to simulate the growth and death of a cell culture', ['Giuseppe Guerrisi', 'Deborah Giordano', 'Anna Marabotti', 'Giancarlo Raiconi', 'Roberto Tagliaferri'], u'2016-07-19', u'Motivation: The term \u201ccell culture\u201d is generally referred to the process by which some cells, often derived from multicellular organisms or tissues, or tumoral cell lines, are grown under controlled conditions outside of their natural environment. This system is very useful for different applications, for example to study physiological phenomena, or for the production of some useful molecules, or for testing the toxicity of some compounds. The life of the cells in culture is conditioned by many elements. Apart from physical factors such as pH and temperature, the growth of a cell culture is conditioned by its density: cells compete for the nutrients and growth factors available and die when they are exhausted. Moreover, dead cells release in the medium some toxic factors that, in their turn, can lead the surrounding cells to death. Additionally, the presence of exogenous toxic factors in the medium can induce cell death We present a cellular automata developed in order to reproduce the growth of a cell culture of a particular human cell line, Caco-2, derived from human colorectal adenocarcinoma cells. The cellular automata has been developed in order to reproduce the phenotype of Caco-2 cells, their cell cycle with all phases, and the influence of 4-nonylphenol (4-NP), an environmental pollutant, on this model system.\nMethods: The cellular automata developed is a grid whose dimensions reproduce a cell counting Burker chamber. Two matrices have been used to take into account, respectively, the global duration of the cellular growth and the phase of the cell cycle for each cell. Two vectors are also introduced to take into account the length of each phase and their variability range. A shuffling algorithm is used to distribute the starting cells on the chamber, then the algorithm starts by assigning a variable lag phase before reproducing the start of the cell cycle with the entering of the cells in G1 phase. All the following phases of the cell cycle are characterized by a fixed length (in minutes) + 10% variability. The cell death is described by a logarithmic function that is influenced by different factors: culture density, cellular senescence, presence of dead cells in the environment of each cell, introduction of a toxic substance. The application was developed in a stand-alone manner and has been written in Java using the OpenGL library integrated in Java.\nResults The application is made by an intuitive GUI to set several parameters useful for the simulation (see Figure, panel A). In order to highlight the different cell cycle phases, different colors were attributed to each phase. The cellular automata is evolving in the space and in the time reproducing the four steps of the cell cycle (G1, S, G2, M). The evolution of the simulated cell growth reproduces the phenomena present in a real Caco-2 cell culture. (Abstract truncated at 3,000 characters - the full version is available in the pdf file)', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2301/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Chemistry and Biology "A. Zambelli", University of Salerno', u'Department of Information Engineering and Applied Mathematics, University of Salerno', u'NeuRoNe Lab, Department of Business Science - Management and Innovation Systems, University of Salerno']]
[u'Genome-wide association of functional traits linked with Campylobacter jejuni survival from farm to fork', ['Koji Yahara', 'Guillaume Meric', 'Aidan J Taylor', 'Stefan PW de Vries', 'Susan Murray', 'Ben Pascoe', 'Leonardos Mageiros', 'Alicia Torralbo', 'Ana Vidal', 'Anne M Ridley', 'Sho Komukai', 'Helen Wimalarathna', 'Alison J Cody', 'Frances M Colles', 'Noel D McCarthy', 'David Harris', 'James E Bray', 'Keith A Jolley', 'Martin CJ Maiden', 'Stephen D Bentley', 'Julian Parkhill', 'Christopher D Bayliss', 'Andrew J Grant', 'Duncan Maskell', 'Xavier Didelot', 'David J Kelly', 'Samuel K Sheppard'], u'2016-07-19', u'Campylobacter jejuni is a major cause of bacterial gastroenteritis worldwide, primarily associated with the consumption of contaminated poultry. C. jejuni lineages vary in host range and prevalence in human infection, suggesting differences in survival throughout the poultry processing chain. From 7,343 MLST-characterised isolates, we sequenced 600 C. jejuni and C. coli isolates from various stages of poultry processing and clinical cases. A genome-wide association study (GWAS) in C. jejuni ST-21 and ST-45 complexes identified genetic elements over-represented in clinical isolates that increased in frequency throughout the poultry processing chain. Disease-associated SNPs were distinct in these complexes, sometimes organised in haplotype blocks. The function of genes containing associated elements was investigated, demonstrating roles for cj1377c in formate metabolism, nuoK in aerobic survival and oxidative respiration, and cj1368-70 in nucleotide salvage. This work demonstrates the utility of GWAS for investigating transmission in natural zoonotic pathogen populations and provides evidence that major C. jejuni lineages have distinct genotypes associated with survival, within the host specific niche, from farm to fork.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2300/', ['Genetics', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Bacteriology II, National Institute of Infectious Diseases', u'The Milner Centre for Evolution, Department of Biology and Biochemistry, University of Bath', u'Department of Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, University of Sheffield', u'Department of Veterinary Medicine, University of Cambridge', u'Medical School, Institute of Life Science 1, Swansea University', u'Animal and Plant Health Agency (APHA)', u'Graduate school of medicine, Kurume University', u'Department of Zoology, University of Oxford', u'Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick', u'Welcome Trust Genome Campus, Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute', u'Pathogen Genomics, Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute', u'Department of Genetics, University of Leicester', u'Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology, Imperial College']]
