[u'Whole-genome single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) marker discovery and association analysis with the eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) content by Genotyping-By-Sequencing (GBS) in teleost Larimichthys crocea', ['Shijun Xiao', 'Panpan Wang', 'Linsong Dong', 'Yaguang Zhang', 'Zhaofang Han', 'Qiurong Wang', 'Zhiyong Wang'], u'2016-06-09', u'Whole-genome single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) markers are valuable genetic resources for the association and conservation studies. Genome-wide SNP development in many teleost species are still challenging because of the genome complexity and the cost of re-sequencing. GBS provided an efficient reduced representative method to squeeze cost for SNP detection; however, most of recent GBS applications were reported on plant organisms. In this work, we used an EcoRI-NlaIII based GBS protocol to teleost large yellow croaker, an important commercial fish in China and East-Asia, and reported the first whole-genome SNP development for the species. 69,845 high quality SNP markers that evenly distributed along genome were detected in at least 80% of 500 individuals. Nearly 95% randomly selected genotypes were successfully validated by SequenomMassARRAYassay. The association studies with the muscle EPA and DHA content discovered 39 significant SNP markers, contributing as high up to ~63% genetic variance that explained by all markers. Functional genes that involved in fat digestion and absorption pathway were identified, such as APOB, CRAT and OSBPL10. Notably, PPT2 Gene, previously identified in the association study of the plasma n-3 and n-6 polyunsaturated fatty acid level in human, was re-discovered in large yellow croaker. Our study verified that EcoRI-NlaIII based GBS could produce quality SNP markers in a cost-efficient manner in teleost genome. The developed SNP markers and the EPA/DHA associated SNP loci provided invaluable resources for the population structure, conservation genetics and genomic selection of large yellow croaker and other fish organisms.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2116/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Biodiversity', 'Genomics'], [u'Fisheries College, Jimei University']]
[u'A heritability-based comparison of methods used to cluster 16S rRNA gene sequences into operational taxonomic units', ['Matthew A Jackson', 'Jordana T Bell', 'Tim D Spector', 'Claire J Steves'], u'2016-06-08', u'A variety of methods are available to collapse 16S rRNA gene sequencing reads to the operational taxonomic units (OTUs) used in microbiome analyses. A number of studies have aimed to compare the quality of the resulting OTUs. However, in the absence of a standard method to define and enumerate the different taxa within a microbial community, existing comparisons have been unable to compare the ability of clustering methods to generate units that accurately represent functional taxonomic segregation. We have previously demonstrated heritability of the microbiome and we propose this as a measure of each methods\u2019 ability to generate OTUs representing biologically relevant units. Our approach assumes that OTUs that best represent the functional units interacting with the hosts\u2019 properties will produce the highest heritability estimates. Using 1750 unselected individuals from the TwinsUK cohort, we compared 11 approaches to OTU clustering in heritability analyses. We find that de novo clustering methods produce more heritable OTUs than reference based approaches, with VSEARCH and SUMACLUST performing well. We also show that differences resulting from each clustering method are minimal once reads are collapsed by taxonomic assignment, although sample diversity estimates are clearly influenced by OTU clustering approach. These results should help the selection of sequence clustering methods in future microbiome studies, particularly for studies of human host-microbiome interactions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2115/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Ecology', 'Microbiology'], [u"Department of Twin Research & Genetic Epidemiology, King's College London, University of London"]]
[u'An exploration of the influence of diagonal dissociation and moderate changes in speed on locomotor parameters in trotting horses', ['Sarah Jane Hobbs', 'John E A Bertram', 'Hilary M Clayton'], u'2016-06-08', u'Background. Although the trot is described as a diagonal gait, contacts of the diagonal pairs of hooves are not usually perfectly synchronized. Although subtle, the timing dissociation between contacts of each diagonal pair could have consequences on gait dynamics and provide insight into the functional strategies employed. This study explores the mechanical effects of different diagonal dissociation patterns when speed was matched between individuals and how these effects link to moderate, natural changes in trotting speed. We anticipate that hind-first diagonal dissociation at contact increases with speed, diagonal dissociation at contact can reduce collision-based energy losses and predominant dissociation patterns will be evident within individuals.\nMethods. The study was performed in two parts: in the first 17 horses performed speed-matched trotting trials and in the second, 5 horses each performed 10 trotting trials that represented a range of individually preferred speeds. Standard motion capture provided kinematic data that were synchronized with ground reaction force (GRF) data from a series of force plates. The data were analyzed further to determine temporal, speed, GRF, postural, mass distribution, moment, and collision dynamics parameters.\nResults. Fore-first, synchronous, and hind-first dissociations were found in horses trotting at (3.3 m/s \xb1 10%). In these speed-matched trials, mean centre of pressure (COP) cranio-caudal location differed significantly between the three dissociation categories. The COP moved systematically and significantly (P=.001) from being more caudally located in hind-first dissociation (mean location = 0.41\xb10.04) through synchronous (0.36\xb10.02) to a more cranial location in fore-first dissociation (0.32\xb10.02). Dissociation patterns were found to influence function, posture, and balance parameters. Over a moderate speed range, peak vertical forelimb GRF had a strong relationship with dissociation time (R=.594; P<.01) and speed (R=.789; P<.01), but peak vertical hindlimb GRF did not have a significant relationship with dissociation time (R=.085; P>.05) or speed (R=.223; P=.023).\nDiscussion. The results indicate that at moderate speeds individual horses use dissociation patterns that allow them to maintain trunk pitch stability through management of the cranio-caudal location of the COP. During the hoof-ground collisions, reduced mechanical energy losses were found in hind-first dissociations compared to fully synchronous contacts. As speed increased, only forelimb vertical peak force increased so dissociations tended towards hind-first, which shifted the net COP caudally and balanced trunk pitching moments.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2114/', ['Zoology', 'Anatomy and Physiology', 'Kinesiology'], [u'Centre for Applied Sport and Exercise Sciences, University of Central Lancashire', u'Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University of Calgary', u'Sport Horse Science']]
[u'Human feeding biomechanics: performance, variation, and functional constraints', ['Justin A. Ledogar', 'Paul C. Dechow', 'Qian Wang', 'Poorva H Gharpure', 'Adam D. Gordon', 'Karen L. Baab', 'Amanda L. Smith', 'Gerhard W. Weber', 'Ian R. Grosse', 'Callum F. Ross', 'Brian G. Richmond', 'Barth W. Wright', 'Craig Byron', 'Stephen Wroe', 'David S. Strait'], u'2016-06-08', u'The evolution of the modern human (Homo sapiens) cranium is characterized by a reduction in the size of the feeding system, including reductions in the size of the facial skeleton, postcanine teeth, and the muscles involved in biting and chewing. The conventional view hypothesizes that gracilization of the human feeding system is related to a shift toward eating foods that were less mechanically challenging to consume and/or foods that were processed using tools before being ingested. This hypothesis predicts that human feeding systems should not be well-configured to produce forceful bites and that the cranium should be structurally weak. An alternate hypothesis states that the modern human face is adapted to generate and withstand high biting forces. We used finite element analysis (FEA) to test two opposing mechanical hypotheses: that compared to our closest living relative, chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes), the modern human craniofacial skeleton is 1) less well configured, or 2) better configured to generate and withstand high magnitude bite forces. We considered intraspecific variation in our examination of human feeding biomechanics by examining a sample of geographically diverse crania that differed notably in shape. We found that our biomechanical models of human crania had broadly similar mechanical behavior despite their shape variation and were, on average, less structurally stiff than the crania of chimpanzees during unilateral biting when loaded with physiologically-scaled muscle loads. Our results also show that modern humans are efficient producers of bite force, consistent with previous analyses. However, highly tensile reaction forces were generated at the working (biting) side jaw joint during unilateral molar bites in which the chewing muscles were recruited with bilateral symmetry. In life, such a configuration would have increased the risk of joint dislocation and constrained the maximum recruitment levels of the masticatory muscles on the balancing (non-biting) side of the head. Our results do not necessarily conflict with the hypothesis that anterior tooth (incisors, canines, premolars) biting could have been selectively important in humans, although the reduced size of the premolars in humans has been shown to increase the risk of tooth crown fracture. We interpret our results to suggest that human craniofacial evolution was probably not driven by selection for high magnitude unilateral biting, and that increased masticatory muscle efficiency in humans is likely to be a secondary byproduct of selection for some function unrelated to forceful biting behaviors. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that a shift to softer foods and/or the innovation of pre-oral food processing techniques relaxed selective pressures maintaining craniofacial features favoring forceful biting and chewing behaviors, leading to the characteristically small and gracile faces of modern humans.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2113/', ['Anthropology', 'Computational Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Anatomy and Physiology'], [u'Zoology Division, School of Environmental and Rural Science, University of New England', u'Department of Anthropology, State University of New York at Albany', u'Department of Biomedical Sciences, Texas A&M University Baylor College of Dentistry', u'Department of Biomedical Sciences, Baylor College of Dentistry', u'Department of Anatomy, Midwestern University', u'Department of Anthropology, Washington University in St. Louis', u'Department of Anthropology, University of Vienna', u'Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering, University of Massachusetts', u'Department of Organismal Biology & Anatomy, University of Chicago', u'Division of Anthropology, American Museum of Natural History', u'Department of Human Evolution, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology', u'Department of Anatomy, Kansas City University of Medicine and Biosciences', u'Department of Biology, Mercer University', u'FEARlab, Zoology Division, School of Environmental and Rural Science, University of New England']]
[u'How barriers shape freshwater fish distributions: a species distribution model approach', ['Mathias Kuemmerlen', 'Stefan Stoll', 'Peter Haase'], u'2016-06-08', u'Barriers, from dams to culverts, continue to be built globally despite their well-known negative effects on freshwater ecosystems. While large barriers strongly influence distribution through habitat fragmentation, the effects of smaller barriers on the distribution patterns of many fish species remains poorly studied. Obstruction metrics were calculated including different types and magnitudes of barriers considering upstream, downstream or barriers within a 10 km stream network distance. These were then included in species distribution models (SDMs) of 20 fish species and compared to predictions without barriers to understand their effects on fish distributions. Barriers were important for the predictions of many fish species with the metric upstream barriers being the most relevant barrier predictor across the fish community. With the inclusion of barriers, most species saw a reduction in their predicted range and habitat suitability decreased, suggesting habitat fragmentation and indicating a higher extirpation risk. Predictions from this SDM application point out how and where barriers influence fish distributions in the studied catchment. This species-specific and spatially-explicit information is highly valuable for target-oriented river restoration measures, biodiversity conservation efforts and catchment management in general.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2112/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Department of River Ecology and Conservation, Senckenberg Research Institute and Natural History Museum Frankfurt', u'Institute for Environmental Sciences, University of Koblenz-Landau', u'Faculty of Biology, University of Duisburg-Essen']]
[u'Talk the talk and walk the walk. Evaluation of autonomy in aging and Alzheimer Disease by simulating instrumental activities of daily living: The S-IADL', ['Veronique Quaglino', 'Yannick Gounden', 'Emilie Lacot', 'Frederique Couvillers', 'Amandine Lions', 'Mathieu Hainselin'], u'2016-06-08', u'The autonomy of individuals is linked to the achievement of instrumental activities of daily living that require complex behavior. In elderly, the assessment of autonomy is usually based on questionnaires that have strong subjective constraints. Considering this fact, we tested on elderly healthy adults and Alzheimer disease patients, a new measure, the S-IADL (Simulation of Instrumental Activities for Daily Living) to assess the ability to perform effectively activities of daily living. The S-IADL shares many items with the well-known IADL questionnaire proposed by Lawton and Brody (1969). However, as opposed to the IADL, the assessment of autonomy is not based on the completion of a questionnaire but requires the realization or simulation of various activities of daily living. Eighty-three participants (69 healthy elderly, and 14 Alzheimer Disease patients) filled in the IADL and performed the S-IADL assessment. Results revealed that like the IADL, the S-IADL is able to identify AD patients who are likely to encounter difficulties in performing everyday activities, and no major differences were found between the IADL and the S-IADL. However, this preliminary study reveals some advantages for privileging new tool based on simulation of activities in functional evaluation particularly in specific situation. Finally, we discuss of the main limits of the S-IADL that should be investigated prior to its utilization by clinicians.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2111/', ['Neurology', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Universit\xe9 de Picardie Jules Verne, CRPCPO, EA 7273', u'Service de G\xe9n\xe9tique Clinique et Oncog\xe9n\xe9tique, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire d\u2019Amiens Picardie', u'Services de neurologie et de g\xe9rontologie, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire d\u2019Amiens Picardie', u"IME Les Martinets, Adapei 36 l'Espoir"]]
