[u'Characterization of fermented Okara powder and its effect on lipid oxidation of emulsion-type pork sausage during cold storage', ['Chuanhai Tu', 'Shanshan Zhang', 'Qiuqin Zhang', 'Yu Xiao', 'Guangliang Xing', 'Mingsheng Dong'], u'2016-12-13', u'In the present study, Okara, a soybean by-product from the production of tofu and soymilk, was processed by solid state fermentation (SSF) with  Neurospora crassa    Mai 1-1, a filamentous and edible fungus which was firstly isolated in our group. The proximate composition, dietary fiber content, water-soluble polysaccharides and antioxidant activity of Okara was investigated. The crude fat and protein, soluble dietary fiber content and ergosterol content of Okara was significantly increased by SSF with  N.crassa  . And the antioxidant activity (evaluated by the ABTS radical cation scavenging activity and DPPH radical scavenging activity) of Okara was significantly enhanced by SSF with  N. crassa  . In addition, emulsion-type sausage was taken as a model system for farther investigation, sausage with fermented Okara power had reduced values of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) (  p  < 0.05 ), peroxide value. Therefore, this study demonstrated that fermented Okara showed higher nutrition value and antioxidant activity compared to the non-fermented Okara counterpart, and as an additive has good effect on antioxidant of emulsion-type sausage.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2636/', ['Food Science and Technology', 'Microbiology', 'Nutrition'], [u'College of Food Science and Technology, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing Agricultural University']]
[u'The solution of large-scale Minimum Cost SAT Problem as a tool for data analysis in bioinformatics', ['Giovanni Felici', 'Daniele Ferone', 'Paola Festa', 'Antonio Napoletano', 'Tommaso Pastore'], u'2016-12-12', u"Data mining is one of the main activities in bioinformatics, specifically to extract knowledge from massive data sets related with gene expression measurement, CNV, DNA strings, and others. A long array of methods are used to perform such task, ranging from the more established parametric statistical analysis to non parametric techniques, to classification methods that have been developed in knowledge engineering and artificial intelligence. In this paper, we consider a method for extracting logic formulas from data that relies on a large body of literature in integer and logic optimization, originally presented in [1], that has been largely and successfully applied to different problems in bioinformatics ([2], [3], [4], [5], [6]). Such method is based on the iterative solution of Minimum Cost SAT Problems and is able to extract logic formulas in DNF form that possess interesting features for their interpretation. While leaving the discussion of the main features and motivations of this approach to the related literature, in this talk we focus on the problem of solving efficiently very large scale instances of this well known logic programming problem and propose a new GRASP approach that, being able to exploit the specific structure of the problem, largely outperforms other established solvers for the same problem.\n\nReferences\n\n[1] G. Felici, K. Truemper. A Minsat Approach for Learning in Logic Domains, INFORMS Journal on Computing 14(1): 20-36 (2002).\n[2] P. Bertolazzi, G. Felici, E. Weitschek. Learning to classify species with barcodes, BMC Bioinformatics, 10:1-12 (2009).\n[3] M. Arisi, R. D\u2019Onofrio, A. Brandi, S. Felsani, G. Capsoni, G. Drovandi, G. Felici, E. Weitschek, P. Bertolazzi, A. Cattaneo. Gene Expression Biomarkers in the Brain of a Mouse Model for Alzheimer\u2019s Disease: Mining of Microarray Data by Logic Classification and Feature Selection. Journal of Alzheimer's Disease, 24(4) 721-738 (2011).\n[4] E. Weitschek, A. Lo Presti, G. Drovandi, G. Felici, M. Ciccozzi, M. Ciotti, P. Bertolazzi. Human polyomaviruses identification by logic mining techniques. BMC Virology Journal, 9:58 (2012).\n[5] E. Weitschek, G. Fiscon, G. Felici. Supervised DNA Barcodes species classification: analysis, comparisons and results, BMC BioData Mining, 7:4 (2014).\n[6] P. Bertolazzi, G. Felici, P. Festa, G. Fiscon, E. Weitschek. Integer Programming models for Feature Selection: new extensions and a randomized solution algorithm, European Journal of Operational Research, 250-389\u2013399, 250 (2016).", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2635/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Algorithms and Analysis of Algorithms', 'Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Optimization Theory and Computation'], [u'IASI, Italian National Council', u'Department of Mathematics and Applications "R.M. Caccioppoli", University of Napoli FEDERICO II']]
[u'Defining and redefining its role in biology: Synthetic biology as an emerging field at the interface of engineering and biology', ['Wenfa Ng'], u'2016-12-12', u'Synthetic biology is often misunderstood as creation of artificial life or new biology using principles different from those of extant organisms around us. But, fundamentally, the field is about engineering biology in a more efficient and effective way, and endowing new functions in existing organisms using a more refined and predictable approach. Thus, synthetic biology as encapsulated by the field it helps defined, is enhanced recombinant DNA technology, an example of which is modular and orthogonal \u201cstandard swappable biological parts\u201d. But, as the field grows and matures, various \u201callied\u201d fields are subsumed into it such as metabolic engineering, protein engineering, directed evolution, origins of life research, and systems biology, which in totality represents a new perspective of how engineering principles can be utilized to expand, in scope and depth, the realms of questions that biology ask. Two parallel approaches, directed evolution and de novo protein design, are frequently used to engineer new phenotypes into organisms. Similar to evolution but with purposeful use of selection pressure to elicit progressive refinement of specific traits in an efficient manner, directed evolution is a powerful methodology that generates, at the cell level, libraries of mutants of slightly different function such as differing resistance to heavy metals, that upon exertion of continued selection pressure, led to the evolution of a strain capable of thriving under a hostile environment previously inhabitable to the organism. Taking a different approach, de novo protein design taps on advances in biomolecule structure modeling together with bioinformatic sequence search for inserting, in a structure defined manner, specific amino acids (natural or unnatural) in a protein structure to endow desired functionality, where one highly sought function is catalysis of unnatural reactions such as the Diels-Alder reaction. Long chain length DNA synthesis, on the other hand, finds utility in enabling the synthesis of a minimal genome for a bacterium, which demonstrates the huge possibilities of having a microbe with an optimized genome (free of extraneous genes) for biotechnological applications in delivering drugs and fuel at high titer with lower cost. Having assimilated other fields, synthetic biology is again redefining its role as its seeks to use, in an ethical and responsible manner, a new way of adding new functions into organisms through genome editing. For example, CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing holds enormous potential for providing life saving gene editing capability in medical treatments, while enabling fast, easy removal of undesirable genes and prophages from a production microorganism. Synthetic biologists are asking themselves deep questions on how best to regulate this powerful technology that could be as impactful on science and human society as recombinant DNA technology was in 1973.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2634/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioengineering', 'Biotechnology', 'Computational Biology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Novena']]
