[u'Sedation levels in dogs: a validation study', ['Marika C Wagner', 'Kent G Hecker', 'Daniel Pang'], u'2016-09-28', u'The aim of this study was to assess validation evidence for a sedation scale for dogs. We hypothesized that the chosen sedation scale would be unreliable when used by different raters and show poor discrimination between sedation protocols. A sedation scale was used to score 62 dogs scheduled to receive sedation at two veterinary clinics in a prospective trial. Scores recorded by a single observer were used to assess internal consistency and construct validity of the scores. To assess inter-rater reliability, video-recordings of sedation assessment were randomized and blinded for viewing by 5 raters untrained in the scale. Videos were also edited to allow assessment of inter-rater reliability of an abbreviated scale by 5 different raters. Both sedation scales exhibited excellent internal consistency and very good inter-rater reliability (full scale, ICCsingle = 0.95; abbreviated scale, ICCsingle = 0.94). The full scale discriminated between the most common protocols: dexmedetomidine-hydromorphone (11 [1-18], n = 20) and acepromazine-hydromorphone (5 [0-15], n = 36, p = 0.02). The hypothesis was rejected. Full and abbreviated scales showed excellent internal consistency and very good reliability between multiple untrained raters. The full scale differentiated between levels of sedation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2485/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Veterinary Medicine'], [u'Veterinary Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences, University of Calgary', u'Department of Clinical Sciences, Universit\xe9 de Montr\xe9al']]
[u'Animal movement analysis through residence in space and time', ['Leigh G Torres', 'Rachael A. Orben', 'Irina Tolkova', 'David R Thompson'], u'2016-09-28', u'Identification and classification of behavior states in animal movement data can be complex, temporally biased, time-intensive, scale-dependent, and unstandardized across studies and taxa. Large movement datasets are increasingly common and there is a need for efficient methods of data exploration that adjust to the individual variability of each track. We present the Residence in Space and Time (RST) method to classify behavior patterns in movement data based on the concept that behavior states can be partitioned by the amount of space and time occupied in an area of constant scale. Using normalized values of Residence Time and Residence Distance within a constant search radius, RST is able to differentiate behavior patterns that are distance-intensive (e.g., area restricted search), time-intensive (e.g., rest), and transit (short time and distance). We use grey-headed albatross (Thalassarche chrysostoma) GPS tracks to demonstrate RST\u2019s ability to classify behavior patterns and adjust to the inherent scale and individuality of each track. Next, we evaluate RST\u2019s ability to discriminate between behavior states relative to other classical movement metrics. We then sub-sample albatross track data to illustrate RST\u2019s response to less temporally resolved data. Finally, we evaluate RST\u2019s performance using datasets from four taxa with diverse ecology, functional scales, ecosystems, and data-types. We conclude that RST is a robust, rapid, and flexible method for detailed exploratory analysis and meta-analyses of behavioral states in animal movement data based on its ability to integrate distance and time measurements into one descriptive metric of behavior groupings. Given the increasing amount of animal movement data collected, it is timely and useful to implement a consistent metric of behavior classification to enable efficient and comparative analyses. Overall, the application of RST to objectively explore and compare behavior patterns in movement data can enhance our fine- and broad- scale understanding of animal movement ecology.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2480/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Biogeography', 'Ecology'], [u'Department of Fisheries and Wildlife, Marine Mammal Institute, Oregon State University', u'Applied Math and Computer Science Departments, University of Washington', u'National Institute of Water and Atmospheric Research Ltd.']]
[u'Urban forests sustain diverse carrion beetle assemblages in the New York City metropolitan area', ['Nicole Fusco', 'Anthony Zhao', 'Jason Munshi-South'], u'2016-09-28', u'Urbanization is an increasingly pervasive form of land transformation that reduces biodiversity of many taxonomic groups. Beetles (Order: Coleoptera) exhibit a broad range of responses to urbanization, likely due to the high functional diversity in this order. Carrion beetles (Family: Silphidae) provide an important ecosystem service by promoting decomposition of small-bodied carcasses, and have previously been found to decline due to forest fragmentation caused by urbanization. However, New York City (NYC) and many other cities have fairly large continuous forest patches that support dense populations of small mammals, and thus may harbor relatively robust carrion beetle communities in city parks. In this study, we investigate carrion beetle community composition, abundance and diversity in forest patches along an urban-to-rural gradient spanning the urban core (Central Park, NYC) to outlying rural areas. Additionally, we conducted a more in-depth study of the carrion beetle community at a single suburban site in Westchester County, NY that was intensively surveyed in the early 1970\u2019s. We collected a total of 2,170 carrion beetles from eight species at 13 sites along this gradient. We report little to no effect of urbanization on carrion beetle diversity, although two species were not detected in any urban parks. Nicrophorus tomentosus was the most abundant species at all sites and seemed to dominate the urban communities, potentially due to its generalist habits and shallower burying depth. Variation between species in body size, habitat specialization, and area of largest continuous forest tract also did not influence carrion beetle communities. Lastly, we found few significant differences between 10 carrion beetle relative abundance between the early 1970\u2019s and 2015 at a single site in Westchester County, NY, although two of the rare species in the early 1970\u2019s were not detected in 2015. These results indicate that NYC\u2019s forested parks have the potential to sustain carrion beetle communities and the ecosystem services they provide.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2481/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Entomology'], [u'Biological Sciences & the Louis Calder Center, Fordham University', u'Department of Entomology, University of Maryland at College Park']]
[u'Being in the zone: Using behavioral and EEG recordings for the indirect assessment of flow', ['Elena Patricia Nunez Castellar', 'Jan-Niklas Antons', 'Daniele Marinazzo', 'Jan van Looy'], u'2016-09-28', u'As such, video games are enjoyed most when the level and speed of the game match the players\u2019 skills. An optimal balance between challenges and skills triggers the subjective experience of \u201cflow\u201d, a focused motivation leading to a feeling of spontaneous joy. Here we present the validation of a novel technique to indirectly assess the extent to which subjects experience flow during real game play by assessing attentional engagement; first behaviorally and in a second stage by means of electroencephalogram (EEG) recordings. An auditory novelty oddball paradigm was implemented as a secondary task while subjects played in three conditions: Boredom, Frustration and Flow. We found higher reaction times and error rates in the Flow condition. In a second stage we used advanced techniques to do source reconstruction and to investigate signal changes on both the temporal and frequency domain. EEG analysis revealed a response-locked fronto-central negative deflection significantly delayed during flow, likely signaling the need of re-allocation of attentional resources. Frequency domain analyses revealed significant power increase only in the alpha band for the flow condition. We believe that frontal alpha changes recorded as maximal at the mid- frontal lines during flow might be related with reward related processing', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2482/', ['Neuroscience', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Department of Data Analysis - Department of Communication Sciences, Universiteit Gent', u'Quality and Usability Lab / Faculty IV Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Technische Universit\xe4t Berlin', u'Department of Data Analysis, Universiteit Gent', u'Department of Communication sciences, Universiteit Gent']]
[u'A systematic literature review of how mutation testing supports test activities', ['Qianqian Zhu', 'Annibale Panichella', 'Andy Zaidman'], u'2016-09-28', u'Mutation testing has been very actively investigated by researchers since the 1970s and remarkable advances have been achieved in its concepts, theory, technology and empirical evidence. While the latest realisations have been summarised by existing literature review, we lack insight into how mutation testing is actually applied. Our goal is to identify and classify the main applications of mutation testing and analyse the level of replicability of empirical studies related to mutation testing. To this aim, this paper provides a systematic literature review on the application perspective of mutation testing based on a collection of 159 papers published between 1981 and 2015. In particular, we analysed in which testing activities mutation testing is used, which mutation tools and which mutation operators are employed. Additionally, we also investigated how the core inherent problems of mutation testing, i.e. the equivalent mutant problem and the high computational cost, are addressed during the actual usage. The results show that most studies use mutation testing as an assessment tool targeting unit tests, and many of the supporting techniques for making mutation testing applicable in practice are still underdeveloped. Based on our observations, we made nine recommendations for the future work, including an important suggestion on how to report mutation testing in testing experiments in an appropriate manner.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2483/', ['Software Engineering'], [u'Software Engineering Research Group, Delft University of Technology']]
[u'CATALISE: a multinational and multidisciplinary Delphi consensus study of problems with language development. Phase 2. Terminology', ['Dorothy V Bishop', 'Margaret J Snowling', 'Paul A Thompson', 'Trisha Greenhalgh'], u'2016-09-28', u'Background: Lack of agreement about criteria and terminology for children\u2019s language difficulties affects access to services as well as hindering research and practice. We report the second phase of a study using an online Delphi method to address these issues. In the first phase, we focused on criteria for language disorder. Here we consider terminology. Methods: The Delphi method is an iterative process in which an initial set of statements is rated by a panel of experts, who then have the opportunity to view anonymised ratings from other panel members. On this basis they can either revise their views or make a case for their position. The statements are then revised based on panel feedback, and again rated by and commented on by the panel. In this study, feedback from a second round was used to prepare a final set of statements in narrative form. The panel included 54 individuals representing a range of professions and nationalities. Results: We achieved at least 78% agreement for 19 of 21 statements within two rounds of ratings. The term \u2018Language Disorder\u2019 was preferred to refer to a profile of difficulties that causes functional impairment in everyday life and is associated with poor prognosis. The term, \u2018Developmental Language Disorder\u2019 (DLD) was endorsed for use when the language disorder was not associated with a known biomedical aetiology. It was also agreed that (1) presence of risk factors (neurobiological or environmental) does not preclude a diagnosis of DLD, (2) DLD can co-occur with other neurodevelopmental disorders (e.g., ADHD), and (3) DLD does not require a mismatch between verbal and nonverbal ability. Conclusions: This Delphi exercise highlights reasons for disagreements about terminology for language disorders and proposes standard definitions and nomenclature.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2484/', ['Cognitive Disorders', 'Pediatrics', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Experimental Psychology, University of Oxford', u'Nuffield Department of Primary Care Health Sciences, University of Oxford']]
[u'3D-Analysis of a non-planispiral ammonoid from the Hunsr\xfcck-Slate: natural or pathological variation?', ['Julia Stilkerich', 'Trisha A Smrecak', 'Kenneth De Baets'], u'2016-09-28', u'We herein examine the only known non-planispirally coiled early Devonian ammonoid, the holotype specimen of Ivoites opitzi, to investigate if the host was encrusted in vivo and if these sclerobionts were responsible for the trochospiral coiling observed on this unique specimen. To test if the presence of runner-like sclerobionts infested the historically collected specimen of Ivoites opitzi during its life, we used microCT to produce a three-dimensional model of the surface of the specimen. Our results indicate that sclerobionts grew across the outer rim (venter) on both sides of the ammonoid conch at exactly the location where the deviation from the planispiral was recognized, and where subsequent ammonoid growth would likely preclude encrustation. This indicates in vivo encrustation of the I. opitzi specimen, and represents the earliest documentation of the phenomenon. Further, this suggests that non-planispiral coiling in I. opitzi was pathologically induced and does not represent natural morphological variation in the species. Despite the observed anomalies in coiling, the specimen reached adulthood and retains important identifying morphological features, suggesting the ammonoid was minimally impacted by encrustation in life. As such, appointing a new type specimen \u2013 as suggested by some authors \u2013 for the species is not necessary. In addition, we identify the sclerobionts responsible for modifying the coiling of this specimen as hederelloids, a peculiar group of sclerobionts likely related to phoronids. Hederelloids in the Devonian are commonly found encrusting on fossils collected in moderately deep environments within the photic zone and are rarely documented in dysphotic and aphotic samples. This indicates that when the ammonoid was encrusted it lived within the euphotic zone and supports the latest interpretations of the Hunsr\xfcck Slate depositional environment.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2479/', ['Paleontology', 'Taxonomy'], [u'Geozentrum Nordbayern, Friedrich-Alexander Universit\xe4t Erlangen-N\xfcrnberg', u'Department of Geology, Grand Valley State University']]
