[u'The effects of exercise-induced heat stress on cognitive function in firefighters', ['F. Michael Williams-Bell', 'Tom M McLellan', 'Bernadette A Murphy'], u'2016-10-14', u'Background. Firefighting requires tremendous cognitive demands including assessing emergency scenes, executing critical decisions, and situational awareness of their surroundings. The aim of this study was to determine the effects of differing rates of increasing core temperature on cognitive function during exercise-induced heat stress.\nMethods. Nineteen male firefighters were exposed to repeated cognitive assessments, randomized and counter-balanced, in 30\xb0C and 35\xb0C and 50% humidity. Participants performed treadmill walking (4.5 km.h-1 and 2.5% grade) with cognitive function assessed before exercise (PRE), after mounting the treadmill (Cog 1), at core temperatures of 37.8\xb0C (Cog 2), 38.5\xb0C (Cog 3), and 39.0\xb0C (Cog 4), after dismounting the treadmill (POST), and following an active cooling recovery to a core temperature of 37.8\xb0C (REC). The cognitive tests implemented at PRE and POST were spatial working memory (SWM), rapid visual information processing (RVP), and reaction time (RTI) while paired associates learning (PAL) and spatial span (SSP) were assessed at Cog 1, Cog 2, Cog 3, and Cog 4. All five cognitive tests were assessed at REC.\nResults. Planned contrasts revealed that SSP and PAL were impaired at Cog 3, with SSP also impaired at Cog 4 compared to Cog 1. REC revealed no difference compared to Cog 1, but increased errors compared to Cog 2 for PAL.\nConclusions. The decrements in cognitive function observed at a core temperature of 38.5\xb0C are likely attributed to the cognitive resources required to maintain performance being overloaded due to increasing task complexity and external stimuli from exercise-induced heat stress. The addition of an active cooling recovery restored cognitive function to initial levels.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2524/', ['Neuroscience', 'Cognitive Disorders', 'Kinesiology'], [u'School of Health and Community Services, Durham College', u'Faculty of Science, University of Ontario Institute of Technology', u'TM McLellan Research Inc.', u'Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Ontario Institute of Technology']]
[u'Interoperability and FAIRness through a novel combination of Web technologies', ['Mark D Wilkinson', 'Ruben Verborgh', 'Luiz Olavo Bonino da Silva Santos', 'Tim Clark', 'Morris A Swertz', 'Fleur D.L. Kelpin', 'Alasdair J. G. Gray', 'Erik A. Schultes', 'Erik M. van Mulligen', 'Paolo Ciccarese', 'Mark Thompson', 'Rajaram Kaliyaperumal', 'Jerven T. Bolleman', 'Michel Dumontier'], u'2016-10-13', u'Data in the life sciences are extremely diverse and are stored in a broad spectrum of repositories ranging from those designed for particular data types (such as KEGG for pathway data or UniProt for protein data) to those that are general-purpose (such as FigShare, Zenodo, or EUDat). These data have widely different levels of sensitivity and security considerations. For example, clinical observations about genetic mutations in patients are highly sensitive, while observations of species diversity are generally not. The lack of uniformity in data models from one repository to another, and in the richness and availability of metadata descriptions, makes integration and analysis of these data a manual, time-consuming task with no scalability. Here we explore a set of resource-oriented Web design patterns for data discovery, accessibility, transformation, and integration that can be implemented by any general- or special-purpose repository as a means to assist users in finding and reusing their data holdings. We show that by using off-the-shelf technologies, interoperability can be achieved even to the level of an individual spreadsheet cell. We note that the behaviors of this architecture compare favorably to the desiderata defined by the FAIR Data Principles, and can therefore represent an exemplar implementation of those principles. The proposed interoperability design patterns may be used to improve discovery and integration of both new and legacy data, maximizing the utility of all scholarly outputs.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2522/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Data Science', 'Databases', 'Emerging Technologies', 'World Wide Web and Web Science'], [u'Center for Plant Biotechnology and Genomics - UPM/INIA, Universidad Polit\xe9cnica de Madrid', u'imec, Ghent University', u'Dutch Techcenter for Life Sciences', u'Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital', u'Department of Neurology, Harvard Medical School', u'Genomics Coordination Center and Department of Genetics, University Medical Center Groningen', u'Department of Computer Science, School of Mathematical and Computer Sciences, Heriot-Watt University', u'FAIR Data, Dutch TechCenter for Life Science', u'Department of Medical Informatics, Erasmus University Medical Center', u'Department of Neurology, Harvard Medical School', u'PerkinElmer Inc.', u'Department of Human Genetics, Leiden University Medical Center', u'Department of Human Genetics,, Leiden University Medical Center', u'Swiss-Prot Group, SIB Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics, Centre Medical Universitaire', u'Stanford Center for Biomedical Informatics Research, Stanford University School of Medicine']]
[u'SysMIC: A Blueprint for interdisciplinary online training in the life sciences', ['Gerold Baier', 'Chris Barnes', 'David Crowe', 'Stephen Gilmore', 'Uwe Grimm', 'Philip Lewis', 'David Morse', 'Clare Sansom', 'Robert D C Saunders', 'Adrian Shepherd', 'Geraint Thomas'], u'2016-10-13', u'\u2018Big Data\u2019 and a surge in quantitative methodologies increasingly urge bioresearchers to train and improve their mathematical and computational skills. In response to this challenge the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council in the United Kingdom offered funds to develop web-based training in mathematics and computation for life scientists in all fields. The SysMIC consortium won the bid and implemented a new type of online course, which so far has been delivered to more than 1400 scientists, mostly in the UK. Researchers train self-paced or in cohorts in a media rich environment with materials based around intuitive biological examples. We describe the course, its trainee spectrum, and the modes of trainee engagement. We propose that tailored interactive online training is a scalable model for continuing professional development in the interdisciplinary life sciences in the 21st century.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2523/', ['Computational Biology', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Science and Medical Education', 'Statistics', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Cell and Developmental Biology, University College London, University of London', u'School of Mathematics and Statistics, Open University distance learning and adult educationSchool of Mathematics and Statistics', u'School of Informatics, University of Edinburgh', u'School of Computing and Communications, Open University distance learning and adult education', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Birkbeck College, University of London', u'School of Life, Health and Chemical Sciences, Open University']]
