[u'Differential proteomics analysis of oligodendrogliomas and astrocytomas using iTRAQ quantification', ['Shide Lin', 'Jingzhe Li', 'Peng Wang', 'Yujie Zang', 'Fan Feng', 'TingBao Zhao'], u'2016-06-28', u'Background: Astrocytomas and oligodendrogliomas are two types of primary Central nervous system (CNS) tumors. Because of the cytoarchitectural variability and lacking of accurate differential diagnosis biomarkers, distinguishing between these neoplasms remains a challenge. Method: In this study, we utilized the tumor tissue proteome to distinguish the astrocytomas and oligodendrogliomas. The protein samples from astrocytomas and oligodendrogliomas tumor tissues were analyzed by 2DLC/MS/MS and isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) quantification. The differential proteins were analyzed by IPA software, and three identified differential proteins were validated by Western Blot. Results: A total of 2189 proteins were identified, including 150 upregulated and 103 downregulated in astrogliomas compared to oligodendrogliomas. By bioinformatics analysis, compared to oligodendrogliomas, the astrocytomas is more likely tend to cell proliferation, migration and the tumor angiogenesis, indicating astrocytomas was more malignant than the oligodendrogliomas. Pathway analysis showed that members of Rho Family GTPases were remarkably changed between astrocytomas and oligodendrogliomas. Two member of Rho family of GTPases, Cell division control protein 42 homolog (CDC42) and Transforming protein RhoA (RHOA) were over-expressed in astrocytomas and oligodendrogliomas, respectively. Discussion: Above data indicated that the differential proteome could be useful to distinguish between astrocytomas and oligodendrogliomas, especially the Rho family of GTPases. Differential proteome could partially reflect the pathological characteristics of these two diseases.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2179/', ['Neuroscience', 'Neurology'], [u'Department of Spinal Cord Injury, Institute of Orthopedics and Traumatology of Chinese, General Hospital of Jinan Military Command', u'Medical Research Center, China Academy of Chinese Medicine Sciences', u'Department of Neurosurgery, Chiese PLA General Hospital', u'The Second Military Medical University', u'Department of Pharmacy, General Hospital of Shenyang Military']]
[u'A review of population-based management of Southern mountain caribou in BC', ['Stan Boutin', 'Evelyn Merrill'], u'2016-06-28', u'The decline in Mountain caribou in BC over the past decades has resulted in extensive basic and applied research to guide caribou management by understanding the proximate and ultimate causes of the decline. At the top of the list is high predation rates brought about by human alteration of habitat and the subsequent alteration of predator-prey dynamics. We reviewed population-based management experiments undertaken in BC to recover caribou populations. These included primary prey (moose) reduction, lethal predator control, maternal penning, translocations, and supplemental feeding. Moose reduction by liberalized harvests has led to wolf population reduction and stabilization of treated caribou herds. Translocations have had limited success and finding source populations for future attempts will be a challenge. Maternity pens are producing promising results but their efficacy is strongest in relatively small populations and best results appear to occur when combined with predator control in areas surrounding the pens. Predator control experiments have just begun and results are forthcoming. Overall, no single population-based management tool has increased caribou populations. It is recommended that multiple levers need to be applied in combination on an experimental basis going forward.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2178/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, University of Alberta']]
[u'Effect of body condition on follicle transcriptome in estrous goats', ['Zi-Yu Wang', 'Chun-Hua Meng', 'Xiao-Lin Ding', 'Guo-Min Zhang', 'Feng Wang'], u'2016-06-28', u'Body condition or obesity has profound effects on estrus, follicle development, endocrine and conception in both livestock and human beings. To identify potential genes and pathways associated with follicle development in goats of different body condition scores (BCSs), the global gene expression levels of 2.0-3.5 mm follicles from 24 Yangtze River Delta white goats were analyzed by ribonucleic acid sequencing (RNA-Seq). A total of 2,019 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified in obese goats compared with the control, with 381 up-regulated and 1,638 down-regulated. A total of 309 DEGs were associated with reproduction in top-15-cluster-frequency Gene Ontology (GO) terms, and they accounted for 47.3% of all DEGs in biological process classification (653). Using Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis, several pathways relevant to reproduction and metabolism were enriched, such as cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, steroid hormone biosynthesis, etc. Based on the results of GO analysis and KEGG analysis, eight DEGs related to reproduction and metabolism were selected for quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) assays. The results showed that the expression level of these genes exhibited similar trends to the expression pattern of RNA-Seq. In addition, no significant difference was found in the intrafollicular estradiol (E2) concentration between the obese group and the control. The concentrations of progesterone (P4) and leptin were lower, and a higher E2/P4 ratio was found in the obese group. In summary, the establishment of goat follicle transcriptome would provide a useful reference for the molecular mechanism of follicle development. The combined analysis of DEGs, enriched pathways and follicular fluid composition revealed that P4 and leptin might be potential biomarkers of follicle development in goats.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2177/', ['Developmental Biology', 'Genomics'], [u'Institute of Animal Science, Jiangsu Academy of Agricultural Sciences', u'Department of Animal Genetics, Breeding and Reproduction, Nanjing Agricultural University']]
[u'Algorithms for the compression of genomic big data', ['Nicola Prezza', 'Alberto Policriti'], u'2016-06-28', u'Motivations. Building the Burrows-Wheeler transform (BWT) and computing the Lempel-Ziv parsing (LZ77) of huge collections of genomes is becoming an important task in bioinformatic analyses as these datasets often need to be compressed and indexed prior to analysis. Given that the sizes of such datasets often exceed RAM capacity of common machines however, standard algorithms cannot be used to solve this problem as they require a working space at least linear in the input size. One way to solve this problem is to exploit the intrinsic compressibility of such datasets: two genomes from the same species share most of their information (often more than 99%), so families of genomes can be considerably compressed. A solution to the above problem could therefore be that of designing algorithms working in compressed working space, i.e. algorithms that stream the input from disk and require in RAM a space that is proportional to the size of the compressed text.\nMethods. In this work we present algorithms and data structures to compress and index text in compressed working space. These results build upon compressed dynamic data structures, a sub-field of compressed data structures research that is lately receiving a lot of attention. We focus on two measures of compressibility: the empirical entropy H of the text and the number r of equal-letter runs in the BWT of the text. We show how to build the BWT and LZ77 using only O(Hn) and (rlog n) working space, n being the size of the collection. For the case of repetitive text collections (such as sets of genomes from the same species), this considerably improves the working space required by state-of-the art algorithms in the literature. The algorthms and data structures here discussed have all been implemented in a public C++ library, available at github.com/nicolaprezza/DYNAMIC. The library includes dynamic gap-encoded bitvectors, run-length encoded (RLE) strings, and RLE FM-indexes.\nResults. We conclude with an overview of the experimental results that we obtained running our algorithms on highly repetitive genomic datasets. As expected, our solutions require only a small fraction of the working space used by solutions working in non-compressed space, making it feasible to compute BWT and LZ77 of huge collections of genomes even on desktop computers with small amounts of RAM available. As a downside of using complex dynamic data structures however, running times are still not practical so improvements such as parallelization may be needed in order to make these solutions fully practical.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2176/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Genetics', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Mathematics, Physics, and Computer Science, Universit\xe0 degli studi di Udine', u'Institute of Applied Genomics']]
[u'A GPU-based high performance computing infrastructure for specialized NGS analyses', ['Andrea Manconi', 'Marco Moscatelli', 'Matteo Gnocchi', 'Giuliano Armano', 'Luciano Milanesi'], u'2016-06-28', u'Motivation \n\nRecent advances in genome sequencing and biological data analysis technologies used in bioinformatics have led to a fast and continuous increase in biological data. The difficulty of managing the huge amounts of data currently available to researchers and the need to have results within a reasonable time have led to the use of distributed and parallel computing infrastructures for their analysis. Recently, bioinformatics is exploring new approaches based on the use of hardware accelerators as GPUs. From an architectural perspective, GPUs are very different from traditional CPUs. Indeed, the latter are devices composed of few cores with lots of cache memory able to handle a few software threads at a time. Conversely, the former are devices equipped with hundreds of cores able to handle thousands of threads simultaneously, so that a very high level of parallelism can be reached. Use of GPUs over the last years has resulted in significant increases in the performance of certain applications. Despite GPUs are increasingly used in bioinformatics most laboratories do not have access to a GPU cluster or server. In this context, it is very important to provide useful services to use these tools.\n\nMethods \n\nA web-based platform has been implemented with the aim to enable researchers to perform their analysis through dedicated GPU-based computing resources. To this end, a GPU cluster equipped with 16 NVIDIA Tesla k20c cards has been configured. The infrastructure has been built upon the Galaxy technology [1]. Galaxy is an open web-based scientific workflow system for data intensive biomedical research accessible to researchers that do not have programming experience. Let us recall that Galaxy provides a public server, but it does not provide support to GPU-computing. By default, Galaxy is designed to run jobs on local systems. However, it can also be configured to run jobs on a cluster. The front-end Galaxy application runs on a single server, but tools are run on cluster nodes instead. To this end, Galaxy supports different distributed resource managers with the aim to enable different clusters. For the specific case, in our opinion SLURM [2] represents the most suitable workload manager to manage and control jobs. SLURM is a highly configurable workload and resource manager and it is currently used on six of the ten most powerful computers in the world including the Piz Daint, utilizing over 5000 NVIDIA Tesla K20 GPUs.\n\nResults \n\nGPU-based tools [3] devised by our group for quality control of NGS data have been used to test the infrastructure. Initially, this activity required to make changes to the tools with the aim to optimize the parallelization on the cluster according to the adopted workload manager. Successively, the tools have been converted into web-based services accessible through the Galaxy portal.\n\nAbstract truncated at 3,000 characters - the full version is available in the pdf file.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2175/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Institute for Biomedical Technologies, National Research Council', u'Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, University of Cagliari']]
[u'Towards an integrated interactive database for the search of stratification biomarkers in Alkaptonuria', ['Vittoria Cicaloni', 'Andrea Zugarini', 'Alberto Rossi', 'Matteo Zazzeri', 'Annalisa Santucci', 'Andrea Bernini', 'Ottavia Spiga'], u'2016-06-28', u'MOTIVATION Alkaptonuria (AKU) is a rare and genetic disease which causes discoloration of bone (a process called \u2018ochronosis\u2019) and induces early-onset osteoarthritis. AKU data have not been organized yet and the disease has no approved biomarkers. The ability to collect, integrate and analyze relevant data streams is the core for developing a \u201cPrecision Medicine Ecosystem\u201d AKU-dedicated in which biological resources are shared between researchers, clinicians and patients. Computational modeling can be a useful guide to generate an exhaustive and dynamic picture of the individual and to identify the molecular interactions between biomarkers on which progressive diseases are based.\nMETHODS It has been built a new integrated interactive database thanks to MySQL, the most frequently chosen for use in web applications. In addition, data are statistically analyzed by R software (www.r-project.org) based on Pearson\u2019s correlation coefficient andPvalue. For a biological interpretation of statistic results, Stitch (Kuhn M. et al, 2007) and KEGG (Kanehisa M. et al, 2000) are used.\nRESULTS For Precision Medicine (PM) application to AKU, the collection of as much data as possible Alkaptonuria affected patients has been needed in order to organize them in an interactive and integrated database and to find a data-processing system for AKU biomarkers discovery. The database is an effective tool for registered researchers, clinicians and patients who could both easily access all the current information, as well as being able to insert new data, refreshing or replacing previous entries. Data are divided into different sections: genetic, proteic, biochemical, histopathologic and clinical. As far as data analysis is concerned, it has been developed an algorithm to build up a refreshable correlation matrix based on Pearson\u2019s correlation coefficient andPvalue which allows the monitoring of renewable correlations between the most recent data inserted. Together with the mathematical and statistical interpretation, a biological explanation of the results is needed in order to investigate on AKU biomarkers. This dynamic tool could be useful for biomarkers investigation also in other osteoarticular diseases and it is a good starting point for the creation of data management and analysis model appropriate for PM. Through the use of AKU-dedicated database and this innovative analytic approach, it has been possible to become aware of the failure of biomarkers clinically used and to improve the detenction of more exploitable prognostic biomarkers for a more reliable AKU patients clinical monitoring.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2174/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Statistics', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Biotechnology Chemistry and Pharmacy, University of Siena', u'Department of Information Engineering and Mathematical Sciences, University of Siena']]
[u'Response of fish species to river restoration \u2013 the role of species traits', ['Stefanie Hockendorff', 'Jonathan D Tonkin', 'Peter Haase', 'Margret Bunzel-Druke', 'Olaf Zimball', 'Matthias Scharf', 'Stefan Stoll'], u'2016-06-28', u'Species are known to respond differently to restoration efforts, but we still lack a clear conceptual understanding of these differences. We analyzed the development of an entire fish community as well as the relationship between multi-metric response patterns of fish species and their ecological species traits at a comprehensively monitored river restoration project, the Lippe River in Germany. Using electrofishing data from 21 consecutive years (4 years pre- and 17 years post-restoration) from multiple restored and unrestored control reaches, we demonstrated that this restoration fully reached its targets, approximately doubling both species richness and abundance. Species richness continuously increased while fish density exhibited an overshooting response in the first years post restoration. Both richness and abundances stabilized approximately seven years after the restoration, although interannual variability remained considerable. The response of each species to the restoration was characterized using a set of six parameters. Relating the dissimilarity in species response to their ecological dissimilarity, based on 13 species traits, we found life-history and reproduction-related traits were the most important for species\u2019 responses to restoration. Short-lived species with early female maturity and multiple spawning runs per year exhibited the strongest response, reflecting the ability of fast reproducers to rapidly colonize new habitats. Fusiform-bodied species also responded more positively than deep-bodied species, reflecting the success of this restoration to reform appropriate hydromorphological conditions (riffles and shallow bays), for which these species depend. Our results demonstrate that repeated sampling over periods longer than seven years are necessary to reliably assess river restoration outcomes. Furthermore, this study emphasizes the utility of species traits for examining restoration outcomes, particularly the metapopulation and metacommunity processes driving recovery dynamics. Focusing on species traits instead of species identity also allows for easier transfer of knowledge to other biogeographic areas and promotes coupling to functional ecology.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2173/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology'], [u'Department of River Ecology and Conservation, Senckenberg Research Institute and Natural History Museum Frankfurt', u'Department of Integrative Biology, Oregon State University', u'Faculty of Biology, University of Duisburg-Essen', u'Arbeitsgemeinschaft Biologischer Umweltschutz im Kreis Soest e.V.', u'Ecotoxicology and Environment, University of Koblenz-Landau']]
[u'Data Fusion for cleavage target prediction', ['Simone Marini', 'Andrea Demartini', 'Francesca Vitali', 'Riccardo Bellazzi', 'Tatsuya Akutsu'], u'2016-06-28', u'Motivation: Protein cleavage is a pivotal process in cell metabolism. It is involved, among other processes, in cell differentiation and cycle control, stress and immune response, removal of abnormally folded proteins and cell death. Proteases (i.e. protein responsible for cleavage) account for ~2% of all gene products. As consequence, wrongly regulated proteolytic activity may result in diseases. The problem of predicting cleavage targets have been addressed by a number of algorithms. Traditional prediction models tackle the cleavage target machinery encoding directly related information to the outcome class (e.g. by extracting sequence patterns or frequency matrices). We are aware, however, that a huge amount of indirectly-related information is available in public data sets. Peptidases and targets are both proteins, and share similarities as well as non-cleavage interactions in knowledge bases; they are both encoded by genes, and gene interactions are also in databases. Our proposed Data Fusion algorithm leverages on these secondary information sources to infer novel peptidase targets.\nMethods: Our approach is based on tri-factorization. The multiplicity of data are fused by inferring a joint model, and without altering their original structure, i.e. data are explicitly represented in the form of a relational block matrix R. Diagonal blocks of R are set to 0, while other blocks are sparse matrices, populated with the relations harvested from the various data sources. R elements are constrained into the range [0, 1], where 0s represent negative or unknown relationships, while 1s are interpreted as certain relationships. We considered three elements in our matrix, namely peptidases, targets and genes. From MEROPS we obtained 657 human peptidases affecting 3460 targets and forming 8931 pairs. From their mapping on Uniprot, 3833 genes coding for pepidases or targets were retained. This information was used to populate the peptidase-target, peptidase-gene and target-gene R blocks. During the data fusion process, each R block is decomposed into three sub-matrices, characterized by low dimensions (if compared to the original R block size). There is no clear consensus about a technique to define these dimensions, and we proceeded by choosing a rank for a given block based on the number of known interactions. Once the dimensions are set, the three sub-matrices are used to reconstruct a user-defined target block Rt. R decomposition is obtained through an iterative process, where constraint matrices play an important role. Constraint matrices are populated with the associations relating objects of the same type. In our application we utilized five constraints: one gene-gene interaction matrix from BIOGrid; two target-target and protease-protease interaction matrices from STRING (0.7 as combined score threshold); two target-target and protease-protease...\n- - - Abstract truncated at 3,000 characters - the full version is available in the pdf file. - - -', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2172/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Cell Biology'], [u'Bioinformatics Center, Kyoto University', u'Electrical, Computer and Biomedical Engineering, University of Pavia']]
[u'Diversity and natural history of birds in green urban areas of the city of Quito, Ecuador (America)', ['Diego F Cisneros-Heredia', 'Eliana Montenegro'], u'2016-06-28', u'The diversity and ecology of urban bird communities have been extensively studied in Neartic and Paleartic areas, however, little is known about urban Neotropical areas. Quito, capital city of Ecuador, is located on a highland valley in the megadiverse tropical Andes. Founded in 1534, Quito did not increase significantly its urban area until the late 19th century, growing at an accelerated and unplanned rate during the 20th century. More than 100 species were known to inhabit in Quito at the end of the 19th century. Currently, most authors estimated that no more than 40 species occur in Quito, although no systematic bird studies have been conducted. Our research is a first approach to the avifauna of Quito, surveying the diversity living in green urban areas within the city borders. We used two field methodologies, i.e. line transects and point counts, to survey 16 green urban areas over 12 months. We recorded 65 species of birds, belonging to 20 families and 9 orders. Three species were the most common and frequent: Eared Dove Zenaida auriculata, Rufous-collared Sparrow Zonotrichia capensis, and Great Thrush Turdus fuscater, being omnivores and granivores adapted to anthropic habitats with low ecological complexity. Six species were equally common but not as frequent: American Kestrel Falco sparverius, Sparkling Violetear Colibri coruscans, Black-tailed Trainbearer Lesbia victoriae, Brown-bellied Swallow Oreochelidon murina, Black Flowerpiercer Diglossa humeralis, and Cinereous Conebill Conirostrum cinereum, being nectarivores or small predators. All other species were either uncommon or rare, mainly insectivores and frugivores that prefer wildlife habitats with mid/high ecological complexity, and restricted to large urban parks with patches of native vegetation. We found a negative correlation between human impact and bird richness in all studied areas. These data provide important information to encourage better urban practices and to promote conservation and recovery of Quito\u2019s native wildlife.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2171/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Zoology'], [u'Colegio de Ciencias Biol\xf3gicas y Ambientales, Laboratorio de Zoolog\xeda Terrestre, Universidad San Francisco de Quito', u"Department of Geography, King's College London, University of London", u'Aves y Conservaci\xf3n / BirdLife Ecuador']]
[u'Examining the context of health promoting schools: a translational approach to characterization and measurement of school ethos to support health and wellbeing', ['Tarra L Penney', 'Jessie-Lee D McIsaac', 'Kate E Storey', 'Julia C Kontak', 'Nicole Ata', 'Stefan Kuhle', 'Sara FL Kirk'], u'2016-06-28', u'Background: Health promoting schools (HPS) is hypothesized to influence student health and wellbeing by promoting a \u2018school ethos\u2019 that shapes the physical environment, social relations, organisational structure, policies and practices within the school. This complex set of conceptual dimensions makes school ethos challenging to measure as an important context for the implementation of HPS. The purpose of this research was to develop and explore a comprehensive measure of health promoting school ethos (HPSE) for the evaluation of HPS implementation, student health and well-being. Methods: We used a multi-method, iterative process to identify relevant HPSE concepts through triangulation of conceptual literature, existing tools and the tacit knowledge of school stakeholders. The HPSE measurement tool was administered to 18 elementary schools through a principal and teacher survey and an environmental assessment, followed by the development of a total and dimensional HPSE scores for each school. Testing for internal consistency of items was used to examine theorised concepts and sub-scores across HPSE dimensions, and total scores are summarised. Results: HPSE included eight conceptual dimensions with internal consistency ranging from \u03b1 = 0.60 to a = 0.87. Total HPSE scores across schools (N = 18) ranged from 1 to 8 (Mean = 3.94, SD = 2.1), with 28% to 65% of schools reporting \u2018high\u2019 on respective HPSE dimensions. Conclusions: The HPSE tool holds potential for the conceptualization of critical components of school context as it relates to HPS. Schools included a heterogeneous mixture of health supportive school ethos, particularly among sub-dimensions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2170/', ['Health Policy'], [u'School of Health and Human Performance, Dalhousie University', u'Healthy Populations Institute, Dalhousie University', u'School of Public Health, University of Alberta', u'Departments of Pediatrics and Obstetrics & Gynaecology, Dalhousie University']]
