[u'A geoprocessing modelling interoperable framework for AgriGIS using open data and open standards', ['Roberto Santos', 'Dai Huynh', 'Suchith Anand', 'Rumiana Ray', 'Sean Mayes', 'Didier Leibovici'], u'2016-06-16', u'We retrace the construction of AgriGIS framework between multiple disciplines around a common objective of facilitating research on model simulations for sustainable food security. The geospatial media enabling multidisciplinary research in crop modelling but also supporting new types of hypothesis and analysis, is described with interoperability principles and seamless access and sharing for data, metadata and processing models. Designing the platform achieving this main objective generated a transdisciplinary vision of modelling and forecasting for sustainable agriculture.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2136/', ['Scientific Computing and Simulation', 'Spatial and Geographic Information Systems'], [u'School of Geography, University of Nottingham', u'Nottingham Geospatial Institute, University of Nottingham', u'School of Biosciences, University of Nottingham']]
[u'Integrating a thermistor flowmeter and time lapse imagery to monitor sponge (Porifera) behaviour', ['Brian W Strehlow', 'Damien Jorgensen', 'Nicole S Webster', 'Mari-Carmen Pineda', 'Alan Duckworth'], u'2016-06-16', u'A digital, four-channel thermistor flowmeter was developed as an experimental tool for measuring pumping rates in marine sponges, particularly those with small excurrent pores (oscula). The flowmeter is integrated with time lapse cameras and has an accuracy of \xb15 mm s-1 over the range of 5\u2013200 mm s-1, a spatial resolution of 1.4 mm, and an adjustable temporal resolution of 5 seconds. Combining flowmeters with time lapse imagery yielded valuable insights into the contractile behaviour of oscula in Cliona orientalis, revealing four distinct oscula states: (1) osculum open with extended papilla, (2) osculum closed with extended papilla, (3) osculum closed with papilla retracted, and (4) osculum closed with papilla retracted and contraction of region surrounding osculum. Osculum area was positively correlated to measured excurrent velocities, indicating that sponge pumping and osculum contraction are coordinated behaviours. Diel trends in pumping activity and osculum contraction were also observed, with sponges increasing their pumping activity to peak at midday and decreasing pumping and contracting oscula at night. Short-term elevation of the suspended sediment concentration within the seawater initially decreased pumping rates by up to 90%, ultimately resulting in closure of the oscula and cessation of pumping. The thermistor flowmeter developed here will be a valuable tool to monitor behaviour, physiology and ecophysiology of sponges.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2137/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Marine Biology'], [u'School of Plant Biology; Centre for Microscopy, Characterisation and analysis; and Oceans Institute, Universtiy of Western Australia', u'Western Australian Marine Science Institution', u'Australian Institute of Marine Science', u'Sustainable Coastal Ecosystems & Industry in Tropical Australia, Australian Institute of Marine Science']]
[u'Contribution of prosthetic treatment considerations for dental extractions of permanent teeth', ['Miguel Angel Fernandez-Barrera', 'Carlo Eduardo Medina-Solis', 'Juan Fernando Casanova-Rosado', 'Martha Mendoza-Rodriguez', 'Mauricio Escoffie-Ramirez', 'Alejandro Jose Casanova-Rosado', 'Jose de Jesus Navarrete-Hernandez', 'Gerardo Maupome'], u'2016-06-16', u'Background: Tooth loss is an easily identifiable outcome that summarizes a complex suite of factors in an individual\u2019s history of dental disease and its treatment by dental services over a lifetime. Assessment of overall tooth loss data is essential for evaluating epidemiologically the adequacy of dental care provided at a systems level, as well as for placing in context tooth loss for non-disease causes. For example, when derived from prosthetic treatment planning; the latter may unfortunately lead to some teeth being extracted (pulled) for the sake of better comprehensive clinical results. The objective of the present manuscript was to identify the contribution to overall tooth loss, by extraction of permanent teeth because of prosthetic treatment reasons. Material and Methods: A cross-sectional study included sex, age, total number of extractions performed by subject, sextant (anterior vs. posterior), group of teeth (incisors, canines, premolars and molars), upper or lower arch, and the main reason underlying extraction (extraction for any reason vs. prosthetic treatment), in patients 18 years of age and older seeking care a dental school clinic in Mexico. A multivariate logistic regression model was generated. Results: A total of 749 teeth were extracted in 331 patients; 161 teeth (21.5% of total) were extracted for explicit prosthetic treatment indications. As age increased, the likelihood of having an extraction for prosthetic reasons increased 3% (OR=1.03, p<0.001). Women (OR=1.57, p<0.05) were more likely to be in this situation, and molars (OR=2.70, p<0.001) were most at risk. As the total number of extractions increased, the risk of having an extraction for prosthetic reasons decreased (OR=0.94, p<0.05). Conclusions: A significant amount (21.5%) of the extractions of permanent teeth were performed for prosthetic reasons in this dental school clinical environment; age, sex, type of tooth, and the total number of extractions moderated such pattern.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2135/', ['Dentistry', 'Public Health'], [u'Academic Area of Dentistry of Health Sciences Institute, Autonomous University of Hidalgo State', u'Advanced Studies and Research Center in Dentistry "Dr. Keisaburo Miyata", School of Dentistry, Autonomous University State of Mexico', u'Faculty of Dentistry, Autonomous University of Campeche', u'Faculty of Dentistry, Autonomous University of Yucatan', u'School of Dentistry, Indiana University-Purdue University at Indianapolis']]
[u'WebWorldWind, achievements and future of the ESA-NASA partnership', ['Yann Voumard', 'Paulo Sacramento', 'Pier Giorgio Marchetti', 'Patrick Hogan'], u'2016-06-15', u'Web World Wind is a 3D virtual globe API for HTML5 and JavaScript developed by NASA with support of the European Space Agency (ESA) and other partners. In this paper, the results of the first year for the on-going collaboration between ESA and NASA on Web World Wind development are presented, highlighting concrete examples built with the newly introduced features and putting them in relation to possible research and education use cases. Finally, the next steps and roadmap are briefly introduced.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2134/', ['Human-Computer Interaction', 'World Wide Web and Web Science', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Solenix Deutschland GmbH', u'ESRIN, European Space Agency (ESA)', u'Ames Research Center, NASA']]
[u'LISAM: an open source GIS-based model for liveability spatial assessment', ['Sara Antognelli', 'Marco Vizzari'], u'2016-06-15', u'Ecosystem Services (ES) and Urban Services (US) influence place liveability in a comparable manner so that assessing landscape liveability considering both types of services can result effective for landscape planning and policy-making purposes. Considering that liveability is strongly dependent also on landscape perception by local population, stakeholder involvement results essential for a more coherent liveability assessment. In this study, a Spatial Multicriteria Decision Aiding (S-MCDA) approach guided the development of a LIveability Spatial Assessment Model (LISAM). Using a combination of GIS techniques (euclidean distance, kernel density estimation, network analysis, viewshed analysis), implemented in open-source geo-spatial software (QGIS, PostGIS and PostgreSQL), consistent and comparable ES and US spatial indices were calculated in a study area located in central Italy. These indices, according to the Analytical Hierarchy Process (AHP), were integrated with their percentage weights on liveability deriving from stakeholders interviews. Then, to investigate the liveability levels of local population, main statistics of liveability values were calculated per census section. Results include overall liveability indices at a local scale, and key statistics of liveability related to resident population. The work highlights the effectiveness of LISAM to assess local liveability and to deliver important information for policy-makers. Results show a strong, nonlinear correlation between local liveability and population density. Both the tendency to attribute higher importance to US than ES, and to the underestimation of ES quantity has emerged. The future integration in LISAM of ecosystem and urban disservices would be relevant to consider those landscape factors that reduce the overall level of place liveability.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2133/', ['Databases', 'Spatial and Geographic Information Systems'], [u'Department of Agriculture, Food, and Environmental Sciences, University of Perugia']]
[u'Open technologies for monitoring systems aimed at disaster risk reduction', ['Massimiliano Cannata', 'Yann Chemin', 'Milan Petar Antonovic', 'Lahiru Wijesinghe', 'Vivien Deparday'], u'2016-06-15', u'This research is spearheading the integration of Free and Open Source Software (FOSS) and Open Source Hardware (OSHW) in the field of agri-meteorology applications to disaster risk reduction, flood and droughts. A Do-It-Yourself weather station based on OSHW standards has been developed from local sources in Sri Lanka, reporting by SMS to tank/reservoir managers when rainfall is higher than 10mm/h. These weather stations are soon going to be reprogrammed to report to istSOS, a FOSS web-based Sensor-Observation-Service compliant system, which will collate live reporting of rainfall every hour and before if intensities are dimmed worrying for flood risks. This is both a scientific, technological, and practical challenge toward a very low cost real time disaster risk notification system in places where climate, economy and maintenance supports are themselves other challenges.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2132/', ['Data Science', 'Databases', 'Emerging Technologies'], [u'Dipartimento Ambiente Costruzione e Design, Scuola Universitaria Professionale della Svizzera Italiana - SUPSI', u'Independent researcher', u'International Water Management Institute', u'Innovation Lab, Global Facility for Disaster Risk Reduction, World Bank']]
[u'Using Python\xae language for the validation of the CCI soil moisture products via SM2RAIN', ['Luca Ciabatta', 'Christian Massari', 'Luca Brocca', 'Christoph Reimer', 'Sebastian Hann', 'Wouter Dorigo', 'Wolfgang Wagner'], u'2016-06-15', u'Remote sensing techniques provide a new way to obtain hydrological variables (i.e. rainfall and soil moisture), mainly in poorly instrumented areas that are fundamental for natural hazard assessment and mitigation. The even increasing availability of satellite derived products characterized by high temporal and spatial coverage requires the development of techniques and instruments for big data volume managing. Moreover, the use of open source systems is highly encouraged in order to increase their use by the scientific community. In this study, the application of the SM2RAIN algorithm to the CCI soil moisture product is proposed as case study. A number of Python\xae classes and methods have been developed for this purpose, with the aim of creating an open-source web validation tool for SM dataset, within the Earth Observation Data Centre for Water Resources Monitoring (EODC).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2131/', ['Data Science', 'Scientific Computing and Simulation', 'Programming Languages'], [u'Research Institute for Geo-Hydrological Protection, National Research Council', u'Department of Geodesy and Geoinformation, Vienna University of Technology']]
[u'Bioavailability of D-methionine relative to L-methionine for nursery pigs using the slope-ratio assay', ['Changsu Kong', 'Jong Young Ahn', 'Beob G Kim'], u'2016-06-15', u'This experiment was conducted to determine the bioavailability of D-methionine (Met) relative to L-Met for nursery pigs using the slope-ratio assay. A total of 50 crossbred barrows with an initial BW of 13.5 kg (SD = 1.0) were used in an N balance study. A Met-deficient basal diet (BD) was formulated to contain an adequate amount of all amino acids for 10 to 20 kg pigs except for Met. The two reference diets were prepared by supplementing the BD with 0.4 or 0.8 g L-Met/kg at the expense of corn starch, and an equivalent concentration of D-Met was added to the BD for the two test diets. The pigs were adapted to the experimental diets for 5 d and then total but separated collection of feces and urine was conducted for 4 d according to the marker-to-marker procedure. Nitrogen intakes were similar across the treatments. Fecal N output was not affected by Met supplementation regardless of source and consequently apparent N digestibility did not change. Conversely, there was a negative linear response (P < 0.01) to Met supplementation with both Met isomers in urinary N output, which resulted in increased retained N (g/4 d) and N retention (% of intake). No quadratic response was observed in any of the N balance criteria. The estimated bioavailability of D-Met relative to L-Met from urinary N output (g/4 d) and N retention (% of intake) as dependent variables using supplemental Met intake (g/4 d) as an independent variable were 87.6 and 89.6%, respectively, but approximate 95% fiducial limits for the relative bioavailability estimates included 100%. In conclusion, with an absence of statistical significance, the present study indicated that the mean relative bioequivalence of D- to L-Met was 87.6% based on urinary N output or 89.6% based on N retention.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2130/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Animal Behavior', 'Veterinary Medicine', 'Zoology', 'Nutrition'], [u'Department of Animal Science and Technology, Konkuk University']]
[u'Meter scale variation in shrub dominance and soil moisture structure Arctic arthropod communities', ['Rikke Reisner Hansen', 'Oskar Liset Pryds Hansen', 'Joseph J Bowden', 'Urs A Treier', 'Signe Normand', 'Toke  Hye'], u'2016-06-15', u'The Arctic is warming at twice the rate of the rest of the world. This impacts Arctic species both directly, through increased temperatures, and indirectly, through structural changes in their habitats. Species are expected to exhibit idiosyncratic responses to structural change, which calls for detailed investigations at the species and community level. Here, we investigate how arthropod assemblages of spiders and beetles respond to variation in habitat structure at small spatial scales. We sampled transitions in shrub dominance and soil moisture between three different habitats (fen, dwarf shrub heath, and tall shrub tundra) at three different sites along a fjord gradient in southwest Greenland, using yellow pitfall cups. We identified 2547 individuals belonging to 47 species. We used species richness estimation, indicator species analysis and latent variable modeling to examine differences in arthropod community structure in response to habitat variation at local (within site) and regional scales (between sites). We estimated species responses to the environment by fitting species-specific generalized linear models with environmental covariates. Species assemblages were segregated at the habitat and site level. Each habitat hosted significant indicator species, and species richness and diversity were significantly lower in fen habitats. Assemblage patterns were significantly linked to changes in soil moisture and vegetation height, as well as geographic location. We show that meter-scale variation among habitats affects arthropod community structure, supporting the notion that the Arctic tundra is a heterogenous environment. To gain sufficient insight into temporal biodiversity change, we require studies of species distributions detailing species habitat preferences.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2129/', ['Biodiversity', 'Biogeography', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Entomology'], [u'Arctic Research Centre, Department of Bioscience, Aarhus University', u'Department of Bioscience, Kal\xf8, Aarhus University', u'Ecoinformatics & Biodiversity, Department of Bioscience, Aarhus University', u'Swiss Federal Institute for Forest, Snow and Landscape Research', u'Aarhus Institute of Advanced Studies, Aarhus University']]
