[u'Some like it hot: A differential response to changing temperatures by the malaria vectors Anopheles funestus and An. gambiae s.l.', ['Jacques D Charlwood'], u'2016-04-30', u'Background: With the possible implications of global warming, the effect of temperature on the dynamics of malaria vectors in Africa has become a subject of increasing interest. Information from the field is, however, relatively sparse. We describe the effect of ambient temperature over a five-year period on the dynamics of An. funestus and An. gambiae s.l., collected from a single village in southern Mozambique where temperatures varied from a night-time minimum of 6oC in the cool season to a daytime maximum of 35oC in the hot season. Results: Mean daily air temperatures varied from 34o C to 20oC and soil temperatures varied from 26 o C to 12 o C. Diurnal variation was greatest in the cooler months of the year and were greater in air temperatures than soil temperatures. During the study 301, 705 female An. funestus were collected in 6043 light-trap collections, 161, 466 in 7397 exit collections and 16, 995 in 1315 resting collections. The equivalent numbers for An. gambiae s.l. are 72, 475 in light-traps, 33, 868 in exit collections and 5, 333 from indoor resting collections. Numbers of mosquito were greatest in the warmer months. Numbers of An. gambiae s.l. went through a one hundredfold change (from a mean of 0.14 mosquitoes a night to 14) whereas numbers of An. funestus merely doubled (from a mean of 20 to 40 a night). The highest environmental correlations and mosquito numbers were between mean air temperature (r2 = 0.52 for An. funestus and 0.77 for An. gambiae s.l.). Numbers of mosquito collected were not related to rainfall with lags of up to four weeks. Numbers of both gravid and unfed An. gambiae complex females in exit collections continued to increase at all temperatures recorded but gravid females of An. funestus decreased at temperatures above 28oC. Overall the numbers of gravid and unfed An. funestus collected in exit collections were not correlated (p = 0.07). For an unknown reason the number of An. gambiae s.l. fell below monitoring thresholds during the study. Conclusions: Mean air temperature was the most important environmental parameter affecting both vectors in this part of Mozambique. Numbers of An. gambiae s.l. increased at all temperatures recorded whilst An. funestus appeared to be adversely affected by temperatures of 28oC and above. These differences may influence the distribution of the vectors as the planet warms.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2011/', ['Ecology', 'Entomology', 'Epidemiology', 'Global Health', 'Infectious Diseases'], [u'Medical Entomology, Instituto de Hygiene e Medicina Tropical', u'MOZDAN (Mozambican-Danish Rural Malaria Initiative)', u'Centre for Health Research and Development, Faculty of Life, University of Copenhagen']]
[u'Pleistocene phylogeography of tiger beetle, Calomera littoralis, in North-Eastern Mediterranean and Pontic regions inferred from mitochondrial COI gene sequence', ['Radomir  Jaskua', 'Tomasz Rewicz', 'Mateusz  Pociennik', 'Micha  Grabowski'], u'2016-04-30', u'Background. Calomera littoralis is a Palearctic species, widely distributed in Europe; inhabiting predominantly its Atlantic, Mediterranean and Black Sea coastlines. Methods. Its phylogeography on the Balkan Peninsula and on the north-western Black Sea coast was inferred using a 697 bp long portion of the mitochondrial COI gene, amplified from 169 individuals collected on 43 localities. Results. The results revealed two genetically divergent groups/lineages, the southern one inhabiting both the Balkan Peninsula and the Pontic Region and the northern one found exclusively in the Pontic Region. Species delimitation based on DNA barcoding gap suggested an interspecific level of divergence between these groups. Multivariate analysis of eight male and female morphometric traits detected no difference between the groups, implying they may represent cryptic species. The Bayesian time-calibrated reconstruction of phylogeny suggested that the lineages diverged ca. 2.3 Ma, in early Pleistocene. Discussion. This might result from contemporary isolation of the Pontic basin from the Mediterranean that broke the continuous strip of coastal habitats inhabited by C. littoralis. Demographic analyses indicated that both lineages have been in demographic and spatial expansion since ca. 0.15 Ma. It coincides with the terminal stage of MIS-6, i.e. Wartanian/Saalian glaciation, and beginning of MIS-5e, i.e. Eemian interglacial, during which, due to eustatic sea level rise, a wide connection between Mediterranean and the Pontic basin was re-established. This, along with re-appearance of coastal habitats could initiate north-east expansion of the southern lineage and its secondary contact with the northern one. Isolation of Pontic basin from Mediterranean during the Weichselian glaciation did not have probably any effect on their phylogeography.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2010/', ['Biodiversity', 'Biogeography', 'Entomology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Taxonomy'], [u'Department of Invertebrate Zoology and Hydrobiology, University of Lodz', u'Laboratory of Microscopic Imaging and Specialized Biological Techniques, University of Lodz']]
[u'Hypothesis: A new anteroposterior axis for non-radiate early echinoderms', ['Marc HE de Lussanet'], u'2016-04-30', u'Homalozoa are a weird group of echinoderms, for their complete lack of radiate symmetry. Indeed, they are typified by their tendency to marked asymmetric body forms. It has been proposed that they asymmetric forms evolved from bilaterally symmetric ones, but so far, only approximately bilaterally symmetric forms have been described (Robinson & Sprinkle 1969;Zamora 2012). Hypothesis: Homalozoans developed from bilaterally symmetric, tropartite larvae, by adopting a secondary anteroposterior axis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2009/', ['Developmental Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology'], [u'Institute for Sports Science, University of M\xfcnster', u'Otto Creutzfeldt Center for Cognitive and Behavioral Neuroscience, University of M\xfcnster']]
