[u'Genome editing weds CRISPR: what is in it for phytoremediation?', ['Zarrin Basharat', 'Azra Yasmin'], u'2016-05-09', u'CRISPR has transformed the genome editing process. CRISPR could be used to modify and regulate phenomenon of our interest in organisms from all three domains of life. Applications of CRISPR mediated precision genome engineering are immense and we are optimistic that it marks the dawn of a remarkable era of genome reprogrammed achievements. In this perspective piece, we postulate how the scientific breakthrough of CRISPR-Cas9 facilitated genome engineering could help in achieving sustainable environmental cleanup via phytoremediation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2034/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Biotechnology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Genomics', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of Environmental Sciences, Fatima Jinnah Women University']]
[u'Combined proteome and transcriptome analyses reveal that Zika virus circulating in Brazil alters cell cycle and neurogenic programmes in human neurospheres', ['Patricia P Garcez', 'Juliana Minardi Nascimento', 'Janaina Mota de Vasconcelos', 'Rodrigo Madeiro da Costa', 'Rodrigo Delvecchio', 'Pablo Trindade', 'Erick Correia Loiola', 'Luiza M. Higa', 'Juliana Cassoli', 'Gabriela Vitoria', 'Patricia Sequeira', 'Jaroslaw Sochacki', 'Renato S. Aguiar', 'Hellen Thais Fuzii', 'Ana M. Bispo de Filippis', 'Joao Lidio da Silva Goncalves Vianez Junior', 'Daniel Martins-de-Souza', 'Amilcar Tanuri', 'Stevens K Rehen'], u'2016-05-09', u'Zika virus (ZIKV) has been associated with microcephaly and other brain abnormalities; however, the molecular and cellular consequences of Zika virus circulating in Brazil to the human brain development have not been studied yet. Here we describe alterations in human neurospheres derived from neural stem cells infected with Brazilian ZIKV. Combined proteomics and mRNA transcriptional profile analyses showed that Brazilian ZIKV, prior to induce cell death, alters cell cycle and halts neurogenic programmes, in addition to regulate transcription and protein translation due to viral replication. These results point to biological mechanisms potentially implicated in brain malformations as a result of ZIKV congenital infection.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2033/', ['Cell Biology', 'Developmental Biology', 'Microbiology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Neuroscience'], [u"D'Or Institute for Research and Education (IDOR)", u'Institute of Biomedical Sciences, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro', u'Department of Biochemistry and Tissue Biology, University of Campinas', u'Center for Technological Innovation, Evandro Chagas Institute', u'Institute of Biology, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro', u'Department of Biochemistry and Tissue Biology, Laboratory of Neuroproteomics, University of Campinas (UNICAMP)', u'Institute Oswaldo Cruz, FIOCRUZ', u'Federal University of Par\xe1']]
[u'Transcriptome analysis of immature xylem in Chinese fir at different developmental phases', ['Yunxing Zhang', 'Xiaojiao Han', 'Jian Sang', 'Xuelian he', 'Mingying Liu', 'Guirong Qiao', 'Renying Zhuo', 'Guiping He', 'Jianjun Hu'], u'2016-05-09', u'Background: Chinese fir [Cunninghamia lanceolata (Lamb .) Hook.], is one of the most important native tree species for timber production in southern China. An understanding of overall fast growing stage, stem growth stage and senescence stage cambium transcriptome variation is lacking. We used transcriptome sequencing to identify the repertoire of genes expressed during development of xylem tissue in Chinese fir, aiming to delineate the molecular mechanisms of wood formation. Results: We carried out transcriptome sequencing at three different cultivation ages (7Y, 15Y and 21Y) generating 68.71 million reads (13.88 Gbp). A total of 140,486 unigenes with a mean size of 568.64 base pairs (bp) were obtained via de novo assembly. Of these, 27,427 unigenes (19.52%) were further annotated by comparison to public protein databases. A total of 5,331 (3.79%) unigenes were mapped into 118 pathways by searching against the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes Pathway database (KEGG). Differentially expressed genes (DEG) analysis identified 3, 16 and 5,899 DEGs from the comparison of 7Y vs. 15Y, 7Y vs. 21Y and 15Y vs. 21Y, respectively, in the immature xylem tissues, including 2,638 significantly up-regulated and 3,280 significantly down-regulated genes. Besides, five NAC transcription factors, 190 MYB transcription factors, and 34 WRKY transcription factors were identified respectively from Chinese fir transcriptome.  Conclusion: Our results revealed the active transcriptional pathways and identified the DEGs at different cultivation phases of Chinese fir wood formation. This transcriptome dataset will aid in understanding and carrying out future studies on the molecular basis of Chinese fir wood formation and contribute to future artificial production and applications.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2032/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Genomics', 'Molecular Biology', 'Plant Science', 'Soil Science'], [u'State Key Laboratory of Tree Genetics and Breeding, Chinese Academy of Forestry', u'Key Laboratory of Tree Breeding of Zhejiang Province, The Research Institute of Subtropical of Forestry, Chinese Academy of Forestry', u'Institute of Architectural and Artistic Design, Henan Polytechnic University', u'Key Laboratory of Tree Breeding and Cultivation of State Forestry Administration, Research Institute of Forestry, Chinese Academy of Forestry']]
[u'Mapping the functional connectivity of predation by large carnivores in the Canadian Rocky Mountains', ['Adam Ford'], u'2016-05-09', u'After decades of persecution, large carnivores are returning to human-occupied landscapes in many areas of North America and Europe. To ensure the safety of both people and wildlife, we need to understand how these animals perceive and select habitat as they navigate through developed area. Here, I investigate habitat selection by wolves and cougars in a 20,000 km2 landscape characterized by a marked gradient of urban and industrial development. I used data from over 15,000 km of wolf and cougar movement pathways, and from over 750 kill sites made by these two predators. These data were collected during the past 22 winters in Banff National Park (Alberta, Canada) and environs. Using GIS software, I created habitat selection models by comparing \u2018used\u2019 resources (e.g., topography, habitat type) found along movement pathways and at kill sites, with random points located <500 m from used sites. I then incorporated the results of these habitat selection models into a connectivity analysis to quantify the predicted flow of both movement and predation across the landscape. These results illustrate the extent to which \u2018connectivity\u2019 depends on species (e.g., cougars vs. wolves), behavior (movement vs. foraging), and proximity to people. These results are being used to inform policy on land-use planning in areas where large carnivores and people co-exist.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2031/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'IK Barber School of Arts and Sciences, Department of Biology, University of British Columbia']]
