[u'Identification of canine papillomavirus by PCR in Greyhound dogs', ['Eman A Enis', 'Linda A Frank', 'Raquel Francisco', 'Stephen A Kania'], u'2016-07-13', u'Background \u2013 Corns are hard protuberances that occur on the digital footpads of Greyhound dogs. The cause of these lesions is unknown and there is little information about them in the veterinary literature. We received anecdotal examples of dog to dog spread of corns suggesting an infectious cause. The aim of this study was to determine if papillomavirus (PV) is associated with Greyhound corns. Methods \u2013 We examined four corns from two unrelated adult Greyhound dogs that resided in Florida and Washington, respectively, for PV by PCR. The samples were obtained by owner coring of two lesions from one dog and laser removal of two lesions from the other dog. Total nucleic acid was extracted and DNA was amplified using two PCR primer sets that have been shown to amplify a broad range of PVs from humans and animals: FAP59/ FAP64 and MY11/ MY09. The DNA sequences were compared with all sequences in GenBank. Formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue from the footpads of four dogs with other inflammatory dermatoses were also examined. Results \u2013 PV DNA was amplified from all four corn lesions, while no PV DNA was amplified from other tissues. Comparison of the 300-400-bp sequences amplified by the MY11/ MY09 primers identified two different PVs. One showed 96% nucleotide sequence homology with the L1  gene of canine PV type 12. The other showed 78% homology to canine PV type 16, and, therefore, represents a novel PV. In one of the corns, infection by two of the identified PVs was found. Discussion \u2013 These results suggest PV infection could be involved in the pathogenesis of corns in Greyhound dogs.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2290/', ['Molecular Biology', 'Veterinary Medicine', 'Virology'], [u'Department of Biomedical and Diagnostic Sciences, University of Tennessee', u'Department of Virology, University of Sadat', u'Department of Small Animal Clinical Sciences, University of Tennessee']]
[u'XA21-specific induction of stress-related genes following Xanthomonas infection of detached rice leaves', ['Nicholas C Thomas', 'Benjamin Schwessinger', 'Furong Liu', 'Huamin Chen', 'Tong Wei', 'Yen P Nguyen', 'Isaac WF Shaker', 'Pamela C Ronald'], u'2016-07-13', u'The rice XA21 receptor kinase confers robust resistance to the bacterial pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo). We developed a detached leaf infection assay to quickly and reliably measure activation of the XA21-mediated immune response using genetic markers. We used RNA sequencing of elf18 treated EFR:XA21:GFP plants to identify candidate genes that could serve as markers for XA21 activation. From this analysis we identified 8 genes that are up-regulated in both in elf18 treated EFR:XA21:GFP rice leaves and Xoo infected XA21 rice leaves. These results provide a rapid and reliable method to assess bacterial-rice interactions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2289/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of Plant Pathology and the Genome Center, University of California, Davis', u'Joint BioEnergy Institute', u'Research School of Biology, Australian National University', u'State Key Laboratory for Biology of Plant Diseases and Insect Pests, Institute of Plant Protection, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences']]
[u'Development of a WEB-GIS real-time dynamic landslide risk scenarios procedure \u2013 Umbria Region civil protection early warning system, a case study', ['Francesco Ponziani', 'Marco Stelluti', 'Nicola Berni'], u'2016-07-13', u'Umbria Region Functional Centre, part of the Umbria Region Civil Protection Dept., since 2009 has developed an experimental, operational early warning system for landslide risk assessment, based on rainfall thresholds, soil moisture evaluation, quantitative precipitation forecasts \u2013 QPF, and an open source WebGIS decision support subsystem/platform \u2013 DSS. Rainfall thresholds were obtained by the analysis of past landslide events, correlated with their initial soil moisture condition reconstruction: observed and forecasted accumulated rain, together with modeled saturation index, compared with threshold values at different alert levels, lead to the production of early warning indicators, calculated at each point of a 738 grid covering the entire Umbria Region. The evaluation of the indicator grid values, is used on a daily base for the alerting state assessment over the regional territory; but, in order to take full advantage of all the available information layers useful for the hydrogeological risk evaluation, a real time scenario with high spatial resolution was developed too: every time that second-level rainfall thresholds are exceeded, the early warning indicators are used to start a procedure aimed at dynamic, real time risk scenario generation. A Linux API \u201cinotify\u201d waits for changes on warning indicators-thresholds ratio: if overtopping conditions are reached, the risk scenario procedure initiate a \u201cbash\u201d Linux script with all the commands aimed at generating and inserting the resulting geotiff on the web-gis platform. Aimed to the generation of the risk scenario, Geospatial Data Abstraction Library (gdal library) composed by raster and vector utility programs, calculating risk from hazard, susceptibility and vulnerability layers is used. More in detail, a procedure has been developed as follows: Step #1: from early warning indicators (hazard information), a dense interpolated regular grid using inverse distant weight algorithm is used; Step #2: in order to combine time-dependent landslide hazard with space-dependent landslide susceptibility, different types of susceptibility layers are used; final step: Exposed elements/vulnerability information (buildings, infrastructures, etc...) is used, able of leading to the generation of a dynamic, real-time risk scenario. Using the \u201cgdal_calc.py\u201d program, raster combined data produce the risk scenario layer. Then, real-time results are published on the web-gis platform. General performances appear to be promising and satisfactory for Civil Protection purposes (alerting issues, emergency management, territorial presidium/direct monitoring of the territory organization, etc..). Open source Web \u2013 GIS platforms appear to be an ideal tool in order to share dynamic hazard/risk scenarios with all the institutional subjects and stakeholders involved, and allow administrations to maintain sustainable and flexible operational systems.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2288/', ['Scientific Computing and Simulation', 'Spatial and Geographic Information Systems'], [u'Civil Protection Regional Department, Regione Umbria Local Body']]
[u'Diversity is the question, not the answer', ['Ashley Shade'], u'2016-07-13', u'Local (within-sample/alpha) diversity is often implicated as a cause of success or failure of a microbial community. However, the relationships between diversity and emergent properties of a community, such as its stability, productivity, or invasibility, are much more nuanced. In the submitted manuscript, I argue that diversity without context provides limited insights into the mechanisms underpinning community patterns. I provide examples from traditional and microbial ecology to discuss common complications and assumptions about within-sample diversity that may prevent us from digging deeper into the more specific mechanisms underpinning community outcomes. I suggest that measurement of diversity should serve as a starting point for further inquiry of ecological mechanisms rather than an \u201canswer\u201d to community outcomes.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2287/', ['Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, Michigan State University', u'Program in Ecology, Evolution, and Behavior, Michigan State University', u'DOE Great Lakes Bioenergy Research Center, Michigan State University']]
[u'How diverse is your team? Investigating gender and nationality diversity in GitHub teams', ['Marco Ortu', 'Giuseppe Destefanis', 'Steve Counsell', 'Stephen Swift', 'Michele Marchesi', 'Roberto Tonelli'], u'2016-07-13', u'Building an effective team of developers is a complex task faced by both software companies and open source communities. The problem of forming a \u201cdream\u201d team involves many variables, including consideration of human factors, and it is not a dilemma solvable in a mathematical way. Empirical studies might provide interesting insights to explain which factors need to be taken into account in building a team of developers and which levers act to optimise collaboration and productivity among developers. In this paper, we present the results of an empirical study aimed at investigating the link between team diver- sity (i.e., gender, nationality) and productivity (issue fixing time). We consider issues solved from the GHTorrent dataset inferring gender and nationality of each team\u2019s members. We also evaluate the politeness of all comments involved in issue resolution. Results show that higher gender diversity is linked with a lower team average issue fixing time and that nationality diversity is linked with lower team politeness.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2285/', ['Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Data Science', 'Natural Language and Speech', 'Social Computing', 'Software Engineering'], [u'DIEE, University of Cagliari', u'Computer Science, Brunel University', u'Department of Mathematics and Computer Science, University of Cagliari']]
[u'Potential ecosystem services of urban agriculture: a review', ['Raf Aerts', 'Valerie Dewaelheyns', 'Wouter MJ Achten'], u'2016-07-13', u'Urban agriculture (UA) is increasingly proposed as an environmentally friendly answer to global challenges including urbanization, public health, food security and climate change. We provide an overview of present evidence of ecosystem services delivered by UA that could potentially increase the sustainability of the urban ecosystem, including the often claimed reduced greenhouse gas emissions. There is general agreement that UA is important for local food production, especially in the south; that UA has a role in regulating green and blue water flows, organic waste flows and pollination; and that UA has important socio-cultural values, including an improved quality of city life and increased local community capacity. There is some evidence that UA may also improve human health because of dietary changes in certain social classes, but these are potentially confounded by environmental pollution in the city. Quantitative evidence is very limited for all ecosystem services, but the available data nevertheless suggests that the overall food productivity and the total reductions in greenhouse gas emission are low at global or city-wide scale despite the fact that UA has potential strong effects on food security at the local scale. The current eagerness of industrialized cities to integrate UA into their food policies as an approach to become \u201cclimate neutral\u201d or to rely on ecosystem services to become more resilient calls for life cycle assessment studies that accurately quantify emission reductions and other urban ecosystem services of urban agriculture.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2286/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Public Health', 'Coupled Natural and Human Systems'], [u'Health and Environment, Scientific Institute of Public Health', u'Division Forest, Nature and Landscape, University of Leuven', u'Institute for Environmental Management and Land Use Planning, Universit\xe9 Libre de Bruxelles']]
