[u'Introduction to the science and regulation concerning endocrine disrupting chemicals: the challenges ahead', ['Annegaaike Leopold', 'Glen Van Der Kraak', 'Mary K. Manibusan', 'Niklas Andersson', 'James R. Wheeler'], u'2016-11-07', u'Presentations in session one of the Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry (SETAC) North America Focused Topic Meeting: Endocrine Disruption (February 4 \u2013 6, 2014) described where the science and the regulations have arrived and identified the key challenges that lie ahead. The first presentation gave an overview of where the endocrine disrupting chemical (EDC) issue currently stands in terms of science and policy. It introduced the significant debate about whether suspected EDCs should be evaluated using a hazard-based or a risk-based approach. Subsequent presentations provided a synopsis of the US-EPA Endocrine Disruption Screening Program (EDSP), including a description of the legislative origins of the program, its risk-based nature, its evolution and its future through the input of multi-stakeholder advisory groups. A presentation was given about the current status of potential regulatory activities in the European Union (EU) relative to EDCs and the fact that it is a highly political subject in Europe was highlighted. Finally an EU- industry perspective was given on the repercussions of hazard versus risk-based approaches for EDCs. Both European speakers noted that the regulatory situation in the EU is not set and that at present it is not possible to predict exactly how EDCs will be addressed.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2583/', ['Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Genomics', 'Toxicology', 'Histology'], [u'Calidris environment bv', u'College of Biological Science, University of Guelph', u'Chemical Regulation and Safety, Exponent', u'European Chemicals Agency', u'Regulatory Toxicologist, Dow AgroSciences']]
[u'External kinetics of the kettlebell snatch in trained athletes', ['James A Ross', 'Justin W L Keogh', 'Cameron J Wilson', 'Christian Lorenzen'], u'2016-11-06', u'Background. Kettlebell lifting has gained increased popularity as both a form of resistance training and as a sport, despite the paucity of literature validating its use as a training tool. Kettlebell sport requires participants to complete the kettlebell snatch continuously over prolonged periods of time. Kettlebell sport and weightlifting involve similar exercises, however their traditional uses suggest they are better suited to training different fitness qualities. This study examined the three dimensional ground reaction force (GRF) and force applied to the kettlebell over a six minute kettlebell snatch set in 12 kettlebell trained males.\nMethods. During this set, VICON was used to record the kettlebell trajectory with nine infrared cameras while the GRF of each leg was recorded with a separate AMTI force plate. Over the course of the set, an average of 13.9 \xb1 3.3 repetitions per minute were performed with a 24 kg kettlebell. Significance was evaluated with a two-way ANOVA and paired t-tests, whilst Cohen\u2019s F (ESF) and Cohen\u2019s D (ESD) were used to determine the magnitude.\nResults. The applied force at the point of maximum acceleration was 814 \xb1 75 N and 885 \xb1 86 N for the downwards and upwards phases, respectively. The absolute peak resultant bilateral GRF was 1746 \xb1 217 N and 1768 \xb1 242 N for the downwards and upwards phases, respectively. Bilateral GRF of the first and last 14 repetitions was found to be similar, however there was a significant difference in the peak applied force (F (1.11) = 7.42, p = 0.02, ESF = 0.45). Unilateral GRF was found have a significant difference for the absolute anterior-posterior (F (1.11) = 885.15 p < 0.0001, ESF = 7.00) and medio-lateral force vectors (F (1.11) = 5.31, p = 0.042, ESF = 0.67).\nDiscussion. Over the course of a single repetition there were significant differences in the GRF and applied force at multiple points of the kettlebells trajectory. The kettlebell snatch loads each leg differently throughout a repetition and performing the kettlebell snatch for six minutes will result in a reduction in peak applied force.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2582/', ['Kinesiology'], [u'School of Exercise Science, Australian Catholic University', u'Faculty of Health Sciences and Medicine, Bond University', u'Sports Performance Research Institute New Zealand, Auckland University of Technology', u'Cluster for Health Improvement, Faculty of Science, Health, Education and Engineering, University of the Sunshine Coast', u'School of Exercise Science, Australian Catholic University']]
