[u'Ethylene induces endophyte bacteria to control early and late stage development in several plant species', ['Guenevere Perry'], u'2016-11-30', u'Plant growth promoting bacteria (PGPB) can modify plant growth and increase nutrient uptake. This study focuses on additional applications for PGPB in pre-harvest and post-harvest biotechnology.In this study a Bacillus sp. were exposed to urea, cobalt, and iron cofactors and induced with ethylene gas. The induced bacteria enhanced early stage development in cucumber plants. The bacetria increased seed germination by 25% and increased the number of blossoms per plant increased by over 50%. The induced Bacillus sp. controlled late stage development inseveral plants species. The bacteria delayed the effects of climacteric ripening in bananas and peaches. The PGPB may biosynthesize a compound that is released into the surrounding environment that affects early stage development and late stage development in several species of plants.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2611/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Food Science and Technology', 'Microbiology', 'Plant Science', 'Soil Science'], [u'R&D, G&A Innovative Solutions, LLC']]
[u'DOC concentrations across a depth gradient on a Caribbean coral reef', ['Benjamin Mueller', 'Erik H Meesters', 'Fleur C van Duyl'], u'2016-11-29', u'The dissolved organic carbon (DOC) pool on tropical coral reefs is mainly fueled by photosynthates released from benthic primary producers (BPP), such as reef algae and scleractinian corals. DOC concentrations near BPP have repeatedly been observed to be elevated compared to those in the surrounding water column. As the DOC release of BPP increases with increasing light availability, elevated DOC concentrations near them will, in part, also depend on light availability. Consequently, DOC concentrations are likely to be higher on the shallow, well-lit reef terrace than in deeper sections on the fore reef slope. We measured in situ DOC concentrations and light intensity in close proximity to the reef alga Dictyota sp. and the scleractinian coral Orbicella faveolata along a depth gradient from 5 to 20 m depth and compared these to background concentrations in the water column. DOC concentrations near Dictyota sp. were significantly higher at 10 m than at 5 and 20 m depth. Furthermore, at 10 m DOC concentrations near Dictyota sp. were elevated by 15 \xb5mol C L-1 compared to background concentrations in the water column, but not at 5 and 20 m. DOC concentrations near O. faveolata and in the water column did not differ between depths and concentrations near O. faveolata were not elevated compared to background concentrations at any of the tested depths. Our results indicate that DOC concentrations near Dictyota sp. can differ along a depth gradient from 5 to 20 m. However, the occurrence of elevated DOC concentrations did not follow a natural light gradient across depth. Instead, a combination of light availability (including a restriction by photoinhibition) and water movement are proposed to interactively determine the DOC concentrations in the close vicinity of BPP across the reef slope.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2610/', ['Biochemistry', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Marine Microbiology and Biogeochemistry, NIOZ Royal Netherlands Institute for Sea Research and Utrecht University', u'CARMABI Foundation', u'Department of Aquatic Environmental Ecology, University of Amsterdam', u'Wageningen Marine Research']]
[u'Statistical quality scale 6 (SQS6)', ['Jose Fausto de Morais', 'Gecilmar Pereira Borges', 'Gilmar Fernandes do Prado'], u'2016-11-29', u'Context. The statistical analysis is an important part of the process of assessing the quality of randomized controlled trials, unfortunately it tends to be underestimated or even omitted by editors, in this sense, scales that cover this gap becomes necessary. Objective.  To build a definition and a scale for assessing the quality of statistical analysis in randomized controlled trials. Methods. A content analysis on 16 biostatistics texts was considered in the building of the definition and of the scale. The indicators of quality were based on the description and presentation of results of articles. Results. We identify 32 quality indicators grouping in six dimensions: randomization and management of lost; sample size computation; use of mean and median; statistical test; use and interpretation of confidence interval and P-values. The scale range from 0 to 6 and score greater than three identify article with appropriate statistical analysis. Conclusions. The scale presented three dimensions linked to quality of description and three linked to quality of used strategy.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2609/', ['Translational Medicine', 'Statistics'], [u'Faculdade de Matematica, Universidade Federal de Uberl\xe2ndia', u'Instituto de Letras e Linguistica, Universidade Federal de Uberlandia', u'Departamento de Neurologia, Universidade Federal de Sao Paulo']]
