[u'PaPrBaG: A random forest approach for the detection of novel pathogens from NGS data', ['Carlus Deneke', 'Robert Rentzsch', 'Bernhard Y Renard'], u'2016-08-19', u'The reliable detection of novel bacterial pathogens from next generation sequencing data is a key challenge for microbial diagnostics. Current computational tools usually rely on sequence similarity and often fail to detect novel species when closely related genomes are unavailable or missing from reference database used. Here, we present the random forest based approach PaPrBaG (Pathogenicity Prediction for Bacterial Genomes). PaPrBaG overcomes genetic divergence by training on a wide set of species with known pathogenicity phenotype. To that end we generated a novel label source of pathogenic and non-pathogenic bacterial strains, using a rule-based protocol to annotate pathogenicity based on genome metadata. A detailed comparative study reveals that PaPrBaG has several advantages over sequence similarity approaches. Most importantly, it always provides a prediction whereas other approaches discard a large number of sequencing reads that are far away from currently known reference genomes. Furthermore, PaPrBaG remains reliable even at very low genomic coverages. Combining PaPrBaG with existing approaches further improves prediction results.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2379/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology', 'Statistics'], [u'Research Group Bioinformatics (NG4), Robert Koch Institute']]
[u'SLIMM: Species level identification of microorganisms from metagenomes', ['Temesgen Hailemariam Dadi', 'Bernhard Renard', 'Lothar H. Wieler', 'Torsten Semmler', 'Knut Reinert'], u'2016-08-19', u'Identification and quantification of microorganisms is an important step in studying the alpha and beta diversities within and between microbial communities respectively. Both, identification and quantification of a given microbial community can be carried out using whole genome shotgun sequences with less bias than using 16S-rRNA sequences. However, shared regions of DNA among reference genomes and taxonomic units pose a significant challenge in assigning reads correctly to their true origins. The existing microbial community profiling tools commonly deal with this problem by either preparing signature-based unique references or assigning an ambiguous read to its least common ancestor in a taxonomic tree. The former method is limited to making use of the reads which can be mapped to the curated regions, while the later suffer from the lack of uniquely-mapping reads at higher (more specific) taxonomic ranks. Moreover, even if the tools exhibited generally good performance in calling the organisms present in a sample, there is room for improvement in calling the correct relative abundance of the organisms. We present a new method Species Level Identification of Microorganisms from Metagenomes (SLIMM) which addresses the above issues by using coverage information of reference genomes to remove unlikely genomes from the analysis and subsequently gain more uniquely-mapping reads to assign at higher ranks of a taxonomic tree. SLIMM is based on a few, seemingly easy steps which lead to a tool that outperforms state-of-the-art tools in run-time and/or memory usage while being on par or better in computing quantitative and qualitative information at the species level.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2378/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology', 'Taxonomy'], [u'Department of Mathematics and Computer Science, Freie Universit\xe4t Berlin', u'Max Planck Institute for Molecular Genetics', u'Robert Koch Institute', u'Department of Veterinary Medicine, Freie Universit\xe4t Berlin', u'Department of Mathematics and Computer Science, Max Planck Institute for Molecular Genetics']]
[u'Multitask regression for condition-specific prioritization of miRNA targets in transcripts', ['Azim Dehghani Amirabad', 'Marcel H Schulz'], u'2016-08-19', u'Deregulation of miRNAs is implicated in many diseases in particular cancer, where miRNAs can act as tumour suppressors or oncogenes. As sequence-based miRNA target predictions do not provide condition-specific information, many algorithms combine expression data for miRNAs and genes for prioritization of miRNA targets. However, common strategies prioritize miRNA-gene as- sociations, although a miRNA may only target a subset of the alternative transcripts produced by a gene. Thus, current approaches are suboptimal. Here we address the problem of transcript and not gene based miRNA target prioritization. We show how to leverage methods that were developed for gene expression based miRNA-target prioritization for transcripts. In addition, we introduce a new multitasking based learning (MTL) method that uses structured-sparsity inducing regularization to improve accuracy of the learning. The new MTL approach performs especially favorable in small sample size settings, for genes with many transcripts and with noisy transcript expression level es- timates as shown with simulated data. In an analysis of real liver cancer RNA-seq data we show that the MTL approach better predicts transcript expression and outperforms simpler approaches for miRNA-target prediction.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2377/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Data Science'], [u'Computational Biology and Applied Algorithms, Max Planck Institute for Informatics and Cluster of Excellence, Saarland University', u'Cluster of Excellence for Multimodal Computing and Interaction, Saarland University', u'Computational Biology and Applied Algorithms, Max Planck Institute for Informatics']]
