[u"Conus bonus! Facilitation of Conus gastropods by invasive mangroves in Mo'orea, French Polynesia", ['Eric C Witte'], u'2016-12-21', u'Background. Ecosystem engineers are organisms that modify habitats and in many cases community assemblages. Mangroves (Rhizophora stylosa) on Mo\u2019orea displace native marsh grass habitats and affect the distribution of native and non-native gastropod species. This study aimed to determine the effect of mangrove facilitation on the expansion of geographic distribution of certain cone snail species (Conus eburneus,C. frigidus C. leopardus, C. miliaris, and C. pulicaris).\nMethods. Comparisons of temperature as well as cone snail abundance and diversity were conducted between marsh grasses, mangroves and sand flat habitats. The effects of short-term exposure to high temperatures on oxygen consumption were compared based on habitat parameters.\nResults. While cone snails were absent from salt marshes, cone snails varied in abundance and diversity in mangrove and sand flat habitats. Cone snails were slightly more abundant in mangroves than paired sand flat habitats. Conus species assemblages were comparable in paired mangrove and sand flat habitats. One effect of mangrove ecosystem engineering is reduced thermal maxima and variance, which did not have a clear effect on oxygen consumption.\nDiscussion. Cone snails are excluded from salt marshes dominated by Paspalum vaginatum, however they are present in mangrove salt marshes. Habitat usage by cone snails is comparable between adjacent sites, suggesting that sand-specialized cone snails may receive the greatest benefit from mangrove facilitation due to proximity between possible habitats. Despite well documented effects of temperature variance on intertidal gastropods, this study did not find a direct effect of temperature variance on cone snails. This study contributes to efforts to understand effects of invasive ecosystem engineers on native community assemblages. Redistribution of species on a global scale has varied and complex implications; understanding these effects is crucial to predicting effects on biodiversity.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2659/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'Molecular simulations for investigating the role of food polyphenols', ['Bernardina Scafuri', 'Anna Marabotti', 'Angelo Facchiano'], u'2016-12-21', u'Food components are object of many studies aimed to identify compounds responsible of positive effects in nutrition and food science. Compound categories include antioxidants, whose positive activity is commonly related to their activity in deactivating free radicals. Polyphenols are of particular interest, and studies demonstrate many positive effects. We have recently investigated the role of apple polyphenols, in particular for the effects reported in literature in the past years, and we evidenced possible protein targets for polyphenols found in apple but present also in other fruits and vegetables. Our results open the perspective of identifying metabolic pathways affected by polyphenols. To this aim, we are investigating in more detail the potential protein targets already identified in our study, and defining the possible role of each compound investigated in the modulation of the related target activity. This ongoing study is based on the integration of techniques and resources previously used in our studies, as molecular simulations of protein-ligand docking, mutation effects, pathways analysis, and online bioinformatics resources for collecting information about proteins and their structural and functional properties.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2658/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Institute of Food Science, National Research Council', u'Department of Chemistry and Biology "A. Zambelli", University of Salerno']]
[u'\xadVulnerability of parrotfish functional diversity and coral reef health in transitioning island socio-ecosystems', ['Katherine R Rice'], u'2016-12-21', u'Mo\u2019orea\u2019s reefs have rebounded from environmental disturbance throughout the years largely due to herbivorous fish that deter damaging algal blooms. This resilience suggests herbivorous fishes act as a keystone species in the coral reef ecosystem, and the greater island community of Mo\u2019orea. Parrotfish support reef health and stability, and reefs support the development of the local economy by way of tourism and access to medicine, nourishment, and protection. Because island communities rely heavily on coral reef ecosystems, identifying the impact of fishing on the morphology and ecosystem function of parrotfish in a time of marine management and demographic transition can increase our knowledge of the vulnerability and resilience of these complex socio-ecosystems. The 2016 study reported here seeks to understand to what extent changes in fisheries management and off-take rates have affected the historically sustainable relationship between Mo\u2019orea\u2019s fishing population, the lagoon\u2019s supply of larger-sized parrotfish, and the ecological stability of the greater coral reef ecosystem. Specifically, this study measured average parrotfish size at various fishing zones and paired Marine Protected Areas (MPAs) around the island, and then used participatory surveys to quantify fishermen observation of changes in parrotfish size since they started fishing. Both field data and participatory survey data show a decrease in parrotfish size since the establishment of MPAs. Island-wide, parrotfish also appear to be smaller in fished sites than in MPAs. Results suggest that the joint effect of zoning, catch-size enforcements and increased fishing pressure have caused a size-selection of parrotfish in the fishing zones of studied lagoons. These findings highlight the vulnerability of Mo\u2019orea\u2019s coral reef ecosystem to transitions in marine management strategy and size-selective fishing.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2657/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Marine Biology', 'Science Policy', 'Coupled Natural and Human Systems'], [u'Department of Environmental Science, Policy, and Management, University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'Metabolic responses of photosynthetic sea slugs to a changing environment', ['Jacey C Van Wert'], u'2016-12-21', u'Sacoglossan sea slugs have complex interactions with their environment. They are well known for their ability to sequester stolen chloroplasts and utilize them for photoautotrophic CO2 fixation, yet the dependence on this is not clear in most species. Elysia stylifera is an Indo-Pacific tropical sacoglossan that selectively consumes Halimeda macroalgae and retains its chloroplasts for two weeks. This association is prone to change as their habitats are subjected to increased ocean warmth and acidification, altering algal distribution and decreasing photosynthetic efficiency. This study aimed to investigate the metabolic response of E. stylifera to projected environmental changes. Elysia stylifera were subjected to ambient (28\xb0C) or warm (30\xb0C) conditions and five days of food deprivation. On the first and fifth day of starvation, the respiration rates of individuals were measured in the dark to quantify slug response, as well as in the light to characterize their response when given the ability to photosynthesize. Dark treatments showed that slugs deprived of food undergo metabolic suppression in current conditions, but may not undergo suppression in projected warm conditions. The difference between oxygen consumption in dark and light treated slugs demonstrated photosynthesis occurred, but that it was reduced under all stressors. This study reveals that forecasted ocean warming may not be favorable for short-term photosynthetic sea slugs because of its impact on both the sea slugs and their ingested kleptoplasts. It also presents new uncertainties about the benefits of kleptoplasty and how it may transform with climate change.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2650/', ['Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Integrative Biology, University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'Genetic diversity and population structure of Gerbera delavayi  Franch. revealed by newly developed genic-SSR markers', ['Wei Zheng', 'Xiaodan Xu'], u'2016-12-21', u'Background: Gerbera delavayi Franch., a perennial herb native to southwest China, is of important and special value in textile and culture. Its abaxial leaves have a layer of soft fibers, which can be manually peeled, twisted into a yarn, and applied in textiles for hand-made clothes. The particular craftsmanship, unique all over the world, is a part of the intangible cultural heritage in Yunnan and Sichuan Province. To date, the wild species has become endangered because its leaves are excessively harvested for textile applications. Estimating the genetic variation of plant species is crucial for plant conservation and breeding. So, the aim of this study was to (1) provide an accurate outline of the genetic diversity and population structure of G. delavayi and (2) propose targeted conservation strategies for these wild resources.\nMethods: Simple sequence repeats (SSR) markers were developed from the G. delavayi transcriptome for its genetic analysis. A total of 5,179 genic-SSR markers were identified and 350 primer pairs were selected for PCR validation. After primary screening , 19 polymorphic and neutral primer pairs were used to analyze the genetic diversity and population structure of nine wild fireweed populations (a total of 204 individuals) collected from Southwest China.\nResults: Moderate genetic diversity (allelic richness (Ar)=3.436, Shannon\u2019s information index (I)=0.789 , observed heterozygosity (Ho)=0.304 , and expected heterozygosity (He)=0.415) and moderate differentiation (FST=0.110,  P=0.000) were found among nine populations. The lowest genetic diversity (Ar=2.351,  I=0.497,  Ho=0.178, and  He=0.284) and highest inbreeding (inbreeding coefficient (FIS)=0.365) were both detected within the isolated population PE. Furthermore, high genetic differentiation, limited gene flow, and clear genetic barrier were detected between PE and other populations, showing the significant effects of habitat fragmentation on the genetic differentiation of these  G. delavayi populations.\nConclusions:  Our results showed that human overexploitation has led to moderate genetic diversity in G.delavayi populations. Furthermore, habitat fragmentation has resulted in clear genetic barrier and high differentiation between the isolated and concentrated populations. Upon the genetic features of wild  G. delavayi  populations, we proposed several strategies for protecting and utilizing the current wild resources.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2656/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Genetics', 'Molecular Biology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Faculty of Architecture and City Planning, Kunming University of Science and Technology', u'Faculty of Art and Communication, Kunming University of Science and Technology']]
[u'Distribution of carbapenemases and efflux pump in carbopenems-resistance Acinetobacter baumannii', ['Zhu-Qiang Qiu', 'Li-Jing Zhu', 'Pan-Fei Hou'], u'2016-12-21', u'Acinetobacter baumannii has emerged as an important pathogen related to serious infections and nosocomial outbreaks around the world. The aim of this study was to detect the distribution of carbapenemases and efflux pump in carbopenems-resistance Acinetobacter baumannii(CRAB). In this study, 100 isolates of CRAB were collected from clinical specimens. Agar dilution was conducted to determine the minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) to 15 kinds of antibiotic. Genes of carbapenemases and efflux pumps were amplified by PCR. The expression difference of pump genes was also analyzed by real-time PCR between CRAB and carbopenems- sensitive Acinetobacter baumannii (CSAB). We found that most antibiotics, including aminoglycosides, fluoroquinolones and cephalosporins showed high MIC values in CRAB. While, all isolates were sensitive to polymyxin B. Among CRAB, 54, 32 and 16 isolates were positive for SHV-12\uff0cPER-1 and TEM-1, respectively. 86 isolates were positive for OXA-23. 55, 33 and 5 isolates carried adeB, adeJ and adeE genes. The expression level of adeB in CRAB was ten times higher than that in CSAB. Moreover, isolates with single adeE gene were detected for the first time in Acinetobacter baumannii.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2655/', ['Microbiology'], [u'Department of Clinical Laboratory, Rushan Hospital of Binzhou Medical University', u'Department of respiration, Rushan Hospital of Binzhou Medical University']]
[u'Sponge physiology: the effects of temperature on the regeneration and reaggregation of sponges (Haliclona reniera)', ['Charlotte C Runzel'], u'2016-12-21', u'Background. Increases in oceanic temperatures are expected to affect the cellular function of ecologically important organisms, such as sponges. Sponges are important to biodiversity, coral reef systems, benthic and spongiverous organisms, and the biomedical industry. Sponges can repair wounds (regeneration) and rebuild their body from separated cells (reaggregation). The rates of regeneration and reaggregation can serve as a proxy for cellular functions. These processes are important to sponge physiology, growth and competition in reef systems. This study will examine how temperature affects the regeneration and reaggregation of Haliclona reniera.\nMethods. This study considered the effects of temperature on growth and reaggregation. Percent of reaggregation was measured in a range of temperatures (4-34\u02daC) for 15 minutes and analyzed using imageJ software. Regeneration rates of wounded sponges were measured in fluctuating (28-32\u02daC & 28-34\u02daC) and non-fluctuating (28\u02daC and 32\u02daC) oceanic temperatures. The depth and size of H. reniera was measured with transects. \nResults. Through observing growth and aggregation rates in a variety of temperatures, this study showed that sponges exposed to average fluctuations at 1m (28-32\u02daC) had higher regeneration rates than those exposed to high fluctuations (28-34\u02daC) at 0.5m. Wounded sponges regenerated faster in higher temperatures (32\u02daC) than in lower temperatures (28\u02daC). Aggregation cells fit a temperature performance curve with a peak at 29.5\u02daC, or just above average oceanic temperatures (29\u02daC). H. reniera was most commonly found at depths of 1m.\nDiscussion. Although coral and other organisms may be greatly affected by oceanic warming, sponges may persist, depending on how oceanic temperature will fluctuate in the future. H. reniera repaired wounds faster in average temperature with normally occurring fluctuations and aggregated most frequently at temperatures slightly above average (29.5\u02daC). With IPCC predictions of increased oceanic temperatures and fluctuations, H. reniera may not have ideal oceanic conditions, but will still endure these conditions. With coral reefs affected by climate change conditions, many organisms may die off, perhaps transitioning coral reefs into sponge reefs.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2654/', ['Cell Biology', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Integrative Biology Department, University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'The thermal range of the cushion sea star, Culcita novaeguineae, distribution and its behavioral response to warmer waters', ['Alexandra G Yokley'], u'2016-12-21', u'Overproduction of greenhouse gases is driving climate change and increasing the average temperature of oceans worldwide. As a result, organisms are exhibiting behavioral changes and species are shifting their natural distribution. This study aimed to assess the effects of temperature on C. novaeguineae distribution and movement in order to predict the effects of rising sea temperature on this echinoderm\u2019s behavior and ecology. The distribution study measured the temperature gradient of the cushion star\u2019s current habitat in order to determine how temperature changes with respect to depth. Additionally, the cushion star\u2019s distribution range in relation to depth and sea temperature was examined to demonstrate how temperature influences cushion star range. The field experiment was conducted to determine the effects of increased temperature on C. novaeguineae behavior. Movement, a common mechanism used by ectotherms to escape heat stress, was measured as the response variable in cushion stars heat shocked in ocean waters 3\xb0C above their expected upper thermal limit and in control organisms kept in ambient ocean waters of 31\xb0C. The results of the distribution survey found that temperature decreased as depth increased. And cushion stars were generally found at 1, 2, and 3 meters and in temperatures between 29\xb0C and 31\xb0C. The field experiment revealed that the heat shocked individuals moved 3.2 times further than the control organisms and twice the number of heat shocked cushion stars moved into deeper waters than control organisms. This study suggests that temperature is the major factor affecting cushion star distribution and increased temperature promotes movement into greater depths. Consequently, as the ocean continues to warm, cushion stars may move into deeper waters to find relief from the heat stress, altering the structure of the shallow, coral reef ecosystem in which cushion stars are currently abundant.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2653/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Environmental Science Policy and Management, University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'Birds in estuaries can act as indicators of climate change: a study at a key wintering site for waterbirds in Europe', ['Dominik Marchowski', 'Lukasz  Jankowiak', 'Dariusz Wysocki', 'Lukasz  Lawicki', 'Jozef Girjatowicz'], u'2016-12-21', u'Climate change can shift the winter range of many species and birds can act as indicators of this process. Estuaries of large rivers are places where different waterbirds winter with each species reflecting their own behavior and sensitivity to weather changes. Knowing these behaviors and tracking long-term changes in the number of birds, we can confirm the direction of climate change. One estuary of key importance for wintering waterfowl is the Odra River Estuary situated in the south-western part of the Baltic Sea. The most numerous birds here belong to two groups: benthic feeders and fish feeders. We show that numbers of all benthivorous waterbirds were negatively correlated with the presence of ice, but for piscivorous there was no relationship. We anticipate that with continued global warming the importance of this area for benthic feeders will increase, but will decrease for fish feeders. Among the seven species of benthivorous birds we studied, one showed an increase in numbers (Greater Scaup Aythya marila), two were stable (Tufted Duck A. fuligula and Eurasian Coot Fulica atra) and two decreased (Common Pochard A. ferina and Common Goldeneye Bucephala clangula); among the piscivorous group two species (Smew Mergellus albellus and Goosander Mergus merganser) showed a decline. The decline of the Common Pochard may reflect that species global decline. Climate change may be responsible for some of the local changes in the study area, namely the increase in the number of Greater Scaup and reduction in the numbers of Common Goldeneye, Smew and Goosander.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2652/', ['Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Vertebrate Zoology and Anthropology, Institute for Research on Biodiversity, Faculty of Biology, University of Szczecin', u'West- Pomeranian Nature Society', u'Hydrography and Water Management Unit, Faculty of Earth Science, University of Szczecin']]
[u'The effects of sound on the survivorship and embryonic development of a marine gastropod Stylocheilus striatus, (aplysiidae)', ['Robert J Spankowski'], u'2016-12-21', u'How anthropogenic noise pollution affects marine organisms is drawing increasing international concern. There is evidence for anthropogenic noise having negative and harmful effects on the health, development and behavior of many terrestrial species; however, there are few examples of how specific frequencies of sound affect the survivorship and embryonic development of marine invertebrates. This experiment examines the effects of specific frequencies of sound on the survivorship and embryonic development of a marine gastropod, Stylocheilus striatus on the island of Mo\u2019orea, French Polynesia. It was found that high frequency sound treatments caused a delay in the embryonic development of S. striatus embryos by 3 days while decreasing veliger survivorship by 37%. Additionally, high frequency treatments were shown to cause an observed morphological difference in shell morphology as compared to control and low frequency treatment groups. This study can be used to aid in the management and planning of future conservation polices regarding sound pollution and marine invertebrate gastropods as their presence is crucial for reef health and community structure.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2651/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Developmental Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Environmental Science, Policy and Management, University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'The impact of archaeological clearing on secondary succession in a tropical rainforest', ['Allison J Herbert'], u'2016-12-21', u'Disturbance events can often create an environment that allows invasive species to colonize, particularly on susceptible island ecosystems. An increasingly common form are anthropogenic disturbances, which are caused by human interactions with the environment. The \u2018Opunohu Valley on the island of Mo\u2019orea, French Polynesia experiences continuous disturbance events in the form of forest clearing for archaeological excavations and mapping. This study examined whether archaeological clearing events increased the number of invasive plants during secondary regrowth by surveying four previously clear-cut archaeological sites for invasive vascular plants. There appeared to be no difference across treatments when looking at non-native species, but there was a difference in recent invaders. There was high variation between sites, indicating a possible confounding variable of previous habitation use or number of times cleared which varied across sites. The highest proportion of invasive species were found in a site that was repeatedly cleared for tourism purposes. Cleared archaeological sites overall had no effect on the invasion of non-native species, but may have helped distribute more recent invasive species. Thus, forest management organizations should take more precautions when conducting archaeological clearing and rebuilding prehistoric sites.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2649/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Coupled Natural and Human Systems'], [u'College of Natural Resources, University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'Formatting Open Science: agile creation of multiple document types by writing academic manuscripts in pandoc markdown', ['Albert Krewinkel', 'Robert Winkler'], u'2016-12-20', u'The timely publication of scientific results is essential for dynamic advances in science. The ubiquitous availability of computers which are connected to a global network made the rapid and low-cost distribution of information through electronic channels possible. New concepts, such as Open Access publishing and preprint servers are currently changing the traditional print media business towards a community-driven peer production. However, the cost of scientific literature generation, which is either charged to readers, authors or sponsors, is still high. The main active participants in the authoring and evaluation of scientific manuscripts are volunteers, and the cost for online publishing infrastructure is close to negligible. A major time and cost factor though is the formatting of manuscripts in the production stage. In this article we demonstrate the feasibility to write scientific manuscripts in plain markdown (MD) text files, which can be easily converted into common publication formats, such as PDF, HTML or EPUB, using pandoc. The simple syntax of markdown assures the long-term readability of raw files and the development of software and workflows. We show the implementation of typical elements of scientific manuscripts -- formulas, tables, code blocks and citations -- and present tools for editing, collaborative writing and version control. We give an example on how to prepare a manuscript with distinct output formats, a DOCX file for submission to a journal and a LATEX/PDF version for deposition as a PeerJ preprint. Reducing the work spent on manuscript formatting translates directly to time and cost savings for writers, publishers, readers and sponsors. Therefore, the adoption of the MD format contributes to the agile production of open science literature.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2648/', ['Human-Computer Interaction', 'Computer Education', 'Computer Networks and Communications', 'Digital Libraries', 'World Wide Web and Web Science'], [u'Pandoc Development Team', u'Biotechnology and Biochemistry, CINVESTAV Unidad Irapuato']]
