[u'The skin microbiome of cow-nose rays (Rhinoptera bonasus) in an aquarium touch-tank exhibit', ['Patrick J Kearns', 'Jennifer L Bowen', 'Michael F Tlusty'], u'2016-08-05', u'Public aquarium exhibits offer numerous educational opportunities for visitors while touch tank exhibits offer guests the ability to directly interact with marine life. However, despite the popularity of these exhibits, the effect of human interactions on the host-associated microbiome or the habitat microbiome remains unclear. Microbial communities, both host-associated and habitat associated can have great implications for host health and habitat function. To better understand the link between human interactions and the microbiome of a touch tank we used high-throughput sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene to analyze the microbial community on the dorsal and ventral surfaces of cow-nose rays (Rhinoptera bonasus) as well as its environment in a frequently visited touch tank exhibit at the New England Aquarium. Our analyses revealed a distinct microbial community associated with the skin of the ray that had lower diversity than the surrounding habitat. The ray skin was dominated by three orders: Burkholderiales (~55%), Flavobacteriales (~19%) and Pseudomonadales (~12%), suggesting a potentially important role of these taxa in ray health. Further, there was no difference between dorsal and ventral surface of the ray in terms of microbial composition or diversity, and a very low presence of common human-associated microbial taxa (<1.5%). Our results suggest that human contact has a minimal effect on the skin and habitat microbiome of the cow-nose ray and that the ray skin harbors a distinct and lower diversity microbial community than its environment.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2341/', ['Microbiology', 'Zoology'], [u'Biology Department, University of Massachusetts Boston', u'John H. Prescott Marine Lab, Anderson Cabot Center for Ocean Life, New England Aquarium', u'School for the Environment, University of Massachusetts Boston']]
[u'How does paw pad of Canine attenuate ground impacts: a micromechanical finite element study', ['Huaibin Miao', 'Jun Fu', 'Zhihui Qian', 'Luquan Ren', 'Lei Ren'], u'2016-08-04', u"Background. Digitigraded mammals, e.g. dogs and cats, stand or walk on their digits or toes. Their paw pads beneath the digits or toes, rather than the entire sole of the foot, are in contact with the ground surface during locomotion. Digitigrades generally move more quickly and quietly than other animals. So far, little is known about the micro-scale structural characteristics of digitigrades' paw pads and its connection with the superior biomechanical functioning of their feet.\nMethods. In this study, we investigated the micro-structure of the paw pad of German shepherd dog (GSD) using SEM and histological examination, and assessed the biomechanical functions of the micro-structured epidermis layer by using dynamic finite element (FE) simulations.\nResults. We found that there exists a thick layer of stratified epithelium of a honeycomb like structure with conical protuberances (i.e. dermal papilla) embedded in each cell unit. Our FE simulation analyses revealed that this specially structured layer is capable of effectively attenuating the ground impact across a range of impact velocities. Moreover, this cushioning capacity becomes more pronounced with increased impact velocity. More importantly, this layer can also significantly reduce the mechanical stress transmitting to the soft dermal papillae and dermis by using an off-loading mechanism.\nDiscussion. This would provide more insights into the biomechanical functioning of the digitigrade's paw pads, and also facilitate the development of bio-inspired ground contacting components of robots and machines, and also the design of footwear and orthotics devices.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2340/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Zoology'], [u'Key Laboratory of  Bionic Engineering, Jilin University', u'School of Mechanical, Aerospace and Civil Engineering, University of Manchester']]
[u'Landsat Satellite Observations and Crowd-Sourced Data Provide Near Real-Time Monitoring of Chimpanzee Habitat', ['Lilian Pintea', 'Samuel Martin Jantz', 'Janet Ruth Nackoney', 'Matthew C Hansen'], u'2016-08-04', u"The endangered chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes) is threatened by habitat loss from resource extraction and land conversion, as well as illegal bushmeat hunting and disease. It has been estimated that more than 70% of chimpanzee's tropical forest habitats in Africa are now threatened by human-induced land use change. Recent developments in remote sensing and cloud computing enable the use of satellite observations to provide a synoptic view of chimpanzee habitats at finer spatial and temporal resolutions that are locally relevant and consistent across the entire species\u2019 range. We present a practical Decision Support System to be used by the Jane Goodall Institute and partners to annually monitor and forecast chimpanzee habitat health in Africa. The system integrates Earth observations from 30-meter resolution Landsat data with a species-specific habitat model and a model forecasting future land use change, enhanced by crowd-sourced field data collected by local communities and rangers using the Open Data Kit app and Android mobile smartphones and tablets. Current habitat health status of the chimpanzee in Africa between 2000 and 2014 and future habitat health until 2030 will be presented and discussed. While coarser-scale and static chimpanzee habitat models have been previously developed, this project is the first to develop a dynamic monitoring system updated annually via Earth observations data that will systematically monitor threats and changes in habitat over time.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2339/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Conservation Science, the Jane Goodall Institute', u'Department of Geographical Sciences, University of Maryland']]
[u'Worldwide exploration of the microbiome harbored by the cnidarian model, Exaiptasia pallida indicates a lack of bacterial association specificity at a lower taxonomic rank', ['Tanya Brown', 'Christopher Otero', 'Alejandro Grajales', 'Estefania Rodriguez', 'Mauricio Rodriguez-Lanetty'], u'2016-08-04', u'Examination of host-microbe interactions in basal metazoans, such as cnidarians is of great interest from an evolutionary perspective to understand how host-microbial consortia have evolved. To address this problem, we analyzed whether the bacterial community associated with the cosmopolitan and model sea anemone Exaiptasia pallida shows specific patterns across worldwide populations ranging from the Caribbean Sea, and the Atlantic and Pacific oceans. By comparing sequences of the V1-V4 hypervariable regions of the bacterial 16S rRNA gene, we revealed that anemones host a complex and diverse microbial community. When examined at the phylum level, bacterial diversity and abundance associated with E. pallida are broadly conserved across geographic space with samples, containing largely Proteobacteria and Bacteroides. However, the species-level makeup within these phyla differs drastically across space suggesting a high-level core microbiome with local adaptation of the constituents. Indeed, no bacterial OTU was ubiquitously found in all anemones samples. We also revealed changes in the microbial community structure after rearing anemone specimens in captivity within a period of four months. These results contrast with the postulation that cnidarian hosts might actively select and maintain species-specific microbial communities that could have resulted from an intimate co-evolution process. Instead, our findings suggest that environmental settings, not host specificity seem to dictate bacterial community structure associated with this sea anemone. More than maintaining a specific composition of bacterial species some cnidarians associate with a wide range of bacterial species as long as they provide the same physiological benefits towards the maintenance of a healthy host. The examination of the previously uncharacterized bacterial community associated with the cnidarian sea anemone model E. pallida is the first global-scale study of its kind.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2338/', ['Marine Biology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Biological Sciences, Florida International University', u'Invertebrate Zoology, American Museum of Natural History']]
[u'A non-destructive technique for chemical mapping of insect inclusions in amber', ['Anezka Popovski Kolaceke', 'Ryan C McKellar', 'Mauricio Barbi'], u'2016-08-04', u'Synchrotron-based techniques offer a wealth of elemental, molecular, and structural insights in biological samples, but the application of these techniques to fossils is a relatively new development. Here we examine how Synchrotron Radiation Micro X-Ray Fluorescence (SR \xb5XRF) provides insights into the chemical composition of insects trapped in amber, while leaving the inclusions unaltered. By analyzing a series of ants (Hymenoptera: Formicidae) that range from modern material, to Eocene Baltic amber, and Late Cretaceous North Carolina amber, we investigate how variable preservation influences the results obtained through SR \xb5XRF analyses, as well as the various merits and pitfalls associated with the application of this technique to amber inclusions. The initial results from this line of research are encouraging. They provide new avenues to study elements that are original to the specimens involved, as well as those generated through decay, or introduced during taphonomic processes. This new technique also suggests a range of complementary techniques that may allow future studies to pursue traces of original colour and cuticular reinforcement in amber inclusions. Ultimately, this work serves as an introduction to the underlying principles, strengths, and limitations associated with applying SR \xb5XRF in a palaeontological context.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2337/', ['Entomology', 'Paleontology', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Physics Department, University of Regina', u'Palaeontology, Royal Saskatchewan Museum', u'Biology Department, University of Regina']]
[u'Bovine tuberculosis in cattle from 1986 to 2012 in and around badger-culled areas of the RBCT', ['David Hendy'], u'2016-08-04', u'In 2007 the Independent Scientific Group (ISG) reported to the UK government the impact on bovine tuberculosis (TB) in cattle of a trial where badgers were culled between 1998 and 2005. This trial, known as the Randomised Badger Culling Trial (RBCT), was performed across 100 km2 (nominal) zones in the West of England. The results were based on a model of new herd incidence data. It was concluded that reactive culling generated overall detrimental effects, while proactive culling achieved very modest overall benefits at the cost of elevated incidence on neighbouring farms.\nThis work looks at more extensive RBCT data to examine if these findings hold true. Instead of presenting the results of a model, this work directly illustrates data supplied in March 2016 by the Animal and Plant Health Agency. Such data covers a greater number of years (1986 to 2012) and includes the prevalence of herd restrictions as well as herd incidence.\nIt appears that whilst cattle TB noticeably reduced in areas subjected to proactive culling, TB did not significantly increase in the surrounding areas. The more limited reactive culls were found to have no significant impact either positively or negatively. This applied to both the treated and surrounding areas.\nThe more extensive data also showed that culling badgers only reduced confirmed TB with no significant impact on unconfirmed TB. This was also found by the ISG in 2007 when using their model.\nThe delay before culling benefit became apparent was about 5 years after the first substantial cull. This has implications for the culls which started in South West England in 2013. If account is taken for the need to average the data, the number of years needed to see TB drop, and the reporting delay, it may not be until September 2023 before the impact of these culls become clear. Also, if culls stop after year four in each zone, this risks benefits falling short of those achieved in the RBCT.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2336/', ['Epidemiology', 'Infectious Diseases', 'Statistics'], [u'No affiliation']]
