[u'Reconstructing historical egocentric social networks in malacology: can eponyms serve as a proxy for contacts?', ['Abraham S Breure'], u'2016-11-11', u'During the 19th and 20th century eponyms have been widely used in taxonomy to honour collectors of material on which new taxa have been based. Also have new taxa been dedicated to author-colleagues. Five cases are discussed to trace the extend of overlap between eponyms and known contacts of the author, using different sources of historical data (source publications of the author, provenance data in collections, correspondence archive, reprint administration). Authors have had personal preferences in the extend to which they dedicated eponyms to persons they were in contact, either indirectly (field collectors) or directly (field collectors, cabinet collectors or collegial authors). Eponyms named after a person who is known to have authored malacological papers strongly suggests that there was contact between the two authors (correspondence and/or exchange of material). If eponyms were given in reciprocation their contacts were likely to be relatively strong. Eponyms may be used as a proxy for contacts of the author if the contextual information is taken into account.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2587/', ['Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Naturalis Biodiversity Center', u'Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences']]
[u'Platelets, atherothrombosis, and atherosclerosis', ['Karl Egan', 'Fionnuala Ni Ainle', 'Dermot Kenny'], u'2016-11-11', u'Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. In 2008 alone, 17.3 million deaths (representing 30% of all deaths) were attributable to the complications of cardiovascular disease. Of these deaths, 7.3 million were due to coronary artery disease while 6.2 million were attributable to stroke. Cardiovascular disease is expected to remain the leading cause of death globally, with the number of deaths expected to reach 23.6 million annually by 2030 (WHO statistics, 2012). Vascular disease arises through the complications of atherosclerosis, a complex chronic inflammatory condition affecting the arterial circulation. It leads to the development of vascular lesions or atherosclerotic plaques, which manifest as asymmetrical thickenings of the intima of medium to large sized elastic and muscular arteries. Arterial thrombosis on ruptured atherosclerotic plaques can lead to acute events, such as myocardial infarction (MI) and ischemic stroke. Platelets are the key cellular component of arterial thrombi with platelet adhesion under high shear conditions being central to atherothrombosis. In addition, platelets play a role in the progression of atherosclerosis. In this review, we will discuss the evidence for the role of platelets in atherothrombosis, notably the efficacy of antiplatelet agents in the prevention of ischemic events, and finally their role in the progression of atherosclerosis (atherogenesis).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2586/', ['Cell Biology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Cardiology', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'School of Medicine and Medical Sciences, University College Dublin', u'Molecular and Cellular Therapeutics, Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland']]
