[u'Walking on the Moon', ['Irene Lia Schlacht', 'Jorn Rittweger', 'Bernard H. Foing', 'Martin Daumer', 'Melchiorre Masali'], u'2016-06-11', u'How high do we jump on the Moon? Should we build architecture with steps or should we support climbing? The hypogravity will lead to vestibular system malfunction, loss of muscular mass, and stiffness of the legs, negatively affecting a person\u2019s balance: Yes, we can climb, but we can also easily lose our balance and trip up.\nTo avoid all of this, we need to better understand gait and balance on the Moon. This research will investigate a methodology that focuses on the collection of basic anthropometrical and postural data needed to develop interfaces for the Moon and Mars gravity environments and habitat.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2119/', ['Anatomy and Physiology', 'Kinesiology'], [u'Human Factors Research & Development for extreme, Politecnico di Milano', u'Space Physiology, German Aerospace Center (DLR)', u'Space Science, ESA', u'Sylvia Lawry Centre e.V. \u2013  The Human Motion Institute', u'Anthropology, Universit\xe0 degli Studi di Torino']]
[u'Fishing degrades size structure of coral reef fish communities', ['James PW Robinson', 'Ivor D Williams', 'Andrew M Edwards', 'Jana McPherson', 'Lauren Yeager', 'Laurent Vigliola', 'Russell E Brainard', 'Julia K Baum'], u'2016-06-10', u'Fishing pressure on coral reef ecosystems has been frequently linked to reductions of large fishes and reef fish biomass. Associated impacts on overall community structure are, however, less clear. In size-structured aquatic ecosystems, fishing impacts are commonly quantified using size spectra, which describe the distribution of individual body sizes within a community. We examined the size spectra of coral reef fish communities at 38 US-affiliated Pacific islands, spanning from near pristine to highly human populated. Reef fish community size spectra slopes \u2018steepened\u2019 steadily with increasing human population and proximity to market due to a reduction in the relative biomass of large fishes and an increase in the dominance of small fishes. In contrast, total fish community biomass was substantially lower on inhabited islands than uninhabited ones, regardless of human population density. Comparing the relationship between size spectra and reef fish biomass, we found that on populated islands size spectra steepened linearly with declining biomass, whereas on uninhabited islands size spectra and biomass were unrelated. Size spectra slopes also were steeper in regions of low sea surface temperature but were insensitive to variation in other environmental and geomorphic covariates. In contrast, reef fish biomass was highly sensitive to biophysical conditions, being influenced by oceanic productivity, sea surface temperature, island type, and habitat complexity. Our results suggest that community size structure is more robust than total fish biomass to increasing human presence and that size spectra are reliable indicators of exploitation impacts across regions of different fish community compositions, environmental drivers, and fisheries types. Size-based approaches that link directly to functional properties of fish communities, and are relatively insensitive to abiotic variation across biogeographic regions, offer great potential for developing our understanding of fishing impacts in coral reef ecosystems.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2118/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Biology, University of Victoria', u'Coral Reef Ecosystem Program, Pacific Islands Fisheries Science Center, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration', u'Pacific Biological Station, Fisheries and Oceans Canada', u'Department of Biology, University of Victoria', u'Calgary Zoological Society, Centre for Conservation Research', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Simon Fraser University', u'National Socio-Environmental Synthesis Center', u'UMR ENTROPIE, Laboratoire d\u2019Excellence LABEX CORAIL, Institut de Recherche pour le D\xe9veloppement (IRD)']]
