[u'Songbird perception and production in anthropogenic noise', ['Darren S Proppe'], u'2016-08-23', u'Urban habitats are characterized by a number of unique environmental variables, including modified vegetative structure, fragmentation, small patch size, invasive species, and higher levels of anthropogenic noise. Many songbird species are found less frequently in these types of habitats, but this pattern is far from universal. This has led many to ask whether common urban species are more adaptable in novel environments, or whether this subset of species has been pre-adapted for urban survival. Much of my own research has been geared towards understanding the effects of anthropogenic noise on songbirds and determining which, if any, song traits facilitate higher urban persistence. However, perception of bird sounds is only a small piece of the soundscape a songbird must navigate. Other sounds, such as predator calls, may also be hampered by anthropogenic noise. Yet, less is known about how noise effects communication networks beyond the sender-receiver relationship. I will present results from a series of experiments designed to examine whether pitch and temporal plasticity can be utilized by songbirds to adapt to high levels of noise, then turn my attention towards perception, examining whether urban songbirds can perceive an aerial predator in the midst of increased noise. Finally, I ask whether we can manipulated natural behavior patterns to increase songbird diversity despite the apparent disparity in some traits between species which inhabit urban areas and those that do not.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2387/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Coupled Natural and Human Systems'], [u'Biology Department, Calvin College']]
[u'Evidence for high inter-generational individual quality in yellow-eyed penguins', ['Aviva M Stein', 'Melanie J. Young', 'John Darby', 'Philip John Seddon', 'Yolanda van Heezik'], u'2016-08-23', u'Longitudinal studies focusing on lifetime reproductive success (LRS) have been used to measure individual breeding performance and identify commonalities among successful breeders. By extending the focus to subsequent generations we identify a proportion of high-quality individuals that contribute disproportionately to the population over multiple generations. We used 23 years of yellow-eyed penguin (Megadyptes antipodes) breeding data from one breeding area to identify the proportion of individual birds that raised successful breeders, which in turn raised offspring that bred successfully. We explored which life-history components influenced lifetime reproductive success, as this knowledge would enable conservation resources to be focused on high-performing individuals in this endangered population. From 2147 birds marked as chicks, 370 (17.2%) survived to adulthood and recruited to their natal location, of which 219 (10.2%) fledged offspring: 124 (56.6%) of the 219 birds produced offspring that recruited as breeders. Only 102 birds (4.8% of 2147) fledged first-generation offspring that in turn fledged offspring (second-generation offspring, or grand-offspring). We found that c. 26% of the birds that survived to breed had above-average LRS as well as above-average numbers of grand-offspring, and were more likely to have produced first-generation chicks that recruited and also produced above-average numbers of second-generation chicks. Our findings suggest that there is a core of \u201csuper-breeders\u201d that contribute disproportionately to the population over successive generations. Lifespan and age-at-first-breeding were correlated with LRS. We suggest that traits of birds relating to longevity, health (e.g. immunocompetence) and fitness could be examined to identify potential links with high LRS and inter-generational fecundity. \u201cSuper-breeders\u201d appear to consistently balance high LRS with long- life-span in a stochastic environment, demonstrating greater resilience in the face of extreme events.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2386/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Zoology Department, University of Otago', u'Otago Museum']]
