[u'Diverse origins of high copy tandem repeats in grass genomes', ['Paul Bilinski', 'Yonghua Han', 'Matthew B Hufford', 'Anne Lorant', 'Pingdong Zhang', 'Jiming Jiang', 'Jeffrey Ross-Ibarra'], u'2016-07-22', u'In studying genomic architecture, highly repetitive regions have historically posed a challenge when investigating sequence variation and content. High-throughput sequencing has enabled researchers to use whole-genome shotgun sequencing to estimate the abundance of repetitive sequence, and these methodologies have been recently applied to centromeres. Here, we utilize sequence assembly and read mapping to identify and quantify the genomic abundance of different tandem repeat sequences. Previous research has posited that the highest abundance tandem repeat in eukaryotic genomes is often the centromeric repeat, and we pair our bioinformatic pipeline with fluorescent in-situ hybridization data to test this hypothesis. We find that de novo assembly and bioinformatic filters can successfully identify repeats with homology to known tandem repeats. Fluorescent in-situ hybridization, however, shows that de novo assembly fails to identify novel centromeric repeats, instead identifying other potentially important repetitive sequences. Together, our results test the applicability and limitations of using de novo repeat assembly of tandem repeats to identify novel centromeric repeats. Building on our findings of genomic composition, we also set forth a method for exploring the repetitive regions of non-model genomes whose diversity limits the applicability of established genetic resources.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2314/', ['Genetics', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of Plant Sciences, University of California, Davis', u'School of Life Sciences, Jiangsu Normal University', u'Department of Horticulture, University of Wisconsin-Madison', u'Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Organismal Biology, Iowa State University', u'College of Bioscience and Biotechnology, Beijing Forestry University', u'Department of Plant Sciences, Center for Population Biology, and Genome Center, University of California, Davis']]
[u'Demographic, ecological and physiological responses of ringed seals to an abrupt decline in sea ice availability', ['Steven H Ferguson', 'Brent G Young', 'David J Yurkowski', 'Randi Anderson', 'Cornelia Willing', 'Ole Nielsen'], u'2016-07-22', u'To assess whether demographic declines of Arctic species at the southern limit of their range will be gradual or punctuated, we compared large-scale environmental patterns including sea ice dynamics to ringed seal (Pusa hispida ) reproduction, body condition, recruitment, and stress in Hudson Bay from 2003-2013. Aerial surveys suggested a gradual decline in seal density from 1995-2013, with the lowest density occurring in 2013. Body condition decreased and stress (cortisol) increased over time in relation to longer open waterperiods. The 2010 open water period in Hudson Bay coincided with extremes in large-scale atmospheric patterns (NAO, AO, ENSO) resulting in the earliest spring breakup and the latest ice formation on record. The warming event was coincident with the highest stress levels and the lowest recorded ovulation rate and low pregnancy rate, few pups in the Inuit harvest, and observations of sick seals. We conclude that although negative demographic responses of Hudson Bay seals are occurring gradually with diminishing sea ice, a recent episodic environmental event played a significant role in a punctuated population decline.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2309/', ['Biogeography', 'Conservation Biology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Fisheries and Oceans Canada', u'Department of Biological Sciences, University of Manitoba', u'Centre for Earth Observation Science, University of Manitoba']]
[u'Using touchscreens to explore the welfare and cognition of zoo-housed primates', ['Crystal L Egelkamp', 'Lydia M Hopper', 'Katherine A Cronin', 'Sarah L Jacobson', 'Stephen R Ross'], u'2016-07-22', u'Annually, over 180 million people visit zoos accredited by the Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA), giving them the chance to see a variety of primate species and to learn about their behavior and ecology. In the past decade, some zoos have also become increasingly involved in conducting high-quality cognitive research that not only contributes to the academic literature, but also increases our knowledge of captive primate care. Using technology such as touchscreen computers, scientists are able to explore a range of primate cognitive abilities through different types of computer tasks. In 2004, Lincoln Park Zoo scientists began a comparative touchscreen research program with resident Western-lowland gorillas (Gorilla gorilla gorilla) and chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes). In 2015, this research program was expanded to include Japanese macaques (Macaca fuscata). This applied and comparative research is exploring several facets of primate cognition: serial learning, prosociality, affective states, and individual preferences. The purpose of this research is threefold: to learn more about primates\u2019 cognitive abilities; to develop new ways to assess and positively impact primate welfare; and to facilitate public engagement with science. Both the macaque and ape facilities at Lincoln Park Zoo were designed specifically to accommodate touchscreen research that could be conducted in view of zoo guests while the primates remain in their social group during voluntary testing sessions. The cognitive research demonstrations are interpreted by zoo educators every weekday, where guests can observe the primates working on the touchscreens, and ask questions about the research. This zoo-based cognitive research program offers benefits to scientists, zoo visitors as well as to the animals themselves, as the research strives to improve the care and management of program participants.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2312/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Zoology'], [u'Lester E. Fisher Center, Lincoln Park Zoo']]
[u'African meliponine bees (Hymenoptera: Apidae) maintained in man-made hives as potential hosts for the small hive beetle, Aethina tumida Murray (Coleoptera: Nitidulidae)', ['Bridget O Bobadoye', 'Fombong T. Ayuka', 'Nkoba Kiatoko', 'Suresh Raina', 'Peter Teal', 'Baldwyn Torto'], u'2016-07-22', u'Previous studies have shown that natural honeybee and bumble bee colonies are hosts of the small hive beetle (SHB) Aethina tumida, a pest of honeybee colonies in various regions of the world. Recent studies also reported the presence of SHBs in colonies of certain meliponine bee species. In this study, we investigated whether SHBs detect odors of African meliponine bees and their hive matrix components. We also compared the chemical profiles of the honeybee Apis mellifera scutellata and meliponine bee odors in order to identify common potential semiochemicals between the two bee species. We used dual-choice olfactometric assays to test the responses of adult male and female SHBs to intact colony odors from six meliponine bee species, namely Hypotrigona gribodoi, Meliponula ferruginea (black), M. ferruginea (reddish-brown), Plebeina hildbrandti, M. bocandei and M. lendiliana and their hive matrix components including pot honey, pot pollen, cerumen (involucrum) and propolis (batumen). We found that female SHBs responded more strongly to odors from intact colonies, pot honey and pollen from five out of the six species tested than male beetles. Chemical analysis identified several common components in colony odors emitted by both honeybees and a representative meliponine bee species, M. ferruginea (black). In particular, nine of these common components previously have been shown in honeybee volatiles to be semiochemicals for the SHB, suggesting that African meliponine bees can also serve as potential alternate hosts for the beetle. The implications of these results are discussed in the context of domesticating African meliponine bees in man-made hives for the pollination of crops.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2310/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology', 'Entomology'], [u'International Centre of Insect Physiology and Ecology (icipe), P.O. Box 30772-00100', u'Department of Entomology, College of Biological and Physical Sciences , P.O. Box 30197-00100, Chiromo Campus, University of Nairobi', u'Center for Medical, Agricultural and Veterinary Entomology, 1600/1700 SW 23rd, Gainesville, FL 32606, USDA/ARS']]
[u'Seasonal shifts in accumulation of glycerol biosynthetic gene transcripts in mountain pine beetle, Dendroctonus ponderosae Hopkins (Coleoptera: Curculionidae), larvae', ['Jordie D Fraser', 'Tiffany R Bonnett', 'Christopher I Keeling', 'Dezene P Huber'], u'2016-07-22', u'Winter mortality is a major factor regulating population size of the mountain pine beetle, Dendroctonus ponderosae Hopkins (Coleoptera: Curculionidae). Glycerol is the major cryoprotectant in this freeze intolerant insect. We report findings from a gene expression study on an overwintering mountain pine beetle population over the course of 35 weeks. mRNA transcript levels suggest glycerol production in the mountain pine beetle occurs through glycogenolytic, gluconeogenic and potentially glyceroneogenic pathways, but not from metabolism of lipids. A two-week lag period between fall glycogen phosphorylase transcript and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase transcript up-regulation suggests that gluconeogenesis serves as a secondary glycerol-production process, subsequent to exhaustion of the primary glycogenolytic source. These results provide a first look at the details of seasonal gene expression related to the production of glycerol in the mountain pine beetle.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2311/', ['Ecology', 'Entomology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Ecosystem Science and Management Program, University of Northern British Columbia', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Simon Fraser University', u'Michael Smith Laboratories, University of British Columbia']]
[u'Aspects of the gorgonopsian paleobiology: insights from the basicranium, occiput, osseous labyrinth and neuroanatomy of the immature gorgonopsian skull of Aloposaurus gracilis (Therapsida: Theriodontia: Gorgonopsia)', ['Ricardo M Araujo', 'Vincent Fernandez', 'Michael J Polcyn', 'Jorg Frobisch', 'Rui M.S. Martins'], u'2016-07-22', u'Synapsida, the clade including therapsids and thus also mammals, is one of the two major branches of amniotes. Organismal design, with modularity as a concept, offers insights into the evolution of therapsids, a group that experienced profound anatomical transformations throughout the past 270Ma, eventually leading to the evolution of the mammalian bauplan. However, the anatomy of some therapsid groups remains obscure. Gorgonopsian braincase anatomy remains poorly known, and aspects of their brain anatomy, cranial nerves and vasculature, osseous labyrinth persist unknown. By using propagation phase contrast synchrotron micro-computed tomography, we scanned GPIT/RE/7124, a specimen previously reported as Aloposaurus gracilis. We explored the anatomy of the braincase and rendered the anatomy of the various skull cavities. Notably, we found that there is a separate ossification between what was previously referred as the \u201cparasphenoid\u201d and the basioccipital. This element is reinterpreted as a posterior ossification of the basisphenoid, the basi-postsphenoid. Additionally the previously called \u201cparasphenoid\u201d is in fact the co-ossification of the dermal parasphenoid and the endochondral basi-presphenoid. The anatomy of the osseous labyrinth is rendered in detail, revealing a unique discoid morphology of the horizontal semicircular canal, rather than toroidal, probably due to architectural contraints of the ossification of the opisthotic and supraoccipital. In addition, the orientation of the horizontal semicircular canal suggests an anteriorly tilted alert head posture. The morphology of the brain endocast is in accordance with the more reptilian endocast shape of other non-mammaliaform neotherapsids.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2313/', ['Developmental Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Neuroscience', 'Paleontology', 'Anatomy and Physiology'], [u'Instituto de Plasmas e Fus\xe3o Nuclear, Universidade de Lisboa', u'Museum f\xfcr Naturkunde - Leibniz-Institut f\xfcr Evolutions- und Biodiversit\xe4tsforschung', u'GEAL - Museu da Lourinh\xe3', u'Southern Methodist University', u'European Synchrotron Research Facility', u'Huffington Department of Earth Sciences, Southern Methodist University', u'Institut f\xfcr Biologie, Humboldt Universit\xe4t Berlin', u'Instituto de Plasmas e Fus\xe3o Nuclear, Universidade de Lisboa', u'CENIMAT/I3N, Universidade Nova de Lisboa']]
