[u'Prediction of amyloidogenicity based on the n-gram analysis', ['Micha Jan  Burdukiewicz', 'Piotr Sobczyk', 'Stefan Rodiger', 'Anna Duda-Madej', 'Pawe Mackiewicz', 'Malgorzata  Kotulska'], u'2016-08-24', u"Amyloids are proteins associated with the number of clinical disorders (e.g., Alzheimer's, Creutzfeldt-Jakob's and Huntington's diseases). Despite their diversity, all amyloid proteins can undergo aggregation initiated by 6- to 15-residue segments, called hot spots. To find the patterns defining the hot-spots, we trained predictors of amyloidogenicity, using n-grams and random forest classifiers, based on data collected in the AmyLoad database. Only the most informative n-grams, selected by our Quick Permutation Test, were considered. Since the amyloidogenicity may not depend on the exact sequence of amino acids but on more general properties of amino acids, we tested 524,284 reduced amino acid alphabets of different lengths (three to six letters) to find the alphabet providing the best performance in cross-validation. The predictor based on this alphabet, called AmyloGram, was benchmarked against the most popular tools for the detection of amyloid peptides using an external data set and obtained the highest values of performance measures (AUC: 0.90, MCC: 0.63). Our results showed sequential patterns in the amyloids, which are strongly correlated with hydrophobicity, a tendency to form \xdf-sheets and rigidity of amino acid residues. Among the most informative n-grams of AmyloGram we identified 15 that were already confirmed experimentally. AmyloGram is available as a web-server: www.smorfland.uni.wroc.pl/amylogram/. The code and results are publicly available at: www.github.com/michbur/prediction_amyloidogenicity_ngram/.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2390/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Department of Genomics, University of Wroc\u0142aw', u'Faculty of Pure and Applied Mathematics, Wroc\u0142aw University of Science and Technology', u'Institute of Biotechnology, Brandenburg University of Technology Cottbus-Senftenberg', u'Department of Microbiology, Wroc\u0142aw Medical University', u'Department of Biomedical Engineering, Wroc\u0142aw University of Science and Technology']]
[u'Analyzing and characterization of the chloroplast genome of Salix suchowensis', ['Congrui Sun', 'Jie Li', 'Xiaogang Dai', 'Yingnan Chen'], u'2016-08-24', u'By screening sequence reads from the chloroplast (cp) genome of S. suchowensis that generated by the next generation sequencing platforms, we built the complete circular pseudomolecule for its cp genome. This pseudomolecule is 155,508 bp in length, which has a typical quadripartite structure containing two single copy regions, a large single copy region (LSC 84,385 bp), and a small single copy region (SSC 16,209 bp) separated by inverted repeat regions (IRs 27,457 bp). Gene annotation revealed that the cp genome of S. suchowensis encoded 119 unique genes, including 4 ribosome RNA genes, 30 transfer RNA genes, 82 protein-coding genes and 3 pseudogenes. Analyzing the repetitive sequences detected 15 tandem repeats, 16 forward repeats and 5 palindromic repeats. In addition, a total of 188 perfect microsatellites were detected, which were characterized as A/T predominance in nucleotide compositions. Significant shifting of the IR/SSC boundaries was revealed by comparing this cp genome with that of other rosids plants. We also built phylogenetic trees to demonstrate the phylogenetic position of S. suchowensis in Rosidae, with 66 orthologous protein-coding genes presented in the cp genomes of 32 species. By sequencing 30 amplicons based on the pseudomolecule, experimental verification achieved accuracy up to 99.84% for the cp genome assembly of S. suchowensis. In conclusion, this study built a high quality pseudomolecule for the cp genome of S. suchowensis, which is a useful resource for facilitating the development of this shrub willow into a more productive bioenergy crop.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2388/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genomics', 'Plant Science'], [u'College of Forestry, Nanjing Forestry University']]
[u'Reef fish communities of Praia do Tofo, Mozambique, and the need for best practice management', ['Alexander John Fordyce'], u'2016-08-24', u'The coral reefs around Praia do Tofo, southern Mozambique, are known for their aggregations of marine megafauna but as yet few studies have comprehensively examined their broader biodiversity. This study is the first to assess the ichthyofaunal diversity of this economically important area. Methodology involved SCUBA and snorkel underwater visual censuses conducted between February and May, 2016, and the use of photographic records from 2015 to capture rare species. A total of 324 species, representing 79 families, were recorded from 16 reefs in the region. The area shows comparable species diversity and notably high family diversity in relation to other areas of the Western Indian Ocean. The trophic structure of the reefs, similar to that recorded in the wider region, suggests the reefs are in good health and fairly resilient to disturbance. This study highlights the area\u2019s high biological value beyond its megafauna and lends support to greater management of these ecosystems for the benefit of the associated human population.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2389/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Marine Megafauna Foundation']]
