[u'Single exponential decay waveform; a synergistic combination of electroporation and electrolysis (E2) for tissue ablation', ['Nina Klein', 'Enric Guenther', 'Paul Mikus', 'Michael K Stehling', 'Boris Rubinsky'], u'2016-10-24', u'Background: Electrolytic ablation and electroporation based ablation are minimally invasive, non-thermal surgical technologies that employ electrical currents and electric fields to ablate undesirable cells in a volume of tissue. In this study we explore the attributes of a new tissue ablation technology that simultaneously delivers a synergistic combination of electroporation and electrolysis (E2).\nMethod: A new device that delivers a controlled dose of electroporation field and electrolysis currents in the form of a single exponential decay waveform (EDW), was applied to the pig liver and the effect of various parameters on the extent of tissue ablation was examined with histology.\nResults: Histological analysis shows that E2 delivered as EDW can produce tissue ablation in volumes of clinical significance, using electrical and temporal parameters which, if used in electroporation or electrolysis separately, cannot ablate the tissue\nDiscussion: The E2 combination has advantages over the three basic technologies of non-thermal ablation: electrolytic ablation, electrochemical ablation (reversible electroporation with injection of drugs) and irreversible electroporation. E2 ablates clinically relevant volumes of tissue in a shorter period of time than electrolysis and electroporation, without the need to inject drugs as in reversible electroporation or use paralyzing anesthesia as in irreversible electroporation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2549/', ['Bioengineering', 'Biophysics', 'Oncology', 'Pathology', 'Histology'], [u'Inter Science GmbH', u'Prostata Center, Institut fur Bildgebende Diagnostik', u'Engineering, University of California, Berkeley', u'Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'Bax-inhibitor-1 loss of function phenotypes are suppressed by Buffy in Drosophila', ["P Githure M'Angale", 'Brian E Staveley'], u'2016-10-24', u'Background. Bax Inhibitor-1 (BI-1), an integral transmembrane protein, acts as a suppressor of Bax-induced apoptosis through regulation of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress-induced cell death. The gene is highly conserved being found in a diverse range of organisms that include yeast, Arabidopsis, Drosophila, mouse and humans. BI-1 is implicated in the regulation of calcium levels, reactive oxygen species, apoptosis, autophagy and ER stress signalling pathways. We inhibited the cytoprotective BI-1 in the dopa decarboxylase (Ddc) expressing neurons and in the developing eye of Drosophila melanogaster to investigate its neuroprotective functions. Methods. We assessed the longevity and locomotor ability of flies in response to altered BI-1 expression in the Ddc-Gal4-expressing neurons where we exploited two RNAi transgenic fly lines. A control that expressed the benign lacZ responding transgene was used to compare against the RNAi transgenic flies. In addition, we compared the effect of the loss of BI-1 expression in the developing eye, through biometric analysis of the number of ommatidia and extent of disruption of the ommatidial arrays. Finally, Buffy and \u03b1-synuclein were co-expressed to evaluate the potential for interactions. Results. The inhibition of BI-1 in these neurons resulted in a shortened lifespan and precocious loss of locomotor ability. The co-expression of Buffy, the sole anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 homologue in Drosophila, with BI-1-RNAi resulted in suppression of the reduced lifespan and impaired climbing ability. Expression of human \u03b1-synuclein in Drosophila dopaminergic neurons results in age-dependent loss in climbing ability. We exploited this neurotoxic system to investigate possible BI-1 neuroprotective function. The co-expression of \u03b1-synuclein with BI-1-RNAi results in decreased survival coupled with an impaired climbing ability. In supportive experiments, we employed the neuron-rich Drosophila compound eye to investigate subtle phenotypes that result from altered gene expression. The inhibition of BI-1 in the Drosophila developing eye under the direction of the GMR-Gal4 transgene results in reduced ommatidia number and increased disruption of the ommatidial array. Similarly, the co-expression of BI-1-RNAi with Buffy results in the suppression of the eye phenotypes. The expression of \u03b1-synuclein along with the inhibition of BI-1 results in reduction of ommatidia number and increased disruption of the ommatidial array. Conclusions. Inhibition of BI-1 in the dopaminergic neurons of Drosophila results in a shortened lifespan and premature loss in climbing ability, phenotypes that appear to be strongly associated with models of Parkinson disease in Drosophila. These are suppressed upon overexpression of Buffy and worsened by co-expression with \u03b1-synuclein. This suggests that BI-1 acts in neuroprotection and that its inhibition can be counteracted by the overexpression of the pro-survival Bcl-2 homologue, Buffy.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2548/', ['Cell Biology', 'Genetics', 'Neuroscience'], [u'Department of Biology, Memorial University of Newfoundland']]
[u'Crowdsourcing the discovery of software repositories in an educational environment', ['Yuxing Ma', 'Tapajit Dey', 'Jarred M Smith', 'Nathan Wilder', 'Audris Mockus'], u'2016-10-24', u"In software repository mining, it's important to have a broad representation of projects. In particular, it may be of interest to know what proportion of projects are public. Discovering public projects can be easily parallelized but not so easy to automate due to a variety of data sources. We evaluate the research and educational potential of crowd-sourcing such research activity in an educational setting. Students were instructed on three ways of discovering the projects and assigned a task to discover the list of public projects from top 45 forges with each student assigned to one forge. Students had to discover as many of the projects as they could using the method of their choice and provide a market-research report for a fictional customer based on the attribute they selected. A subset of the results was sampled and verified for accuracy. We found that many of the public forges do not host public projects, that a substantial fraction of forges do not provide APIs and the APIs vary dramatically among the remaining forges. Some forges have been discontinued and others renamed, making the discovery task into an archaeological exercise. The students' findings raise a number of new research questions and demonstrate the teaching potential of the approach. The accuracy of the results obtained, however, was low, suggesting that crowd-sourcing would require at least two or more likely a larger number of investigators per forge or a better way to gauge investigator skill. We expect that these lessons will be helpful in creating education-sourcing efforts in software data discovery.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2551/', ['Computer Education', 'Data Science', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, University of Tennessee-Knoxville']]
