[u'From computer operating systems to biodiversity: co-emergence of ecological and evolutionary patterns', ['Petr Keil', 'Joanne M Bennett', 'Berenger Burgeois', 'Gabriel E Garcia-Pena', 'Andrew M MacDonald', 'Carsten Meyer', 'Kelly S Ramirez', 'Benjamin Yguel'], u'2016-08-17', u'Comparisons between biodiversity and other complex systems can facilitate cross-disciplinary exchange of theories and the identification of key system processes and constraints. For example, due to qualitative structural and functional analogies to biological systems, coupled with good data accessibility, computer operating systems offer opportunities for comparison with biodiversity. However, it remains largely untested if the two systems also share quantitative patterns. Here, we employ analogies between GNU/Linux operating systems (distros) and biological species, and look for a number of well-established ecological and evolutionary patterns in the Linux universe. We demonstrate that patterns of the Linux universe match the macroecological patterns: Linux distro commonness and rarity (popularity of a distro) follow a lognormal distribution, power law mean-variance scaling of temporal fluctuation, and there is a significant relationship between niche breadth (number of software packages) and commonness. The diversity in the Linux universe also follows general macroevolutionary patterns: The number of phylogenetic lineages increases linearly through time, with clear per-species diversification and extinction slowdowns, something that is unobservable in biology. Moreover, the composition of functional traits (software packages) exhibits significant phylogenetic signal. Our study provides foundations for using Linux as a model system for eco-evolutionary studies, as well as insights into patterns and dynamics of computer operating systems, which may be used to inform their future development and maintenance. The co-emergence of patterns across systems suggests that some patterns might be produced by system-level properties, independently of system identity, which offers an empirical argument for non-biological explanations of fundamental biodiversity patterns.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2367/', ['Biodiversity', 'Computational Science'], [u'iDiv - German Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Research, University of Leipzig', u'German Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Research (iDiv)', u'Institute of Biology, Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg', u'Agro\xe9cologie - Agrosup Dijon, Institut national de la recherche agronomique (INRA), Universit\xe9 Bourgogne Franche-Comt\xe9', u'Centre de Synth\xe8se et d\u2019Analyse sur la Biodiversit\xe9 - CESAB', u'Facultad de Medicina Veterinaria y Zootecnia, UNAM', u'Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, Yale University', u'Terrestrial Ecology, Netherlands Institute of Ecology', u'Unit\xe9 MECADEV m\xe9canismes adaptatifs et \xe9volution, UMR 7179 CNRS/MNHN', u"Centre d'Ecologie et des Sciences de la Conservation (CESCO-UMR 7204), Sorbonne Universit\xe9s-MNHN-CNRS-UPMC"]]
[u'Size matters: relationships between body size, dry weight and ash-free dry weight of common coastal, aquatic invertebrates in the Baltic Sea', ['Johan Eklof', 'Asa Austin', 'Ulf Bergstrom', 'Serena Donadi', 'Britas D H K Eriksson', 'Joakim Hansen', 'Goran Sundblad'], u'2016-08-17', u'Background. Organism biomass is one of the most important variables in ecological studies, making estimations of organism weight one of the most common laboratory tasks. Biomass of small macroinvertebrates is usually estimated as dry (DW) or ash-free dry weight (AFDW); a laborious and time consuming process, that often can be speeded up using easily measured and reliable proxy variables like wet/fresh weight and/or body size. Another common way of estimating AFDW - which is the most accurate but also time-consuming estimate of biologically active tissue weight - is the use of AFDW/DW ratios or conversion factors. So far, however, these ratios typically ignore the possibility that the relative weight of biologically active vs. non-active support tissue (e.g. protective exoskeleton or shell) - and therefore, also the AFDW/DW ratio - may change with body size, as previously shown for taxa like spiders, vertebrates and trees.\nMethods. We collected samples of aquatic, epibenthic macroinvertebrates (>1 mm) in 32 shallow bays along a 360 km stretch of the Swedish coast along the Baltic Sea; one of the largest brackish water bodies on Earth. We then estimated statistical relationships between the body size (length or height in mm), dry weight and ash-free dry weight for 14 of the most common taxa; five gastropods, three bivalves, three crustaceans and three insect larvae. Finally, we statistically estimated the potential influence of body size on the AFDW/DW ratio per taxon.\nResults. For most of the taxa, non-linear regression models describing the power relationship between body size and i) DW and ii) AFDW fit the data well (as indicated by low SE and high R2). Moreover, for more than half of the taxa studied (including the vast majority of the shelled molluscs), body size had a negative influence on organism AFDW/DW ratios.\nDiscussion. The good fit of the modelled power relationships suggest that the constants reported here can be used to more quickly estimate organism dry- and ash-free dry weight based on body size, thereby freeing up considerable work resources. However, the considerable differences in constants between taxa emphasize the need for taxon-specific relationships, and the potential dangers associated with either ignoring body size or substituting relationships between taxa. The negative influence of body size on AFDW/DW ratio found in a majority of the molluscs could be caused by increasingly thicker shells with organism age, and/or spawning-induced loss of biologically active tissue in adults. Consequently, future studies utilizing AFDW/DW (and presumably also AFDW/wet weight) ratios should carefully assess the potential influence of body size to ensure more reliable estimates of organism biomass.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2368/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Ecology, Environment and Plant sciences (DEEP), Stockholm University', u'Department of Aquatic Resources, Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences', u'Baltic Sea Centre, Stockholm University', u'Groningen Institute for Evolutionary Life-Sciences GELIFES, University of Groningen', u'Aquabiota Water Research']]
[u'Exploration of immunoglobulin transcriptomes from mice immunized with three-finger toxins and phospholipases A2 from the Central American coral snake, Micrurus nigrocinctus', ['Andreas H Laustsen', 'Mikael Engmark', 'Christopher Clouser', 'Sonia Timberlake', 'Francois Vigneault', 'Jose Maria Gutierrez', 'Bruno Lomonte'], u'2016-08-17', u'Snakebite envenomings represent a neglected public health issue in many parts of the rural tropical world. Animal-derived antivenoms have existed for more than a hundred years and are effective in neutralizing snake venom toxins when timely administered. However, the low immunogenicity of many small but potent snake venom toxins represents a challenge for obtaining a balanced immune response against the medically relevant components of the venom. Here, we employ next generation sequencing of the immunoglobulin (Ig) transcriptome of mice immunized with a three-finger toxin and a phospholipase A2 from the venom of the Central American coral snake, Micrurus nigrocinctus. Results showed that only low frequencies of mRNA encoding IgG isotypes, the most relevant isotype for therapeutic purposes, were present in splenocytes of mice immunized with 6 doses of the toxins over 90 days. Furthermore, analysis of Ig heavy chain transcripts showed that no particular combination of variable (V) and joining (J) gene segments had been selected in the immunization process, as would be expected after a strong humoral immune response to a single antigen. Combined with the titration of toxin-specific antibodies in the sera of immunized mice, these data support the low immunogenicity of three-finger toxins and phospholipases A2 found in elapid snake venoms, and highlight the need for future studies analyzing the complexity of antibody responses to toxins at the molecular level.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2364/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Biotechnology', 'Toxicology', 'Immunology', 'Synthetic Biology'], [u'Department of Biotechnology and Biomedicine, Technical University of Denmark', u'Department of Drug Design and Pharmacology, University of Copenhagen', u'Department of Bio and Health Informatics, Technical University of Denmark', u'Juno Therapeutics', u'Finch Therapeutics', u'AbVitro', u'Instituto Clodomiro Picado, Universidad de Costa Rica']]
[u'Age, growth and population structure of invasive lionfish (Pterois volitans/miles) in northeast Florida using a length-based, age-structured population model', ['Eric G Johnson', 'Mary Katherine Swenarton'], u'2016-08-17', u'The effective management of invasive species requires a detailed understanding of the invader\u2019s life history. This information is essential for modeling population growth and predicting rates of expansion, quantifying ecological impacts and assessing the efficacy of removal and control strategies. Indo-Pacific lionfish (  Pterois volitans/miles  ) have rapidly invaded the western Atlantic, Gulf of Mexico and Caribbean Sea with documented negative impacts on native ecosystems. To better understand the life history of this species, we developed and validated a length-based, age-structured model to investigate age, growth and population structure in northeast Florida. The main findings of this study were: (1) lionfish exhibited rapid growth with seasonal variation in growth rates, (2) distinct cohorts were clearly identifiable in the length-frequency data suggesting that lionfish arerecruiting during a relatively short period in summer, and (3) the majority of lionfish were less than two years old with no lionfish older than 3 years of age, possibly as a result of an ontogenetic shift to deeper water, which may provide a reservoir of spawning biomass not accessible to recreational or commercial spearfishing.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2366/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Biology, University of North Florida']]
[u'Neogene amphibians and reptiles (Caudata, Anura, Gekotta, Lacertilia, Testudines) from south of Western Siberia, Russia and Northeastern Kazakhstan', ['Davit Vasilyan', 'Vladimir Zazhigin', 'Madelaine Bohme'], u'2016-08-17', u'Background. Now-a-day territory of Western Siberia has the poorest diversity of amphibians and reptiles within the Palaearctic Realm, influenced by unfavourable climate. Less is known about the origin and emergence of it. Aside from better-explored European Neogene records of amphibians and reptiles, the Neogene herpetofauna of Western Asia is understudied. The few available studies on amphibian and reptile fossil assemblages need critical reviews and new interpretations considering the latest knowledge of the European record. The comparison with European record will provide data on palaeobiogeographic affiliations of the region as well as origin and emergence of the now-a-day fauna of Western Siberia. Beside these, a study providing overview about the earliest occurences of certain amphibian linages, that can be used for the calibration of the molecular clocks, is missing.\nMethods and Results. The amphibian and reptile fauna from over 40 Western Siberian, Russia and Northeastern Kazakhian localities ranging from Middle Miocene to Early Pleistocene has been studied. In the study the published data has been considered and critically reviewed and newly interpreted. More then 50 amphibian and reptile taxa has been identified belonging to families Hynobiidae, Cryptobranchidae, Salamandridae, Palaeobatrachidae, Bombinatoridae, Pelobatidae, Hylidae, Bufonidae, Ranidae, Gekkonidae, Lacertidae and Emydidae. Palaeobiogeographic analysis for those group has been done. For 12 localities, palaeoprecipitation values have been estimated using the bioclimatic analysis of herpetofaunal assemblage.\nConclusions. The Neogene assemblage of Westren Sibera is dominated by groups (Palaeobatrachidae, Bombina, Hyla, Bufo bufo) with European affinities. A small part of assemblage includes Eastern Palaearctic taxa (e.g. Hynobiidae, Tylototriton, Bufotes viridis, R. arvalis). For several taxa (e.g. Mioproteus, Hyla, Bombina) the Western Siberian records of represent the most east Eurasian records of these groups. The most divers faunas are found in the Middle Miocene, whereas the poorest towards Early Pleistocene. This tendency could be referred to the progressive global cooling of the climate in Northern Hemisphere. Our results showed higher-amplitude changes of precipitation development in Western Siberia from Early Miocene to Pliocene, than earlier assumed.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2365/', ['Biodiversity', 'Biogeography', 'Paleontology', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Geosciences, Eberhard-Karls-University T\xfcbingen', u'JURASSICA Museum', u'Department of Geosciences, University of Fribourg', u'Institute of Geology, Russian Academy of Sciences', u'Senckenberg Center for Human Evolution and Palaeoecology']]
