[u'Identification of \u201con-off residues\u201d in rat Cav1.2 \u03b11C subunit channel using in silico analysis and docking simulation', ['Alfonso Trezza', 'Andrea Bernini', 'Ottavia Spiga'], u'2016-07-08', u'Introduction\nVoltage-dependent calcium channels (VSCC) is involved in important biological function as calcium ion transmembrane transport and cardiac contraction. VSCC is a multi-pass membrane protein, made up from \u03b1-1, \u03b1-2, \u03b2 and \u03b4 subunits. \u03b1-1 subunit regulates the entry of ion calcium. Voltage-dependent L-type calcium channel subunit alpha-1C (Cav1.2 \u03b11C subunit channel) is an isoform of VSCC, and is characterized from an high-voltage activation. Previous study have shown that class of molecules as benzothiazepines (Tikhonov D. et al, 2008), are able to block the alpha-1C subunit. Recent works have demonstrated that molecules belonged at the flavonoid class are able to inhibit or to raise channel activity (Saponara S. et al, 2011). In this work, we reported the sensing- residues that could play a key role in Cav1.2 \u03b11C activity. Furthermore, we proposed a potential mechanism of action inside Cav1.2 \u03b11C binding-site with differences between inhibitors and stimulants. Our work has clarifiedas the ligands operate on Cav1.2 \u03b11C, this information could be useful in order to improve their usefulness.\nMethods\nThe 3D structure of Cav1.2 \u03b11C subunit channel was obtained on basis of previous work (Saponara S. et al, 2015). The structure of flavons were downloaded from Pubchem(Kim S. et al, 2015). Docking simulation was carried out through Autodock/Vina v.1.1.2 (O.Trott et al, 2010). PDBePISAwas used in order to evaluate buried surface area values (B.S.A). Protein-ligand interactions were obtained using protein\u2013ligand interaction profiler (P.L.I.P)(Salentin S. et al, 2015). Pymol was used as molecular graphics system (The PyMOL Molecular Graphics System, Version 1.8 Schr\xf6dinger, LLC.).\nResults and discussion\nI\xad\xad\xad\xad\xadn vitro analysis on rat Cav1.2 L-type channel of 20 flavonoids have shown stimulatory and inhibitory activities (Saponara S. et al, 2015).The 11 inhibitors and 8 stimulators derivatives are positioned in their corresponding binding-sites with peculiar sensing-residues interactions (shown in figure 1). Analyzing the network of interactions among the two classes of flavonoids we have observed hydrogen bonds, hydrophobic interactions and \u03c0\u2013\u03c0 stacking bonds characterizing their activities that could differently promote pore open/closed conformation and decreasing voltage-sensitive calcium channel activity (Tikhonov D. et al, 2009). Furthermore, on the basis of the selectivity filters model, we have evaluated B.S.A residues values present in the\xad\xad\xad binding-sites, we have observed that B.S.A of some residues dramatically decrease, showing that these residues play a key role in the pore stabilization. The different mechanism of action of these molecules can be attributed to their chemical-physical proprieties as steric hindrance and different positions of hydroxyl groups.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2272/', ['Biochemistry', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Department of Biotechnology chemistry and Pharmacy, University of Siena']]
[u'Changes in understory species occurrence of a secondary broadleaved forest after mass mortality of oak trees under deer foraging pressure', ['Hiroki Ito'], u'2016-07-08', u'The epidemic of mass mortality of oak trees has affected secondary deciduous broadleaved forests that have been used as coppices in Japan. The dieback of oak trees formed gaps in the crown that would be expected to enhance the regeneration of shade-intolerant pioneer species. However, foraging by sika deer Cervus nippon has also affected forest vegetation, and the compound effects of both on forest regeneration should be considered when they simultaneously occur. A field study was conducted in Ky\xf4to City, Japan, to investigate how these compound effects affected the vegetation of the understory layer of such a forest. The presence/absence of seedlings and saplings was observed for 200 quadrats sized 5 m \xd7 5 m for each species in 1992, before the mass mortality and deer encroachment, and in 2014 after these effects. A hierarchical Bayesian model was constructed to explain the occurrence, survival, and colonization of each species with their responses to the gaps created or affected by the mass mortality of oak trees. The species that occurred most frequently in 1992, Eurya japonica, Quercus glauca, and Cleyera japonica, also had the highest survival probability. Deer-unpalatable species such as Symplocos prunifolia and Triadica sebifera had higher colonization rates in the gaps, while the deer-palatable species Aucuba japonica had the smallest survival probability. The gaps thus resulted in promoting the colonization of deer-unpalatable plant species such as Symplocos prunifolia and Triadica sebifera. It might be forecasted that such deer-unpalatable species will dominate the gaps created or affected by the mass mortality of oak trees.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2271/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Hokkaido Research Center, Forestry and Forest Products Research Institute']]
[u'Analysis of the interactions of a novel cephalosporin derivative with its potential targets penicillin-binding proteins from different sources using a covalent docking approac', ['Anna Verdino', 'Margherita De Rosa', 'Annunziata Soriente', 'Anna Marabotti'], u'2016-07-08', u'Motivation. Cephalosporins are a class of beta-lactam antibiotics widely used in clinics for their antibacterial activity. Their mode of action, common to other beta lactam antibiotics such as penicillins, is the impairment of the synthesis of the peptidoglycan forming the bacterial cell wall. This polymer, essential for bacterium survival, is made by aminosugars connected by glycosidic bonds to form linear chains, and by short peptides forming cross-links between the linear chains. The enzymes catalyzing the creation of these cross-links are transpeptidases, also called penicillin binding proteins (PBPs) for their ability to interact with penicillins and other beta lactam antibiotics. These molecules mimic the D-Ala-D-Ala terminus of the peptides, therefore they competitively inactivate the PBPs by binding covalently to the Ser residue responsible for the catalysis and stopping the transpeptidation. This results in cell lysis and bacterial death. One of the main problems to face when using cephalosporins is the development of several mechanisms of resistance, either for the reduced affinity of PBPs to the beta lactams, or for the selection of new beta-lactam-insensitive PBPs, or for the production of beta lactamases, enzymes able to hydrolyze the beta lactam ring, thus deactivating the antibiotics. Additionally, most cephalosporins have a limited spectrum of action, against only Gram+ or Gram- bacteria. Therefore, during the time, many new beta lactam antibiotics have been synthesized with the aim of broadening the spectrum of action and/or overcoming the resistance. The prototype of a new group of cephalosporins is AMA-10, in which another beta lactam ring bound to a short alkyl chain has been linked to the aminocephalosporanic ring by means of an amidic bond. In order to develop other molecules, however, it is essential to understand how they interact with their target. Therefore, to apply a rational approach for the design of new derivatives, we have performed a computational study by simulating the binding of AMA-10 to selected PBPs of different species, whose crystallographic structures were available, using a particular approach, covalent docking, able to take into account the covalent bond formed between the antibiotic and the enzyme.\nMethods. The structures of PBP3 and PBP4 from both Gram+ (S. aureus, B. subtilis) and Gram- (E. coli, P. aeruginosae) organisms were downloaded from Protein Data Bank (PDB) database, as well as the structures of beta-lactamase from S. aureus and from E. coli. The representative structures were selected on the basis of their quality. Then, covalent docking was made by using a modified version of the program AutoDock 4.2, using the flexible side chain method [Bianco et al, 2016]. [Abstract truncated at 3,000 characters - the full version is available in the pdf file].', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2270/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Department of Chemistry and Biology "A. Zambelli", University of Salerno']]
[u'Exploiting freely available imagery to improve land cover characterization and shallow landslide detection', ['Stefano Crema', 'Marco Cavalli', 'Giulia Bossi', 'Luca Schenato', 'Lorenzo Marchi'], u'2016-07-08', u'Natural hazards and land management issues can benefit nowadays from the increasing availability of free, high-resolution satellite imagery that opens the way to fine scale detailed investigations. In high elevation catchments the analysis of vegetation dynamics deserves particular attention since little climatic modifications can be amplified in such fragile systems. For the same reasons, the dynamic of instability phenomena as response to an input hydrological forcing, requires a meticulous spatial representation in order to better represent the active processes at catchment scale. The present work focuses on the analysis of high-resolution freely available imagery (Microsoft\xae Bing Maps\u2122 Platform) that enables the characterization of vegetation cover and the automatic mapping of shallow landslides in an alpine catchment. Semi-automatic detection of vegetation is carried out at the fine scale using both orthophotos and freely available satellite imagery. The analysis based on the satellite imagery showed a better accuracy in respect to the one based on the orthophotos. In particular, satellite imagery analysis showed high sensitivity and high specificity even in low illumination conditions, while, for the same circumstances, orthophotos-based analysis shows a significant wrong detection rate. In the framework of a long term, multi-temporal and high-resolution characterization of vegetation cover and for a rapid mapping of shallow instability phenomena, the effectiveness of the proposed approach can speed up the representation of the local conditions towards an improvement of land management strategies and hazard and risk assessment.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2269/', ['Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Spatial and Geographic Information Systems'], [u'IRPI, CNR']]
[u'Psychometric properties of the perceived stress scale (PSS): measurement invariance between athletes and non-athletes and construct validity', ['Yi-Hsiang Chiu', 'Frank Jing-Horng Lu', 'Ju-Han Lin', 'Chiao-Lin Nien', 'Ya-Wen Hsu', 'Hong-Yu Liu'], u'2016-07-08', u'Background: Although Perceived Stress Scale (PSS, Cohen, Kamarack, Mermelstein, 1983) has been validated and widely used in many domains, there is still no validation in sport by comparing athletes and non-athletes and examination of related psychometric indices. Purpose: The purpose of this study was to examine the measurement invariance of PSS between athletes and non-athletes, and examine construct validity in the sport contexts. Methods: Study 1 sampled 359 college student-athletes (males = 233; females = 126) and 242 non-athletes (males=124; females=118) and examined factorial structure, measurement invariance and internal consistency. Study 2 sampled 196 student-athletes (males = 139, females = 57, Mage =19.88 yrs, SD = 1.35) and examined discriminant validity and convergent validity of PSS. Results: Results found that 2-factor PSS-10 fitted the model the best and had appropriate reliability. Also, there was a measurement invariance between athletes and non-athletes; and PSS positively correlated with athlete burnout and life stress but negatively correlated with coping efficacy provided evidences of discriminant validity and convergent validity. Discussion: It is suggested that 2-factor PSS-10 can be a useful tool in assessing perceived stress either in sport or non-sport settings. We suggest future study may use 2-factor PSS-10 in examining the effects of stress on athletic injury, burnout, and psychiatry disorders.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2268/', ['Kinesiology', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Graduate Institute of Physical Education, National Taiwan Sport University', u'Graduate Institute of Sport Coaching Science, Chinese Culture University', u'Department of Physical Education and kinesiology, National Dong Hwa University', u'Department of Physical Education, National Taiwan University of Sport', u'Department of Physical Education, Health, and Recreation, National Chia-Yi University', u'Department of Exercise and Health Promotion, Chinese Culture University']]
[u'Increased root hair density by loss of WRKY6 in Arabidopsis thaliana', ['Markus G Stetter', 'Martin Benz', 'Uwe Ludewig'], u'2016-07-08', u'Root hairs are unicellular elongations of certain rhizodermal cells that improve the uptake of sparingly soluble and immobile soil nutrients. Among different Arabidopsis thaliana genotypes, root hair density, length and the local acclimation to low inorganic phosphate (Pi) differs considerably, when analyzed on split agar plates. Here, genome-wide association fine mapping identified significant single nucleotide polymorphisms associated with the increased root hair density in the absence of local phosphate on chromosome 1. A loss-of-function mutant of the candidate transcription factor gene WRKY6, which is involved in the acclimation of plants to low phosphorus, had increased root hair density. This is partially explained by a reduced cortical cell diameter in wrky6-3, reducing the rhizodermal cell numbers adjacent to the cortical cells. As a consequence, rhizodermal cells in positions that are in contact with two cortical cells are found more often, leading to higher hair density. Distinct cortical cell diameters and epidermal cell lengths distinguish other Arabidopsis accessions with distinct root hair density and -Pi response from diploid Col-0, while tetraploid Col-0 had generally larger root cell sizes, which explain longer hairs. A distinct radial root morphology within Arabidopsis accessions and wrky6-3 explains some, but not all, differences in the root hair acclimation to \u2013Pi.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2267/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Cell Biology', 'Genetics', 'Molecular Biology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Institute of Crop Science, Nutritional Crop Physiology, University of Hohenheim', u'Institute of Plant Breeding, Seed Science and Population Genetics, University of Hohenheim']]
[u'Multi-scale ecological filters shape the crayfish microbiome', ['James Skelton', 'Kevin M Geyer', 'Jay T Lennon', 'Robert P Creed', 'Bryan L Brown'], u'2016-07-08', u'Communities of symbiotic microbes obtained from the environment are an integral component of animal fitness and ecology. Thus a general and practical understanding of the processes that drive microbiome assembly and structure are paramount to understanding animal ecology, health, and evolution. We conceptualized a series of ecological filters that operate at the environment, host, and host tissue levels during microbiome assembly and discuss key ecological processes that structure animal microbiomes at each level. We conducted a survey of crayfish across four sites within the contiguous range of the of stream-inhabiting crayfish Cambarus sciotensis in western Virginia, USA, to characterize multiscale variation in the crayfish microbiome. We also conducted an in situ experiment to assess local drivers of microbial diversity on the closely related Cambarus chasmodactylus. We used a combination of DNA fingerprinting and next-generation sequencing to characterize microbiome diversity and composition from crayfish carapaces and gills to identify key filters affecting microbiome structure. Field survey showed that local environment and host tissues interact to create patterns of microbial diversity and composition, but the strongest effects on microbial community structure were observed at the level of host tissue. Our field experiment confirmed strong effects of host tissue, and also showed that a metazoan ectosymbiont which feeds on biofilms (Annelida; Branchiobdellida) had significant effects on microbial composition of the host carapace. Crayfish carapaces were colonized by diverse and taxonomically even microbial communities that were similar to, and correlated with, microbial communities of the ambient environment. Conversely, crayfish gills were colonized by less diverse communities and dominated by two families of bacteria with potentially significant functional roles: Comamonadaceae and Chitinophagaceae. Our results suggest that microbial assembly of the carapace is driven by external biotic and abiotic processes, whereas assembly on the gills appears to be coupled to host biology that favors interactions with few specific taxa. Our work shows how multi-scale studies of symbiont community assembly provide valuable insights into how the animal microbiome is structured under conditions of natural complexity and help identify other symbiont taxa, i.e., the branchiobdellidans, that may further influence microbiome assembly and structure.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2266/', ['Biodiversity', 'Biogeography', 'Ecology', 'Microbiology', 'Parasitology'], [u'Biology, Virginia Tech', u'Department of Biology, Indiana University', u'Department of Biology, Appalachian State University']]
[u'Open source geoprocessing tools and meteorological satellite data for crop risk zones monitoring in Sub-Saharan Africa', ['Tiziana De Filippis', 'Leandro Rocchi', 'Patrizio Vignaroli', 'Maurizio Bacci', 'Vieri Tarchiani', 'Elena Rapisardi'], u'2016-07-08', u'In Sub-Saharan Africa analysis tools and models based on meteorological satellites data have been developed within different national and international cooperation initiatives, with the aim of allowing a better monitoring of the cropping season. In most cases, the software was a stand-alone application and the upgrade, in terms of analysis functions, database and hardware maintenance, was difficult for National Meteorological Services (NMSs) in charge of the agro-hydro-meteorological monitoring. The web based solution proposed in this work intends to improve and ensure the sustainability of applications so to support national Early Warning Systems (EWSs) for food security. The Crop Risk Zones (CRZ) model for Niger and Mali, integrated in a web-based open source framework, has been implemented using PL/pgSQL & PostGIS functions to process different meteorological data set: a) the rainfall precipitation forecast images from Global Forecast System (GFS) b) the Climate Prediction Center (CPC) Rainfall Estimator (RFE) for Africa c) MSG images from EUMETSAT Earth Observation Portal d) the MOD 16 Global Terrestrial Evapotranspiration Data Set. Restful Web Services uploads raster images into the PostGIS spatial database for PostgreSQL and PL/pgSQL functions were employed to run CRZ model to identify for the main crops of the Region, the installation phases, the crops phenological phases and risk production zones images. This model is focused on the early identification of risks and the production of information for food security within the time prescribed for decision-making. The challenge and the objective of this work is to set up an open access monitoring system, based on meteorological open data providers, targeting NMSs and any other local decision makers for drought risk reduction and resilience improvement.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2265/', ['Databases', 'Emerging Technologies', 'Scientific Computing and Simulation', 'Spatial and Geographic Information Systems', 'World Wide Web and Web Science'], [u'Institute of Biometeorology, National Research Council']]
[u'Building size modelization', ['Arlette Antoni', 'Thierry Dhorne'], u'2016-07-08', u'New challenges in the efficient management of cities depend on a deep knowledge of their inner structures. It is therefore very important to have access to reliable models of cities characteristics and organization. This paper aims at providing and validating a stochastic modelization based on statistical data of buildings parameters which can be useful as an entry for many other models considered in a wide range of fields where buildings structure is a main factor of a thorough modelization of cities.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2264/', ['Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Data Science', 'Graphics', 'Scientific Computing and Simulation', 'Spatial and Geographic Information Systems'], [u'Lab-STICC UMR 6285, Universit\xe9 de Bretagne Sud']]
