[u'Physical features of eight different species with shells', ['Sammer Marzouk'], u'2016-09-11', u'In this study, eight different shells from different species were examined by looking at the physical features of the shells. The purpose of the study was to identify evolutionary links between species with shells. From these physical features, a morphological phylogeny was compiled. And from the morphological phylogeny, it was shown that their the family of the shells was the first trait defined specific clades and that each synapomorphic trait after this was a physical feature of the shells. From the experiment, the following conclusions were discovered: 1) That Scallops and Cockles are the most morphologic clay similar. 2) For taxa A, trait III is an apomorphy because this trait is a single trait that defines this taxa separately from the other taxa. 3) For taxa A, trait I is a plesiomorphy because it is a trait that is ancestral to trait III which defines taxa A (Fig. 2). From the data, these conclusions could introduce a new topic, new ideas, and new information to existing researches.The influx of new ideas would either become helpful, or build off the research of other researchers. This would help the scientific community in increasing its knowledge of the evolutionary background of more species.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2437/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Developmental Biology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Evolutionary Studies'], [u'University of Chicago Laboratory Schools']]
[u'Physiological, ethological and ecological features of Hermetia illucen', ['Sammer Marzouk'], u'2016-09-11', u'The Black Soldier Fly [Hermetia illucens] is a true fly in the family Stratiomyidae and subclass Pterygota. H.illucens has been a topic of interest in the ecological research world for many years. H.illucens possesses special physiological, ethological and ecological features that may allow H.illucens to become a model organism. This literature review looks at the physiological, ethological and ecological features of H.illucens. Existing literature about H.illucens has been searched and analyzed for this paper. From the literature search it was discovered that H.illucens is not known to have valuable impacts to the world at large.The purpose of doing this review is so that all information available on H.illucens can be chronicled and so the information can be used in real world applications. It provides a use of H.illucens as a model organism and aims to demonstrate a framework for real-world applications of H.illucens, such as H.illucens becoming a model organism for mosquitoes, Tsetse flies, and houseflies.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2436/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology', 'Entomology', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'University of Chicago Laboratory Schools']]
[u'An open source device for operant licking in rats', ['Matthew Longley', 'Ethan L Willis', 'Cindy X Tay', 'Hao Chen'], u'2016-09-11', u'Increasingly complex data sets are needed to fully understand the complexity in behavior. Credit card sized single-board computers with multi-core CPUs are an attractive platform for designing devices capable of collecting multi-dimensional behavioral data. To demonstrate this idea, we created an easy to-use device for operant licking experiments and another device that records environmental variables. These systems collect data obtained from multiple input devices (e.g., radio frequency identification tag readers, touch and motion sensors, environmental sensors) and activate output devices (e.g., LED lights, syringe pumps) as needed. Data gathered from these devices can be automatically transferred to a remote server via a wireless network. We tested the operant device by training rats to obtain either sucrose or water under the control of a fixed ratio, a variable ratio, or a progressive ratio reinforcement schedule. The lick data demonstrated that the device has sufficient precision and time resolution to record the fast licking behavior of rats. Data from the environment monitoring device also showed reliable measurements. By providing the code and 3D design under an open source license, we believe these examples will stimulate innovation in behavioral studies. http://github.com/chen42/openbehavior.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2435/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Bioengineering', 'Neuroscience'], [u'Undergraduate Program, University of Memphis', u'Bioinformatics, University of Memphis', u'Undergraduate Program, Duke University', u'Department of Pharmacology, University of Tennessee Health Science Center']]
