[u'Bioinformatics approach reveals the gene targets of Ebola virus microRNAs involved in the human skin microbiome', ['Pei-Chun Hsu', 'Bin-Hao Chiou', 'Chun-Ming Huang'], u'2017-05-02', u"The Ebola virus, a negative-sense single-stranded RNA virus, causes severe viral hemorrhagic fever and is highly lethal. Histopathology and immunopathologic study of Ebola virus have revealed that histopathologic changes in skin tissue were mainly various degrees of endothelial cell swelling and necrosis. The interactions of microbes within or on a host are a crucial aspect of the skin immune shield. The discovery of microRNAs in Ebola virus implies that immune escape, endothelial cell rupture and tissue dissolution during Ebola virus infection are all results of the action of Ebola virus miRNAs. Keratinocytes obtained from normal skin and subsequently attached and spread on the thrombospondin protein family may play a role in initiating cell-mediated immune responses in the skin. Several miRNAs have been observed to bind the 3' untranslated region of the thrombospondin mRNA, thereby controlling its stability and translational activity. In this study, we first discover short RNA sequences that might act as miRNAs from Propionibacterium acnes by design a practical workflow of bioinformatics methods. Subsequently, we deciphered the common target gene. These RNA sequences tend to binding to the same thrombospondin protein. These RNA sequences tend to bind to the same protein , THSD4, emphasizing the potential importance of the synergistic binding of miRNAs from Ebola virus, Propionibacterium acnes , and humans to the target. By RNA expression validation, we prove the potential synergistic binding of the miRNA from Ebola virus, Propionibacterium acnes and human to the target.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2959/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Microbiology', 'Infectious Diseases', 'Medical Genetics'], [u'Department of Biomedical Electronics and Bioinformatics, National Taiwan University', u'Graduate Institute of Biomedical Electronics and Bioinformatics, National Taiwan University', u'Department of Systems Biology and Bioinformatics, National Central University', u'Department of Medicine, Division of Dermatology, University of California']]
[u'Can we predict ecosystem functioning using tightly linked functional gene diversity?', ['Fabian Roger', 'Christian Alsterberg', 'Lea Wittorf', 'Kristina Sundback', 'Stefan Hulth', 'Sara Hallin', 'Lars Gamfeldt'], u'2017-05-02', u'Biodiversity generally affects ecosystem processes, but to what extent detailed knowledge about specific aspects of biodiversity helps us understand and predict specific ecosystem functions is not well-known. We hypothesised that information about functional gene abundance and diversity would provide a better way of predicting a particular function catalysed by that gene product, than would a more generic descriptor of species diversity. For our purposes, we used marine benthic nitrogen-fixing bacteria as a model system. We first used published observational data to relate nitrogen fixation to the abundance of the gene nifH, which encodes enzymes involved in the fixation of atmospheric nitrogen gas. We then used the fitted model, which explained 37% of the variance, to predict nitrogen fixation in other sediment samples for which nitrogen fixation and nifH abundance was determined. The model provided no predictive power for benthic nitrogen fixation on independent data. Additional information on the diversity of the general bacterial community, and the nitrogen fixing community in particular did not improve predictions. It was also not possible to predict nitrogen fixation based on the abundance of particular gene variants or bacterial taxa. Our results demonstrate that process rates can be intrinsically difficult to predict based on community metrics even when the community data and the process are tightly coupled.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2958/', ['Ecology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Marine Sciences, University of Gothenburg', u'Department of Biology, Lund University', u'Department of Forest Mycology and Plant Pathology, Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences', u'Department of Chemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Gothenburg']]
[u'Catch-per-unit effort of exploited finfishes and crustaceans in Ilog River Estuary, Negros Occidental, Philippines', ['Abner A Bucol', 'Floredel D. Galon', 'Angel C. Alcala'], u'2017-05-02', u'This paper reports the catch-per-unit effort (CPUE) of the finfish and crustacean fishery in Ilog River Estuary in Negros Occidental. We monitored catch data of fishing gears, mainly trawl (small type), beach seine and mud crab pot from April, May, September, October, December 2013 and January 2014.We estimated at least 37.82 metric tonnes of annual fishery yield (fishes and crustaceans combined) for the entire Malabong estuarine area. Two gears (liftnet and fish corrals) were used by the local fishers since the 1980s. Based on the baseline annual yield of 21 tonnes, the annual yield for these gears (at present ~7.5 tonnes) combined has declined by 13.5 tonnes (~65%) since the early 1980s (~30 years). This decline might be due to habitat degradation (including conversion of original mangrove forests into fish ponds and nipa plantations), over-exploitation, and organic pollution (resulting to recurring fish kill events) in the area.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2957/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science'], [u'SUAKCREM, Silliman University', u'Biology, Palawan State University']]
