[u'Towards a metadata-driven multi-community research data management service', ['Richard Grunzke', 'Volker Hartmann', 'Thomas Jejkal', 'Ajinkya Prabhune', 'Hendrik Herold', 'Aline Deicke', 'Alexander Hoffmann', 'Torsten Schrade', 'Gotthard Meinel', 'Sonja Herres-Pawlis', 'Rainer Stotzka', 'Wolfgang E. Nagel'], u'2017-02-24', u'Nowadays, the daily work of many research communities is characterized by an increasing amount and complexity of data. This makes it increasingly difficult to manage, access and utilize to ultimately gain scientific insights based on it. At the same time, domain scientists want to focus on their science instead of IT. The solution is research data management in order to store data in a structured way to enable easy discovery for future reference. An integral part is the use of metadata. With it, data becomes accessible by its content instead of only its name and location. The use of metadata shall be as automatic and seamless as possible in order to foster a high usability.\nHere we present the architecture and initial steps of the MASi project with its aim to build a comprehensive research data management service. First, it extends the existing KIT Data Manager framework by a generic programming interface and by a generic graphical web interface. Advanced additional features includes the integration of provenance metadata and persistent identifiers. The MASi service aims at being easily adaptable for arbitrary communities with limited effort. The requirements for the initial use cases within geography, chemistry and digital humanities are elucidated. The MASi research data management service is currently being built up to satisfy these complex and varying requirements in an efficient way.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2831/', ['Data Science', 'Distributed and Parallel Computing'], [u'Center for Information Services and High Performance Computing, Technische Universit\xe4t Dresden', u'Institute for Data Processing and Electronics, Karlsruhe Institute of Technology', u'Monitoring of Settlement and Open Space Development, Leibniz Institute of Ecological Urban and Regional Development', u'Digitale Akademie, Akademie der Wissenschaften und der Literatur Mainz', u'Institut f\xfcr Anorganische Chemie, Rheinisch Westf\xe4lische Technische Hochschule Aachen']]
[u'Doing things twice: Strategies to identify studies for targeted validation', ['Gopal P Sarma'], u'2017-02-24', u'The \u201creproducibility crisis\u201d has been a highly visible source of scientific controversy and dispute. Here, I propose and review several avenues for identifying and prioritizing research studies for the purpose of targeted validation. Of the various proposals discussed, I identify scientific data science as being a strategy that merits greater attention among those interested in reproducibility. I argue that the tremendous potential of scientific data science for uncovering high-value research studies is a significant and rarely discussed benefit of the transition to a fully open-access publishing model.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2830/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Evidence Based Medicine', 'Health Policy', 'Translational Medicine', 'Science Policy'], [u'School of Medicine, Emory University']]
[u'Potential effects of climate change on the risk of accidents with poisonous species of the genusTityus (Scorpiones, Buthidae) in Argentina', ['Pablo Martinez', 'Mayane A Andrade', 'Claudio Juan Bidau'], u'2017-02-24', u'BACKGROUND: The knowledge of the factors that affect the geographic distribution of species permits us to infer where they can be found. Human beings, through the expansion of their own distribution area and their contribution to climate alteration have modified the geographic distribution of other biological species. As a consequence, the temporal pattern of co-occurrence of human beings and venomous species (scorpions, spiders, snakes) is being modified. Thus, the temporal pattern of areas with risk of accidents with such species tends to become dynamic along time. The aim of this work was to analyze the areas of occurrence of species of Tityus in Argentina and assess the impact of global climate change on their area of distribution constructing risk maps.\nMETHODS: Using data of occurrence of the species and climatic variables, we constructed models of species distribution (SMDs) under current and future conditions. We also created maps that allow the detection of temporal shifts in the distribution patterns of each Tityus species. Finally, we constructed risk maps for the analyzed species.\nRESULTS: Our results predict that climate change will have an impact on the distribution of Tityus species which will clearly expand to more southern latitudes, with the exception of T. argentinus. T. bahiensis, widely distributed in Brazil, showed a considerable increase of its potential area (ca. 37%) with future climate change. The species T. confluens and T. trivittatus that cause the highest number of accidents in Argentina, showed significant changes of their distributions in future scenarios. The former fact is worrying because Buenos Aires province is the more densely populated federal district in Argentina thus liable to become the one most affected by T. trivittatus.\nDISCUSSION: Then, these alterations of distributional patterns can lead to amplify the accident risk zones of venomous species, becoming an important subject of concern for public health policies.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2829/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology'], [u'PIBi Lab \u2013 Laboratorio de Pesquisas Integrativas em Biodiversidade, Universidade Federal de Sergipe']]
[u'Comparing conservation monitoring approaches: traditional and environmental DNA tools for a critically endangered mammal', ['Chanjuan Qu', 'Kathryn A Stewart'], u'2017-02-24', u'While conservation management has made tremendous strides in the last few decades, the decision of knowing where and how to invest (often) small surveying budgets for biodiversity data collection remains a central hurdle for impactful conservation decision making. New analytical tools, such as environmental DNA (eDNA), are now facilitating broader biodiversity monitoring to take place at unprecedented scales, in part due to its time-efficient, and presumably cost-efficient, premise. eDNA approaches vary from conventional PCR (detecting presence/absence of species), metabarcoding (community structure), to qPCR (relative DNA abundance), and knowing when to employ these techniques over traditional sampling protocols could enable conservation practitioners to make informed trade-offs between cost, accuracy, and speed of data collection. Using 12 species-specific primers designed for conventional PCR use in eDNA analysis of the Yangtze Finless Porpoise (Neophocaena asiaeorientalis asiaeorientalis), a critically endangered aquatic mammal within the Yangtze River, we validated and optimized these same primers for use in real-time Quantitative PCR (qPCR). We tested the repeatability and sensitivity of primer each to detect YFP eDNA and subsequently compared the cost of traditional visual sampling to both conventional PCR and qPCR eDNA tools. Our results suggest qPCR to be substantially more sensitive than conventional PCR eDNA analysis, although the later remains the least-expensive sampling option. Still, due to a lack of sensitivity causing an increased probability of false negatives, conventional PCR may not be the most robust sampling method for this taxa and should only be employed as a supplementary tool or when large populations are expected to be present. Alternatively, utilizing qPCR for eDNA protocols is still less-expensive than visual surveying and represents a highly repeatable and sensitive method for this behaviorally elusive species. Presenting a cost assessment of eDNA to traditional surveying practices has scarcely been discussed, while contrasting deliverables to the cost of different eDNA methods has, to date, been ignored. Yet given budgetary constraints, particularly for developing countries where low-governance and high endemism are present, we encourage managers to carefully consider the trade-offs among data accuracy, cost, coverage and speed for biodiversity collections.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2828/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology'], [u'State Key Laboratory for Pollution Control and Resource Reuse, College of Environmental Science and Engineering, Tongji University']]
[u'Phenotypic variation in dorsal fin morphology of coastal bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus) off Mexico', ['Eduardo Morteo', 'Axayacatl Rocha-Olivares', 'Rodrigo Morteo', 'David W Weller'], u'2017-02-24', u'Geographic variation in external morphology is thought to reflect an interplay between genotype and the environment. Morphological variation has been well-described for a number of cetacean species, including the bottlenose dolphin (Tursiops truncatus). In this study we analyzed dorsal fin morphometric variation in coastal bottlenose dolphins to search for geographic patterns at different spatial scales. A total of 533 dorsal fin images from 19 available photo-identification catalogs across the three Mexican oceanic regions (Pacific Ocean n=6, Gulf of California n=6 and, Gulf of Mexico n=7) were used in the analysis. Eleven fin shape measurements were analyzed to evaluate fin polymorphism through multivariate tests. Principal Component Analysis on log-transformed standardized ratios explained 94% of the variance. Canonical Discriminant Function Analysis on factor scores showed separation among most study areas (p<0.05) with exception of the Gulf of Mexico where a strong morphometric cline was found. Possible explanations for the observed differences are related to environmental, biological and evolutionary processes. Shape distinction between dorsal fins from the Pacific and those from the Gulf of California were consistent with previously reported differences in skull morphometrics and genetics. Although the functional advantages of dorsal fin shape remains to be assessed, it is not unlikely that over a wide range of environments, fin shape may represent a trade-off among thermoregulatory capacity, hydrodynamic performance and the swimming/hunting behavior of the species.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2827/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Biogeography', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Instituto de Ciencias Marinas y Pesquer\xedas/Instituto de Investigaciones Biol\xf3gicas, Universidad Veracruzana', u'Centro de Investigaci\xf3n Cient\xedfica y de Educaci\xf3n Superior de Ensenada', u'Facultad de Ciencias Administrativas y Sociales, Universidad Aut\xf3noma de Baja California', u'Southwest Fisheries Science Center, Marine Mammal and Turtle Division, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration']]
