[u'Water (or the lack thereof), management, and conservation of an endangered desert wetland obligate, Lilaeopsis schaffneriana var. recurva', ['Jacob W Malcom', 'Anna C Malcom', 'William R Radke'], u'2017-01-06', u'Huachuca water umbel, Lilaeopsis schaffneriana var. recurva, is a federally endangered desert wetland plant restricted to southeastern Arizona, USA, and adjacent portions of Mexico. Very little is known about the factors that influence the species presence, absence, and abundance, including the effects of wetland drying caused by drought or water withdrawals. We conducted three lines of research to address the lack of information about the species\u2019 ecology using observational field research and controlled experiments. First, we examined ecological correlates of the species presence and absence along a perennial stream in Southeast Arizona where the species has been established for over a decade. Next, we used a full-factorial experiment to examine the species\u2019 drought resistance and drought resilience. Last, we monitored transplanting efforts of the species along the upper Rio Yaqui. We found that distance to the nearest water umbel patch centroid\u2014a measure of historical factors\u2014and distance to surface water were the best predictors of the species\u2019 presence and leaf density. The drought experiments demonstrated that leaf density is an important factor influencing both resistance and resilience: low leaf-density was associated with replicates reaching critical conditions approximately one full day before high leaf-density plants, and high leaf-density plants rebounded at nearly twice the rate of low-density plants when water became available. Transplants appeared to be most successful in areas where water levels remained relatively constant, herbaceous-layer competitors were rare, and water velocity was low. These results indicate that protecting existing populations by ensuring stable water sources is the most important action for conserving the species in current locations and future transplant locations.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2699/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Endangered Species Conservation, Defenders of Wildlife', u'San Bernardino and Leslie Canyon National Wildlife Refuges, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service']]
[u'Evidence against a mechanism of allelopathy in the green alga Chlorodesmis fastigiata', ['William E Kumler'], u'2017-01-06', u'Allelopathic macroalgae have been shown to have significant negative effects on corals via the transfer of toxic compounds. The interaction that takes place between allelopathic macroalgae and other algae, however, has not been studied in detail. Here, the effects of the allelopathic Chlorodesmis fastigiata on other macroalgae were analyzed. These effects were first tested on complete coral and macroalgal individuals over several days, then on small samples of the macroalgal species when exposed to isolated toxins. However, neither experiment found significant negative effects on either Sargassum mangarevense or Boodlea kaeneana due to the interaction between these algae and the toxin produced by C. fastigiata. Distribution and abundance of C. fastigiata was also assessed around the island of Moorea in French Polynesia.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2700/', ['Biochemistry', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Environmental Science Policy and Management, University of California, Berkeley', u'Earth and Planetary Science, University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'Rates of morphological evolution in Captorhinidae: An adaptive radiation of Permian herbivores', ['Neil Brocklehurst'], u'2017-01-06', u'The evolution of herbivory in early tetrapods was crucial in the establishment of terrestrial ecosystems, although it is so far unclear what effect this innovation had on the macro-evolutionary patterns observed within this clade. The clades which entered this under-filled region of ecospace might be expected to have experienced an \u201cadaptive radiation\u201d: an increase in rates of morphological evolution and speciation driven by the evolution of a key innovation. However such inferences are often circumstantial, being based on the coincidence of a rate shift with the origin of an evolutionary novelty. The conclusion of an adaptive radiation may be made more robust by examining the pattern of the evolutionary shift; if the evolutionary innovation coincides not only with a shift in rates of morphological evolution, but specifically in the morphological characteristics relevant to the ecological shift of interest, then one may more plausibly infer a causal relationship between the two. Here I examine the impact of diet evolution on rates of morphological change in one of the earliest tetrapod clades to evolve high-fibre herbivory: Captorhinidae. Using a method of calculating heterogeneity in rates of discrete character change across a phylogeny, it is shown that a significant increase in rates of evolution coincides with the transition to herbivory in captorhinids. Theherbivorous captorhinids also exhibit greater morphological disparity than their faunivorous relatives, indicating more rapid exploration of new regions of morphospace. As well as an increase in rates of evolution, there is a shift in the regions of the skeleton undergoing the most change; the character changes in the herbivorous lineages are concentrated in the manible and dentition. The fact that the increase in rates of evolution coincides with increased change in characters relating to food acquisition provides stronger evidence for a causal relationship between the herbivorous diet and the radiation event.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2701/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology'], [u'Museum f\xfcr Naturkunde, Leibniz - Institut f\xfcr Evolutions - und Biodiversit\xe4tsforschung']]
[u'Dual roles of tear lipocalins as \u2018chemical signalling\u2019 and \u2018toxic waste disposal\u2019 systems of the house mouse', ['Pavel Stopka', 'Petr Klempt', 'Barbora Kuntova', 'Romana Stopkova'], u'2017-01-06', u'Mammalian tears are produced by lacrimal glands to protect eyes and to function in chemical communication and immunity. However, excess tears flow through nasolacrimal ductsto nasal tissues, and via the nasopharyngeal duct to the oral cavity where digestion starts. Tears contain soluble proteins that attack pathogens, as well as proteins from the lipocalin family that \u2013 with their capacity to transport volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in their eight-stranded beta barrel \u2013 are involved in sexual signalling and may also transport toxic VOCs towards digestion. Therefore, we generated the tear proteome of the wild-living house mouse (Mus musculus musculus) and detected a total of 719 proteins in tears with 20% being sexually dimorphic. Those proteins that showed the most elevated sexual dimorphisms are VOC transporters from the recently discovered odorant binding protein (OBP), and major urinary protein (MUP) families, thus demonstrating that tears have the potential to elicit sex-specific signals in combination with different lipocalins. Moreover, some tear lipocalins are non-dimorphic \u2013 with MUP20/Darcin, LCN11, and LCN13 being good examples \u2013 thus suggesting that they are involved in other biological processes besides sexual signalling.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2702/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Zoology, Faculty of Science, Charles University']]
[u'Mechanism of apoptosis induced by quinoxalone from the myxobacterium Stigmatella eracta WXNXJ-B in B16 mouse melanoma cell line', ['Dahong Wang', 'Lanlan Wei', 'Shuaiying Zhang'], u'2017-01-06', u'The biological activities of quinoxalone, a novel small molecular substance isolated from the broth of the myxobacterium Stigmatella eracta WXNXJ-B, was investigated. This study was designed to determine the anti-proliferative, apoptotic property of quinoxalone, using B16 mouse melanoma cells as a model system. The results showed that quinoxalone has antitumor activity and can significantly inhibit the proliferation of B16 cells. The extent and the timing of apoptosis were strongly dependent on the dose. After treating with quinoxalone and staining with Hoechst 33342, B16 cells showed typical apoptotic morphological features such as chromatin condensation by fluorescent microscopy. DNA isolated from B16 cells cultured with quinoxalone showed a typical DNA ladder of apoptosis in agarose gel electrophoresis. Further investigation results showed that the apoptotic machinery of B16 induced by quinoxalone was associated with drop in mitochondrial membrane potential from 5.35% to 23.7%, up-regulation of Bax and down-regulation of Bcl-2 in a dose-dependent manner. And a signi\ufb01cant increased activation of caspase-3. Our finding suggests that quinoxalone could suppress the growth of B16 cells and reduces cell survival via disturbing mitochondrial membrane potential and inducing apoptosis of tumor cells.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2703/', ['Biotechnology', 'Microbiology', 'Pharmacology'], [u'College of Food and Bioengineering, Henan University of Science and Technology', u'Luoyang Engineering and Technology Research Center of Microbial Fermentation']]
[u'Distribution and biological implications of plastic pollution on the fringing reef of Mo\u2019orea, French Polynesia', ['Elizabeth Janice Connors'], u'2017-01-05', u'Plastic pollution has been recognized as a major pollutant of the open ocean, but the extent and impact of plastic pollution on the coral reef environment has yet to be fully understood. In this study, the distribution of both macro- (>5mm) and micro- plastic (<5mm) of a typical coral reef ecosystem\u2014 the fringing reef of an isolated South Pacific island, Mo\u2019orea, French Polynesia\u2014was quantified. During the course of the study, macroplastic was found on every beach on the island, and distribution of plastic was categorized by site type and the presence of Turbinaria oranata, a common macroalgae of Mo\u2019orea. Microplastic (plastic pieces <5mm) was found in the water column of the fringing reef of the island, at a concentration of 0.74 plastic pieces per square meter. To test the impact on coral reef organisms of the plastic pollution found in the fringing reef, microplastic was exposed to a species of soft coral, Discosoma spp.in a laboratory setting. The resilience of Discosoma spp.in fluctuating temperatures and rising CO2 levels is well understood, but the effect of plastic pollution on Discosoma spp. and other corallimorphs has never before been analyzed. This study reports for the first time the ingestion of microplastic by the soft coral Discosoma spp. Positively buoyant and negatively buoyant microplastic were both ingested over different time frames. In addition, wild (not experimentally introduced) microplastic was found in the stomach cavity of the organism. These findings indicate that plastic debris are being ingested by Discosoma spp. and may impair the health of this prevalent coral reef organism.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2697/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Integrative Biology, University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'Exposure to dense bacteria lawns does not cause the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum to carry bacteria through the social stage', ['Debra A Brock', 'Alicia Canas', 'Kai Jones', 'David C Queller', 'Joan E Strassmann'], u'2017-01-05', u'Background. Interactions between eukaryotic amoebae and bacteria are understudied and important. Bacteria inside of amoebae are protected from external forces including antibiotics. An excellent model for bacteria-amoeba interactions is the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum and its associated bacteria. A third of wild-collected clones of the soil-dwelling amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum exhibit a suite of characteristics that make them simple farmers of bacteria. They carry bacteria internally through the social spore-making stage. They then release these bacteria to grow and subsequently eat them, prudently stopping before they are entirely consumed so some bacteria can be carried to the next generation. D. discoideum defend their food bacteria with other inedible bacteria that produce compounds toxic to non-farmers. Both carried bacteria and social amoeba hosts have demonstrated co-evolved characteristics. Most farmer clones discovered to date carry inedible Burkholderia in addition to food bacteria, but it is not clear whether or not a preponderance of na\xefve bacteria might induce the farming state by overwhelming the phagocytic actions of the host amoebae. In this study we address this question with D. discoideum clones that naturally carry bacteria and those that do not. Will na\xefve bacteria in large numbers succeed in colonizing the amoebae?\nMethods. We grew five non-farmer clones and five farmer clones of wild-collected Dictyostelium discoideum on three different concentrations of a highly palatable bacterial food source, Klebsiella pneumoniae. We then tested them to see if they carried bacteria through the social stage.\nResults. We found that bacterial density did not have a significant effect on whether or not the clones carried bacteria through the social stage. Even those grown in very dense bacterial cultures were able to shed them successfully unless they were also carrying Burkholderia.\nDiscussion. Our results indicate that even a preponderance of food bacteria cannot overwhelm the ability of social amoebae to digest and not carry bacteria. Apparently, only the inedible Burkholderia have that effect. This points to the importance of understanding co-infection with multiple bacteria because those that cannot induce carriage can nevertheless become carried, foiling digestive processes, but only in the presence of another bacterium. Future studies of host bacteria interactions should consider using multiple bacteria simultaneously.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2698/', ['Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies'], [u'Department of Biology, Washington University in St. Louis']]
