[u'Macro-algae flora and succession characteristics in the mussel culture zones in Gouqi island, Zhejiang Province', ['Yan Huang', 'Bin Sun', 'Pei Min He'], u'2017-01-19', u'Macro-algae flora of the mussel culture zones in Gouqi island, Zhejiang Province, was surveyed from 2014 to 2015. Seventy species of macro-algae were identified, belonging to 31 genera, 21 families, 14 orders, and three phyla. Thirty-eight species from 16 genera belong to Rhodophyta, 21 species from seven genera belong to Phaeophyta, and 11 species from eight genera belong to Chlorophyta. Rhodophyta, Chlorophyta, and Phaeophyta contributed to 54.29%, 30%, and 15.71% of the total number of species, respectively. The dominant species were Undaria pinnatifida, Sargassum horneri, Grateloupia livida, Grateloupia turuturu, Ulva pertusa, Ulva lactuca, Hypnea boergesenii, Ulva linza, Cladophora utriculosa, and Amphiroa ephedraea. Seasonal alternation of macro-algae species was evident; there were 52 species in spring, 42 species in winter, 38 species in autumn, and 30 species in summer. Macro-algae biomass was highest in spring and lower in autumn > summer > and winter. The diversity of macro-algae communities also changed seasonally; the diversity index (H\u2019) was highest in autumn and lower in summer > winter > and spring. The results of de-trended correspondence analysis suggested that temperature was the most important environmental factor affecting the distribution of the macro-algae in mussel culture zones. Wind, water currents, and human disturbances were also important factors affecting algal communities.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2738/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Shanghai Ocean University, College of Fisheries and Life Sciences']]
[u'Testing the hypothesis that routine sea ice coverage of 3-5 mkm2 results in a greater than 30% decline in population size of polar bears (Ursus maritimus)', ['Susan J Crockford'], u'2017-01-19', u'The polar bear (Ursus maritimus) was the first species to be classified as threatened with extinction based on predictions of future conditions rather than current status. These predictions were made using expert-opinion forecasts of population declines linked to modeled habitat loss \u2013 first by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN)\u2019s Red List in 2006, and then by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) in 2008 under the Endangered Species Act (ESA), based on data collected to 2005 and 2006, respectively. Both assessments predicted significant population declines of polar bears would result by mid-century as a consequence of summer sea ice extent reaching 3-5 mkm2 on a regular basis: the IUCN predicted a >30% decline in total population, while the USFWS predicted the global population would decline by 67% (including total extirpation of ten subpopulations within two vulnerable ecoregions). Biologists involved in these conservation assessments had to make several critical assumptions about how polar bears might be affected by future habitat loss, since sea ice conditions predicted to occur by 2050 had not occurred prior to 2006. However, summer sea ice declines have been much faster than expected: low ice levels not expected until mid-century (about 3-5 mkm2) have occurred regularly since 2007. Realization of predicted sea ice levels allows the \u2018sea ice decline = population decline\u2019 assumption for polar bears to be treated as a testable hypothesis. Data collected between 2007 and 2015 reveal that polar bear numbers have not declined as predicted and no subpopulation has been extirpated. Several subpopulations expected to be at high risk of decline have remained stable and at least one showed a marked increase in population size over the entire period. Another at-risk subpopulation was not counted but showed marked improvement in reproductive parameters and body condition with less summer ice. As a consequence, the hypothesis that repeated summer sea ice levels of below 5 mkm2 will cause significant population declines in polar bears is rejected. This result indicates that the ESA and IUCN judgments to list polar bears as threatened based on future risks of habitat loss were hasty generalizations that were scientifically unfounded, which suggests that similar predictions for Arctic seals and walrus may be likewise flawed, while the lack of a demonstrable \u2018sea ice decline = population decline\u2019 relationship for polar bears invalidates updated survival model outputs that predict catastrophic population declines should the Arctic become ice-free in summer.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2737/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Anthropology, University of Victoria']]
[u'Freeze-thaw decellularization of the trabecular meshwork in an ex vivo eye perfusion model', ['Yalong Dang', 'Susannah Waxman', 'Chao Wang', 'Adrianna Jensen', 'Ralitsa T Loewen', 'Richard Bilonick', 'Nils A Loewen'], u'2017-01-18', u'Objective: Trabecular meshwork (TM) is the primary substrate of outflow resistance in glaucomatous eyes. Repopulating diseased TM with fresh, functional TM cells might represent a novel therapeutic breakthrough. Various decellularized TM scaffolds were developed by ablating existing cells with suicide gene therapy or saponin, but always with incomplete cell removal or dissolve the extracellular matrix. We hypothesized that a chemical-free, freeze-thaw method would be able to produce a fully decellularized TM scaffold for cell transplantation.\nMaterials and Methods: We obtained 24 porcine eyes from a local abattoir, dissected and mounted them in an anterior segment perfusion and pressure transduction system within two hours of sacrifice. After they stabilized for 72 hours, eight eyes each were assigned to freeze-thaw (F) ablation (-80\xb0C\xd72), to 0.02% saponin (S) treatment, or the control group (C), respectively. The trabecular meshwork was transduced with an eGFP expressing feline immunodeficiency viral (FIV) vector and tracked via fluorescent microscopy to confirm ablation. Following treatment, the eyes were perfused with standard tissue culture medium for 180 hours. We assessed histological changes by hematoxylin and eosin staining. TM cell viability was evaluated with a calcein AM/propidium iodide (PI) assay. We measured IOP and modeled it with a linear mixed effects model using a B-spline function of time with 5 degrees of freedom.\nResults: F and S experienced a similar IOP reduction by 30% from baseline (P=0.64). IOP reduction of about 30% occurred in F within 24 hours and in S within 48 hours. Live visualization of eGFP demonstrated that F conferred a complete ablation of all TM cells and only a partial ablation in S. Histological analysis confirmed that no TM cells survived in F while the extracellular matrix remained. The viability assay showed very low PI and no calcein staining in F in contrast to numerous PI-labeled dead TM cells and calcein-labeled viable TM cells in S.\nConclusion: We developed a rapid TM ablation method that uses cyclic freezing that is free of biological or chemical agents and able to produce a decellularized TM scaffold with preserved TM excellular matrix in an organotypic perfusion culture.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2736/', ['Bioengineering', 'Ophthalmology', 'Statistics'], [u'Department of Ophthalmology, University of Pittsburgh', u'Department of Ophthalmology, Xiangya School of Medicine, Central South University']]
