[u'Evolution of anatomical concept usage over time: Mining 200 years of biodiversity literature', ['Prashanti Manda', 'Todd J Vision'], u'2017-01-25', u'The scientific literature contains an historic record of the changing ways in which we describe the world. Shifts in understanding of scientific concepts are reflected in the introduction of new terms and the changing usage and context of existing ones. We conducted an ontology-based temporal data mining analysis of biodiversity literature from the 1700s to 2000s to quantitatively measure how the context of usage for vertebrate anatomical concepts has changed over time. The corpus of literature was divided into nine non-overlapping time periods with comparable amounts of data and context vectors of anatomical concepts were compared to measure the magnitude of concept drift both between adjacent time periods and cumulatively relative to the initial state. Surprisingly, we found that while anatomical concept drift between adjacent time periods was substantial (55% to 68%), it was of the same magnitude as cumulative concept drift across multiple time periods. Such a process, bound by an overall mean drift, fits the expectations of a mean-reverting process.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2747/', ['Biodiversity', 'Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Computer Science, University of North Carolina at    Greensboro', u'Department of Biology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill']]
[u'The first reported ceratopsid dinosaur from eastern North America (Owl Creek Formation, Late Cretaceous, Mississippi, USA)', ['Andrew A. Farke', 'George E. Phillips'], u'2017-01-25', u'Ceratopsids (\u201chorned dinosaurs\u201d) are known from numerous specimens in western North America and Asia, a distribution reflecting the inferred subaerial link between the two landmasses during the Late Cretaceous. However, this clade was previously unknown from eastern North America, presumably due to limited outcrop of the appropriate age and depositional environment as well as the separation of eastern and western North America by the Western Interior Seaway during much of the Late Cretaceous. A dentary tooth from the Owl Creek Formation (late Maastrichtian) of Union County, Mississippi, represents the first reported occurrence of Ceratopsidae from eastern North America. This tooth shows a combination of features typical of Ceratopsidae, including a double root and a prominent, blade-like carina. Based on the age of the fossil, we hypothesize that it is consistent with a dispersal of ceratopsids into eastern North America during the very latest Cretaceous, after the two halves of North America were reunited following the retreat of the Western Interior Seaway.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2746/', ['Paleontology', 'Zoology'], [u'Raymond M. Alf Museum of Paleontology', u'Mississippi Museum of Natural Science, Mississippi Department of Wildlife, Fisheries and Parks']]
