[u'Comparative transcriptome analyses of a late-ripening mandarin mutant and its original cultivar reveals gene expression profiling associated with citrus fruit ripening', ['Wang Lu', 'Hua Qingzhu', 'Ma Yuewen', 'Hu Guibing', 'Qin Yonghua'], u'2017-01-23', u"Late-ripening characteristics of a fruit is a good agronomic trait for extending both the harvest period and marketing time. However, underlying molecular basis of the late-ripening mechanism in fruit is largely unknown. In this study, RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) technology was used to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) related to late-ripening characteristics from a late-ripening mutant \u2018Huwan Wuzishatangju\u2019 (HWWZSTJ) (Citrus reticulata Blanco) and its original line \u2018Wuzishatangju\u2019 (WZSTJ). A total of approximately 17.0 G base and 84.2 M paried-end reads were obtained. DEGs were mainly enriched in processes including photosynthesis, phenylpropanoid biosynthesis, carotenoid biosynthesis, chlorophyll and abscisic acid (ABA) metabolism. Thirteen candidate transcripts related to chlorophyll metabolism, carotenoid biosynthesis and ABA metabolism were analyzed using real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR) at all fruit maturation stages of HWWZSTJ and WZSTJ. Chlorophyllase (CLH) and divinyl reductase (DVR) from chlorophyll metabolism, phytoene synthase (PSY) and capsanthin/capsorubin synthase (CCS) from carotenoid biosynthesis, abscisic acid 8'-hydroxylase (AB) and 9-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenase (NCED1) from ABA metabolism were cloned and analyzed. NCED1 is probably responsible for the formation of late-repining of HWWZSTJ based on sequence and expression analyses. The preliminary study provides new information to better understand the complex process of late-ripening in Citrus at the transcriptional level.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2744/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Biotechnology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Plant Science'], [u'College of Horticulture, South China Agricultural University', u'Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming Institute of Botany']]
[u'How developers debug', ['Moritz Beller', 'Niels Spruit', 'Andy Zaidman'], u'2017-01-23', u'Debugging software is an inevitable chore, often difficult and more time-consuming than expected, giving it the nickname the \u201c dirty little secret of computer science.\u201d Surprisingly, we have little knowledge on how software engineers debug software problems in the real world, whether they use dedicated debugging tools, and how knowledgeable they are about debugging. This study aims to shed light on these aspects by following a mixed-methods research approach. We conduct an online survey capturing how 176 developers reflect on debugging. We augment this subjective survey data with objective observations from how 458 developers use the debugger included in their Integrated Development Environments (IDEs) by instrumenting the popular ECLIPSE and INTELLIJ IDEs with our purpose-built plugin WATCHDOG 2.0. To better explain the insights and controversies obtained from the previous steps, we followed up by conducting interviews with debugging experts and regular debugging users. Our results indicate that the the IDE-provided debugger is not used as often as expected, since \u201cprintf debugging\u201d remains a feasible choice for many programmers. Furthermore, both knowledge and use of advanced debugging features are low. Our results call to strengthen hands-on debugging experience in Computer Science curricula and can and have already influenced the design of modern IDE debuggers.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2743/', ['Computer Education', 'Data Science', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Delft University of Technology']]
[u'Comparative proteomics of Rhizopus delemar ATCC 20344 unravels the role of amino acid catabolism in fumarate accumulation', ['Dorett I Odoni', 'Juan A Tamayo-Ramos', 'Jasper Sloothaak', 'Ruben G A van Heck', 'Vitor A P Martins dos Santos', 'Leo H de Graaff', 'Maria Suarez-Diez', 'Peter J Schaap'], u'2017-01-23', u'The filamentous fungus Rhizopus delemar naturally accumulates relatively high amounts of fumarate. Although the culture conditions that increase fumarate yields are well established, the network underlying the accumulation of fumarate is not yet fully understood. We set out to increase the knowledge about fumarate accumulation in R. delemar. To this end, we combined a transcriptomics and proteomics approach to identify key metabolic pathways involved in fumarate production in R. delemar, and propose that a substantial part of the fumarate accumulated in R. delemar during nitrogen starvation results from the urea cycle due to amino acid catabolism.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2742/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioinformatics', 'Biotechnology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Laboratory of Systems and Synthetic Biology, Wageningen University and Research', u'LifeGlimmer GmBH']]
