[u'A novel universal probe library quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction method to profile immunological gene expression in blood of captive beluga whales (Delphinapterusleucas)', ['Ming-An Tsai', 'I-Hua Chen', 'Jiann-Hsiung Wang', 'Shih-Jen Chou', 'Tsung-Hsien Li', 'Ming-Yih Leu', 'Hsiao-Kuan Ho', 'Wei Cheng Yang'], u'2017-01-18', u'Cytokines are fundamental for a functioning immune system, and thus, potentially serve as important indicators of animal health. Quantitation of mRNA using quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) is an established immunological technique. It is particularly suitable for detecting the expression of proteins against which monoclonal antibodies are not available. In this study, we developed a novel probe-based quantitative gene expression assay for immunological assessment of captive beluga whales ( Delphinapterusleucas ) that is one of the most common cetacean species on display in aquariums worldwide. Six immunologically relevant genes (IL-2R\u03b1, -4, -10, -12, TNF\u03b1, and IFN\u03b3) were selected for analysis, and two validated housekeeping genes (PGK1 and RPL4) with stable expression were used as reference genes. Sixteen blood samples were obtained from four animals with different health conditions and stored in RNAlater solution. These samples were used for RNA extraction followed by qRT-PCR analysis. Analysis of gene transcripts was performed by relative quantitation using the comparative Cq method with the integration of amplification efficiency and two reference genes. The expression levels of each gene in the samples from clinically healthy animals were normally distributed. Transcript outliers for IL-2R\u03b1, IL-4, IL-12, TNF\u03b1, and IFN\u03b3 were noticed in four samples collected from two clinically unhealthy animals. This assay has the potential to identify immune system deviation from normal state, which is caused by health problems. Furthermore, knowing the immune status of captive cetaceans could help both trainers and veterinarians in implementing preventive approaches prior to disease onset.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2735/', ['Marine Biology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Veterinary Medicine', 'Immunology'], [u'Department of Biology, National Museum of Marine Biology and Aquarium', u'College of Veterinary Medicine, National Chiayi University', u'Department of Biology, Hi-Scene World Enterprise Co Ltd.']]
[u'A Monte Carlo simulation for bioprospecting the endemic New Zealand terrestrial flora for antibiotic drug leads', ['Eric J Buenz'], u'2017-01-18', u'Natural product libraries are important tools for drug discovery. However, until now, there has not been a system to allow projections of the potential number of hits from creating these libraries. The objective of this study was to develop a stochastic model system that predicts the number of hits from creating a natural product library. A Monte Carlo simulation was developed with data from the peer-reviewed literature. Using types of endemic New Zealand terrestrial flora as examples, the number of antibacterial hits expected from creating natural product libraries were calculated. The model predicts the following bounds for the 90% range of validated antibiotic leads for the categories of the terrestrial endemic flora of New Zealand with a right skewed distribution: [grasses: 1.43-6.50; liverworts: 2.75-12.5; fungi: 45.2-207; mosses: 0.98-4.48; vascular plants: 21.4-97.8]. Furthermore, per full-time equivalent (FTE) person employed on the project, a mean of 1.31 hits (90% range 0.48-2.42) is expected. This model system allows the number of expected hits to be calculated when developing a natural product library for a therapeutic target. There is an opportunity to create a natural product library from New Zealand endemic terrestrial flora. This model is scalable to other geographic areas as well as to other therapeutic targets and screening systems.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2734/', ['Biodiversity', 'Biotechnology', 'Microbiology', 'Drugs and Devices', 'Computational Science'], [u'Applied Industries, Nelson Marlborough Institute of Technology']]
[u'Differential drivers of chemical defenses in three widespread pine species along a 1500-m elevational gradient: a test of the elevational gradient in plant defense hypothesis', ['Scott Ferrenberg', 'Joseph M Langenhan', 'Steven A Loskot', 'Leonardo M Rozal', 'Jeffry B Mitton'], u'2017-01-18', u'1. The elevational gradient in plant defense (EGPD) hypothesis posits that natural enemy pressures increase positively alongside temperature across elevational climatic gradients, thereby selecting for enhanced defenses at lower elevations while leaving plants less defended at higher elevations. Phylogenetically constrained tests of this hypothesis in tree populations are exceedingly rare. Nevertheless, the presumed presence of poorly-defended trees has been invoked as an important driver of recent pest outbreaks at higher elevations than historically common.\n2. Tree age, growth rate, and size have all been correlated with levels of tree defenses. Thus, we sought to disentangle the interacting influences of these properties from possible elevational climatic effects on monoterpene composition, concentrations, and diversity of constitutive resin within three widespread pines (Pinus contorta, Pinus ponderosa, and Pinus flexilis) across a 1532 m elevational transect in the Rocky Mountains, Colorado, USA.\n3. Collectively, elevation and tree properties were relatively weak predictors of defenses in P. ponderosa and P. flexilis, but explained ~ 75% of variation in monoterpene concentration and ~ 50% of diversity in P. contorta.\n4. Increasing tree age had the greatest positive influence on monoterpene concentration and diversity in P. contorta, while increasing tree size had a negative influence suggesting a potential lifelong tradeoff between tree growth and defense. Elevation had a significant, negative influence on monoterpene concentration but little to no effect on monoterpene diversity in P. contorta.\n5. Overall, we found some support for the EGPD hypothesis within P. contorta, but no support within P. ponderosa or P. flexilis. Our results suggest the presence of divergent conifer defense allocation strategies and drivers even among congeners growing in shared environments. An improved understanding of the controls on tree defenses, particularly possible influences of climate-based drivers, is necessary for predicting forest pest dynamics under global change scenarios.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2733/', ['Ecology', 'Entomology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Colorado at Boulder', u'Southwestern Biological Sciences Center, United States Geological Survey', u'Department of Chemistry, Seattle University']]
[u'Differential gene expression analysis by RNA-seq reveals the importance of actin cytoskeletal proteins in leukemia cells', ['Vanessa Fernandez-Calleja', 'Pablo Hernandez', 'Jorge B Schvartzman', 'Dora B Krimer'], u'2017-01-18', u'Development of drug resistance limits the effectiveness of anticancer treatments. Understanding the molecular mechanisms triggering this event in tumor cells may lead to improved therapeutic strategies. Here we used RNA-seq to compare the transcriptomes of an erythroleukemia progenitor cell line (MEL-DS19) and a derived cell line with induced resistance to differentiation (MEL-R). RNA-seq analysis identified a total of 596 genes that were differentially expressed by more than two-fold, of which 486 genes were up-regulated in MEL-DS19 cells and 110 up-regulated in MEL-R cells. These observations revealed that the number of genes expressed in the parental cell line decreased as the cells acquired the resistant phenotype. Clustering analysis of a group of genes showing the highest differential expression allowed identification of a sub-group among genes up-regulated in MEL cells. These genes are related with the organization of the actin cytoskeleton network. Moreover, the majority of these genes are preferentially expressed in the hematopoietic lineage and at least three of them, Was (Wiskott Aldrich syndrome), Btk (Bruton tyrosine kinase) and Rac2, when mutated in humans, give rise to severe hematopoietic deficiencies. Among the group of genes that were up-regulated in MEL-R cells, a significant percentage (16%) corresponded to genes coding for histone proteins, both canonical and variants. A potential implication of these results on the blockade of differentiation in resistant cells is discussed.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2731/', ['Molecular Biology', 'Hematology'], [u'Department of Cellular and Molecular Biology, Centro de Investigaciones Biol\xf3gicas, Spanish National Research Council (CSIC)']]
[u'Effects of pre-mature harvest and heat exposure on physical and mechanical properties of Pandanus tectorius leaves', ['John A Toman'], u'2017-01-18', u'Plant materials have long been utilized for human use because of their wide range of physical properties and incredible mechanical efficiency as eco-friendly structures. One example of their use today is the practice of using the sturdy leaves of Pandanus tectorius for thatching purposes. An increase in modern demand for P. tectorius is pressuring farmers to deviate from traditional harvesting methods in an attempt to increase leaf yield. With little knowledge of the repercussions of their new practice, modern farmers are pre-maturely harvesting leaves through heat-induced leaf drying while the leaves remain on the tree. In this study, life-history characteristics, physical and mechanical properties of P. tectorius leaves on Mo\u2019orea, French Polynesia are examined to determine whether or not this deviation from traditional harvest methods reduces leaf efficacy as a thatching material. Quantitative measures of P. tectorius leaves suggest that pre-mature harvest does not alter the size of collected leaves for thatch because most leaves on a tree have already reached maximum growth. Heat-induced leaf drying, however, reduces the tensile strength of P. tectorius leaves by about 25%. Further research may find that this loss in leaf tensile strength may correlate to less robust roofing structures, hindered longevity and ultimately an increase in energy cost to repair and rebuild such structures.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2732/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Plant Science', 'Coupled Natural and Human Systems'], [u'Integrative Biology, University of California, Berkeley']]
