[u'Poleward and vertical migration of animals under climate change highlights possible environmental effects on social behaviour', ['Wenfa Ng'], u'2017-01-04', u'Temperature rise from climate change may completely change geological landscapes and environmental conditions at habitats previously conducive for specific animal species. Together with increasing difficulty in coping with greater fluctuations in temperature between seasons as well as reduced or enhanced precipitations in areas normally accustomed to consistent patterns of rainfall, variation in nutrient availability is another significant factor impacting on the survivability of animals in a specific area, particularly those in the mid-latitudes and on mountain slopes. Thus, prompted by the lack of nutrients or availability of water arising from climatic changes, many warm and cold-blooded species may migrate towards polar regions as well as higher altitudes of mountains in search of more habitable conditions. Such migrations open up myriad research opportunities into understanding how predators and prey adapt to changes in environmental factors and nutrient availability under climate change, which is accelerating in the polar regions. Specifically, predators and prey may differentially move to different locales with predators having to adapt to new food sources or change their foraging patterns, which, in turn, may impact on their social behaviours on parenting and hunting habits. An example would be lack of food sources prompting predators high in the food chain to adapt by having fewer offsprings, switching to available but less nutritious food, as well as changing foraging patterns. On the other hand, prey may use changes in geological formations between habitats to adapt their breeding patterns as well as foraging activities; for example, using camouflage available in the new environment to better protect their young from new and old predators. Similarly, species on the vertical transect of mountains would also move to higher altitudes to adapt to heat from global warming, or execute a poleward movement in search of more conducive habitats. Altogether, many interesting research directions are awaiting exploration as animal species move towards the poles or higher altitudes on mountains, prompted by rising temperatures that changed environmental conditions and nutrient availability. Mass migrations such as these may potentially unsettle entire ecosystems as species able to adapt to higher temperatures benefit from reduced competition, while those choosing the migratory path face an uncertain future in finding a habitable niche similar to the abandoned one, as well as ability to adapt to the new locale in foraging behaviour, breeding patterns and social behaviour. Possible changes in social behaviour is one significant area for understanding how climate change induced migration exert a selection pressure on animal behaviour and neural development. Interested researchers can expand on the ideas presented in this abstract preprint.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2696/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Biodiversity', 'Biogeography', 'Conservation Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Novena']]
[u'A scale to classify plastic marine debris into physical degradation stages', ['Sara C W Siqueira', 'Monica F Costa', 'Mario Barletta', 'David V Dantas'], u'2017-01-04', u'Marine debris are a widespread problem that affects every river basin, costal and marine environment ever studied for this pollutant. Its full characterization is paramount in the efforts to identify and abate sources, as well as in the raising filed of risk studies. In addition to variables as material, size, colour and shape, state of degradation is also an important feature to be observed, registered and included in numerical analysis that aim at describing marine debris spatio-temporal patterns of distribution. A scale that attributes three degrees, or states, of degradation (1 recent; 2 intermediate; 3 old) to individual marine debris items was created. It is described here together with the criteria adopted to classify among its categories. The scale allows for the inclusion of a relatively difficult to determine factor into statistical analysis as a categorical variable through recognizable levels of physical abrasion. Although degradation is a continuous process, when surveying plastic marine debris the large amount of items does not allow for detailed individual assessment (through chemical and mechanical tests, for instance), and therefore a quick direct observation method adds value to the work without overloading personnel, being time-consuming or resulting in excessive financial costs. We suggest that, until further studies are conduced, the scale is used to compare marine plastic debris items, mainly within surveys.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2695/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Laborat\xf3rio de Ecologia e Gerenciamento de Ecossistemas Costeiros e Estuarinos, Departamento de Oceanografia, Universidade Federal de Pernambuco', u'CERES, Universidade do Estado de Santa    Catarina']]
