[u'Exploring biomedical ontology mappings with graph theory methods', ['Simon Kocbek', 'Jin-Dong Kim'], u'2017-01-11', u'Background\n\nIn the era of semantic web, life science ontologies play an important role in tasks such as annotating biological objects, linking relevant data pieces, and verifying data consistency. Understanding ontology structures and overlapping ontologies is essential for tasks such as ontology reuse and development. We present an exploratory study where we examine structure and look for patterns in BioPortal, a comprehensive publicly available repository of live science ontologies.\n\nMethods\n\nWe report an analysis of biomedical ontology mapping data over time. We apply graph theory methods such as Modularity Analysis and Betweenness Centrality to analyse data gathered at five different time points. We identify communities, i.e., sets of overlapping ontologies, and define similar and closest communities. We demonstrate evolution of identified communities over time and identify core ontologies of the closest communities. We use BioPortal project and category data to measure community coherence. We also validate identified communities with their mutual mentions in scientific literature.\n\nResults\n\nWith comparing mapping data gathered at five different time points, we identified similar and closest communities of overlapping ontologies, and demonstrated evolution of communities over time. Results showed that anatomy and health ontologies tend to form more isolated communities compared to other categories. We also showed that communities contain all or the majority of ontologies being used in narrower projects. In addition, we identified major changes in mapping data after migration to BioPortal Version 4.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2715/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Science'], [u'Database Center for Life Science, Research Organization of Information and Systems', u'Kinghorn Centre for Clinical Genomics, Garvan Institute of Medical Research', u'Department of Computing and Information Systems, University of Melbourne']]
[u'Species-specific audio detection: A comparison of three template-based classification algorithms using random forests', ['Carlos J Corrada Bravo', 'Rafael Alvarez Berrios', 'T. Mitchell Aide'], u'2017-01-11', u'We developed a web-based cloud-hosted system that allow users to archive, listen, visualize, and annotate recordings. The system also provides tools to convert these annotations into datasets that can be used to train a computer to detect the presence or absence of a species. The algorithm used by the system was selected after comparing the accuracy and efficiency of three variants of a template-based classification. The algorithm computes a similarity vector by comparing a template of a species call with time increments across the spectrogram. Statistical features are extracted from this vector and used as input for a Random Forest classifier that predicts presence or absence of the species in the recording. The fastest algorithm variant had the highest average accuracy and specificity; therefore, it was implemented in the ARBIMON web-based system.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2713/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Department of Computer Science, University of Puerto Rico - Rio Piedras', u'Sieve Analytics, Inc.', u'Department of Biology, University of Puerto Rico - R\xedo Piedras']]
[u'Photoperiodic regime influences onset of lens opacities in a non-human primate', ['Marko Dubicanac', 'Julia Strueve', 'Nadine Mestre-Frances', 'Jean-Michel Verdier', 'Elke Zimmermann', 'Marine Joly'], u'2017-01-11', u'Background. Opacities of the lens are typical age related phenomena which have high influence on photoreception and consequently circadian rhythm. In mouse lemurs, a small bodied non-human primate, a high incidence (more than 50% when > 7 years) of cataract has been previously described during aging. Previous studies showed that photoperiodical induced accelerated annual rhythms alter some of mouse lemurs\u2019 life history traits. Whether a modification of photoperiod also affects the onset of age dependent lens opacities has not been investigated so far. The aim of this study was therefore to characterize the type of opacity and the mouse lemurs\u2019 age at its onset in two colonies with different photoperiodic regimen. Methods. Two of the largest mouse lemur colonies in Europe have been investigated; Colony 1 with a natural annual photoperiodic regime and Colony 2 with an induced accelerated annual cycle. A Slit-lamp was used to determine opacities in the lens and a subset of all animals which showed no opacities in the lens nucleus in the first examination but developed first changes in the following examination were further used to estimate the age at onset of opacities. In total 387 animals were examined and 57 represent the subset for age at onset estimation. Results. The first and most common observable opacity in the lens was nuclear sclerosis. Mouse lemurs from Colony 1 showed a delayed onset of nuclear sclerosis compared to mouse lemurs of Colony 2 (4.35 \xb1 1.50 years vs. 2.75 \xb1 0.99 years). For colony 1, the chronological age was equivalent to the number of seasonal cycles experienced by the mouse lemurs. For colony 2, in which seasonal cycles are accelerated by factor 1.5, mouse lemurs had experienced 4.13 \xb1 1.50 seasonal cycles in 2.75 \xb1 0.99 chronological years. Discussion. Our study showed clear differences in the age at the onset of nuclear sclerosis formation between lemurs kept under different photoperiodic regimes. Instead of measuring the chronological age, the number of seasonal cycles (N = 4) experienced by a mouse lemur can be used as an estimation for risk of beginning NS formation. Ophthalmological investigations should be taken into account when animals older than 5 - 6 seasonal cycles are used for experiments in which unrestricted visual ability has to be ensured. This study is the first to assess and demonstrate the influence of annual photoperiod regime on the incidence of lens opacities in a non-human primate.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2714/', ['Veterinary Medicine', 'Ophthalmology'], [u'Institute of Zoology, Tier\xe4rztliche Hochschule Hannover', u'Clinic for Small Animals, Tier\xe4rztliche Hochschule Hannover', u'Department of Health and Biology, INSERM', u'Centre for Comparative and Evolutionary Psychology, University of Portsmouth']]
