[u'From the desktop to the grid and cloud: conversion of KNIME workflows to WS-PGRADE', ['Luis de la Garza', 'Fabian Aicheler', 'Oliver Kohlbacher'], u'2017-03-04', u'Computational analyses for research usually consist of a complicated orchestration of data flows, software libraries, visualization, selection of adequate parameters, etc. Structuring these complex activities into a collaboration of simple, reproducible and well defined tasks brings down complexity and increases reproducibility. This is the basic notion of workflows. Workflow engines allow users to create and execute workflows, each having unique features. In some cases, certain features offered by platforms are royalty-based, hindering use in the scientific community. We present our efforts to convert whole workflows created in the Konstanz Information Miner Analytics Platform to the Web Services Parallel Grid Runtime and Developer Environment. We see the former as a great workflow editor due to its considerable user base and user-friendly graphical interface. We deem the latter as a great backend engine able to interact with most major distributed computing interfaces. We introduce work that provides a platform-independent tool representation, thus assisting in the conversion of whole workflows. We also present the challenges inherent to workflow conversion across systems, as well as the ones posed by the conversion between the chosen workflow engines, along with our proposed solution to overcome these challenges. The combined features of these two platforms (i.e., intuitive workflow design on a desktop computer and execution of workflows on distributed high performance computing interfaces) greatly benefit researchers and minimize time spent in technical chores not directly related to their area of research.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2849/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Distributed and Parallel Computing'], [u'Center for Bioinformatics, Department of Computer Science, University of T\xfcbingen']]
[u'Denitrifying bacterial communities in surface-flow constructed wetlands during different seasons : characteristics and relationships with environment factors', ['Jiaming Wei', 'wei Li', 'lijuan cui', 'yinru lei'], u'2017-03-04', u'Denitrification is an important part of the nitrogen cycle and the key step to removal of nitrogen in surface-flow wetlands. Denitrifying bacteria also function in denitrification. In this study, we explored space-time analysis with high-throughput sequencing to elucidate the relationships between denitrifying bacteria community structures and environmental factors during different seasons. Our results showed that along the flow direction of different processing units, there were dynamic changes in physical and chemical indicators. The bacterial abundance indexes (ACEs) in May, August, and October were 686.8, 686.8, and 996.2, respectively, whereas the Shannon-Weiner indexes were3.718, 4.303, and 4.432, respectively. Along the flow direction, the denitrifying bacterial abundance initially increased and then decreased subsequently during the same months, although diversity tended to increase. The abundance showed similar changes during the different months. Surface flow wetlands mainly contained the following denitrifying bacteria genus: unclassified Bacteria (37.12%), unclassified Proteobacteria (18.16%), Dechloromonas (16.21%), unranked environmental samples (12.51%), unclassified Betaproteobacteria (9.73%), unclassified Rhodocyclaceae (2.14%), and Rhodanobacter (1.51%). During different seasons, the same species processing units showed alternating changes, and during the same season, bacterial community structures were influenced by the second genus proportion in different processing units. ACEs were strongly correlated with temperature, dissolved oxygen, and pH. Bacterial diversity was strongly correlated with temperature, electrical conductivity, pH, and oxidation reduction potential. All denitrifying bacterial species were greatly affected by environmental factors, including temperature and pH, and the effects of electrical conductivity and oxidation reduction potential were similar.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2848/', ['Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Microbiology'], [u'Institute of Wetland Research, Chinese Academy of Forestry', u'The Beijing Key Laboratory of Wetland Ecological Function and Restoration', u'Beijing Hanshiqiao National Wetland Ecosystem Research Station']]
