[u'AFCMHeatMap: A shiny web tool for HeatMap generation of genetic expression datasets using R packages', ['Mohammad Tarek', 'Ayman S Shafei', 'Mahmoud A Ali'], u'2017-05-02', u"Generating heatmaps of genes datasets have been known to be a graphical representation of data where the individual values contained in a matrix are represented as colors. Herein, we describe AFCMHeatMap a shiny web App that integrates quantitative interaction genomics data and results from microarrays or RNA-Seq to highlight expression levels of various genetic datasets with a .CSV input file. The application also facilitates downloading heatmaps as a supplementary material for user's publications. Written in R using Shiny framework, it is a user-friendly framework for integrative genetic analyses that can be easily deployed across various operating systems distributions.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2961/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genetics', 'Genomics', 'Computational Science'], [u'Bioinformatics Department, Armed Forces College of Medicine (AFCM)', u'Biomedical sciences Department, Armed Forces College of Medicine (AFCM)', u'Microbiology Department, Armed Forces College of Medicine (AFCM)']]
[u'Virtual reality: a railroad for structural bioinformatics towards advanced cancer research', ['Dheeraj Prakaash', 'Ravikumar R Kodagahally', 'Mallesha Honnaiah'], u'2017-05-02', u'Technology has been a part of everyone\u2019s life for decades now, and its impact on our lifestyle only seems to increase with time. Considering applications in the field of scientific research till date, it has made exponential advancements and created a new hallmark. \u2018Virtual Reality\u2019 is one of the most applicable, impressive and recently uplifted technologies that has been implemented in numerous approaches already. In the light of structural biological studies, virtual reality technology enables immersive 3D visualization of molecular structures, interactions, mechanisms etc., and molecular modelling at the atomic level facilitating a better understanding of the \u2018science behind the scene\u2019. In molecular cancer studies, this helps peruse and diagnose defective root causes and unveil effective therapeutic approaches. Although this technology has primarily interested a huge number of researchers and institutes performing structural bioinformatics studies, many researchers across the globe and a large section of the public are still in the dark about its practicality and benefits, some of the main reasons being lack of exposure and the issue with affordability. Thus, besides shedding light on the various ways in which virtual reality has been lately implied to cancer research and therapy, this article aims to promote and encourage usage of a simple, cost-effective platform for 3D immersive visualization of molecular structures for the insufficiently funded community to begin with experiencing molecular virtual reality. It also intends to propose a new permutation of concepts to contribute to an advanced approach in structural cancer studies where scientists can superlatively immerse into the cellular environments and seek answers by virtually communicating with the entities in the microscopic realm. This versatile technology has thus far inevitably proven to possess an enormous potential and is already underway in revolutionizing education, training, scientific research and medical therapy. This article aims to educate more people about prevailing VR technologies and primarily to help accelerate this futuristic technique in cancer research and therapeutics. Albeit leading to a progress in scientific exploration, it could also spread hope and soon assist in upgrading the quality of living especially for cancer victims.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2960/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Oncology', 'Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'Research and Development Centre, Robust Materials Technology Pvt. Ltd.']]
