[u'Changes in the spatial and temporal pattern of natural forest cover on Hainan Island from the 1950s to the 2010s\uff1aimplications for natural forest conservation and management', ['Siliang Lin', 'Yaozhu Jiang', 'Jiekun He', 'Guangzhi Ma', 'Yang Xu', 'Haisheng Jiang'], u'2017-03-20', u'The study of the past, present, and future state and dynamics of the tropical natural forest cover (NFC) might help to better understand the pattern of deforestation and fragmentation as well as the influence of social and natural processes. The obtained information will support the development of effective conservation policies and strategies. In the present study, we used historical data of the road network, topography, and climatic productivity to reconstruct NFC maps of Hainan Island, China, from the 1950s to the 2010s, using the random forest algorithm. We investigated the spatial and temporal patterns of NFC change from the 1950s to the 2010s and found that it was highly dynamic in both space and time. Our data showed that grid cells with low NFC were more vulnerable to NFC decrease, suggesting that conservation actions regarding natural forests need to focus on regions with low NFC and high ecological value. We also identified the hot-spots of NFC change, which provides insights into the dynamic changes of natural forests over time.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2884/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Soil Science'], [u'School of Life Science, South China Normal University']]
[u'Comparative study of Cd uptake and tolerance of two Italian ryegrass (Lolium multiflorum) cultivars', ['Zhigang Fang', 'Laiqing Lou', 'Zhenglan Tai', 'Yufeng Wang', 'Lei Yang', 'Zhubing Hu', 'Qingsheng Cai'], u'2017-03-20', u'Cadmium (Cd) is one of the most toxic heavy metals and is difficult to remove from contaminated soil and water. Italian ryegrass (Lolium multiflorum), as an energy crop, exhibits a valuable potential to develop Cd polluted sites due to its use as a biofuel rather than as food and forage. Previously, via a screening for Cd-tolerant ryegrass, the two most extreme cultivars (IdyII and Harukaze) with high and low Cd tolerance during seed germination, respectively, were selected. However, the underlying mechanism for Cd tolerance was not well investigated. In this study, we comparatively investigated the growth, physiological responses, and Cd uptake and translocation of IdyII and Harukaze when the seedlings were exposed to a Cd (0-100 \xb5M) solution for 12 days. As expected, excess Cd inhibited seedling growth and was accompanied by an accumulation of malondialdehyde (MDA) and reduced photosynthetic pigments in both cultivars. The effects of Cd on the uptake and translocation of other nutrient elements (Zn, Fe, Mn and Mg) were dependent on Cd concentrations, cultivars, plant tissues and elements. Compared with Harukaze, IdyII exhibited better performance with less MDA and higher pigment content. Furthermore, IdyII was less efficient in Cd uptake and translocation compared to Harukaze, which might be explained by the higher NPT (non-protein thiols) content in its roots. Taken together, our data indicate that IdyII is more tolerant than Harukaze, which partially resulted from the differences in Cd uptake and translocation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2883/', ['Plant Science', 'Toxicology'], [u'College of Life Sciences, Nanjing Agricultural University', u'Kashghar University']]
