[u'Linearization improves the repeatability of quantitative Dynamic Contrast-Enhanced MRI', ['Kyle M. Jones', 'Marisa H. Borders', 'Kimberly A. Fitzpatrick', 'Mark D. Pagel', 'Julio Cardenas-Rodriguez'], u'2017-02-21', u'We studied the effect of linearization on the repeatability of the Tofts and reference region models (RRM) for Dynamic Contrast-Enhanced MRI (DCE MRI). We compared the repeatabilities of these two linearized models, the standard non-linear version, and semi-quantitative methods of analysis. Simulated and experimental DCE MRI data from 12 rats with a flank tumor of C6 glioma acquired over three consecutive days were analyzed using four quantitative and semi-quantitative DCE MRI metrics. The quantitative methods used were: 1) Linear Tofts model (LTM), 2) Non-linear Tofts model (NTM), 3) Linear RRM (LRRM), and 4) Non-linear RRM (NRRM). The following semi-quantitative metrics were used: 1) Maximum enhancement ratio (MER), 2) time to peak (TTP), 3) initial area under the curve (iauc64), and 4) slope. LTM and NTM were used to estimate Ktrans, while LRRM and NRRM were used to estimate Ktrans relative to muscle (RKtrans). Repeatability was assessed by calculating the within-subject coefficient of variation (wSCV) and the percent intra-subject variation (iSV) determined with the Gage repeatability and reproducibility (R&R) analysis. The iSV for RKtrans using LRRM was two-fold lower compared to NRRM at all simulated and experimental conditions. A similar trend was observed for the Tofts model, where LTM was at least 50% more repeatable than the NTM under all experimental and simulated conditions. The semi-quantitative metrics iauc64 and MER were as equally reproducible as Ktrans and RKtrans estimated by LTM and LRRM respectively. The iSV for iauc64 and MER were significantly lower than the iSV for slope and TTP. In simulations and experimental results, linearization improves the repeatability of quantitative DCE MRI by at least 30%, making it as repeatable as semi-quantitative metrics.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2824/', ['Mathematical Biology', 'Radiology and Medical Imaging', 'Statistics'], [u'Biomedical Engineering, University of Arizona', u'Medical Imaging, University of Arizona']]
[u'Suitable reporting for the reproducible research: an added value in the analysis of proteomics data', ['Eugenio Del Prete', 'Angelo Facchiano', 'Aldo Profumo', 'Claudia Angelini', 'Paolo Romano'], u'2017-02-21', u'Introduction\n\nComputational reproducibility refers to the possibility of reconstructing all the steps of a workflow that connects raw data, processed data and results: it is a fundamental issue in the omic studies because of the complex and high-dimensional nature of the involved data. The analysis of omics data needs to exploit multi-step workflows including pre-processing, elaboration, statistical validation, interpretation and presentation. Although some analysis platforms are able to ensure computational reproducibility for different omics studies, they do not provide explicit information about the executed code. The availability of the code increases the quality of research in terms of transparency and knowledge transfer. Moreover, it allows other researchers to reproduce the results in a local system, make a comparison among the results and re-use computer code for analyzing different dataset.\n\nMethods\n\nGeena 2 is a robust web tool for MALDI-ToF mass spectra pre-processing. Its main output is the list of common peaks identified by aligning average spectra originated from groups of replicates from different samples. Intermediate results are also made available. GeenaR is an extension of Geena 2 still under development. Its objective is the integration in the platform of some R libraries, which may provide advanced statistical analyses, thus enriching the current output. It is noteworthy that many R packages follow the reproducible research philosophy.For the aims of GeenaR, the following R packages and tools have been considered: R-Markdown, knitr and spin. The implementation of these resources on an existing web platform can be an added value for its reporting features, since it improves the creation of a report about the work carried out, especially with reference to the code.\n\nResults and Discussion\n\nOne of the aims of both Geena 2 and GeenaR is facilitating the users in analyzing MALDI-ToF mass spectra by providing a web-interface that allows to upload data, select different algorithms and parameters, execute the analysis in order to obtain results according to a specific demand. Thanks to the novel reproducible research module implemented in GeenaR, the system generates a report containing all the steps performed. More in details, the report will provide: date and time of the execution, the R libraries used for the process, chunks of code for main elaborations, selected parameters (either by the users or by the system), uploaded data in MALDIquant \u2018Mass Spectrum\u2019 class type, numerical and graphical results, short explanation about the workflow, version of the system and of the packages. GeenaR generates the results in a compressed archive, with separated log and graphical results, and a report, both in R-Markdown and in HTML format. It is important to underline strongly that reproducible research is not an optional, but a fundamental component of a good computational practice, which becomes essential in computational biology.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2823/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Data Science'], [u'Department of Sciences, University of Basilicata', u'Institute of Food Sciences, National Research Council', u'IRCCS AOU San Martino IST, National Institute for Cancer Research', u'Institute for Calculus Applications "Mauro Picone", National Research Council']]
[u'Evaluating multi-locus phylogenies for species boundaries determination in the genus Diaporthe', ['Liliana Santos', 'Artur Alves', 'Rui Alves'], u'2017-02-21', u'Background. Species identification is essential for controlling disease, understanding epidemiology, and to guide the implementation of phytosanitary measures against fungi from the genus Diaporthe. Accurate Diaporthe species separation requires using multi-loci phylogenies. However, defining the optimal set of loci that can be used for species identification is still an open problem. Methods. Here, we addressed that problem by identifying five loci that have been sequenced in 142 Diaporthe isolates representing 96 species: TEF1, TUB, CAL, HIS and ITS. We then used every possible combination of those loci to build, analyse, and compare phylogenetic trees. Results. As expected, species separation is better when all five loci are simultaneously used to build the phylogeny of the isolates. However, removing the ITS locus has little effect on reconstructed phylogenies, identifying the TEF1-TUB-CAL-HIS four loci tree as almost equivalent to the five loci tree. We further identify the best 3-loci, 2-loci, and 1-locus trees that should be used for species separation in the genus. Discussion. Our results question the current use of the ITS locus for DNA barcoding in the genus Diaporthe and suggest that TEF1 might be a better choice if one locus barcoding needs to be done.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2822/', ['Microbiology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Mycology'], [u'Departamento de Biologia, CESAM, Universidade de Aveiro', u'Departament de Ci\xe8ncies M\xe8diques B\xe0siques, Universitat de Lleida and IRBLleida']]
[u'The influence of metabolic network structures and energy metabolic pattern on E. coli K12 exposed to acoustic field: based on Gene Ontology and KEGG pathway enrichment analysis', ['Shaobin Gu', 'Suyu Qiao', 'Ying Wu'], u'2017-02-21', u'Microorganism is an important part of ecosystems; it is very sensitive to environmental change. In order to study the effects of sound on organisms, it\u2019s meaningful to study mechanism of microbial exposure to sound. In our previous experiments, the effects of different sound intensity and frequency on the growth of E. coli K12 were studied. It was found that in stationary phase the bacteria concentration of sound expose group was higher than control. In this study, we aimed to understand the mechanisms of E. coli underlying sound expose by using Gene Ontology and KEGG Pathway Enrichment Analysis, and established a systematic pathway for the E. coli response to sound expose. At 6 hour, the chemotaxis pathway was significantly up-regulated which responses to the changes of the external environment and leads bacteria to favorable environment. At 12 hour, the glycerophospholipid pathway was significant up-regulated, it is related to the energy metabolism and cell division. At 24 hours, the energy metabolism, nucleotide synthesis and transcriptional translation pathways were significant differences. When bacteria entered the stationary phase (36 hour), in sound exposure group the pathways related to reduce the harmful substances were down-regulated and the pathways about degrade aromatic compounds provides energy were up-regulated, so that the E. coli K12 in sound exposure have a better ability to adapt poor living environment. Comparative transcriptome analysis of sound exposed E. coli K12 can not only reveal the behavior of E. coli K12 response to sound expose, but also lay a foundation for further study the mechanism of prokaryotes response to physical stimulus.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2821/', ['Genomics', 'Microbiology'], [u'College of Food and Bioengineering, Henan University of Science and Technology', u'Luoyang Engineering and Technology Research Center of Microbial Fermentationon']]
