[u'How to be a great dad: Parental care in a flock of greater flamingo (Phoenicopterus roseus)', ['Camillo Sandri', 'Vittoria Vallarin', 'Carolina Sammarini', 'Barbara Regaiolli', 'Alessandra Piccirillo', 'Caterina Spiezio'], u'2017-03-23', u'The zoo-science literature on flamingos, and avian species in general, is lacking. However, this kind of research is important to improve the knowledge on these species and to improve their ex-situ and in-situ conservation. The aims of the present study were to assess the welfare of a captive colony of greater flamingo hosted at Parco Natura Viva, an Italian zoological garden, through ethological parameters and to improve the knowledge on this species in zoological gardens. In particular, the present study investigated and compared the parental care of females and males in 35 breeding pairs of greater flamingos. For each pair, we collected data on the parental care behaviour of both females and males, recording their position in relation to the nest (near the nest, on the nest, away from the nest) and the behavioural category that was performed. The main results were that males spent more time than females on the nest and near it and were more aggressive toward other flamingos. Therefore, male flamingos seem to be more involved in incubation duties and nest protection than females. Greater flamingos of this study performed species-specific behaviours. Both parents were involved in parental care and displayed all the activities reported in the wild. Therefore, the study flock of greater flamingos seems to be in a good welfare. This kind of research is important not only to expand the knowledge on bird species such as flamingos, but also to improve their husbandry and breeding in controlled environment.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2887/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Conservation Biology'], [u'Department of Animal Health Care and Management, Parco Natura Viva - Garda Zoological Park', u'Department of Neurosciences, University of Parma', u'Research and Conservation Department, Parco Natura Viva - Garda Zoological Park', u'Department of Comparative Biomedicine and Food Science (BCA), University of Padua']]
[u'The influence of storage time and temperature on propofol concentrations in canine blood and plasma', ['Sherry Cox', 'Joan Bailey', 'Chika Okafor', 'Reza Seddighi', 'Tom Doherty'], u'2017-03-22', u'Propofol is an intravenous anesthetic commonly used due to its favorable pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic profile. There are discrepancies in the literature about the most appropriate sample for determining propofol concentrations. Although plasma has been used for determining propofol concentrations, whole blood has been the preferred sample because propofol is significantly bound to erythrocytes. There is also a lack of consistency in the literature on the effect of storage time and temperature on propofol concentrations and this may lead to errors in the design of pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamics studies. The purpose of this study was to determine the difference in propofol concentrations in whole blood versus plasma and to evaluate the influence of storage time (56 days) and temperature (4\xb0C, -20\xb0C, -80\xb0C) on the stability of propofol concentrations in blood and plasma samples. Results from the study indicate that whole blood and plasma samples containing propofol were stable for at least 56 days when stored at -80\xb0C; thus, -80\xb0C is the most appropriate temperature for propofol sample storage out of the three temperatures evaluated. Plasma propofol concentrations were consistently higher than whole blood for all 3 storage temperatures. Consequently, plasma is the most appropriate sample for propofol analysis due to its consistent determinations.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2885/', ['Veterinary Medicine', 'Pharmacology'], [u'Biomedical and Diagnostic Sciences, University of Tennessee - Knoxville', u'Large Animal Clinical Sciences, University of Tennessee - Knoxville']]
[u'Microsatellite markers for Sturnira parvidens (Illumina paired-end sequences), and cross species amplification with other bats of the genus', ['Edgar G Gutierrez', 'Giovani Hernandez Canchola', 'Livia S Leon Paniagua', 'Norberto Martinez Mendez', 'Jorge Ortega'], u'2017-03-22', u'Background. Sturnira is one of the most species-richness in the Neotropic, and it is found from Mexico, Lesser Antilles to Argentina. Genus forms a well-supported monophyletic clade with at least twenty-one recognized species, and several under taxonomic review. Sturnira parvidens is a widespread frugivorous bat of the deciduous forest in the Neotropics, highly abundant, and a major component in the fruit dispersal to regenerate ecosystems. It can be consider a non-model organism to isolate and characterize polymorphic microsatellites.Methods. We used a technique based on Illumina paired-end sequencing of a library highly enriched for microsatellite repeats to develop loci for S. parvidens. We analyzing millions of resulting reads with specific software to extract those reads that contained di-, tri-, tetra-, penta-, and hexanucleotide microsatellites.Results. We select and test 14 polymorphic (di, tri, and tetra) microsatellites. All markers were genotyped on 26 different individuals from distinct locations of its distributional area. We observed medium\u2013high genetic variation across most loci, but only 12 were functional polymorphic. Levels of expected heterozygosity across all markers was high to medium (mean HE = 0.79, mean HO = 0.72). We probed ascertainment bias in twelve bats of the genus, obtaining null/monomorphic/polymorphic amplifications.Discussion. Illumina paired-end sequencing system is capable to identify massive microsatellite loci, expending few time, reducing costs, and providing a large amount of data. Described polymorphic loci for S. parvidens particularly, and the genus, could be suitable for further genetic analysis, including taxonomic inconsistencies, parenting/relatedness analysis, and population genetics assessments.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2886/', ['Ecology', 'Genetics', 'Molecular Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Zoology, Instituto Polit\xe9cnico Nacional /ENCB', u'Zoolog\xeda, Facultad de Ciencias, UNAM']]
