[u'A new reconstruction of Struthiosaurus austriacus Bunzel 1871', ['Norbert Frotzler'], u'2017-01-27', u'A novel reconstruction of the nodosaurid dinosaur Struthiosaurus austriacus Bunzel 1871 is presented. Because bones and dermal armor are preserved as disarticulated elements only and because of the lack of field notes from the original excavation(s), any attempt to reconstruct the animal is complicated. To date, no reconstruction is available for Struthiosaurus austriacus. This study primarily focuses on aspects of function and arrangement of dermal armor. The re-investigation of the original material of S. austriacus revealed that - in all likelihood - many plates from the left side of the body may well belong to a single individual. This observation is an important step towards the successful reconstruction of S. austriacus.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2758/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Palaeontology, University of Vienna']]
[u'Effect of Phalaris aquatica on the abundance and diversity of vertebrate animals in Mediterranean coastal grasslands in California', ['Angela Joseph', 'Basma Nazal', 'Neha Saini', 'Farwa Sajadi', 'Ryan Ye'], u'2017-01-26', u'Harding grass (Phalaris aquatica), an invasive non-native species of bunchgrass, has been introduced to grasslands in many regions of California, particularly those with a history of disturbance, such as tilling and grazing. Due do the invasive nature of Harding grass, we sought to examine whether it has an effect on small animal abundance and diversity in the grasslands, Rancho Marino Reserve (RM) and Fiscalini Ranch Preserve (FR) in California. Both grasslands have similar climate and geographic location but differ in management history. Two transects were created in each site, with eight plots per transect. Animal cameras were deployed over the course of three nights to examine the abundance and diversity of small animals. Due to the history of tilling and planting of RM, and its increase in P. aquatica  coverage, there was less animal abundance and diversity compared to FR. The results indicated that the untilled/unplanted areas had more animal abundance and diversity compared to tilled/planted due to the lack of Harding Grass. This can be due to factors such as diminished soil quality, difficulty in maneuvering in the tall grass, and adaptability to native vegetative state. Invasive plants have the ability to increase rapidly in space and potentially lead to ecosystem degradation. This adds further knowledge in the relationship between small animals and their habitats and helps conservation biologists ensure mammalian populations remain stable.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2756/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Animal Behavior', 'Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of Biology, York University', u'Department of Biomedical Science, York University', u'Department of Biology, University of Western Ontario']]
[u'Evolutionary response to the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau uplift: Phylogeny and biogeography of Ammopiptanthus and tribe Thermopsideae (Fabaceae)', ['Wei Shi', 'Pei-Liang Liu', 'Lei Duan', 'Bo-Rong Pan', 'Zhi-Hao Su'], u'2017-01-26', u'Based on sequence data from the nuclear ITS and four cpDNA regions (matK, trnH-psbA, trnL-trnF, rbcL), phylogeny of the tribe Thermopsideae was inferred. Our analyses supported this tribe being merged into a monophyletic Sophoreae in a broad sense, with exclusion of Pickeringia. Genera of Sophoreae were separated into the Thermopsoid clade and Sophoroid clade. Monophyly of Anagyris, Baptisia and Piptanthus were basically supported in the Thermopsoid clade. Ammopiptanthus, consisting of A. mongolicus and A. nanus, nested within the Sophoroid clade, with Salweenia as its sister. Ammopiptanthus and Salweenia disjunctively distributed in desert of Northwestern China and Hengduan Mountains, respectively. Divergence age was estimated based on the ITS phylogenetic analysis. Emergence of the common ancestor of Ammopiptanthus and Salweenia, divergence between these two genera, and split of Ammopiptanthus species occurred at approximately 26.96 Ma, 4.74 Ma and 2.04 Ma, respectively, which may be response to the second, third, fourth rapid uplift of the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau, respectively.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2757/', ['Biodiversity', 'Biogeography', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Plant Science'], [u'Key Laboratory of Biogeography and Bioresource in Arid Land, Institute of Ecology and Geography in Xinjiang, The Chinese Academy of Sciences', u'Turpan Eremophytes Botanic Garden, The Chinese Academy of Sciences', u'College of Life Sciences, Northwest A&F University', u'Key Laboratory of Plant Resources Conservation and Sustainable Utilization, South China Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences']]
[u'The genetic history of the Indian subcontinent', ['David G. Mahal'], u'2017-01-26', u'The human male specific Y-chromosome passes from father to son essentially unchanged, but occasionally a random change, known as a mutation, occurs. These mutations, also called markers, serve as beacons and can be mapped. When geneticists identify a mutation in a DNA test, they try to determine when it first occurred and in which part of the world. Thus, the Y-chromosome haplogroup, which is a population group descended from a common ancestor, can be used to trace the paternal lines of men. The poster describes a research project that aims to identify the ancient geographical origins of key ethnic communities of the Indian subcontinent, based on their Y-DNA haplogroups.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2755/', ['Anthropology', 'Genetics', 'Genomics'], [u'School of Sport and Biomedical Sciences, The University of Bolton (UK)']]
[u'Visitor perceptions and reliance on active and passive communication techniques in zoos', ['Dustin J. Foote', 'Matthew I. M. Louder', 'Christopher N. Balakrishnan'], u'2017-01-26', u'The goal of educating the public about environmental and conservation issues is found in the mission statements of almost every zoo in the world. In order to effectively teach their visitors, zoos must understand how they are communicating with their public. In this study, we attempt to quantify how Sylvan Heights Bird Park (SHBP) communicates with its visitors. SHBP is a small not-for-profit facility that specializes in birds, with a primary focus on waterfowl (Anseriformes). Located in an economically depressed eastern North Carolina county (Halifax), SHBP receives over 46,000 visitors a year. Using a survey, we collected information of visitor perceptions of the role of zoos, their reliance on different sources of information, and their retention of information provided via different modes of communication. SHBP visitors listed exhibit signage (passive communication) as the preferred method of gaining information. Interestingly, however, we found that reliance on signage varied with age and gender and we found no difference in information retention between visitors that experienced only passive communication (signage) versus those that experienced active communication. Just over half (51%) of visitors viewed the primary purpose of a zoo to be entertainment but this view changed with age and gender. Although almost all respondents identified the role of zoos in maintaining biodiversity, we found a disconnect between this view and an understanding of how zoos might contribute to species conservation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2754/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Biology, East Carolina University', u'Department of Psychology, City University of New York, Hunter College']]
[u'Collaborative research: about licensing, waiving, and ownership', ['Egon Willighagen'], u'2017-01-26', u'Research collaborations are hampered by copyright law. While these laws are aimed at solving sustainability of writing and later other creative processes, and nowadays knowledge too, the make it harder in a time where research is funded with on temporary projects. This article discusses some of the aspects involved, though the legal foundations are only minimally brought up. One critical aspect is the role of consortium agreements. It also outlines how open licenses can simplify international research, particularly when multiple research projects are involved and when projects have ended.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2753/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Ethical Issues', 'Legal Issues'], [u'Dept. Bioinformatics - BiGCaT, Maastricht University']]
