[u'System-on-chip sensor fusion front-end self-healing design for network-on-chip digital communications', ['Emmanuel Seaman', 'Jason Du'], u'2017-01-03', u'With the ultra-scaling of CMOS technology, high-speed and low-power millimeter-wave communication systems for network-on-chip have been attracting more and more attentions due to the wider bandwidth and higher data rate that can meet the ever-increasing needs for multimedia, massive external data storage, or even biomedical applications. However, from manufacturing\u2019s perspective, the circuits implementations are increasingly susceptible to fabrication process variations with the scaling of CMOS technology, which results in loss of yield rate. To solve this issue, a sensor-fusion solution is proposed in this paper by adding multiple on-chip sensors, including power detectors, temperature sensors, information envelope detectors and related filters, instrumentation amplifiers using a standard CMOS process. These sensors and detectors aim to collect critical system performance and environmental parameters, which will be utilized by a self-healing and optimization algorithm to adjust the state of system components by digitized control knobs.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2694/', ['Emerging Technologies'], [u'EE, UCLA']]
[u'Which method is more accurate? or errors have error bars', ['Jan H Jensen'], u'2017-01-03', u'This document is my attempt at distilling some of the information in two papers published by Anthony Nicholls (J. Comput. Aided Mol. Des. 2014, 28, 887; ibid 2016, 30, 103). Anthony also very kindly provided some new equations, not found in the papers, in response to my questions. The paper describes how one determines whether the difference in accuracy of two methods in predicting some properties for the same data set is statistically significant using root-mean-square errors, mean absolute errors, mean errors, and Pearsons r values.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2693/', ['Biophysics', 'Computational Biology', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of  Chemistry, University of Copenhagen']]
[u'Expression and properties of lysyl oxidase from archeal halophile Haloterrigena turkmenica', ['Nikolay B Pestov', 'Daniel V Kalinovsky', 'Tatyana D Larionova', 'Alia Z Zakirova', 'Nikolai N Modyanov', 'Irina A Okkelman', 'Tatyana V Korneenko'], u'2017-01-03', u'Background: Lysyl oxidases (LOX) were studied mostly in mammals, whereas properties of recently found homologs in prokaryotic genomes remain enigmatic. Methods: LOX gene from  Haloterrigena turkmenica has been cloned by PCR in a E. coli expression vector. Protein purification has been done using metal affinity chromatography under denaturing conditions followed by refolding. Catalytic activity has been fluorometrically a release of hydrogen peroxide coupled with the oxidation of 10-acetyl-3,7-dihydroxyphenoxazine in the presence of horseradish peroxidase. Rabbit polyclonal antibodies were obtained and used in western blotting. Results: H. turkmenica LOX (HTU-LOX) may be successfully expressed in E. coli with a high yield. However, full-length protein gives no catalytic activity. On the other hand, a deletion of putative signal peptide allows the protein to be refolded into an active enzyme. Further deletion until the boundary of the catalytic C-terminal domain greatly increases the activity. Refolding is optimal at pH around 6.0, with addition of Cu2+, and surprisingly does not respond to changing concentration s of NaCl. The active HTU-LOX is sensitive to the lysyl oxidase inhibitor \u03b2-aminopropionitrile. HTU-LOX is active towards usual substrates of mammalian LOX such as lysine-containing basic peptides and polymers. The major difference between HTU-LOX and mammalian LOX is a relaxed specificity of the former. HTU-LOX readily oxidizes various amines including such compounds as taurine and glycine. Moreover, it is active also towards aminoglycoside antibiotics. Benzyl amine is a poor substrate for HTU-LOX. H. turkmenica cells or culture medium do not contain any detectable amine oxidase activity. Polyclonal antibodies against HTU-LOX detect a band among H. turkmenica proteins with the molecular weight corresponding to the unprocessed enzyme. Conclusion: H. turkmenica contains a lysyl oxidase gene that may give active recombinant enzyme with important biochemical features conserved, for example, sensitivity to \u03b2-aminopropionitrile. However, its function in the host may be cryptic. Significance: This is the first report on some properties of lysyl oxidase that originated from a horizontal transfer event into Archea.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2691/', ['Biochemistry', 'Microbiology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'GCLE, Shemyakin-Ovchinnikov Instutute of Bioorganic Chemistry', u'Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, University of Toledo']]
[u'An artificial immune system approach to automated program verification: Towards a theory of undecidability in biological computing', ['Soumya Banerjee'], u'2017-01-03', u'An immune system inspired Artificial Immune System (AIS) algorithm is presented, and is used for the purposes of automated program verification. Relevant immunological concepts are discussed and the field of AIS is briefly reviewed. It is proposed to use this AIS algorithm for a specific automated program verification task: that of predicting shape of program invariants. It is shown that the algorithm correctly predicts program invariant shape for a variety of benchmarked programs. Program invariants encapsulate the computability of a particular program, e.g. whether it performs a particular function correctly and whether it terminates or not. This work also lays the foundation for applying concepts of theoretical incomputability and undecidability to biological systems like the immune system that perform robust computation to eliminate pathogens.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2690/', ['Computational Biology', 'Adaptive and Self-Organizing Systems'], [u'University of Oxford']]
[u'Phylogenetic factorization of compositional data yields lineage-level associations in microbiome datasets', ['Alex D Washburne', 'Justin D Silverman', 'Jonathan W Leff', 'Dominic J Bennett', 'John L Darcy', 'Sayan Mukherjee', 'Noah Fierer', 'Lawrence A David'], u'2017-01-03', u'Marker gene sequencing of microbial communities has generated big datasets of microbial relative abundances varying across environmental conditions, sample sites and treatments. These data often come with putative phylogenies, providing unique opportunities to investigate how shared evolutionary history affects microbial abundance patterns. Here, we present a method to identify the phylogenetic factors driving patterns in microbial community composition. We use the method, "phylofactorization", to re-analyze datasets from the human body and soil microbial communities, demonstrating how phylofactorization is a dimensionality-reducing tool, an ordination-visualization tool, and an inferential tool for identifying edges in the phylogeny along which putative functional ecological traits may have arisen.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2685/', ['Computational Biology', 'Ecology', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Microbiology', 'Statistics'], [u'Nicholas School of the Environment, Duke University', u'Program for Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, Duke University', u'Medical Scientist Training Program, Duke University', u'Center for Genomic and Computational Biology, Duke University', u'Department of Molecular Genetics and Microbiology, Duke University', u'Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences, University of Colorado', u'Department of Earth Science and Engineering, Imperial College London', u'Institute of Zoology, Zoological Society of London', u'Department of Ecology and Evolution, University of Colorado Boulder', u'Department of Statistical Science, Mathematics, and Computer Science, Duke University']]
[u'Possible variation in microbiota community structure and composition in same species bred in zoos and a wildlife refuge, and its implications on reproductive success', ['Wenfa Ng'], u'2017-01-03', u'Considering the difficulty of breeding endangered species in captivity relative to those in the wild, specific environmental factors such as availability of roaming space and nutrition may be important reasons contributing to the relative lack of procreation capability in animals housed in zoos. Like humans, animals acquire their microbiota from the immediate environment they reside as well as from food. Specifically, the environs in which an animal grows and matures as well as nutrition play important roles in modulating the types and relative abundances of different microbes present on different parts of the animal body. Thus, differential microbiota may exist on animals in captivity and in the wild (e.g., a wildlife refuge or a national park), and this may impact on reproductive success. Hence, one research direction that could lay the foundation for understanding the microbiological underpinnings impacting on breeding success of animals in zoos may be the profiling of the gut and skin microbiota of endangered species such as pandas in zoos and in wildlife refuges. In particular, while most panda breeding programs around the world try to recapitulate the conditions and nutrient sources available in the native environment, significant differences remain such as the influence of human contact with pandas on the transfer of microbial species, as well as the amount and type of spaces available for roaming. By using a tracking and periodic sampling approach for understanding the microbial populations in the gut and skin of wild and zoo pandas, knowledge could be progressively accumulated on the microbiological evolution of animals throughout their lives in captivity or in the wild, and correlated with their relative success in procreation. Doing so would help unlock mysteries on fundamental questions of how does human contact and breeding programs change microbiome structure and function in zoo animals relative to wild pandas, and, more importantly, the roles of differential microbiota in health and disease of the animals, which directly impact on reproduction fitness. Taken together, success of breeding programs hinge on multitude of factors ranging from human influence on social behavior of pandas, nutrition, artificial recreated habitat, and microbiological environment of enclosure, but given the important roles of microbial species (alone and in aggregate) on animal physiology and neurobiology, profiling the possible differentiated microbiota of animals in captivity and the wild may be the first incision point for unveiling deeper mysteries of how microbes influence higher order animal function and decision making. Interested researchers can expand on the ideas presented herein.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2686/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Biochemistry', 'Conservation Biology', 'Microbiology', 'Zoology'], [u'Novena']]
[u'Among-site variability in the stochastic dynamics of East African coral reefs', ['Katherine A Allen', 'John F Bruno', 'Fiona Chong', 'Damian Clancy', 'Tim R McClanahan', 'Matthew Spencer', 'Kamila Zychaluk'], u'2017-01-03', u'Coral reefs are dynamic systems whose composition is highly influenced by unpredictable biotic and abiotic factors. Understanding the spatial scale at which long-term predictions of reef composition can be made will be crucial for guiding conservation efforts. Using a 22-year time series of benthic composition data from 20 reefs on the Kenyan and Tanzanian coast, we developed Bayesian vector autoregressive state-space models for reef dynamics, incorporating among-site variability, and quantified their long-term behaviour. We estimated that if there were no among-site variability, the total long-term variability would be approximately one third of its current value. Thus, our results showed that among-site variability contributes more to long-term variability in reef composition than does temporal variability. Individual sites were more predictable than previously thought, and predictions based on current snapshots are informative about long-term properties. Our approach allowed us to identify a subset of possible climate refugia sites with high conservation value, where the long-term probability of coral cover \\(\\leq\\) 0.1 was very low. Analytical results show that this probability is most strongly influenced by among-site variability and by interactions among benthic components within sites. These findings suggest that conservation initiatives might be successful at the site scale as well as the regional scale.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2687/', ['Biophysics', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'School of Environmental Sciences, University of Liverpool', u'Institute of Integrative Biology, University of Liverpool', u'Department of Biology, University of North Carolina at Chapel    Hill', u'School of Mathematical and Computer Sciences, Actuarial Mathematics and Statistics, Heriot-Watt University', u'Wildlife Conservation Society', u'Department of Mathematical Sciences, University of Liverpool']]
[u'Assessing value of biomedical digital repositories', ['Chun-Nan Hsu', 'Anita Bandrowski', 'Jeffery S Grethe', 'Maryann Martone'], u'2017-01-03', u'Digital repositories bring direct impacts and influence to the research community and society but at the moment it is challenging to objectively measure their value. We distinguished the difference between impacts and influence and discussed measures and mentions as the basis of a quality metric of a digital repository. It is challenging to define a single perfect metric that covers all quality aspects. We argue that these challenges may potentially be overcome through the introduction of standard resource identification and data citation practices. We briefly summarized our research and experience in the Neuroscience Information Framework, the BD2K BioCaddie project on data citation, and the Resource Identification Initiative. We outline our accomplishments and challenges ahead. Full implementation of these standards will depend on cooperation from all stakeholders --- digital repositories, authors, publishers, and funding agencies, for which we have been gaining support with endorsements and resource investments.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2688/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Digital Libraries', 'World Wide Web and Web Science'], [u'Medicine, Biomedical Informatics, University of California, San Diego', u'SciCrunch Inc.', u'University of California, San Diego, Center for Research In Biological Structure']]
[u'Do you speak open science? Resources and tips to learn the language', ['Paola Masuzzo', 'Lennart Martens'], u'2017-01-03', u'The internet era, large-scale computing and storage resources, mobile devices, social media, and their high uptake among different groups of people, have all deeply changed the way knowledge is created, communicated, and further deployed. These advances have enabled a radical transformation of the practice of science, which is now more open, more global and collaborative, and closer to society than ever. Open science has therefore become an increasingly important topic. Moreover, as open science is actively pursued by several high-profile funders and institutions, it has fast become a crucial matter to all researchers. However, because this widespread interest in open science has emerged relatively recently, its definition and implementation are constantly shifting and evolving, sometimes leaving researchers in doubt about how to adopt open science, and which are the best practices to follow.\nThis article therefore aims to be a field guide for scientists who want to perform science in the open, offering resources and tips to make open science happen in the four key areas of data, code, publications and peer-review.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2689/', ['Science and Medical Education'], [u'Department of Biochemistry, Ghent University', u'Medical Biotechnology Center, VIB']]
[u'Assessing coral health in Moorea, French Polynesia after a regional die-off of the coral antagonist, Dendropoma maxima', ["Liam O'Malley"], u'2017-01-03', u'Coral reefs are under pressure from numerous anthropogenic and natural threats. A species of vermetid worm, Dendropoma maxima, has a negative interaction with the corals it lives on. Vermetid worm interactions result in structural homogeneity of reef habitats, reduced coral growth, and increased coral death. Dendropoma maxima and corals have a naturally evolved competitive relationship. Therefore, it is inherent that removal of D. maxima from the environment would alleviate stress to coral associated with vermetid worm activity and lead to increased coral growth and survival. A 2015 die-off of D. maxima in French Polynesia is likely to have had direct positive effects to coral and cascading effects on reef community structure. The aim of this investigation was to contribute to the understanding of vermetid worm and coral interactions by quantifying the extent of stress on corals under reduced vermetid worm densities. This study measured D. maxima size and abundance on several coral types and assessed Porites coral health by the presence of pink lesions and growth along edges of coral. Surveys of D. maxima size and Porites coral health occurred at Temae Reef, Moorea in October and November 2016. Live D. maxima were less than half the size of dead D. maxima. Average size of live D. maxima was different between Porites coral and dead coral substrates and between Top or Side positions. There was a strong positive correlation between number of live D. maxima and number of lesions on Porites coral and positive correlation between live D. maxima and percent of coral death. A positive but insignificant correlation between number of live D. maxima and length of new growth was observed. The die-off of D. maxima in 2015 appears to have positively impacted coral health and the results are important to understanding shifts in community structure and ecological health, especially as environmental changes become more frequent in the future.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2692/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Biology, San Francisco State University', u'Department of Integrative Biology, University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'Vacuolar pH in yeast cells during pseudohyphal growth induced by nitrogen starvation', ['Koji Makanae'], u'2017-01-03', u'It has been reported that the intracellular pH of the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae is asymmetric between mother and daughter cells, and this asymmetry in pH underlies replicative aging and rejuvenation. S. cerevisiae growth morphology changes between the yeast form and pseudohyphal form, according to nutrient availability. A previous study reported that the replicative life span of pseudohyphal form cells is longer than that of yeast form cells in S. cerevisiae. However, the intracellular pH of pseudohyphal cells is unknown. To examine the intracellular pH of S. cerevisiae cells during pseudohyphal growth, vital staining was performed with neutral red, which is a pH indicator, of cells growing on nitrogen starvation (SLAD) medium. The results showed that the vacuoles of S. cerevisiae cells during pseudohyphal growth induced by nitrogen starvation formed polar pH gradients. The relationship between cell size and shape and the neutral red staining patterns suggested that the pH of cell vacuoles during pseudohyphal growth changed from uniformly near pH 6.8 to steep gradients of pH from vacuole ends along the long axis of the cell. The results of time-lapse imaging to examine vacuolar dynamics and neutral red staining suggested that the pH gradients were not formed simply by inheritance of vacuolar contents accompanying vacuolar movements.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2684/', ['Cell Biology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Non affiliated']]
