[u'The zebrafish as a model system for analyzing mammalian and native \u03b1-crystallin promoter function', ['Mason Posner', 'Kelly Murray', 'Hayden Eighinger', 'Amy Drossman', 'Zachary Haley', 'Justin Nussbaum', 'Larry L David', 'Kirsten J Lampi'], u'2017-03-24', u'Previous studies have used the zebrafish to investigate the biology of lens crystallin proteins and their roles in development and disease. However, little is known about zebrafish \u03b1-crystallin promoter function, how it compares to that of mammals, or whether mammalian \u03b1-crystallin promoter activity can be assessed using zebrafish embryos. We injected a variety of \u03b1-crystallin promoter fragments from each species combined with the coding sequence for green fluorescent protein (GFP) into zebrafish zygotes to determine the resulting spatiotemporal expression patterns in the developing embryo. We also measured mRNA levels and protein abundance for all three zebrafish \u03b1-crystallins. Our data showed that mouse and zebrafish \u03b1A-crystallin promoters generated similar GFP expression in the lens, but with earlier onset when using mouse promoters. Expression was also found in notochord and skeletal muscle in a small percentage of embryos. Mouse \u03b1B-crystallin promoter fragments drove GFP expression primarily in zebrafish skeletal muscle, with less common expression in notochord, lens, heart and in extraocular regions of the eye. A short fragment containing only a lens-specific enhancer region produced no GFP expression, suggesting that these lens responsive elements in the mouse are not used in the zebrafish. The two paralogous zebrafish \u03b1B-crystallin promoters produced subtly different expression profiles, with the \u03b1Ba promoter driving expression equally in notochord and skeletal muscle while the \u03b1Bb promoter resulted primarily in skeletal muscle expression. Messenger RNA for zebrafish \u03b1a, aBa and \u03b1Bb were all detected by 1 day post fertilization (dpf). Parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) mass spectrometry was used to detect \u03b1A, \u03b1Ba, and \u03b1Bb peptides in digests of zebrafish embryos. In whole embryos, \u03b1A-crystallin was first detected by 2 dpf, peaked in abundance by 4-5 dpf, and was localized to the eye. \u03b1Ba was also detected in whole embryo at nearly constant levels from 1-6 dpf, was also localized primarily to the eye, and its abundance in extraocular tissues decreased from 4-7 dpf. In contrast, due to its low abundance, no \u03b1Bb protein could be detected in whole embryo, or dissected eye and extraocular tissues. Our results show that mammalian \u03b1-crystallin promoters can be efficiently screened in zebrafish embryos and that their controlling regions are well conserved, although their use in each species may reflect evolutionary changes in developmental roles for \u03b1-crystallins. An ontogenetic shift in zebrafish \u03b1Ba-crystallin promoter activity provides an interesting system for examining the evolution and control of tissue specificity. Future studies that combine these promoter based approaches with the expanding ability to engineer the zebrafish genome via techniques such as CRISPR/Cas9 will allow the manipulation of protein expression to test hypotheses about lens crystallin function and its relation to lens biology and disease.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2889/', ['Developmental Biology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Neuroscience', 'Ophthalmology'], [u'Department of Biology/Toxicology, Ashland University', u'Department of Biology, Lakeland Community College', u'Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Oregon Health and Science University', u'Department of Integrative Biosciences, Oregon Health and Science University']]
[u'A public dataset of running biomechanics and the effects of running speed on lower extremity kinematics and kinetics', ['Reginaldo K Fukuchi', 'Claudiane A Fukuchi', 'Marcos Duarte'], u'2017-03-24', u'Background. The goals of this study were (1) to present the set of data evaluating running biomechanics (kinematics and kinetics), including data on running habits, demographics, and levels of muscle strength and flexibility made available at Figshare (DOI: 10.6084/m9.figshare.4543435); and (2) to examine the effect of running speed on selected gait-biomechanics variables related to both running injuries and running economy. Methods. The lower-extremity kinematics and kinetics data of 28 regular runners were collected using a three-dimensional (3D) motion-capture system and an instrumented treadmill while the subjects ran at 2.5 m/s, 3.5 m/s, and 4.5 m/s wearing standard neutral shoes. Results. A dataset comprising raw and processed kinematics and kinetics signals pertaining to this experiment is available in various file formats. In addition, a file of metadata, including demographics, running characteristics, foot-strike patterns, and muscle strength and flexibility measurements is provided. Overall, there was an effect of running speed on most of the gait-biomechanics variables selected for this study. However, the foot-strike patterns were not affected by running speed. Discussion. Several applications of this dataset can be anticipated, including testing new methods of data reduction and variable selection; for educational purposes; and answering specific research questions. This last application was exemplified in the study\u2019s second objective.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2888/', ['Bioengineering', 'Neuroscience', 'Kinesiology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Biomedical Engineering Program, Universidade Federal do ABC', u'Neuroscience and Cognition Graduate Program, Universidade Federal do ABC']]
