[u'The abundance and biomass of mesozooplankton and ichthyoplankton in the confluence boundary of the Negro and the Amazon Rivers', ['Ryota Nakajima', 'Elvis V Rimachi', 'Edinaldo N Santos-Silva', 'Adi Khen', 'Tetsuo Yamane', 'Anthony I Mazeroll', 'Jomber C Inuma', 'Erika YK Utumi', 'Akira Tanaka'], u'2017-01-31', u'The boundary zone between two different hydrological regimes is often a biologically enriched environment with distinct planktonic communities. In the center of the Amazon River basin, muddy white water of the Amazon River meets with black water of the Negro River, creating a conspicuous visible boundary spanning over 10 km along the Amazon River. Here, we tested the hypothesis that the confluence boundary between the white and black water rivers concentrates prey and is used as a feeding habitat for juvenile fish by investigating the abundance, biomass and distribution of mesozooplankton and ichthyoplankton communities across the two rivers. Our results show that mesozooplankton abundance and biomass were higher in the black-water river compared to the white-water river; however an exceptionally high mesozooplankton abundance was not observed in the confluence boundary. Nonetheless we found the highest abundance of ichthyoplankton in the confluence boundary, being up to 9-fold higher than in adjacent rivers. The confluence boundary between black and white water rivers may function as a boundary layer that offers benefits of both high zooplankton prey concentrations (black-water) and low predation risk (white-water). This forms a plausible explanation for the high abundance of ichthyoplankton in the confluence zone of black and white water rivers.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2769/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Scripps Institution of Oceanography, University of California San Diego', u'National Institute of Amazonian Research (INPA)', u'Biotechnology Laboratory, Amazonas State University (UEA)', u'Soka University of America', u'Amazon Research Center for Ornamental Fishes', u'Centro de Projetos e Estudos Ambientais do Amazonas (CEPEAM)', u'Instituto \xc1gua Floresta e Vida']]
[u'Correlated mutations distinguish misfolded and properly folded proteins', ['Pawe  Wozniak', 'Malgorzata Kotulska', 'Gert Vriend'], u'2017-01-31', u"Knowledge about the three dimensional structure of proteins is crucial in order to learn about their behavior, stability, or role as a target in drug design. Unfortunately, traditional experimental methods used in structure determination such as X-ray crystallography and NMR are costly and time-consuming. Therefore, computational methods that allow for protein structure reconstruction from sequence only are greatly desired. One of these is the recently developed direct coupling analysis (DCA) method [1, 2] which achieves the best results in residue-residue contact prediction from multiple sequence alignments only. Predicted contacts are used as restraints in the reconstruction of the three-dimensional structure of a protein. Unfortunately, the accuracy of DCA methods is on the order of 40% among the 100 strongest predicted contacts, which is insufficient for ab initio protein structure reconstruction. However, the results of DCA can support protein structure reconstruction in a different way.\nOur results show that DCA can indicate the best protein structure among its structural variants by the prediction of residue-residue contacts [3]. We counted the number of correctly predicted contacts within the strongest 100 DCA predictions for a set of obsolete PDB entries and their successors and for 22 proteins for which the Decoys 'R' Us database [4] provided properly folded and misfolded structures. These numbers were related to structure similarity scores, such as RMSD or TM-score [5]. DCA correctly predicts significantly more contacts for properly folded structures than for misfolded ones. Our method works much better for structures determined with X-ray crystallography than with the NMR spectroscopy [3]. The method will not detect misfolded proteins per se, but when a protein structure experimentalist needs to choose between alternative folds for the same protein, DCA can help.\n[1] F. Morcos et al., Direct-coupling analysis of residue coevolution captures native contacts across many protein families, 2011, Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 108(49):E1293-301.\n[2] C. Feinauer et al., Improving contact prediction along three dimensions, 2014, PLoS Comput Biol., 10(10):e1003847.\n[3] P.P. Wozniak, G. Vriend, M. Kotulska, Correlated mutations select misfolded from properly folded proteins, 2016, Bioinformatics, (article accepted).\n[4] R. Samudrala, M. Levitt, Decoys 'R' Us: A database of incorrect protein conformations to improve protein structure prediction, 2000, Protein Science 9: 1399-1401.\n[5] Y. Zhang, J. Skolnick, TM-align: A protein structure alignment algorithm based on TM-score, 2005, Nucleic Acids Research, 33: 2302-2309.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2768/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Department of Biomedical Engineering, Wroc\u0142aw University of Science and Technology', u'Centre for Molecular and Biomolecular Informatics, Radboud University Medical Center']]
[u'USMI Galaxy Demonstrator (UGD): a collection of tools to integrate microorganisms information', ['Daniele Pierpaolo Colobraro', 'Paolo Romano'], u'2017-01-31', u'Due to the fragmentation of microbial information and the several branch of human activities encompassed by microorganism applications, a comprehensive approach for merging information on microbes is needed. Although on line service providers collect several data on microorganisms and provide services for microbial Biological Resource Centres (mBRCs), such services are still limited both in contents and aims. The USMI Galaxy Demonstrator (UGD), an implementation of the Galaxy framework exploiting the XML-based Microbiological Common Language (MCL), is meant to support researchers to make an integrated access to enriched information from microbial catalogues, as well as to help mBRC curators in validating and enriching the contents of their catalogues. Researchers and mBRC curators may exploit the UGD to avoid manual, potentially long, searches on the web and to identify and select microorganisms of interest.\nUGD tools are written in Python, version 2.7. They allow to enrich the basic information provided by catalogues with related taxonomy, literature, sequence and chemical compound data retrieved from some of the main databases on the basis of the strain number, i.e. the unique identifier for a given culture, and the species names. The data is retrieved by querying database Web Services using either the Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) or the Representational State Transfer (REST) access protocols. The MCL format provides a versatile way to archive and exchange data among mBRCs.\nGalaxy is a well-known, open, web-based platform which offers many tools to retrieve, manage and analyze different kind of information arising from any life science domain. By exploiting Galaxy flexibility,UGD implements some tools and workflows that can be used to find and integrate several information on microorganisms. UGD tools integrate basic information which may support mBRC staff in the insertion of all fundamental strain information in a proper format allowing integration and interoperability with external databases. They also extend the output by adding information on source materials, including species and strain numbers, and retrieve associated microorganisms which use a compound or an enzyme in whatever metabolic pathway by returning the accession number, synonyms, links to external databases, taxon name, and strain number of the requested molecule.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2766/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Microbiology'], [u'IRCCS AOU San Martino IST']]
[u'Mass-spectrometry of single mammalian cells quantifies proteome heterogeneity during cell differentiation', ['Bogdan Budnik', 'Ezra Levy', 'Nikolai Slavov'], u'2017-01-31', u'Cellular heterogeneity is important to biological processes, including cancer and development. However, proteome heterogeneity is largely unexplored because of the limitations of existing methods for quantifying protein levels in single cells. To alleviate these limitations, we developed Single Cell ProtEomics by Mass Spectrometry (SCoPE-MS), and validated its ability to identify distinct human cancer cell types based on their proteomes. We used SCoPE-MS to quantify over a thousand proteins in differentiating mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells. The single-cell proteomes enabled us to deconstruct cell populations and infer protein abundance relationships. Comparison between single-cell proteomes and transcriptomes indicated coordinated mRNA and protein covariation. Yet many genes exhibited functionally concerted and distinct regulatory patterns at the mRNA and the protein levels, suggesting that post-transcriptional regulatory mechanisms contribute to proteome remodeling during lineage specification, especially for developmental genes. SCoPE-MS is broadly applicable to measuring proteome configurations of single cells and linking them to functional phenotypes, such as cell type and differentiation potentials.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2767/', ['Biochemistry', 'Cell Biology', 'Computational Biology', 'Developmental Biology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'MSPRL, FAS Center for Systems Biology, Harvard University', u'Department of Biology, Northeastern University', u'Department of Bioengineering, Northeastern University']]
[u'High definition video loggers provide new insights into behaviour, physiology, and the oceanic habitat of marine top predators', ['Thomas Mattern', 'Michael D McPherson', 'Ursula Ellenberg', 'Yolanda van Heezik', 'Philipp J Seddon'], u'2017-01-31', u'Camera loggers are increasingly used to examine behavioural aspects of free-ranging animals. However, often video loggers are deployed with a focus on specific behavioural traits for which it suffices to use cameras that are small but often have a limited field of view, poor light performance and video quality. Yet the rapid developments in consumer electronics provide new devices with much improved visual data which allows a wider scope for studies employing this novel methodology. We developed a camera logger that records full HD video through a wide-angle lens, providing high resolution footage with a greater field of view than other camera loggers. Main goal was the analysis of foraging behaviour of a marine top-predator, the Yellow-eyed penguin in New Zealand, with regards habitat characteristics. Yet, visual data recorded proved to contain much broader information than anticipated. Frame-by-frame analysis allowed accurate timing of prey pursuits and time spent over certain seafloor types. Similarly, it was possible to time breathing intervals between dives and quantify exhalation events during prey events, a previously undescribed behaviour. Using screen overlays we analysed flipper angles and beat frequencies throughout the various phases of a dive. The recorded video footage showed that prey species were associated with certain seafloor types, revealed different predator evasion strategies by benthic fishes, and highlighted varying energetic consequences for penguins pursuing certain types of prey. Flipper movements analysis confirmed decreasing effort during descent phases as the bird gained depth, and that ascent was principally passive. Breathing episodes between dives were short (<1 s) while the majority of the time was devoted to subsurface scanning with a submerged head. Video data recorded on free-ranging animals not only provides a wealth of information recorded from a single deployment but also necessitates new approaches with regards to analysis of visual data. In this paper, we demonstrate the diversity of information that can be gleaned from video logger data, provide various analysis approaches to visual data and highlight the importance of video quality and field of view significantly increase quality of the resulting data.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2765/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Zoology, University of Otago', u'CTNova Ltd.', u'Department of Ecology, Environment and Evolution, La Trobe University']]
[u'Nutritional values of flamboyant (Delonix regia) seeds obtained in Akure, Nigeria', ['Francis Olawale Abulude', 'Adewale Wright Adejayan'], u'2017-01-31', u'The nutritional and antinutritional compositions (phytochemical, proximate, mineral, digestibility, functional properties, phytate, tannins and oxalate.) of Delonix regia seed were determined. The results showed that the sample, has high protein content, Ca, Na, Mg, K and Fe. Biological value (BV) - 76.24, net protein utilization (NPU) - 60.99 and net protein value (NPV) - 46.50, WAC 200%, OAC 98%, FC 4.3% and LGC 7%. The sample showed the presence of some bioactive substances, the implication of this is that the extract may be suitable for treatment of several ailments in human and animals. The results also depicted the presence of antinutrients; it would be advisable to properly process the seed before consumption. The implications of the results were discussed.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2764/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Food Science and Technology'], [u'Science and Education Development Institute', u'Federal College of Agriculture']]
[u'Targeted NGS for species level phylogenomics: \u201cmade to measure\u201d or \u201cone size fits all\u201d?', ['Malvina Kadlec', 'Dirk U Bellstedt', 'Nicholas C Le Maitre', 'Michael D Pirie'], u'2017-01-31', u'Targeted high-throughput sequencing using hybrid-enrichment offers a promising source of data for inferring multiple, meaningfully resolved, independent gene trees suitable to address challenging phylogenetic problems in species complexes and rapid radiations. The targets in question can either be adopted directly from more or less universal tools, or custom made for particular clades at considerably greater effort. We applied custom made scripts to select sets of homologous sequence markers from transcriptome and WGS data for use in the flowering plant genus Erica (Ericaceae). We compared the resulting targets to those that would be selected both using different available tools (Hyb-Seq; MarkerMiner), and when optimising for broader clades of more distantly related taxa (Ericales; eudicots). Approaches comparing more divergent genomes (including MarkerMiner, irrespective of input data) delivered fewer and shorter potential markers than those targeted for Erica. The latter may nevertheless be effective for sequence capture across the wider family Ericaceae. We tested the targets delivered by our scripts by obtaining an empirical dataset. The resulting sequence variation was lower than that of standard nuclear ribosomal markers (that in Erica fail to deliver a well resolved gene tree), confirming the importance of maximising the lengths of individual markers. We conclude that rather than searching for \u201cone size fits all\u201d universal markers, we should improve and make more accessible the tools necessary for developing \u201cmade to measure\u201d ones.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2763/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Plant Science'], [u'Institut f\xfcr Organismische und Molekulare Evolutionsbiologie, Johannes-Gutenberg Universit\xe4t Mainz', u'Department of Biochemistry, University of Stellenbosch']]
[u'Angle stability and outflow in excisional ab interno trabeculectomy with active versus passive chamber management', ['Chao Wang', 'Yalong Dang', 'Susannah Waxman', 'Nils A Loewen'], u'2017-01-31', u'Purpose: To compare the intraoperative angle stability and the postoperative outflow of two ab interno trabeculectomy devices that excise the trabecular meshwork. The newer device has an active aspiration and irrigation port while the older requires viscoelastic to maintain the anterior chamber. We hypothesized that anterior segment optical coherence tomography (ASOCT) allows quantifying the intraoperative behavior in a microincisional glaucoma surgery (MIGS) pig eye training model. Methods: Twelve freshly enucleated porcine eyes were measured with ASOCT at baseline, at the beginning of the procedure and at its conclusion to determine the anterior chamber depth (ACD) and the nasal angle', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2762/', ['Biotechnology', 'Ophthalmology'], [u'Department of Ophthalmology, School of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh']]
[u'A comprehensive simulation study on classification of RNA-Seq data', ['Gokmen Zararsiz', 'Dincer Goksuluk', 'Selcuk Korkmaz', 'Vahap Eldem', 'Gozde  Erturk Zararsz', 'Izzet Parug Duru', 'Turgay Unver', 'Ahmet Ozturk'], u'2017-01-31', u'Background RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) is a powerful technique for transcriptome profiling of the organisms that uses the capabilities of next-generation sequencing (NGS) technologies. Recent advances in NGS let to measure the expression levels of tens to thousands of transcripts simultaneously. Using such information, developing expression-based classification algorithms is an emerging powerful method for diagnosis, disease classification and monitoring at molecular level, as well as providing potential markers of disease. Microarray based classifiers cannot be directly applied due to the discrete nature of RNA-Seq data. One way is to develop count-based classifiers, such as poisson linear discriminant analysis (PLDA) and negative binomial linear discriminant analysis (NBLDA). Other way is to transform the data hierarchically closer to microarrays and apply microarray-based classifiers. In most of the studies, the data overdispersion seems to be an another challenge in modeling RNA-Seq data. In this study, we aimed to examine the effect of dispersion parameter and classification algorithms on RNA-Seq classification. We also considered the effect of other parameters (i) sample size, (ii) number of genes, (iii) number of class, (iv) DE (differential expression) rate, (v) transformation method on classification performance.\nMethods We designed a comprehensive simulation study, also used two miRNA and two mRNA experimental datasets. Simulated datasets are generated from negative binomial distribution under different scenarios and real datasets are obtained from publicly available resources. We compared the results of several classifiers including PLDA with and without power transformation, NBLDA, single SVM, bagging SVM (bagSVM), classification and regression trees (CART), and random forests (RF).\nResults Results from the simulated and real datasets revealed that increasing the sample size, differential expression rate, number of genes and decreasing the dispersion parameter and number of groups lead to an increase in the classification accuracy. To make an overall assessment, power transformed PLDA, RF and SVM classifiers performed the highest classification accuracies.\nDiscussion Overdispersion seems to be an important challenge in RNA-Seq classification studies. Similar with differential expression studies, classification of RNA-Seq data requires careful attention on handling data overdispersion. We conclude that, as a count-based classifier, power transformed PLDA; as a microarray based classifier vst or rlog transformed RF and SVM (bagSVM for high sample sized data) classifiers may be a good choice for classification. However, there is still a need to develop novel classifiers or transformation approaches for classification of RNA-Seq data. An R/BIOCONDUCTOR package MLSeq with a vignette is freely available at http://www.bioconductor.org/packages/2.14/bioc/html/MLSeq.html .', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2761/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genomics', 'Statistics', 'Computational Science'], [u'Biostatistics, Erciyes University, Faculty of Medicine', u'Department of Biostatistics, Hacettepe University', u'Department of Biology, Istanbul University', u'Department of Physics, Marmara University Istanbul', u'Genomics, Izmir International Biomedicine and Genome Institute']]
