[u'Structural characterization of the jasmonoyl-isoleucine perception complexes from Fragaria vesca by in silico molecular analysis', ['Felipe Valenzuela-Riffo', 'Adrian Garrido-Bigotes', 'Pablo M Figueroa', 'Luis Morales-Quintana', 'Carlos R Figueroa'], u'2017-02-01', u'Background. The phytohormone jasmonates (JAs) regulate fundamental plant processes; such as the anthocyanin accumulation during ripening of strawberry, a non-climacteric fruit model. Jasmonoyl-isoleucine (JA-Ile), one of the bioactive JA molecules, mediates binding of the JAZ repressor protein to COI1, an F-box protein forming the SCFCOI1 ubiquitin E3 ligase complex, in Arabidopsis. The COI1-JA-Ile-JAZ complex initiates the JA-signaling pathway leading to early jasmonate responses. Most of Arabidopsis JAZs contain a degron sequence at the Jas domain responsible for interaction with COI1 and JA-Ile. The woodland strawberry (Fragaria vesca) is a model plant for the Rosaceae family, in which the JA-signaling pathway is poorly understood at the molecular level. The aim of this work was to understand the molecular basis of the interaction between the F. vesca COI1 (FvCOI1) and JAZ1 (FvJAZ1) or JAZ8 (FvJAZ8) mediated by JA-Ile.\nMethods. Multiple alignments of amino acid sequences and phylogenetic analyses were performed for FvCOI1 and FvJAZ1/8 and their ortholog sequences. The FvCOI1 and FvJAZ1/8 3D structures were built by homology modeling methods, which were further refined and validated by molecular dynamics simulation (MDS). A molecular docking approach along with MDS analysis were used to understand the interaction capacity between a putative degron-like present in FvJAZ1 and FvJAZ8 with the FvCOI1-JA-Ile and FvCOI1-JA complexes.\nResults. FvCOI1 and FvJAZ1/8 showed high and moderate identity, respectively, with the corresponding ortholog proteins from other plant species including apple, grape, tomato and Arabidopsis. The resulting FvCOI1 structural model showed that the F-box and LRR domains were highly similar to that described in Arabidopsis COI1 (AtCOI1) crystal structure. Unexpectedly, we found that FvJAZ1 has a variant IPMQRK sequence respect to the canonical LPIAR(R/K) degron sequence observed in AtJAZ1. The MDS results showed that the FvCOI1-JA-Ile-FvJAZ1 complex was the most stable among all the analyzed ones, and the IPMQRK peptide of FvJAZ1 interacted directly with FvCOI1 and JA-Ile. In contrast, FvJAZ8 did not show a direct interaction with those two components, as expected from previous experimental results for the ortholog AtJAZ8.\nDiscussion. The present research provides novel insight into the molecular interactions between key JA-signaling components in the model plant F. vesca. Remarkably, we characterized the IPMQRK sequence present in FvJAZ1, a putative variant of the canonical degron previously described in AtJAZ1. We propose that the FvCOI1-JA-Ile-FvJAZ1 complex is stable, and that the degron-like sequence present in FvJAZ1 interacts in a steady manner with FvCOI1-JA-Ile. Up to now, this is the first structural characterization of molecular interactions that may be occurring between the core components of the JA-Ile perception complex in a fleshy fruit-related species.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2772/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Institute of Biological Sciences, Universidad de Talca', u'Doctorate Program in Forest Sciences, Universidad de Concepci\xf3n', u'Phytohormone Research Laboratory, Institute of Biological Sciences, Universidad de Talca']]
[u'Standardization in next-generation sequencing - Issues and approaches of establishing standards in a highly dynamic environment', ['Christoph Endrullat'], u'2017-02-01', u"Introduction \n\n2nd generation sequencing or better known as next-generation sequencing (NGS) represents a cutting-edge technology in life sciences and current foundation for unravelling nucleotide sequences. Since advent of first platforms in 2005 the number of different types of NGS platforms increased in the last 10 years in the same manner as the variety of possible applications. Higher throughput, lower cost and better quality of data were the incentive for a range of enterprises developing new NGS devices, whereas economic issues and competitive pressure, based on expensive workflows of obsolete systems and decreasing cost of market leader platforms, resulted simultaneously in accelerated vanishing of several companies. Due to the fast development, NGS is currently characterized by a lack of standard operating procedures, quality management/quality assurance specifications, proficiency testing systems and even less approved standards along with high cost and uncertainty of data quality. On the one hand, appropriate standardization approaches were already performed by different initiatives and projects in the format of accreditation checklists, technical notes and guidelines for validation of NGS workflows. On the other hand, these approaches are exclusively located in the US due to origins of NGS overseas, therefore there exists an obvious lack of European-based standardization initiatives. An additional problem represents the validity of promising standards across different NGS applications. Due to highest demands and regulations in specific areas like clinical diagnostics, the same standards, which will be established there, will not be applicable or reasonable in other applications. These points emphasize the importance of standardization in NGS mainly addressing the laboratory workflows, which are the prerequisite and foundation for sufficient quality of downstream results.\n\nMethods \n\nThis work was based on a platform-dependent and -independent systematic literature review as well as personal communications with i.a. Illumina, Inc., ISO/TC 276 as well as DIN NA 057-06-02 AA 'Biotechnology'.\n\nResults \n\nPrior formulation of specific standard proposals and collection of current de facto standards, the problems of standardization in NGS itself were identified and interpreted. Therefore, a variety of different standardization approaches and projects from organizations, societies and companies were reviewed.\n\nConclusions \n\nThere is already a distinct number of NGS standardization efforts present; however, the majority of approaches target the standardization of the bioinformatics processing pipeline in the context of \u201cBig Data\u201d. Therefore, an essential prerequisite is the simplification and standardization of wet laboratory workflows, because respective steps are directly affecting the final data quality and thus there exists the demand to formulate experimental procedures to ensure a sufficient final data output quality.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2771/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Biotechnology', 'Genomics', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Molecular Biotechnology and Functional Genomics, Technical University of Applied Sciences']]
[u'Exploring the mitochondrial response to oxidative DNA damage in octocorals', ['Gaurav G Shimpi', 'Sergio Vargas', 'Gert Worheide'], u'2017-02-01', u'Mitochondrial response to oxidative stress is intricately related to cellular homeostasis due to the high susceptibility of the mitochondrial genome to oxidative damage. Octocoral mitogenomes possess a unique DNA repair gene, mtMutS, potentially capable of counteracting the effects of oxidative stress induced mtDNA damage. Despite this unique feature, the response of octocoral mitochondria to increased oxidative stress remains unexplored. Here we explore the response of the octocoral Sinularia cf. cruciata to elevated temperature and low-pH stress and its ability to reverse acute oxidative mtDNA damage caused by exogenous agents like hydrogen peroxide (H2O2). The differential transcriptional response to these climate change-related stresses was recorded for two mtDNA-encoded genes and three stress biomarkers. Only HSP70 was significantly upregulated during thermal stress whereas significant reduction in the expression levels of HSP70, GPX, and COI was observed along with an increased number of mtMutS transcripts during low-pH stress. Damage to mtDNA was evident, accompanied by changes in mtDNA copy number. Damage caused by H2O2 toxicity was reversed within 5 hours and initial mtDNA copy number apparently influenced damage reversal. Our results indicate that different stress-specific resilience strategies are used by this octocoral species and its mitochondria to reverse oxidative stress and associated mtDNA damage. These experiments provide the first account on the response of octocoral mitochondria with its unique gene repertoire among animals to different stressors and highlight its potential role in conferring resilience to the host cells during different climate change scenarios.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2770/', ['Marine Biology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Palaeontology & Geobiology, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xe4t M\xfcnchen', u'GeoBio-CenterLMU, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xe4t M\xfcnchen', u'SNSB \u2013Bavarian State Collections of Palaeontology and Geology']]
