[u'Largest baleen whale mass mortality during strong El Ni\xf1o event is likely related to harmful toxic algal bloom', ['Verena Haussermann', 'Carolina S Gutstein', 'Michael Beddington', 'David Cassis', 'Carlos Olavarria', 'Andrew C Dale', 'Ana M. Valenzuela-Toro', 'MariaJose Perez-Alvarez', 'Hector H. Sepulveda', 'Kaitlin M. McConnell', 'Fanny E Horwitz', 'Gunter Forsterra'], u'2017-01-06', u'While large mass mortality events (MMEs) are well known for toothed whales, they have been rare in baleen whales due to their less gregarious behaviour. Although in most cases the cause of mortality has not been conclusively identified, some baleen whale mortality events have been linked to bio-oceanographic conditions, such as harmful algal blooms (HABs).In southern Chile, HABs can be triggered by the ocean-atmosphere phenomenon El Ni\xf1o. The frequency of the strongest El Ni\xf1o events is increasing due to climate change. In March 2015, by far the largest reported mass mortality of baleen whales took place in a gulf in southern Chile. Here we show that the synchronous death of at least 343, primarily sei, whales can be attributed to HABs during a building El Ni\xf1o. Although considered an oceanic species, the sei whales died while feeding near to shore in previously unknown large aggregations. This provides evidence of new feeding grounds for the species. The combination of older and newer remains of whales in the same area indicate that MMEs have occurred more than once in recent years.Large HABs and reports of marine mammal MMEs along the north-east Pacific coast may indicate similar processes in both hemispheres. Increasing MMEs through HABs may become a serious concern in the conservation of endangered whale species.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2707/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Marine Biology', 'Paleontology', 'Zoology'], [u'Facultad de Ciencias Naturales, Escuela de Ciencias del Mar, Pontificia Universidad Cat\xf3lica de Valpara\xedso', u'GeoBio-Center', u'Huinay Scientific Field Station', u'Area de Patrimonio Natural, Consejo de Monumentos Nacionales', u'Red Paleontol\xf3gica U-Chile, Laboratorio de Ontogenia y Filogenia, Departamento de Biolog\xeda, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de Chile', u'Department of Paleobiology, National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution', u'Scottish Association for Marine Science', u'Centro de Investigaci\xf3n e Innovaci\xf3n para el Cambio Clim\xe1tico, Universidad Santo T\xf3mas', u'Centro de Investigaci\xf3n Eutropia', u'Centro de Estudios Avanzados en Zonas Aridas (CEAZA)', u'Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of California, Santa Cruz', u'Instituto de Ecolog\xeda y Biodiversidad (IEB), Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de Chile', u'Departamento de Geof\xedsica, Universidad de Concepci\xf3n', u'Facultad de Ciencias Naturales y Oceanogr\xe1ficas, Universidad de Concepci\xf3n', u'Department of Zoology, Ludwig-Maximilians-University']]
[u'Porpitids (Cnidaria: Hydrozoa) from the early Cambrian (Series 2: Stage 4) of Nevada, U.S.A.', ['Bruce S Lieberman', 'Richard Kurkewicz', 'Heather Shinogle'], u'2017-01-06', u'The morphology and affinities of newly discovered soft-bodied fossils from the early Cambrian (Series 2: Stage 4, Dyeran) Carrara Formation that resemble modern and fossil porpitids are discussed. These specimens show substantial similarity to the Ordovician porpitid Discophyllum peltatum Hall, 1847. The status of various Proterozoic and Phanerozoic taxa previously referred to porpitids is also briefly considered. To verify that the specimens were not dubio- or pseudofossils, elemental mapping using energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) was conducted. This indicated that the fossils were not hematite, iron sulfide, pyrolusite, or other abiologic mineral precipitates. Instead, their status as biologic structures and thus actual fossils is supported. Enrichment in the element carbon, and also possibly to some extent the elements magnesium and iron, seems to be playing some role in the preservation process.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2706/', ['Paleontology', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, University of Kansas', u'Biodiversity Institute, University of Kansas', u'Pangaea Fossils', u'Microscopy and Analytical Imaging Laboratory, University of Kansas']]
[u'gb4gv: A genome browser for geminivirus', ['Eric S Ho', 'Catherine M Newsom-Stewart', 'Lysa Diarra', 'Caroline S McCauley'], u'2017-01-06', u'Background: Geminivirus (family Geminiviridae) is a prevalent plant virus that imperils agriculture globally, causing serious damage to the livelihood of farmers, particularly in developing countries. The virus evolves rapidly, attributing to its single-stranded genome propensity, resulting in worldwide circulation of diverse and viable genomes. Genomics is a prominent approach taken by researchers in elucidating the infectious mechanism of the virus. Currently, NCBI Viral Genome website is a popular repository of viral genomes that conveniently provides researchers a centralized data source of genomic information. However, unlike the genome of living organisms, viral genomes most often maintain peculiar characteristics that fit into no single genome architecture. By imposing a unified annotation scheme on the myriad of viral genomes may downplay their hallmark features. For example, virion of Begomovirus prevailing in America encapsulates two similar-sized circular genomes and both are required to maintain virulence. But, the two bipartite genomes are kept separately in NCBI with no explicit association in linking them. Thus, our goal is to build a comprehensive Geminivirus genomics database, namely gb4gv, that not only preserves genomic characteristics of the virus, but also supplements biologically relevant annotations that help to interrogate this virus e.g. the targeted host, putative iterons, siRNA targets etc. Methods: We have employed manual and automatic methods to curate 508 genomes from four major genera of Geminiviruses, and 161 associated satellites obtained from NCBI RefSeq and PubMed databases. Results: These data are available for free access without registration from our website. Besides genomic content, our website provides visualization capability inherited from UCSC Genome Browser. Discussion: With the genomic information readily accessible, we hope that our database will inspire researchers in gaining better understanding about this virus, resulting in insightful strategies to conquer the devastation inflicted agriculture. Availability and Implementation: Database URL: http://gb4gv.lafayette.edu .', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2705/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Bioinformatics', 'Genomics', 'Virology'], [u'Department of Biology, Department of Computer Science, Lafayette College', u'Department of Biology, Lafayette College']]
[u'Functional and spinal neuropeptidomic alterations in a new rat surgical model of osteoarthritic pain: A pilot study', ['Julie-Anne Gervais', 'Colombe Otis', 'Bertrand Lussier', 'Martin Guillot', 'Francis Beaudry', 'Eric Troncy'], u'2017-01-06', u'Background. Osteoarthritis is the leading cause of chronic joint pain, causing important productivity and economic losses. It is believed that peripheral and centralized sensitization play a role in the creation and maintenance of a chronic painful state. Different animal models have been employed for the investigation of pain mechanisms and evaluation of potential treatments, but none of them are ideal in terms of reproducibly, reliability and translational value. Methods. In the search for better animal model, this pilot study was performed with the goal of evaluating pain functional outcomes and spinal biomarkers between three surgical rat models of osteoarthritic pain, i.e. destabilization of the medial meniscus, cranial cruciate ligament transection and the combination of both, and comparing those results to the intra-articular injection of monosodium iodoacetate. Six rats were assigned to each model group and a Sham group. Static weight bearing, punctate tactile paw withdrawal threshold, and spinal neuropeptides (substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide, bradykinin, and somatostatin) were evaluated for each group. Results. Both the monosodium iodoacetate and combination models induced functional alterations in static weight bearing and punctate tactile paw withdrawal threshold, the changes being more persistent in the combination group. Both also produced an increased release of pro-nociceptive and anti-nociceptive neuropeptides at different time-points. When surgical models were compared, the cranial cruciate ligament transection and destabilization of the medial meniscus models were less interesting, with temporary functional alterations, and no significant change in neuropeptides. Discussion. The surgical induction of osteoarthritis was accompanied by quantifiable neurophysiologic changes relating to non-physiologic pain. Comparison with the monosodium iodoacetate model showed that the interest of a surgical model, especially the combination of destabilization of the medial meniscus and cranial cruciate ligament transection, might reside in more persistent and progressive changes, a model that may represent better the human post-traumatic osteoarthritis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2704/', ['Anaesthesiology and Pain Management', 'Pharmacology', 'Rheumatology', 'Translational Medicine'], [u'Animal Pharmacology Research Group in Quebec (GREPAQ), Universit\xe9 de Montr\xe9al', u'Clinical Sciences / Faculty of veterinary medicine, Universit\xe9 de Montr\xe9al']]
