[u'Assessment of accuracy for target detection in 3D-space using eye tracking and computer vision', ['Martin Leroux', 'Sofiane Achiche', 'Maxime Raison'], u'2017-01-13', u'Over the last decade, eye tracking systems have been developed and used in many fields, mostly to identify targets on a screen, i.e. a plane. For novel applications such as the control of robotic devices by the user vision, there is a great interest in developing methods base on eye tracking to identify target points in free three dimensional environments. The objective of this paper is to characterise the accuracy the eye tracking and computer vision combination that was designed recently to overcome many limitations of eye tracking in 3D space. We propose a characterization protocol to assess the behavior of the accuracy of the system over the workspace of a robotic manipulator assistant. Applying this protocol to 33 subjects, we estimated the behavior of the error of the system relatively to the target position on a cylindrical workspace and to the acquisition time. Over our workspace, targets are located on average at 0.84 m and our method shows an accuracy 12.65 times better than the calculation of the 3D point of gaze. With the current accuracy, many potential applications become possible, such as visually controlled robotic assistants in the field of rehabilitation and adaptation engineering.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2718/', ['Human-Computer Interaction', 'Real-Time and Embedded Systems'], [u'CHU Sainte-Justine, Rehabilitation Chair of Engineering Applied to Pediatrics', u'Mechanical engineering, Polytechnique Montr\xe9al']]
[u'Remote sensing and geographical information analytical techniques for modelling Ommatissus lybicus (Hemiptera: Tropiduchidae) habitat and population densities', ['Khalifa M Al-Kindi', 'Paul Kwan', 'Nigel Andrew', 'Mitchell Welch'], u'2017-01-13', u'In order to understand the distribution and prevalence of Ommatissus lybicus (Homoptera: Tropiduchidae) as well as analyse their current biographical patterns and predict their future spread, comprehensive and highly sophisticated information on the environmental, climatic, and agricultural practices are essential. The analytical techniques available in modern spatial analysis packages, such as Remote Sensing and Geographical Information Systems, can help detect and model spatial links and correlations between the presence, absence and density of O. lybicus in response to climatic, environmental and human factors. The main objective of this paper is to review remote sensing and geographical information analytical techniques that can be applied in mapping and modelling the habitat and population density of O. lybicus in Oman. An exhaustive search of related literature revealed that there are few studies linking location-based infestation levels of pests like the O. lybicus with climatic, environmental and human practice related variables in the Middle East. Our review also highlights the accumulated knowledge and addresses the gaps in this area of research. Furthermore, it makes recommendations for future studies, and gives suggestions on monitoring and surveillance sites that are necessary in designing both local and regional level integrated pest management (IPM) policing of palm tree and other affected cultivated crops.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2716/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Entomology', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'School of Science and Technology, University of New England', u'Centre for Behavioural and Physiological Ecology, University of New England']]
[u'Splice variants\u2019 role in mediating different disease states in tissue requiring ion transduction through calcium channel for function', ['Wenfa Ng'], u'2017-01-13', u'Structure informs function, and this may be the evolutionary reason why alternative splicing, which is capable of generating different variants of the same protein, arise. But, given the energetic cost of generating different splice variants for testing their capability at a specific task, which incurs cellular functional uncertainty; as well as the exertion of differing physiological effects on cells that may translate into diseased states, what is the evolutionary advantage of this process? Additionally, what are the factors that select a specific variant for a presented task? Using heart tissue samples exposed to hypoxia stress as model system, this research idea entails the illumination of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) of the calcium channel transporter, Cav 1.2 gene in the population through gene sequencing followed by bioinformatic analysis for alternative splice sites. This would be followed by a scan for alternative splice variants through colony polymerase chain reaction using universal primers for Cav 1.2 gene. Confirmation of splice variant identity through Western blot laid the stage for subsequent efforts at cloning and expressing the variant gene in HEK 293 cells lacking endogenous expression of Cav 1.2, for biophysical characterization of calcium conduction through patch clamp electrophysiology. In parallel, structural elucidation efforts necessitate the purification of the calcium channel via hydrophobic interaction or reversed phase liquid chromatography after its heterologous expression in a bacterial host. But, biophysical and biochemical characterization does not speak of the signaling and metabolic pathways laying the path to generation of the splice variant(s). Hence, discovery approaches such as RNA-seq and mass spectrometry proteomics could uncover the molecular mysteries at the transcript and protein level that help guide the selection of specific splice variant in response to hypoxic stress, where HIF is a candidate pathway. Implementing this approach from the retrospective angle of examining diseased human tissue samples provide one important facet for uncovering possible mechanisms driving the generation of a splice variant. However, the complementary prospective approach of identifying the molecular basis and processes for responding to hypoxia in a cell line such as HEK 293 would help provide confirmatory evidence in understanding the key drivers of physiological response to lack of oxygen at the cellular level. Collectively, this research route would illuminate both the nucleotide informational basis of alternative splicing in calcium channel Cav 1.2 as well as identify the molecular mechanisms enabling the selection of specific splice variants useful for conferring, at the cell and tissue level, ability to withstand hypoxic stress without significant negative effects on cell function. Interested readers can expand on the ideas presented.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2717/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioinformatics', 'Genomics', 'Molecular Biology', 'Anatomy and Physiology'], [u'Novena']]
