[u'Concrete vs abstract words \u2013 what do you recall better? A study on dual coding theory', ['Lin Yui', 'Roslin Ng', 'Hiran Perera-W.A.'], u'2017-01-13', u'This study was conducted to investigate the theory of dual coding on remembering words, by testing whether concrete words are better recalled than abstract words. A total of 298 (from Asian ethnicity) participants took part in this study. The participants were divided into two groups, where each group was given a list of abstract or concrete words. Then, they were asked to write down as many words as they recall within two minute. The results demonstrated that the participants recalled concrete words better than the abstract words, supporting previous studies.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2719/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Statistics'], [u'HELP College of Arts and Technology', u'Durham University']]
[u'Development rate rather than social environment influences cognitive performance in Australian black field crickets, Teleogryllus commodus', ['Caitlin Anderson', 'Michael M Kasumovic'], u'2017-01-14', u'Cognitive functioning is vital for enabling animals of all taxa to optimise their chances of survival and reproductive success. Learning and memory in particular are drivers of many evolutionary processes. The field of cognitive ecology explores how the environment can affect investment into cognitive capacity and learning ability. In this study, we examine how developmental plasticity can affect cognitive ability by exploring the role of early social environment on influencing problem solving ability and learning of female black field crickets, Teleogryllus commodus. We used two learning paradigms, an analog of the Morris water maze and a novel linear maze, to examine cognitive differences between individuals reared in two acoustic treatments: silence or calling. Although there was no evidence of learning or memory, individuals that took longer to mature solved the Morris water maze more quickly. This suggests that increased investment into cognitive development is likely associated with increased development time during immature stages. Inconsistent individual performance and motivation during the novel linear maze task highlights the difficulties of designing ecologically relevant learning tasks within a lab setting. The role of experimental design in understanding cognitive ability and learning in more natural circumstances is discussed.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2728/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Zoology'], [u'Ecology and Evolution Research Centre, UNSW Australia']]
[u'A residence-time framework for biodiversity', ['Kenneth J Locey', 'Jay T Lennon'], u'2017-01-13', u'Residence time (\u03c4) is the average amount of time that particles spend in an ecosystem. Often estimated from the ratio of volume to flow rate, \u03c4 equates the physical environment with dynamics of growth. Here, we propose that \u03c4 is key to understanding relationships between biodiversity and the physical ecosystem. We hypothesize that \u03c4 acts as a force of selection on traits related to growth and persistence by coupling dispersal and resource supply. We test a suite of predictions using >10,000 stochastic individual-based models that simulate resource-limited life history among ecologically distinct species within complex environments. Predicted relationships between \u03c4 and abundance, productivity, and diversity emerged alongside realistic macroecological patterns. Abundance and productivity were greatest when \u03c4 equaled an emergent property \u03d5, which captures energy-based trade-offs between growth and persistence. From individual metabolism to the dynamics of bioreactors, soils, lakes, and oceans, ecological systems should inherently be governed by \u03c4.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2727/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Microbiology'], [u'Biology, Indiana University']]
[u'Influence of season and feeding intensity on the fatty acid composition of wild cobia (Rachycentron canadum, Linnaeus, 1766) in the Dungun coast, Malaysia', ['Taofik Ademola Babatunde', 'S. M. Nurul Amin', 'Fatimah Md Yusoff', 'Aziz Arshad', 'Yuzine B Esa', 'Mahdi M Ebrahimi'], u'2017-01-13', u'Cobia, Rachycentron canadum, is an important recreational marine fish of growing popularity in the aquaculture industry. Knowledge of the impact of environment on their fatty acids (FAs) utilization may contribute to the understanding their feeding in culture condition especially as cobia is been considered for low salinity culture. This study investigates the variations in the fatty acid contents of cobia from Dungun coast, Malaysia with respect to the changes in seasons and feeding intensity. Saturated fatty acids (FAs) comprised the majority of FAs in muscle, followed by monoenes, total poly-unsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) (n-3) and then total PUFAs (n-6) with no seasonal variation in the quantity. A similar trend was observed in liver but total saturated FAs was significantly higher during the inter-monsoon while total monoenes significantly accumulate during monsoon. During low feeding intensity, there was a significant accumulation of PUFAs (n-6) in the muscle tissue (P < 0.05). Gut content analyses showed that cobia significantly increased the consumption of mollusks during the inter-monsoon (P < 0.05), although bony fishes dominated their diet throughout the year with no significant seasonal differences (P > 0.05). Our results suggest that cobia lipids are composed of a significant quantity of omega-3 and omega-6 FAs, which are considered to have important health benefits. While the environmental variability especially salinity fluctuations and prey abundance that accompany seasonal changes have a significant impact on the nutritional composition of cobia in Malaysian waters, their nutritional quality is maintained.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2726/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Biology, Umaru Musa Yaradua University', u'Department of Aquaculture, Faculty of Agriculture, Universiti Putra Malaysia', u'Department of Veterinary Preclinical Sciences, Universiti Putra Malaysia']]
[u'Safe and sensible baseline correction of pupil-size data', ['Sebastiaan Mathot', 'Jasper Fabius', 'Elle van Heusden', 'Stefan Van der Stigchel'], u'2017-01-13', u'Measurement of pupil size (pupillometry) has recently gained renewed interest from psychologists, but there is little agreement on how pupil-size data is best analyzed. Here we focus on one aspect of pupillometric analyses: baseline correction, that is, analyzing changes in pupil size relative to a baseline period. Baseline correction is useful in experiments that investigate the effect of some experimental manipulation on pupil size. In such experiments, baseline correction improves statistical power by taking into account random fluctuations in pupil size over time. However, we show that baseline correction can also distort data if unrealistically small pupil sizes are recorded during the baseline period, which can easily occur due to eye blinks, data loss, or other distortions. Divisive baseline correction (corrected pupil size = pupil size / baseline) is affected more strongly by such distortions than subtractive baseline correction (corrected pupil size = pupil size - baseline). We make four recommendations for safe and sensible baseline correction of pupil-size data: 1) use subtractive baseline correction; 2) visually compare your corrected and uncorrected data; 3) be wary of pupil-size effects that emerge faster than the latency of the pupillary response allows (within \xb1220 ms after the manipulation that induces the effect); and 4) remove trials on which baseline pupil size is unrealistically small (indicative of blinks and other distortions).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2725/', ['Neuroscience', 'Ophthalmology', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Statistics'], [u'Laboratoire de Psychologie Cognitive, CNRS', u'Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Groningen', u'Department of Experimental Psychology, Utrecht University']]
[u'Lifting the curse of stringly-typed code', ['Eddie A Santos', 'Karim Ali'], u'2017-01-13', u'How often do JavaScript programmers embed structured languages into strings literals? We conduct an empirical investigating mining nearly 500 thousand JavaScript source files from almost ten thousand repositories from GitHub. We parsed each string literal with seven separate common grammars, and found the most common data type that is hidden within the confines of string literals. To reduce the overuse of strings for structured data types, we present a simple static program analyzer that finds embedded languages and warns the developer, providing an optional fix.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2723/', ['Programming Languages', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Department of Computing Science, University of Alberta']]
[u'Long-term resource addition to a detrital food web yields a pattern of responses more complex than pervasive bottom-up control', ['Kendra L. Lawrence', 'David H Wise'], u'2017-01-13', u'Background. Theory predicts strong bottom-up control in detritus-based food webs, yet field experiments with detritus-based terrestrial systems have uncovered contradictory evidence regarding the strength and pervasiveness of bottom-up control processes. Two factors likely leading to contradictory results are experiment duration, which influences exposure to temporal variation in abiotic factors such as rainfall and affects the likelihood of detecting approach to a new equilibrium; and openness of the experimental units to immigration and migration. To investigate the contribution of these two factors, we conducted a long-term experiment with open and fenced plots in the forest that was the site of an earlier, short-term experiment (3.5 months) with open plots (Chen & Wise 1999) that produced evidence of strong bottom-up control for 14 taxonomic groupings of primary consumers of litter and fungi (microbi-detritivores) and their predators. Methods. We added artificial high-quality detritus to ten 2 x 2-m forest-floor plots at bi-weekly intervals from April through September in three consecutive years (Supplemented treatment). Ten comparable Ambient plots were controls. Half of the Supplemented and Ambient plots were enclosed by metal fencing. Results. Arthropod community structure (based upon 18 response variables) diverged over time between Supplemented and Ambient treatments, with no effect of Fencing on the multivariate response pattern. Fencing possibly influenced only ca. 20% of the subsequent univariate analyses. Multi- and univariate analyses revealed bottom-up control by fall of Year 1 of some, but not all, microbi-detritivores and predators. During the following two years the pattern of responses became more complex than that observed by Chen & Wise (1999). Some taxa showed consistent bottom-up control whereas many did not. Variation across years could not be explained completely by differences in rainfall because some taxa exhibited negative, not positive, responses to detrital supplementation. Discussion. Our 3-yr experiment did not confirm the conclusion of strong, pervasive bottom-up control of microbi-detritivores and predators reported by Chen and Wise (1999). Our longer-term experiment revealed a more complex pattern of responses, a pattern much closer to the range of outcomes reported in the literature for many short-term experiments. Much of the variation in responses across studies likely reflects variation in factors such as rainfall and the quality of added detritus. Nevertheless, it is also possible that long-term resource enhancement can drive a community towards a new equilibrium state that differs from what would have been predicted from the initial short-term responses exhibited by primary and secondary consumers.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2722/', ['Ecology', 'Soil Science', 'Zoology'], [u'KL2 Consulting, LLC', u'Department of Biological Sciences, and Institute for Environmental Science and Policy, University of Illinois at Chicago']]
[u'Pharmacophore modeling, virtual computational screening and biological evaluation studies', ['Serena Dotolo', 'Angelo Facchiano'], u'2017-01-13', u'Drug discovery process plays an important role in identifying new investigational drug-likes and developing new potential inhibitors related to a determinate target, in biopharmaceutical field [1]. An alternative promising and efficient used to identify new active substances is Pharmacophore modeling method.We defined a new computational strategy protocol characterized by the use of bioinformatics online tools and by the application of locally installed tools, for lead candidates generation-optimization able to reduce the cycle time and cost of this process and to promote the next steps of study [2].Hence, we have tried to apply this new computational procedure, in a more detailed screening, of small bioactive molecules, searching and identifying new candidates as \u201clead compounds\u201d, potentially able to inhibit biological target AKT1 human protein and its related molecular mechanisms [3].The workflow executed in our work has been characterized by a multi-step design, which concerns different topics: search in PDB database of a model structure for AKT1, pharmacophore modeling and virtual computational screening, biological evaluation divided in two parts (molecular validation of selected compounds and study of physical-chemical properties related to pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamics prediction models). All these step have been performed through PHARMIT (http://pharmit.csb.pitt.edu) and Discovery Studio 4.5 platform.We selected the PDB structure 3O96 as the reference complex (protein-ligand), and we analyzed it by means of PHARMIT and Discovery Studio, to generate four different \u201cpharmacophore models\u201d with four different list of natural compounds.It is performed a thorough screening of compounds applying several filters, to find some good candidates as possible natural AKT1 allosteric inhibitors.The compounds that match a well-defined pharmacophore have been analyzed through direct molecular docking, for selecting only the best candidates and studying the protein-ligand interactions. Selected compounds have been investigated in more details, to trace their origin, by their chemical-physical properties.This information can help us to predict some plausible enzyme-catalyzed reaction pathways, through PathPred web-server and KEGG compound database, in order to highlight the most important reactions for biosynthesis of compounds and obtain PharmacoKinetics/PharmacoDynamics (PK/PD) models, to investigate the ADMET properties of these lead compounds and to study their behavior in some biological systems, for the next experimental assays.This new computational strategy has been very efficient in showing what could be good \u201clead compounds\u201d and potential natural inhibitors of AKT1 and PI3K/AKT1 signaling cascade. Therefore, the next steps could be the experimental analysis of pharmacokinetics-pharmacodynamics and toxicity properties \u201cin vitro/in vivo\u201d, in order to evaluate the results obtained \u201cin silico\u201d.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2721/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Institute of Food Science, National Research Council', u'Department of Biochemistry, Biophysics and General Pathology, Second University of Naples']]
[u'Floral pathway integrator gene expression mediates gradual transmission of environmental and endogenous cues to flowering time', ['Aalt D.J. van Dijk', 'Jaap Molenaar'], u'2017-01-13', u'The appropriate timing of flowering is crucial for the reproductive success of plants. Hence, intricate genetic networks integrate various environmental and endogenous cues such as temperature or hormonal statues. These signals integrate into a network of floral pathway integrator genes. At a quantitative level, it is currently unclear how the impact of genetic variation in signaling pathways on flowering time is mediated by floral pathway integrator genes. Here, using datasets available from literature, we connect Arabidopsis thaliana flowering time in genetic backgrounds varying in upstream signalling components with the expression levels of floral pathway integrator genes in these genetic backgrounds. Our modelling results indicate that flowering time depends in a quite linear way on expression levels of floral pathway integrator genes. This gradual, proportional response of flowering time to upstream changes enables a gradual adaptation to changing environmental factors such as temperature and light.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2724/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Developmental Biology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Biometris, Department for Mathematical and Statistical Methods, Wageningen University', u'Laboratory of Bioinformatics, Wageningen University', u'Bioscience, Wageningen University and Research']]
[u'The use of computational modeling to link sensory processing with behavior in Drosophila', ['Jan Clemens', 'Mala Murthy'], u'2017-01-13', u'A major goal of systems neuroscience is to understand how the brain represents information, and how those representations are used to drive behavior. Even though genetic model organisms like Drosophila grant unprecedented experimental access to the nervous system for manipulating and recording neural activity, the complexity of natural stimuli and natural behaviors still poses a challenge for solving the connections between neural activity and behavior. Here, we advocate for the use of computational modeling to complement (and enhance) the Drosophila toolkit. We first lay out a modelling framework for making sense of the relation between natural sensory stimuli, neuronal responses, and natural behavior. We then highlight how this framework can be used to reveal how neural circuits drive behavior, using selected case studies.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2720/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Computational Biology', 'Neuroscience'], [u'Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University']]
