[u'Understanding of the activity of a protein involved in DNA repair by biochemical, structural and in silico approaches', ['Castrese Morrone', 'Riccardo Miggiano', 'Mario Serpe', 'Alberto Massarotti', 'Anna Valenti', 'Giovanni Del Monaco', 'Mose Rossi', 'Franca Rossi', 'Menico Rizzi', 'Maria Ciaramella', 'Giuseppe Perugino'], u'2017-01-03', u'The repair of DNA from alkylation damage is generally performed by evolutionary conserved protein complexes. However, specific repair of O6-alkylated-guanines is a task of a small class of proteins called AGTs (alkylated DNA-protein alkyl-transferases): by using a single-step reaction mechanism, the alkylic group is irreversibly transferred to a catalytic cysteine in the active site, inducing the in vitro and in vivo inactivation and destabilization of the protein. Although some conformational changes after the alkylation are supposed, a complete picture of structural rearrangements occurring during the reaction cycle is missing. The complete knowledge of these structural movements is a great challenge and a fundamental task for the development of new inhibitors of the human AGT, whose overexpression leads to a resistance in several types of tumor cells to the chemoterapic alkylating agents-based treatment. We used the Sulfolobus solfataricus thermostable ortholog (SsOGT) as a model for AGTs [1], by performing biochemical, structural, molecular dynamics and in silico analysis of ligand-free, DNA-bound and alkylated version of the protein. With this protein, we were able to highlight conformational changes and perturbations of intramolecular interaction occurring during lesion recognition and catalysis, confirming our previous hypothesis that coordination between the N- and C-terminal domains of SsOGT is important for protein activity and stability [2]. All the data allowed us to propose a general model of structural rearrangements occurring during the reaction cycle of AGTs [3], and proposing it as a starting point to design strategies to modulate AGT activity in therapeutic settings.\n[1] G. Perugino, A. Vettone, G. Illiano, A. Valenti, M.C. Ferrara, M. Rossi, M. Ciaramella (2012) Activity and regulation of archaeal DNA alkyltransferase: conserved protein involved in repair of DNA alkylation damage. J. Biol. Chem., 287, 4222-4231.\n[2] G.Perugino, R.Miggiano, M.Serpe, A.Vettone, A.Valenti, S.Lahiri, F.Rossi, M.Rossi, M. Rizzi, M. Ciaramella (2015) Structure-function relationships governing activity and stability of a DNA alkylation damage repair thermostable protein. Nucleic Acids Res., 43, 8801-8816.\n[3] C. Morrone, R. Miggiano, M. Serpe, A. Massarotti, A. Valenti, G. del Monaco, M. Rossi, F. Rossi, M. Rizzi, G. Perugino, M. Ciaramella (2017) Interdomain interactions rearrangements control the reaction steps of a thermostable DNA alkyltransferase. BBA-Gen. Sub., 1861, 2, 86-96.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2683/', ['Biochemistry', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'National Research Council of Italy, Istituto di Bioscienze e BioRisorse', u'Dipartimento di Scienze del Farmaco, Universit\xe0 del Piemonte Orientale']]
[u'An investigation of visual cryptography and its applications in secure communications', ['Elham Shahab', 'Hadi Abdolrahimpour'], u'2017-01-03', u'Secret sharing approach and in particular Visual Cryptography (VC) try to address the security issues in dealing with images. In fact, VC is a powerful technique that combines the notions of perfect ciphers and secret sharing in cryptography. VC takes an image (secret) as an input and encrypts (divide) into two or more pieces (shares) that each of them can not reveal any information about the main input. The decryption way in this scenario is done through superimposing shares on top of each other to receive the input image. No computer participation is required, thus showing one of the distinguishing features of VC. It is claimed that VC is a unique technique in the sense that the encrypted message can be decrypted directly by the human visual system.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2682/', ['Computer Vision', 'Cryptography', 'Data Science', 'Graphics', 'Security and Privacy'], [u'Computer Science, Islamic Azad University', u'Bio-Mechanic, Islamic Azad University, Yazd']]
[u'Impact of birth weight and postnatal diet on the gut microbiota of young adult guinea pigs', ['Kait Al', 'Ousseynou Sarr', 'Kristyn Dunlop', 'Gregory B Gloor', 'Gregor Reid', 'Jeremy Burton', 'Timothy RH Regnault'], u'2017-01-02', u'Background: The gastrointestinal tract (GIT) microbiota is essential to metabolic health, and the prevalence of the Western diet (WD) high in fat and sugar is increasing, with evidence highlighting a negative interaction between the GIT and WD resulting in liver dysfunction. Additionally, an adverse in utero environment such as placental insufficiency resulting in low birth weight (LBW) offspring, contributes to an increased risk of metabolic diseases such as fatty liver infiltration and liver dysfunction in later life. We sought to understand the potential interactive effects of exposure to a WD upon growing LBW offspring. We postulated that LBW offspring when challenged with a poor postnatal diet, would display an altered microbiota and more severe liver metabolic dysfunction.\nMethods: The fecal microbiota of normal birth weight (NBW) and LBW young guinea pig offspring, weaned onto either a control diet (CD) or WD was determined with 16S rRNA gene next generation sequencing and liver blood chemistry at young adulthood following the early rapid growth phase after weaning. A liver blood chemistry profile was also performed.\nResults: The life-long consumption of WD following weaning into young adulthood resulted in increased total cholesterol, triglycerides and alanine aminotransferase levels in association with an altered GIT microbiota when compared to offspring consuming CD. Neither birth weight nor sex were associated with any significant changes in microbiota alpha diversity, by measuring the Shannon\u2019s diversity index. One hundred forty-eight operational taxonomic units were statistically distinct between the diet groups, independent of birth weight. In the WD group, significant decreases were detected in Barnesiella, Methanobrevibacter smithii and relatives of Oscillospira guillermondii, while Butyricimonas and Bacteroides spp. were increased.\nDiscussion: These results describe the GIT microbiota in a guinea pig model of LBW and WD associated metabolic syndrome and highlight several WD specific GIT alterations associated with human metabolic disease.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2681/', ['Microbiology', 'Veterinary Medicine', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Western Ontario', u'Canadian Centre for Human Microbiome and Probiotic Research', u'Lawson Health Research Institute', u'Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, University of Western Ontario', u'Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Western Ontario', u"Children's Health Research Institute", u'Department of Biochemistry, University of Western Ontario', u'Department of Surgery, Division of Urology, University of Western Ontario']]
[u'Discrimination of Picea chihuahuana Martinez populations on the basis of numerous dendrometric, climatic and edaphic traits and genetic diversity', ['Iliana Karina Dominguez-Guerrero', 'Samantha Mariscal-Lucero', 'Jose Ciro Hernandez-Diaz', 'Berthold Heinze', 'Jose Angel Prieto-Ruiz', 'Christian Wehenkel'], u'2017-01-02', u"Background. Picea chihuahuana, which is endemic to Mexico, is currently listed as \u201cEndangered\u201d on the Red List. Chihuahua spruce is only found in the Sierra Madre Occidental (SMO), Mexico. About 42,600 individuals are distributed in forty populations. The populations are fragmented and can be classified into three distinct clusters in the SMO of the two States (south, center and north), each group separated by a distance of about 300 km. The total area covered P. chihuahuana trees is less than 300 ha. A recent study suggested assisted migration as an alternative to the ex situ conservation of P. chihuahuana, taking into consideration the genetic structure and diversity of the populations and also predictions regarding the future climate of the habitat. However, detailed background information is required to enable development of plans for protecting and conserving species and for successful assisted migration. Thus, it is important to identify differences between populations in relation to environmental conditions. The vitality and genetic diversity of populations, which affect vigour, evolution and adaptability of the species, must also be considered. In this study, we examined the P. chihuahuana tree community growing in fourteen different locations, with the overall aim of discriminating the populations and clusters of this species using 22 climatic, 27 edaphic and 15 dasometric variables and three genetic diversity indices. Methods. Each location was represented by one 50 x 50 m plot established in the center of the location in which was measured the climate, soil, dasometric and genetic variables. The putative neutral and adaptive AFLP were used to calculate genetic diversity. Multivariate discriminant analysis including cross-validation was considered to test for significant differences in variables in the southern, central and northern populations and locations of the P. chihuahuana tree community. Spearman's correlation test was used to analyze the relationships between genetic diversity, population size, and the climatic, soil and dasometric variables. Results. The discriminant analysis revealed 22 highly significant variables, which separated the southern, central and northern populations. The mean genetic diversity of P. chihuahuana was significantly correlated with the mean temperature in the warmest month. Genetic diversity of P. chihuahuana calculated with putative adaptive AFLP was not statistically significantly correlated with any environmental factor. Finally, no significant correlations were observed between any of the three genetic diversity indices and population size. Discussion. At least three different ecotypes of P. chihuahuana probably exist, as local adaptation may take place because of the different environmental conditions. Therefore, future reforestation programs should take into account these different ecotypes and environmental conditions.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2677/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Genetics', 'Plant Science'], [u'Universidad Ju\xe1rez del Estado de Durango', u'Forestry and Wood Industry Institute, Universidad Ju\xe1rez del Estado de Durango', u'Federal Research Centre for Forests, Natural Hazards and Landscape (BFW)', u'Faculty of Forestry Sciences, Universidad Ju\xe1rez del Estado de Durango']]
[u'Benthic boom: Understanding larval insect colonization in Moorea, French Polynesia', ['Nicholas A LaPaglia'], u'2017-01-02', u'Insects are important in assessing ecosystem quality and health. Current climate change models predict that in the next one hundred years, intense storms separated by long periods of drought will frequent French Polynesia. Variation in water availability may be difficult for many stream insects to cope with. Studying insect response after a disturbance as well as assessing their current distribution and abundance can help us understand greater ecological interactions and allow us to make predictions about future assemblages. The recolonization rate and habitat preference of Simuliidae and Chironomidae larvae were measured in a high elevation stream on Moorea, French Polynesia. Insect recolonization was measured 1, 3, and 6 days after an artificial disturbance event, and habitat preference was determined through the use of 3 introduced substrates: streamside moss, synthetic moss, and an empty control. Habitat preference was also evaluated through the comparison of larval densities across both experiments. Ultimately both Simuliidae and Chironomidae larvae were shown to return to baseline abundance 3 days after a disturbance event. Furthermore, chironomids preferred the synthetic moss substrate to all other habitats, while simuliids preferred the empty control compared to the moss treatment. This likely indicates that the chironomids live within the submerged moss while simuliids live on a rocky substrate. It also suggests that both species can live in a variety of environments and can adapt well to changing conditions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2678/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology', 'Entomology', 'Zoology'], [u'Integrative Biology, University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'Choosing favorites: the host preference of a vascular epiphyte (Didymoglassum tahitense)', ['Zoe Klein'], u'2017-01-02', u'Background. The specific relationships between hosts and epiphytes are fairly unknown. Biotic factors contributing to epiphytic distribution have generally been considered secondary predictors to epiphyte growth and range. Invasive species pose risk to the biodiversity of epiphytes by altering the very specific environments epiphytes require to grow, which could ultimately harm the ecosystem as a whole. This study investigates the relationship between a tropical island vascular epiphyte, Didymoglassum tahitense, to wood density, bark phosphorus and host species in order to understand the specific interactions between host and epiphyte. Methods. Epiphytic surveys were conducted on the two native trees N. forsteri and I. fagifer and two invasive trees S. campanulata and P. falcataria to test for D. tahitense abundance and presence. Wood density for all tree species was calculated with the equation density=mass/volume, where volume was found using the displacement method and the mass by calculating dry mass. Phosphorus concentrations in the bark and epiphyte were found using an elemental analyzer. Results. The study found that D. tahitense preferred to live on the two native species N. forsteri and I. fagifer and that no D. tahitense grew on the invasive trees S. campanulata and P. falcataria. Of these four tree species, the two native trees had lower bark density and higher phosphorus concentrations where the invasive trees had higher bark density and lower phosphorus amounts. Discussion. With these findings, I assume that D. tahitense is host specific to species with high phosphorus in their wood.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2679/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of Environmental Science and Policy Management, University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'The helical domain of the EcoR124I motor subunit participates in ATPase activity and dsDNA translocation', ['Vitali Bialevich', 'Dhiraj Sinha', 'Katsiaryna Shamayeva', 'Alena Guzanova', 'David Reha', 'Eva Csefalvay', 'Jannette Carey', 'Marie Weiserova', 'Rudiger H Ettrich'], u'2017-01-02', u'Type I restriction-modification enzymes are multisubunit, multifunctional molecular machines that recognize specific DNA target sequences, and their multisubunit organization underlies their multifunctionality. EcoR124I is the archetype of Type I restriction-modification family IC and is composed of three subunit types, HsdS, HsdM, and HsdR. DNA cleavage and ATP-dependent DNA translocation activities are housed in the distinct domains of the endonuclease/motor subunit HsdR. Because the multiple functions are integrated in this large subunit of 1038 residues, a large number of interdomain contacts might be expected. The crystal structure of EcoR124I HsdR reveals a surprisingly sparse number of contacts between helicase domain 2 and the C-terminal helical domain that is thought to be involved in assembly with HsdM. Only two potential hydrogen-bonding contacts are found in a very small contact region. In the present work, the relevance of these two potential hydrogen-bonding interactions for the multiple activities of EcoR124I is evaluated by analysing mutant enzymes using in vivo and in vitro experiments. Molecular dynamics simulations are employed to provide structural interpretation of the functional data. The results indicate that the helical C-terminal domain is involved in the DNA translocation, cleavage, and ATPase activities of HsdR, and a role in controlling those activities is suggested.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2680/', ['Biochemistry', 'Biophysics', 'Computational Biology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Center for Nanobiology and Structural Biology, Institute of Microbiology of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic', u'Faculty of Sciences, University of South Bohemia', u'Institute of Microbiology, Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic', u'Chemistry Department, Princeton University', u'College of Medical Sciences, Nova Southeastern University']]
[u'Proposal of a new genome-based taxonomy for Cyanobacteria', ['Juline M Walter', 'Felipe H Coutinho', 'Bas E Dutilh', 'Fabiano Thompson', 'Cristiane C Thompson'], u'2017-01-02', u'Cyanobacteria are major contributors to global biogeochemical cycles. The genetic diversity among Cyanobacteria enables them to thrive across many habitats. However, the taxonomy of Cyanobacteria remains unstable because of an inadequate taxonomic classification system. Taxa within Cyanobacteria have historically been classified using morphological traits, which is inadequate to categorize the diversity within this phylum. The aim of this study was to propose a new taxonomic framework for Cyanobacteria using whole-genome-based taxonomic analysis including in silico Genome-to-Genome hybridization (GGH), Average Amino acid Identity (AAI), Average Nucleic acid Identity (ANI), phylogenetic reconstruction using a set of conserved marker genes (MLST), and 16S rRNA gene sequences. Applying these genomic signatures to a set of 100 cyanobacterial genomes allowed 86 species and 43 genera to be identified, among which 32 species and 19 genera were found to be novel. By exploring changes in the relative abundances of the analyzed genomes throughout diverse marine and freshwater ecosystems, we determined the ecological niches occupied by these taxa, adding another level to our proposed taxonomic scheme.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2676/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Ecology', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology', 'Taxonomy'], [u'Institute of Biology, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro - UFRJ', u'Centre for Molecular and Biomolecular Informatics (CMBI), Radboud Institute for Molecular Life Sciences, Radboud University Nijmegen', u'Theoretical Biology and Bioinformatics, Utrecht University', u'Center of Technology - CT2, SAGE-COPPE, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro - UFRJ']]
