[u'Automatic characterization of ambulatory patterns of utilitarian and leisure trips', ['Aki Harma', 'Koen de Groot'], u'2017-01-25', u'In the health self-management services it is beneficial to identify and address the already existing healthy activity patterns of the user. Some of these healthy activity patterns might be of a utilitarian nature, e.g. commuting to work by bike or on foot, or might be for leisure, like taking a walk in a park. In the paper we discuss one possibility to detect the utilitarian or leisure nature of a particular ambulatory path based on the geometry of the trajectory. In essence, a leisure trip is more commonly a round-trip while an utilitarian A-to-B trips follow the single shortest path between A and B. We define a generic measure for the characterization of utilitarian and leisure paths based on GPS location data and develop an algorithm for approaching the same based on only magnetometric data from a wearable device.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2751/', ['Kinesiology', 'Public Health', 'Computational Science'], [u'Philips Research']]
[u'Good laboratory practices and L.I.M.S. system: the challenge for a Next Generation Sequencing and bioinformatic research laboratory', ['Marinella Marzano', 'Caterina Manzari', 'Daniela Filannino', 'Rosella Pizzi', "Anna Maria D'Erchia", 'Claudia Lionetti', 'Ernesto Picardi', 'Giuseppe Sgaramella', 'Graziano Pesole', 'Antonella Lanati', 'Francesca De Leo'], u'2017-01-25', u'Introduction Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) platforms have radically changed the field of genomics and are routinely applied to a variety of functional genomics problems. Although NGS has markedly accelerated multiple areas of genomics research it is a massively parallel process and generates unprecedented volumes of data which present challenges and opportunities for data management, storage, and, most importantly, analysis and interpretation. The Molecular Biodiversity Laboratory (MoBiLab), located in Bari at the CNR-IBBE, is a NGS research infrastructure, realized within the LifeWatch European infrastructure for Biodiversity. In MoBiLab, skills and advanced facilities for molecular and bioinformatics analyses are integrated to provide the scientific community with services and counselling for molecular biodiversity studies. MoBiLab has started the set up of a quality management system based on Good Laboratory Practices (GLPs) accompanied by a Laboratory Information Management System (L.I.M.S.) in order to assure the highest levels of reliability, reproducibility and traceability of the results. Methods GLPs are considered a quality system aimed at ensuring safety, reliability and reproducibility of the non-clinical tests on chemicals intended for the use on human, animal and environment. GLPs are mandatory in OECD countries for preclinical tests, but may be also considered as a reference for laboratory management systems outside their main scope, that can be referred to as \u201cGLP-like\u201d quality systems. The L.I.M.S. is a computer system capable of handling the Acquisition stages-Processing-Storage of all data generated by a laboratory and/or processes, minimizing the risk of errors and increasing the information security. Results The internal quality system of MoBiLab has been designed by taking into account the progressive evolution of Good Research Practices. The team has first outlined a description of the main process by means of a Supplier-Input-Process-Output-Customer-like flowchart which includes the person in charge for the activity and the related documented information (Standard Operation Procedures, SOP, and records). After having identified the SOPs, researchers were provided with a template and with the instructions to draft them. In parallel, management procedures were defined by the whole team, drafted, and supported by flowcharts and other quality tools. MoBiLab, in collaboration with the Italian company Eusoft, started to develop and optimize a L.I.M.S. platform for managing all the laboratory activities through a suite of integrated modules. The platform is structured starting from the SIPOC-like flowchart and the modules are developed and customized in agreement to the SOPs. A CAPA (Corrective Action/Preventive Action) system is also going to be implemented within the LIMS. Conclusions and Perspectives The implementation of some Lean tools in the production process of the MoBiLab will be the next task of the project.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2752/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genomics', 'Molecular Biology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Institute of Biomembrane and Bioenergetics (IBBE), National Research Council', u'Eusoft S.r.l.', u'Department of Biosciences, Biotechnologies and Biosciences, University of Bari', u'Valore Qualit\xe0']]
[u'Eco-conscious resort construction reduces living coral coverage, species richness, species abundance, and increases algae coverage', ['Ryan DN Mullen'], u'2017-01-25', u'Tourism today is moving towards sustainable approaches because the industry poses significant threats to the environment. This includes a shift in construction type: to building structures that aim to coexist with their surroundings. One example of this is the overwater resort bungalow. Although there is a substantial amount of research on the effects of coastal development on the environment, there is little research on the effects of sustainable approaches. This study aimed to quantify the effects of oceanic overwater resort bungalows on coral reef ecosystems. Two overwater bungalow resort sites were investigated on the island of Mo\u2019orea in French Polynesia to see whether or not they impacted their environment. The percentage of living coral coverage, percentage of algae coverage, species abundance, and richness, were examined by surveying different areas of the lagoon that all varied in distance away from the bungalow chain. The resort sites were ultimately compared to two control sites, both without bungalows and slightly removed from the resort sites, in order to account for other factors influencing the response variables. Living coral coverage, species abundance, and species richness, were all positively correlated with distance away from the bungalow chain. Algae coverage was negatively correlated with an increase in distance. The data collected provides evidence that bungalows are impacting the environment they are situated in. Increased algae presence near the bungalow chain may be due to shade coverage produced by the bungalows. Decreased living coral coverage, species richness, and species abundance, in close proximity to the chain, may be due to the impacts of initial construction, tourists, and competition. Regulations need to be imposed on future construction of bungalows in order to avoid prolonged and greater effects on reef ecosystems. It also needs to be considered that all ecofriendly structures may be inherently affecting the environments they surround.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2750/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Environmental Science, Policy, and Management, University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'Comprehensive model optimization in pulp quality prediction: a machine learning approach', ['Chin-Wei Huang', 'Luc Baron', 'Marek Balazinski', 'Sofiane Achiche'], u'2017-01-25', u'Feature selection in machine learning is of great interest since it is reckoned as creating more efficient predictive models in several engineering domains. It is even of special importance in the pulp and paper transformation industry as the knowledge of this particular process is generally very limited. In this paper, we first compared the performance of rule-based genetic algorithm and that of adaptive neuro-fuzzy inference system; the latter is found to be more precise in predicting the pulp quality. We then combined several data mining algorithms such as genetic algorithm-partial least square regression, along with other statistical methods, to explore the relevance of all the potential variables that could be used to predict the pulp ISO brightness, an important property that is usually linked to model performance and hence pulp quality prediction. A few highly relevant variables are thereby determined, and the full set of 79 variables obtained from a Chip Management System was trimmed down to an optimized combination of 3 inputs depending on their relevancy. Peroxide charge (P), average luminance (L) and hue (H) were chosen as the optimal subset to describe the ISO brightness of the pulp and the model was simplified without losing much of its accuracy. Finally, we derived the numbers of membership functions for each variable to further refine the fuzzy logic-based prediction model. The error then reached 2.18%. The loss on accuracy was compensated by adjusting to the fittest membership function numbers', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2749/', ['Artificial Intelligence', 'Data Mining and Machine Learning'], [u'Department of Mechanical Engineering, \xc9cole Polytechnique de Montr\xe9al']]
[u'Statistical heartburn: An attempt to digest four pizza publications from the Cornell Food and Brand Lab', ['Tim van der Zee', 'Jordan Anaya', 'Nicholas J L Brown'], u'2017-01-25', u'We present the initial results of a reanalysis of four articles from the Cornell Food and Brand Lab based on data collected from diners at an Italian restaurant buffet. On a \ufb01rst glance at these articles, we immediately noticed a number of apparent inconsistencies in the summary statistics. A thorough reading of the articles and careful reanalysis of the results revealed additional problems. The sample sizes for the number of diners in each condition are incongruous both within and between the four articles. In some cases, the degrees of freedom of between-participant test statistics are larger than the sample size, which is impossible. Many of the computed F and t statistics are inconsistent with the reported means and standard deviations. In some cases, the number of possible inconsistencies for a single statistic was such that we were unable to determine which of the components of that statistic were incorrect. We contacted the authors of the four articles, but they have thus far not agreed to share their data. The attached Appendix reports approximately 150 inconsistencies in these four articles, which we were able to identify from the reported statistics alone. We hope that our analysis will encourage readers, using and extending the simple methods that we describe, to undertake their own efforts to verify published results, and that such initiatives will improve the accuracy and reproducibility of the scienti\ufb01c literature.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2748/', ['Ethical Issues', 'Science Policy', 'Statistics'], [u'Graduate School of Teaching (ICLON), Leiden University', u'omnesres.com', u'University Medical Center, University of Groningen']]
