[u'UNOISE2: improved error-correction for Illumina 16S and ITS amplicon sequencing', ['Robert C Edgar'], u'October 15, 2016.', u'Amplicon sequencing of tags such as 16S and ITS ribosomal RNA is a popular method for investigating microbial populations. In such experiments, sequence errors caused by PCR and sequencing are difficult to distinguish from true biological variation. I describe UNOISE2, an updated version of the UNOISE algorithm for denoising (error-correcting) Illumina amplicon reads and show that it has comparable or better accuracy than DADA2.', u'/content/early/2016/10/15/081257', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Independent Scientist']]
[u'Structure and culture of the gut microbiome of the Mormon cricket Anabrus simplex', ['Chad C Smith', 'Robert B Srygley', 'Frank Healy', 'Karthikeyan Swaminath'], u'October 15, 2016.', u'The gut microbiome of insects plays an important role in their ecology and evolution, participating in nutrient acquisition, immunity, and behavior. Microbial community structure within the gut is thought to be heavily influenced by differences among gut regions in morphology and physiology, which determine the niches available for microbes to colonize. We present a high-resolution analysis of the structure of the gut microbiome in the Mormon cricket Anabrus simplex, an insect known for its periodic outbreaks in the Western United States and nutrition-dependent mating system. We found the Mormon cricket microbiome was dominated by eleven bacterial phylotypes from the Lactobacillaceae, Enterobacteriaceae, and Streptococcaeae. While most of these were represented in all gut regions, there were marked differences in their relative abundance, with lactic-acid bacteria (Lactobacillaceae) more common in the foregut and midgut and enteric (Enterobacteriaceae) bacteria more common in the hindgut. Differences in community structure were driven by variation in the relative prevalence of three groups: a Lactobacillus phylotype in the foregut, Pediococcus lactic-acid bacteria in the midgut, and Pantoea agglomerans, an enteric bacterium, in the hindgut. These taxa have been shown to have beneficial effects on their hosts in insects or other animals by improving nutrition, increasing resistance to pathogens, and modulating social behavior. Phylogenetic analysis of 16s rRNA sequences from cultured isolates indicated low levels of divergence from sequences derived from plants and other insects, suggesting that these bacteria are likely to be frequently exchanged between Mormon crickets and the environment. Our study provides the foundation for future work on an economically important insect and emerging model for the study of how social interaction influence host-microbe symbiosis.', u'/content/early/2016/10/15/080846', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Texas at Austin;', u'USDA-ARS Northern Plains Area Research Laboratory;', u'Trinity University']]
[u'Take ACTION to identify high-resolution cell types and associated transcriptional pathways', ['Shahin Mohammadi', 'Vikram Ravindra', 'David Gleich', 'Ananth Grama'], u'October 15, 2016.', u'Single-cell transcriptomic data has the potential to radically redefine our view of cell type identity. Cells that were previously believed to be homogeneous are now clearly distinguishable in terms of their expression phenotype. Methods that automatically identify cell types and their properties based on expression profiles can be used to uncover processes involved in lineage differentiation as well as sub-typing. They can also be used to suggest personalized therapies based on molecular signatures associated with pathology. We develop a new method, called ACTION, for projecting cells onto the state space of functional profiles, classifying them according to their principal functions, and reconstructing cell type-specific regulatory networks. Results on sub-typing cancer cells in Melanoma patients reveal novel biomarkers along with their regulatory networks.', u'/content/early/2016/10/15/081273', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Purdue;', u'Purdue University']]
[u'Evaluating the accuracy of genomic prediction of growth and wood traits in two Eucalyptus species and their F1 hybrids', ['Biyue Tan', 'Dario Grattapaglia', 'Gustavo Salgado Martins', 'Karina Zamprogno Ferreira', 'Bjorn Sundberg', 'Par K Ingvarsson'], u'October 15, 2016.', u'Background: Genomic prediction is a genomics assisted breeding methodology that can increase genetic gains by accelerating the breeding cycle and potentially improving the accuracy of breeding values. In this study, we used 41,304 informative SNPs genotyped in a Eucalyptus breeding population involving 90 E.grandis and 78 E.urophylla parents and their 949 F1 hybrids to develop genomic prediction models for eight phenotypic traits - basic density and pulp yield, circumference at breast height and height and tree volume scored at age thee and six years. Based on different genomic prediction methods we assessed the impact of the composition and size of the training/validation sets and the number and genomic location of SNPs on the predictive ability (PA).  Results: Heritabilities estimated using the realized genomic relationship matrix (GRM) were considerably higher than estimates based on the expected pedigree, mainly due to inconsistencies in the expected pedigree that were readily corrected by the GRM. Moreover, GRM more precisely capture Mendelian sampling among related individuals, such that the genetic covariance was based on the actual proportion of the genome shared between individuals. PA improved considerably when increasing the size of the training set and by enhancing relatedness to the validation set. Prediction models trained on pure species parents could not predict well in F1 hybrids, indicating that model training has to be carried out in hybrid populations if one is to predict in hybrid selection candidates. The different genomic prediction methods provided similar results for all traits, therefore GBLUP or rrBLUP represents better compromises between computational time and prediction efficiency. Only slight improvement was observed in PA when more than 5,000 SNPs were used for all traits. Using SNPs in intergenic regions provided slightly better PA than using SNPs sampled exclusively in genic regions.  Conclusions: Effects of training set size and composition and number of SNPs used are the most important factors for model prediction rather than prediction method and the genomic location of SNPs. Furthermore, training the prediction model on pure parental species provide limited ability to predict traits in interspecific hybrids. Our results provide additional promising perspectives for the implementation of genomic prediction in Eucalyptus breeding programs.', u'/content/early/2016/10/15/081281', [u'Genetics'], [u'Ume\xe5 university;', u'EMBRAPA Genetic Resources and Biotechnology;', u'Veracel Celulose S.A.;', u'Stora Enso;', u'Ume\xe5 University']]
[u'Modeling antimicrobial cycling and mixing: Differences arising from an individual-based versus a population-based perspective', ['Hildegard Uecker', 'Sebastian Bonhoeffer'], u'October 15, 2016.', u'Background: In order to manage bacterial infections in hospitals in the face of antibiotic resistance, the two treatment protocols "mixing" and "cycling" have received considerable attention both from modelers and clinicians. However, the terms are not used in exactly the same way by both groups.\n\nObjectives: We aim to investigate a model that comes closer to clinical practice and compare the predictions to the standard model.\n\nMethods: We set up two deterministic models, implemented as a set of differential equations, for the spread of bacterial infections in a hospital. Following the traditional approach, the first model takes a population-based perspective. The second model, in contrast, takes the drug use of individual patients into account.\n\nResults: The alternative model can indeed lead to different predictions than the standard model. We provide examples for which in the new model, the opposite strategy maximizes the number of uninfected patients or minimizes the rate of spread of double resistance.\n\nConclusions: While the traditional models provide valuable insight, care is needed in the interpretation of results.', u'/content/early/2016/10/15/081067', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'ETH Zurich']]
[u'Systematic Design and Comparison of Expanded Carrier Screening Panels', ['Kyle A Beauchamp', 'Dale Muzzey', 'Kenny K Wong', 'Gregory J Hogan', 'Kambiz Karimi', 'Sophie I Candille', 'Nikita Mehta', 'Rebecca Mar-Heyming', 'H. Peter Kang', 'Eric A Evans', 'James D Goldberg', 'Gabriel A Lazarin', 'Imran S Haque'], u'October 15, 2016.', u'Purpose:  The recent growth in pan-ethnic expanded carrier screening (ECS) has raised questions about how such panels might be designed and evaluated in a principled manner. Systematic design principles for ECS panels might improve clinical detection of at-risk couples and facilitate objective discussions of panel choice.\n\nMethods: Guided by medical-society statements, we propose a method for the design of ECS panels that aims to maximize both the aggregate and per-disease sensitivity and specificity across a range of Mendelian disorders considered "severe" or "profound" by a systematic classification scheme. We evaluated this method retrospectively using results from 405,195 de-identified carrier screens.  We then constructed several idealized panels to highlight strengths and limitations of different ECS methodologies.\n\nResults: Based on modeled fetal risks for "severe" and "profound" diseases, a commercially available ECS panel (Counsyl Family Prep Screen) is expected to detect 183 affected conceptuses per 100,000 in the US population. A screen\'s sensitivity is greatly impacted by two factors: (1) the methodology used (e.g., full-exon sequencing finds up to 48 more affected fetuses per 100,000 than targeted genotyping with an optimal 50 variant panel), and (2) the detection rate of the screen for diseases with high prevalence and complex molecular genetics (e.g., fragile X syndrome, spinal muscular atrophy, 21-hydroxylase deficiency, and alpha-thalassemia account for 54 affected fetuses per 100,000). \n\nConclusion: The described approaches allow principled, quantitative evaluation of which diseases and methodologies are appropriate for pan-ethnic expanded carrier screening.', u'/content/early/2016/10/15/080713', [u'Genetics'], [u'Counsyl']]
[u'A comparative study of metagenomics analysis pipelines at the species level', ['Yee Voan Teo', 'Nicola Neretti'], u'October 15, 2016.', u'Many metagenomics classification tools have been developed with the rapid growth of the metagenomics field. However, the classification of closely related species remains a challenge for this field. Here, we compared MetaPhlAn2, kallisto and Kraken for their performances in two metagenomics settings, human metagenomics and environmental metagenomics. Our comparative study showed that kallisto demonstrated higher sensitivity than MetaPhlAn2 and Kraken and better quantification accuracy than Kraken at the species level. We also showed that classification tools that run on full reference genomes misidentified many species that were not truly present. In order to reduce false positives, we introduced marker genes from MetaPhlAn2 into our pipeline, which uses kallisto for the classification step, as an additional filtering step for species detection.', u'/content/early/2016/10/15/081141', [u'Genomics'], [u'Brown University']]
