[u'Complete avian malaria parasite genomes reveal host-specific parasite evolution in birds and mammals', ['Ulrike Boehme', 'Thomas D. Otto', 'James Cotton', 'Sascha Steinbiss', 'Mandy Sanders', 'Samuel O. Oyola', 'Antoine Nicot', 'Sylvain Gandon', 'Kailash P. Patra', 'Colin Herd', 'Ellen Bushell', 'Katarzyna K. Modrzynska', 'Oliver Billker', 'Joseph M. Vinetz', 'Ana Rivero', 'Chris I. Newbold', 'Matthew Berriman'], u'November 8, 2016.', u'Avian malaria parasites are prevalent around the world, and infect a wide diversity of bird species. Here we report the sequencing and analysis of high quality draft genome sequences for two avian malaria species, Plasmodium relictum and Plasmodium gallinaceum. We identify 50 genes that are specific to avian malaria, located in an otherwise conserved core of the genome that shares gene synteny with all other sequenced malaria genomes. Phylogenetic analysis suggests that the avian malaria species form an outgroup to the mammalian Plasmodium species. Consistent with their phylogenetic position, we identify orthologs of genes that had previously appeared to be restricted to the clades of parasites containing P. falciparum and P. vivax - the species with the greatest impact on human health. The subtelomeres of P. relictum and P. gallinaceum contain several novel gene families, including an expanded surf multigene family. We also identify an expansion of reticulocyte binding protein homologs in P. relictum and within these proteins proteins, we detect distinct regions that are specific to non-human primate, humans, rodent and avian hosts. For the first time in the Plasmodium lineage we find evidence of transposable elements, including several hundred fragments of LTR-retrotransposons in both species and an apparently complete LTR-retrotransposon in the genome of P. gallinaceum.', u'/content/early/2016/11/08/086504', [], [u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'International Livestock Research Institute, Nairobi, Kenya;', u'University of Montpellier;', u'University of California San Diego;', u'University of California, San Diego;', u'MIVEGEC (CNRS UMR 5290), Montpellier, France;', u'University of Oxford;', u'Sanger Institute']]
[u'Synthetic hypermutation: gene-drug mutation rate synergy reveals a translesion synthesis mechanism', ['Romulo M Segovia', 'Yaoqing Shen', 'Scott A Lujan', 'Steven Jones', 'Peter C Stirling'], u'November 8, 2016.', u'Gene-gene or gene-drug interactions are typically quantified using fitness as readout because the data is continuous and easily measured in high-throughput. However, to what extent fitness captures the range of other phenotypes that show synergistic effects is usually unknown. Using Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and focusing on a matrix of DNA repair mutants and genotoxic drugs, we quantify 76 gene-drug interactions based on both mutation rate and fitness and find that these parameters are not necessarily overlapping. Independent of fitness defects we identified six cases of synthetic hypermutation, where the combined effect of the drug and mutant on mutation rate was greater than predicted. One example occurred when yeast lacking RAD1 were exposed to cisplatin and we characterized this interaction using whole-genome sequencing. Our sequencing results indicate mutagenesis by cisplatin in rad1\u0394 cells appeared to depend almost entirely on interstrand crosslinks at GpCpN motifs. Interestingly, our data suggests that the 3\u2032 base in these motifs templates the addition of the mutated base. This result differs from cisplatin mutation signatures in XPF-deficient C. elegans and supports a model in which translesion synthesis polymerases perform a slippage and realignment extension across from the damaged base. Accordingly, DNA polymerase \u03b6 activity was essential for mutagenesis in cisplatin treated rad1\u0394 cells. Together these data reveal the potential to gain new mechanistic insights from non-fitness measures of gene-drug interactions and extend the use of mutation accumulation and whole-genome sequencing analysis to define DNA repair mechanisms.', u'/content/early/2016/11/08/086512', [], [u'BC Cancer Agency;', u'Michael Smith Genome Sciences Centre;', u'Genome Integrity and Structural Biology Laboratory, National Institute of Environmental Health Scien']]
[u'Novel computational method for predicting polytherapy switching strategies to overcome tumor heterogeneity and evolution', ['Vanessa D Jonsson', 'Colin M Blakely', 'Luping Lin', 'Saurabh Asthana', 'Victor Olivas', 'Matthew A Gubens', 'Nikolai Matni', 'Boris C Bastian', 'Barry S Taylor', 'John C Doyle', 'Trever G Bivona'], u'November 8, 2016.', u'The success of targeted cancer therapy is limited by drug resistance that can result from tumor genetic heterogeneity. The current approach to address resistance typically involves initiating a new treatment after clinical/radiographic disease progression, ultimately resulting in futility in most patients. Towards a potential alternative solution, we developed a novel computational framework that uses human cancer profiling data to systematically identify dynamic, pre-emptive, and sometimes non-intuitive treatment strategies that can better control tumors in real-time. By studying lung adenocarcinoma clinical specimens and preclinical models, our computational analyses revealed that the best anti-cancer strategies addressed existing resistant subpopulations as they emerged dynamically during treatment. In some cases, the best computed treatment strategy used unconventional therapy switching while the bulk tumor was responding, a prediction we confirmed in vitro. The new framework presented here could guide the principled implementation of dynamic molecular monitoring and treatment strategies to improve cancer control.', u'/content/early/2016/11/08/086553', [], [u'City of Hope National Medical Center;', u'UCSF;', u'USCF;', u'California Institute of Technology;', u'Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center']]
[u'Neuromodulatory circuit effects on Drosophila feeding behaviour and metabolism', ['Anders Eriksson', 'Marlena Raczkowska', 'Rapeechai Navawongse', 'Deepak Choudhury', 'James Stewart', 'Yi Ling Tang', 'Zhiping Wang', 'Adam Claridge-Chang'], u'November 8, 2016.', u'All animals have evolved to adapt their behaviour and internal metabolism to a changing external environment in order to maintain homeostasis. Both metabolism and feeding behaviour are coordinated by hormone activity and neuromodulation, and a number of the implicated neuromodulatory systems are homologous between mammals and the important neurogenetic model Drosophila melanogaster. We hypothesized that silencing broad neuromodulatory systems would elicit systematic, cohesive changes in feeding, behavioural activity and metabolism. To test our hypothesis, we employed transgenic drivers that allowed us to inhibit large cellular sets of the dopaminergic, serotonergic, octopaminergic, tyraminergic and neuropeptide F systems. The resulting groups of genetically manipulated fly stocks were then assessed for changes in their overt behavioural response and metabolism by monitoring eleven parameters: activity, climbing ability, individual feeding, group feeding, food discovery, respiration (fed/starved), lipid content (fed/starved) and whole-body weight (fed/starved). Our data indicated that individual neuromodulatory systems can have dissociated effects on feeding behaviour, motor activity and metabolism. These results refute our original hypothesis, and instead suggest that neuromodulatory systems in D. melanogaster exert specialised functions across and within neurotransmitter cell types.', u'/content/early/2016/11/08/086413', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology;', u'Singapore Institute of Manufacturing Technology,;', u'Singapore Institute of Manufacturing Technology;', u'Duke-NUS Medical School']]
[u'A Deep Boosting Based Approach for Capturing the Sequence Binding Preferences of RNA-Binding Proteins from High-Throughput CLIP-Seq Data', ['Shuya Li', 'Fanghong Dong', 'Yuexin Wu', 'Sai Zhang', 'Chen Zhang', 'Xiao Liu', 'Tao Jiang', 'Jianyang Zeng'], u'November 8, 2016.', u'Characterizing the binding behaviors of RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) is important for understanding their functional roles in gene expression regulation. However, current high-throughput experimental methods for identifying RBP targets, such as CLIP-seq and RNAcompete, usually suffer from the false positive and false negative issues. Here, we develop a deep boosting based machine learning approach, called DeBooster, to accurately model the binding sequence preferences and identify the corresponding binding targets of RBPs from CLIP-seq data. Comprehensive validation tests have shown that DeBooster can outperform other state-of-the-art approaches in predicting RBP targets and recover false negatives that are common in current CLIP-seq data. In addition, we have demonstrated several new potential applications of DeBooster in understanding the regulatory functions of RBPs, including the binding effects of the RNA helicase MOV10 on mRNA degradation, the influence of different binding behaviors of the ADAR proteins on RNA editing, as well as the antagonizing effect of RBP binding on miRNA repression. Moreover, DeBooster may provide an effective index to investigate the effect of pathogenic mutations in RBP binding sites, especially those related to splicing events. We expect that DeBooster will be widely applied to analyze large-scale CLIP-seq experimental data and can provide a practically useful tool for novel biological discoveries in understanding the regulatory mechanisms of RBPs. The scource code of DeBooster can be downloaded from http://github.com/dongfanghong/deepboost.', u'/content/early/2016/11/08/086421', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Tsinghua University;', u'University of California - Riverside']]
[u'Theory for the spatiotemporal interaction between lytic phages and biofilm-dwelling bacteria', ['Matthew Simmons', 'Knut Drescher', 'Carey Nadell', 'Vanni Bucci'], u'November 8, 2016.', u'Many bacteria are adapted for attaching to surfaces and building complex communities, or biofilms. This mode of life is predominant in microbial ecology. So, too, is exposure of bacteria to viral pathogens, the bacteriophages. It is likely that biofilm-phage encounters are common in nature, but we know very little about how phages might interact with biofilm-dwelling bacteria. Making headway in this relatively unknown area requires new techniques, and here we develop the first biofilm simulation framework that captures key features of biofilm growth and phage infection. We describe the framework in detail and use it to study the population dynamics of lytic phages and susceptible bacterial hosts in biofilms. The system displays a rich array of dynamical steady states, and these are governed largely by nutrient availability to biofilms, phage infection likelihood, and the ability of phages to diffuse through biofilm populations. Interactions between the biofilm matrix and phage particles are likely to be of fundamental importance, controlling the extent to which bacteria and phages can coexist in natural contexts. Our results build on the rich literature exploring bacteria-phage interactions, and open avenues to new questions of host-parasite coevolution in the spatially structured biofilm context.', u'/content/early/2016/11/08/086462', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Massachusetts, Dartmouth;', u'Max Planck Institute for Terrestrial Microbiology']]
[u'A Critical-like Collective State Leads to Long-range Cell Communication in Dictyostelium discoideum Aggregation', ['Giovanna De Palo', 'Darvin Yi', 'Robert Endres'], u'November 8, 2016.', u'The transition from single-cell to multicellular behavior is important in early development but rarely studied. The starvation-induced aggregation of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum into a multicellular slug is known to result from single-cell chemotaxis towards emitted pulses of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). However, how exactly do transient short-range chemical gradients lead to coherent collective movement at a macroscopic scale? Here, we use a multiscale model verified by quantitative microscopy to describe wide-ranging behaviors from chemotaxis and excitability of individual cells to aggregation of thousands of cells. To better understand the mechanism of long-range cell-cell communication and hence aggregation, we analyze cell-cell correlations, showing evidence for self-organization at the onset of aggregation (as opposed to following a leader cell). Surprisingly, cell collectives, despite their finite size, show features of criticality known from phase transitions in physical systems. Application of external cAMP perturbations in our simulations near the sensitive critical point allows steering cells into early aggregation and towards certain locations but not once an aggregation center has been chosen.', u'/content/early/2016/11/08/086538', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Imperial College London;', u'Stanford University']]
[u'Asymmetrical representation of the upper and lower visual fields in oculomotor maps', ['Zhiguo Wang', 'Benchi Wang', 'Matthew Finkbeiner'], u'November 8, 2016.', u"The striate area devoted to the lower visual field (LVF) is larger than that devoted to the upper visual field (UVF). A similar anatomical asymmetry also exists in the LGN. Here we take advantage of two experimental tasks that are known to modulate the direction and amplitude of saccades to demonstrate a visual field asymmetry in oculomotor maps. Participants made visually guided saccades. In Experiment 1, the saccade target was accompanied by a visual distractor. The distractor's presence modulated the direction of saccades, and this effect was much stronger for LVF targets. In Experiment 2, the temporal gap between the offset of the fixation stimulus and the onset of the saccade target was manipulated. This manipulation modulated the amplitude of saccades and this modulation was stronger for saccades towards UVF targets. Taken together, these results suggest that the representation of both meridians and eccentricities in the LVF is compressed in oculomotor maps.", u'/content/early/2016/11/08/086397', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Hangzhou Normal University;', u'Department of Cognitive Psychology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam;', u'Department of Cognitive Science, Macquarie University']]
[u'Selection on the FADS region in Europeans', ['Matthew T Buckley', 'Fernando Racimo', 'Morten E. Allentoft', 'Majken K. Karoline', 'Anna Jonsson', 'Hongyan Huang', 'Farhad Hormozdiari', 'Martin Sikora', 'Davide Marnetto', 'Eleazar Eskin', 'Marit E. Jrgensen', 'Niels Grarup', 'Oluf Pedersen', 'Torben Hansen', 'Peter Kraft', 'Eske Willerslev', 'Rasmus Nielsen'], u'November 8, 2016.', u'FADS genes encode fatty acid desaturases that are important for the conversion of short chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) to long chain fatty acids. Prior studies indicate that the FADS genes have been subjected to strong positive selection in Africa, South Asia, Greenland, and Europe. By comparing FADS sequencing data from present-day and Bronze Age (5-3k years ago) Europeans, we identify possible targets of selection in the European population, which suggest that selection has targeted different alleles in the FADS genes in Europe than it has in South Asia or Greenland. The alleles showing the strongest changes in allele frequency since the Bronze Age show associations with expression changes and multiple lipid-related phenotypes. Furthermore, the selected alleles are associated with a decrease in linoleic acid and an increase in arachidonic and eicosapentaenoic acids among Europeans; this is an opposite effect of that observed for selected alleles in Inuit from Greenland. We show that multiple SNPs in the region affect expression levels and PUFA synthesis. Additionally, we find evidence for a gene-environment interaction influencing low-density lipoprotein (LDL) levels between alleles affecting PUFA synthesis and PUFA dietary intake: carriers of the selected, derived allele have diminished increases in LDL cholesterol with a higher intake of PUFAs.  We hypothesize that the selective patterns observed in Europeans were driven by a change in dietary composition of fatty acids following the transition to agriculture, resulting in a lower intake of arachidonic acid and eicosapentaenoic acid, but a higher intake of linoleic acid and \u03b1-linolenic acid.', u'/content/early/2016/11/08/086439', [u'Genetics'], [u'UC Berkeley;', u'University of Copenhagen;', u'Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health;', u'University of California, Los Angeles;', u'University of Torino;', u'University of Southern Denmark']]
[u'Rotamer libraries for the high-resolution design of beta-amino acid foldamers', ['Andrew W Watkins', 'P. Douglas Renfrew', 'Timothy W Craven', 'Paramjit S Arora', 'Richard Bonneau'], u'November 8, 2016.', u'\u03b2-amino acids offer attractive opportunities to develop biologically active peptidomimetics, either employed alone or in conjunction with natural \u03b1-amino acids. Owing to their potential for unique conformational preferences that deviate considerably from \u03b1-peptide geometries, \u03b2-amino acids greatly expand the possible chemistries and physical properties available to polyamide foldamers. Complete in silico support for designing new molecules incorporating nonnatural amino acids typically requires representing their side chain conformations as sets of discrete rotamers for model refinement and sequence optimization. Such rotamer libraries are key components of several state of the art design frameworks. Here we report the development, incorporation in to the Rosetta macromolecular modeling suite, and validation of rotamer libraries for \u03b23-amino acids.', u'/content/early/2016/11/08/086389', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'NYU & Stanford;', u'Simons Foundation;', u'NYU & University of Washington;', u'NYU;', u'NYU & Simons Foundation']]
[u'Examination of memory from a first-person frame of reference provides evidence for a relationship between learning and LTP induction', ['Kunjumon I Vadakkan'], u'November 8, 2016.', u'Correlation between behavioral markers of memory retrieval and long-term potentiation (LTP) observed at regions with groups of synapses is one of the examples of an inter-connecting bridge between the fields of psychology and neuroscience. However, several mismatches between the findings at the time of learning and LTP induction have raised concerns. This provides an opportunity to re-examine the situation and arrive at the correct cellular mechanism of learning from which retrieval of memory can occur, which will enable an explanation of both the correlations and the mismatches. Since there are no cellular-level changes observed during memory retrieval, a passive reactivation of a stably maintained learning-induced mechanism is responsible for both memory and the concurrently occurring behavioral motor actions. In this context, when memories are viewed as first-person internal sensations, the derived cellular-level mechanism provides explanations for almost all the features of LTP, its correlations and mismatches.', u'/content/early/2016/11/08/085589', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Neurosearch Center, Toronto']]
[u'Resting state functional coupling between the ascending synchronising system, limbic system and the default mode network via theta oscillations', ['Parnesh Raniga', 'Bryan Paton', 'Gary Egan'], u'November 8, 2016.', u'In order to better understand dysfunction in dementia and psychiatric illnesses, the underlying neuronal systems that give rise to normal memory and cognitive processes need to be better understood. Based on electrophysiological recordings in animals, theta oscillations have been proposed as an intrinsic mechanism for the orchestration of memory functions, especially episodic and autobiographical. Theta oscillations are controlled by the ascending synchronising system, a set of nucleui in the pontine tegmentum and basal forebrain. At a network level, the default mode network has been shown to be responsible for episodic and autobiographical. \n\nUsing resting state fMRI data, we show using an ICA approach, seed based connectivity and dynamic causal modelling that the ascending synchronising system is coupled to the medial temporal lobe nodes including the hippocampus and parahippocampal gyrus and with the default mode network. Our results provide thus support the role of theta oscillations in memory function and coordination.', u'/content/early/2016/11/08/086058', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'The Australian eHealth Research Centre, CSIRO Health and Biosecurity;', u'School of Psychology, University of Newcastle;', u'Monash Biomedical Imaging, Monash University']]
[u'ploidyNGS: Visually exploring ploidy with Next Generation Sequencing data', ['Renato A. C. dos Santos', 'Gustavo H Goldman', 'Diego M Riano-Pachon'], u'November 8, 2016.', u'Summary: ploidyNGS is a model-free, open source tool to visualize and explore ploidy levels in a newly sequenced genome, exploiting short read data. We tested ploidyNGS using both simulated and real NGS data of the model yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. ploidyNGS allows the identification of the ploidy level of a newly sequenced genome in a visual way.  Availability and implementation: ploidyNGS is available under the GNU General Public License (GPL) at https://github.com/diriano/ploidyNGS. ploidyNGS is implemented in Python and R.', u'/content/early/2016/11/08/086488', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Centro National de Pesquisa em Energia e Materiais;', u'Universidade de Sao Paulo']]
[u'Stability and plasticity of contextual modulation in the mouse visual cortex', ['Adam Ranson'], u'November 8, 2016.', u'Activity of neurons in primary sensory cortex is strongly shaped by visual and behavioural context. However the long-term stability vs. plasticity of the influence of contextual factors in the mature cortex remains poorly understood. To investigate this we used chronic 2-photon calcium imaging to track the influence of surround suppression and locomotion on individual neurons over 14 days. We found that a small fraction of highly active excitatory neurons and as well as most PV+ interneurons, exhibited stable modulation by visual context. Similarly most neurons exhibited a stable yet distinct degree modulation by locomotion. In contrast less active neurons exhibited robust plasticity in the influence of visual context which was driven by passive visual stimulation and resulted in greater influence of the visual surround. These findings suggest that the mature visual cortex possesses stable subnetworks of neurons, differentiated by cell type and activity level, which have unique and fixed interactions with sensory and behavioural context, as well as other less active and more labile neurons which are highly sensitive to visual experience.', u'/content/early/2016/11/08/069880', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Cardiff University']]
[u'Predicting the phenotype of Mendelian disease missense mutations using amino acid conservation and protein stability change', ['Maria T Chavez', 'Ethan O Perlstein'], u'November 8, 2016.', u'Many Mendelian diseases are caused by recessive, loss-of-function missense mutations. On a gene-by-gene basis, it has been demonstrated that missense mutations cause, among other defects, protein misfolding, protein instability, protein mistransport, which strongly suggests that pathogenic missense mutations do not occur at random positions. Based on those observations, we predicted that Mendelian disease missense mutations are enriched in evolutionarily-conserved amino acids. In a pilot set of 260 Mendelian diseases genes affecting cellular organelles we show that missense mutations indeed occur in amino acids that are significantly more conserved than the average amino acid in the protein based on three different scoring methods (Jensen Shannon Divergence p = 7.78E-03, Shannon Entropy p = 1.68E-13, Sum of Pairs p = 1.55E-17). In order to understand how these results might be related to clinical phenotypes in humans or preclinical phenotypes in model organisms, we calculated the protein stability change upon mutation (\u0394\u0394Gu) using EASE-MM and found that, on average, pathogenic mutations cause a stability change of greater magnitude than benign mutations (p = 4.414428E-23). Finally, we performed a computational case study on NPC1, the gene responsible for 95% of diagnosed cases of the lysosomal storage disorder Niemann-Pick Type C using a set of 411 missense mutations from the Exome Aggregation Consortium.', u'/content/early/2016/11/08/086470', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Perlara PBC']]
[u'Ribo-attenuators: novel elements for reliable and modular riboswitch engineering', ['Thomas Folliard', 'Thomas Paul Prescott', 'Christopher W Jones', 'Travis Bayer', 'Judith P Armitage', 'Antonis Papachristodoulou', 'Lynn J Rothschild'], u'November 8, 2016.', u'Riboswitches are structural genetic regulatory elements that directly couple the sensing of small molecules to gene expression. They have considerable potential for applications throughout synthetic biology and bio-manufacturing as they are able to sense a wide range of small molecules and in response regulate gene expression. Despite over a decade of research they have yet to reach this considerable potential as they cannot be treated as modular components. This is due to several limitations including, sensitivity to changes in genetic context, low tunability and large degrees of variation. To overcome the associated difficulties with riboswitches, we have designed and introduced a novel genetic element called a Ribo-attenuator. This genetic element allows for predictable tuning, insulation from contextual changes and a reduction in expression variation.  Ribo-attenuators allow riboswitches to be treated as a truly modular and tunable component, and thus increase their reliability for a wide range of applications.', u'/content/early/2016/11/08/086199', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'University of Oxford;', u'Asilomar Bio;', u'National Aeronautics and Space Administration']]
[u'Measuring the importance of annotation granularity to the detection of semantic similarity between phenotype profiles', ['Prashanti Manda', 'James P Balhoff', 'Todd J Vision'], u'November 8, 2016.', u'In phenotype annotations curated from the biological\nand medical literature, considerable human effort must be\ninvested to select ontological classes that capture the expressivity\nof the original natural language descriptions, and finer annotation\ngranularity can also entail higher computational costs for particular\nreasoning tasks. Do coarse annotations suffice for certain\napplications? Here, we measure how annotation granularity\naffects the statistical behavior of semantic similarity metrics.\nWe use a randomized dataset of phenotype profiles drawn\nfrom 57,051 taxon-phenotype annotations in the Phenoscape\nKnowledgebase. We compared query profiles having variable\nproportions of matching phenotypes to subject database profiles\nusing both pairwise and groupwise Jaccard (edge-based) and\nResnik (node-based) semantic similarity metrics, and compared\nstatistical performance for three different levels of annotation\ngranularity: entities alone, entities plus attributes, and entities\nplus qualities (with implicit attributes). All four metrics examined\nshowed more extreme values than expected by chance when\napproximately half the annotations matched between the query\nand subject profiles, with a more sudden decline for pairwise\nstatistics and a more gradual one for the groupwise statistics.\nAnnotation granularity had a negligible effect on the position of\nthe threshold at which matches could be discriminated from noise.\nThese results suggest that coarse annotations of phenotypes, at\nthe level of entities with or without attributes, may be sufficient to\nidentify phenotype profiles with statistically significant semantic\nsimilarity.', u'/content/early/2016/11/08/086306', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of North Carolina, Greensboro;', u'RTI International;', u'University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill']]
[u'Exploiting expression patterns across multiple gene isoforms to identify radiation response biomarkers in early-stage breast cancer patients.', ['Chaitanya R Acharya', 'Kouros Owzar', 'Janet K Horton', 'Andrew S Allen'], u'November 8, 2016.', u'In an effort to understand the underlying biology of radiation response along with whole transcriptome effects of preoperative radiotherapy in early-stage breast tumors, we propose two efficient score-based statistical methods that exploit gene expression patterns across all available gene transcript isoforms and identify potential biomarkers in the form of differentially expressed genes and differentially enriched gene-sets. We demonstrate the effectiveness of these two methods using extensive simulation studies that show that both of our methods give improved performance, in terms of statistical power, over the most commonly used methods. By exploiting radiation-induced changes in all available gene transcript isoforms, we identified several statistically significant differentially expressed genes related to PI3K-AKT and JAK-STAT signaling pathways along with radiation-induced oncogenic signaling pathways and tumor microenvironment gene signatures that could be potential targets to improve response to radiotherapy in breast tumors.', u'/content/early/2016/11/08/086322', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Duke University']]
[u'Anchored Phylogenomics of Angiosperms I: Assessing the Robustness of Phylogenetic Estimates', ['Chris Budenhagen', 'Alan R. Lemmon', 'Emily Moriarty Lemmon', 'Jeremy Bruhl', 'Jennifer Cappa', 'Wendy L. Clement', 'Michael Donoghue', 'Erika J. Edwards', 'Andrew L. Hipp', 'Michelle Kortyna', 'Nora Mitchell', 'Abigail Moore', 'Christina J. Prychid', 'Maria C. Segovia-Salcedo', 'Mark P. Simmons', 'Pamela S. Soltis', 'Stefan Wanke', 'Austin Mast'], u'November 8, 2016.', u'We leverage genomic resources from 43 angiosperm species to develop enrichment probes useful for collecting ~500 loci from non-model taxa across the diversity of angiosperms. By taking an anchored phylogenomics approach, in which probes are designed to represent sequence diversity across the group, we are able to efficiently target loci with sufficient phylogenetic signal to resolve deep, intermediate, and shallow angiosperm relationships. After demonstrating the utility of this resource, we present a method that generates a heat map for each node on a phylogeny that reveals the sensitivity of support for the node across analysis conditions, as well as different locus, site and taxon schemes. Focusing on the effect of locus and site sampling, we use this approach to statistically evaluate relative support for the alternative relationships among eudicots, monocots, and magnoliids. Although the results from supermatrix and coalescent analyses are largely consistent across the tree, we find support for this deep relationship to be more sensitive to the particular choice of sites and loci when a supermatrix approach as employed. Averaged across analysis approaches and data subsampling schemes, our data support a eudicot-monocot sister relationship, which is supported by a number of recent angiosperm studies.', u'/content/early/2016/11/08/086298', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Florida State University;', u'University of New England;', u'Colorado State University;', u'The College of New Jersey;', u'Yale University;', u'Brown University;', u'University of Connecticut;', u'University of Oklahoma;', u'Royal Botanic Gardens Kew;', u'Universidad de las Fuerzas Armadas;', u'University of Florida;', u'Institut fur Botanik, Technische Universitat']]
[u'PRDX6 inhibits neurogenesis of neural precursor cells through downregulation of wdfy1 mediated TLR4 signal', ['Mi Hee Park', 'Dong Ju Son', 'Kyoung Tak Nam', 'So Young Kim', 'Sang Yeon Oh', 'Min Ji Song', 'Hyung Ok Chun', 'Tae Hyung Lee', 'Jin Tae Hong'], u'November 7, 2016.', u'Impaired neurogenesis has been associated with brain disorders. The role of peroxiredoxin 6 (PRDX6) in the neurodegenerative diseases is very controversial. To demonstrate the role of PRDX6 in neurogenesis, we compared neurogenesis ability and studied the molecular mechanisms. It was found that the neurogenesis of neural stem cells and expression of the marker protein were lowered in PRDX6 Tg-mice compared with non-tg mice. Moreover, the expression of wdfy1 was dramatically decreased in PRDX6-Tg mice, also, we observed that wdfy1 siRNA decreases the differentiation ability of primary neural stem cells to astrocyte and neuronal cells as well as PC12 cells. However, knockdown of PRDX6 recovered neurogenesis in the brain of PRDX6-Tg mice as well as PC-12 cells. We also showed that TLR4 was dramatically reduced in PRDX6 Tg mice as well as PC-12 cells and PRDX6 overexpression reduced neurogenesis was rescued after treatment of TLR4 siRNA. We further found that reduced TLR4 expression and neurogenesis was reversed in the neuron from PRDX6-Tg mice as well as PC12 cells by introduction of wdfy1 plasmid. Moreover, TLR4 siRNA reduced neurogenesis and wdfy1 expression. This study indicated that PRDX6 inhibits neurogenesis of neural precursor cells through TLR4 dependent downregulation of wdfy1.', u'/content/early/2016/11/07/086371', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'Chungbuk National University']]
[u'Rapid shift in substrate utilization driven by hypothalamic Agrp neurons', ['Joao Paulo Cavalcanti-de-Albuquerque', 'Marcelo R. Zimmer', 'Jeremy Bober', 'Marcelo O. Dietrich'], u'November 7, 2016.', u'Agrp neurons drive feeding. To what extend these neurons participate in the regulation of other homeostatic processes is not well understood. We investigated the role of Agrp neurons in substrate utilization in mice. Activation of Agrp neurons was sufficient to rapidly increase RER and carbohydrate utilization, while decreasing fat utilization. These metabolic changes were linearly correlated with carbohydrates ingested, but not protein or fat ingestion. However, even in the absence of ingestive behaviors, activation of Agrp neurons led to changes in substrate utilization in well-fed mice. These effects were coupled to metabolic shifts towards lipogenesis. Inhibition of fatty acid synthetase (FAS) blunted the effects of Agrp neurons on substrate utilization. Finally, Agrp neurons controlled peripheral metabolism, but not food intake, via \u03b23-adrenergic receptor signaling in fat tissues. These results reveal a novel component of Agrp neuron-mediate metabolism regulation that involves sympathetic activity on fat compartments to shift metabolism towards lipogenesis.', u'/content/early/2016/11/07/086348', [u'Physiology'], [u'Yale University']]
[u'Multidimensional imbalances in cortical circuit activity in Fragile-X Syndrome mice', ["Cian O'Donnell", 'J. Tiago Goncalves', 'Carlos Portera-Cailliau', 'Terrence J Sejnowski'], u'November 7, 2016.', u'A leading theory for multiple brain disorders, such as schizophrenia and autism, is that they arise from developmental imbalances in excitatory and inhibitory (E/I) brain circuitry. However, it is unclear whether this simple 1-dimensional model is sufficiently rich to capture the set of key alterations of neural circuit processing in brain disorders. Here we used a combination of computational modeling and large-scale analysis of in vivo 2-photon Ca2+ imaging data from somatosensory cortex of wild-type and Fmr1 knock-out (KO) mice, a model of Fragile X syndrome, to test the E/I imbalance model. Our main findings were: 1) the E/I imbalance model was not rich enough to capture the alterations in neural activity statistics in Fmr1 KO mice; 2) in a computational model we found greatly varying magnitudes and directions of effects of synaptic and cellular properties on network activity; 3) evidence for opposite changes in circuit properties of Fmr1 KO mice at different stages of development; 4) a reduction in the entropy of circuit activity in young Fmr1 KO mice compared to wild-type, but an opposite increase in adult Fmr1 KO mice. These findings suggest qualitatively new strategies for developing treatments for Fragile-X Syndrome and related disorders.', u'/content/early/2016/11/07/086363', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Bristol;', u'Einstein College of Medicine;', u'University of California Los Angeles;', u'Salk Institute for Biological Studies']]
[u'Odorant cues linked to social immunity induce lateralized antenna stimulation in honey bees (Apis mellifera L.)', ['Alison McAfee', 'Troy F Collins', 'Lufiani L Madilao', 'Leonard J Foster'], u'November 7, 2016.', u'Hygienic behaviour (HB) is a social immunity trait in honey bees (Apis mellifera L.) whereby workers detect, uncap and remove unhealthy brood, improving disease resistance in the colony. This is clearly economically valuable; however, the molecular mechanism behind it is not well understood. The freeze-killed brood (FKB) assay is the conventional method of HB selection, so we compared odour profiles of FKB and live brood. Surprisingly, we found that significantly more brood pheromone (\u03b2-ocimene) was released from FKB. \u03b2-ocimene abundance also positively correlated with HB, suggesting there could be a brood effect contributing to overall hygiene. We found that \u03b2-ocimene stimulated worker antennae in a dose-dependent manner, with the left antennae responding significantly stronger than right antennae in hygienic bees, but not in non-hygienic bees. This suggests that HB depends not only on odour detection, but also lateralization of sensitivity. We also compared odour profiles of Varroa-infested brood to healthy brood and found an overall interactive effect between developmental stage and infestation, but specific odours did not drive these differences. Overall, the data we present here is an important foundation on which to build our understanding the molecular mechanism behind this complex behaviour.', u'/content/early/2016/11/07/086330', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'University of British Columbia']]
