[u'Ghrelin-Reactive Autoantibodies are elevated in Children with Prader-Willi Syndrome', ['Gabrielle Crisp', 'Ohn Nyunt', 'Lisa Chopin', 'Inge Seim', 'Mark Harris', 'Penny Jeffery'], u'December 16, 2016.', u'Prader-Willi Syndrome (PWS) is a complex genetic disorder characterized by developmental and growth abnormalities, insatiable appetite, and excessive eating (hyperphagia). The underlying cause of hyperphagia in PWS is currently unknown, however, elevated levels of the peptide hormone ghrelin is believed to contribute. Recently, ghrelin-reactive autoantibodies (isotype IgG) were identified in non-genetic obesity. These autoantibodies act as ghrelin carrier proteins and potentiate its orexigenic effects. Here, we describe the identification of ghrelin-reactive autoantibodies in a cohort of 16 children with PWS. In comparison to unaffected siblings, autoantibody levels are significantly increased in PWS children. We further show that autoantibody levels are unaffected by food intake, unlike plasma ghrelin which declines postprandially in both groups. Critically, we also demonstrate that the autoantibodies bind the major circulating ghrelin isoforms, unacylated ghrelin, which does not stimulate appetite, and the orexigen acylated ghrelin. In excess, unacylated ghrelin may compete with acylated ghrelin for autoantibody binding. Taken together, this is the first report on ghrelin-reactive antibodies in a pediatric population, and the first to demonstrate that the antibodies do not discriminate between orexigenic and non-orexigenic ghrelin isoforms. Our work suggests that ghrelin autoantibodies can be targeted using non-orexigenic forms of ghrelin, thereby providing a novel therapeutic target for PWS and for obesity in general.', u'/content/early/2016/12/16/093930', [u'Physiology'], [u'Queensland University of Technology;', u'Royal North Shore Hospital;', u"Lady Cilento Children's Hospital"]]
[u'Opposing transcriptional mechanisms regulate Toxoplasma development.', ['Dong-Pyo Hong', 'Joshua B Radke', 'Michael W White'], u'December 16, 2016.', u'The Toxoplasma biology that underlies human chronic infection is developmental conversion of the acute tachyzoite stage into the latent bradyzoite stage.  We investigated the role of two alkaline-stress induced ApiAP2 transcription factors, AP2IV-3 and AP2IX-9, in bradyzoite development.  These factors were expressed in two overlapping waves during bradyzoite development with AP2IX-9 increasing expression earlier than AP2IV-3, which peaked as AP2IX-9 expression was declining.  Disruption of the AP2IX-9 gene enhanced, while deletion of AP2IV-3 gene decreased tissue cyst formation demonstrating these factors have opposite functions in bradyzoite development.  Conversely, conditional overexpression of FKBP-modified of AP2IX-9 or AP2IV-3 with the small molecule Shield 1 had a reciprocal effect on tissue cyst formation confirming the conclusions of the knockout experiments.  The AP2IX-9 repressor and AP2IV-3 activator tissue cyst phenotypes were borne out in gene expression studies that determined many of the same bradyzoite genes were regulated in an opposite manner by these transcription factors.  A common gene target was the canonical bradyzoite marker, BAG1, and mechanistic experiments determined that like AP2IX-9, AP2IV-3 regulates a BAG1 promoter-luciferase reporter and specific binds the BAG1 promoter in parasite chromatin.  Altogether, these results suggest the AP2IX-9 transcriptional repressor and AP2IV-3 transcriptional activator likely compete to control bradyzoite gene expression, which may permit Toxoplasma to better adapt to different tissue environments and select a suitable host cell for long term survival of the dormant tissue cyst.', u'/content/early/2016/12/16/094847', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of South Florida']]
[u'Subgenome dominance in an interspecific hybrid, synthetic allopolyploid, and a 140 year old naturally established neo-allopolyploid monkeyflower.', ['Patrick P Edgar', 'Ronald D Smith', 'Michael R McKain', 'Arielle M Cooley', 'Mario Vallejo-Marin', 'Yaowu Yuan', 'Adam J Bewick', 'Lexiang Ji', 'Adrian E Platts', 'Megan J Bowman', 'Kevin L Childs', 'Robert J Schmitz', 'Gregory D Smith', 'J Chris Pires', 'Joshua R Puzey'], u'December 16, 2016.', u'The importance and applications of polyploidy have long been recognized, from shaping the evolutionary success of flowering plants to improving agricultural productivity. Recent studies have shown that one of the parental subgenomes in ancient polyploids is generally more dominant - having both retained more genes and being more highly expressed - a phenomenon termed subgenome dominance. How quickly one subgenome dominates within a newly formed polyploid, if immediate or after millions of years, and the genomic features that determine which genome dominates remain poorly understood. To investigate the rate of subgenome dominance emergence, we examined gene expression, gene methylation, and transposable element (TE) methylation in a natural less than 140 year old allopolyploid (Mimulus peregrinus), a resynthesized interspecies triploid hybrid (M. robertsii), a resynthesized allopolyploid (M. peregrinus), and diploid progenitors (M. guttatus and M. luteus). We show that subgenome expression dominance occurs instantly following the hybridization of two divergent genomes and that subgenome expression dominance significantly increases over generations. Additionally, CHH methylation levels are significantly reduced in regions near genes and within transposons in the first generation hybrid, intermediate in the resynthesized allopolyploid, and are repatterned differently between the dominant and submissive subgenomes in the natural allopolyploid. Our analyses reveal that the subgenome differences in levels of TE methylation mirror the increase in expression bias observed over the generations following the hybridization. These findings not only provide important insights into genomic and epigenomic shock that occurs following hybridization and polyploid events, but may also contribute to uncovering the mechanistic basis of heterosis and subgenomic dominance.', u'/content/early/2016/12/16/094797', [u'Genomics'], [u'Michigan State University;', u'The College of William and Mary;', u'Donald Danforth Plant Science Center;', u'Whitman College;', u'University of Stirling;', u'University of Connecticut;', u'University of Georgia;', u'McGill University;', u'University of Missouri']]
[u'Screening for the ancient polar bear mitochondrial genome reveals low integration of mitochondrial pseudogenes (numts) in bears', ['Fritjof Lammers', 'Axel Janke', 'Cornelia Rueckle', 'Vera Zizka', 'Maria Anna Nilsson'], u'December 16, 2016.', u'Phylogenetic analyses of nuclear and mitochondrial genomes have shown that polar bears captured the mitochondrial genome of brown bears some 160,00 years ago. This hybridization event likely led to an extinction of the original polar bear mitochondrial genome. However, parts of the mitochondrial DNA occasionally integrates into the nuclear genome, forming pseudogenes called numts (nuclear mitochondrial integrations). Screening the polar bear genome for numts, we identified only 13 such integrations. Analyses of whole-genome sequences from additional polar bears, brown and American black bears as well as the giant panda indicates that the discovered numts entered the bear lineage before the initial ursid radiation some 14 million years ago. Our findings suggests a low integration rate of numts in the bear lineage and a complete loss of the original polar bear mitochondrial genome.', u'/content/early/2016/12/16/094771', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Senckenberg Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre (BiK-F)']]
[u'MR-Base: a platform for systematic causal inference across the phenome using billions of genetic associations', ['Gibran Hemani', 'Jie Zheng', 'Kaitlin H Wade', 'Charles Laurin', 'Benjamin Elsworth', 'Stephen Burgess', 'Jack Bowden', 'Ryan Langdon', 'Vanessa Tan', 'James Yarmolinsky', 'Hashem A. Shihab', 'Nicholas Timpson', 'David M Evans', 'Caroline Relton', 'Richard M Martin', 'George Davey Smith', 'Tom R Gaunt', 'Philip C Haycock'], u'December 16, 2016.', u'Published genetic associations can be used to infer causal relationships between phenotypes, bypassing the need for individual-level genotype or phenotype data. We have curated complete summary data from 1094 genome-wide association studies (GWAS) on diseases and other complex traits into a centralised database, and developed an analytical platform that uses these data to perform Mendelian randomization (MR) tests and sensitivity analyses (MR-Base, http://www.mrbase.org). Combined with curated data of published GWAS hits for phenomic measures, the MR-Base platform enables millions of potential causal relationships to be evaluated. We use the platform to predict the impact of lipid lowering on human health. While our analysis provides evidence that reducing LDL-cholesterol, lipoprotein(a) or triglyceride levels reduce coronary disease risk, it also suggests causal effects on a number of other non-vascular outcomes, indicating potential for adverse-effects or drug repositioning of lipid-lowering therapies.', u'/content/early/2016/12/16/078972', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'University of Bristol;', u'University of Cambridge;', u'University of Bristol & University of Queensland']]
[u'Resolving Biology Beyond the Diffraction Limit with Single-Molecule Localization Microscopy', ['Nafiseh Rafiei', 'Daniel Nino', 'Joshua N Milstein'], u'December 16, 2016.', u'Optical imaging provides a window into the microscopic world, but the level of observable detail is ultimately limited by the wavelength of light being employed. By harnessing the physics of photoswitchable dyes and fluorescent proteins, single-molecule localization microscopy (SMLM) provides a window into the nano-world of biology.  This mini-review article provides a short overview of SMLM and discusses some of its prospects for the future.', u'/content/early/2016/12/16/094839', [u'Biophysics'], [u'University of Toronto']]
[u'Dissecting cancer resistance to therapies with cell-type-specific dynamic logic models', ['Federica Eduati', 'Victoria Doldan-Martelli', 'Bertram Klinger', 'Thomas Cokelaer', 'Anja Sieber', 'Fiona Kogera', 'Mathurin Dorel', 'Mathew J Garnett', 'Nils Bluthgen', 'Julio Saez-Rodriguez'], u'December 16, 2016.', u'Therapies targeting specific molecular processes, in particular kinases, are major strategies to treat cancer. Genomic features are commonly used as biomarkers for drug sensitivity, but our ability to stratify patients based on these features is still limited. As response to kinase inhibitors is a dynamic process affecting largely signal transduction, we investigated the association between cell-specific dynamic signaling pathways and drug sensitivity. We measured 14 phosphoproteins under 43 different perturbed conditions (combination of 5 stimuli and 7 inhibitors) for 14 colorectal cancer cell-lines, and built cell-line-specific dynamic logic models of the underlying signaling network. Model parameters, representing pathway dynamics, were used as features to predict sensitivity to a panel of 27 drugs. This analysis revealed associations between cell-specific signaling pathways and drug sensitivity for 14 of the drugs, 9 of which have no genomic biomarker. Following one of these associations, we validated a drug combination predicted to overcome resistance to MEK inhibitors by co-blockade of GSK3. These results underscore the value of perturbation-based studies to find biomarkers and combination therapies complementing those based on a static genomic characterization.', u'/content/early/2016/12/16/094755', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'European Molecular Biology Laboratory, European Bioinformatics Institute (EMBL-EBI);', u'Universidad Aut\xf3noma de Madrid;', u'Universit\xe4tsmedizin Berlin;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute']]
[u'A statistical test on single-cell data reveals widespread recurrent mutations in tumor evolution', ['Jack Kuipers', 'Katharina Jahn', 'Benjamin J Raphael', 'Niko Beerenwinkel'], u'December 16, 2016.', u'The infinite sites assumption, which states that every genomic position mutates at most once over the lifetime of a tumor, is central to current approaches for reconstructing mutation histories of tumors, but has never been tested explicitly.  We developed a rigorous statistical framework to test the assumption with single-cell sequencing data.  The framework accounts for the high noise and contamination present in such data.  We found strong evidence for recurrent mutations at the same site in 8 out of 9 single-cell sequencing datasets from human tumors.  Six cases involved the loss of earlier mutations, five of which occurred at sites unaffected by large scale genomic deletions.  Two cases exhibited parallel mutation, including the dataset with the strongest evidence of recurrence.  Our results refute the general validity of the infinite sites assumption and indicate that more complex models are needed to adequately quantify intra-tumor heterogeneity.', u'/content/early/2016/12/16/094722', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'D-BSSE, ETH Zurich;', u'Department of Computer Science, Princeton University']]
[u'Genome-wide association study in Collaborative Cross mice revealed a skeletal role for Rhbdf2', ['Roei Levy', 'Clemence Levet', 'eren Cohen', 'Matthew Freeman', 'Richard Mott', 'Fuad Iraqi', 'Yankel Gabet'], u'December 16, 2016.', u'A growing concern that overshadows the increased life expectancy developed countries have been witnessing during the last decades is an accompanying bone loss, which often manifests as osteoporosis. Despite ongoing efforts in utilizing genomic data to fully map the genes responsible for bone remodeling, a detailed picture remains to be desired. Here we took advantage of the phenotypic and genetic diversity innate in Collaborative Cross (CC) mice to identify genetic variants associated with microstructural bone characteristics.\n\tWe gauged several key femoral microarchitecture features of the femoral bone: bone volume fraction (BV/TV), number (Tb.N), thickness (Tb.Th), structural morphometric index (SMI) and spacing (Tb.Sp) of the trabecula, and thickness (Ct.Th) and volumetric bone mineral density (vBMD) of the cortex, to uncover possible genes by which these might be affected.\n\tWe found 5 loci associated with 6 of the traits \u2013 BV/TV, Tb.N (one mutual locus), Tb.Th, Tb.Sp, vBMD, and Ct.Th (one locus for each). The broad-sense heritability of these traits ranged between 50 to 60%. The cortical traits were especially sensitive to confounders, such as batch, month and season. We refined each locus by combining information mined from existing databases with that obtained from the known ancestry of the mice, to shortlist potential candidate genes. \nWe found strong evidence for new candidate genes, in particular, Rhbdf2. Using Rhbdf2 knockout mice, we confirmed its strong influence on bone microarchitecture; Rhbdf2-/- mice exhibit strikingly heightened BV/TV and Tb.N, heightened SMI and Ct.Th, lowered Conn.D and Tb.Sp, while Tb.Th and vBMD were unaffected, compared with wild type mice. High-resolution bone microarchitecture imaging of the CC population enabled us to further dissect the genetic makeup of bone morphology, and demonstrate conclusively that Rhbdf2 reduces the number and volume of the femoral trabecula.', u'/content/early/2016/12/16/094698', [u'Genetics'], [u'Tel aviv university;', u'Dunn School of Pathology, South Parks Road, Oxford;', u'Tel Aviv University;', u'UCL Genetics Institute']]
[u'Genome-wide analysis of ivermectin response by Onchocerca volvulus reveals that genetic drift and soft selective sweeps contribute to loss of drug sensitivity', ['Stephen R Doyle', 'Catherine Bourguinat', 'Hugues C Nana-Djeunga', 'Jonas A Kengne-Ouafo', 'Sebastien D.S. Pion', 'Jean Bopda', 'Joseph Kamgno', 'Samuel Wanji', 'Hua Che', 'Annette C. Kuesel', 'Martin Walker', 'Maria-Gloria Basanez', 'Daniel Boakye', 'Mike Y. Osei-Atweneboana', 'Michel Boussinesq', 'Roger K. Prichard', 'Warwick N. Grant'], u'December 16, 2016.', u"Background:  Treatment of onchocerciasis using mass ivermectin administration has reduced morbidity and transmission throughout Africa and Central/South America. Mass drug administration is likely to exert selection pressure on parasites, and phenotypic and genetic changes in several Onchocerca volvulus populations from Cameroon and Ghana - exposed to more than a decade of regular ivermectin treatment - have raised concern that sub-optimal responses to ivermectin's anti-fecundity effect are becoming more frequent and may spread.  Methodology/Principal Findings: Pooled next generation sequencing (Pool-seq) was used to characterise genetic diversity within and between 108 adult female worms differing in ivermectin treatment history and response. Genome-wide analyses revealed genetic variation that significantly differentiated good responder (GR) and sub-optimal responder (SOR) parasites. These variants were not randomly distributed but clustered in ~31 quantitative trait loci (QTLs), with little overlap in putative QTL position and gene content between countries. Published candidate ivermectin SOR genes were largely absent in these regions; QTLs differentiating GR and SOR worms were enriched for genes in molecular pathways associated with neurotransmission, development, and stress responses. Finally, single worm genotyping demonstrated that geographic isolation and genetic change over time (in the presence of drug exposure) had a significantly greater role in shaping genetic diversity than the evolution of SOR.  Conclusions/Significance: This study is one of the first genome-wide association analyses in a parasitic nematode, and provides insight into the genomics of ivermectin response and population structure of O. volvulus. We argue that ivermectin response is a polygenically-determined quantitative trait in which identical or related molecular pathways but not necessarily individual genes likely determine the extent of ivermectin response in different parasite populations. Furthermore, we propose that genetic drift rather than genetic selection of SOR is the underlying driver of population differentiation, which has significant implications for the emergence and potential spread of SOR within and between these parasite populations.", u'/content/early/2016/12/16/094540', [u'Genomics'], [u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'Institute of Parasitology, McGill University;', u'Centre for Research on Filariasis and other Tropical Diseases (CRFilMT);', u'Research Foundation in Tropical Diseases and the Environment;', u'Institut de Recherche pour le D\xe9veloppement, Universit\xe9 de Montpellier;', u'UNICEF/UNDP/World Bank/WHO Special Programme for Research and Training in Tropical Diseases, WHO;', u'Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology / London Centre for Neglected Tropical Disease Reseach;', u'Noguchi Memorial Institute for Medical Research, University of Ghana;', u'Department of Environmental Biology and Health, CSIR Water Research Institute;', u'Institut de Recherche pour le D\xe9veloppement (IRD);', u'Department of Animal, Plant and Soil Sciences, La Trobe University']]
[u'CORTICO-CORTICAL FEEDBACK CONTROLS SPATIAL SUMMATION IN PRIMATE VISUAL CORTEX', ['Lauri Nurminen', 'Sam Merlin', 'Marym Bijanzadeh', 'Frederick Federer', 'Alessandra Angelucci'], u'December 16, 2016.', u'Our visual perception of the external world relies on neural activity across a hierarchy of visual cortical areas, communicating via complex feedforward-feedback pathways. While feedforward pathways have been a focus of study, the role of the feedback pathway has remained poorly understood. Here we have developed a novel viral vector combination allowing for selective optogenetic inactivation of feedback pathways in the non-human primate brain. We show that even the most fundamental response properties of visual neurons, such as the receptive field size, are regulated by feedback signals from other regions of the visual cortex. Depending on its activity regime, cortico-cortical feedback can regulate receptive field size and contextual modulation of visual responses or the overall response gain of neurons.', u'/content/early/2016/12/16/094680', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Utah']]
[u'Evidence of Late Pleistocene origin of Astyanax mexicanus cavefish', ['Julien Fumey', 'Helene Hinaux', 'Celine Noirot', 'Sylvie Retaux', 'Didier Casane'], u'December 16, 2016.', u'Background: Cavefish populations belonging to the Mexican tetra species Astyanax mexicanus are outstanding models to study the tempo and mode of adaptation to a radical environmental change. They share similar phenotypic changes such as blindness and depigmentation that are the result of independent and convergent evolution. In particular they allow to examine whether their evolution involved the fixation of standing genetic variation and/or de novo mutations. Cavefish populations are currently assigned to two main groups, the so-called "old" and "new" lineages, which would have populated several caves independently and at different times. However, we do not have yet accurate estimations of the time frames of evolution of these populations.\nResults: First, we reanalyzed published mitochondrial DNA and microsatellite polymorphism and we found that these data do not unambiguously support an ancient origin of the old lineage. Second, we identified a large number of single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in transcript sequences of two pools of embryos (Pool-seq) belonging to the "old" Pach\xf3n cave population and a surface population of Texas. Based on the summary statistics that could be computed with these data, we developed a method in order to 1) detect a recently isolated small population and 2) estimate its age. This approach is based on the detection of a transient increase of the neutral substitution rate in such a population. Indeed Pach\xf3n cave population showed more neutral substitutions than the surface population, which could be a signature of its recent origin. Third, when we applied this method to estimate the age of the Pach\xf3n cave population which is considered one of the oldest and most isolated cavefish populations we found that it has been isolated less than 30,000 years, that is during the Late Pleistocene.\nConclusions: Although it is often assumed that Pach\xf3n cavefish population has a very ancient origin, within the range of the late Miocene to the middle Pleistocene, a recent origin of this population is well supported by our analyses of DNA polymorphism as well as by other sources of evidence. It suggests that the many phenotypic changes observed in these cavefish would have mainly involved the fixation of genetic variants present in surface fish populations and within a short period of time.', u'/content/early/2016/12/16/094748', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'EGCE, CNRS Gif;', u'DECA group, Paris-Saclay Institute of Neuroscience, UMR 9197, CNRS;', u'Plateforme Bioinformatique Toulouse, Midi-Pyr\xe9n\xe9es, UBIA, INRA']]
[u'Cryo-EM structure of the ATP-sensitive potassium channel illuminates mechanisms of assembly and gating', ['Gregory M Martin', 'Craig Yoshioka', 'Emily A Rex', 'Jonathan F Fay', 'Qing Xie', 'Matt R Whorton', 'James Z Chen', 'Show-Ling Shyng'], u'December 16, 2016.', u'ATP-sensitive potassium (KATP) channels are metabolic sensors that couple cell energetics to membrane excitability. In pancreatic \u03b2-cells, channels formed by SUR1 and Kir6.2 regulate insulin secretion and are the targets of antidiabetic sulfonylureas. Here, we used cryo-EM to elucidate structural basis of channel assembly and gating. The structure, determined in the presence of ATP and the sulfonylurea glibenclamide, at ~6\xc5 resolution reveals a closed Kir6.2 tetrameric core with four peripheral SUR1s each anchored to a Kir6.2 by its N-terminal transmembrane domain (TMD0). Intricate interactions between TMD0, the loop following TMD0, and Kir6.2 near the proposed PIP2 binding site, and where ATP density is observed, suggest SUR1 may contribute to ATP and PIP2 binding to enhance Kir6.2 sensitivity to both. The SUR1-ABC core is found in an unusual inward-facing conformation whereby the two nucleotide binding domains are misaligned along a two-fold symmetry axis, revealing a possible mechanism by which glibenclamide inhibits channel activity.', u'/content/early/2016/12/16/094649', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'Oregon Health & Science University']]
