[u'The large majority of intergenic sites in bacteria are selectively constrained, even when known regulatory elements are excluded', ['Harry A Thorpe', 'Sion C Bayliss', 'Laurence D Hurst', 'Edward J Feil'], u'August 15, 2016.', u'There are currently no broad estimates of the overall strength and direction of selection operating on intergenic variation in bacteria. Here we address this using large whole genome sequence datasets representing six diverse bacterial species; Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus aureus, Salmonella enterica, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Klebsiella pneumoniae, and Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Excluding M. tuberculosis, we find that a high proportion (62%-79%; mean 70%) of intergenic sites are selectively constrained, relative to synonymous sites. Non-coding RNAs tend to be under stronger selective constraint than promoters, which in turn are typically more constrained than rho-independent terminators. Even when these regulatory elements are excluded, the mean proportion of constrained intergenic sites only falls to 69%; thus our current understanding of the functionality of intergenic regions (IGRs) in bacteria is severely limited. Consistent with a role for positive as well as negative selection on intergenic sites, we present evidence for strong positive selection in Mycobacterium tuberculosis promoters, underlining the key role of regulatory changes as an adaptive mechanism in this highly monomorphic pathogen.', u'/content/early/2016/08/15/069708', [], [u'University of Bath']]
[u'BinSanity: Unsupervised Clustering of Environmental Microbial Assemblies Using Coverage and Affinity Propagation', ['Elaina Graham', 'John Heidelberg', 'Benjamin Tully'], u'August 15, 2016.', u'Metagenomics has become an integral part of defining microbial diversity in various environments. Many ecosystems have characteristically low biomass and few cultured representatives. Linking potential metabolisms to phylogeny in environmental microorganisms is important for interpreting microbial community functions and the impacts these communities have on geochemical cycles. However, with metagenomic studies there is the computational hurdle of binning contigs into phylogenetically related units or putative genomes. Binning methods have been implemented with varying approaches such as k-means clustering, Gaussian mixture models, hierarchical clustering, neural networks, and two-way clustering; however, many of these suffer from biases against low coverage/abundance organisms and closely related taxa/strains. We are introducing a new binning method, BinSanity, that utilizes the clustering algorithm affinity propagation (AP), to cluster assemblies using coverage alone, removing potential composition based biases in clustering contigs, but requires a minimum of two samples. To increase fidelity, a refinement script was developed that uses composition data (tetranucleotide frequency and %G+C content) to refine bins containing multiple source organisms. This separation of composition and coverage based signatures reduces clustering bias for closely related taxa. BinSanity was developed and tested on artificial metagenomes varying in size and complexity. Results indicate that this implementation of AP lead to a higher precision, recall, and Adjusted Rand Index over five commonly implemented methods. When tested on a previously published infant gut metagenome, BinSanity generated high completion and low redundancy bins corresponding with the published metagenome-assembled genomes.', u'/content/early/2016/08/15/069567', [], [u'University of Southern California']]
[u'Transcriptomic Signatures for Ovulation in Vertebrates', ['Dongteng Liu', 'Michael Brewer', 'Shixi Chen', 'Wanshu Hong', 'Yong Zhu'], u'August 15, 2016.', u'Recently, we found anovulation in nuclear progestin receptor (Pgr) knockout (Pgr-KO) zebrafish, which offers a new model for examining Pgr regulated genes and pathways that are important for ovulation and fertility. In this study, we examined expression of all transcripts using RNA-Seq in pre-ovulatory follicular cells collected after the final oocyte maturation, but prior to ovulation, from wild-type (WT) or Pgr-KO fish. Differential expression analysis revealed 2,888 genes significantly differentially expressed between WT and Pgr-KO fish. Among those, 1,230 gene transcripts were significantly more expressed, while 1,658 genes were significantly less expressed in WT than those in Pgr-KO. We then retrieved and compared transcriptional data from online databases and further identified 661 conserved genes in fish, mice, and humans, that showed similar levels of  high (283 genes) or low (387) expression in animals that were ovulating compared to those with no ovulation. For the first time, ovulatory genes and their involved biological processes and pathways were also visualized using Enrichment Map and Cytoscape. Intriguingly, enrichment analysis indicated the genes with higher expression were involved in multiple ovulatory pathways and processes such as inflammatory response, angiogenesis, cytokine production, cell migration, chemotaxis, MAPK, focal adhesion, and cytoskeleton reorganization. In contrast, the genes with lower expression were mainly involved DNA replication, DNA repair, DNA methylation, RNA processing, telomere maintenance, spindle assembling, nuclear acid transport, catabolic processes, nuclear and cell division. Our results indicate that a large set of genes (>3,000) are differentially regulated in the follicular cells in zebrafish prior to ovulation, terminating programs including growth and proliferation, and beginning processes including the inflammatory response and apoptosis. Further studies are required to establish relationships among these genes and an ovulatory circuit in zebrafish model.', u'/content/early/2016/08/15/069716', [], [u'Xiamen University;', u'East Carolina University']]
[u'Statistical Association Mapping of Population-Structured Genetic Data', ['Amir Najafi', 'Sepehr Janghorbani', 'Seyed Abolfazl Motahari', 'Emad Fatemizadeh'], u'August 15, 2016.', u'Association mapping of genetic diseases has attracted extensive research interest during the recent years. However, most of the methodologies introduced so far suffer from spurious inference of the disease-causing sites due to population inhomogeneities. In this paper, we introduce a statistical framework to compensate for this shortcoming by equipping the current methodologies with a state-of-the-art clustering algorithm being widely used in population genetics applications. The proposed framework jointly infers  the disease causal factors and the hidden population structures. In this regard, a Markov  Chain-Monte Carlo (MCMC) procedure has been employed to assess the posterior probability distribution of the model parameters. We have implemented our proposed framework on a software package whose performance is extensively evaluated on a number of synthetic datasets, and compared to some of the well-known existing methods such as STRUCTURE. It has been shown that in extreme scenarios, up to 10-15% of improvement in the inference accuracy is achieved with a moderate increase in computational complexity.', u'/content/early/2016/08/15/069658', [], [u'Sharif University of Technology']]
[u'scater: pre-processing, quality control, normalisation and visualisation of single-cell RNA-seq data in R', ['Davis J McCarthy', 'Kieran R Campbell', 'Aaron T L Lun', 'Quin F Wills'], u'August 15, 2016.', u'Motivation: Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) is increasingly used to study gene expression at the level of individual cells. However, preparing raw sequence data for further analysis is not a straightforward process. Biases, artifacts, and other sources of unwanted variation are present in the data, requiring substantial time and effort to be spent on pre-processing, quality control (QC) and normalisation.\n\nResults: We have developed the R/Bioconductor package scater to facilitate rigorous pre-processing, quality control, normalisation and visualisation of scRNA-seq data. The package provides a convenient, flexible workflow to process raw sequencing reads into a high-quality expression dataset ready for downstream analysis. scater provides a rich suite of plotting tools for single-cell data and a flexible data structure that is compatible with existing tools and can be used as infrastructure for future software development. \n\nAvailability: The open-source code, along with installation instructions, vignettes and case studies, is available through Bioconductor at http://bioconductor.org/packages/scater.\n\nSupplementary information: Supplementary material is available online at bioRxiv accompanying this manuscript, and all materials required to reproduce the results presented in this paper are available at dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.60139.', u'/content/early/2016/08/15/069633', [], [u'European Molecular Biology Laboratory - European Bioinformatics Institute (EMBL-EBI);', u'University of Oxford;', u'Cancer Research UK Cambridge Institute']]
[u'Memory Replay in Balanced Recurrent Networks', ['Nikolay Chenkov', 'Henning Sprekeler', 'Richard Kempter'], u'August 15, 2016.', u'Complex patterns of neural activity appear during up-states in the neocortex and sharp waves in the hippocampus, including sequences that resemble those during prior behavioral experience. The mechanisms underlying this replay are not well understood. How can small synaptic footprints engraved by experience control large-scale network activity during memory retrieval and consolidation? We hypothesize that sparse and weak synaptic connectivity between Hebbian assemblies are boosted by pre-existing recurrent connectivity within them. To investigate this idea, we connect sequences of assemblies in randomly connected spiking neuronal networks with a balance of excitation and inhibition. Simulations and analytical calculations show that recurrent connections within assemblies allow for a fast amplification of signals that indeed reduces the required number of inter-assembly connections. Replay can be evoked by\nsmall sensory-like cues or emerge spontaneously by activity fluctuations. Global--potentially neuromodulatory--alterations of neuronal excitability can switch between network states that favor retrieval and consolidation.', u'/content/early/2016/08/15/069641', [], [u'Institute for Theoretical Biology, Humboldt-Universitaet zu Berlin;', u'Department of Software Engineering and Theoretical Computer Science, Technische Universitaet Berli']]
[u'Fast, scalable prediction of deleterious noncoding variants from functional and population genomic data', ['Yi-Fei Huang', 'Brad Gulko', 'Adam Siepel'], u'August 15, 2016.', u'Across many species, a large fraction of genetic variants that influence phenotypes of interest is located outside of protein-coding genes, yet existing methods for identifying such variants have poor predictive power. Here, we introduce a new computational method, called LINSIGHT, that substantially improves the prediction of noncoding nucleotide sites at which mutations are likely to have deleterious fitness consequences, and which therefore are likely to be phenotypically important. LINSIGHT combines a simple neural network for functional genomic data with a probabilistic model of molecular evolution. The method is fast and highly scalable, enabling it to exploit the "Big Data" available in modern genomics. We show that LINSIGHT outperforms the best available methods in identifying human noncoding variants associated with inherited diseases. In addition, we apply LINSIGHT to an atlas of human enhancers and show that the fitness consequences at enhancers depend on cell-type, tissue specificity, and constraints at associated promoters.', u'/content/early/2016/08/15/069682', [], [u'Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory;', u'Cornell University']]
[u'One-cell Doubling Evaluation by Living Arrays of Yeast, ODELAY!', ['Thurston Herricks', 'David J Dilworth', 'Fred D Mast', 'Song Li', 'Jennifer J Smith', 'Alexander V Ratushny', 'John D Aitchison'], u'August 15, 2016.', u'Cell growth is a complex phenotype widely used in systems biology to gauge the impact of genetic and environmental perturbations. Due to the magnitude of genome-wide studies, resolution is often sacrificed in favor of throughput, creating a demand for scalable, time-resolved, quantitative methods of growth assessment. We present ODELAY (One-cell Doubling Evaluation by Living Arrays of Yeast), an automated and scalable growth analysis platform. High measurement density and single cell resolution provide a powerful tool for large-scale multiparameter growth analysis based on the modeling of microcolony expansion on solid media. Pioneered in yeast but applicable to other colony forming organisms, ODELAY extracts the three key growth parameters (lag time, doubling time, and carrying capacity) that define microcolony expansion from single cells, simultaneously permitting the assessment of population heterogeneity. The utility of ODELAY is illustrated using yeast mutants, revealing a spectrum of phenotypes arising from single and combinatorial growth parameter perturbations.', u'/content/early/2016/08/15/069724', [], [u'Institute for Systems Biology, United States']]
[u'Gene mapping of nine agronomic traits and genome assembly by resequencing a foxtail millet RIL population', ['Xuemei NI', 'Qiuju Xia', 'Shu Cheng', 'Hui Li', 'Guangyu Fan', 'Houbao Zhang', 'Tao Guo', 'Ping Huang', 'Haitao Xiang', 'Qingchun Chen', 'Ning Li', 'Hongfeng Zou', 'Xuemei Cai', 'Xuejing Lei', 'Xiaoming Wang', 'Chengshu Zhou', 'Zhihai Zhao', 'Gengyun Zhang', 'Zhiwu Quan'], u'August 15, 2016.', u'Foxtail millet (Setaria italica) provides food and fodder in semi-arid regions and infertile land. Resequencing of 184 foxtail millet recombinant inbred lines (RILs) was carried out to aid essential research on foxtail millet improvement. Bin map were constructed based on the RILs recombination data. By anchoring some unseated scaffolds and filling gaps, we update two original millet reference genomes Zhanggu and Yugu to produce second editions. Gene mapping of nine agronomic traits were done based on this RIL population. The genome resequencing and QTL mapping provided important tools for foxtail millet research and breeding. Resequencing of the RILs could also provide an effective way for high quantity genome assembly and gene identification.', u'/content/early/2016/08/15/069625', [u'Genomics'], [u'BGI-Shenzhen;', u'Zhangjiakou Academy of Agricultural Science, China']]
[u'Frank-Starling law and Bowditch phenomenon may have the common theoretical grounds', ['Yuri Kamnev'], u'August 15, 2016.', u'Formalized description of heterometric and homometric regulation was obtained while modeling of circulation on the basis of several principles; the leading one is defined as follows: concept of circulation presumes that the part of pressure which ventricle produces for propelling of blood must be left, as guaranteed part, for producing of deformation of the next ventricular filling. The relationship between the force of contraction, F, and linear deformation, L, was deduces as function F = f(L2) which does not deny approximation to direct proportionality at the operating region of Frank-Starling law (ascending limb cut out from parabola). Another function determines the force of contraction when the sizes of deformation drop below the domain of Frank-Starling function: F = f(1/tsystole), where tsystole is the duration of systole. Bowditch staircase is explained as repeated (cyclic) transitions from one function to another because a resting muscle (condition of Bowditch experiment) can be equalized with too small deformations (below the limit of domain of Frank-Starling function).', u'/content/early/2016/08/15/069609', [u'Physiology'], [u'private initiative']]
[u'Genome-scale rates of evolutionary change in bacteria', ['Sebastian Duchene', 'Kathryn E Holt', 'Francois-Xavier Weill', 'Simon Le Hello', 'Jane Hawkey', 'David J Edwards', 'Mathieu Fourment', 'Edward C Holmes'], u'August 15, 2016.', u'Estimating the rates at which bacterial genomes evolve is critical to understanding major evolutionary and ecological processes such as disease emergence, long-term host-pathogen associations, and short-term transmission patterns. The surge in bacterial genomic data sets provides a new opportunity to estimate these rates and reveal the factors that shape bacterial evolutionary dynamics. For many organisms estimates of evolutionary rate display an inverse association with the time-scale over which the data are sampled. However, this relationship remains unexplored in bacteria due to the difficulty in estimating genome-wide evolutionary rates, which are impacted by the extent of temporal structure in the data and the prevalence of recombination. We collected 36 whole genome sequence data sets from 16 species of bacterial pathogens to systematically estimate and compare their evolutionary rates and assess the extent of temporal structure in the absence of recombination. The majority (28/36) of data sets possessed sufficient clock-like structure to robustly estimate evolutionary rates. However, in some species reliable estimates were not possible even with \u201cancient DNA\u201d data sampled over many centuries, suggesting that they evolve very slowly or that they display extensive rate variation among lineages. The robustly estimated evolutionary rates spanned several orders of magnitude, from 10-6 to 10-8 nucleotide substitutions site-1 year-1. This variation was largely attributable to sampling time, which was strongly negatively associated with estimated evolutionary rates, with this relationship best described by an exponential decay curve. To avoid potential estimation biases such time-dependency should be considered when inferring evolutionary time-scales in bacteria.', u'/content/early/2016/08/15/069492', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'The University of Melbourne;', u'Institut Pasteur;', u'The University of Sydney;', u'University of Sydney']]
[u'Changes in brain morphology and working memory capacity over childhood', ['Joe Bathelt', 'Susan Elizabeth Gathercole', 'Amy Johnson', 'Duncan Edward Astle'], u'August 15, 2016.', u'Developmental improvements in working memory are important in the acquisition of new skills, like reading and maths. Current accounts of the brain systems supporting working memory rarely take development into account. However, understanding the development of these skills, and in turn where this development can go awry, will require more sophsiticated neuropsychological accounts that fully consider the role of development. The current study investigated how structural brain correlates of components of the working memory system change over developmental time. Verbal and visuospatial short-term and working memory were assessed in 153 children between 6 and 16 years and latent components of the working memory system were derived using principal component analysis. Further, fractional anisotropy and cortical thickness maps were derived from T1-weighted and diffusion-weighted MRI and processed using eigenanatomy decomposition, an advanced dimensionality reduction method for neuroimaging data. We were then able to explore how the structural brain correlates of working memory gradually shifted across childhood. Regression modelling indicated greater involvement of the corpus callosum and posterior temporal white matter in younger children for performance associated with the executive part of the working memory system, while thickness of the occipitotemporal cortex was more predictive in older children. These findings are consistent with an account in which increasing specialisation leads to shifts in the contribution of neural substrates over developmental time, from early reliance on a distributed system supported by long-range connections to later reliance on specialised local circuitry. Furthemore, our findings emphasise the importance of taking development into account when considering the neural systems that support complex cognitive skills, like working memory.', u'/content/early/2016/08/15/069617', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'MRC Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit']]
[u'The Detailed 3D Multi-Loop Aggregate/Rosette Chromatin Architecture and Functional Dynamic Organization of the Human and Mouse Genomes', ['Tobias Aurelius Knoch', 'Malte Wachsmuth', 'Nick Kepper', 'Michael Lesnussa', 'Anis Abuseiris', 'A. M. Ali Imam', 'Petros Kolovos', 'Jessica Zuin', 'Christel E. M. Kockx', 'Rutger W. W. Brouwer', 'Harmen J. G. van de Werken', 'Wilfred F. J. van IJken', 'Kerstin S. Wendt', 'Frank G. Grosveld'], u'August 15, 2016.', u'The dynamic three-dimensional chromatin architecture of genomes and its co-evolutionary connection to its function - the storage, expression, and replication of genetic information - is still one of the central issues in biology. Here, we describe the much debated 3D-architecture of the human and mouse genomes from the nucleosomal to the megabase pair level by a novel approach combining selective high-throughput high-resolution chromosomal interaction capture (T2C), polymer simulations, and scaling analysis of the 3D-architecture and the DNA sequence: The genome is compacted into a chromatin quasi-fibre with ~5+-1 nucleosomes/11nm, folded into stable ~30-100 kbp loops forming stable loop aggregates/rosettes connected by similar sized linkers. Minor but significant variations in the architecture are seen between cell types/functional states. The architecture and the DNA sequence show very similar fine-structured multi-scaling behaviour confirming their co-evolution and the above. This architecture, its dynamics, and accessibility balance stability and flexibility ensuring genome integrity and variation enabling gene expression/regulation by self-organization of (in)active units already in proximity. Our results agree with the heuristics of the field and allow "architectural sequencing" at a genome mechanics level to understand the inseparable systems genomic properties.', u'/content/early/2016/08/15/064642', [u'Genomics'], [u'Biophysical Genomics, Dept. Cell Biology & Genetics, Erasmus Medical Center;', u'Cell Biology & Biophysics Unit, European Molecular Biology Laboratory;', u'Cell Biology, Dept. Cell Biology & Genetics, Erasmus MC;', u'Cohesin in Chromatin Structure and Gene Regulation, Dept. Cell Biology & Genetics, Erasmus MC;', u'Center for Biomics, Dept. Cell Biology & Genetics, Erasmus MC']]
[u'Genome-wide analysis of lncRNAs and mRNAs expression during the differentiation of abdominal preadipocytes in chicken', ['Tao Zhang', 'Xiangqian Zhang', 'Kunpeng Han', 'Genxi Zhang', 'Jinyu Wang', 'Kaizhou Xie', 'Qian Xue'], u'August 15, 2016.', u'Abstract: lncRNAs regulate metabolic tissue development and function, including adipogenesis. However, little is known about the function and profile of lncRNAs in preadipocytes differentiation of chicken. Here, we identified lncRNAs in preadipocytes of different differentiation stages by RNA-sequencing using Jinghai Yellow chicken. A total of 1,300,074,528 clean reads and 27,023 lncRNAs were obtained from twenty samples. 3095 genes (1,336 lncRNAs and 1,759 mRNAs) were differentially expressed among different stages, of which the number of DEGs decreased with the differentiation, demonstrating that the early stage might be most important for chicken preadipocytes differentiation. Furthermore, 3,095 DEGs were clustered into 8 clusters with their expression patterns by K-means clustering. We identified six stage-specific modules related to A0, A2 and A6 stages using weighted co-expression network analysis. Many well-known/novel pathways associated with preadipocytes differentiation were found. We also identified highly connected genes in each module and visualized them by cytoscape. Many well-known genes related to preadipocytes differentiation were found such as IGFBP2 and JUN. Yet, the majority of high connected genes were unknown in chicken preadipocytes. This study provides a valuable resource for chicken lncRNA study and contributes to batter understanding the biology of preadipocytes differentiation in chicken.', u'/content/early/2016/08/15/069591', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Yangzhou University;', u'Yanghzou University']]
