[u'Assessment of single cell RNA-seq normalization methods', ['Bo Ding', 'Lina Zheng', 'Wei Wang'], u'July 17, 2016.', u'We have assessed the performance of seven normalization methods for single cell RNA-seq using data generated from dilution of RNA samples. Our analyses showed that methods considering spike-in ERCC RNA molecules significantly outperformed those not considering ERCCs. This work provides a guidance of selecting normalization methods to remove technical noise in single cell RNA-seq data.', u'/content/early/2016/07/17/064329', [], [u'University of California, San Diego']]
[u'Specific effect of dopamine partial agonist on counterfactual learning: evidence from Gilles de la Tourette syndrome', ['Alexandre Salvador', 'Yulia Worbe', 'Cecile Delorme', 'Giorgio Coricelli', 'Raphael Gaillard', 'Trevor W Robbins', 'Andreas Hartmann', 'Stefano Palminteri'], u'July 17, 2016.', u'The dopamine partial agonist aripiprazole is increasingly used to treat pathologies for which other antipsychotics are indicated, as it displays fewer side effects, such as sedation and depression-like symptoms, compared to other dopamine receptor antagonists.  Previously, we showed that aripiprazole may protect motivational function, by preserving reinforcement-related signals used to sustain reward-maximisation behaviour in a simple action-outcome learning task. However, the effect of aripripazole on more abstract facets of human reinforcement learning, such as learning from the hypothethical outcomes of alternative course of actions (counterfactual learning), is unknown. \nTo test the influence of aripripazole on counterfactual learning, we administrated to two groups of Gilles de la Tourette (GTS) patients (unmedicated and under aripiprazole mono-therapy) and to healthy subjects a reinforcement-learning task that involves both direct learning from obtained outcomes and indirect learning from previous outcomes.  We replicated a previous finding showing that aripiprazole does not affect direct learning. We also found that, whereas learning performance improved in presence of counterfactual feedback in both healthy controls and unmedicated GTS, this was not the case in aripiprazole-medicated GTS.  Our results suggest that, whereas aripiprazole preserves direct learning of action-outcome associations, it may impair more complex inferential processes such as counterfactual learning.', u'/content/early/2016/07/17/064345', [], [u'Laboratoire de Neurosciences Cognitives, Ecole Normale Superieure, Paris, FR;', u'Institut du Cerveau et de la Moelle epiniere, Hopital de la Pitie-Salpetriere, Paris, FR;', u'Departement of Economics, University of Southern California, USA;', u'Centre de Psychiatrie et Neuroscience, Hopital Sainte Anne, Paris, FR;', u'Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Inistitute, Cambridge, UK']]
[u'The mitotic spindle in the one-cell C. elegans embryo is positioned with high precision and stability', ['Jacques Pecreaux', 'Stephanie Redemann', 'Zahraa Alayan', 'Benjamin Mercat', 'Sylvain Pastezeur', 'Carlos Garzon Coral', 'Anthony A Hyman', 'Jonathon Howard'], u'July 17, 2016.', u'Precise positioning of the mitotic spindle is important for specifying the plane of cell division, which in turn determines how the cytoplasmic contents of the mother cell are partitioned into the daughter cells, and how the daughters are positioned within the tissue. During metaphase in the early C. elegans embryo, the spindle is aligned and centered on the anterior-posterior axis by a microtubule-dependent machinery that exerts restoring forces when the spindle is displaced from the center. To investigate the accuracy and stability of centering, we tracked the position and orientation of the mitotic spindle during the first cell division with high temporal and spatial resolution. We found that the precision is remarkably high: the cell-to-cell variation in the transverse position of the center of the spindle during metaphase, as measured by the standard deviation, was only 1.5% of the length of the short axis of the cell. Spindle position is also very stable: the standard deviation of the fluctuations in transverse spindle position during metaphase was only 0.5% of the short axis of the cell. Assuming that stability is limited by number fluctuations, we infer that the centering machinery has a large number of independent force-generating units, on the order of one thousand, consistent with the several thousand of astral microtubules in these cells. Astral microtubules grow out from the two spindle poles, contact and push against the cell cortex, and then shrink back shortly thereafter. The high stability of centering can be accounted for quantitatively if the astral microtubules buckle as they exert compressive, pushing forces onto the cortex. We thus propose that the large number of microtubules in the asters provides a highly precise mechanism for positioning the spindle while its assembly is completed during metaphase prior to the onset of anaphase.', u'/content/early/2016/07/17/063529', [], [u'IGDR UMR 6290 CNRS / Univ. Rennes 1;', u'Medizinisch Theoretisches Zentrum (MTZ), Technical University of Dresden;', u'MPI-CBG, Desden;', u'Department of Molecular Biophysics & Biochemistry, Yale University']]
[u'Comparison of semi-automated hippocampal subfield segmentation methods in a pediatric sample', ['Margaret L Schlichting', 'Michael L Mack', 'Katharine F Guarino', 'Alison R Preston'], u'July 17, 2016.', u'Episodic memory function has been shown to depend critically on the hippocampus. This region is made up of a number of subfields, which differ in both cytoarchitectural features and functional roles in the mature brain. Recent neuroimaging work in children and adolescents has suggested that these regions may undergo different developmental trajectories--a fact that has important implications for how we think about learning and memory processes in these populations. Despite the growing research interest in hippocampal structure and function at the subfield level in healthy young adults, comparatively fewer studies have been carried out looking at subfield development. One barrier to studying these questions has been that manual segmentation of hippocampal subfields--considered by many to be the "gold standard" approach for defining these regions--is laborious and can be infeasible for large cross-sectional or longitudinal studies of cognitive development. Moreover, manual segmentation requires some subjectivity and is not impervious to bias or error. In a developmental sample of individuals spanning 6-30 years, we compared the performance of two semi-automated segmentation approaches, Advanced Normalization Tools (ANTs) and Automated Segmentation of Hippocampal Subfields (ASHS), to manual subfield delineation on each individual by a single expert rater. Across several quantitative metrics, we found negligible differences in subfield reliability across the child, adolescent, and adult age groups, suggesting that these methods can be reliability applied to developmental studies. We conclude that ASHS outperforms ANTs overall, and is thus preferable for analyses carried out in individual subject space. However, we underscore that ANTs is also acceptable, and may be well-suited for analyses requiring normalization to a single group template (e.g., voxelwise analyses across a wide age range). Previous work has validated the use of such methods in healthy young adults, as well as several special populations such as older adults and those suffering from mild cognitive impairment. Our results extend these previous findings to show that ASHS and ANTs can also be used in pediatric populations as young as six.', u'/content/early/2016/07/17/064303', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'The University of Texas at Austin']]
[u'Stable C. elegans chromatin domains separate broadly expressed and developmentally regulated genes', ['Kenneth J Evans', 'Ni Huang', 'Przemyslaw Stempor', 'Michael A Chesney', 'Thomas A Down', 'Julie Ahringer'], u'July 17, 2016.', u'Eukaryotic genomes are organized into domains of differing structure and activity.  There is evidence that the domain organization of the genome regulates its activity, yet our understanding of domain properties and the factors that influence their formation is poor.  Here we use chromatin state analyses in early embryos and L3 larvae to investigate genome domain organization and its regulation in C. elegans.  At both stages we find that the genome is organized into extended chromatin domains of high or low gene activity defined by different subsets of states, and enriched for H3K36me3 or H3K27me3 respectively. The border regions between domains contain large intergenic regions and a high density of transcription factor binding, suggesting a role for transcription regulation in separating chromatin domains. Despite the differences in cell types, overall domain organization is remarkably similar in early embryos and L3 larvae, with conservation of 85% of domain border positions.  Most genes in high activity domains are expressed in the germ line and broadly across cell types, whereas low activity domains are enriched for genes that are developmentally regulated.  We find that domains are regulated by the germ line H3K36 methyltransferase MES-4 and that border regions show striking remodeling of H3K27me1, supporting roles for H3K36 and H3K27 methylation in regulating domain structure. Our analyses of C. elegans chromatin domain structure show that genes are organized by type into domains that have differing modes of regulation.', u'/content/early/2016/07/17/063990', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Cambridge']]
[u'H&E-stained Whole Slide Deep Learning Predicts SPOP Mutation State in Prostate Cancer', ['Andrew J Schaumberg', 'Mark A Rubin', 'Thomas J Fuchs'], u'July 17, 2016.', u"The genetic basis of histological phenotype is well known in molecular pathology, such as CDH1 loss leading to a lobular rather than ductal phenotype in breast cancer.\n\nUnfortunately, these phenotypes are qualitative.  Moreover, a single genetic alteration may evidence multiple and non-unique histologic features, such as TMPRSS2-ERG fusion giving rise to macronuclei, blue-tinged mucin, and cribriform pattern.  A quantitative model to genetically interpret the histology is desirable to guide downstream immunohistochemistry, genomics, and precision medicine.\n\nWe constructed a statistical model that predicts whether or not SPOP is mutated in prostate cancer, given only the digital whole slide after standard hematoxylin and eosin [H&E] staining.\n\nUsing a cohort of 177 prostate cancer patients where 20 had mutant SPOP, we trained multiple ensembles of residual networks, accurately distinguishing SPOP mutant from SPOP wild type patients.\nTo our knowledge, this is the first statistical model to predict a genetic mutation in cancer directly from the patient's digitized H&E-stained whole microscope slide.", u'/content/early/2016/07/17/064279', [u'Pathology'], [u'Weill Cornell Graduate School of Medical Sciences;', u'Weill Cornell Medical College;', u'Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center']]
[u"Bayesian model reveals latent atrophy factors with dissociable cognitive trajectories in Alzheimer's disease", ['Xiuming Zhang', 'Elizabeth Mormino', 'Nanbo Sun', 'Reisa Sperling', 'Mert Sabuncu', 'B.T. Thomas Yeo'], u'July 17, 2016.', u"We employed a data-driven Bayesian model to automatically identify distinct latent factors of overlapping atrophy patterns from voxelwise structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of late-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD) dementia patients. Our approach estimated the extent to which multiple distinct atrophy patterns were expressed within each participant rather than assuming that each participant expressed a single atrophy factor. The model revealed a temporal atrophy factor (medial temporal cortex, hippocampus and amygdala), a subcortical atrophy factor (striatum, thalamus and cerebellum), and a cortical atrophy factor (frontal, parietal, lateral temporal and lateral occipital cortices). To explore the influence of each factor in early AD, atrophy factor compositions were inferred in beta-amyloid-positive (A\u03b2+) mild cognitively impaired\n(MCI) and cognitively normal (CN) participants. All three factors were associated with memory decline across the entire clinical spectrum, whereas the cortical factor was associated with executive function decline in A\u03b2+ MCI participants and AD dementia patients. Direct comparison between factors revealed that the temporal factor showed the strongest association with memory, while the cortical factor showed the strongest association with executive function. The subcortical factor was associated with the slowest decline for both memory and executive function compared to temporal and cortical factors. These results suggest that distinct patterns of atrophy influence decline across different cognitive domains. Quantification of this heterogeneity may enable the computation of individual-level predictions relevant for disease monitoring and customized therapies. Code from this manuscript is publicly available at link_to_be_added.", u'/content/early/2016/07/17/064295', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'National University of Singapore;', u'Harvard Medical School']]
