[u'Intrinsic functional architecture of the macaque dorsal and ventral lateral frontal cortex', ['Alexandros Goulas', 'Peter Stiers', 'R. Matthew Hutchison', 'Stefan Everling', 'Michael Petrides', 'Daniel S Margulies'], u'June 13, 2016.', u'Investigations of the cellular and connectional organization of the lateral frontal cortex (LFC) of the macaque monkey provide indispensable knowledge for generating hypotheses about the human LFC. However, despite numerous investigations, there are still debates on the organization of this brain region. In vivo neuroimaging techniques such as resting-state fMRI can be used to define the functional circuitry of brain areas producing results largely consistent with gold-standard invasive tract-tracing techniques and offering the opportunity for cross-species comparison within the same modality. Our results using resting-state fMRI from macaque monkeys to uncover the intrinsic functional architecture of the LFC corroborate previous findings and inform current debates. Specifically, we show that i) the region in the midline and anterior to the superior arcuate sulcus is divided in two areas separated by the posterior supraprincipal dimple; ii) the cytoarchitectonically defined area 6DC/F2 contains two connectional divisions; and, iii) a distinct area occupies the cortex around the spur of the arcuate, updating what was previously proposed to be the border between dorsal and ventral motor/premotor areas. Within the ventral LFC specifically, the derived parcellation clearly suggests the presence of distinct areas i) with a somatomotor/orofacial connectional signature (putative area 44), ii) with an occulomotor connectional signature (putative frontal eye fields), and iii) premotor areas possibly hosting laryngeal and arm representations. Our results illustrate in detail the intrinsic functional architecture of the macaque LFC, thus providing valuable evidence for debates on its organization.', u'/content/early/2016/06/13/058776', [], [u'Max Planck Research Group for Neuroanatomy and Connectivity, Max Planck Institute for Human Cognitiv;', u'Department of Neuropsychology and Psychopharmacology, Maastricht University;', u'Center for Brain Sciences, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA;', u'Robarts Research Institute, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada;', u'Cognitive Neuroscience Unit, Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill University']]
[u'Operant Behavior in Model Systems', ['Bjoern Brembs'], u'June 13, 2016.', u'In contrast to the long-held assumption that the organization of behavior is best characterized as the perception of a sensory stimulus followed by appropriate response (i.e., "sensorimotor hypothesis"), recent converging evidence from multiple systems and fields of study instead suggests that both ancestral and extant general brain function is best described in operant terms. Rather than specifying precise behaviors, sensory information - if at all present - interacts with ongoing neural activity to instruct the organism which type of spontaneous, exploratory behavior to generate. Evaluating the ensuing reafferent feedback modifies the nervous system such that ongoing neural activity patterns become biased towards activity that has generated increased appetitive and decreased aversive feedback in the past. The neurobiological mechanisms underlying both the exploratory, spontaneous behaviors as well as those underlying the modifications caused by the feedback are becoming increasingly understood, even on a molecular level. It is straightforward to hypothesize that the constant interaction between ongoing neural activity and the incoming sensory stream allows the organism to balance behavioral flexibility with efficiency to accomplish adaptive behavioral choice in an often unpredictably changing environment.', u'/content/early/2016/06/13/058719', [], [u'Universitaet Regensburg']]
[u'Leveraging Functional Annotations in Genetic Risk Prediction for Human Complex Diseases', ['Yiming Hu', 'Qiongshi Lu', 'Ryan Powles', 'Xinwei Yao', 'Can Yang', 'Fang Fang', 'Xinran Xu', 'Hongyu Zhao'], u'June 13, 2016.', u'Genome wide association studies have identified numerous regions in the genome associated with hundreds of human diseases. Building accurate genetic risk prediction models from these data will have great impacts on disease prevention and treatment strategies. However, prediction accuracy remains moderate for most diseases, which is largely due to the challenges in identifying all the disease-associated variants and accurately estimating their effect sizes. We introduce AnnoPred, a principled framework that incorporates diverse functional annotation data to improve risk prediction accuracy, and demonstrate its performance on multiple human complex diseases.', u'/content/early/2016/06/13/058768', [], [u'Yale University;', u'Hong Kong Baptist University']]
[u'Lazarus effects: the frequency and genetic causes of Escherichia coli population recovery under lethal heat stress', ['Shaun M Hug', 'Brandon Gaut'], u'June 13, 2016.', u'Sometimes populations crash and yet recover before being lost completely.  Such recoveries have been observed incidentally in evolution experiments using Escherichia coli, and this phenomenon has been termed the \u201cLazarus effect.\u201d  To investigate how often recovery occurs and the genetic changes that drive it, we evolved ~300 populations of E. coli at lethally high temperatures (43.0\xb0) for five days and sequenced the genomes of recovered populations.  Our results revealed that the Lazarus effect is uncommon, but frequent enough, at ~9% of populations, to be a potent source of evolutionary innovation. Population sequencing uncovered a set of mutations adaptive to lethal 43.0\xb0C that were mostly distinct from those that were beneficial at a high but nonlethal temperature (42.2\xb0).  Mutations within two operons\u2014the heat shock hslUV operon and the RNA polymerase rpoBC operon\u2014drove adaptation to lethal temperature.  Mutations in hslUV exhibited little antagonistic pleiotropy at 37.0\xb0C and may have arisen neutrally prior to subjection to lethal temperature.  In contrast, rpoBC mutations provided greater fitness benefits than hslUV mutants, but were less prevalent and caused stronger fitness tradeoffs at lower temperatures.  Recovered populations fixed mutations in only one operon or the other, but not both, indicating that epistatic interactions between beneficial mutations were important even at the earliest stages of adaptation.', u'/content/early/2016/06/13/058479', [], [u'UC Irvine, United States;', u'University of California, Irvine, United States']]
[u'Linking comparative genomics and environmental distribution patterns of microbial populations through metagenomics', ['Tom O Delmont', 'A. Murat Eren'], u'June 13, 2016.', u'Combining well-established practices from comparative genomics and the emerging opportunities from assembly-based metagenomics can enhance the utility of increasing number of metagenome-assembled genomes (MAGs). Here we used protein clustering to characterize 48 MAGs and 10 cultivars based on their entire gene content, and linked this information to their environmental distribution patterns to better understand the microbial response to the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico coastline. Our results suggest that while most oil-associated bacterial populations originated from the ocean, a few actually emerged from the sand rare biosphere. These new findings suggest that there are considerable benefits to employ approaches from comparative genomics to study the whole content of newly identified genomes, and the investigation of emerging patterns in the environmental context can augment the efficacy of assembly-based metagenomic surveys.', u'/content/early/2016/06/13/058750', [], [u'University of Chicago']]
[u'Local and thalamic origins of ongoing and sensory evoked cortical correlations', ['Katayun Cohen-Kashi Malina', 'Boaz Mohar', 'Akiva N Rappaport', 'Ilan Lampl'], u'June 13, 2016.', u'Thalamic inputs of layer 4 (L4) cells in sensory cortices are outnumbered by local connections. Thus, it was suggested that robust sensory response in L4 emerges due to synchronized thalamic activity. In order to investigate the role of both inputs in generation of cortical synchronization, we isolated the thalamic excitatory inputs of cortical cells by optogenetically silencing cortical firing. In anesthetized mice, we measured the correlation between isolated thalamic synaptic inputs of simultaneously patched nearby L4 cells of the barrel cortex. In contrast to correlated activity of excitatory synaptic inputs in the intact cortex, isolated thalamic inputs exhibit lower variability and asynchronous spontaneous and sensory evoked inputs. These results were further supported in awake mice when we recorded the excitatory inputs of individual cortical cells simultaneously with the local field potential (LFP) in a nearby site.  Our results therefore indicate that cortical synchronization emerges by intracortical coupling.', u'/content/early/2016/06/13/058727', [], [u'The Weizmann Institute of Science']]
[u'The CD4+ T cell regulatory network mediates inflammatory responses during acute hyperinsulinemia: a simulation study', ['Mariana Esther Martinez-Sanchez', 'Marcia Hiriart', 'Elena Alvarez-Buylla'], u'June 13, 2016.', u'Obesity is linked to insulin resistance, high insulin levels, chronic inflammation, and alterations in the behavior of CD4+ T cells. Despite the biomedical importance of this condition, the system-level mechanisms that alter CD4+ T cell differentiation and plasticity are not well understood. We model how hyperinsulinemia alters the dynamics of the CD4+ T regulatory network, and this, in turn, modulates cell differentiation and plasticity. Different polarizing micro-environments are simulated under basal and high levels of insulin to assess impacts on cell-fate attainment and robustness in response to transient perturbations. In the presence of high levels of insulin Th1 and Th17 become more stable to transient perturbations and their basin sizes are augmented, IL10 producing regulatory T cells become less stable or disappear, while TGFB producing cells remain unaltered. Hence, the model provides a dynamic system-level explanation for the documented apparently paradoxical role of TGFB in both inflammation and regulation of immune responses and the emergence of the adipose Treg phenotype. Furthermore, our simulations provide novel predictions on the impact of the micro-environment in the coexistence of the different cell types, proposing that in pro-Th1, pro-Th2 and pro-Th17 environments effector and regulatory cells can coexist, but that high levels of insulin severely affect regulatory cells, specially in a pro-Th17 environment. This work provides a system-level formal and dynamic framework to integrate further experimental data in the study of complex inflammatory diseases.', u'/content/early/2016/06/13/058743', [], [u'Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico']]
[u'Universal metabarcoding of pico- to mesoplankton reveals seasonal dynamics and a bacterial bloom', ['Christian Wurzbacher', 'Katrin Attermeyer', 'Marie Therese Kettner', 'Clara Flintrop', 'Norman Warthmann', 'Sabine Hilt', 'Hans-Peter Grossart', 'Michael T Monaghan'], u'June 13, 2016.', u'Most studies of biodiversity focus on either macroscopic or microbial communities, with little or no simultaneous study of eukaryotes and prokaryotes. We tested whether a universal metabarcoding approach could be used to study the total diversity and temporal dynamics of aquatic pico- to mesoplankton communities in a shallow temperate lake. The approach revealed significant changes in the relative abundance of eukaryotic and prokaryotic plankton communities over a period of three months. These patterns, based on sequencing reads, fit with counts using traditional methods. We also witnessed the bloom of a conditionally rare bacterial taxon belonging to Arcicella, a genus that has been largely overlooked in freshwaters. Our data demonstrate the potential of universal metabarcoding as a complement to traditional studies of plankton communities, and for long-term monitoring across a broad range of organisms.', u'/content/early/2016/06/13/058628', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Gothenburg, Sweden;', u'Uppsala University, Sweden;', u'Leibniz-Institute of Freshwater Ecology and Inland Fisheries, Germany;', u'Berlin Center for Genomics in Biodiversity Research;', u'The Australian National University, Australia']]
[u'ICGenealogy: Mapping the function of neuronal ion channels in model and experiment', ['William F Podlaski', 'Alex Seeholzer', 'Lukas N Groschner', 'Gero Miesenbock', 'Rajnish Ranjan', 'Tim P Vogels'], u'June 13, 2016.', u'Ion channel models are the building blocks of computational neuron models. Their biological fidelity is therefore crucial for the interpretability of simulations. However, the number of published models, and the lack of standardization, make the comparison of models with one another and with experimental data difficult. Here, we present a framework for the automated large-scale classification of ion channel models. Using annotated metadata and model responses to a set of voltage-clamp protocols, we assigned 2378 models of voltage- and calcium-gated ion channels coded in NEURON to 211 clusters. The IonChannelGenealogy web interface provides an interactive resource for the categorization of new and existing models and experimental recordings. It enables quantitative comparisons of simulated and/or measured ion channel kinetics, and facilitates field-wide standardization of experimentally-constrained modeling.', u'/content/early/2016/06/13/058685', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Oxford;', u'EPFL']]
[u'Brachiopods possess a split Hox cluster with signs of spatial, but not temporal collinearity', ['Sabrina M. Schiemann', 'Jose M. M. Martin-Duran', 'Aina Borve', 'Bruno C. Vellutini', 'Yale J. Passamaneck', 'Andreas Hejnol'], u'June 13, 2016.', u'Hox genes are often clustered in animal genomes and exhibit spatial and/or temporal collinearity. It is generally believed that temporal collinearity is the major force preserving Hox clusters. However, studies combining genomic and gene expression analyses of Hox genes are scarce, particularly within Spiralia and Lophotrochozoa (e.g. mollusks, segmented worms, and flatworms). Here, we use two brachiopod species --Terebratalia transversa and Novocrania anomala-- that respectively belong to the two major brachiopod lineages to characterize their Hox complement, the presence of a Hox cluster, and the temporal and spatial expression of their Hox genes. We demonstrate that the Hox complement consists of ten Hox genes in T. transversa (lab, pb, Hox3, dfd, scr, lox5, antp, lox4, post2 and post1) and nine in N. anomala (missing post1). Additionally, T. transversa has an ordered, split Hox cluster. Expression analyses reveal that Hox genes are neither temporally nor spatially collinear, and only the genes pb (in T. transversa), Hox3 and dfd (in both brachiopods) show staggered expression in the mesoderm. Remarkably, lab, scr, antp and post1 are associated with the development of the chaetae and shell-forming epithelium, as also observed in annelid chaetae and mollusk shell fields. This, together with the expression of Arx homeobox, supports the deep conservation of the molecular basis for chaetae formation and shell patterning in Lophotrochozoa. Our findings challenge the current evolutionary scenario that (temporal) collinearity is the major mechanism preserving Hox clusters, and suggest that Hox genes were involved in the evolution of lophotrochozoan novelties.', u'/content/early/2016/06/13/058669', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Sars International Centre. University of Bergen;', u'Kewalo Marine Laboratory, Pacific Biosciences Research Center, University of Hawaii']]
[u'Gene expression changes after heat shock of procyclic-form Trypanosoma brucei suggest that stress has a role in differentiation to mammalian-infective forms.', ['Christine Clayton', 'Igor Minia', 'Clementine Merce', 'Monica Terrao'], u'June 13, 2016.', u'Trypanosome procyclic forms multiply in the midgut of Tsetse flies, and are routinely cultured at 27C. Heat shocks of 37C and above result in general inhibition of translation, and severe heat shock (41C) results in sequestration of mRNA in granules. The mRNAs that are bound by the zinc-finger protein ZC3H11, including those encoding refolding chaperones, escape heat-induced translation inhibition.  At 27C, ZC3H11 mRNA is predominantly present as an untranslated cytosolic messenger ribonucleoprotein particle, but after heat shocks of 37C - 41C, the ZC3H11 mRNA moves into the polysomal fraction. To investigate the scope and specificities of heat-shock translational regulation and granule formation, we analysed the distributions of mRNAs on polysomes at 27C and after 1 hour at 39C, and the mRNA content of 41C heat shock granules. We found that that mRNAs that bind to ZC3H11 remained in polysomes at 39C and were protected from sequestration in granules at 41C. As previously seen for starvation stress granules, the mRNAs that encode ribosomal proteins were excluded from heat-shock granules. Seventy mRNAs moved towards the polysomal fraction after the 39C heat shock; surprisingly, many of these are also increased when trypanosomes migrate to the Tsetse salivary glands. It therefore seems possible that in the wild, temperature changes due to diurnal variations and periodic intake of warm blood might influence the efficiency with which procyclic forms develop into mammalian-infective forms.', u'/content/early/2016/06/13/058701', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'ZMBH']]
[u'Atypical Salmonella enterica serovars in murine and human infection models: Is it time to reassess our approach to the study of salmonellosis?', ['Daniel Hurley', 'Maria Hoffmann', 'Tim Muruvanda', 'Marc W Allard', 'Eric W Brown', 'Marta Martins', 'Seamus Fanning'], u'June 13, 2016.', u'Nontyphoidal Salmonella species are globally disseminated pathogens and the predominant cause of gastroenteritis. The pathogenesis of salmonellosis has been extensively studied using in vivo murine models and cell lines typically challenged with Salmonella Typhimurium. Although serovars Enteritidis and Typhimurium are responsible for the most of human infections reported to the CDC, several other serovars also contribute to clinical cases of salmonellosis. Despite their epidemiological importance, little is known about their infection phenotypes. Here, we report the virulence characteristics and genomes of 10 atypical S. enterica serovars linked to multistate foodborne outbreaks in the United States. We show that the murine RAW 264.7 macrophage model of infection is unsuitable for inferring human relevant differences in nontyphoidal Salmonella infections whereas differentiated human THP-1 macrophages allowed these isolates to be further characterised in a more relevant, human context.', u'/content/early/2016/06/13/058610.1', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University College Dublin;', u'U.S. Food and Drug Administration']]
[u'Task-specific shaping of feature-based attention in area MT', ['Bastian Schledde', 'Fingal Orlando Galashan', 'Magdalena Przybyla', 'Andreas Kurt Kreiter', 'Detlef Wegener'], u'June 13, 2016.', u"Visual perception depends on the effective prioritization of visual information in order to concur with the current behavioral context. Depending on the context's requirements, it is important to facilitate the processing of a certain feature (e.g. motion) in some situations, while in others another feature (e.g. color) is more crucial. We here address the question whether and how the specific requirements of a visual task influence modulation of neuronal activity by feature-based attention (FBA). We recorded neuronal responses from monkey motion-sensitive medio-temporal area (MT) in response to spatially attended or unattended motion stimuli, while monkeys were required to detect an instantaneous speed- or color-change of a pre-cued target stimulus. We found a strong influence of task requirements on several parameters of MT single cell responses: If the task required attention to speed, mean firing rates were higher, and response variability and latency to otherwise identical visual stimuli was lower as compared to the task requiring attention to color. This was evident even with attention directed to the stimulus outside the receptive field (RF) of the recorded neuron, moving in a direction 180 deg away from the preferred direction inside the RF. Importantly, this task-specific response modulation in the processing of visual motion was preceded by a spatially global and tuning-independent shift in the baseline activity of MT neurons before onset of visual stimuli. The results provide single cell support for the hypothesis of a feature dimension-specific top-down signal emphasizing the processing of an entire feature class.", u'/content/early/2016/06/13/058693', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Brain Research Institute, Center for Cognitive Science, University of Bremen']]
[u'Maintaining proton homeostasis is an essential role of glucose metabolism in cell survival', ['Yanfen Cui', 'Yuanyuan Wang', 'Pan Xing', 'Li Qiu', 'Miao Liu', 'Xin Wang', 'Guoguang Ying', 'Binghui Li'], u'June 13, 2016.', u'Aerobic glycolysis, termed the Warburg Effect, supports cell proliferation, and glucose deprivation directly elicits necrosis or shifts stimuli-induced apoptosis to necrosis. However, how glucose metabolism regulates cell survival or death choice remains largely unclear. Here we use our recently developed method to monitor in real-time cellular apoptosis and necrosis, and uncover a metabolic homeostasis linked to cell death control. We show that glucose metabolism is the major source to maintain both intracellular and extracellular proton homeostasis. Glucose deficiency leads to lack of proton provision, which provokes a compensatory lysosomal proton efflux and resultant increased lysosomal pH. This lysosomal alkalinization can trigger necrosis. Furthermore, artificial proton supplement enables cells to survive glucose deprivation. Taken together, our results reveal a critical role of glucose metabolism in maintaining cellular microenvironment, and provide a better understanding of the essential requirement of aerobic glycolysis for proliferating cells whose active anabolism consumes a great many protons.', u'/content/early/2016/06/13/058594', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Tianjin Medical University Cancer Institute and Hospital']]
[u'Sacral agenesis: A whole exome sequencing and copy number study', ['Robert Milan Porsch', 'Elisa Merello', 'Patrizia De Marco', 'Guo Cheng', 'Laura Rodriguez', 'Paul Tam', 'Stacey Cherny', 'Pak Sham', 'Valeria Carpa', 'Maria-Merce Garcia-Barcelo', 'Desmond Campbell'], u'June 13, 2016.', u'Background:\nCaudal regression syndrome (CRS) or sacral agenesis is a rare congenital disorder characterized by a constellation of congenital caudal anomalies affecting the caudal spine and spinal cord, the hindgut, the urogenital system, and the lower limbs. CRS is a complex condition, attributed to an abnormal development of the caudal mesoderm, likely caused by the effect of interacting genetic and environmental factors. A well-known risk factor is maternal-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. \n\nResults:\nIn this pilot study, exome sequencing and copy number variation (CNV) analyses of 5 CRS trios implicate diabetes related genes, including MORN1, ZNF330, CLTCL1 and PDZD2. De novo mutations were identified in SPTBN5, MORN1 and ZNF330 and inherited damaging mutations in PDZD2 (homozygous) and CLTCL1 (compound heterozygous). In addition, a compound heterozygous mutation in GLTSCR2, a direct regulator of the CRS-related gene PTEN, was identified.Pathway based tests suggested the involvement of both pancreatic cancer (p<1\xd710-4 ), and an immunity-related (p<1\xd710-4 ) KEGG pathways. \nTwo CNV deletions, one de novo (3q13.13) and one homozygous (8p23.2), were detected in one of our CRS patients. These deletions overlapped with CNVs previously reported in patients with similar phenotype.\n\nConclusion:\nDespite the genetic diversity and the complexity of the phenotype, this pilot study identified genetic features common across CRS patients including mutations in genes associated with diabetes.', u'/content/early/2016/06/13/058578', [u'Pathology'], [u'The University of Hong Kong;', u'Istituto Giannina Gaslini;', u'AbaCid-Gen\xe9tica. Grupo HM Hospitales']]
[u'Modeling and Analysis of Hormone and Mitogenic Signal Integration in Prostate Cancer', ['Katharine Rogers', 'Joseph Wayman', 'Ryan Tasseff', 'Caitlin Gee', 'Matthew DeLisa', 'Jeffrey Varner'], u'June 13, 2016.', u'Prostate cancer is the most common cancer in men and the second leading cause of cancer related death in the United States. Androgens, such as testosterone, are required for androgen dependent prostate cancer (ADPC) growth. Androgen ablation in combination with radiation or chemotherapy remains the primary non-surgical treatment for ADPC. However, androgen ablation typically fails to permanently arrest cancer progression, often resulting in castration resistant prostate cancer (CRPC). In this study, we analyzed a population of mathematical models that described the integration of androgen and mitogenic signaling in androgen dependent and independent prostate cancer. An ensemble of model parameters was estimated from 43 studies of signaling in androgen dependent and resistant LNCaP cell lines. The model population was then validated by comparing simulations with an additional 33 data sets from LNCaP cell lines and clinical trials. Analysis of the model population suggested that simultaneously targeting the PI3K and MAPK pathways in addition to anti-androgen therapies could be an effective treatment for CRPC. We tested this hypothesis in both ADPC LNCaP cell lines and LNCaP derived CRPC C4-2 cells using three inhibitors: the androgen receptor inhibitor MDV3100 (enzalutamide), the Raf kinase inhibitor sorafenib, and the PI3K inhibitor LY294002. Consistent with model predictions, cell viability decreased at 72 hrs in the dual and triple inhibition cases in both the LNCaP and C4-2 cell lines, compared to treatment with any single inhibitor. Taken together, this study suggested that crosstalk between the androgen and mitogenic signaling axes led to robustness of CRPC to any single inhibitor. Model analysis predicted potentially efficacious target combinations which were confirmed by experimental studies in multiple cell lines, thereby illustrating the potentially important role that mathematical modeling can play in cancer.', u'/content/early/2016/06/13/058552', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Cornell University']]
[u'Towards an integration of deep learning and neuroscience', ['Adam Henry Marblestone', 'Greg Wayne', 'Konrad P Kording'], u'June 13, 2016.', u'Neuroscience has focused on the detailed implementation of computation, studying neural codes, dynamics and circuits. In machine learning, however, artificial neural networks tend to eschew precisely designed codes, dynamics or circuits in favor of brute force optimization of a cost function, often using simple and relatively uniform initial architectures. Two recent developments have emerged within machine learning that create an opportunity to connect these seemingly divergent perspectives. First, structured architectures are used, including dedicated systems for attention, recursion and various forms of short- and long-term memory storage. Second, cost functions and training procedures have become more complex and are varied across layers and over time. Here we think about the brain in terms of these ideas. We hypothesize that (1) the brain optimizes cost functions, (2) these cost functions are diverse and differ across brain locations and over development, and (3) optimization operates within a pre-structured architecture matched to the computational problems posed by behavior. Such a heterogeneously optimized system, enabled by a series of interacting cost functions, serves to make learning data-efficient and precisely targeted to the needs of the organism. We suggest directions by which neuroscience could seek to refine and test these hypotheses.', u'/content/early/2016/06/13/058545', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'MIT;', u'Google Deepmind;', u'Northwestern University']]
