[u'The population genetics of human disease: the case of recessive, lethal mutations', ['Carlos Eduardo Guerra Amorim', 'Ziuye Gao', 'Zachary Baker', 'Jose Francisco Diesel', 'Yuval B. Simons', 'Imran S. Haque', 'Joseph Pickrell', 'Molly Przeworski'], u'December 4, 2016.', u'Do the frequencies of disease mutations in human populations reflect a simple balance between mutation and purifying selection? What other factors shape the prevalence of disease mutations? To begin to answer these questions, we focused on one of the simplest cases: recessive mutations that alone cause lethal diseases or complete sterility. To this end, we generated a hand-curated set of 417 Mendelian mutations in 32 genes, reported to cause a recessive, lethal Mendelian disease. We then considered analytic models of mutation-selection balance in infinite and finite populations of constant sizes and simulations of purifying selection in a more realistic demographic setting, and tested how well these models fit allele frequencies estimated from 33,370 individuals of European ancestry. In doing so, we distinguished between CpG transitions, which occur at a substantially elevated rate, and other mutation types. Whereas observed frequencies for CpG transitions are close to expectation, the frequencies observed for other mutation types are an order of magnitude higher than expected; this discrepancy is even larger when subtle fitness effects in heterozygotes or lethal compound heterozygotes are taken into account. In principle, higher than expected frequencies of disease mutations could be due to widespread errors in reporting causal variants, compensation by other mutations, or balancing selection. It is unclear why these factors would affect CpG transitions differently from other mutations, however. We argue instead that the unexpectedly high frequency of non-CpGti disease mutations likely reflects an ascertainment bias: of all the mutations that cause recessive lethal diseases, those that by chance have reached higher frequencies are more likely to have been identified in medical studies and thus to have been included in this study. Beyond the specific application, this study highlights the parameters likely to be important in shaping the frequencies of Mendelian disease alleles.', u'/content/early/2016/12/04/091579', [u'Genetics'], [u'Columbia University;', u'Howard Hughes Medical Institution, Stanford University;', u'Universidade Federal de Santa Maria;', u'Counsyl;', u'New York Genome Center']]
[u'SiFit: A Method for Inferring Tumor Trees from Single-Cell Sequencing Data under Finite-site Models', ['Hamim Zafar', 'Anthony Tzen', 'Nicholas Navin', 'Ken Chen', 'Luay Nakhleh'], u'December 4, 2016.', u'Tumor phylogenies provide insightful information on \n intra-tumor heterogeneity and evolutionary trajectories. Single-cell sequencing (SCS) enables the inference of tumor phylogenies and methods were recently introduced for this task under the infinite-sites assumption.  \nViolations of this assumption, due to chromosomal \ndeletions and loss of heterozygosity, necessitate the development of statistical inference methods that utilize \nfinite-site models. We propose a statistical inference method for tumor phylogenies from noisy SCS data\nunder a finite-sites model. We demonstrate the performance of our method on synthetic and biological data sets.\nOur results suggest that employing a finite-sites model leads to improved inference of tumor', u'/content/early/2016/12/04/091595', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Rice University;', u'UT MD Anderson Cancer Center']]
[u'BLISS: quantitative and versatile genome-wide profiling of DNA breaks in situ', ['Winston X Yan', 'Reza Mirzazadeh', 'Silvano Garnerone', 'David A Scott', 'Martin W Schneider', 'Tomasz Kallas', 'Joaquin Custodio', 'Erik Wernersson', 'Linyi Gao', 'Yinqing Li', 'Yana Federova', 'Bernd Zetsche', 'Feng Zhang', 'Magda Bienko', 'Nicola Crosetto'], u'December 4, 2016.', u'We present a method for genome-wide DNA double-strand Breaks (DSBs) Labeling In Situ and Sequencing (BLISS) which, compared to existing methods, introduces several key features: 1) high efficiency and low input requirement by in situ DSB labeling in cells or tissue sections directly on a solid surface; 2) easy scalability by performing in situ reactions in multi-well plates; 3) high sensitivity by linearly amplifying tagged DSBs using in vitro transcription; and 4) accurate DSB quantification and control of PCR biases by using unique molecular identifiers. We demonstrate the ability to use BLISS to quantify natural and drug-induced DSBs in low-input samples of cancer cells, primary mouse embryonic stem cells, and mouse liver tissue sections. Finally, we applied BLISS to compare the specificity of CRISPR-associated RNA-guided endonucleases Cas9 and Cpf1, and found that Cpf1 has higher specificity than Cas9. These results establish BLISS as a versatile, sensitive, and efficient method for genome- wide DSB mapping in many applications.', u'/content/early/2016/12/04/091629', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Broad Institute and MIT;', u'Karolinska Institutet']]
[u'Monozygotic twin pairs discordant for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis carry both common and unique epigenetic differences relevant to disease', ['Paul E Young', 'Stephen Kum Jew', 'Michael E Buckland', 'Roger Pamphlett', 'Catherine M Suter'], u'December 4, 2016.', u'Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a devastating late-onset neurodegenerative disorder in which only a small proportion of patients carry an identifiable causative genetic lesion. Despite high heritability estimates, a genetic etiology for most sporadic ALS remains elusive. Here we report the epigenetic profiling of five monozygotic twin pairs discordant for ALS in whom previous genome sequencing excluded a genetic basis for their disease discordance. By studying cytosine methylation patterns in peripheral blood DNA we identified thousands of large between-twin differences at individual CpGs. While the specific sites of difference were largely idiosyncratic to a twin pair, a proportion (involving GABA signalling) were common to all affected individuals. In both instances the differences occurred within genes and pathways related to neurobiological function and dysfunction. Our findings reveal widespread changes in epigenetic marks in ALS patients, consistent with an epigenetic contribution to disease. These findings may be exploited to develop blood-based biomarkers of ALS and develop further insight into disease pathogenesis. We expect that our findings will provide a useful point of reference for further large scale studies of sporadic ALS.', u'/content/early/2016/12/04/090977', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Victor Chang Cardiac Research Institute;', u'University of Sydney;', u'Royal Prince Alfred Hospital']]
[u'Heterogeneous firing responses predict diverse couplings to presynaptic activity in mice layer V pyramidal neurons', ['Yann Zerlaut', 'Alain Destexhe'], u'December 4, 2016.', u"In the present study, we present a theoretical framework combining experimental characterizations and analytical calculus to capture the firing rate input-output properties of single neurons in the fluctuation-driven regime. We use this framework to investigate the functional impact of the heterogeneity in firing responses found experimentally in young mice layer V pyramidal cells. We first design and calibrate in vitro a simplified morphological model of layer V pyramidal neurons with a dendritic tree following Rall's branching rule. Then, we propose an analytical derivation for the membrane potential fluctuations at the soma as a function of the properties of the synaptic bombardment in dendrites. This mathematical description allows us to easily emulate various forms of presynaptic activities: either balanced, unbalanced, synchronized, purely proximal or purely distal synaptic activity. We found that those different forms of activity led to various comodulations of the membrane potential fluctuation properties, thus raising the question whether individual neurons might differentially couple to specific forms of activity because of their different firing responses. We indeed found such a heterogeneous response for all types of presynaptic activity. This heterogeneity was explained by different levels of cellular excitability in the case of the balanced, unbalanced, synchronized and purely distal activity. A notable exception appeared for proximal activity: increasing activity could either promote firing response in some cells or suppress it in some other cells whatever their individual excitability. This behavior could only be explained by various sensitivities to the speed of the fluctuations, which was previously associated to heterogeneous levels of sodium channel inactivation and density. Because local network connectivity targets rather proximal region, our results suggest that this biophysical heterogeneity might be relevant to neocortical processing by controlling how individual neurons couple to local network activity.", u'/content/early/2016/12/04/091587', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia;', u'Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique']]
[u'Engineered Cpf1 Enzymes with Altered PAM Specificities', ['Linyi Gao', 'David B.T. Cox', 'Winston X Yan', 'John Manteiga', 'Martin Schneider', 'Takashi Yamano', 'Hiroshi Nishimasu', 'Osamu Nureki', 'Feng Zhang'], u'December 4, 2016.', u'The RNA-guided endonuclease Cpf1 is a promising tool for genome editing in eukaryotic cells. Compared to other genome editing platforms, Cpf1 offers distinct advantages, such as the ability to easily target multiple genes simultaneously, as well as low rates of off-target activity. However, the Acidaminococcus sp. BV3L6 Cpf1 (AsCpf1), which has been successfully harnessed for genome editing, can only robustly cleave target sites preceded by a TTTV protospacer adjacent motif (PAM), which may limit its practical utility. To address this limitation, we used a structure- guided saturation mutagenesis screen to increase the targeting range of Cpf1. We engineered two variants of AsCpf1 with the mutations S542R/K607R and S542R/K548V/N552R that can cleave target sites with TYCV/CCCC and TATV PAMs, respectively, with enhanced activities in vitro and in human cells. Genome-wide assessment of off-target activity indicated that these variants retain a high level of DNA targeting specificity, which can be further improved by introducing mutations in non-PAM-interacting domains. Together, these variants increase the targeting range of AsCpf1 to one cleavage site for every ~8.7 bp in non-repetitive regions of the human genome, providing a useful addition to the CRISPR/Cas genome engineering toolbox.', u'/content/early/2016/12/04/091611', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'Broad Institute and MIT;', u'University of Tokyo;', u'Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard; McGovern Institute for Brain Research at MIT']]
[u'The interaction of orientation-specific surround suppression and visual-spatial attention', ['Ariel Rokem', 'Ayelet Nina Landau'], u'December 4, 2016.', u'Orientation selective surround suppression (OSSS) is a reduction in the perceived contrast of a stimulus, which occurs when a collinear grating is placed adjacent to the stimulus. Attention affects performance on many visual tasks, and we asked whether the perceptual effects of OSSS are mitigated through the allocation of voluntary visual-spatial attention. Participants were tested in a contrast discrimination task: at the beginning of each trial, one location on the screen was cued and a subsequent contrast judgment was then more likely (70%) to be performed in that location.  Replicating previous results, we found that the point of subjective equality (PSE) was elevated for a collinear, relative to an orthogonal, surround. While the PSE was similar for validly and invalidly cued trials, the just noticeable difference (JND) was larger for invalid cue trials, and for collinear, relative to orthogonal surround, suggesting that while OSSS affects both perceived contrast and sensitivity, voluntary attention affects only perceptual sensitivity. In another experiment no informative cue was provided, and attention was distributed over the entire display. In this case, JND and PSE were shifted depending on the  contrast of the distractor, suggesting that OSSS is affected by the allocation of visual-spatial attention, but only under conditions of distributed attention.', u'/content/early/2016/12/04/091553', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'The University of Washington;', u'The Hebrew University of Jerusalem']]
[u'Zebrafish Nanog is not required in embryonic cells', ['James A Gagnon', 'Kamal Obbad', 'Alexander F Schier'], u'December 4, 2016.', u'The role of the zebrafish transcription factor Nanog has been controversial. It has been suggested that Nanog is primarily required for the formation of the extraembryonic yolk syncytial layer (YSL) and only indirectly regulates gene expression in embryonic cells. By contrast, a more recent study has proposed that Nanog directly regulates transcription in embryonic cells during zygotic genome activation. To clarify the roles of Nanog, we performed a detailed analysis of zebrafish nanog mutants. While zygotic nanog mutants survive to adulthood, maternal-zygotic and maternal mutants exhibit developmental arrest at the blastula stage. In the absence of Nanog, the YSL fails to form and embryonic tissue detaches from the yolk. Zygotic transcription of a subset of embryonic genes is affected in nanog mutants but both the YSL and embryonic phenotype can be rescued by providing nanog mRNA in YSL precursors. Notably, nanog mutant cells transplanted into wild-type hosts proliferate and contribute to embryonic tissues from all germ layers. These results indicate that zebrafish Nanog is necessary for YSL formation but is not directly required for embryonic cell differentiation.', u'/content/early/2016/12/04/091504', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'Harvard University']]
[u'Maximizing ecological and evolutionary insight from bisulfite sequencing data sets', ['Amanda Lea', 'Tauras Vilgalys', 'Paul Durst', 'Jenny Tung'], u'December 4, 2016.', u'The role of DNA methylation in development, divergence, and the response to environmental stimuli is of substantial interest in ecology and evolutionary biology. Measuring genome-wide DNA methylation is increasingly feasible using sodium bisulfite sequencing. Here, we analyze simulated and published data sets to demonstrate how effect size, kinship/population structure, taxonomic differences, and cell type heterogeneity influence the power to detect differential methylation in bisulfite sequencing data sets. Our results reveal that the effect sizes typical of evolutionary and ecological studies are modest, and will thus require data sets larger than those currently in common use. Additionally, our findings emphasize that statistical approaches that ignore the properties of bisulfite sequencing data (e.g., its count-based nature) or key sources of variance in natural populations (e.g., population structure or cell type heterogeneity) often produce false negatives or false positives, thus leading to incorrect biological conclusions. Finally, we provide recommendations for handling common issues that arise in bisulfite sequencing analyses and a freely available R Shiny application for simulating and performing power analyses on bisulfite sequencing data. This app, available at www.tung-lab.org/protocols-and-software.html, allows users to explore the effects of sequencing depth, sample size, population structure, and expected effect size, tailored to their own system.', u'/content/early/2016/12/04/091488', [u'Genomics'], [u'Duke University;', u'University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill']]
[u'Genome-wide survey of Pseudomonas aeruginosa PA14 reveals a role for the glyoxylate pathway and extracellular proteases in the limited utilization of mucin', ['Jeffrey M Flynn', 'Chi Q Phan', 'Ryan C Hunter'], u'December 4, 2016.', u'Chronic airway infections by the opportunistic pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa are major cause of mortality in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. While this bacterium has been extensively studied for its virulence mechanisms, biofilm growth and immune evasion within the CF airways, comparatively little is known about the nutrient sources that sustain its growth in vivo. Respiratory mucins represent a potentially abundant bioavailable nutrient source, though we have recently shown that canonical pathogens inefficiently use these host glycoproteins as a growth substrate. Yet, given that P. aeruginosa, particularly in its biofilm mode of growth is thought to grow slowly in vivo, the inefficient use of mucin glycoproteins may have relevance to its persistence within the CF airways. To this end, here we use whole genome fitness analysis combining transposon mutagenesis with high throughput sequencing (TnSeq) to identify genetic determinants required for P. aeruginosa growth using intact purified mucins as a sole carbon source. Our analysis reveals a biphasic growth phenotype, during which the glyoxylate pathway and amino acid biosynthetic machinery are required for mucin utilization.  Secondary analyses confirmed the simultaneous liberation and consumption of acetate during mucin degradation and revealed a central role for the extracellular proteases LasB and AprA. Together, these studies identified the P. aeruginosa genes required for mucin-based nutrient acquisition and reveal a host-pathogen dynamic that may contribute to its persistence within the CF airways.', u'/content/early/2016/12/04/091462', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Minnesota']]
[u'Prototyping a valinomycin biosynthesis pathway within a cell-free transcription-translation (TX-TL) system', ['Tiffany Zhou'], u'December 4, 2016.', u'Many natural metabolites have antibacterial, antiviral, or anticancer effects and can be developed into new drugs. However, working with the microorganisms that produce these products can be challenging since they are not as well characterized as a model organism like Escherichia coli. In this paper, we investigate the potential for a cell-free transcription-translation (TX-TL) system to provide a rapid prototyping platform for characterizing new genetic pathways. We use the valinomycin biosynthesis pathway as a test case, and we show successful heterologous expression of the heterodimeric valinomycin synthetase (VlmSyn, Vlm1: 374 kDa and Vlm2: 284 kDa) from Streptomyces tsusimaensis within the TX-TL system. Using LC-MS analysis, we find that valinomycin is produced at low but detectable levels, even when only one out of the three basic precursors is fed into the system. Our work represents another step towards applying cell-free biosynthesis to the discovery and characterization of new natural products.', u'/content/early/2016/12/04/091520', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'California Institute of Technology']]
[u'A Novel DNA-binding Protein Coordinates Asymmetric Chromosome Replication and Chromosome Partitioning', ['James Taylor', 'Gael Panis', 'Patrick Viollier', 'Gregory Marczynski'], u'December 4, 2016.', u'Bacterial chromosome replication is regulated from a single replication origin (ori) that receives cell cycle signals. Following replication, bacteria often use the parABS partition system with a centromere-like parS locus to place the chromosomes into the daughter cells. Our knowledge of cell cycle regulation is incomplete and we searched for novel regulators of chromosome replication. Here we show that in the cell cycle model Caulobacter crescentus a novel DNA-binding protein promotes both the initiation of chromosome replication and the earliest step of chromosome partitioning.  We used biochemical fractionation to identify a protein (OpaA) that preferentially binds to mutated ori DNA that also increases ori-plasmid replication in vivo. OpaA represents a previously unknown class of DNA-binding proteins. opaA gene expression is essential and sufficient OpaA levels are required for the correct timing of chromosome replication. Whole genome ChIP-seq identified the genomic binding sites for OpaA, with the strongest associations at the parABS locus near ori. Using molecular-genetic and fluorescence microscopy experiments, we showed that OpaA also promotes the first step of chromosome partitioning, the initial separation of the duplicated parS loci following ori replication. This separation occurs before the parABS mechanism and it coincides with the regulatory step that splits the symmetry of the chromosomes so that they are placed at distinct cell-poles which develop into replicating and non-replicating cell-types. We propose that OpaA coordinates replication with the poorly understood mechanism of early chromosome separation. opaA lethal suppressor and antibiotic experiments argue that future studies be focused on the mechanistic roles for transcription and translation at this critical step of the cell cycle.', u'/content/early/2016/12/04/091496', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Ottawa;', u'University of Geneva Medical School;', u'McGill University']]
[u'Stimulus visibility controls the balance between attention-induced changes in contrast appearance and decision bias', ['Sirawaj Itthipuripat', 'Kai-Yu Chang', 'Ashley Bong', 'John T Serences'], u'December 4, 2016.', u'While attention is known to improve information processing, whether attention can alter visual appearance has been a cornerstone of debate for 100+ years. Although recent studies suggest that attention can alter appearance, it has been argued that the reported appearance changes reflect response bias. Here, we provide a resolution to this debate by showing that attention has different effects on appearance and response bias depending on stimulus visibility. In a contrast judgment task where the contrast of attended and unattended stimuli varied across a full range of contrast values, human participants exhibited a substantial amount of response bias to the attended stimulus, when stimuli were hard to see. However, when stimuli were easier to see, response bias decreased and attention primarily increased perceived contrast. These results help constrain philosophical arguments about the cognitive penetrability of perception and reconcile the long-standing debate about the attention effect on appearance and response bias.', u'/content/early/2016/12/04/091421', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'UCSD Neurosciences Graduate Program;', u'UCSD Cognitive Neuroscience Department;', u'UCSD Bioengineering Department;', u'UCSD Neurosciences Graduate Program and Psychology Department']]
[u'Training qualitatively shifts the neural mechanisms that support attentional selection', ['Sirawaj Itthipuripat', 'Kexin Cha', 'Anna Byers', 'John T Serences'], u'December 4, 2016.', u'Attention supports the selection of relevant sensory information from competing irrelevant sensory information. This selective processing is thought to be supported via the attentional gain amplification of sensory responses evoked by attended compared to unattended stimuli. However, recent studies in highly trained subjects suggest that attentional gain plays a relatively modest role and that other types of neural modulations, such as a reduction in neural noise, better explain attention-related changes in behavior. We hypothesized that the amount of training may alter neural mechanisms that support attentional selection in visual cortex. To test this hypothesis, we investigated the influence of training on attentional modulations of stimulus-evoked visual responses by recording electroencephalography (EEG) from humans performing a selective visuospatial attention task over the course of one month. Early in training, visuospatial attention induced a robust attentional gain amplification of sensory-evoked responses in contralateral visual cortex that emerged within ~100ms after stimulus onset, and a quantitative model based on signal detection theory (SDT) successfully linked this attentional gain amplification to attention-related improvements in behavior. However, after training, this attentional gain amplification of visual responses was almost completely eliminated and modeling suggested that noise reduction was required to link the amplitude of visual responses with attentional modulations of behavior. These findings suggest that the neural mechanisms supporting selective attention can change as a function of training and expertise, and help to bridge different results from studies carried out in different model systems that require substantially different amount of training.', u'/content/early/2016/12/04/091413', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'UCSD Neurosciences Graduate Program;', u'UCSD Psychology Department;', u'UCSD Neurosciences Graduate Program and Psychology Department']]
[u'The Phenotypic, Genotypic, & Environmental Drivers of Local Adaptation to a Harsh Granite Outcrop Environment in Mimulus', ['Kathleen G. Ferris', 'John H. Willis'], u'December 4, 2016.', u'A primary goal in evolutionary biology is to understand what traits, genes, and environmental variables drive local adaptation. This is difficult since many traits and genes diverge simultaneously between populations. Here we investigate the traits, genetic regions, and ecological variables that underlie Mimulus laciniatus adaptation to granite outcrops. We measure selection on flowering time, flower size, and leaf shape in a reciprocal transplant using M. laciniatus x M. guttatus F4 hybrids, test whether a previously mapped pleiotropic life-history quantitative trait locus (QTL) controls fitness in the field, and use fine scale measurements of soil moisture and herbivory to determine the environmental drivers of adaptation. We find that M. laciniatus and M. guttatus exhibit a fecundity trade-off, strong selection for earlier flowering in granite outcrops, and advantageous flowering time plasticity. The direction of selection differs before vs. after flowering on our life-history QTL, and differences in drought & herbivory drive survival differences between habitats. We conclude that M. laciniatus and M. guttatus are locally adapted to dramatically different microhabitats. While early flowering time underlies plant fitness in M. laciniatus seasonally dry environment, herbivore resistance and plant size are advantageous in a competitive mesic environment like M. guttatus.', u'/content/early/2016/12/04/091538', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of California Davis;', u'Duke University']]
[u'Precise Quantification of Translation Inhibition by mRNA Structures that Overlap with the Ribosomal Footprint in N-terminal Coding Sequences', ['Amin Espah Borujeni', 'Daniel Cetnar', 'Iman Farasat', 'Ashlee Smith', 'Natasha Lundgren', 'Howard M Salis'], u'December 4, 2016.', u"A mRNA's translation rate is controlled by several sequence determinants, including the presence of RNA structures within the N-terminal regions of its coding sequences. However, the physical rules that govern when such mRNA structures will inhibit translation remain unclear. Here, we introduced systematically designed RNA hairpins into the N-terminal coding region of a reporter protein with steadily increasing distances from the start codon, followed by characterization of their mRNA and expression levels in E. coli. We found that the mRNAs' translation rates were repressed, by up to 1410-fold, when mRNA structures overlapped with the ribosome's footprint. In contrast, when the mRNA structure was located outside the ribosome's footprint, translation was repressed by less than 2-fold. By combining our measurements with biophysical modeling, we determined that the ribosomal footprint extends 13 nucleotides into the N-terminal coding region and, when a mRNA structure overlaps or partially overlaps with the ribosomal footprint, the free energy to unfold only the overlapping structure controlled the extent of translation repression. Overall, our results provide precise quantification of the rules governing translation initiation at N-terminal coding regions, improving the predictive design of post-transcriptional regulatory elements that regulate translation rate.", u'/content/early/2016/12/04/091470', [u'Genetics'], [u'Pennsylvania State University']]
[u'Life Cycle Perspectives on Human Health Impacts of Ionic Liquids', ['Amirhossein Mehrkesh', 'Arunprakash T Karunanithi'], u'December 4, 2016.', u'This study aims to develop a correlative approach to predict the non-cancer human health impacts associated with the direct environmental exposure of common ionic liquids. We assessed the human health impact of these ionic liquids through the integration of the USEtox model with toxicity data and fate and transport parameters. For the first time, we report non-cancer human health characterization factors for commonly used ionic liquids. On the one hand, literature related to environmental aspects of ionic liquids either promotes their environmentally friendly green aspects due to their negligible volatility (no air emissions). On the other hand, a great deal of literature promotes their non-green aspects due to the high toxicity values of certain ionic liquids towards living organisms. In this study, we attempt to integrate these two different diverging opinions to look at the concept of the greenness of ionic liquids from a larger point of view (i.e. from a life cycle assessment perspective).', u'/content/early/2016/12/04/091454', [u'Pharmacology and Toxicology'], [u'University of Colorado Denver']]
[u'Mitogenome and nuclear DNA differentiation in spinner (Stenella longirostris) and pantropical spotted dolphins (S. attenuata) from the eastern tropical Pacific Ocean', ['Matthew S. Leslie', 'Frederick I. Archer', 'Phillip A. Morin'], u'December 4, 2016.', u'Endemic subspecies and multiple stocks have been proposed for spinner (Stenella longirostris) and spotted dolphins (Stenella attenuata), two species with historically high mortality due to bycatch in the eastern tropical Pacific yellowfin tuna fishery. However, there has been low statistical power in tests for genetic differentiation among most of these stocks, due to large historical abundances, ongoing gene flow, and recent divergence. We tested for structure at multiple hierarchical levels by collecting whole mitochondrial genome sequences (mtDNA) and nuclear SNPs (nuDNA) from 104 spinner and 76 spotted dolphins using capture array library enrichment and highly paralleled DNA sequencing. MtDNA showed weak but significant differences between subspecies of spotted (FST: 0.0125; P =  0.0402) and spinner dolphins (FST: 0.0133; P =  0.034). NuDNA supported subspecies of spotted but not spinner dolphins. Relatively strong and significant differentiation was detected between whitebelly and eastern spinner stocks using nuDNA (FST: 0.0297; P =  0.0059). Neither mtDNA nor nuDNA supported the division of existing offshore stocks of spotted dolphins or Tres Marias spinner dolphins. This work identifies a genetic basis for biologically meaningful management units of these two species, a critical component in understanding their response in the face of historical and continued fishery interactions.', u'/content/early/2016/12/04/091215', [u'Zoology'], [u'Scripps Institution of Oceanography, University of California San Diego;', u'Southwest Fisheries Science Center, National Marine Fisheries Service, NOAA']]
[u'Microbial regime changes and indicators of eutrophication on the Mississippi River identified via a human-powered 2900 km transect', ['Michael W Henson', 'Jordan Hanssen', 'Greg Spooner', 'Patrick Flemming', 'Markus Pukonen', 'Fedrick Stahr', 'J. Cameron Thrash'], u'December 4, 2016.', u'Draining 31 states and roughly 3 million km2, the Mississippi River (MSR) and its tributaries constitute an essential resource to millions of people for clean drinking water, transportation, agriculture, and industry. Since the turn of the 20th century, MSR water quality has continually rated poorly due to human activity. Acting as first responders, microorganisms can mitigate, exacerbate, and/or serve as predictors for water quality, yet we know little about their community structure or ecology at the whole river scale for large rivers. We collected 16S and 18S rRNA gene amplicons and physicochemical samples from 38 MSR sites over nearly 3000 km from Minnesota to the Gulf of Mexico. These data represent the first of their kind for a major river and revealed distinct regime changes between upper and lower MSR microbial communities that corresponded to Strahler\u2032s river order and nutrient concentrations. Within these assemblages, we identified subgroups of OTUs from the phyla Acidobacteria, Bacteroidetes, and Heterokonts that highly correlated with, and were predictive of, important eutrophication nutrients. This study offers the most comprehensive view of Mississippi River microbiota to date, establishes the groundwork for future temporal and spatial studies of river perturbations, and provides potential microbial indicators of river health.', u'/content/early/2016/12/04/091512', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Louisiana State University;', u'OAR Northwest;', u'University of Washington']]
[u'mRNA turnover through CDS-targeting is the primary role of miRNA in the green alga Chlamydomonas.', ['Betty YW Chung', 'Mike J Deery', 'Arnoud J Groen', 'Julie Howard', 'David C Baulcombe'], u'December 4, 2016.', u"MicroRNAs regulate gene expression as part of the RNA-induced silencing complex, where the sequence identity of the miRNA provides the specificity to the target messenger RNA, and the result is target repression. The mode of repression can be through target cleavage, RNA destabilization and/or decreased translational efficiency. Here, we provide a comprehensive global analysis of the evolutionarily distant (from higher plants) unicellular green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii to quantify the effects of miRNA on protein synthesis and RNA abundance. We show that, similar to metazoan systems, miRNAs in Chlamydomonas regulate gene-expression primarily by destabilizing mRNAs. However, unlike metazoan miRNA where target site utilization localizes mainly to 3'UTRs, in Chlamydomonas utilized target sites lie predominantly within coding regions. These results demonstrate that destabilization of mRNA is the main evolutionarily conserved mode of action for miRNAs, but details of the mechanism diverge between plant and metazoan kingdoms.", u'/content/early/2016/12/04/088807', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'University of Cambridge']]
[u'Cerebellar anodal tDCS increases implicit visuomotor remapping when strategic re-aiming is suppressed', ['Li-Ann Leow', 'Welber Marinovic', 'Stephan Riek', 'Timothy Carroll'], u'December 4, 2016.', u'The cerebellum is known to be critically involved in sensorimotor adaptation. Changes in cerebellar function alter behaviour when compensating for sensorimotor perturbations, as shown by non-invasive stimulation of the cerebellum and studies involving patients with cerebellar degeneration. It is known, however, that behavioural responses to sensorimotor perturbations reflect both explicit processes (such as volitional aiming to one side of a target to counteract a rotation of visual feedback) and implicit, error-driven updating of sensorimotor maps. The contribution of the cerebellum to these explicit and implicit processes remains unclear. Here, we examined the role of the cerebellum in sensorimotor adaptation to a 30 degree rotation of visual feedback of hand position during target-reaching, when the capacity to use explicit processes was manipulated by controlling movement preparation times. Explicit re-aiming was suppressed in one condition by requiring subjects to initiate their movements within 300ms of target presentation, and permitted in another condition by requiring subjects to wait approximately 1050ms after target presentation before movement initiation. Similar to previous work, applying anodal transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS; 1.5mA) to the right cerebellum during adaptation resulted in faster compensation for errors imposed by the rotation. After exposure to the rotation, we evaluated implicit remapping in no-feedback trials after providing participants with explicit knowledge that the rotation had been removed. Crucially, movements were more adapted in these no-feedback trials following cerebellar anodal tDCS than after sham stimulation in both long and short preparation groups. This suggests that cerebellar anodal tDCS increased implicit remapping during sensorimotor adaptation irrespective of preparation time constraints. This work shows that the cerebellum is critical in the formation of new visuomotor maps that correct perturbations in sensory feedback, both when explicit processes are suppressed and when allowed during sensorimotor adaptation.', u'/content/early/2016/12/04/091397', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'The University of Queensland;', u'Curtin University']]
