[u'Mutations in EBF3 disturb transcriptional profiles and underlie a novel syndrome of intellectual disability, ataxia and facial dysmorphism', ['Frederike Leonie Harms', 'Katta Mohan Girisha', 'Andrew Alexander Hardigan', 'Fanny Kortum', 'Anju Shukla', 'Malik Alawi', 'Ashwin Dalal', 'Lauren Brady', 'Mark Tarnopolsky', 'Lynne M. Bird', 'Sophia Ceulemans', 'Martina Bebin', 'Kevin M. Bowling', 'Susan M. Hiatt', 'Edward J. Lose', 'Michelle Primiano', 'Wendy K. Chung', 'Jane Juusola', 'Zeynep C. Akdemir', 'Matthew Bainbridge', 'Wu-Lin Charng', 'Margaret Drummond-Borg', 'Mohammad K. Eldomery', 'Ayman W. El-Hattab', 'Mohammed A.M. Saleh', 'Stephane Bezieau', 'Benjamin Cogne', 'Bertrand Isidor', 'Sebastien Kury', 'James R. Lupski', 'Richard M. Myers', 'Gregory M. Cooper', 'Kerstin Kutsche'], u'August 3, 2016.', u'From a GeneMatcher-enabled international collaboration, we identified ten individuals with intellectual disability, speech delay, ataxia and facial dysmorphism and a mutation in EBF3, encoding a transcription factor required for neuronal differentiation. Structural assessments, transactivation assays, in situ fractionation, RNA-seq and ChIP-seq experiments collectively show that the mutations are deleterious and impair EBF3 transcriptional regulation. These findings demonstrate that EBF3-mediated dysregulation of gene expression has profound effects on neuronal development in humans.', u'/content/early/2016/08/03/067454', [], [u'Institute of Human Genetics, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany;', u'Department of Medical Genetics, Kasturba Medical College, Manipal University, Maniple, India;', u'HudsonAlpha Institute for Biotechnology, Huntsville, AL USA;', u'University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Bioinformatics Service Facility, Hamburg, Germany;', u'Diagnostics Division, Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics, Hyderabad, Telangana, India;', u'Department of Pediatrics, McMaster University Medical Center, Hamilton, Ontario, L8N 3Z5, Canada;', u'Department of Pediatrics, University of California, San Diego, CA 92123, USA;', u'Department of Neurology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL USA;', u'Department of Genetics, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL USA;', u'Department of Pediatrics and Medicine, Columbia University, New York NY 10032, USA;', u'GeneDx, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, USA;', u'Department of Molecular and Human Genetics, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX 77030, USA;', u'Human Genome Sequencing Center, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas, USA;', u'Cook Childrens Genetic Clinic, Fort Worth, Texas, USA;', u'Department of Pediatrics, Tawam Hospital, Al-Ain, United Arab Emirates;', u"Section of Medical Genetics, Children's Hospital, King Fahad Medical City, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia;", u'CHU Nantes, Service de Genetique Medicale, Nantes CEDEX 1, France;', u'Department of Molecular and Human Genetics, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX']]
[u'rehh 2.0: a reimplementation of the R package rehh to detect positive selection from haplotype structure.', ['Mathieu Gautier', 'Alexander Klassmann', 'Renaud Vitalis'], u'August 3, 2016.', u"Identifying genomic regions with unusually high local haplotype homozygosity represents a powerful strategy to characterize candidate genes responding to natural or artificial positive selection. To that end, statistics measuring the extent of haplotype homozygosity within (e.g., EHH, IHS) and between (Rsb or XP-EHH) populations have been proposed in the literature. The rehh package for R was previously developed to facilitate genome-wide scans of selection, based on the analysis of long-range haplotypes. However, its performance wasn't sufficient to cope with the growing size of available data sets. Here we propose a major upgrade of the rehh package, which includes an improved processing of the input files, a faster algorithm to enumerate haplotypes, as well as multi-threading. As illustrated with the analysis of large human haplotype data sets, these improvements decrease the computation time by more than an order of magnitude. This new version of rehh will thus allow performing iHS-, Rsb- or XP-EHH-based scans on large data sets.   \nThe package rehh 2.0 is available from the CRAN repository (http://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/rehh/index.html) together with help files and a detailed manual.", u'/content/early/2016/08/03/067629', [], [u'INRA;', u'University of Koln']]
[u'Conservation of co-evolving protein interfaces bridges prokaryote-eukaryote homologies in the twilight zone', ['Juan Rodriguez-Rivas', 'Simone Marsili', 'David Juan', 'Alfonso Valencia'], u'August 3, 2016.', u'Protein-protein interactions are fundamental for the proper functioning of the cell. As a result, protein interaction surfaces are subject to strong evolutionary constraints. Recent developments have shown that residue co-evolution provides accurate predictions of heterodimeric protein interfaces from sequence information. So far these approaches have been limited to the analysis of families of prokaryotic complexes for which large multiple sequence alignments of homologous sequences can be compiled. We explore the hypothesis that co-evolution points to structurally conserved contacts at protein-protein interfaces, which can be reliably projected to homologous complexes with distantly related sequences. We introduce a novel domain-centred protocol to study the interplay between residue co-evolution and structural conservation of protein-protein interfaces. We show that sequence-based co-evolutionary analysis systematically identifies residue contacts at prokaryotic interfaces that are structurally conserved at the interface of their eukaryotic counterparts. In turn, this allows the prediction of conserved contacts at eukaryotic protein-protein interfaces with high confidence using solely mutational patterns extracted from prokaryotic genomes. Even in the context of high divergence in sequence (the twilight zone), where standard homology modelling of protein complexes is unreliable, our approach provides sequence-based accurate information about specific details of protein interactions at the residues level. Selected examples of the application of prokaryotic co-evolutionary analysis to the prediction of eukaryotic interfaces further illustrates the potential of this novel approach.', u'/content/early/2016/08/03/067587', [], [u'Spanish National Cancer Research Centre']]
[u'Rapid resistome mapping using nanopore sequencing', ['Eric van der Helm', 'Lejla Imamovic', 'Mostafa M. Hashim Ellabaan', 'Anna Koza', 'Morten Otto Alexander O. A. Sommer'], u'August 3, 2016.', u'The emergence of antibiotic resistance in human pathogens has become a major threat to modern medicine and in particular hospitalized patients. The outcome of antibiotic treatment can be affected by the composition of the gut resistome either by enabling resistance gene acquisition of infecting pathogens or by modulating the collateral effects of antibiotic treatment on the commensal microbiome. Accordingly, knowledge of the gut resistome composition could enable more effective and individualized treatment of bacterial infections. Yet, rapid workflows for resistome characterization are lacking. To address this challenge we developed the poreFUME workflow that deploys functional metagenomic selections and nanopore sequencing to resistome mapping. We demonstrate the approach by functionally characterizing the gut resistome of an ICU patient. The accuracy of the poreFUME pipeline is >97 % sufficient for the reliable annotation of antibiotic resistance genes.  The poreFUME pipeline provides a promising approach for efficient resistome profiling that could inform antibiotic treatment decisions in the future.', u'/content/early/2016/08/03/067652', [], [u'Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Biosustainability at the Technical University of Denmark']]
[u'GSuite HyperBrowser: integrative analysis of dataset collections across the genome and epigenome', ['Boris Simovski', 'Daniel Vodak', 'Sveinung Gundersen', 'Diana Domanska', 'Abdulrahman Azab', 'Lars Holden', 'Marit Holden', 'Ivar Grytten', 'Knut Dagestad Rand', 'Finn Drablos', 'Morten Johansen', 'Antonio Mora', 'Christin Lund-Andersen', 'Bastian Fromm', 'Ragnhild Eskeland', 'Odd Stokke Gabrielsen', 'Sigve Nakken', 'Mads Bengtsen', 'Alexander Johan Nederbragt', 'Hildur Sif Thorarensen', 'Johannes Andreas Akse', 'Ingrid Glad', 'Eivind Hovig', 'Geir Kjetil Sandve'], u'August 3, 2016.', u'Genome-wide, cell-type-specific profiles are being systematically generated for numerous genomic and epigenomic features. There is, however, no universally applicable analytical methodology for such data. We present GSuite HyperBrowser, the first comprehensive solution for integrative analysis of dataset collections across the genome and epigenome. The GSuite HyperBrowser is an open-source system for streamlined acquisition and customizable statistical analysis of large collections of genome-wide datasets. The system is based on new computational and statistical methodologies that permit comparative and confirmatory analyses across multiple disparate data sources. Expert guidance and reproducibility are facilitated via a Galaxy-based web-interface. The software is available at https://hyperbrowser.uio.no/gsuite', u'/content/early/2016/08/03/067561', [], [u'University of Oslo;', u'Norwegian Computing Center;', u'NTNU - Norwegian University of Science and Technology;', u'Oslo University Hospital']]
[u'DIABLO - an integrative, multi-omics, multivariate method for multi-group classification', ['Amrit Singh', 'Benoit Gautier', 'Casey P. Shannon', 'Michael Vacher', 'Florian Rohart', 'Scott J Tebutt', 'Kim-Anh Le Cao'], u'August 3, 2016.', u'Rapid advances in technology have led to a wealth of large-scale molecular omics datasets. Integrating such data offers an unprecedented opportunity to assess molecular interactions at multiple functional levels and provide a more comprehensive understanding of the biological pathways involved in different diseases subgroups. However, multiple omics data integration is a challenging task due to the heterogeneity in the different platforms used. There is a need to address the complex and correlated nature of different data-types, in order to identify a robust and reliable multi-omics signature that can predict a phenotype of interest. \nWe introduce a novel multivariate dimension reduction method for multiple omics integration, classification and identification of a multi-omics molecular signature. DIABLO - Data Integration Analysis for Biomarker discovery using a Latent component method for Omics studies, models the correlation structure between omics datasets, resulting in an improved ability to associate biomarkers across multiple functional levels to phenotypes of interest. We demonstrate the capabilities of DIABLO using simulated data and studies of breast cancer and asthma, integrating up to four types of omics datasets to identify relevant biomarkers, while still retaining competitive classification and predictive performance compared to existing methods.\nOur statistical integrative framework can benefit a diverse range of research areas with varying types of study designs, as well as enabling module-based analyses. Importantly, graphical outputs of our method assist in the interpretation of such complex analyses and provide significant biological insights.', u'/content/early/2016/08/03/067611', [], [u'University of British Columbia;', u'The University of Queensland Diamantina Institute;', u'PROOF Centre;', u'The University of Western Australia']]
[u'Habits without Values', ['Kevin Miller', 'Amitai Shenhav', 'Elliot Ludvig'], u'August 3, 2016.', u'Habits form a crucial component of behavior. In recent years, key computational models have conceptualized habits as behaviors arising from model-free reinforcement learning (RL) mechanisms, which typically represent the expected value associated with possible outcomes of each action before one of those actions is chosen. Traditionally, however, habits are understood as arising from mechanisms that are independent of outcomes. Here, we develop a computational model instantiating this traditional view, in which habits are acquired through the direct strengthening of recently taken actions, independent of outcome. We demonstrate how this model accounts for key behavioral manifestations of habits, including outcome devaluation, contingency degradation, and perseverative choice in probabilistic environments. We suggest that mapping habitual behaviors onto value-free mechanisms provides a parsimonious account of existing behavioral and neural data. This mapping may provide a new foundation for building robust and comprehensive models of the interaction of habits with other, more goal-directed types of behaviors, and help to better guide research into the neural mechanisms underlying control of instrumental behaviors more generally.', u'/content/early/2016/08/03/067603', [], [u'Princeton University;', u'Brown University;', u'University of Warwick']]
[u'Pollutants and insecticides drive local adaptation in African malaria mosquitoes', ['Colince Kamdem', 'Caroline Fouet', 'Stephanie Gamez', 'Bradley J White'], u'August 3, 2016.', u'Urbanization presents unique environmental challenges to human commensal species. The Afrotropical Anopheles gambiae complex contains a number of synanthropic mosquito species that are major vectors of malaria. To examine ongoing cryptic diversification within the complex, we performed reduced representation sequencing on 941 mosquitoes collected across four ecogeographic zones in Cameroon. We find evidence for clear subdivision within An. coluzzii and An. gambiae s.s. - the two most significant malaria vectors in the region. Importantly, in both species rural and urban populations of mosquitoes were genetically differentiated. Genome scans of cryptic subgroups reveal pervasive signatures of selection centered on genes involved in xenobiotic resistance. Notably, a selective sweep containing eight detoxification enzymes is unique to urban mosquitoes that exploit polluted breeding sites. Overall, our study reveals that anthropogenic environmental modification is driving population differentiation and local adaptation in African malaria mosquitoes with potentially significant consequences for malaria epidemiology.', u'/content/early/2016/08/03/067660', [], [u'University of California Riverside']]
[u'Local expectation violations result in global activity gain in primary visual cortex', ['Peter Kok', 'Lieke L.F. van Lieshout', 'Floris P. de Lange'], u'August 3, 2016.', u'During natural perception, we often form expectations about upcoming input. These expectations are usually multifaceted - we expect a particular object at a particular location. However, expectations about spatial location and stimulus features have mostly been studied in isolation, and it is unclear whether feature-based expectation can be spatially specific. Interestingly, feature-based attention automatically spreads to unattended locations. It is still an open question whether the neural mechanisms underlying feature-based expectation differ from those underlying feature-based attention. Therefore, establishing whether the effects of feature-based expectation are spatially specific may inform this debate. Here, we investigated this by inducing expectations of a specific stimulus feature at a specific location, and probing the effects on sensory processing across the visual field using fMRI. We found an enhanced sensory response for unexpected stimuli, which was elicited only when there was a violation of expectation at the specific location where participants formed a stimulus expectation. The neural consequences of this expectation violation, however, spread to cortical locations processing the stimulus in the opposite hemifield. This suggests that an expectation violation at one location in the visual world can lead to a spatially non-specific gain increase across the visual field.', u'/content/early/2016/08/03/067579', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Princeton University;', u'Radboud University']]
[u'NUCLEAR FACTOR Y, subunit A (NF-YA) proteins positively regulate flowering and act through FLOWERING LOCUS T', ['Chamindika Siriwardana', 'Nerina Gnesutta', 'Roderick Kumimoto', 'Daniel Jones', 'Zachary Myers', 'Roberto Mantovani', 'Ben F Holt'], u'August 3, 2016.', u'Photoperiod dependent flowering is one of several mechanisms used by plants to initiate the developmental transition from vegetative growth to reproductive growth. The NUCLEAR FACTOR Y (NF-Y) transcription factors are heterotrimeric complexes composed of NF-YA and histone-fold domain (HFD) containing NF-YB/NF-YC, that initiate photoperiod-dependent flowering by cooperatively interacting with CONSTANS (CO) to drive the expression of FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT). This involves NF-Y and CO binding at distal CCAAT and proximal CORE elements, respectively, in the FT promoter. While this is well established for the HFD subunits, there remains some question over the potential role of NF-YA as either positive or negative regulators of this process. Here we provide strong support, in the form of genetic and biochemical analyses, that NF-YA, in complex with NF-YB/NF-YC proteins, can directly bind the distal CCAAT box in the FT promoter and are positive regulators of flowering in an FT-dependent manner.', u'/content/early/2016/08/03/066399', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'University of Oklahoma;', u'Universita degli Studi di Milano;', u'University of California - Davis']]
[u'Morphometric analysis of Passiflora leaves II: divergent heteroblastic trajectories underlie the disparate leaf shapes among Passiflora species', ['Daniel H Chitwood', 'Wagner C Otoni'], u'August 3, 2016.', u'BACKGROUND: Not only does leaf shape vary between Passiflora species, but between sequential nodes of the vine. The often profound changes in leaf shape within Passiflora vines reflect the temporal development of the shoot apical meristem from which leaves are derived and patterned, a phenomenon known as heteroblasty.\n\nRESULTS: Here, we continue a morphometric analysis of >3,300 leaves from 40 different Passiflora species using two different methods: homologous landmarks and Elliptical Fourier Descriptors (EFDs). Changes in leaf shape across the vine are first quantified in allometric terms; that is, changes in the relative area of leaf sub-regions expressed in terms of overall leaf area. The ability of different nodes to predictively discriminate species and the variability of landmark and EFD traits at each node is then analyzed. Heteroblastic trajectories, the changes in leaf shape between the first and last measured leaves in a vine, are then compared between species in a multivariate space.\n\nCONCLUSIONS: Leaf shape diversity among Passiflora species is expressed in a heteroblastic-dependent manner. Leaf shape between species and across the heteroblastic series is constrained by allometric relationships. The first leaves in the series are not only more similar to each other, but are also less variable across species. From this similar, shared leaf shape, subsequent leaves in the heteroblastic series follow divergent morphological trajectories, creating the disparate shapes characteristic of Passiflora leaf shape diversity.\n\nThis manuscript is the second of two companion pieces, the first describing the relationship between vascular landmarks and EFDs of the blade.', u'/content/early/2016/08/03/067520', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Donald Danforth Plant Science Center;', u'Universidade Federal de Vicosa']]
[u'Morphometric analysis of Passiflora leaves I: the relationship between landmarks of the vasculature and elliptical Fourier descriptors of the blade', ['Daniel H Chitwood', 'Wagner C Otoni'], u'August 3, 2016.', u'BACKGROUND: Leaf shape among Passiflora species is spectacularly diverse. Underlying this diversity in leaf shape are profound changes in the patterning of the primary vasculature and laminar outgrowth. Each of these aspects of leaf morphology--vasculature and blade--provides different insights into leaf patterning.\n\nRESULTS: Here, we morphometrically analyze >3,300 leaves from 40 different Passiflora species collected sequentially across the vine. Each leaf is measured in two different ways: using 1) 15 homologous Procrustes-adjusted landmarks of the vasculature, sinuses, and lobes and 2) Elliptical Fourier Descriptors (EFDs), which quantify the outline of the leaf. The ability of landmarks, EFDs, and both datasets together are compared to determine their relative ability to predict species and node position within the vine. Pairwise correlation of x and y landmark coordinates and EFD harmonic coefficients reveals close associations between traits and insights into the relationship between vasculature and blade patterning.\n\nCONCLUSIONS: Landmarks, more reflective of the vasculature, and EFDs, more reflective of the blade contour, describe both similar and distinct features of leaf morphology. Landmarks and EFDs vary in ability to predict species identity and node position in the vine and exhibit a correlational structure (both within landmark or EFD traits and between the two data types) revealing constraints between vascular and blade patterning underlying natural variation in leaf morphology among Passiflora species.\n\nThis manuscript is the first of two companion pieces, the second describing divergent heteroblastic trajectories underlying the disparate leaf shapes among Passiflora species.', u'/content/early/2016/08/03/067512', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Donald Danforth Plant Science Center;', u'Universidade Federal de Vicosa']]
[u'Sequence elimination in hybrid offspring of wheat-Agropyron cristatum (L.) Gaertn introgression line Pubing3504 \xd7 common wheat cultivar Jing4839', ['Wu Xiaoyang', 'Chen Dan', 'Lu Yuqing', 'Zhang Jinpeng', 'Liu Weihua', 'Yang Xinming', 'Li Xiuquan', 'Du Juan', 'Li Lihui'], u'August 3, 2016.', u'Sequence elimination is one of main reasons for homologous chromosome differentiation in common wheat. Sequence elimination can occur in genome-specific sequences, chromosome-specific sequences, and repeat sequences in the wheat genome. Genetic polymorphism loci in chromosome-specific sequences can be used to develop molecular markers including simple sequence repeats (SSRs), insertions and deletions, and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). Pubing3504 is a wheat-Agropyron cristatum (L.) Gaertn introgression line, and Jing4839 is a common wheat cultivar. Assessment of their recombinant inbred line (RIL) population using 120 pairs of SSR markers covering all wheat chromosomes indicated that sequence elimination occurred at the short arm of chromosome 1A (1AS). We developed 13 pairs of new co-dominant SSR markers and constructed a genetic linkage map of 1AS; we found that the segment with sequence elimination is from SSR110 to the end of 1AS. We further developed 10 pairs of dominant SNP markers of Pubing3504, 10 pairs of dominant SNP markers of Jing4839, and 10 pairs of primers designed in SNP flanking sequences to assess RILs. We found that all chromosome segments with sequence elimination came from Jing4839. The sequence elimination occurred in SSR loci, SNP loci, and coding sequences. There was no homologous recombination in the chromosome segment with sequence elimination. We suggest that sequence elimination causes the differentiation of chromosomes and the chromosome differentiation affects the homologous pairing at the chromosome segment in meiosis, which further affects the occurrence of homologous recombination at the chromosome segment.', u'/content/early/2016/08/03/067504', [u'Genomics'], [u'Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, China']]
