[u'Combining phenotypic and genomic approaches reveals no evidence for adaptation to the local mutualist in Medicago lupulina', ['Tia Harrison', 'Corlett Wood', 'Isabela Borges', 'John Stinchcombe'], u'September 30, 2016.', u'Local adaptation is a common but not ubiquitous feature of species interactions, and understanding the circumstances under which it evolves illuminates the factors that influence adaptive population divergence. Antagonistic species interactions dominate the local adaptation literature relative to mutualistic ones, preventing an overall assessment of adaptation within interspecific interactions. Here, we tested whether the legume Medicago lupulina is locally adapted to two species of mutualistic nitrogen-fixing rhizobial bacteria that vary in frequency across its eastern North American range. We reciprocally inoculated northern and southern M. lupulina genotypes with the northern (Ensifer medicae) or southern bacterium (E. meliloti) in a greenhouse experiment, and performed a genome scan for loci that showed elevated differentiation between field-collected plants that hosted different bacteria. Despite producing different numbers of root nodules (the structures in which the plants house the bacteria), neither northern nor southern plants produced more seeds, flowered earlier, or were more likely to flower when inoculated with their local rhizobia. None of the loci identified in our genomic analysis belonged to the well-characterized suite of legume-rhizobia symbiosis genes, suggesting that the rhizobia do not drive genetic divergence between M. lupulina populations. Our results demonstrate that local adaptation has not evolved in this mutualism despite large-scale geographic variation in the identity of the interacting species.', u'/content/early/2016/09/30/078675', [], [u'University of Toronto']]
[u'Identifying cis-mediators for trans-eQTLs across many human tissues using genomic mediation analysis', ['Fan Yang', 'Jiebiao Wang', 'Brandon L. Pierce', 'Lin S. Chen'], u'September 30, 2016.', u'The impact of inherited genetic variation on gene expression in humans is well-established.  The majority of known expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) impact expression of local genes (cis-eQTLs); more research is needed to identify effects of genetic variation on distant genes (trans-eQTLs) and understand the biological mechanisms.  One common trans-eQTLs mechanism is \u201cmediation\u201d by a local (cis) transcript. Thus, mediation analysis can be applied to genome-wide SNP and expression data in order to identify transcripts that are \u201ccis-mediators\u201d of trans-eQTLs, including those \u201ccis-hubs\u201d involved in regulation of many trans-genes.  Identifying such mediators helps us understand regulatory networks and suggests biological mechanisms underlying trans-eQTLs, both of which are relevant for understanding susceptibility to complex diseases. The multi-tissue expression data from the Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) program provides a unique opportunity to study cis-mediation across human tissue types. However, the presence of complex hidden confounding effects in biological systems can make mediation analyses challenging and prone to confounding bias, particularly when conducted among diverse samples.  To address this problem, we propose a new method: Genomic Mediation analysis with Adaptive Confounding adjustment (GMAC).  It enables the search of a very large pool of variables, and adaptively selects potential confounding variables for each mediation test. Analyses of simulated data and GTEx data demonstrate that the adaptive selection of confounders by GMAC improves the power and precision of mediation analysis. Application of GMAC to GTEx data provides new insights into the observed patterns of cis-hubs and trans-eQTL regulation across tissue types.', u'/content/early/2016/09/30/078683', [], [u'University of Chicago']]
[u'Kinematics of the Lever Arm Swing in Myosin VI', ['Mauro Mugnai', 'Dave Thirumalai'], u'September 30, 2016.', u'Myosin VI (MVI) is the only known member of the myosin superfamily that, upon dimerization, walks processively towards the pointed end of the actin filament.\nThe leading head of the dimer directs the trailing head forward with a power stroke, a conformational change of the motor domain exaggerated by the lever arm.\nUsing a new coarse-grained model for the power stroke of a single MVI, we provide the molecular basis for its motility.\nWe show that the power stroke occurs in two major steps: first, the motor domain attains the post-stroke conformation without directing the lever arm forward; second, the lever arm reaches the post-stroke orientation by undergoing a rotational diffusion.\nFrom the analysis of the trajectories, we discover that the potential that directs the rotating lever arm towards the post-stroke conformation is almost flat, implying that the lever arm rotation is mostly uncoupled from the motor domain.\nBecause a backward load comparable with the largest inter-head tension in a MVI dimer prevents the rotation of the lever arm, our model suggests that the leading-head lever arm of a MVI dimer is uncoupled, in accord with the inference drawn from polarized Total Internal Reflection Fluorescence (polTIRF) experiments.\nOur simulations are in quantitative agreement with polTIRF experiments, which validates our structural insights.\nFinally, we discuss the implications of our model in explaining the broad step-size distribution of MVI stepping pattern, and we make testable predictions.', u'/content/early/2016/09/30/078626', [], [u'The University of Texas at Austin']]
[u'Quantifying the regulatory effect size of cis-acting genetic variation using allelic fold change', ['Pejman Mohammadi', 'Stephane E Castel', 'Andrew A Brown', 'Tuuli Lappalainen'], u'September 30, 2016.', u'Mapping cis-acting expression quantitative trait loci (cis-eQTL) has become a popular approach for characterizing proximal genetic regulatory variants. However, measures used for quantifying the effect size of cis-eQTLs have been inconsistent and poorly defined. In this paper, we describe log allelic fold change (aFC) as a biologically interpretable and mathematically convenient unit that represents the magnitude of expression change associated with a given genetic variant. This measure is mathematically independent from expression level and allele frequency, applicable to multi-allelic variants, and generalizable to multiple independent variants. We provide tools and guidelines for estimating aFC from eQTL and allelic expression data sets, and apply it to GTEx data. We show that aFC estimates independently derived from eQTL and allelic expression data are highly consistent, and identify technical and biological correlates of eQTL effect size. We generalize aFC to analyze genes with two eQTLs in GTEx, and show that in nearly all cases these eQTLs are independent in their regulatory activity. In summary, aFC is a solid measure of cis-regulatory effect size that allows quantitative interpretation of cellular regulatory events from population data, and it is a valuable approach for investigating novel aspects of eQTL data sets.', u'/content/early/2016/09/30/078717', [], [u'New York Genome Center, and Columbia University, New York, NY;', u'Institute for Genetics and Genomics in Geneva (iGE3), University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland']]
[u'Real-time tagging of biomedical entities', ['Evangelos Pafilis', 'Lars Juhl Jensen'], u'September 30, 2016.', u'Automatic annotation of text is an important complement to manual annotation, because the latter is highly labor intensive. We have developed a fast dictionary-based named entity recognition system, which is used for both real-time and bulk processing of text in a variety of biomedical web resources. We propose to adapt the system to make it interoperable with the PubAnnotation and Open Annotation standards.', u'/content/early/2016/09/30/078469', [], [u'Hellenic Centre for Marine Research (HCMR);', u'University of Copenhagen']]
[u'Quality control analysis of the 1000 Genomes Project Omni2.5 genotypes', ['Nicole Roslin', 'Weili Li', 'Andrew D. Paterson', 'Lisa J. Strug'], u'September 30, 2016.', u'The 1000 Genomes Project genotyped 2318 individuals (48.1% male) from 19 populations in 5 continental groups on the Illumina Omni2.5 platform.  The data are publicly available, and will prove a valuable resource to obtain ethnic-specific allele frequencies, as well as exploring population histories through principal components analysis (PCA), estimation of inbreeding coefficients, and admixture analysis.  As in any study, the data should be cleaned prior to analysis, to remove individuals or markers of questionable quality.  Furthermore, a thorough understanding of the relationships between individuals must be established.  Here we report our findings after comprehensive examination of the data for quality control.\n\nThe basic quality of the genotypes was assessed using standard procedures.  KING version 1.4 was used to confirm the relationships in the provided pedigrees, and also to detect undeclared relationships.  PCA was used to examine the similarities and differences between individuals among and between population groups.\n\nIn general, the data was found to be of high quality.  No samples were removed due to low call rate (<97%) or excess heterozygosity.  Sex chromosome genotypes showed two individuals with discrepancies between reported and inferred sex, and were unable to determine sex in an additional 20 individuals; the sex for these was changed to unknown.  Relationship checking found discrepancies between first-degree relationships in the provided pedigrees and the genotypes in 10 families, including one instance where a reported pair/child pair was unrelated, two instances where full sibs were unrelated, and one set of three individuals who formed a newly defined trio.  A set of 1756 individuals who were inferred to be more distant than 3rd degree relatives was extracted and used in PCA.  These individuals clustered in a pattern that is consistent with other published reports of global populations.  We identified 4 individuals whose genotypes clustered more closely with a different geographic region than the one in the provided data.\n\nAlthough the genotype data is of high quality, errors exist in the publicly available dataset that require attention prior to using the genotypes.  PLINK-format files including SNPs with good quality metrics and revised pedigree structures is available at http://tcag.ca.  Files with distantly related or unrelated individuals, with sex inference consistent with provided gender, and with PCA consistent with continental group are also available.', u'/content/early/2016/09/30/078600', [], [u'Hospital for Sick Children;', u'The Centre for Applied Genomics, The Hospital for Sick Children;', u'The Hospital for Sick Children and University of Toronto']]
[u'Han Chinese males with surnames related to the legendary Huang and Yan Emperors are enriched for the top two Neolithic super-grandfather Y chromosomes O3a2c1a and O3a1c, respectively', ['Pei He', 'Zhengmao Hu', 'Zhobin Zhu', 'Kun Xia', 'Shi Huang'], u'September 30, 2016.', u'Most populations now use hereditary surnames, and most societies have patrilineal surnames. This naming system is believed to have started almost 5000 years ago in China. According to legends and ancient history books, there were Eight Great Xings of High Antiquity that were the ancestors of most Chinese surnames today and are thought to be descended from the two legendary prehistoric Emperors Yan and Huang. Recent work identified three Neolithic super-grandfathers represented by Y chromosome haplotypes, O3a1c, O3a2c1, and O3a2c1a, which makes it possible to test the tales of Yan-Huang and their descendant surnames. We performed two independent surveys of contemporary Han Chinese males (total number of subjects 2415) and divided the subjects into four groups based on the relationships of their surnames with the Eight Great Xings, Jiang (Yan), Ying (Huang), Ji(Huang), and Others (5 remaining Xings related to Huang). In both studies, we found that subjects with O3a1c were enriched with Jiang-related surnames and subjects with O3a2c1a were enriched with Ying-related surnames. Also, subjects with Jiang-related surnames were enriched with O3a1c and those with Ying-related surnames were enriched with O3a2c1a. Finally, subjects with O3a2c1 were slightly enriched for the Others-group, consistent with linking O3a2c1 to another legendary leader Chi You who lost to Huang and was largely ignored as an ancestor of Han on par with Yan and Huang. These results are remarkably consistent with historical writings on Yan and Huang and suggest that tales of Yan-Huang and their related-Xings and surnames may not be unrealistic.', u'/content/early/2016/09/30/077222', [], [u'Central South University']]
[u'Comparing multi- and single-sample variant calls to improve variant call sets from deep coverage whole-genome sequencing data', ['Suyash S. Shringarpure', 'Rasika A. Mathias', 'Ryan D Hernandez', "Timothy D. O'Connor", 'Zachary A. Szpiech', 'Raul Torres', 'Francisco M. De La Vega', 'Carlos D. Bustamante', 'Kathleen C. Barnes', 'Margaret A. Taub'], u'September 30, 2016.', u"Motivation: Variant calling from next-generation sequencing (NGS) data is susceptible to false positive calls due to sequencing, mapping and other errors. To better distinguish true from false positive calls, we present a method that uses genotype array data from the sequenced samples, rather than public data such as HapMap or dbSNP, to train an accurate classifier using Random Forests. We demonstrate our method on a set of variant calls obtained from 642 African-ancestry genomes from the The Consortium on Asthma among African-ancestry Populations in the Americas (CAAPA), sequenced to high depth (~30X).\n\nResults: We have applied our classifier to compare call sets generated with different calling methods, including both single-sample and multi-sample callers. At a False Positive Rate of 5%, our method determines true positive rates of 97.5%, 95% and 99% on variant calls obtained using Illumina's single-sample caller CASAVA, Real Time Genomics' multisample variant caller, and the GATK Unified Genotyper, respectively. Since most NGS sequencing data is accompanied by genotype data for the same samples, our method can be trained on each dataset to provide a more accurate computational validation of site calls compared to generic methods. Moreover, our method allows for adjustment based on allele frequency (e.g., a different set of criteria to determine quality for rare vs. common variants) and thereby provides insight into sequencing characteristics that indicate data quality for variants of different frequencies. \n\nAvailability: Code will be made available prior to publication on Github.", u'/content/early/2016/09/30/078642', [], [u'Stanford University;', u'Johns Hopkins University;', u'University of California San Francisco;', u'University of Maryland;', u'University of Colorado Denver']]
[u'Familial migration of the Neolithic contrasts massive male migration during Bronze Age in Europe inferred from ancient X chromosomes', ['Amy Goldberg', 'Torsten Gunther', 'Noah A Rosenberg', 'Mattias Jakobsson'], u'September 30, 2016.', u'Dramatic events in human prehistory, such as the spread of agriculture to Europe from Anatolia and the Late Neolithic/Bronze Age (LNBA) migration from the Pontic-Caspian steppe, can be investigated using patterns of genetic variation among the people that lived in those times. In particular, studies of differing female and male demographic histories on the basis of ancient genomes can provide information about complexities of social structures and cultural interactions in prehistoric populations. We use a mechanistic admixture model to compare the sex-specifically-inherited X chromosome to the autosomes in 20 early Neolithic and 16 LNBA human remains. Contrary to previous hypotheses suggested by the patrilocality of many agricultural populations, we find no evidence of sex-biased admixture during the migration that spread farming across Europe during the early Neolithic. For later migrations from the Pontic steppe during the LNBA, however, we estimate a dramatic male bias, with ~5-14 migrating males for every migrating female. We find evidence of ongoing, primarily male, migration from the steppe to central Europe over a period of multiple generations, with a level of sex bias that excludes a pulse migration during a single generation. The contrasting patterns of sex-specific migration during these two migrations suggest a view of differing cultural histories in which the Neolithic transition was driven by mass migration of both males and females in roughly equal numbers, perhaps whole families, whereas the later Bronze Age migration and cultural shift were instead driven by male migration, potentially connected to new technology and conquest.', u'/content/early/2016/09/30/078360', [], [u'Stanford University;', u'Uppsala University']]
[u'A Machine Learning-based Framework to Identify Type 2 Diabetes through Electronic Health Records', ['Tao Zheng', 'Wei Xie', 'Liling Xu', 'Xiaoying He', 'Ya Zhang', 'Mingrong You', 'Gong Yang', 'You Chen'], u'September 30, 2016.', u'Objective: To discover diverse genotype-phenotype associations affiliated with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (T2DM) via genome-wide association study (GWAS) and phenome-wide association study (PheWAS), more cases (T2DM subjects) and controls (subjects without T2DM) are required to be identified (e.g., via Electronic Health Records (EHR)). However, existing expert based identification algorithms often suffer in a low recall rate and could miss a large number of valuable samples under conservative filtering standards. The goal of this work is to develop a semi-automated framework based on machine learning as a pilot study to liberalize filtering criteria to improve recall rate with a keeping of low false positive rate. \nMaterials and Methods: We propose a data informed framework for identifying subjects with and without T2DM from EHR via feature engineering and machine learning. We evaluate and contrast the identification performance of widely-used machine learning models within our framework, including k-Nearest-Neighbors, Naive Bayes, Decision Tree, Random Forest, Support Vector Machine and Logistic Regression. Our framework was conducted on 300 patient samples (161 cases, 60 controls and 79 unconfirmed subjects), randomly selected from 23,281 diabetes related cohort retrieved from a regional distributed EHR repository ranging from 2012 to 2014.\nResults: We apply top-performing machine learning algorithms on the engineered features. We benchmark and contrast the accuracy, precision, AUC, sensitivity and specificity of classification models against the state-of-the-art expert algorithm for identification of T2DM subjects. Our results indicate that the framework achieved high identification performances (~0.98 in average AUC), which are much higher than the state-of-the-art algorithm (0.71 in AUC). \nDiscussion: Expert algorithm-based identification of T2DM subjects from EHR is often hampered by the high missing rates due to their conservative selection criteria. Our framework leverages machine learning and feature engineering to loosen such selection criteria to achieve a high identification rate of cases and controls.\nConclusions: Our proposed framework demonstrates a more accurate and efficient approach for identifying subjects with and without T2DM from EHR.', u'/content/early/2016/09/30/078634', [], [u'Shanghai Jiao Tong University; Tongren Hospital Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China;', u'Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, USA;', u'Tongren Hospital Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China;', u'The First Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou, China;', u'Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China']]
[u'Accuracy of demographic inferences from Site Frequency Spectrum: The case of the Yoruba population', ['Marguerite Lapierre', 'Amaury Lambert', 'Guillaume Achaz'], u'September 30, 2016.', u'Demographic inferences based on the observed genetic diversity of current populations rely on the use of summary statistics such as the Site Frequency Spectrum (SFS). Demographic models can be either model-constrained with numerous parameters such as growth rates, timing of demographic events and migration rates, or model-flexible, with an unbounded collection of piecewise constant sizes. It is still debated whether demographic histories can be accurately inferred based on the SFS. Here we illustrate this theoretical issue on an example of demographic inference for an African population. The SFS of the Yoruba population (data from the 1000 Genomes Project) fits to a simple model of population growth described with a single parameter (e.g., foundation time). We infer a time to the most recent common ancestor of 1.7 million years for this population. However, we show that the Yoruba SFS is not informative enough to discriminate between several different models of growth. We also show that for such simple demographies, the fit of one-parameter models outperforms the model-flexible method recently developed by Liu and Fu. The use of this method on simulated data suggests that it tends to overfit the noise intrinsically present in the data.', u'/content/early/2016/09/30/078618', [], [u"Mus\xe9um National d'Histoire Naturelle;", u'Universit\xe9 Paris 06']]
[u'Comparative analysis of variation and selection in the HCV genome', ['Juan Angel Patino Galindo', 'Fernando Gonzalez Candelas'], u'September 30, 2016.', u'Genotype 1 of the hepatitis C virus (HCV) is the most prevalent of the variants of this virus. Its two main subtypes, HCV-1a and HCV-1b, are associated to differences in epidemic features and risk groups, despite sharing similar features in most biological properties. We have analyzed the impact of positive selection on the evolution of these variants using complete genome coding regions, and compared the levels of genetic variability and the distribution of positively selected sites. We have also compared the distributions of positively selected and conserved sites considering different factors such as RNA secondary structure, the presence of different epitopes (antibody, CD4 and CD8), and secondary protein structure. Less than 10% of the genome was found to be under positive selection, and purifying selection was the main evolutionary force in both subtypes. We found differences in the number of positively selected sites between subtypes in several genes (Core, HVR2 in E2, P7, helicase in NS3 and NS4a). Heterozygosity values in positively selected sites and the rate of non-synonymous substitutions were significantly higher in subtype HCV-1b. Logistic regression analyses revealed that similar selective forces act at the genome level in both subtypes: RNA secondary structure and CD4 T-cell epitopes are associated with conservation, while CD8 T-cell epitopes are associated with positive selection in both subtypes. These results indicate that similar selective constraints are acting along HCV-1a and HCV-1 b genomes, despite some differences in the distribution of positively selected sites at independent genes.', u'/content/early/2016/09/30/078584', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Unidad Mixta Infeccion y Salud Publica FISABIO CSISP Universitat de Valencia, Instituto Cavanilles']]
[u'Mito-nuclear Incompatibilities and Mitochondrial Replacement Therapy', ['Adam Eyre-Walker'], u'September 30, 2016.', u'Mitochondrial replacement therapy (MRT) is a human reproductive technology by which the mitochondria of a recipient\'s eggs are effectively replaced by those of a donor, potentially eliminating harmful mitochondrial mutations carried by the recipient. However, concerns have been raised that MRT may lead to problems due to incompatibilities between the nuclear genome of the recipient and mitochondrial genome of the donor. Whether this is likely to be a problem is investigated using 226 estimates, taken from the literature, of the effect of replacing the "native" by a "foreign" mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) from the same species in a variety of animals. In approximately half of the cases (45%), strains with the foreign mtDNA have higher fitness than those with the native mtDNA, and on average the native strains are only 3% fitter. Based on these results it is argued that incompatibilities between the mitochondrial and nuclear genomes are not likely to be a problem for MRT.', u'/content/early/2016/09/30/078329', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Sussex']]
[u'MUMdex: MUM-based structural variation detection', ['Peter A Andrews', 'Ivan Iossifov', 'Jude Kendall', 'Steven Marks', 'Lakshmi Muthuswamy', 'Zihua Wang', 'Dan Levy', 'Michael Wigler'], u'September 30, 2016.', u'Motivation: Standard genome sequence alignment tools primarily designed to find one alignment per read have difficulty detecting inversion, translocation and large insertion and deletion (indel) events. Moreover, dedicated split read alignment methods that depend only upon the reference genome may misidentify or find too many potential split read alignments because of reference genome anomalies.\n\nMethods: We introduce MUMdex, a Maximal Unique Match (MUM)-based genomic analysis software package consisting of a sequence aligner to the reference genome, a storage-indexing format and analysis software. Discordant reference alignments of MUMs are especially suitable for identifying inversion, translocation and large indel differences in unique regions. Extracted population databases are used as filters for flaws in the reference genome. We describe the concepts underlying MUM-based analysis, the software implementation and its usage.\n\nResults: We demonstrate via simulation that the MUMdex aligner and alignment format are able to correctly detect and record genomic events. We characterize alignment performance and output file sizes for human whole genome data and compare to Bowtie 2 and the BAM format. Preliminary results demonstrate the practicality of the analysis approach by detecting de novo mutation candidates in human whole genome DNA sequence data from 510 families. We provide a population database of events from these families for use by others.', u'/content/early/2016/09/30/078261', [u'Genomics'], [u'Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory;', u'New York Genome Center']]
[u'Mitochondrial DNA Density Homeostasis Accounts for the Threshold Effect in Human Mitochondrial Disease', ['Juvid Aryaman', 'Iain G Johnston', 'Nick S Jones'], u'September 30, 2016.', u"Mitochondrial dysfunction is involved in a wide array of devastating diseases but the heterogeneity and complexity of these diseases' symptoms challenges theoretical understanding of their causation. With the explosion of -omics data, we have the unprecedented ability to gain deep understanding of the biochemical mechanisms of mitochondrial dysfunction. However, there is also a need to make such datasets interpretable, and quantitative modelling allows us to translate such datasets into intuition and suggest rational biomedical treatments. Working towards this interdisciplinary goal, we use a recently published large-scale dataset, and develop a mathematical model of progressive increase in mutant load of the MELAS 3243A>G mtDNA mutation to develop a descriptive and predictive biophysical model. The experimentally observed behaviour is surprisingly rich, but we find that a simple, biophysically-motivated model intuitively accounts for this heterogeneity and yields a wealth of biological predictions. Our findings suggest that cells attempt to maintain wild-type mtDNA density through cell volume reduction, and thus energy demand reduction, until a minimum cell volume is reached. Thereafter, cells toggle from demand reduction to supply increase, upregulating energy production pathways. Our analysis provides further evidence for the physiological significance of mtDNA density, and emphasizes the need for performing single-cell volume measurements jointly with mtDNA quantification. We propose novel experiments to verify the hypotheses made here, to further develop our understanding of the threshold effect, and connect with rational choices for mtDNA disease therapies.", u'/content/early/2016/09/30/078519', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Imperial College London;', u'University of Birmingham']]
[u'Quantifying the evolutionary potential and constraints of a drug-targeted viral protein', ['Lei Dai', 'Yushen Du', 'Hangfei Qi', 'Nicholas C Wu', 'James O Lloyd-Smith', 'Ren Sun'], u'September 30, 2016.', u'RNA viruses are most notorious for their ability to evolve rapidly under novel environments. It is known that the high mutation rate of RNA viruses can generate huge genetic diversity to facilitate viral adaptation. However, less attention has been paid to the underlying fitness landscape that represents the selection forces on viral genomes. Here we systematically quantified the distribution of fitness effects (DFE) of single amino acid substitutions (86 amino acids total) in the drug-targeted region of NS5A protein of Hepatitis C Virus (HCV). We found that the majority of non-synonymous substitutions incur large fitness costs, suggesting that NS5A protein is highly optimized in natural conditions. Furthermore, we characterized the evolutionary potential of HCV by subjecting the mutant viruses to varying concentrations of an NS5A inhibitor Daclatasvir. As the selection pressure increases, the DFE of beneficial mutations shifts from an exponential distribution to a heavy-tailed distribution with a disproportionate number of exceptionally fit mutants. The number of available beneficial mutations and the selection coefficient are both found to increase at higher levels of antiviral drug concentration, as predicted by a pharmacodynamics model describing viral fitness as a function of drug concentration. Our large-scale fitness data of mutant viruses also provide insights into the biophysical basis of evolutionary constraints and the role of the genetic code in protein evolution.', u'/content/early/2016/09/30/078428', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of California, Los Angeles']]
[u'Quantitative Seq-LGS: Genome-Wide Identification of Genetic Drivers of Multiple Phenotypes in Malaria Parasites', ['Hussein Abkallo', 'Axel Martinelli', 'Megumi Inoue', 'Abhinay Ramaprasad', 'Phonepadith Xangsayarath', 'Jesse Gitaka', 'Jianxia Tang', 'Kazuhide Yahata', 'Augustin Zoungrana', 'Hayato Mitaka', 'Paul Hunt', 'Richard Carter', 'Osamu Kaneko', 'Ville Mustonen', 'Christopher JR Illingworth', 'Arnab Pain', 'Richard Culleton'], u'September 30, 2016.', u'Identifying the genetic determinants of phenotypes that impact on disease severity is of fundamental importance for the design of new interventions against malaria. Traditionally, such discovery has relied on labor-intensive approaches that require significant investments of time and resources. By combining Linkage Group Selection (LGS), quantitative whole genome population sequencing and a novel mathematical modeling approach (qSeq-LGS), we simultaneously identified multiple genes underlying two distinct phenotypes, identifying novel alleles for growth rate and strain specific immunity (SSI), while removing the need for traditionally required steps such as cloning, individual progeny phenotyping and marker generation. The detection of novel variants, verified by experimental phenotyping methods, demonstrates the remarkable potential of this approach for the identification of genes controlling selectable phenotypes in malaria and other apicomplexan parasites for which experimental genetic crosses are amenable.', u'/content/early/2016/09/30/078451', [u'Genomics'], [u'Edinburgh University;', u'Hokkaido University;', u'Nagasaki University;', u'King Abdullah University of Science and Technology;', u'National Institute of Public Health, Lao PDR;', u'Mount Kenya University, Thika, Kenya;', u'Jiangsu Institute of Parasitic Diseases;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Centre;', u'Cambridge University']]
[u'AGO4 is specifically required for heterochromatic siRNA accumulation at Pol V-dependent loci in Arabidopsis thaliana', ['Feng Wang', 'Michael J Axtell'], u'September 30, 2016.', u"In plants, 24 nucleotide long heterochromatic siRNAs (het-siRNAs) transcriptionally regulate gene expression by RNA-directed DNA methylation (RdDM). The biogenesis of most het-siRNAs depends on the plant-specific RNA polymerase IV (Pol IV), and ARGONAUTE4 (AGO4) is a major het-siRNA effector protein. Through genome-wide analysis of sRNA-seq data sets, we found that AGO4 is required for the accumulation of a small subset of het-siRNAs. The accumulation of AGO4-dependent het-siRNAs also requires several factors known to participate in the effector portion of the RdDM pathway, including RNA POLYMERASE V (POL V), DOMAINS REARRANGED METHYLTRANSFERASE 2 (DRM2) and SAWADEE HOMEODOMAIN HOMOLOG 1 (SSH1). Like many AGO proteins, AGO4 is an endonuclease that can 'slice' RNAs. We found that a slicing-defective AGO4 was unable to fully recover AGO4-dependent het-siRNA accumulation from ago4 mutant plants. Collectively, our data suggest that AGO4-dependent siRNAs are secondary siRNAs dependent on the prior activity of the RdDM pathway at certain loci.", u'/content/early/2016/09/30/078394', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Penn State University']]
[u'Estimating the timing of multiple admixture events using 3-locus Linkage Disequilibrium', ['Mason Liang', 'Rasmus Nielsen'], u'September 30, 2016.', u'Estimating admixture histories is crucial for understanding the genetic\ndiversity we see in present-day populations. Existing allele frequency or\nphylogeny-based methods are excellent for inferring the existence of admixture or its proportions, but have less power for estimating admixture times. Recently introduced approaches for estimating these times use spatial information from admixed chromosomes, such as the local ancestry or the decay of admixture linkage disequilibrium (ALD).  One popular method, implemented in the programs ALDER and ROLLOFF, uses two-locus ALD to infer the time of a single admixture event, but is only able to estimate the time of the most recent admixture event based on this summary statistic.  We derive analytical expressions for the expected ALD in a three-locus system and provide a new statistical method based on these results that is able to resolve more complicated admixture histories. Using simulations, we show how this new statistic behaves on a range of admixture histories. As an example, we also apply our method to the Colombian and Mexican samples from the 1000 Genomes project.', u'/content/early/2016/09/30/078378', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'UC Berkeley;', u'University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'Heterogeneity of single-cell mechanical responses to tumorigenic factors.', ['Aldo Leal-Egana', 'Gaelle Letort', 'Jean-Louis Martiel', 'Andreas Christ', 'Timothee Vignaud', 'Caroline Roelants', 'Odile Filhol', 'Manuel THERY'], u'September 30, 2016.', u'Tumor development progresses through a complex path of biomechanical changes leading first to cell growth and contraction followed by cell de-adhesion, scattering and invasion. Tumorigenic factors may act specifically on one of these steps or have wider spectrum of actions, leading to a variety of effects and thus sometimes to apparent contradictory outcomes. Here we used micropatterned lines of collagen type-I/fibronectin on deformable surfaces to standardize cell behavior and to measure simultaneously cell size, speed of motion and the magnitude of the associated contractile forces at the level of a single cell. We analyzed and compared normal human breast cell line MCF10A in control conditions and in response to various tumorigenic factors. In all conditions, distinct populations of cells with a wide range of biomechanical properties were identified. Despite this heterogeneity, normal and transformed motile cells followed a common trend whereby size and contractile forces were negatively correlated with cell speed. Some tumorigenic factors, such as activation of ErbB2 or the loss of the beta subunit of casein kinase 2 (CK2), shifted the whole population towards a faster speed and lower contractility state. Treatment with transforming growth factor beta (TGF-\u03b2), induced some cells to adopt opposing behaviors such as extreme high contractility versus extreme low contractility. Thus, tumor transformation amplified the pre-existing population heterogeneity and led some cells to exhibit biomechanical properties that were more extreme than that observed with normal cells.', u'/content/early/2016/09/30/078154', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'CEA;', u'INSERM;', u'Hopital Saint Louis, CEA']]
[u'Human enhancers associated with immune response harbour specific sequence composition, activity, and genome organization', ['Charles-Henri Lecellier', 'Wyeth W Wasserman', 'Remo Rohs', 'Anthony Mathelier'], u'September 30, 2016.', u'The FANTOM5 consortium recently characterized 38,554 robust human enhancers from 808 cell and tissue types using the Cap Analysis of Gene Expression technology. We used the distribution of guanine and cytosine nucleotides at enhancer regions to distinguish two classes of enhancers harboring distinct DNA structural properties. A functional analysis of their predicted gene targets highlighted one class of enhancers as significantly enriched for associations with immune response genes. Moreover, these enhancers  were specifically enriched for regulatory motifs recognized by TFs involved in immune response. We observed that immune response enhancers were cell type specific, preferentially activated upon bacterial infection, and with long-lasting response activity. Looking at chromatin capture data, we found that the two classes of enhancers were lying in distinct topologically-associated domains and chromatin loops. Our results suggest that specific DNA sequence patterns encode for classes of enhancers that are functionally distinct and specifically organized in the human genome.', u'/content/early/2016/09/30/078477', [u'Genomics'], [u'Institut de Genetique Moleculaire de Montpellier, Universite de Montpellier;', u'University of British Columbia;', u'University of Southern California;', u'Centre for Molecular Medicine Norway (NCMM), University of Oslo']]
[u'PyVar: An Extensible Framework for Variant Annotator Comparison', ['Julie Wertz', 'Thomas B Bair', 'Michael S Chimenti'], u'September 30, 2016.', u'Modern genomics projects are generating millions of variant calls that must be annotated for predicted functional consequences at the level of gene expression and protein function.  Many of these variants are of interest owing to their potential clinical significance.  Unfortunately, state-of-the-art methods do not always agree on downstream effects for any given variant.  Here we present a readily extensible python framework (PyVar) for comparing the output of variant annotator methods in order to aid the research community in quickly assessing differences between methods and benchmarking new methods as they are developed.  We also apply our framework to assess the annotation performance of ANNOVAR, VEP, and SnpEff when annotating 81 million variants from the "1000 Genomes Project" against both RefSeq and Ensembl human transcript sets.', u'/content/early/2016/09/30/078386', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Iowa']]
[u'SCFSlmb recognizes a conserved degron within the survival motor neuron (SMN) self-interaction domain to mediate ubiquitylation of SMN and SMN\u03947 isoforms', ['Kelsey M Gray', 'Kevin A Kaifer', 'David Baillat', 'Ying Wen', 'Jacqueline J Glascock', 'Allison D Ebert', 'Sara ten Have', 'Angus I Lamond', 'Eric J Wagner', 'Christian L Lorson', 'A. Gregory Matera'], u'September 30, 2016.', u'Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is caused by homozygous loss of human SMN1 (survival motor neuron 1). Expression of a duplicate gene (SMN2) primarily results in skipping of exon 7 and production of an unstable protein, called SMN\u03947. Although SMN2 exon skipping is the principal contributor to SMA severity, mechanisms governing stability of SMN protein isoforms are poorly understood. We used a Drosophila model system and label-free proteomics to identify the SCFSlmb ubiquitin E3 ligase complex as a novel SMN binding partner. We show that this interaction is conserved from fly to human, and that SCFSlmb interacts with a phospho-degron embedded within the SMN YG-box self-oligomerization domain. Substitution of a conserved serine (S270A) interferes with SCFSlmb binding and greatly stabilizes SMN\u03947. SMA-causing missense mutations that block multimerization of full-length SMN are also stabilized in the degron mutant background. Furthermore, overexpression of SMN\u03947S270A, but not wild-type SMN\u03947, provides a protective effect in SMA model mice and human motor neuron cell culture systems. Our findings support a model wherein the SCFSlmb degron is largely exposed when SMN is monomeric, whereas it is sequestered when SMN forms higher-order multimers. SMN stability is thus regulated by self-oligomerization, providing an elegant mechanism for balancing functional activity.', u'/content/early/2016/09/30/078337', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'University of North Carolina;', u'University of Missouri;', u'University of Texas Medical Branch;', u'Medical College of Wisconsin;', u'University of Dundee']]
[u'A forward model at Purkinje cell synapses facilitates cerebellar anticipatory motor control', ['Ivan Herreros', 'Xerxes D Arsiwalla', 'Paul F.M.J. Verschure'], u'September 30, 2016.', u'How does our motor system solve the problem of anticipatory control in spite of a wide spectrum of response dynamics from different musculo-skeletal systems, transport delays as well as response latencies throughout the central nervous system? To a great extent, our highly-skilled motor responses are a result of a reactive feedback system, originating in the brain-stem and spinal cord, combined with a feed-forward anticipatory system, that is adaptively fine-tuned by sensory experience and originates in the cerebellum. Based on that interaction we design the counterfactual predictive control (CFPC) architecture, an anticipatory adaptive motor control scheme, in which a feed-forward module, based on the cerebellum, steers an error feedback controller with counterfactual error signals. Those are signals that trigger reactions as actual errors would, but that do not code for any current of forthcoming errors. In order to determine the optimal learning strategy, we derive a novel learning rule for the feed-forward module that involves an eligibility trace and operates at the synaptic level. In particular, our eligibility trace provides a mechanism beyond co-incidence detection in that it convolves a history of prior synaptic inputs with error signals. In the context of cerebellar physiology, this solution implies that Purkinje cell synapses should generate eligibility traces using a forward model of the system being controlled. From an engineering perspective, CFPC provides a general-purpose anticipatory control architecture equipped with a learning rule that exploits the full dynamics of the closed-loop system.', u'/content/early/2016/09/30/078410', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Universitat Pompeu Fabra;', u'Universitat Pompeu Fabra and ICREA']]
