[u'Experience-dependent increases in sharp-wave ripples near visual targets', ['Timothy K Leonard', 'Kari L Hoffman'], u'May 18, 2016.', u'We measured hippocampal sharp-wave ripples during goal-directed visual exploration in macaques. Exploratory sharp-wave ripples were more frequent on familiar trials, in the second half of search, and near the visual target (i.e., the goal location). These spatial and temporal properties may help SWRs coordinate hippocampal and extra-hippocampal firing sequences that guide actions based on past experiences.', u'/content/early/2016/05/18/054171', [], [u'York University']]
[u'A brush fire feedback loop for the ramp-like rise in hominin brain size that began 2.4 million years ago', ['William H. Calvin'], u'May 18, 2016.', u"During the first million years of the Pleistocene climate changes, our ancestors' brain size doubled.  Enlargement continued at the same rate, suggesting a self-sustaining process with a rate-limiting component.  For large grazing animals and their predator Homo erectus, I analyzed the brush-fire cycle behind grasslands' brushy frontier, seeking a feedback loop.  The burn scar's new grass is an empty niche for grass-specialized herbivores, which evolved from mixed feeders only in the early Pleistocene.  The frontier subpopulation of grazers discovering the auxiliary grassland quickly multiplies.  Following this boom, a bust occurs several decades later when the brush returns; it squeezes this offshoot population back into the core grasslands population.  For both prey and predators, such a feedback loop can shift the core's gene frequencies toward those of the brush explorers.  \nHunters of both browsers and grazers spend more time in the brush than those specializing in grazers; this versatility becomes a candidate for differential amplification.  Any brush-relevant allele could benefit from amplifying feedback by such trait hitchhiking, so long as its phenotypes also concentrate near where empty niches can open up in the brush for grazers and their predators.  Increased versatility likely correlates with larger brain size on the evolutionary time scale.  Among the tasks likely to need the shade of brush are toolmaking and food preparation.  The more versatile, larger-than-average brains need only spend more-than-average time in the catchment zone for this recursive evolutionary process to keep average brain size increasing even further, making advance room for some future functionality in the cerebral cortex.", u'/content/early/2016/05/18/053827', [], [u'University of Washington']]
[u'Goggatomy: a Method for Opening Small Cuticular Compartments in Arthropods for Physiological Experiments', ['Alan R Kay', 'Davide Raccuglia', 'Jon Scholte', 'Elena Loukianova', 'Christopher A Barwacz', 'Steven A Armstrong', 'C Allan Guymon', 'Michael N Nitabach', 'Daniel F Eberl'], u'May 18, 2016.', u'Most sense organs of arthropods are ensconced in small exoskeletal compartments that hinder direct access to plasma membranes. We have developed a method for exposing live sensory and supporting cells in such structures. The technique uses a viscous light cured resin to embed and support the structure, which is then sliced with a sharp blade.  We term the procedure a goggatomy, from the Khoisan word for a bug, gogga. To demonstrate the utility of the method we show that it can be used to expose the auditory chordotonal organs in the second antennal segment and the olfactory receptor neurons in the third antennal segment of Drosophila melanogaster, preserving the transduction machinery. The procedure can also be used on other small arthropods, like mites, Daphnia, mosquitoes, wasps and ants to expose a variety of cells.', u'/content/early/2016/05/18/053298', [], [u'University of Iowa;', u'Yale Univ;', u'Univ. of Iowa;', u'Yale Univ.']]
[u'Spatiotemporal structure of intracranial electric fields induced by transcranial electric stimulation in human and nonhuman primates', ['Alexander Opitz', 'Arnaud Falchier', 'Chao-Gan Yan', 'Erin Yeagle', 'Gary Linn', 'Pierre Megevand', 'Axel Thielscher', 'Michael Milham', 'Ashesh Mehta', 'Charles Schroeder'], u'May 18, 2016.', u'Transcranial electric stimulation (TES) is an emerging technique, developed to non-invasively modulate brain function. However, the spatiotemporal distribution of the intracranial electric fields induced by TES remains poorly understood. In particular, it is unclear how much current actually reaches the brain, and how it distributes across the brain. Lack of this basic information precludes a firm mechanistic understanding of TES effects. In this study we directly measure the spatial and temporal characteristics of the electric field generated by TES using stereotactic EEG (s-EEG) electrode arrays implanted in cebus monkeys and surgical epilepsy patients. We found a small frequency dependent decrease (10%) in magnitudes of TES induced potentials and negligible phase shifts over space. Electric field strengths were strongest in superficial brain regions with maximum values of about 0.5 mV/mm. Our results provide crucial information for the interpretation of human TES studies and the optimization and design of TES stimulation protocols. In addition, our findings have broad implications concerning electric field propagation in non-invasive recording techniques such as EEG/MEG.', u'/content/early/2016/05/18/053892', [], [u'Nathan Kline Institute;', u'Department of Neurosurgery, Hofstra North Shore LIJ School of Medicine;', u'Danish Research Center for Magnetic Resonance']]
[u'Landscape connectivity of a noxious invasive weed: human-aided or natural dispersal?', ['Diego F Alvarado-Serrano', 'Megan Van Etten', 'Shu-Mei Chang', 'Regina Baucom'], u'May 18, 2016.', u'Examining how the landscape may influence gene flow is at the forefront of understanding population differentiation and adaptation. Such understanding is crucial in light of ongoing environmental changes and the elevated risk of ecosystems alteration. In particular, knowledge of how humans may influence the structure of populations is imperative to elucidate their role in shaping the evolution of other species, and specifically how humans may alter the balance between genetic drift and selection. Here we characterize the population genetic structure of Ipomoea purpurea, a noxious invasive weed, and assess the relative roles of natural and human-driven landscapes on genetic differentiation. By combining rigorous statistical analyses and a combination of different molecular markers, we detect both common and marker-specific patterns of genetic connectivity and identify human-aided migration as an important component shaping the evolutionary history of this species. In particular, we identified human population density as an important predictor of pairwise population differentiation, suggesting that the agricultural and/or horticultural trade may be involved in maintaining some level of connectivity across agricultural fields. Climatic variation, primarily temperature, appears as an additional predictor when considering agricultural fields in the northern United States. We discuss the implications of these results and the approach we followed in the context of understanding agricultural weed and invasive species\u2032 expansions, as well as the challenges and promises of current landscape genetics research.', u'/content/early/2016/05/18/054122', [], [u'University of Michigan;', u'University of Georgia']]
[u'Transformation of Independent Oscillatory Inputs into Temporally Precise Rate Codes', ['David Tingley', 'Andrew Alexander', 'Laleh Quinn', 'Andrea Chiba', 'Douglas Nitz'], u'May 18, 2016.', u"Complex behaviors demand temporal coordination among functionally distinct brain regions. The basal forebrain's afferent and efferent structure suggests a capacity for mediating such coordination. During performance of a selective attention task, synaptic activity in this region was dominated by four amplitude-oscillations temporally organized by the phase of the slowest, a theta rhythm. Further, oscillatory amplitudes were precisely organized by task epoch and a robust input/output transform, from synchronous synaptic activity to spiking rates of basal forebrain neurons, was identified. For many neurons, spiking was temporally organized as phase precessing sequences against theta band field potential oscillations. Remarkably, theta phase precession advanced in parallel to task progression, rather than absolute spatial location or time. Together, the findings reveal a process by which associative brain regions can integrate independent oscillatory inputs and transform them into sequence-specific, rate-coded outputs that are adaptive to the pace with which organisms interact with their environment.", u'/content/early/2016/05/18/054163', [], [u'New York University;', u'University of California, San Diego']]
[u'Single molecule long read sequencing resolves the detailed structure of complex satellite DNA loci in Drosophila melanogaster', ['Daniel Emerson Khost', 'Danna Eickbush', 'Amanda M Larracuente'], u'May 18, 2016.', u'Highly-repetitive satellite DNA (satDNA) repeats are found in most eukaryotic genomes. SatDNAs are rapidly evolving and have roles in genome stability and chromosome segregation. The repetitive nature of satDNA poses a challenge for genome assembly and makes progress on the detailed study of satDNA structure difficult. Here we experiment with assembly methods using single-molecule sequencing reads from Pacific Biosciences (PacBio) to determine the detailed structure of two complex satDNA loci in Drosophila melanogaster: the 260-bp and Responder satellites. We optimized assembly methods and parameter combinations to produce a high quality assembly of these previously unassembled satDNA loci and validate this assembly using molecular and computational methods. We find that satDNA repeats are organized into large arrays interrupted by transposable elements. The repeats in the center of the array tend to be homogenized in sequence, though to a different degree for Responder and 260-bp loci. This suggests that gene conversion and unequal crossovers lead to repeat homogenization through concerted evolution, but the degree of concerted evolution may differ among complex satellite loci. We find evidence for higher order structure within satDNA arrays that suggest recent structural rearrangements.', u'/content/early/2016/05/18/054155', [], [u'University of Rochester']]
[u'A variant by any name: quantifying annotation discordance across tools and clinical databases', ['Jennifer Yen', 'Sarah Garcia', 'Aldrin Montana', 'Jason Harris', 'Steven Chervitz', 'John West', 'Richard Chen', 'Deanna M Church'], u'May 18, 2016.', u'Background\nClinical genomic testing is dependent on the robust identification and reporting of variant-level information in relation to disease. With the shift to high-throughput sequencing, a major challenge for clinical diagnostics is the cross-identification of variants called on their genomic position to resources that rely on transcript- or protein-based descriptions. \n\nMethods\nWe evaluated the accuracy of three tools (SnpEff, Variant Effect Predictor and Variation Reporter) that generate transcript and protein-based variant nomenclature from genomic coordinates according to guidelines by the Human Genome Variation Society (HGVS). Our evaluation was based on comparisons to a manually-curated list of 127 test variants of various types drawn from data sources, each with HGVS-compliant transcript and protein descriptors. We further evaluated the concordance between annotations generated by Snpeff and Variant Effect Predictor with those in major germline and cancer databases: ClinVar and COSMIC, respectively.\n\nResults\nWe find that there is substantial discordance between the annotation tools and databases in the description of insertion and/or deletions.  Accuracy based on our ground truth set was between 80-90% for coding and 50-70% for protein variants, numbers that are not adequate for clinical reporting. Exact concordance for SNV syntax was over 99.5% between ClinVar and Variant Effect Predictor (VEP) and SnpEff, but less than 90% for non-SNV variants. For COSMIC, exact concordance for coding and protein SNVs were between 65 and 88%, and less than 15% for insertions. Across the tools and datasets, there was a wide range of equivalent expressions describing protein variants.\n\nConclusion\nOur results reveal significant inconsistency in variant representation across tools and databases. These results highlight the urgent need for the adoption and adherence to uniform standards in variant annotation, with consistent reporting on the genomic reference, to enable accurate and efficient data-driven clinical care.', u'/content/early/2016/05/18/054023', [], [u'Personalis Inc']]
[u'Illuminating Uveitis: Metagenomic Deep Sequencing Identifies Common and Rare Pathogens', ['Thuy Doan', 'Michael R Wilson', 'Emily D Crawford', 'Eric D Chow', 'Lillian M Khan', 'Kristeene A Knopp', 'Dongxiang Xia', 'Jill K Hacker', 'Jay M Stewart', 'John A Gonzales', 'Nisha R Acharya', 'Joseph L DeRisi'], u'May 18, 2016.', u"Background\nOcular infections remain a major cause of blindness and morbidity worldwide. While prognosis is dependent on the timing and accuracy of diagnosis, the etiology remains elusive in approximately 50% of presumed infectious uveitis cases.1, 2 We aimed to determine if unbiased metagenomic deep sequencing (MDS) can accurately detect pathogens in intraocular fluid samples of patients with uveitis. \n\nMethods\nThis is a proof-of-concept study, in which intraocular fluid samples were obtained from 5 subjects with known diagnoses, and one subject with bilateral chronic uveitis without a known etiology.  Samples were subjected to MDS, and results were compared with conventional diagnostic tests. Pathogens were identified using a rapid computational pipeline to analyze the non-host sequences obtained from MDS.  \n\nFindings\nUnbiased MDS of intraocular fluid produced results concordant with known diagnoses in subjects with (n=4) and without (n=1) uveitis. Rubella virus (RV) was identified in one case of chronic bilateral idiopathic uveitis. The subject's strain was most closely related to a German RV strain isolated in 1992, one year before he developed a fever and rash while living in Germany.\n\nInterpretation\nMDS can identify fungi, parasites, and DNA and RNA viruses in minute volumes of intraocular fluid samples. The identification of chronic intraocular RV infection highlights the eye's role as a long-term pathogen reservoir, which has implications for virus eradication and emerging global epidemics.", u'/content/early/2016/05/18/054148', [u'Scientific Communication'], [u'Proctor Foundation, University of California, San Francisco;', u'University of California, San Francisco;', u'California Department of Public Health']]
[u'Evidence for reassortment of highly divergent novel rotaviruses from bats in Cameroon, without evidence for human interspecies transmissions', ['Claude K Yinda', 'Mark Zeller', 'Nadia&aacute Conceicao-Neto', 'Piet Maes', 'Ward Deboutte', 'Leen Beller', 'Elisabeth Heylen', 'Stephen M Ghogomu', 'Marc Van Ranst', 'Jelle Matthijnssens'], u'May 18, 2016.', u"Bats are an important reservoir for pathogenic human respiratory and hemorrhagic viruses but only little is known about bat viruses causing gastroenteritis in humans, including rotavirus A strains (RVA). Only three RVA strains have been reported in bats in Kenya (straw-colored fruit bat) and in China (lesser horseshoe and a stoliczka's trident bat), being highly divergent from each other. To further elucidate the potential of bat RVAs to cause gastroenteritis in humans we started by investigating the genetic diversity of RVAs in fecal samples from 87 straw-colored fruit bats living in close contact with humans in Cameroon using metagenomics. Five samples contained significant numbers of RVA Illumina reads, sufficient to obtain their (near) complete genomes. A single RVA strain showed a close phylogenetic relationship with the Kenyan bat RVA strain in six gene segments, including VP7 (G25), whereas the other gene segments represented novel genotypes as ratified by the RCWG. The 4 other RVA strains were highly divergent from known strains (but very similar among each other) possessing all novel genotypes. Only the VP7 and VP4 genes showed a  significant variability representing multiple novel G and P genotypes, indicating the frequent occurrence of reassortment events.\nComparing these bat RVA strains with currently used human RVA screening primers indicated that several of the novel VP7 and VP4 segments would not be detected in routine epidemiological screening studies. Therefore, novel VP6 based screening primers matching both human and bat RVAs were developed and used to screen samples from 25 infants with gastroenteritis living in close proximity with the studied bat population. Although RVA infections were identified in 36% of the infants, Sanger sequencing did not indicate evidence of interspecies transmissions.\nThis study identified multiple novel bat RVA strains, but further epidemiological studies in humans will have to assess if these viruses have the potential to cause gastroenteritis in humans.", u'/content/early/2016/05/18/054072', [u'Microbiology'], [u'KU Leuven - University of Leuven, Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Laboratory of Viral Me;', u'KU Leuven - University of Leuven, Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Laboratory for Clinica;', u'University of Buea, Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Molecular and cell biology la']]
[u'Genome reduction in an abundant and ubiquitous soil bacterial lineage', ['Tess Brewer', 'Kim Handley', 'Paul Carini', 'Jack Gibert', 'Noah Fierer'], u'May 18, 2016.', u"Although bacteria within the Verrucomicrobia phylum are pervasive in soils around the world, they are underrepresented in both isolate collections and genomic databases. Here we describe a single verrucomicrobial phylotype within the class Spartobacteria that is not closely related to any previously described taxa. We examined >1000 soils and found this spartobacterial phylotype to be ubiquitous and consistently one of the most abundant soil bacterial phylotypes, particularly in grasslands, where it was typically the most abundant phylotype. We reconstructed a nearly complete genome of this phylotype from a soil metagenome for which we propose the provisional name 'Candidatus Udaeobacter copiosus'. The Ca. U. copiosus genome is unusually small for soil bacteria, estimated to be only 2.81 Mbp compared to the predicted effective mean genome size of 4.74 Mbp for soil bacteria. Metabolic reconstruction suggests that Ca. U. copiosus is an aerobic chemoorganoheterotroph with numerous amino acid and vitamin auxotrophies. The large population size, relatively small genome and multiple putative auxotrophies characteristic of Ca. U. copiosus suggests that it may be undergoing streamlining selection to minimize cellular architecture, a phenomenon previously thought to be restricted to aquatic bacteria. Although many soil bacteria need relatively large, complex genomes to be successful in soil, Ca. U. copiosus appears to have identified an alternate strategy, sacrificing metabolic versatility for efficiency to become dominant in the soil environment.", u'/content/early/2016/05/18/053942', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Colorado Boulder;', u'The University of Auckland;', u'The University of Chicago']]
[u'PackIO and EphysViewer: software tools for acquisition and analysis of neuroscience data', ['Brendon O Watson', 'Rafael Yuste', 'Adam M Packer'], u'May 18, 2016.', u'We present an open-source synchronization software package, PackIO, that can record and generate voltage signals to enable complex experimental paradigms across multiple devices. This general purpose package is built on National Instruments data acquisition and generation hardware and has temporal precision up to the limit of the hardware. PackIO acts as a flexibly programmable master clock that can record experimental data (e.g. voltage traces), timing data (e.g. event times such as imaging frame times) while generating stimuli (e.g. voltage waveforms, voltage triggers to drive other devices, etc.). PackIO is particularly useful to record from and synchronize multiple devices, for example when simultaneously acquiring electrophysiology while generating and recording imaging timing data. Experimental control is easily enabled by an intuitive graphical user interface. We also release an open-source data visualisation and analysis tool, EphysViewer, written in MATLAB, as well as a module to import data into Python. These flexible and programmable tools allow experimenters to configure and set up customised input and output protocols in a synchronized fashion for controlling, recording, and analysing experiments.', u'/content/early/2016/05/18/054080', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Weill-Cornell Medical College;', u'Columbia University;', u'UCL']]
[u'A comprehensive and scalable database search system for metaproteomics', ['Sandip Chatterjee', 'Gregory Stupp', 'Sung Kyu (Robin) Park', 'Jean-Christophe Ducom', 'John R Yates', 'Andrew I Su', 'Dennis W. Wolan'], u'May 18, 2016.', u'Background\nMass spectrometry-based shotgun proteomics experiments rely on accurate matching of experimental spectra against a database of protein sequences. Existing computational analysis methods are limited in the size of their sequence databases, which severely restricts the proteomic sequencing depth and functional analysis of highly complex samples. The growing amount of public high-throughput sequencing\ndata will only exacerbate this problem. We designed a broadly applicable metaproteomic analysis method (ComPIL) that addresses protein database size limitations.\n\nResults\nOur approach to overcome this significant limitation in metaproteomics was to design a scalable set of sequence databases assembled for optimal library querying speeds. ComPIL was integrated with a modified version of the search engine ProLuCID (termed "Blazmass") to permit rapid matching of experimental spectra. Proof-of-principle analysis of human HEK293 lysate with a ComPIL database derived from high-quality genomic libraries was able to detect nearly all of the same peptides as a search with a human database (~500x fewer peptides in the database), with a small reduction in sensitivity. We were also able to detect proteins from the adenovirus used to immortalize these cells. We applied our method to a set of healthy human gut microbiome proteomic samples and showed a substantial increase in the number of identified peptides and proteins  compared to previous metaproteomic analyses, while retaining a high degree of protein identification accuracy, and allowing for a more in-depth characterization of the functional landscape of the samples.\nConclusions\nThe combination of ComPIL with Blazmass allows proteomic searches to be performed with database sizes much larger than previously possible. These large database searches can be applied to complex meta-samples with unknown composition or proteomic samples where unexpected proteins may be identified. The protein database, proteomics search engine, and the proteomic data files for the 5 microbiome samples characterized and discussed herein are open source and available for use and additional analysis.', u'/content/early/2016/05/18/053975', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'The Scripps Research Institute;', u'Scripps Research Institute']]
[u'Glu-370 in the Large Subunit Influences the Substrate Binding, Allosteric, and Heat Stability Properties of Potato ADP-glucose Pyrophosphorylase', ['Ayse B Seferoglu', 'Seref Gul', 'Ugur M Dikbas', 'Kaan Koper', 'Ibrahim Baris', 'Mahmut Caliskan', 'Gul Cevahir', 'Ibrahim Kavakli'], u'May 18, 2016.', u'ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (AGPase) is a key allosteric enzyme in plant starch biosynthesis. Plant AGPase is a heterotetrameric enzyme that consists of large (LS) and small subunits (SS), which are encoded by two different genes. In this study, we showed that the conversion of Glu to Gly at position 370 in the LS of AGPase alters the heterotetrameric stability along with the binding properties of substrate and effectors of the enzyme. Kinetic analyses revealed that the affinity of the LSE370GSSWT AGPase for glucose-1-phosphate is 3-fold less than for wild type (WT) AGPase. Additionally, the LSE370GSSWT AGPase requires 3-fold more 3-phosphogyceric acid to be activated. Finally, the LSE370GSSWTAGPase is less heat stable compared with the WT AGPase. Computational analysis of the mutant Gly-370 in the 3D modeled LS AGPase showed that this residue changes charge distribution of the surface and thus affect stability of the LS AGPase and overall heat stability of the heterotetrameric AGPase. In summary, our results show that LSE370 intricately modulate the heat stability and enzymatic activity of the AGPase.', u'/content/early/2016/05/18/054106', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'Koc University;', u'Istanbul University']]
[u'Genomic Prediction of Hybrid Combinations in the Early Stages of a Maize Hybrid Breeding Pipeline', ['Dnyaneshwar Kadam', 'Sarah Potts', 'Martin O Bohn', 'Alexander E. Lipka', 'Aaron Lorenz'], u'May 18, 2016.', u"Prediction of single-cross hybrid performance has been a major goal of plant breeders since the beginning of hybrid breeding. Genomic prediction has shown to be a promising approach, but only limited studies have examined the accuracy of predicting single cross performance. Most of the studies rather focused on predicting top cross performance using single tester to determine the inbred parent's worth in hybrid combinations. Moreover, no studies have examined the potential of predicting single crosses made among random progenies derived from a series of biparental families, which resembles the structure of germplasm comprising the initial stages of a hybrid maize breeding pipeline. The main objective of this study was to evaluate the potential of genomic prediction for identifying superior single crosses early in the breeding pipeline and optimize its application. To accomplish these objectives, we designed and analyzed a novel population of single-cross hybrids representing the Iowa Stiff Stalk Synthetic/Non-Stiff Stalk heterotic pattern commonly used in the development of North American commercial maize hybrids. The single cross prediction accuracies estimated using cross-validation ranged from 0.40 to 0.74 for grain yield, 0.68 to 0.91 for plant height and 0.54 to 0.94 for staygreen depending on the number of tested parents of the single crosses. The genomic estimated general and specific combining abilities showed a clear advantage over the use of genomic covariances among single crosses, especially when one or both parents of the single cross were untested in hybrid combinations. Overall, our results suggest that genomic prediction of the performance of single crosses made using random progenies from the early stages of the breeding pipeline holds great potential to re-design hybrid breeding and increase its efficiency.", u'/content/early/2016/05/18/054015', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Nebraska, United States;', u'University of Illinois, United States;', u'University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, United States;', u'University of Minnesota, United States']]
[u'Initiation of mtDNA transcription is followed by pausing, and diverge across human cell types and during evolution', ['Amit Blumberg', 'Edward J. Rice', 'Anshul Kundaje', 'Charles G. Danko', 'Dan Mishmar'], u'May 18, 2016.', u'Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) genes are long known to be co-transcribed in polycistrones, yet it remains impossible to study nascent mtDNA transcripts quantitatively in vivo using existing tools. To this end we used deep sequencing (GRO-seq and PRO-seq) and analyzed nascent mtDNA-encoded RNA transcripts in diverse human cell lines and metazoan organisms. Surprisingly, accurate detection of human mtDNA transcription initiation sites (TIS) in the heavy and light strands revealed a novel conserved transcription pausing site near the light strand TIS, upstream to the transcription-replication transition region. This pausing site correlated with the presence of a bacterial pausing sequence motif, yet the transcription pausing index varied quantitatively among the cell lines. Analysis of non-human organisms enabled de novo mtDNA sequence assembly, as well as detection of previously unknown mtDNA TIS, pausing, and transcription termination sites with unprecedented accuracy. Whereas mammals (chimpanzee, rhesus macaque, rat, and mouse) showed a human-like mtDNA transcription pattern, the invertebrate pattern (Drosophila and C. elegans) profoundly diverged. Our approach paves the path towards in vivo, quantitative, reference sequence-free analysis of mtDNA transcription in all eukaryotes.', u'/content/early/2016/05/18/054031', [u'Genomics'], [u'Ben-Gurion University of the Negev;', u'Baker Institute for Animal Health, Cornell University;', u'Stanford University']]
[u'Retrieving the topology of chromatin domains from deep sequencing data with correlation functions', ['Jana Molitor', 'Jan-Philipp Mallm', 'Karsten Rippe', 'Fabian Erdel'], u'May 18, 2016.', u'Epigenetic modifications and other chromatin features partition the genome on multiple length scales to control its biological function. Some of them like DNA methylation target single bases, whereas others such as heterochromatic histone modifications span regions of several megabases. It has now become a routine task to map chromatin marks by deep sequencing. However, the quantitative assessment and comparison of the topology of chromatin domains and their spatial relationships across data sets without a priori assumptions remains challenging, especially if broad domains are involved. Here, we introduce multi-scale correlation evaluation (MCORE), which uses the fluctuation spectrum of mapped sequencing reads to quantify and compare spatial patterns on multiple length scales in a model-independent manner. We used MCORE to dissect the chromatin domain topology of embryonic stem cells and neural cells by integrating sequencing data from chromatin immunoprecipitation, RNA expression, DNA methylation and chromosome interaction experiments. Further, we constructed network models that reflect the relationships among these features on different genomic scales. We anticipate that MCORE will complement current sequencing evaluation schemes and aid in the design and validation of mechanistic models for chromatin signaling.', u'/content/early/2016/05/18/054049', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ);', u'Deutsches Krebsforschungszentrum;', u'Columbia University']]
[u'Time-dependent fitness effects can drive bet-hedging populations extinct', ['Eric Libby', 'William C Ratcliff'], u'May 18, 2016.', u'To survive unpredictable environmental change, many organisms adopt bet-hedging strategies that trade short-term population growth for long-term fitness benefits. Because the benefits of bet-hedging may manifest over long time intervals, bet-hedging strategies may be out-competed by strategies maximizing short-term fitness. Here, we investigate the interplay between two drivers of selection, environmental fluctuations and competition for limited resources, on different bet-hedging strategies. We consider an environment with frequent disasters that switch between which phenotypes they affect in a temporally-correlated fashion. We determine how organisms that stochastically switch between phenotypes at different rates fare in both competition and survival. When disasters are correlated in time, the best strategy for competition is among the worst for survival. Since the time scales over which the two agents of selection act are significantly different, environmental fluctuations and resource competition act in opposition and lead populations to evolve diversification strategies that ultimately drive them extinct.', u'/content/early/2016/05/18/054007', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Santa Fe Institute;', u'Georgia Tech']]
[u'Large scale chromosome folding is stable against local changes in chromatin structure', ['Ana Maria Florescu', 'Pierre Therizols', 'Angelo Rosa'], u'May 18, 2016.', u'Characterizing the link between small-scale chromatin structure and large-scale\nchromosome folding during interphase is a prerequisite for understanding transcription.\nYet, this link remains poorly investigated. Here, we introduce a simple biophysical\nmodel where interphase chromosomes are described in terms of the folding of chromatin\nsequences composed of alternating blocks of fibers with different thicknesses and\nflexibilities, and we use it to study the influence of sequence disorder on chromosome\nbehaviors in space and time. By employing extensive computer simulations,we thus\ndemonstrate that chromosomes undergo noticeable conformational changes only on\nlength-scales smaller than 105 basepairs and time-scales shorter than a few seconds, and\nwe suggest there might exist effective upper bounds to the detection of chromosome\nreorganization in eukaryotes. We prove the relevance of our framework by modeling\nrecent experimental FISH data on murine chromosomes.', u'/content/early/2016/05/18/054056', [u'Biophysics'], [u'SISSA;', u'INSERM UMR 944']]
[u'Establishment and stability of the latent HIV-1 DNA reservoir', ['Johanna Brodin', 'Fabio Zanini', 'Lina Thebo', 'Christa Lanz', 'Goran Bratt', 'Richard Neher', 'Jan Albert'], u'May 18, 2016.', u'HIV-1 infection currently cannot be cured because the virus persists as integrated proviral DNA in long-lived cells despite years of suppressive antiretroviral therapy (ART). To characterize establishment, turnover, and evolution of viral DNA reservoirs we deep-sequenced the p17gag region of the HIV-1 genome from samples obtained after 3-18 years of suppressive ART from 10 patients. For each of these patients, whole genome deep-sequencing data of HIV-1 RNA populations before onset of ART were available from 6-12 longitudinal plasma samples spanning 5-8 years of untreated infection. This enabled a detailed analysis of the dynamics and origin of proviral DNA during ART. A median of 14% (range 0-42%) of the p17gag DNA sequences were overtly defective due to G-to-A hypermutation. The remaining sequences were remarkably similar to previously observed RNA sequences and showed no evidence of evolution over many years of suppressive ART. Most sequences from the DNA reservoirs were very similar to viruses actively replicating in plasma (RNA sequences) shortly before start of ART. The results do not support persistent HIV-1 replication as a mechanism to maintain the HIV-1 reservoir during suppressive therapy. Rather, the data indicate that viral DNA variants are turning over as long as patients are untreated and that suppressive ART halts this turnover.', u'/content/early/2016/05/18/053983', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Karolinska Institute;', u'Stanford University;', u'Max Planck Institute for Developmental Biology;', u'Stockholm South General Hospital']]
