[u'Constitutive Immune Activity Promotes Tumorigenesis in Drosophila Intestinal Progenitor Cells.', ['Kristina Petkau', 'Silvia Guntermann', 'Edan Foley'], u'November 3, 2016.', u'The endoderm is a critical first point of contact between a host and their immediate environment. Gut innate immune defenses contain bacterial populations and protect the host interior from invasive microbes. Although excess intestinal immune activity frequently promotes inflammatory illnesses, we know very little about the consequences of chronic innate immune activity exclusively in endodermal gut cells of an otherwise normal animal. To address this question, we generated a transgenic line that allows us to activate inflammatory signals in fly intestinal progenitor cells. We found that constitutive immune activity in intestinal progenitors disrupts expression of homeostatic regulators such as Notch signal transduction pathway components and induces hyperplasia throughout the gut. Consistent with links between immune activity and the Notch pathway, we showed that persistent immune signaling interferes with progenitor cell differentiation and exacerbates the formation of Notch-dependent intestinal tumors. These findings uncover a novel link between constitutive immune activity and tumorigenesis in intestinal stem cells.', u'/content/early/2016/11/03/085597', [], [u'University of Alberta']]
[u'Rfx2 stabilizes Foxj1 binding at chromatin loops to enable multiciliated cell gene expression', ['Ian K Quigley', 'Chris Kintner'], u'November 3, 2016.', u'Cooperative transcription factor binding at cis-regulatory sites in the genome drives robust eukaryotic gene expression, and many such sites must be coordinated to produce coherent transcriptional programs. The transcriptional program leading to motile cilia formation requires members of the DNA-binding forkhead (Fox) and Rfx transcription factor families and these factors co-localize to cilia gene promoters, but it is not clear how many cilia genes are regulated by these two factors, whether these factors act directly or indirectly, or how these factors act with specificity in the context of a 3-dimensional genome. Here, we use genome-wide approaches to show that cilia genes reside at the boundaries of topological domains and that these areas have low enhancer density. We show that the transcription factors Foxj1 and Rfx2 binding occurs in the promoters of more cilia genes than other known cilia transcription factors and that while Rfx2 binds directly to promoters and enhancers equally, Foxj1 prefers direct binding to enhancers and is stabilized at promoters by Rfx2. Finally, we show that Rfx2 and Foxj1 lie at the anchor endpoints of chromatin loops, suggesting that target genes are activated when Foxj1 bound at distal sites is recruited via a loop created by Rfx2 binding at both sites.  We speculate that the primary function of Rfx2 is to stabilize distal enhancers with proximal promoters by operating as a scaffolding factor, bringing key regulatory domains bound by Foxj1 into close physical proximity and enabling coordinated cilia gene expression.', u'/content/early/2016/11/03/085571', [], [u'Salk Institute for Biological Studies']]
[u'Assessment of Antibody Library Diversity through Next Generation Sequencing and Technical Error Compensation.', ['Marco Fantini', 'Luca Pandolfini', 'Simonetta Lisi', 'Michele Chirichella', 'Ivan Arisi', 'Marco Terrigno', 'Martina Goracci', 'Federico Cremisi', 'Antonino Cattaneo'], u'November 3, 2016.', u'Antibody libraries are important resources to derive antibodies to be used for a wide range of applications,  from structural and functional  studies to  intracellular protein interference studies to developing new diagnostics and therapeutics. Whatever the goal, the key parameter for an antibody library is its diversity, i.e.  the number of distinct elements in the collection, which directly reflects the probability of finding in the library an antibody against a given antigen, of sufficiently high affinity. Quantitative evaluation of antibody library diversity and quality has been for a long time inadequately addressed, due to the high similarity and length of the sequences of the library. Diversity was usually inferred by the transformation efficiency and tested either by fingerprinting and/or sequencing of a few hundred random library elements. Inferring diversity from such a small sample is, however, very rudimental and gives limited information about the real complexity, because complexity does not scale linearly with sample size. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) has opened new ways to tackle the antibody library diversity quality assessment. However, much remains to be done to fully exploit the potential of NGS for the quantitative analysis of antibody repertoires and to overcome current limitations. To obtain a more reliable antibody library complexity estimate here we show a new, PCR-free, NGS approach to sequence antibody libraries on Illumina platform, coupled to a new bioinformatic analysis and software (Diversity Estimator of Antibody Library, DEAL) that allows to reliably estimate the diversity, taking in consideration the sequencing error.', u'/content/early/2016/11/03/085498', [], [u'Bio@SNS Laboratory, Scuola Normale Superiore, Pisa, Italy;', u'European Brain Research Institute, Roma, Italy']]
[u'Sequence features explain most of the mRNA stability variation across genes', ['Jun Cheng', 'Ziga Avsec', 'Julien Gagneur'], u'November 3, 2016.', u'The stability of messenger RNA (mRNA) is one of the major determinants of gene expression. Although a wealth of sequence elements and mechanisms regulating mRNA stability has been described, their quantitative contributions in determining mRNA half-life is unknown. Here, we built quantitative models for two eukaryotic genomes Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Schizosaccharomyces pombe that, for the first time, explain most of the half-life variation between genes based on mRNA sequence alone. The models integrate known functional cis-regulatory elements, identify novel ones, and quantify their contributions at single-nucleotide resolution. We show quantitatively that codon usage is the major determinant of mRNA stability, and that this effect depends on canonical mRNA degradation pathways. Altogether, our results integrate and quantitatively delineate mRNA stability cis-regulatory elements and provide a methodology that can serve as a scaffold to study the function of cis-regulatory elements and to discover novel ones.', u'/content/early/2016/11/03/085522', [], [u'Technical University of Munich']]
[u'Using the Volta phase plate with defocus for cryo-EM single particle analysis', ['Radostin Danev', 'Dimitry Tegunov', 'Wolfgang Baumeister'], u'November 3, 2016.', u'Previously, we reported an in-focus data acquisition method for cryo-EM single particle analysis with the Volta phase plate (VPP) (Danev and Baumeister, 2016). Here, we extend the technique to include a small amount of defocus which enables contrast transfer function measurement and correction. This hybrid approach simplifies the experiment and increases the data acquisition speed. It also enables 3D reconstructions with resolutions in the 2 A range, demonstrating that, in practice, there are no resolution limitations imposed by the VPP.', u'/content/early/2016/11/03/085530', [], [u'Max Planck Institute of Biochemistry;', u'Max Planck Institute for Biophysical Chemistry']]
[u'Dynamical modelling of the heat shock response in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii', ['Stefano Magni', 'Antonella Succurro', 'Alexander Skupin', 'Oliver Ebenhoeh'], u'November 3, 2016.', u'Global warming is exposing plants to more frequent heat stress, with consequent crop yield reduction. Organisms exposed to large temperature increases protect themselves typically with a heat shock response (HSR). To study the HSR in photosynthetic organisms we present here a data driven mathematical model describing the dynamics of the HSR in the model organism Chlamydomonas reinhartii. Temperature variations are sensed by the accumulation of unfolded proteins, which activates the synthesis of heat shock proteins (HSP) mediated by the heat shock transcription factor HSF1. Our dynamical model employs a system of ordinary differential equations mostly based on mass-action kinetics to study the time evolution of the involved species. The signalling network is inferred from data in the literature, and the multiple experimental data-sets available are used to calibrate the model, which allows to reproduce their qualitative behaviour. With this model we show the ability of the system to adapt to temperatures higher than usual during heat shocks longer than three hours by shifting to a new steady state. We study how the steady state concentrations depend on the temperature at which the steady state is reached. We systematically investigate how the accumulation of HSPs depends on the combination of temperature and duration of the heat shock. We finally investigate the system response to a smooth variation in temperature simulating a hot day.', u'/content/early/2016/11/03/085555', [], [u'Luxembourg Centre for System Biomedicine, University of Luxembourg;', u'Cologne Biocenter, University of Cologne;', u'Heinrich Heine University Duesseldorf']]
[u'Bridging multiple scales in the human brain using computational modelling', ['Michael Schirner', 'Anthony Randal McIntosh', 'Viktor Jirsa', 'Gustavo Deco', 'Petra Ritter'], u'November 3, 2016.', u'Brain dynamics span multiple spatial and temporal scales, from fast spiking neurons to slow fluctuations over distributed areas. No single experimental method links data across scales. Here, we bridge this gap using The Virtual Brain connectome-based modelling platform to integrate multimodal data with biophysical models and support neurophysiological inference. Simulated cell populations were linked with subject-specific white-matter connectivity estimates and driven by electroencephalography-derived electric source activity.  The models were fit to subject-specific resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging data, and overfitting was excluded using 5-fold cross-validation. Further evaluation of the models show how balancing excitation with feedback inhibition generates an inverse relationship between \u03b1-rhythms and population firing on a faster time scale and resting-state network oscillations on a slower time scale. Lastly, large-scale interactions in the model lead to the emergence of scale-free power-law spectra. Our novel findings underscore the integrative role for computational modelling to complement empirical studies.', u'/content/early/2016/11/03/085548', [], [u'Charite Berlin;', u'Baycrest Centre;', u'Aix-Marseille Universite;', u'Universitat Pompeu Fabra']]
[u'Interrogating the Topological Robustness of Gene Regulatory Circuits', ['Bin Huang', 'Mingyang Lu', 'Dongya Jia', 'Eshel Ben-Jacob', 'Herbert Levine', 'Jose Onuchic'], u'November 3, 2016.', u'One of the most important roles of cells is performing their cellular tasks properly for survival.  Cells usually achieve robust functionality, for example cell-fate decision-making and signal transduction, through multiple layers of regulation involving many genes.  Despite the combinatorial complexity of gene regulation, its quantitative behavior has been typically studied on the basis of experimentally-verified core gene regulatory circuitry, composed of a small set of important elements. It is still unclear how such a core circuit operates in the presence of many other regulatory molecules and in a crowded and noisy cellular environment.  Here we report a new computational method, named random circuit perturbation (RACIPE), for interrogating the robust dynamical behavior of a gene regulatory circuit even without accurate measurements of circuit kinetic parameters.  RACIPE generates an ensemble of random kinetic models corresponding to a fixed circuit topology, and utilizes statistical tools to identify generic properties of the circuit.  By applying RACIPE to simple toggle-switch-like motifs, we observed that the stable states of all models converge to experimentally observed gene state clusters even when the parameters are strongly perturbed.  RACIPE was further applied to a proposed 22-gene network of the Epithelial-to-Mesenchymal transition (EMT), from which we identified four experimentally observed gene states, including the states that are associated with two different types of hybrid Epithelial/Mesenchymal phenotypes.  Our results suggest that dynamics of a gene circuit is mainly determined by its topology, not by detailed circuit parameters.  Our work provides a theoretical foundation for circuit-based systems biology modeling.  We anticipate RACIPE to be a powerful tool to predict and decode circuit design principles in an unbiased manner, and to quantitatively evaluate the robustness and heterogeneity of gene expression.', u'/content/early/2016/11/03/084962', [], [u'Rice University;', u'The Jackson Laboratory;', u'Tel Aviv University']]
[u'RNA-protein binding motifs mining with a new hybrid deep learning based cross-domain knowledge integration approach', ['Xiaoyong Pan', 'Hong-Bin Shen'], u'November 3, 2016.', u'RNA plays important roles in cells through the interactions with proteins known as the RNA-binding proteins (RBP) and their binding motifs can provide crucial understanding of the post-transcriptional regulation of RNAs. How the RBPs correctly recognize the target RNA and why they bind specific positions is still far from clear. Artificial intelligence-based computational algorithms are widely acknowledged to be capable of speeding up this process. Although many automatic tools have been developed to predict the RNA-protein binding sites from the rapidly growing multi-resource data, e.g. from sequence, structure data etc, their different domain specific features and formats have posed significant computational challenges. One of current most difficulties is the cross-source shared common knowledge is usually at a higher abstraction level beyond the observed data, resulting in a low efficiency of direct integration of observed data in different domains. The other difficulty is how to interpret the prediction results. Existing approaches tend to terminate after outputting the potential discrete binding sites on the sequence, but how to assemble them into the meaningful binding motifs is a topic worth of further investigation. In viewing of these challenges, we proposed a deep learning-based framework (iDeep) by using a novel hybrid convolutional neural network and deep belief network to predict the RBP interaction sites and motifs on RNAs. This new protocol is featured by transforming the original observed data into a high-level abstraction feature space using multiple layers of learning blocks, where the shared representations across different domains are integrated. This bottom to up abstraction strategy is also very helpful to remove the noise effects in the observed data. To validate our iDeep method, we performed experiments on 31 large-scale CLIP-seq datasets, and our results show that by integrating multiple sources of data, the average AUC can be improved by 8% compared to the best single-source-based predictor; and through cross-domain knowledge integration at an abstraction level, it outperforms the state-of-the-art predictors by 6%. Besides the overall enhanced prediction performance, the convolutional neural network module embedded in iDeep is also able to automatically capture the interpretable RNA sequential binding motifs for RBPs. Large-scale experiments show that these mined binding motifs agree well with the experimentally verified results, suggesting iDeep is a promising approach in the real-world applications. The iDeep is available at https://github.com/xypan1232/iDeep.', u'/content/early/2016/11/03/085191', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Copenhagen;', u'Shanghai Jiao Tong University']]
[u'Duplicates, redundancies, and inconsistencies in the primary nucleotide databases: a descriptive study', ['Qingyu Chen', 'Justin Zobel', 'Karin Verspoor'], u'November 3, 2016.', u'GenBank, the EMBL European Nucleotide Archive, and the DNA DataBank of Japan, known collectively as the International Nucleotide Sequence Database Collaboration or INSDC, are the three most significant nucleotide sequence databases. Their records are derived from laboratory work undertaken by different individuals, by different teams, with a range of technologies and assumptions, and over a period of decades. As a consequence, they contain a great many duplicates, redundancies, and inconsistencies, but neither the prevalence nor the characteristics of various types of duplicates have been rigorously assessed. Existing duplicate detection methods in bioinformatics only address\nspecific duplicate types, with inconsistent assumptions; and the impact of duplicates in bioinformatics databases has not been carefully assessed, making it difficult to judge the value of such methods. Our goal is to assess the scale, kinds, and impact of duplicates in bioinformatics databases, through a retrospective analysis of merged groups in INSDC databases. Our outcomes are threefold: (1) We analyse a benchmark dataset consisting of duplicates manually identified in INSDC, a dataset of 67,888 merged groups with 111,823 duplicate pairs across 21 organisms from INSDC databases in terms of the prevalence, types, and impacts of duplicates. (2) We categorise duplicates at both sequence and annotation level, with supporting quantitative statistics, showing that different organisms have different prevalence of distinct kinds of duplicate. (3) We show that the presence of duplicates has practical impact via a simple case study on duplicates, in terms of GC content and melting temperature. We demonstrate that duplicates not only introduce redundancy, but can lead to inconsistent results for certain tasks. Our findings lead to a better understanding of the problem of duplication in biological databases.', u'/content/early/2016/11/03/085019', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'The University of Melbourne']]
[u'Inferring the role of habitat dynamics in driving diversification: evidence for a species pump in Lake Tanganyika cichlids', ['Thijs Janzen', 'Rampal Etienne'], u'November 3, 2016.', u'Geographic isolation that drives speciation is often assumed to slowly increase over time, for instance through the formation of rivers, the formation of mountains or the movement of tectonic plates. Cyclic changes in connectivity between areas may occur with the advancement and retraction of glaciers, with water level fluctuations in seas between islands or in lakes that have an uneven bathymetry. These habitat dynamics may act as a driver of allopatric speciation and propel local diversity. Here we present a parsimonious model of the interaction between cyclical (but not necessarily periodic) changes in the environment and speciation, and provide an ABC-SMC method to infer the rates of allopatric and sympatric speciation from a phylogenetic tree. We apply our approach to the posterior sample of an updated phylogeny of the Lamprologini, a tribe of cichlid fish from Lake Tanganyika where such cyclic changes in water level have occurred. We find that water level changes play a crucial role in driving diversity in Lake Tanganyika. We note that if we apply our analysis to the Most Credible Consensus tree, we do not find evidence for water level changes influencing diversity in the Lamprologini, suggesting that the MCC tree is a misleading representation of the true species tree. Furthermore, we note that the signature of habitat dynamics is found in the posterior sample despite the fact that this sample was constructed using a species tree prior that ignores habitat dynamics. However, in other cases this species tree prior might erase this signature. Hence we argue that in order to improve inference of the effect of habitat dynamics on biodiversity, phylogenetic reconstruction methods should include tree priors that explicitly take into account such dynamics.', u'/content/early/2016/11/03/085431', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology;', u'University of Groningen']]
[u'Benchmarks for Measurement of Duplicate Detection Methods in Nucleotide Databases', ['Qingyu Chen', 'Justin Zobel', 'Karin Verspoor'], u'November 3, 2016.', u'Duplication of information in databases is a major data quality challenge. The presence of duplicates, implying either redundancy or inconsistency, can have a range of impacts on the quality of analyses that use the data. To provide a sound basis for research on this issue in databases of nucleotide sequences, we have developed new, large-scale validated collections of duplicates, which can be used to test the effectiveness of duplicate detection methods. Previous collections were either designed primarily to test efficiency, or contained only a limited number of duplicates of limited kinds. To date, duplicate detection methods have been evaluated on separate, inconsistent benchmarks, leading to results that cannot be compared and, due to limitations of the benchmarks, of questionable generality. In this study we present three nucleotide sequence database benchmarks, based on information drawn from a range of resources, including information derived from mapping to Swiss-Prot and TrEMBL. Each benchmark has distinct characteristics. We quantify these characteristics and argue for their complementary value in evaluation. The benchmarks collectively contain a vast number of validated biological duplicates; the largest has nearly half a billion duplicate pairs (although this is probably only a tiny fraction of the total that is present). They are also the first benchmarks targeting the primary nucleotide databases. The records include the 21 most heavily studied organisms in molecular biology research. Our quantitative analysis shows that duplicates in the different benchmarks, and in different organisms, have different characteristics. It is thus unreliable to evaluate duplicate detection methods against any single benchmark. For example, the benchmark derived from Swiss-Prot mappings identifies more diverse types of duplicates, showing the importance of expert curation, but is limited to coding sequences. Overall, these benchmarks form a resource that we believe will be of great value for development and evaluation of the duplicate detection methods that are required to help maintain these essential resources.', u'/content/early/2016/11/03/085324', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'The University of Melbourne']]
[u'A novel restraint device for injection of Galleria mellonella larvae that minimises the risk of accidental operator needle stick injury', ['James P Dalton', 'Benedict Uy', 'Simon Swift', 'Siouxsie Wiles'], u'November 3, 2016.', u"Larvae of the insect Galleria mellonella are increasingly being used for studying pathogenic microbes and their virulence mechanisms, and as a rapid model for screening novel antimicrobial agents. The larvae (waxworms) are most frequently infected by injection of pathogenic organisms into the haemocoel through the insect's prolegs. The mostly widely used method for restraining the waxworms for injection is by grasping them between the operator's fingers, which puts the operator at risk of needle stick injury, an important consideration when working with highly pathogenic and/or drug-resistant microorganisms. While use of a stab proof glove can reduce this risk of injury, it does so at the loss of manual dexterity and speed, resulting in a more labour-intensive and cumbersome assay. We describe a simple cost effective device (the so-called 'Galleria Grabber') for restraining waxworms for injection that keeps the operator's fingers clear of the needle thus reducing the risk of injury.", u'/content/early/2016/11/03/085340', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Bioluminescent Superbugs Lab, University of Auckland;', u'University of Auckland']]
[u'Starting from the end: what to do when restricted data is released', ['Marta Teperek', 'Rhys Morgan', 'Michelle Renee Ellefson', 'Danny Kingsley'], u'November 3, 2016.', u'Repository managers can never be one hundred percent sure of the security of hosted research data. Even assuming that human errors and technical faults will never happen, repositories can be subject to hacking attacks. Therefore, repositories accepting personal/sensitive data (or other forms of restricted data) should have workflows in place with defined procedures to be followed should things go wrong and restricted data is inappropriately released. In this paper we will report on our considerations and procedures when restricted data from our institution was inappropriately released.', u'/content/early/2016/11/03/085100', [u'Scientific Communication and Education'], [u'University of Cambridge']]
[u'Evaluation of the accuracy of imputed sequence variants and their utility for causal variant detection in cattle', ['Hubert Pausch', 'Iona M MacLeod', 'Ruedi Fries', 'Reiner Emmerling', 'Phil J Bowman', 'Hans D Daetwyler', 'Michael E Goddard'], u'November 3, 2016.', u'Background: The availability of dense genotypes and whole-genome sequence variants from various sources offers the opportunity to compile large data sets consisting of tens of thousands of animals with genotypes for millions of polymorphic sites that may enhance the power of genomic analyses. The imputation of missing genotypes ensures that all individuals have genotypes for a shared set of variants.\nResults: We evaluated the accuracy of imputation from dense genotypes to whole-genome sequence variants in 249 Fleckvieh and 450 Holstein cattle using Minimac and FImpute. The sequence variants of a subset of the animals were reduced to the variants that were included in the Illumina BovineHD genotyping array and subsequently inferred in silico using either within- or multi-breed reference populations. The accuracy of imputation varied considerably across chromosomes and dropped at regions where the bovine genome contains segmental duplications.  Depending on the imputation strategy, the correlation between imputed and true genotypes ranged from 0.898 to 0.952. The accuracy of imputation was higher with Minimac than FImpute particularly for rare alleles. Considering a multi-breed reference population increased the accuracy of imputation, particularly when FImpute was used to infer genotypes. When the sequence variants were imputed using Minimac, the true genotypes were more correlated to predicted allele dosages than best-guess genotypes. The computing costs to impute 23,256,743 sequence variants in 6958 animals were 10-fold higher with Minimac than FImpute. Association studies with imputed sequence variants revealed seven quantitative trait loci (QTL) for milk fat percentage. Two known causal mutations in the DGAT1 and GHR genes were the most significantly associated variants at two QTL on chromosomes 14 and 20 when Minimac was used to infer genotypes.  Conclusions: The population-based imputation of millions of sequence variants in large cohorts provides accurate genotypes and is computationally feasible. Using a reference population that includes individuals from many breeds increases the accuracy of imputation particularly at low-frequency variants. Considering allele dosages rather than best-guess genotypes as explanatory variables is advantageous for association studies with imputed sequence variants.', u'/content/early/2016/11/03/085399', [u'Genomics'], [u'Biosciences Research;', u'Biosciences Research, DEDJTR;', u'Technische Universitaet Muenchen;', u'Institute of Animal Breeding, Bavarian State Research Center for Agriculture;', u'School of Applied Systems Biology, LaTrobe University; Biosciences Research, DEDJTR;', u'Faculty of Veterinary and Agricultural Sciences, University of Melbourne']]
[u'The lexical categorization model: A computational model of left ventral occipito-temporal cortex activation in visual word recognition', ['Benjamin Gagl', 'Fabio Richlan', 'Philipp Ludersdorfer', 'Jona Sassenhagen', 'Christian J. Fiebach'], u'November 3, 2016.', u'To characterize the role of the left ventral occipito-temporal cortex (lvOT) during visual word recognition in a quantitatively explicit and testable manner, we propose the lexical categorization model (LCM) according to which lvOT categorizes perceived letter strings into words or non-words. LCM simulations successfully replicate nine benchmark results from human functional brain imaging. Empirically, using functional magnetic resonance imaging and electroencephalography, we demonstrate that quantitative LCM simulations predict lvOT activation and brain activation at an expected time window, respectively. In addition, we found that word-likeness, which is assumed as input to LCM, is represented posterior to lvOT and before the lexical categorization. In contrast, a dichotomous word/non-word contrast, which is the assumed as output of the LCM, could be localized to upstream frontal brain regions. Thus, we propose a ventral-visual-stream processing framework for visual word recognition involving word-likeness extraction followed by lexical categorization, prior to the extraction of word meaning.', u'/content/early/2016/11/03/085332', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Goethe University Frankfurt;', u'University of Salzburg;', u'University College London']]
[u'All or Nothing: the False Promise of Anonymity', ['Neil M Walker'], u'November 3, 2016.', u'In early 2016, the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors (ICMJE) proposed that responsible sharing of de-identified individual-level data be required for clinical trials published in their affiliated journals.  There would be a delay in implementing this policy to allow for the necessary informed consents to work their way through ethical review. Meanwhile, some researchers and policy makers have conflated the notions of de-identification and anonymity.  The former is a process that seeks to mitigate disclosure risk though careful application of rules and statistical analysis, while the latter is an absolute state.  The consequence of confusing the process and the state is profound. Extensions to the ICMJE proposal based on the presumed anonymity of data include: sharing unconsented data; sharing data without managing access, as Open Data; and proposals to sell data.  This essay aims to show that anonymity (the state) cannot be guaranteed by de-identification (the process), and so these extensions to the ICMJE proposal should be rejected on governance grounds, if no other.  This is not as negative a position as it might seem, as other disciplines have been aware of these limitations and concomitant responsibilities for many years.  The essay concludes with an example from social science of managed access strategies that could be adopted by the medical field.', u'/content/early/2016/11/03/084921', [u'Scientific Communication and Education'], [u'Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust']]
[u'Identifying Migrant Origins Using Genetics, Isotopes, and Habitat Suitability', ['Kristen C Ruegg', 'Eric Anderson', 'Ryan J Harrigan', 'Kristina L Paxton', 'Jeff Kelly', 'Frank Moore', 'Thomas B Smith'], u'November 3, 2016.', u"1.  Identifying migratory connections across the annual cycle is important for studies of migrant ecology, evolution, and conservation.  While recent studies have demonstrated the utility of high-resolution SNP-based genetic markers for identifying population-specific migratory patterns, the accuracy of this approach relative to other intrinsic tagging techniques has not yet been assessed.  2.  Here, using a straightforward application of Bayes' Rule, we develop a method for combining inferences from high-resolution genetic markers, stable isotopes, and habitat suitability models, to spatially infer the breeding origin of migrants captured anywhere along their migratory pathway. Using leave-one-out cross validation, we compare the accuracy of this combined approach with the accuracy attained using each source of data independently.  3. Our results indicate that when each method is considered in isolation, the accuracy of genetic assignments far exceeded that of assignments based on stable isotopes or habitat suitability models.  However, our joint assignment method consistently resulted in small, but informative increases in accuracy and did help to correct misassignments based on genetic data alone.  We demonstrate the utility of the combined method by identifying previously undetectable patterns in the timing of migration in a North American migratory songbird, the Wilson's warbler.  4.  Overall, our results support the idea that while genetic data provides the most accurate method for tracking animals using intrinsic markers when each method is considered independently, there is value in combining all three methods.  The resulting methods are provided as part of a new computationally-efficient R-package, GIAIH, allowing broad application of our statistical framework to other migratory animal systems.", u'/content/early/2016/11/03/085456', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of California, Santa Cruz;', u'NOAA;', u'University of California, Los Angeles;', u'Department of Biology, University of Hawaii, Hilo;', u'Oklahoma Biological Survey, University of Oklahoma;', u'University of Southern Mississippi']]
[u'Standard Issue: Copy number heterogeneity of JC virus standards discovered through next-generation sequencing', ['Alexander Greninger', 'Allen C Bateman', 'Ederlyn E. Atienza', 'Sharon Wendt', 'Keith R. Jerome', 'Linda Cook'], u'November 3, 2016.', u'Quantitative PCR is a diagnostic mainstay of clinical virology, and accurate quantitation of viral load among labs requires the use of international standards.  However, the use of multiple passages of viral isolates to obtain sufficient material for international standards may result in genomic changes that complicate their use as quantitative standards.  We performed next-generation sequencing to gain single-nucleotide resolution and relative copy number of JC virus (JCV) clinical standards.  Strikingly, the WHO international standard and Exact v1/v2 prototype standards for JCV showed 8-fold and 4-fold variation in genomic coverage between different loci in the viral genome, respectively, due to large deletions in the large T-antigen region.  No such variation was seen for a clinical sample with high copy-number of JCV nor a plasmid control.  Intriguingly, several of the JCV standards sequenced in this study with large T-antigen deletions were cultured in cell lines immortalized using SV40 T-antigen, suggesting the possibility of trans-complementation in cell culture.  Using a cut-off of 2% variant allele fraction for junctional reads to define the presence of a strain, 11 different strains were present in the WHO standard. In summary, targeting of different regions of the same international standard could result in up to an 8-fold difference in quantitation. We recommend the use of next-generation sequencing to validate standards in clinical virology.', u'/content/early/2016/11/03/085415', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Washington']]
[u'Phylogenetic relationships and genome size evolution within the genus \tAmaranthus indicate the ancestors of an ancient crop', ['Markus G Stetter', 'Karl J Schmid'], u'November 3, 2016.', u'The genus Amaranthus consists of about 70 species and harbors several cultivated and weedy species of great economic importance. A lack of suitable traits, phenotypic plasticity, gene flow and hybridization made it difficult to establish the taxonomy and phylogeny of the whole genus despite various studies using molecular markers. We inferred the phylogeny of the Amaranthus genus using genotyping by sequencing (GBS) of 94 individuals from 35 Amaranthus and compared single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) calling rates with reference-based and de novo methods. For reference-based SNP calling we used the distant sugarbeet Beta vulgaris and the closely related Amaranthus hypochondriacus as references, and in addition two different parameter sets for the de novo SNP calling. We obtained different numbers of SNPs and proportions of missing data, but the phylogenetic trees calculated from these data were very similar. We estimated a species tree for the genus using the multispecies coalescent. Both phylogenetic methods supported the taxonomic grouping into three subgenera although the subgenus A. Acnida consists of two highly differentiated clades. In contrast, the Hybridus complex within the A. Amaranthus subgenus that includes grain amaranths and their wild relatives was well separated from the other species. However, it was not differentiated into species but into geographic origin from South and Central America. Different geographically separated populations of Amaranthus hybridus appear to be the common ancestors of the three cultivated grain species and A. quitensis might be further involved in the evolution of South American grain amaranth (A. caudatus). We also measured genome sizes of the species and observed little variation with the exception of two lineages that showed evidence for a recent polyploidization.', u'/content/early/2016/11/03/085472', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Hohenheim']]
[u'An evolving cancer instigates clonally unrelated neighboring cells to form distant metastases.', ['Jie Dong', 'Cedric Darini', 'Farhia Kabeer', 'Sarah Dendievel', 'Junxia Min', 'Dolores Hambardzumyan', 'Louis Gaboury', 'Tom Lenaerts', 'Guillaume Darrasse-Jeze', 'Yi Li', 'Katrina Podsypanina'], u'November 3, 2016.', u'Based on the clonal evolution theory of cancer formation, a single cell within a tissue gains a cancer-driving mutation and thus a growth advantage. From this expanded cellular mass, another cell gains a new mutation allowing this newly mutated cell to gain new competitive advantage and to expand in number (thus clonal expansion).  Another clone then emerges.  Eventually all required mutations are gained, and a cancer forms.  Consequently, while a primary lesion may harbor divergent subclones, all the subclones within the primary cancer as well as all metastatic growths in secondary organs share at least the very first oncogenic mutation that initiates the primary cancer. However, by tracking genetically marked mammary epithelial cells that suffered the initiating oncogenic mutation - and their neighboring mammary cells that did not - in several mouse models of human breast cancer, we found that genetically unrelated mammary epithelial cells can be colluded by neighboring mutated cells to disseminate, and that they can even undergo de novo tumorigenic transformation and form distant metastases.  Therefore, clonally unrelated epithelial cells may contribute to cancer progression and to the heterogeneity of the systemic disease. The non-linear cancer spread has important implications in cancer prevention, treatment, and therapeutic resistance.', u'/content/early/2016/11/03/085423', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Baylor College of Medicine;', u'Lady Davis Institute for Medical Research;', u'British Columbia Cancer Agency;', u'Ghent University;', u'Zhejiang University;', u'Lerner Research Institute;', u'Universit\xe9 de Montr\xe9al;', u'Universit\xe9 Libre de Bruxelles;', u'Universit\xe9 Ren\xe9 Descartes;', u'Institut Curie']]
[u'Feature-coding transitions to conjunction-coding with progression through human visual cortex', ['Rosemary A. Cowell', 'John T. Serences'], u'November 3, 2016.', u'Identifying an object and distinguishing it from similar items depends upon the ability to perceive its component parts as conjoined into a cohesive whole, but the brain mechanisms underlying this ability remain elusive. The ventral visual processing pathway in primates is organized hierarchically: Neuronal responses in its early stages are sensitive to the manipulation of simple visual features whereas neuronal responses in subsequent stages are tuned to increasingly complex stimulus attributes. It is widely assumed that feature-coding dominates in early visual cortex whereas later visual regions employ conjunction-coding in which object representations are different from the sum of their simple-feature parts. However, no study has demonstrated that putative object-level codes in higher visual cortex cannot be accounted for by feature-coding and that putative feature-codes in regions prior to ventral temporal cortex are not equally well characterized as object-level codes. Thus the existence of a transition from feature- to conjunction-coding in visual cortex remains unconfirmed, and, if a transition does occur, its location remains unknown. By employing multivariate analysis of human functional imaging data, we measure both feature-coding and conjunction-coding directly, using the same set of visual stimuli, and pit them against each other to reveal the relative dominance of one versus the other throughout cortex. We provide the first demonstration of a transition from feature-coding in early visual cortex to conjunction-coding in both inferior temporal and posterior parietal cortices. This novel method enables the use of experimentally controlled stimulus features to investigate population-level feature- and conjunction-codes throughout human cortex.', u'/content/early/2016/11/03/085381', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Massachusetts Amherst;', u'University of California at San Diego']]
[u'Tissue specificity of in vitro drug sensitivity', ['Fupan Yao', 'Seyed Ali Madani Tonekaboni', 'Zhaleh Safikhani', 'Petr Smirnov', 'Nehme El-Hachem', 'Mark Freeman', 'Venkata Satya Kumar Manem', 'Benjamin Haibe-Kains'], u'November 3, 2016.', u'Research in oncology traditionally focuses on specific tissue type from which the cancer develops. However, advances in high-throughput molecular profiling technologies have enabled the comprehensive characterization of molecular aberrations in multiple cancer types. It was hoped that these large-scale datasets would provide the foundation for a paradigm shift in oncology which would see tumors being classified by their molecular profiles rather than tissue types, but tumors with similar genomic aberrations may respond differently to targeted therapies depending on their tissue of origin. There is therefore a need to reassess the potential association between pharmacological response and tissue of origin for therapeutic drugs, and to test how these associations translate from preclinical to clinical settings.\n\n\nIn this paper, we investigate the tissue specificity of drug sensitivities in large-scale pharmacological studies and compare these associations to those found in clinical trial descriptions. Our meta-analysis of the four largest in vitro drug screening datasets indicates that tissue of origin is strongly associated with drug response. We identify novel tissue-drug associations, which may present exciting new avenues for drug repurposing. One caveat is that the vast majority of the significant associations found in preclinical settings do not concur with clinical observations. Accordingly, our results call for more testing to find the root cause of the discrepancies between preclinical and clinical observations.', u'/content/early/2016/11/03/085357', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Princess Margaret Cancer Centre;', u'Institut de recherches cliniques de Montreal;', u'Princes Margaret Cancer Centre;', u'University Health Network']]
[u'The neural basis of precise visual short-term memory for complex recognisable objects', ['Michele Veldsman', 'Daniel J Mitchell', 'Rhodri Cusack'], u'November 3, 2016.', u'Visual short-term memory (VSTM) for simple objects, such as coloured shapes, has been extensively studied, yet objects in our visual environment are vastly richer, semantically loaded, and recognisable. Recognisability may boost VSTM capacity, recruit additional resources, or widen the representational space within which complex objects are encoded and maintained in VSTM. We used a novel stimulus generation method to parametrically warp photographic images along a continuum, allowing separate estimation of the precision of memory representations and the number of items retained. The stimulus generation method was also designed to create unrecognisable, though perceptually matched, stimuli, to investigate the impact of recognisability on VSTM. We adapted the widely used change detection and continuous report paradigms for use with complex, photographic images. Across three functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiments, we demonstrate greater precision for recognisable objects in VSTM compared to unrecognisable objects. This clear behavioural advantage is not the result of recruitment of additional brain regions. Representational similarity analysis revealed greater variability across item repetitions in the representations of recognisable, compared to unrecognisable complex objects. We therefore propose that a richer range of neural representations support VSTM for complex recognisable objects.', u'/content/early/2016/11/03/085068', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Oxford;', u'Medical Research Council Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit;', u'Brain and Mind Institute, University of Western Ontario']]
[u'The Monarch Initiative: Insights across species reveal human disease mechanisms', ['Christopher Mungall', 'Julie McMurry', 'Sebastian Koehler', 'James Balhoff', 'Charles Borromeo', 'Matthew Brush', 'Seth Carbon', 'TOM CONLIN', 'Nathan Dunn', 'Mark Engelstad', 'Erin Foster', 'Jean-Philippe Gourdine', 'Julius Jacobsen', 'Daniel Keith', 'Bryan Laraway', 'Suzanna Lewis', 'Jeremy Nguyen Xuan', 'Kent Shefchek', 'Nicole Vasilevsky', 'Zhou Yuan', 'Nicole Washington', 'Harry Hochheiser', 'Tudor Groza', 'Damian Smedley', 'Peter Robinson', 'Melissa Haendel'], u'November 3, 2016.', u'The principles of genetics apply across the whole tree of life: on a cellular level, we share mechanisms with species from which we diverged millions or even billions of years ago. We can exploit this common ancestry at the level of sequences, but also in terms of observable outcomes (phenotypes), to learn more about health and disease for humans and all other species. Applying the range of available knowledge to solve challenging disease problems requires unified data relating genomics, phenotypes, and disease; it also requires computational tools that leverage these multimodal data to inform interpretations by geneticists and to suggest experiments. However, the distribution and heterogeneity of databases is a major impediment: databases tend to focus either on a single data type across species, or on single species across data types. Although each database provides rich, high-quality information, no single one provides unified data that is comprehensive across species, biological scales, and data types. Without a big-picture view of the data, many questions in genetics are difficult or impossible to answer.  The Monarch Initiative (https://monarchinitiative.org) is an international consortium dedicated to providing computational tools that leverage a computational representation of phenotypic data for genotype-phenotype analysis, genomic diagnostics, and precision medicine on the basis of a large-scale platform of multimodal data that is deeply integrated across species and covering broad areas of disease.', u'/content/early/2016/11/03/055756', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'LBNL;', u'OHSU;', u'Charite;', u'RTI;', u'UPitt;', u'QMUL;', u'Garvan;', u'Jackson Laboratory']]
[u'Transcriptomics reveals patterns of sexually dimorphic gene expression in an avian hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis', ['Matthew MacManes', 'Suzanne Austin', 'Andrew Lang', 'April Booth', 'Victoria Farrar', 'Rebecca M Calisi'], u'November 3, 2016.', u'The hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis is a key biological system required for reproduction and associated sexual behaviors to occur. Each of these tissues, the hypothalamus in the brain, the pituitary gland, and the gonads (testes and ovaries), has specialized and sometimes sex-specific functions that promote, amongst other things, reproductive processes. To fully characterize the transcript community of each aspect of the HPG axis, as well as to uncover potentially important sex-specific differences, we characterized patterns of gene expression in sexually mature male and female rock dove (Columba livia) hypothalamus, pituitary, and gonads. We describe patterns of gene expression amongst tissues as well as patterns of sex-biased gene expression which may underlie some of the fundamental differences between male and female reproductive behavior. We report greater sex-biased differential expression in the pituitary (n=233 genes) as compared to the hypothalamus (n=1 gene), with multiple genes overexpressed in the male pituitary gland being related to locomotion, and multiple genes over-expressed in the female pituitary gland being related to reproduction, growth and development. These genes may be associated with facilitating the different roles the HPG system plays in sex-specific reproductive behavior, including life-history strategies characterized by short-term payoffs in males (i.e. locomotion) and longer-term payoffs in females (i.e. development and reproduction). In addition, we report novel patterns of sex-biased expression in genes involved in reproduction-associated processes. Gonadotropin-releasing hormone, Progesterone, and Androgen receptor were upregulated in the female pituitary as compared to the male pituitary. We also found greater expression of Prolactin in the female pituitary as compared to the male pituitary, but it was more highly expressed in the male hypothalamus as compared to the female hypothalamus. The Prolactin receptor was also more highly expressed in the male hypothalamus and pituitary gland as compared to corresponding female tissues. Finally, we discovered greater expression of Arginine Vasopressin Receptor 1A in the male pituitary as compared to the female pituitary. Using a more global analysis, we discovered other interesting sex-biased patterns in genes not originally targeted for investigation. These genes include like Betacellulin (BTC), which was upregulated in the female pituitary and compared to males, and Ecto-NOX Disulfide-Thiol Exchanger 1 (ENOX1), which was upregulated in the male pituitary as compared to females. These genes may play important, though currently unknown, roles in reproductive physiology and behavior. In conclusion, we reveal patterns of tissue specific and sexually dimorphic gene expression in the HPG axis, highlighting the need for sex parity in transcriptomic studies and providing new lines of investigation of the mechanisms of reproductive function.', u'/content/early/2016/11/03/085365', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of New Hampshire;', u'University of California, Davis']]
[u'Long-range suppressive influences from the visual surround can be explained by anatomically plausible recruitment of local competition in a model of columnar cortex', ['Hongzhi You', 'Giacomo Indiveri', 'Dylan Muir'], u'November 3, 2016.', u'Although neurons in columns of tissue in visual cortex of adult carnivores and primates share similar preferences for the orientation of a visual stimulus, they can nevertheless have sparse and temporally uncorrelated firing visual response properties. This effect is supported by the observation that long-range excitatory connections between cortical neurons are functionally specific, because they interconnect columns with similar orientation preference, and local short-range ones are unspecific and sparse. Coupled with strong local inhibition, this network architecture is a good recipe for local competition arranged within a cortical column. In this paper we propose a model architecture that is consistent with these experimental and anatomical findings, and which explains the emergence of orientation-tuned surround suppression. We explore the effect of local columnar competition, coupled with local and long-range functional specificity, as substrates for integration of responses from the visual surround in columnar visual cortex. In addition, we show how presentation of simulated full-field complex visual stimuli, designed to approximate visual scenes, leads to reduced correlation of local excitatory responses and increased excitatory response selectivity (lifetime sparseness). These effects occurred simultaneously with increased inhibitory activity and decreased inhibitory sparseness, consistent with recordings of excitatory and inhibitory neurons in cortex. In our networks competition, reduced correlation and increased sparseness depended on both local and long-range specific excitatory connectivity. The mechanism of local competition implemented in our model explains several aspects of integration of information from the visual surround, and is consistent with experimentally measured spatial profiles of cortical excitation and inhibition.', u'/content/early/2016/11/03/079962', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Electronic Science and Technology of China;', u'University / ETH Zurich;', u'University of Basel']]
