[u'The food web of Potter Cove (Antarctica): complexity, structure and function', ['Tomas I Marina', 'Vanesa Salinas', 'Georgina Cordone', 'Gabriela Campana', 'Maria Eugenia Moreira', 'Dolores Deregibus', 'Luciana Torre', 'Ricardo Sahade', 'Marcos Tatian', 'Esteban Barrera Oro', 'Marleen De Troch', 'Santiago Doyle', 'Maria Liliana Quartino', 'Leonardo Saravia', 'Fernando R Momo'], u'December 27, 2016.', u'The study of food web structure and complexity are central to better understand ecosystem functioning. A food-web approach includes both species and energy flows among them, providing a natural framework for characterizing species ecological roles and the mechanisms through which biodiversity influences ecosystem dynamics. Here we present for the first time a high-resolution food web for the Potter Cove marine ecosystem (Antarctica). We studied eleven food web properties to analyze network complexity, structure and topology. We found a low linkage density (3.4), connectance (0.04) and omnivory percentage (45), as well as short path length (1.8) and low clustering coefficient (0.08). Furthermore, relating the structure of the web to its dynamics, we found an exponential degree distribution (in- and out-links) suggesting that Potter Cove food web may be fragile if the most connected species got extinct. For two of the three more connected functional groups, competition overlap graphs reflect high trophic interaction between demersal fish and niche specialization according to feeding strategies in amphipods. On the other hand, it can be inferred from the prey overlap graph that multiple energy pathways of carbon flux exist across benthic and pelagic habitats in Potter Cove ecosystem. Although alternative food sources might add robustness to the web, network properties (low linkage density, connectance and omnivory) suggest fragility and potential trophic cascade effects.', u'/content/early/2016/12/27/094557', [], [u'Instituto de Ciencias, Universidad Nacional de General Sarmiento;', u'INEDES, Universidad Nacional de Lujan;', u'Instituto Antartico Argentino;', u'Instituto de Diversidad y Ecologia Animal, Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Cientificas y Tecnica;', u'Marine Biology Laboratory, Ghent University;', u'Direccion Nacional del Antartico, Instituto Antartico Argentino']]
[u'tensorBF: an R package for Bayesian tensor factorization', ['Suleiman A. Khan', 'Muhammad Ammad-ud-din'], u'December 27, 2016.', u'With recent advancements in measurement technologies, many multi-way and tensor datasets have started to emerge. Exploiting the natural tensor structure in the data has been shown to be advantageous for both explorative and predictive studies in several application areas of bioinformatics and computational biology. Therefore, there has subsequently arisen a need for robust and flexible tools for effectively analyzing tensor data sets.\nWe present the R package tensorBF, which is the first R package providing Bayesian factorization of a tensor. Our package implements a generative model that automatically identifies the number of factors needed to explain the tensor, overcoming a key limitation of traditional tensor factorizations. We also recommend best practices when using tensor factorizations for both, explorative and predictive analysis with an example application on drug response dataset. The package also implements tools related to the normalization of data, informative noise priors and visualization.\nAvailability: The package is available at https://users.ics.aalto.fi/ammad/tensorBF.zip', u'/content/early/2016/12/27/097048', [], [u'Institute for Molecular Medicine Finland FIMM;', u'Helsinki Institute for Information Technology HIIT, Department of Computer Science, Aalto University']]
[u'Super-resolution Imaging of Synaptic and Extra-synaptic Pools of AMPA Receptors with Different- sized Fluorescent Probes', ['Sang Hak Lee', 'Chaoyi Jin', 'En Cai', 'Pinghua Ge', 'Yuji Ishitsuka', 'Kai Wen Teng', 'Andre A. de Thomaz', 'Duncan L. Nall', 'Murat Baday', 'Okunola Jeyifous', 'Daniel Demonte', 'Christopher M. Dundas', 'Sheldon Park', 'William N. Green', 'Paul R. Selvin'], u'December 27, 2016.', u'Whether AMPA receptors (AMPARs) enter into neuronal synapses, by exocytosis from an internal pool, or by diffusion from an external membrane-bound pool, is hotly contested. 3D super-resolution fluorescent nanoscopy to measure the dynamics and placement of AMPAR is a powerful method for addressing this issue. However, probe size and accessibility to tightly packed spaces can be limiting. We have therefore labeled AMPARs with differently sized fluorophores: small organic fluorescent dyes (~ 4 nm), small quantum dots (sQD, ~10 nm in diameter), or big (commercial) quantum dots (bQD, ~ 20 nm in diameter). We then compared their diffusion rate, trajectories, and placement with respect to a postsynaptic density (PSD) protein, Homer 1c. Labeled with the small probes of sQDs or organic fluorophores, we find that AMPARs are located largely within PSDs (~73-93%), and generally reside in "nanodomains" with constrained diffusion. In contrast, when labeled with bQDs, only 5-10% of AMPARs are within PSDs. The results can be explained by relatively free access, or lack thereof, to synaptic clefts of the AMPARs when labeled with small or big probes, respectively. This implies that AMPARs primarily enter PSDs soon after their exocytosis and not from a large diffusive pool of extrasynaptic AMPARs.', u'/content/early/2016/12/27/096966', [], [u'University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign;', u'University of Chicago;', u'State University of New York at Buffalo']]
[u'Fenton-type chemistry by a copper enzyme: molecular mechanism of polysaccharide oxidative cleavage', ['Bastien Bissaro', 'Asmund K Rohr', 'Morten Skaugen', 'Zarah Forsberg', 'Svein J Horn', 'Gustav Vaaje-Kolstad', 'Vincent Eijsink'], u'December 27, 2016.', u'The discovery of Lytic Polysaccharide Monooxygenases (LPMOs) has been instrumental for the development of economically sustainable lignocellulose biorefineries. Despite the obvious importance of these exceptionally powerful redox enzymes, their mode of action remains enigmatic and their activity and stability under process conditions are hard to control. By using enzyme assays, mass spectrometry and experiments with labeled oxygen atoms, we show that H2O2, and not O2 as previously thought, is the co-substrate of LPMOs. By controlling H2O2 supply, stable reaction kinetics and high enzymatic rates are achieved, the LPMOs work under anaerobic conditions, and the need for adding stoichiometric amounts of reductants is alleviated. These results offer completely new perspectives regarding the mode of action of these unique mono-copper enzymes, the enzymatic conversion of biomass in Nature, and industrial biorefining.', u'/content/early/2016/12/27/097022', [], [u'INRA, UMR792, Ingenierie des Systemes Biologiques et des Procedes, F-31400 Toulouse, France;', u'Norwegian University of Life Sciences (NMBU), P.O. Box 5003, N-1432 Aas, Norway']]
[u'Canonical and cross-reactive binding of NK cell inhibitory receptors to HLA-C allotypes is dictated by peptides bound to HLA-C', ['Malcolm J. W. Sim', 'Stacy A. Malaker', 'Ayesha Khan', 'Janet M. Stowell', 'Jeffrey Shabanowitz', 'Mary E. Peterson', 'Sumati Rajagopalan', 'Donald F. Hunt', 'Daniel M. Altmann', 'Eric O. Long', 'Rosemary J. Boyton'], u'December 27, 2016.', u'Background. Human natural killer (NK) cell activity is regulated by a family of killer-cell Ig-like receptors (KIR) that bind human leucocyte antigen (HLA) class I. Combinations of KIR and HLA genotypes are associated with disease, including susceptibility to viral infection and disorders of pregnancy. KIR2DL1 binds HLA-C alleles of group C2 (Lys80) and KIR2DL2 and KIR2DL3 bind HLA-C alleles of group C1 (Asn80). However, this model does not capture allelic diversity in HLA-C or the impact of HLA-bound peptides. The goal of this study was to determine the extent to which the endogenous HLA-C peptide repertoire can influence the specific binding of inhibitory KIR to HLA-C allotypes. Results. The impact of HLA-C bound peptide on inhibitory KIR binding was investigated taking advantage of the fact that HLA-C*05:01 (HLA-C group 2, C2) and HLA-C*08:02 (HLA-C group 1, C1) have identical sequences apart from the key KIR specificity determining epitope at residues 77 and 80. Endogenous peptides were eluted from HLA-C*05:01 and used to test the peptide dependence of KIR2DL1 and KIR2DL2/3 binding to HLA-C*05:01 and HLA-C*08:02 and subsequent impact on NK cell function. Specific binding of KIR2DL1 to the C2 allotype occurred with the majority of peptides tested. In contrast, KIR2DL2/3 binding to the C1 allotype occurred with only a subset of peptides. Cross-reactive binding of KIR2DL2/3 with the C2 allotype was restricted to even fewer peptides. Unexpectedly, two peptides promoted binding of the C2 allotype-specific KIR2DL1 to the C1 allotype. We showed that presentation of endogenous peptides, or predicted HIV Gag peptides, by HLA-C can promote KIR cross-reactive binding. Conclusions. KIR2DL2/3 binding to C1 is more peptide selective than that of KIR2DL1 binding to C2, which provides an explanation for why KIR2DL3-C1 interactions appear weaker than KIR2DL1-C2. In addition, cross-reactive binding of KIR is characterized by even higher peptide selectivity. We demonstrate a hierarchy of functional peptide selectivity of KIR-HLA-C interactions with relevance to NK cell biology and human disease associations. This selective peptide sequence-driven binding of KIR provides a potential mechanism for pathogen as well as self-peptide to modulate NK cell activation through altering levels of inhibition.', u'/content/early/2016/12/27/096958', [], [u'National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases;', u'University of Virginia;', u'Imperial College London']]
[u'DNAlogo: a smart mini application for generating DNA sequence logos', ['Yabin GUO'], u'December 27, 2016.', u"Sequence logo is a powerful tool for presenting consensus sequences or motifs of nucleic acids and proteins (Schneider and Stephens 1990). WebLogo, a web-based sequence logo generator hosted by the University of California, Berkeley is the most popular logo generator so far (Crooks et al. 2004). WebLogo has a graphical interface and is convenient and highly configurable. However, its application is occasionally restricted by the internet speed, especially in developing countries. Moreover, when the sequence number exceeds 10,000, a command line interface will have to be used instead of graphical interface, but many users in biological sciences fields found it difficult to perform the installation and configuration of WebLogo and GhostScript (for vector map output) due to lacking relative knowledge. Here I made an application, DNAlogo, which creates DNA sequence logos in Windows with a graphical interface. The operation of DNAlogo doesn't need any knowledge on programming or bioinformatics.", u'/content/early/2016/12/27/096933', [], [u'Sun Yat-sen University']]
[u'NATURAL SELECTION ON MHC II\u0392 IN PARAPATRIC LAKE AND STREAM STICKLEBACK: BALANCING, DIVERGENT, BOTH, OR NEITHER?', ['William Stutz', 'Daniel Bolnick'], u'December 27, 2016.', u'Major histocompatibility (MHC) genes encode proteins that play a central role in vertebrates adaptive immunity to parasites. MHC loci are among the most polymorphic in vertebrates genomes, inspiring many studies to identify evolutionary processes driving MHC polymorphism within populations, and divergence between populations. Leading hypotheses include balancing selection favoring rare alleles within populations, and spatially divergent selection. These hypotheses do not always produce diagnosably distinct predictions, causing many studies of MHC to yield inconsistent or ambiguous results. We suggest a novel strategy to distinguish balancing versus divergent selection on MHC, taking advantage of natural admixture between parapatric populations. With divergent selection, immigrant alleles will be more infected and less fit because they are susceptible to novel parasites in their new habitat. With balancing selection, locally-rare immigrant alleles will be more fit (less infected). We tested these contrasting predictions using threespine stickleback from three replicate pairs of parapatric lake and stream habitats. We found numerous positive and negative associations between particular MHC IIb; alleles and particular parasite taxa. A few allele-parasite comparisons supported balancing selection, others supported divergent selection between habitats. But, there was no overall tendency for fish with immigrant MHC alleles to be more or less heavily infected. Instead, locally rare MHC alleles (not necessarily immigrants) were associated with heavier infections. Our results illustrate the complex relationship between MHC IIb; allelic variation and spatially varying multi-species parasite communities: different hypotheses may be concurrently true for different allele-parasite combinations.', u'/content/early/2016/12/27/096917', [], [u'Western Michigan University;', u'University of Texas at Austin']]
[u'Dealing with many correlated covariates in capture-recapture models', ['Olivier Gimenez', 'Christophe Barbraud'], u'December 27, 2016.', u'Capture-recapture models for estimating demographic parameters allow covariates to be incorporated to better understand population dynamics. However, high-dimensionality and multicollinearity can hamper estimation and inference. We propose a modeling framework to account for these two issues. Principal component analysis is used to reduce the number of predictors into uncorrelated synthetic new variables. Principal components are selected by sequentially assessing their statistical significance. We provide an example on seabird survival to illustrate our approach. Our method requires standard statistical tools, which permits an efficient and easy implementation using standard software.', u'/content/early/2016/12/27/097006', [], [u'CNRS']]
[u'Network based conditional genome wide association analysis of human metabolomics', ['Yakov A. Tsepilov', 'Sodbo Zh. Sharapov', 'Olga O. Zaytseva', 'Jan Krumsiek', 'Cornelia Prehn', 'Jerzy Adamski', 'Gabi Kastenmuller', 'Rui Wang-Sattler', 'Konstantin Strauch', 'Christian Gieger', 'Yurii S. Aulchenko'], u'December 27, 2016.', u'Background: Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified hundreds of loci influencing complex human traits, however, their biological mechanism of action remains mostly unknown. Recent accumulation of functional genomics (\u2018omics\u2019) including metabolomics data opens up opportunities to provide a new insight into the functional role of specific changes in the genome. Functional genomic data are characterized by high dimensionality, presence of (strong) statistical dependencies between traits, and, potentially, complex genetic control. Therefore, analysis of such data asks for development of specific statistical genetic methods.  Results: We propose a network-based, conditional approach to evaluate the impact of genetic variants on omics phenotypes (conditional GWAS, cGWAS). For each trait of interest, based on biological network, we select a set of other traits to be used as covariates in GWAS. The network could be reconstructed either from biological pathway databases or directly from the data. We evaluated our approach using data from a population-based KORA study (n=1,784, 1.7 M SNPs) with measured metabolomics data (151 metabolites) and demonstrated that our approach allows for identification of up to five additional loci not detected by conventional GWAS. We show that this gain in power is achieved through increased precision of genetic effect estimates, and in presence of specific \u2018contra-intuitive\u2019 pleiotropic scenarios (when genetic and environmental sources of covariance are acting in opposite manner). We justify existence of such scenarios, and discuss possible applications of our method beyond metabolomics.   Conclusions: We demonstrate that in context of metabolomics network-based, conditional genome-wide association analysis is able to dramatically increase power of identification of loci with specific \u2018contra-intuitive\u2019 pleiotropic architecture. Our method has modest computational costs, can utilize summary level GWAS data, and is applicable to other omics data types. We anticipate that application of our method to new and existing data sets will facilitate progress in understanding genetic bases of control of molecular and complex phenotypes.', u'/content/early/2016/12/27/096982', [], [u'Institute of Cytology and Genetics SB RAS;', u'Institute of Computational Biology, Helmholtz Zentrum M\xfcnchen;', u'Institute of Experimental Genetics, Genome Analysis Center, Helmholtz Zentrum M\xfcnchen;', u'Institute of Bioinformatics and Systems Biology, Helmholtz Zentrum M\xfcnchen;', u'German Center for Diabetes Research;', u'Institute of Genetic Epidemiology, Helmholtz Zentrum M\xfcnchen']]
[u'Environment determines evolutionary trajectory in a constrained phenotypic space', ['David T Fraebel', 'Harry Mickalide', 'Diane Schnitkey', 'Jason Merritt', 'Thomas E Kuhlman', 'Seppe Kuehn'], u'December 27, 2016.', u'Constraints on phenotypic variation limit the capacity of organisms to adapt to the multiple selection pressures encountered in natural environments.  To better understand evolutionary dynamics in this context, we select Escherichia coli for faster migration through a porous environment, a process which depends on both motility and growth.  We find that a trade-off between swimming speed and growth rate constrains the evolution of faster migration.  Evolving faster migration in rich medium results in slow growth and fast swimming, while evolution in minimal medium results in fast growth and slow swimming.  In each condition parallel genomic evolution drives adaptation through different mutations.  We show that the trade-off is mediated by antagonistic pleiotropy through mutations that affect negative regulation.  A model of the evolutionary process shows that the genetic capacity of an organism to vary traits can qualitatively alter the evolutionary trajectory when selection pressures are complex.', u'/content/early/2016/12/27/096909', [], [u'University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign']]
[u'Creating a National Vector Surveillance System: Integrated mosquito trap data and digital epidemiology', ['Samuel S.C. Rund', 'Micaela E. Martinez'], u'December 27, 2016.', u'Fluctuating population dynamics and shifting ranges, behavior, and phenology make monitoring of mosquito populations essential in controlling emerging pathogens. Despite ~1000 US mosquito control agencies, there is no centralized collation of their data. We provide a roadmap for the creation of a National Vector Surveillance System, for mosquito control agencies to routinely report standardized data. We characterized the extent of current monitoring, and collated mosquito abundance between 2009-2016. Despite a minority of agencies publically reporting data, our data set consists of records on >12 million mosquitoes. We demonstrate the utility of a National Vector Surveillance System by providing novel insight into nationwide mosquito ecology and show that Digital Epidemiology could provide indirect mosquito monitoring, with Google queries for mosquito covarying with mosquito abundance. We demonstrate a National Vector Surveillance System would provide a cost effective means to combat vector borne disease emergence and can be integrated with wide-scale Digital Epidemiology.', u'/content/early/2016/12/27/096875', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Edinburgh;', u'Princeton University']]
[u'AmoA-targeted polymerase chain reaction primers for the specific detection and quantification of comammox Nitrospira in the environment', ['Petra Pjevac', 'Clemens Schauberger', 'Lianna Poghosyan', 'Craig W Herbold', 'Maartje AHJ van Kessel', 'Anne Daebeler', 'Michaela Steinberger', 'Mike SM Jetten', 'Sebastian Lucker', 'Michael Wagner', 'Holger Daims'], u'December 27, 2016.', u'Nitrification, the oxidation of ammonia via nitrite to nitrate, has always been considered to be catalyzed by the concerted activity of ammonia- and nitrite-oxidizing microorganisms. Only recently, complete ammonia oxidizers (comammox), which oxidize ammonia to nitrate on their own, were identified in the bacterial genus Nitrospira, previously known to contain only canonical nitrite oxidizers. Nitrospira are widespread in nature, but for assessments of the distribution and functional importance of comammox Nitrospira in ecosystems cultivation-independent tools to distinguish comammox from strictly nitrite-oxidizing Nitrospira are required. Here we developed new PCR primer sets that specifically target the amoA genes coding for subunit A of the distinct ammonia monooxygenase of comammox Nitrospira. While existing primers capture only a fraction of the known comammox amoA diversity, the new primer sets cover as much as 95% of the comammox amoA clade A and 92% of the clade B sequences in a reference database containing 326 comammox amoA genes with sequence information at the primer binding sites. Application of the primers to 13 samples from engineered systems (a groundwater well, drinking water treatment and wastewater treatment plants) and other habitats (rice paddy and forest soils, rice rhizosphere, brackish lake sediment and freshwater biofilm) detected comammox Nitrospira in all samples and revealed a considerable diversity of comammox in most habitats. Excellent primer specificity for comammox amoA was achieved by avoiding the use of highly degenerate primer preparations and by using equimolar mixtures of oligonucleotides that match existing comammox amoA genes. Quantitative PCR with these equimolar primer mixtures was highly sensitive and specific, and enabled the efficient quantification of clade A and clade B comammox amoA gene copy numbers in environmental samples. Thus, the new comammox amoA-targeted primers will enable more encompassing studies of nitrifying microorganisms in diverse ecosystems.', u'/content/early/2016/12/27/096891', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Vienna;', u'Radboud University']]
[u'Opportune cell culture conditions permit transfer of the neurosphere paradigm to cells of the cerebellar granule cell lineage by being permissive to sonic hedgehog signaling', ['Constantin Heil'], u'December 27, 2016.', u'The in vitro study of neural progenitors is based around the idea that defined culture conditions can emulate an environment which maintains an undifferentiated state and self-renewal capability of explanted progenitor cells, culminating in the growth of neurospheres. Neurosphere culture systems are used to study cells of physiological origin as well as transformed cells. In the case of the cerebellar granule cell lineage, neurosphere cultures have been produced from medulloblastoma tumors, while non-transformed granule progenitors are reported to be transient in vitro. SHH signaling is a key signaling pathway with roles in morphogenesis and cell proliferation in the central nervous system, in particular, involved in mitogenic signaling within the context of postnatal cerebellar granule cell expansion. In this paper, I demonstrate that in addition to commonly used mitogens such as EGF and bFGF, the SHH pathway agonist SAG, as well as genetic activation of SHH signaling by PTCH1 deletion, can lead to the growth of neurospheres from postnatal day 7 (p7) cerebellar explants. \n\nI also show that these neurosphere adhere to the cerebellar GCP lineage. Strikingly, mSS cells can be maintained indefinitely in culture, as demonstrated by extensive clonogenic capability, assayed over a period of 10 weeks. In the context of self-renewal, I assay gene expression of POU3f2, POU5f1, NANOG, and SOX2, genes associated with neural progenitors, which I find expressed in mSS cells. Importantly, mSS cultures are continuously dependent on SAG for their clonogenic potential and SHH pathway activation, assayed by expression of GLI1, PTCH1 and NMYC. In addition to the aforementioned extensive self-renewal capability, mSS neurosphere cultures also maintain the ability to differentiate. In vitro differentiation leads to formation of cells with typical granule cell morphology and which are positive for beta3-tubulin and express GABRA6. \n\nOverall, my work demonstrates that by applying culture conditions which are tailored towards biological characteristics of specific regions of the central nervous system the paradigm of the neurosphere can be expanded to include lineages not previously studied in this way. In particular, I apply this principle to unmask the property of cells from the GCP lineage as having extensive self-renewal capability in vitro.', u'/content/early/2016/12/27/096859', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'University of Rome']]
