[u'Tomographic docking suggests the mechanism of auxin receptor TIR1 selectivity', ['Veselina V. Uzunova', 'Mussa Quareshy', 'Charo del Genio', 'Richard Napier'], u'October 18, 2016.', u'We study the binding of plant hormone IAA on its receptor TIR1 introducing a novel computational method that we call tomographic docking and that accounts for interactions occurring along the depth of the binding pocket. Our results suggest that selectivity is related to constraints that potential ligands encounter on their way from the surface of the protein to their final position at the pocket bottom. Tomographic docking helps develop specific hypotheses about ligand binding, distinguishing binders from non-binders, and suggests that binding is a three-step mechanism, consisting of engagement with a niche in the back wall of the pocket, interaction with a molecular filter which allows or precludes further descent of ligands, and binding on the pocket base. Only molecules that are able to descend the pocket and bind at its base allow the co-receptor IAA7 to bind on the complex, thus behaving as active auxins. Analyzing the interactions at different depths, our new method helps in identifying critical residues that constitute preferred future study targets and in the quest for safe and effective herbicides. Also, it has the potential to extend the utility of docking from ligand searches to the study of processes contributing to selectivity.', u'/content/early/2016/10/18/081794', [], [u'University of Warwick']]
[u'Challenging the Raunkiaeran shortfall and the consequences of using imputed databases', ['Lucas Lacerda Caldas Zanini Jardim', 'Luis M. Bini', 'Jose Alexandre F. Diniz-Filho', 'Fabricio Villalobos'], u'October 18, 2016.', u'1. Given the prevalence of missing data on species\u2032 traits \u2212 Raunkiaeran shorfall \u2212 and its importance for theoretical and empirical investigations, several methods have been proposed to fill sparse databases. Despite its advantages, imputation of missing data can introduce biases. Here, we evaluate the bias in descriptive statistics, model parameters, and phylogenetic signal estimation from imputed databases under different missing and imputing scenarios.  2. We simulated coalescent phylogenies and traits under Brownian Motion and different Ornstein Uhlenbeck evolutionary models.  Missing values were created using three scenarios: missing completely at random, missing at random but phylogenetically structured and missing at random but correlated with some other variable. We considered four methods for handling missing data: delete missing values, imputation based on observed mean trait value, Phylogenetic Eigenvectors Maps and Multiple Imputation by Chained Equations. Finally, we assessed estimation errors of descriptive statistics (mean, variance), regression coefficient, Moran\u2032s correlogram and Blomberg\u2032s K of imputed traits.  3. We found that percentage of missing data, missing mechanisms, Ornstein Uhlenbeck strength and handling methods were important to define estimation errors. When data were missing completely at random, descriptive statistics were well estimated but Moran\u2032s correlogram and Blomberg\u2032s K were not well estimated, depending on handling methods. We also found that handling methods performed worse when data were missing at random, but phylogenetically structured. In this case adding phylogenetic information provided better estimates. Although the error caused by imputation was correlated with estimation errors, we found that such relationship is not linear with estimation errors getting larger as the imputation error increases.  4.\tImputed trait databases could bias ecological and evolutionary analyses. We advise researchers to share their raw data along with their imputed database, flagging imputed data and providing information on the imputation process. Thus, users can and should consider the pattern of missing data and then look for the best method to overcome this problem. In addition, we suggest the development of phylogenetic methods that consider imputation uncertainty, phylogenetic autocorrelation and preserve the level of phylogenetic signal of the original data.', u'/content/early/2016/10/18/081778', [], [u'Universidade Federal de Goi\xe1s;', u'Universidade Federal de Goi\xe1s, Instituto de Ecolog\xeda, A. C.']]
[u'Design Specifications for Cellular Regulation', ['David C. Krakauer', 'Lydia Mueller', 'Sonja J. Prohaska', 'Peter F. Stadler'], u'October 18, 2016.', u'A critical feature of all cellular processes is the ability to control the rate of gene or protein expression and metabolic flux in changing environments through regulatory feedback. We review the many ways that regulation is represented through causal, logical and dynamical components. Formalizing the nature of these components promotes effective comparison among distinct regulatory networks and provides a common framework for the potential design and\ncontrol of regulatory systems in synthetic biology.', u'/content/early/2016/10/18/081729', [], [u'Santa Fe Institute;', u'University Leipzig']]
[u'Network Dynamics Theory of Human Intelligence', ['Aki Nikolaidis', 'Aron Barbey'], u'October 18, 2016.', u'Scientific discovery and insight into the biological foundations of human intelligence have advanced considerably with progress in neuroimaging. Neuroimaging methods allow for not only an exploration of what biological characteristics underlie intelligence and creativity, but also a detailed assessment of how these biological characteristics emerge through child and adolescent development. In the past 10 years, functional connectivity, a metric of coherence in activation across brain regions, has been used extensively to probe cognitive function; however more recently neuroscientists have begun to investigate the dynamics of these functional connectivity patterns, revealing important insight into these networks as a result. In the present article, we expand current theories on the neural basis of human intelligence by developing a framework that integrates both how short-term dynamic fluctuations in brain networks and longterm development of brain networks over time contribute to intelligence and creativity. Applying this framework, we propose testable hypotheses regarding the neural and developmental correlates of intelligence. We review important topics in both network neuroscience and developmental neuroscience, and we consolidate these insights into a Network Dynamics Theory of human intelligence.', u'/content/early/2016/10/18/081695', [], [u'Child Mind Institute;', u'University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign']]
[u"Inferring the brain's internal model from sensory responses in a probabilistic inference framework", ['Richard D Lange', 'Ralf M Haefner'], u'October 18, 2016.', u"During perception, the brain combines information received from its senses with prior information about the outside world. The mathematical concept of probabilistic inference has previously been suggested as a framework for understanding both perception and cognition. Whether this framework can explain not only behavior but also the underlying neural computations has been an open question. We propose that sensory neurons' activity represents a central quantity of Bayesian computations: posterior beliefs about the outside world. As a result, sensory responses, just like the beliefs themselves, should depend both on sensory inputs and on prior information represented in other parts of the brain. We show that this dependence on internal variables induces variability in sensory responses that -- in the context of a psychophysical task -- is related both to the structure of that task and to the neurons' stimulus tuning. We derive analytical predictions for the correlation between different neurons' responses, and for their correlation with behavior. Furthermore, we show that key neurophysiological observations from much studied perceptual discrimination and detection experiments agree with those predictions. Our work thereby provides a normative explanation for those observations, requiring a reinterpretation of the role of correlated variability for sensory coding. Finally, the fact that sensory responses (which we observe) are a product both of external inputs (which we control) and of internal beliefs, allows us to reverse-engineer information about the subject's internal beliefs by observing sensory neurons' responses alone. Population recordings of sensory neurons in animals performing a task can therefore be used to track changes in the internal beliefs with learning and attention.", u'/content/early/2016/10/18/081661', [], [u'University of Rochester']]
[u'Functional determinants of protein assembly into homomeric complexes', ['Therese Bergendahl', 'Joseph A Marsh'], u'October 18, 2016.', u'Approximately half of proteins with experimentally determined structures interact with other copies of themselves and assemble into homomeric complexes. A number of functional benefits to homomerization have been proposed, and it is often taken for granted that it has been selected for evolutionarily. However, there has been little systematic analysis of the relationship between homomer structure and function. Here, utilizing the large numbers of structures and functional annotations now available, we have investigated how proteins that assemble into different types of homomers are associated with different biological functions. We observe that homomers from different symmetry groups are significantly enriched in distinct functions, and we can often provide simple physical and geometrical explanations for these associations in regards to substrate recognition or physical environment. One of the strongest associations is in dihedral complexes and we suggest that much of this can be related to allosteric regulation. We provide a physical explanation for why allostery is related to dihedral complexes: it allows for efficient propagation of conformational changes across isologous (i.e. symmetric) interfaces. Overall we demonstrate clear relationships between protein function and homomer symmetry that have important implications for understanding protein evolution, as well as for predicting protein function and quaternary structure.', u'/content/early/2016/10/18/081745', [], [u'University of Edinburgh']]
[u'SWALO: scaffolding with assembly likelihood optimization', ['Atif Rahman', 'Lior Pachter'], u'October 18, 2016.', u'Scaffolding i.e. ordering and orienting contigs is an important step in genome assembly. We present a method for scaffolding based on likelihoods of genome assemblies. Generative models for sequencing are used to obtain maximum likelihood estimates of gaps between contigs and to estimate whether linking contigs into scaffolds would lead to an increase in the likelihood of the assembly. We then link contigs if they can be unambiguously joined or if the corresponding increase in likelihood is substantially greater than that of other possible joins of those contigs.   \nThe method is implemented in a tool called SWALO with approximations to make it efficient and applicable to large datasets. Analysis on real and simulated datasets reveals that it consistently makes more or similar number of correct joins as other scaffolders while linking very few contigs incorrectly, thus outperforming other scaffolders and demonstrating that substantial improvement in genome assembly may be achieved through the use of statistical models.\nSWALO is freely available for download at\nhttps://atifrahman.github.io/SWALO/.', u'/content/early/2016/10/18/081786', [], [u'University of California, Berkeley;', u'U.C. Berkeley']]
[u'Improving power for rare variant tests by integrating external controls', ['Seunggeun Lee', 'Sehee Kim', 'Christian Fuchsberger'], u'October 18, 2016.', u'Due to the drop in sequencing cost, the number of sequenced genomes is increasing rapidly. To improve power of rare variant tests, these sequenced samples could be used as external control samples in addition to control samples from the study itself. However, when using external controls, possible batch effects due to the use of different sequencing platforms or genotype calling pipelines can dramatically increase type I error rates. To address this, we propose novel summary statistics-based single and gene- or region-based rare-variant tests that allow the integration of external controls while controlling for type I error. Our approach is based on the insight that batch effects on a given variant can be assessed by comparing odds ratio estimates using internal controls only vs. using combined control samples of internal and external controls. From simulation experiments and the analysis of data from age related macular degeneration and type 2 diabetes studies, we demonstrate that our method can substantially improve power while controlling for type I error rate.', u'/content/early/2016/10/18/081711', [], [u'University of Michigan']]
[u'Extinction rate has a complex and non-linear relationship with area', ['Petr Keil', 'Juliano S Cabral', 'Jonathan Chase', 'Ines S Martins', 'Felix May', 'Henrique M Pereira', 'Marten Winter'], u'October 18, 2016.', u'AIM. Biodiversity loss, measured as count of extinction events, is a key component of biodiversity change, and can significantly impact ecosystem services. However, estimation of the loss has focused mostly on per-species extinction rates measured over limited numbers of spatial scales, with no theory linking small-scale extirpations with global extinctions. Here we provide such link by introducing the relationship between area and per-species probability of extinction (PxAR) and between area and count of realized extinction events in that area (NxAR). We show theoretical and empirical forms of these relationships, and we discuss their role in perception and estimation of the current extinction crisis.  LOCATION. USA, Europe, Czech Republic, Barro Colorado Island   METHODS. We derived the expected forms of PxAR and NxAR from a range of theoretical frameworks based on theory of island biogeography, neutral models, and species-area relationships. We constructed PxAR and NxAR in five empirical datasets on butterflies, plants, trees and birds, collected over range of spatial scales.  RESULTS. Both the theoretical arguments and empirical data support monotonically decreasing PxAR, i.e. per-species extinction probability decreasing with increasing area; however, we also report a rare theoretical possibility of locally increasing PxAR. In contrast, both theory and data revealed complex NxAR, i.e. counts of extinction events follow variety of relationships with area, including nonlinear unimodal, multimodal and U-shaped relationships, depending on region and taxon.  MAIN CONCLUSIONS. The uncovered wealth of forms of NxAR can explain why biodiversity change (the net outcome of losses and gains) also appears scale-dependent. Furthermore, the complex scale dependence of PxAR and NxAR means that global extinctions indicate little about local extirpations, and vice versa. Hence, effort should be made to understand and report extinction crisis as a scale-dependent problem. In this effort, estimation of scaling relationships such as PxAR and NxAR should be central.', u'/content/early/2016/10/18/081489', [], [u'German Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Research (iDiv), Halle-Jena-Leipzig;', u'Ecosystem Modeling, Center for Computational and Theoretical Biology (CCTB), University of Wuerzburg']]
[u'The large terminase DNA packaging motor grips DNA with its ATPase domain for cleavage by the flexible nuclease domain', ['Brendan J. Hilbert', 'Janelle A. Hayes', 'Nicholas P. Stone', 'Rui-Gang Xu', 'Brian A. Kelch'], u'October 17, 2016.', u'Many viruses use a powerful terminase motor to pump their genome inside an empty procapsid shell during virus maturation. The large terminase (TerL) protein contains both enzymatic activities necessary for packaging in such viruses: the ATPase that powers DNA translocation and an endonuclease that cleaves the concatemeric genome both at initiation and completion of genome packaging. However, how TerL binds DNA during translocation and cleavage is still mysterious. Here we investigate DNA binding and cleavage using TerL from the thermophilic phage P74-26. We report the structure of the P74-26 TerL nuclease domain, which allows us to model DNA binding in the nuclease active site. We screened a large panel of TerL variants for defects in binding and DNA cleavage, revealing that the ATPase domain is the primary site for DNA binding, and is required for nucleolysis. The nuclease domain is dispensable for DNA binding but residues lining the active site guide DNA for cleavage. Kinetic analysis of nucleolysis suggests flexible tethering of the nuclease domains during DNA cleavage. We propose that interactions with the procapsid shell during DNA translocation conformationally restrict the nuclease domain, inhibiting cleavage; TerL release from the procapsid upon completion of packaging unlocks the nuclease domains to cleave DNA.', u'/content/early/2016/10/17/080440', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'University of Massachusetts Medical School;', u'University of York']]
