[u'Developmental Transcriptional Model describing regulated genes, QTLs and pathways during the primary and secondary cell walls of Pima fibers', ['Magdy Alabady', 'Bulak Arpat'], u'June 2, 2016.', u'Gossypium barbadense L. (Egyptian and Pima) produces single celled fiber trichomes that are the longest and richest in cellulosic contents in the plant kingdom. Developmental dissection of fiber at the transcriptional level is crucial to unveiling the genetic mechanisms underpinning fiber morphogenesis. We profiled the transcriptome of developing Pima fibers, as well as genes associated with consensus fiber quality QTLs, at seven developmental time points covering both primary (PCW) and secondary (SCW) cell wall stages. A total of 2,934 genes were differentially expressed at only one (45.19%) or at multiple (54.81%) developmental time points. Based on the coincidence between gene expression dynamics and the time frame of fiber developmental stages, five stage-specific expression profiles were identified. As a link between fiber QTLs and gene expression, 5 potential developmentally regulated QTLs (drQTLs) corresponding to different fiber developmental stages were identified. Genes in the ubiquitin proteolytic pathway, particularly QTL associated genes, appeared to be involved in regulating the transition stage between PCW and SCW; a stage that is crucial to both fiber length and strength in the extra-long staple cotton genotypes. In this respect, Yeast-two-hybrids identified interactions between UBC9 and genes involved in cell and organ elongation, polar cell expansion, microtubule cytoskeleton dynamics and organization, and basic amino acids transportation during the SCW/SCW transition. Altogether, these results were deployed in a proposed model linking fiber developmental stages with the Pima fiber traits.', u'/content/early/2016/06/02/056127.1', [], [u'University of Georgia;', u'Department of Plant Molecular Biology,  University of Lausanne Biophore - Switzerland']]
[u'Epigenetic activation of the prostaglandin receptor EP4 promotes resistance to endocrine therapy for breast cancer', ['Jeff F Hiken', 'James I McDonald', 'Keith F Decker', 'Cesar Sanchez', 'Jeremy Hoog', 'Nathan D VanderKraats', 'Kyle L Jung', 'Margaret Akinhanmi', 'Matthew J Ellis', 'John R Edwards'], u'June 2, 2016.', u'Approximately 75% of breast cancers express estrogen receptor \u03b1 (ER\u03b1) and depend on estrogen signals for continued growth. Aromatase inhibitors (AIs) prevent estrogen production and inhibit estrogen receptor signaling, resulting in decreased cancer recurrence and mortality. Advanced tumors treated with AIs almost always develop resistance to these drugs via the up-regulation of alternative growth signals. The mechanisms that drive this resistance--especially epigenetic events that alter gene expression--are however not well understood. Genome-wide DNA methylation and expression analysis of cell line models of acquired aromatase inhibitor resistance indicated that prostaglandin E2 receptor 4 (PTGER4) is up-regulated after demethylation in resistant cells. Knockdown and inhibitor studies demonstrate that PTGER4 is essential for estrogen independent growth.  Analysis of downstream signaling indicates that PTGER4 likely promotes AI resistance via ligand independent activation of the ER\u03b1-cofactor CARM1. We believe that we have discovered a novel epigenetic mechanism for altering cell signaling and acquiring endocrine therapy resistance. Our findings indicate that PTGER4 is a potential drug target in AI resistant cancers. Additionally, the epigenetic component of PTGER4 regulation suggests that further study of PTGER4 may yield valuable insights into how DNA methylation-targeted diagnoses and treatments can improve AI resistant breast cancer treatment.', u'/content/early/2016/06/02/056770', [], [u'Department of Medicine, Center for Pharmacogenomics, Washington University School of Medicine, St. L;', u'Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile, Santiago, Chile;', u'Division of Oncology, Department of Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, M;', u'Lester and Sue Smith Breast Center, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas, USA;', u'Washington University in Saint Louis']]
[u'Niche-Driven Stem Cell Plasticity and its Role in Cancer Progression', ['Noemi Picco', 'Robert Gatenby', 'Alexander Anderson'], u'June 2, 2016.', u'Objective: Cancer stem cells (CSCs) have been hypothesized to initiate and drive tumor growth and recurrence due to their self-renewal ability. If correct, this hypothesis implies that successful therapy must focus primarily on eradication of this CSC fraction. However, recent evidence suggests stemness is niche dependent and may represent one of many phenotypic states that can be accessed with the reaction norm of highly plastic cancer cells. A better understanding of the relationship of stemness to niche-related phenotypic plasticity could lead to alternative treatment strategies. Methods: Here we investigate the role of environmental context in the expression of stem-like cell properties through in-silico simulation of ductal carcinoma. We develop a two-dimensional hybrid discrete-continuum cellular automata model to describe the single cell scale dynamics of multi-cellular tissue formation. Through a suite of simulations we investigate interactions between a phenotypically heterogeneous cancer cell population and a dynamic environment. Results: We generate homeostatic ductal structures that consist of a mixture of stem and differentiated cells governed by both intracellular and environmental dynamics. We demonstrate that a wide spectrum of tumor-like histologies can result from these structures by varying microenvironmental parameters. Conclusion: Niche driven phenotypic plasticity offers a simple first-principle explanation for the diverse ductal structures observed in histological sections from breast cancer. Significance: Conventional models of carcinogenesis largely focus on mutational events. We demonstrate that variations in the environmental niche can produce intraductal cancers independent of genetic changes in the resident cells. Therapies targeting the microenvironmental niche, may offer an alternative cancer prevention strategy.', u'/content/early/2016/06/02/056762', [], [u'H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center']]
[u'High-throughput Screening and CRISPR-Cas9 Modeling of Causal Lipid-associated Expression Quantitative Trait Locus Variants', ['Avanthi Raghavan', 'Xiao Wang', 'Peter Rogov', 'Li Wang', 'Xiaolan Zhang', 'Tarjei S Mikkelsen', 'Kiran Musunuru'], u'June 2, 2016.', u'Genome-wide association studies have identified a number of novel genetic loci linked to serum cholesterol and triglyceride levels. The causal DNA variants at these loci and the mechanisms by which they influence phenotype and disease risk remain largely unexplored. Expression quantitative trait locus analyses of patient liver and fat biopsies indicate that many lipid-associated variants influence gene expression in a cis-regulatory manner. However, linkage disequilibrium among neighboring SNPs at a genome-wide association study-implicated locus makes it challenging to pinpoint the actual variant underlying an association signal. We used a methodological framework for causal variant discovery that involves high-throughput identification of putative disease-causal loci through a functional reporter-based screen, the massively parallel reporter assay, followed by validation of prioritized variants in genome-edited human pluripotent stem cell models generated with CRISPR-Cas9. We complemented the stem cell models with CRISPR interference experiments in vitro and in knock-in mice in vivo. We provide validation for two high-priority SNPs, rs2277862 and rs10889356, being causal for lipid-associated expression quantitative trait loci. We also highlight the challenges inherent in modeling common genetic variation with these experimental approaches.', u'/content/early/2016/06/02/056820', [], [u'Harvard Medical School;', u'University of Pennsylvania;', u'Broad Institute']]
[u'Differential modulation of the cellular and humoral immune responses in Drosophila is mediated by the endosomal ARF1-Asrij axis', ['Rohan J Khadilkar', 'Chetan D.R', 'Arghyashree RoyChowdhury', 'Srivathsa S Magadi', 'Vani Kulkarni', 'Maneesha S Inamdar'], u'June 2, 2016.', u'How multicellular organisms maintain immune homeostasis across various organs and cell types is an outstanding question in immune biology and cell signaling. In Drosophila, blood cells (hemocytes) respond to local and systemic cues to mount an immune response. While endosomal regulation of Drosophila hematopoiesis is reported, the role of endosomal proteins in cellular and humoral immunity is not well-studied. Here we demonstrate a functional role for endosomal proteins in immune homeostasis. We show that the ubiquitous trafficking protein ADP Ribosylation Factor 1 (ARF1) and the hemocyte-specific endosomal regulator Asrij differentially regulate humoral immunity. ARF1 and Asrij mutants show reduced survival and lifespan upon infection, indicating perturbed immune homeostasis. The ARF1-Asrij axis suppresses the Toll pathway anti-microbial peptides (AMPs) by regulating ubiquitination of the inhibitor Cactus. The Imd pathway is inversely regulated- while ARF1 suppresses AMPs, Asrij is essential for AMP production. Several immune mutants have reduced Asrij expression, suggesting that Asrij co-ordinates with these pathways to regulate the immune response. Our study highlights the role of endosomal proteins in modulating the immune response by maintaining the balance of AMP production. Similar mechanisms can now be tested in mammalian hematopoiesis and immunity.', u'/content/early/2016/06/02/056796', [], [u'MBGU, Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research, Bangalore, India;', u'Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research']]
[u'Contact, travel, and transmission: The impact of winter holidays on influenza dynamics in the United States', ['Anne Ewing', 'Elizabeth C Lee', 'Shweta Bansal'], u'June 2, 2016.', u'Background: The seasonality of influenza is thought to vary depending on changes in environmental factors, human contact, and travel patterns. During winter holidays, when children are out of school, typical patterns of potential disease-causing contact and travel change. The aim of this research is to understand the impact of winter school holidays on age-specific and spatial flu transmission, and the resulting size and spread of the epidemic. We hypothesize that reduced contacts among children during school holidays will lower their infection rates, infection rates among adults will subsequently decrease as fewer children are sick, and increased travel during the holidays will hasten the spread of flu across the country.\n\nMethods: Using aggregated medical claims data from physician offices and hospitals in the United States, we examined influenza dynamics before, during, and after the winter holidays from 2001 to 2009. We quantified the changes to transmission and characterized holiday-associated changes to epidemic trajectories among children and adults in a spatial context. Informed by this empirical evidence, we used a deterministic, age-specific spatial metapopulation model to compare models with and without holiday-associated behavioral changes to understand the effects of holidays on flu season trajectories and spatial spread.\n\nResults: In analyzing eight seasons of medical claims data, we observed a mean 15% drop in the effective reproductive number immediately after Christmas. Rates of influenza-like illness among children experienced a sharp dip and recovery during and after the holidays, while adults experienced more gradual dips and recoveries during these periods. The model results demonstrated that both child and adult flu incidence dipped during the holiday period, but trends among adults lagged those in children. The peaks of the child and adult flu epidemics were delayed when the holiday was introduced, but the attack rate did not change significantly for either age group. In the medical claims data and the model-generated data with the holiday, the spatial synchrony of epidemic trajectories before and after the holiday remained similar. In the model-generated data without the holiday, however, epidemic trajectories became spatially asynchronous.\n\nConclusions: Our work suggests that winter holidays delay the epidemic peaks and increase the spatial synchrony of natural trajectories for seasonal influenza in the United States every year. These findings have implications for the design of influenza intervention strategies, such as the proper timing and duration of school closures, and the spatial and demographic reallocation of vaccines.', u'/content/early/2016/06/02/055871', [], [u'Georgetown University']]
[u'The human thalamus is an integrative hub for functional brain networks', ['Kai Hwang', 'Maxwell A. Bertolero', 'William Liu', "Mark D'Esposito"], u'June 2, 2016.', u'The thalamus is globally connected with distributed cortical regions, yet the functional significance of this extensive thalamocortical connectivity remains largely unknown. By performing graph-theoretic analyses on thalamocortical functional connectivity data collected from human participants, we found that the human thalamus displays network properties capable of integrating multimodal information across diverse cortical functional networks. From a meta-analysis of a large dataset of functional brain imaging experiments, we further found that the thalamus is involved in multiple cognitive functions. Finally, we found that focal thalamic lesions in humans have widespread distal effects, disrupting the modular organization of cortical functional networks. This converging evidence suggests that the human thalamus is a critical hub region that could integrate heteromodal information and maintain the modular structure of cortical functional networks.', u'/content/early/2016/06/02/056630', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of California Berkeley']]
[u'PRDM9 forms a multiprotein complex tethering recombination hotspots to the chromosomal axis', ['Emil D Parvanov', 'Hui Tian', 'Timothy Billings', 'Ruth L Saxl', 'Rakesh Aithal', 'Lumir Krejci', 'Petko M Petkov'], u'June 2, 2016.', u'In mammals, meiotic recombination occurs at 1-2 kb genomic regions termed hotspots, whose positions and activities are determined by PRDM9, a DNA-binding histone methyltransferase. We now show that the KRAB domain of PRDM9 binds additional proteins into complexes that bring hotspots into the next phase of recombination. By a combination of yeast-two hybrid assay, in vitro binding, and co-immunoprecipitation from mouse spermatocytes, we identified four proteins that directly interact with PRDM9 KRAB domain, CXXC1, EWSR1, EHMT2, and CDYL. These proteins are co-expressed in spermatocytes at the early stages of meiotic prophase I to which PRDM9 expression is restricted. We also detected association of PRDM9-bound complexes with the meiotic cohesin REC8 and the synaptonemal complex proteins SYCP3 and SYCP1. Our results suggest a model in which PRDM9-bound hotspot DNA is brought to the chromosomal axis by the action of these proteins, which also ensure proper chromatin and spatial environment for the subsequent recombination events. Double-strand breaks are initiated on the chromosomal axis; homology search and their subsequent repair are restricted to the synaptonemal complex space.', u'/content/early/2016/06/02/056713', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'The Jackson Laboratory;', u'Masaryk University']]
[u'Functional connectivity in neuromuscular system underlying bimanual muscle synergies', ['Ingmar E. J. de Vries', 'Andreas Daffertshofer', 'Dick F. Stegeman', 'Tjeerd W. Boonstra'], u'June 2, 2016.', u'Neural synchrony has been suggested as mechanism for integrating distributed sensorimotor systems involved in coordinated movement. To test the role of corticomuscular and intermuscular coherence in the formation of bimanual muscle synergies, we experimentally manipulated the degree of coordination between hand muscles by varying the sensitivity of the visual feedback to differences in bilateral force. In 16 healthy participants, cortical activity was measured using 64-channel electroencephalography (EEG) and muscle activity of the flexor pollicis brevis muscle of both hands using 8x8-channel high-density electromyography (HDsEMG). Using the uncontrolled manifold framework, coordination between bilateral forces was quantified by the synergy index RV in the time and frequency domain. Functional connectivity was assed using corticomuscular coherence between muscle activity and cortical source activity and intermuscular coherence between bilateral EMG activity. As expected, bimanual synergies were stronger in the high coordination condition. RV was higher in the high coordination condition in frequencies between 0 and 0.5 Hz, and above 2 Hz. For the 0.5-2 Hz frequency band this pattern was inverted. Corticomuscular coherence in the beta band (16-30 Hz) was maximal in the contralateral motor cortex and was reduced in the high coordination condition. In contrast, intermuscular coherence was observed at 5-12 Hz and increased with bimanual coordination. Within-subject comparisons revealed a negative correlation between RV and corticomuscular coherence and a positive correlation between RV and intermuscular coherence. Our findings suggest two distinct neural pathways: (1) Corticomuscular coherence reflects direct corticospinal projections involved in controlling individual muscles;  (2) intermuscular coherence reflects diverging pathways involved in the coordination of multiple muscles.', u'/content/early/2016/06/02/056671', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'VU University Amsterdam;', u'Radboud University Nijmegen;', u'University of New South Wales']]
[u'Fast and Robust Segmentation of Copy Number Profiles Using Multi-Scale Edge Detection', ['Ivo W Kwee', 'Andrea Rinaldi', 'Cassio Polpo de Campos', 'Francesco Bertoni'], u'June 2, 2016.', u'Raw copy number data is highly dimensional, noisy and can suffer from so-called genomic wave artifacts. We introduce a novel method based on multi-scale edge detection in derivative space. By using derivatives, the algorithm was very fast and robust against genomic waves. Our method compared very well to existing state-of-the-art segmentation methods and importantly outperformed these if noise and wave artifacts were well present.', u'/content/early/2016/06/02/056705', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Institute of Oncology Research;', u'Dalle Molle Institute for Artificial Intelligence']]
[u'Cryptic functional variation in the human gut microbiome', ['Patrick H Bradley', 'Katherine S Pollard'], u'June 2, 2016.', u'Background: The human gut microbiome harbors microbes that perform diverse biochemical functions. Previous work suggested that functional variation between gut microbiota is small relative to taxonomic variation. However, these conclusions were largely based on broad pathways and qualitative patterns. Identifying microbial genes with highly variable or invariable abundance across hosts requires a new statistical test.\n\nResults: We develop a model for microbiome gene abundance that allows for differences in means between studies and accounts for the mean-variance relationship in shotgun data. Applying a test based on this model to stool metagenomes from three populations of healthy adults, we discover many significantly variable genes, including components of central carbon metabolism and other pathways comprised primarily of more stable genes. By integrating taxonomic profiles into our test for gene variability, we reveal that Proteobacteria are a major source of variable genes. Stable genes tend to have broad phylogenetic distributions, but several two-component signaling pathways and carbohydrate utilization gene families have relatively constant levels across hosts despite being taxonomically restricted.\n\nConclusions: Gene-level tests shed light on adaptation to the gut environment, and highlight microbially-encoded functions that may respond to or cause variability in host traits.', u'/content/early/2016/06/02/056614', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Gladstone Institutes and UCSF']]
[u'Overlap of movement planning and movement execution reduces reaction time by up to 100ms.', ['Jean-Jacques Orban de Xivry', 'Valery Legrain', 'Philippe Lefevre'], u'June 2, 2016.', u'Motor planning is the process of preparing the appropriate motor commands in order to achieve a goal. This process has been largely considered as occurring before movement onset and has been traditionally associated with reaction time. However, in a virtual line bisection task, we observed an overlap between movement planning and execution.\nIn this task performed with a robotic manipulandum, we observed that the participants (N=30) made straight movements when the line was in front of them (near target) but made often curved movements towards a farther target that was located sideways in such a way that they crossed the line perpendicular to it. Unexpectedly, movements to the far targets had shorter reaction times than movements to the near target (mean difference: 32ms, SE: 5ms, max: 104ms). In addition, the curvature of the movement modulated reaction time. A larger increase in movement curvature from the near to the far target was associated with a larger reduction in reaction time. These highly curved movements started with a transport phase during which accuracy demands was not taken into account.\nWe concluded that accuracy demand imposes a reaction time penalty if it is processed before movement onset. This penalty is reduced if the start of the movement can consist of a transport phase and if the movement plan can be refined in function of accuracy demands later in the movement, hence demonstrating an overlap between movement planning and execution.', u'/content/early/2016/06/02/039842', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'KU Leuven;', u'Universite catholique de Louvain']]
[u"Assessing sex-specific selection against deleterious alleles: males don't pay for sex.", ['Zofia M Prokop', 'Monika A Prus', 'Tomasz S Gaczorek', 'Karolina Markot', 'Joanna K Palka', 'Magdalena Mendrok'], u'June 2, 2016.', u'Selection acting on males can reduce mutation load \nof sexual relative to asexual populations, thus mitigating the two-fold cost of sex. This requires that it seeks and destroys the same mutations as selection acting on females, but with higher efficiency, which could happen due to sexual selection - a potent evolutionary force that in most systems predominantly affects males. We used replicate populations of red flour beetles (Tribolium castaneum) to study sex-specific selection against deleterious mutations introduced with ionizing radiation. Aditionally, we employed a novel approach to quantify the relative contribution of sexual selection to the overall selection observed in males. The induced mutations were selected against in both sexes, with decreased sexual competitiveness contributing, on average, over 40% of the total decline in male fitness. However, we found no evidence for selection being stronger in males than in females; in fact, we observed a non-significant trend in the opposite direction. These results suggest that selection on males does not reduce mutation load below the level expected under the (hypothetical) scenario of asexual reproduction. Thus, we found no support for the hypothesis that sexual selection contributes to the evolutionary maintenance of sex.', u'/content/early/2016/06/02/056663', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Institute of Environmental Sciences, Jagiellonian University']]
[u'Maternal Genetic Ancestry and Legacy of 10th Century AD Hungarians', ['Aranka Csosz', 'Anna Szecsenyi-Nagy', 'Veronika Csakyova', 'Peter Lango', 'Viktoria Bodis', 'Kitti Kohler', 'Gyongyver Tomory', 'Melinda Nagy', 'Balazs Gusztav Mende'], u'June 2, 2016.', u"The ancient Hungarians originated from the Ural region in today's central Russia and migrated across the Eastern European steppe, according to historical sources. The Hungarians conquered the Carpathian Basin 895-907 AD, and admixed with the indigenous communities.\n Here we present mitochondrial DNA results from three datasets: one from the Avar period (7-9th centuries) of the Carpathian Basin (n = 31); an almost four-fold enlarged dataset from the Hungarian conquest-period (n=101); and one from the contemporaneous Hungarian-Slavic contact zone (n = 23). We compare these mitochondrial DNA hypervariable segment sequences and haplogroup results with other ancient and modern Eurasian data. Whereas the analyzed Avars represents a certain group of the Avar society that shows East and South European genetic characteristics, the Hungarian conquerors' maternal gene pool is a mixture of West Eurasian and Central and North Eurasian elements. Comprehensively analyzing the results, both the linguistically recorded Finno-Ugric roots and historically documented Turkic and Central Asian influxes had possible genetic imprints in the conquerors' genetic composition. Our data allows a complex series of historic and population genetic events before the formation of the medieval population of the Carpathian Basin, and the maternal genetic continuity between 10-12th centuries and modern Hungarians.", u'/content/early/2016/06/02/056655', [u'Genetics'], [u'Institute of Archaeology, Research Centre for the Humanities, Hungarian Academy of Sciences;', u'Constantine the Philosopher University;', u'J. Selye University in Komarno']]
[u'Antagonistic roles of Polycomb repression and Notch signaling in the maintenance of somatic cell fate in C. elegans.', ['Ringo Pueschel', 'Francesca Coraggio', 'Alisha Marti', 'Peter Meister'], u'June 2, 2016.', u'Reprogramming of somatic cells in intact nematodes allows characterization of cell plasticity determinants, which knowledge is crucial for regenerative cell therapies. By inducing muscle or endoderm transdifferentiation by the ectopic expression of selector transcription factors, we show that cell fate is remarkably robust in fully differentiated larvae. This stability depends on the presence of the Polycomb-associated histone H3K27 methylation, but not H3K9 methylation: in the absence of this epigenetic mark, many cells can be transdifferentiated which correlates with definitive developmental arrest. A candidate RNAi screen unexpectedly uncovered that knock-down of somatic NotchLIN-12 signaling rescues this larval arrest. Similarly in a wild-type context, genetically increasing NotchLIN-12 signaling renders a fraction of the animals sensitive to induced transdifferentiation. This reveals an antagonistic role of the Polycomb repressive complex 2 stabilizing cell fate and Notch signaling enhancing cell plasticity.', u'/content/early/2016/06/02/055137', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'Institute of Cell Biology, University of Bern;', u'Institute of Cell Biology University of Bern']]
[u'Repeated range expansion and niche shift in a volcanic hotspot archipelago: radiation of Hawaiian Euphorbia (Euphorbiaceae)', ['Ya Yang', 'Clifford Morden', 'Margaret Sporck-Koehler', 'Lawren Sack', 'Paul Berry'], u'June 2, 2016.', u'Aim The taxon cycle hypothesis describes the cyclic movement of taxa during range expansion and contraction, accompanied by an evolutionary shift from open and often coastal vegetation to closed, and often inland forest vegetation in island systems. The Hawaiian Archipelago is an ideal system to test this hypothesis given the linear fashion of island formation and a relatively well-understood geological history.\nLocation Hawaiian Islands.\nMethods We sampled 153 individuals in 15 of the 16 native species of Hawaiian Euphorbia section Anisophyllum on six major Hawaiian Islands, plus 11 New World close relatives, to elucidate the biogeographic movement of this lineage along the Hawaiian island chain. We used a concatenated chloroplast DNA data set of more than eight kilobases in aligned length and applied maximum likelihood and Bayesian inference for phylogenetic reconstruction. Connectivity among islands and habitat types was estimated using BayesTraits. Age and phylogeographic patterns were co-estimated using BEAST. In addition, we used nuclear ribosomal ITS and the low-copy genes LEAFY and G3pdhC to investigate the reticulate relationships within this radiation.\nResults We estimate that Hawaiian Euphorbia first arrived on Kauai or Niihau ca. 5 million years ago and subsequently diverged into 16 species on all major Hawaiian Islands. During this process Euphorbia dispersed from older to younger islands in a stepping-stone fashion through open, dispersal-prone habitats. Taxa that occupy closed vegetation on Kauai and Oahu evolved in situ from open vegetation taxa of the same island. Consequently, widespread species tend to occupy habitats with open vegetation, whereas single island endemic species predominantly occur in habitats with closed canopy and are only found on the two oldest islands of Kauai and Oahu.\nMain conclusions The spatial and temporal patterns of dispersal and range shifts in Hawaiian Euphorbia support an intra-volcanic-archipelago version of the taxon cycle hypothesis.', u'/content/early/2016/06/02/056580', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Michigan;', u'University of Hawaii;', u'Division of Forestry & Wildlife, Hawaii;', u'UCLA']]
[u'Statistical inference of protein structural alignments using information and compression', ['James H Collier', 'Lloyd Allison', 'Arthur M Lesk', 'Peter J Stuckey', 'Maria Garcia de la Banda', 'Arun S Konagurthu'], u'June 2, 2016.', u"Structural molecular biology depends crucially on computational techniques that compare protein three-dimensional structures and generate structural alignments (the assignment of one-to-one correspondences between subsets of amino acids based on atomic coordinates.) Despite its importance, the structural alignment problem has not been formulated, much less solved, in a consistent and reliable way. To overcome these difficulties, we present here a framework for precise inference of structural alignments, built on the Bayesian and information-theoretic principle of Minimum Message Length (MML). The quality of any alignment is measured by its explanatory power -- the amount of lossless compression achieved to explain the protein coordinates using that alignment. We have implemented this approach in the program MMLigner (http://lcb.infotech.monash.edu.au/mmligner) to distinguish statistically significant alignments, not available elsewhere. We also demonstrate the reliability of MMLigner's alignment results compared with the state of the art. Importantly, MMLigner can also discover different structural alignments of comparable quality, a challenging problem for oligomers and protein complexes.", u'/content/early/2016/06/02/056598', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Monash University;', u'Pennsylvania State University;', u'University of Melbourne']]
