[u'Meta-analysis reveals taxon- and life stage-dependent effects of ocean acidification on marine calcifier feeding performance', ['Jeff C Clements'], u'July 26, 2016.', u'While ocean acidification is considered among the greatest threats to marine ecosystems, its effects on the feeding performance of marine calcifiers remain uncertain. I conducted a meta-analysis of effect sizes (LnRR) assessing the impacts of acidification on the feeding ability of three groups of marine calcifiers - molluscs, arthropods, and echinoderms. Results suggested taxon-dependent effects of acidification on calcifier feeding performance, with depressed feeding observed for molluscs, echinoderms, and when all taxa were considered. However, ocean acidification had no effect on feeding performance in marine arthropods and larval feeding performance appeared more vulnerable than that of juveniles and adults. Feeding performance was not related to acclimation time nor pCO2 level. This study suggests that the feeding performance of molluscs and early life-stage echinoderms may be depressed in a more acidic ocean, but that arthropod feeding performance is unlikely to suffer. Such changes in feeding performance could contribute to slower growth and development in the early life stages of these organisms and could potentially contribute to changes in community and ecosystem structure where these organisms coexist.  Finally, feeding performance could, at least in part, moderate the degree to which molluscs and echinoderms can use food to overcome acidification effects early in life.', u'/content/early/2016/07/26/066076', [], [u'University of New Brunswick']]
[u'Massively parallel digital transcriptional profiling of single cells', ['Grace X.Y. Zheng', 'Jessica M Terry', 'Phillip Belgrader', 'Paul Ryvkin', 'Zachary W. Bent', 'Ryan Wilson', 'Solongo B. Ziraldo', 'Tobias D. Wheeler', 'Geoff P. McDermott', 'Junjie Zhu', 'Mark T. Gregory', 'Joe Shuga', 'Luz Montesclaros', 'Donald A Masquelier', 'Stefanie Y. Nishimura', 'Michael Schnall-Levin', 'Paul W Wyatt', 'Christopher M. Hindson', 'Rajiv Bharadwaj', 'Alexander Wong', 'Kevin D. Ness', 'Lan W. Beppu', 'Joachim Deeg', 'Christopher McFarland', 'Keith R. Loeb', 'William J. Valente', 'Nolan G. Ericson', 'Emily A. Stevens', 'Jerald P. Radich', 'Tarjei S. Mikkelsen', 'Benjamin J. Hindson', 'Jason H Bielas'], u'July 26, 2016.', u'Characterizing the transcriptome of individual cells is fundamental to understanding complex biological systems. We describe a droplet-based system that enables 3\u2032 mRNA counting of up to tens of thousands of single cells per sample. Cell encapsulation in droplets takes place in ~6 minutes, with ~50% cell capture efficiency, up to 8 samples at a time. The speed and efficiency allow the processing of precious samples while minimizing stress to cells. To demonstrate the system\u2032s technical performance and its applications, we collected transcriptome data from ~\xbc million single cells across 29 samples. First, we validate the sensitivity of the system and its ability to detect rare populations using cell lines and synthetic RNAs. Then, we profile 68k peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) to demonstrate the system\u2032s ability to characterize large immune populations. Finally, we use sequence variation in the transcriptome data to determine host and donor chimerism at single cell resolution in bone marrow mononuclear cells (BMMCs) of transplant patients. This analysis enables characterization of the complex interplay between donor and host cells and monitoring of treatment response. This high-throughput system is robust and enables characterization of diverse biological systems with single cell mRNA analysis.', u'/content/early/2016/07/26/065912', [], [u'10x Genomics;', u'Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center']]
[u'The druggable genome and support for target identification and validation in drug development', ['Chris Finan', 'Anna Gaulton', 'Felix Kruger', 'Tom Lumbers', 'Tina Shah', 'Jorgen Engmann', 'Luana Galver', 'Ryan Kelly', 'Anneli Karlsson', 'Rita Santos', 'John Overington', 'Aroon Hingorani', 'Juan Pablo Casas'], u'July 26, 2016.', u'Target identification (identifying the correct drug targets for each disease) and target validation (demonstrating the effect of target perturbation on disease biomarkers and disease end-points) are essential steps in drug development.  We showed previously that biomarker and disease endpoint associations of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in a gene encoding a drug target accurately depict the effect of modifying the same target with a pharmacological agent; others have shown that genomic support for a target is associated with a higher rate of drug development success.  To delineate drug development (including repurposing) opportunities arising from this paradigm, we connected complex disease- and biomarker-associated loci from genome wide association studies (GWAS) to an updated set of genes encoding druggable human proteins, to compounds with bioactivity against these targets and, where these were licensed drugs, to clinical indications.  We used this set of genes to inform the design of a new genotyping array, to enable druggable genome-wide association studies for drug target selection and validation in human disease.', u'/content/early/2016/07/26/066027', [], [u'University College London;', u'European Molecular Biology Laboratory;', u'Illumina Inc.;', u'Stratified Medical;', u'Farr Institute']]
[u'Robust ergodicity and tracking in antithetic integral control of stochastic biochemical reaction networks', ['Corentin Briat', 'Mustafa Khammash'], u'July 26, 2016.', u'Controlling stochastic reactions networks is a challenging problem with important implications in various fields such as systems and synthetic biology. Various regulation motifs have been discovered or posited over the recent years, the most recent one being the so-called Antithetic Integral Control (AIC) motif in Briat et al. (Cell Systems, 2016). Several favorable properties for the AIC motif have been demonstrated for classes of reaction networks that satisfy certain irreducibility, ergodicity and output controllability conditions. Here we address the problem of verifying these conditions for large sets of reaction networks with fixed topology using two different approaches. The first one is quantitative and relies on the notion of interval matrices while the second one is qualitative and is based on sign properties of matrices. The obtained results lie in the same spirit as those obtained in Briat et al. (Cell Systems, 2016) where properties of reaction networks are independently characterized in terms of control theoretic concepts, linear programming conditions and graph theoretic conditions.', u'/content/early/2016/07/26/065938', [], [u'ETH Zurich']]
[u'Design: An assay based on single-polypeptide-chain heterodimeric A2AR/D2R and non-oligomerized fusions for in vivo analysis of their allosteric receptor-receptor interactions', ['Toshio KAMIYA', 'Takashi Masuko', 'Dasiel Oscar Borroto-Escuela', 'Haruo Okado', 'Hiroyasu Nakata'], u'July 26, 2016.', u'Background: The adenosine A2A receptor (A2AR) heteromerizes with the dopamine D2 receptor (D2R). In order to explore their functional interaction, we engineered previously stable single-polypeptide-chain (sc) A2AR/D2LR: whether the molecular entity of the striatal A2AR/D2R antagonism, i.e., scA2AR/D2Rs are just A2AR/D2R with the antagonism, remains unresolved.\nNew Method: To further clarify the heteromerization through the scA2AR/D2LR, we here designed supramolecularly \u02cbexclusive\u02ca monomers and dimers, using the C\u03f52 domain of IgE-Fc or apoproteins of the bacterial light-harvesting antenna complex.\nResults: A concept of the recptor protein assembly regulation, i.e., the selective monomer/non-obligate dimer formation was obtained. Although none of these new fusions were constructed or tested, we could aim at obtaining heterodimer-specific agents, using the scA2AR/D2R. Whether the resulting designs were explained feasibly and rationally was addressed. The structure and function of the non-obligate dimer were here discussed through scA2AR/D2R, focusing on the procedure of the membrane protein design and methods for transient protein-protein interactions.\nSummary and Outlook: Given that upon being expressed and allosteric regulation occurs regardless of specific signal to non-specific noise (S/N) ratio, the supramolecular designs, allowing us to express selectively monomer/non-obligate dimer of class A GPCR, are experimentally testable and will be used to confirm in vivo that such low S/N ratio interaction between A2AR and D2LR functions in the dopamine neurotransmission in the striatum.', u'/content/early/2016/07/26/065250', [], [u'Division of Gene Regulation, Institute for Advanced Medical Research, Keio University Sch. Med.;', u'Cell Biology Laboratory, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Kinki University;', u'Department of Neuroscience, Karolinska Institutet;', u'Neuronal Development Project, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical Science;', u'Department of Molecular Cell Signaling, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute for Neuroscience']]
[u'Hybrid assembly of the large and highly repetitive genome of Aegilops tauschii, a progenitor of bread wheat, with the mega-reads algorithm', ['Aleksey V Zimin', 'Daniela Puiu', 'Ming-Cheng Luo', 'Tingting Zhu', 'Sergey Koren', 'James A. Yorke', 'Jan Dvorak', 'Steven Salzberg'], u'July 26, 2016.', u'Long sequencing reads generated by single-molecule sequencing technology offer the possibility of dramatically improving the contiguity of genome assemblies. The biggest challenge today is that long reads have relatively high error rates, currently around 15%. The high error rates make it difficult to use this data alone, particularly with highly repetitive plant genomes. Errors in the raw data can lead to insertion or deletion errors (indels) in the consensus genome sequence, which in turn create significant problems for downstream analysis; for example, a single indel may shift the reading frame and incorrectly truncate a protein sequence. Here we describe an algorithm that solves the high error rate problem by combining long, high-error reads with shorter but much more accurate Illumina sequencing reads, whose error rates average <1%. Our hybrid assembly algorithm combines these two types of reads to construct mega-reads, which are both long and accurate, and then assembles the mega-reads using the CABOG assembler, which was designed for long reads. We apply this technique to a large data set of Illumina and PacBio sequences from the species Aegilops tauschii, a large and highly repetitive plant genome that has resisted previous attempts at assembly. We show that the resulting assembled contigs are far larger than in any previous assembly, with an N50 contig size of 486,807. We compare the contigs to independently produced optical maps to evaluate their large-scale accuracy, and to a set of high-quality bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC)-based assemblies to evaluate base-level accuracy.', u'/content/early/2016/07/26/066100', [], [u'University of Maryland;', u'Johns Hopkins University;', u'University of California, Davis;', u'National Human Genome Research Institute, NIH']]
[u'False Negatives Are a Significant Feature of Next Generation Sequencing Callsets', ['Dean Bobo', 'Mikhail Lipatov', 'Juan L. Rodriguez-Flores', 'Adam Auton', 'Brenna M Henn'], u'July 26, 2016.', u'Short-read, next-generation sequencing (NGS) is now broadly used to identify rare or de novo mutations in population samples and disease cohorts. However, NGS data is known to be error-prone and post-processing pipelines have primarily focused on the removal of spurious mutations or "false positives" in downstream genome datasets. Less attention has been paid to characterizing the fraction of missing mutations or "false negatives" (FN). We design a phylogeny-aware tool to determine false negatives [PhyloFaN] and describe how read coverage and reference bias affect the FN rate. Using thousand-fold coverage NGS data from both Illumina HiSeq and Complete Genomics platforms derived from the 1000 Genomes Project, we first characterize the false negative rate in human mtDNA genomes. The false negative rate for the publically available callsets is 17-20%, even for extremely high coverage haploid data. We demonstrate that high FN rates are not limited to mtDNA by comparing autosomal data from 28 publically available full genomes to intergenic Sanger sequenced regions for each individual. We examine both low-coverage Illumina and high-coverage Complete Genomics genomes. We show that the FN rate varies between ~6%-18% and that false-positive rates are considerably lower (<3%). The FN rate is strongly dependent on calling pipeline parameters, as well as read coverage. Our results demonstrate that missing mutations are a significant feature of genomic datasets and imply additional fine-tuning of bioinformatics pipelines is needed. We provide a tool which can be used to quantify the FN rate for haploid genomic experiments, without additional generation of validation data.', u'/content/early/2016/07/26/066043', [], [u'Stony Brook University;', u'Department of Ecology and Evolution, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, NY 11794, USA;', u'Department of Genetic Medicine, Weill Cornell Medical College. New York, NY, 10021, USA;', u'Department of Genetics, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY, 10461, USA']]
[u'Microbial Communities are Well Adapted to Disturbances in Energy Input', ['Nuria Fernandez-Gonzalez', 'Julie A. Huber', 'Joseph J. Vallino'], u'July 26, 2016.', u'Although microbial systems are well-suited for studying concepts in ecological theory, little is known about how microbial communities respond to long-term periodic perturbations beyond diel oscillations. Taking advantage of an ongoing microcosm experiment, we studied how methanotrophic microbial communities adapted to disturbances in energy input over a 20 day cycle period. Sequencing of bacterial 16S rRNA genes together with quantification of microbial abundance and ecosystem function was used to explore the long-term dynamics (510 days) of methanotrophic communities under continuous versus cyclic chemical energy supply. We observed that microbial communities appear inherently well-adapted to disturbances in energy input and that changes in community structure in both treatments are more dependent on internal dynamics than on external forcing. Results also show that the rare biosphere is critical to seeding the internal community dynamics, perhaps due to cross-feeding or other strategies. We conclude that in our experimental system, endogenous feedbacks were more important than exogenous drivers in shaping the community dynamics over time, suggesting that ecosystems can maintain their function despite inherently unstable community dynamics. \nIMPORTANCE \nWithin the broader ecological context, biological communities are often viewed as stable and only experience succession or replacement when subject to external perturbations, such as changes in food availability or introduction of exotic species. Our findings indicate that microbial communities can exhibit strong internal dynamics that may be more important in shaping community succession than external drivers.  Dynamic "unstable" communities may be important for ecosystem functional stability, with rare organisms playing an important role in community restructuring.  Understanding the mechanisms responsible for internal community dynamics will certainly be required for understanding and manipulating microbiomes in both host-associated and natural ecosystems.', u'/content/early/2016/07/26/066050', [], [u'Marine Biological Laboratory']]
[u'Within-host Evolution of Segments Ratio for the Tripartite Genome of Alfalfa Mosaic Virus', ['Beilei Wu', 'Mark P Zwart', 'Jesus A Sanchez-Navarro', 'Santiago F Elena'], u'July 26, 2016.', u'One of the most intriguing questions in evolutionary virology is why multipartite viruses exist.  Several hypotheses suggest benefits that outweigh the obvious costs associated with encapsidating each genomic segment into a different viral particle: reduced transmission efficiency and segregation of coadapted genes.  These putative advantages range from increasing genome size despite high mutation rates (i.e., escaping from Eigen paradox), faster replication, more efficient selection resulting from segment reassortment during mixed infections, or enhanced virion stability and cell-to-cell movement.  However, empirical support for these hypotheses is scarce.  A more recent hypothesis is that segmentation represents a simple and robust mechanism to regulate gene copy number and, thereby, gene expression.  According to this hypothesis, the ratio at which different segments exist during infection of individual hosts should represent a stable situation and would respond to the varying necessities of viral components during infection.  Here we report the results of experiments designed to test whether an evolutionary stable equilibrium exists for the three RNAs that constitute the genome of Alfalfa mosaic virus (AMV).  Starting infections with many different combinations of the three segments, we found that, as infection progresses, the abundance of each genome segment always evolves towards a constant ratio.  Population genetic analyses show that the segments ratio at this equilibrium is determined by frequency-dependent selection; indeed, it represents an evolutionary stable solution.  The replication of RNAs 1 and 2 was coupled and collaborative, whereas the replication of RNA 3 interfered with the replication of the other two.  We found that the equilibrium solution is slightly different for the total amounts of RNA produced and encapsidated, suggesting that competition exists between all RNAs during encapsidation.  Finally, we found that the observed equilibrium appears to be host-species dependent.', u'/content/early/2016/07/26/066084', [], [u'CSIC']]
[u'Discovery of Cancer Driver Long Noncoding RNAs across 1112 Tumour Genomes: New Candidates and Distinguishing Features.', ['Andres Lanzos', 'Joana Carlevaro-Fita', 'Loris Mularoni', 'Ferran Reverter', 'Emilio Palumbo', 'Roderic Guigo', 'Rory Johnson'], u'July 26, 2016.', u'Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) represent a vast unexplored genetic space that may hold missing drivers of tumourigenesis, but few such "driver lncRNAs" are known. Until now, they have been discovered through changes in expression, leading to problems in distinguishing between causative roles and passenger effects. We here present a different approach for driver lncRNA discovery using mutational patterns in tumour DNA. Our pipeline, ExInAtor, identifies genes with excess load of somatic single nucleotide variants (SNVs) across panels of tumour genomes. Heterogeneity in mutational signatures between cancer types and individuals is accounted for using a simple local trinucleotide background model, which yields high precision and low computational demands. We use ExInAtor to predict drivers from the GENCODE annotation across 1112 entire genomes from 23 cancer types. Using a stratified approach, we identify 15 high-confidence candidates: 9 novel and 6 known cancer-related genes, including MALAT1, NEAT1 and SAMMSON. Both known and novel driver lncRNAs are distinguished by elevated gene length, evolutionary conservation and expression. We have presented a first catalogue of mutated lncRNA genes driving cancer, which will grow and improve with the application of ExInAtor to future tumour genome projects.', u'/content/early/2016/07/26/065805', [], [u'Centre for Genomic Regulation;', u'Universitat Pompeu Fabra']]
[u'The role of brain oscillations in predicting the sensory consequences of your actions', ['Liyu Cao', 'Gregor Thut', 'Joachim Gross'], u'July 26, 2016.', u'Being able to predict self-generated sensory consequences is an important feature of normal brain functioning. In the auditory domain, self-generated sounds lead to smaller brain responses compared to externally generated sounds. Here we investigated the role of brain oscillations underlying this effect. With magnetoencephalography, we show that self-generated sounds are associated with increased pre-stimulus alpha power and decreased post-stimulus gamma power and alpha/beta phase locking in auditory cortex. All these oscillatory changes are correlated with changes in evoked responses. Furthermore, they correlate with each other across participants, supporting the idea that they constitute a neural information processing sequence for self-generated sounds, with pre-stimulus alpha power representing prediction and post-stimulus gamma power representing prediction error, which is further processed with post-stimulus alpha/beta phase resetting. Additional cross-trial analysis provides further support for the proposed sequence that might reflect a general mechanism for the prediction of self-generated sensory input.', u'/content/early/2016/07/26/065961', [], [u'University of Glasgow']]
[u'Phosphoproteomics-based Profiling of Kinase Activities in Cancer Cells', ['Jakob Wirbel', 'Pedro Rodriguez Cutillas', 'Julio Saez-Rodriguez'], u'July 26, 2016.', u'Cellular signaling, predominantly mediated by phosphorylation through protein kinases, is found to be deregulated in most cancers. Accordingly, protein kinases have been subject to intense investigations in cancer research, to understand their role in oncogenesis and to discover new therapeutic targets. Despite great advances, an understanding of kinase dysfunctioning in cancer is far from complete.\nA powerful tool to investigate phosphorylation is mass-spectrometry (MS)-based phosphoproteomics, which enables the identification of thousands of phosphorylated peptides in a single experiment. Since every phosphorylation event results from the activity of a protein kinase, high-coverage phosphoproteomics data should indirectly contain comprehensive information about the activity of protein kinases.\nIn this chapter, we discuss the use of computational methods to predict kinase activity scores from MS-based phosphoproteomics data. We start with a short explanation of the fundamental features of the phosphoproteomics data acquisition process from the perspective of the computational analysis. Next, we briefly review the existing databases with experimentally verified kinase-substrate relationships and present a set of bioinformatic tools to discover novel kinase targets. We then introduce different methods to infer kinase activities from phosphoproteomics data and these kinase-substrate relationships. We illustrate their application with a detailed protocol of one of the methods, KSEA (Kinase Substrate Enrichment Analysis). This method is implemented in Python within the framework of the open-source Kinase Activity Toolbox (kinact), which is freely available at http://github.com/saezlab/kinact/.', u'/content/early/2016/07/26/066019', [], [u'Joint Research Centre for Computational Biomedicine (JRC-COMBINE), RWTH Aachen University;', u'Barts Cancer Institute, Queen Mary University of London']]
[u'Genetic heterogeneity in depressive symptoms following the death of a spouse: Polygenic score analysis of the US Health and Retirement Study', ['Ben W Domingue', 'Hexuan Liu', 'Daniel W. Belsky'], u'July 26, 2016.', u"Experience of stressful life events is associated with risk of depression. Yet many exposed individuals do not become depressed. A controversial hypothesis is that genetic factors influence vulnerability to depression following stress. This hypothesis is most commonly tested with a 'diathesis-stress' model, in which genes confer excess vulnerability. We tested an alternative model, in which genetics may buffer against the depressogenic effects of life stress. We measured the hypothesized genetic buffer using a polygenic score derived from a genome-wide association study of subjective wellbeing. We tested if older married adults who had higher polygenic scores were less subject to depressive symptoms following the death of their spouse as compared to peers who had also lost their spouse and who had lower polygenic scores. We analyzed data from N=9,453 non-Hispanic white adults in the Health and Retirement Study (HRS), a population-representative longitudinal study of older adults in the United States. HRS adults with higher wellbeing polygenic scores experienced fewer depressive symptoms during follow-up. Those who lost their spouses (n=1,829) during follow-up experienced a sharp increase in depressive symptoms following the death and returned toward baseline over the following two years. Having a higher polygenic score buffered against developing depressive symptoms following a spouse's death. Effects were small and clinical relevance is uncertain, although polygenic score analyses may provide clues to behavioral pathways that can serve as therapeutic targets. Future studies of gene-environment interplay in depression may benefit from focus on genetics discovered for putative protective factors.", u'/content/early/2016/07/26/065847.1', [], [u'Stanford University;', u'University of North Carolina;', u'Duke University']]
[u'Genomic divergence, introduction history and latitudinal adaptation of grass carp', ['Le Wang', 'Yubang Shen', 'Jianjun Fu', 'Xiaoyan Xu', 'Gen Hua Yue', 'Jiale Li'], u'July 26, 2016.', u'Understanding the genomic signatures of population differentiation is fundamental to obtain a comprehensive view of the evolutionary process of organisms. Grass carp is one of the most important fish species in the world due to its significant value in aquaculture and world-wide vegetation biocontrol. However, little is known about the contemporary population structure and also the genetic basis of adaptation to a wide range of latitudinal environments. Using 43310 SNPs generated by genotyping by sequencing in 197 grass carps from nine populations, we examined the patterns of population differentiation, historical introduction and evidence of local selection. The overall genetic differentiation across all native populations was unexpectedly low. Nevertheless, these native populations were clearly differentiated into three genetic clusters, corresponding to the Yangtze River, the Pearl River and the Heilongjiang River System, respectively. Populations in Malaysia, India and Nepal, with the earliest introduction records, most likely have an origin from the Pearl River System. Using conceptually different approaches, 451 loci were detected under potential local selection, among which 84 were annotated to have a gene feature. 19.0% of the genes under putative selection were involved in immune responses, while 42.9% of the annotated loci showed a signature of latitudinal variation. This study provides valuable information for application of genomic tools in addressing questions concerning population differentiation that was influenced by both neutral and adaptive forces, as well as human activities.', u'/content/early/2016/07/26/066092', [], [u'Shanghjai Ocean University, China;', u'Shanghai Ocean University, China;', u'Freshwater Fisheries Research Center, Chinese Academy of Fishery Sciences, China;', u'Temasek Life Sciences Laboratory, China']]
[u'The fail-safe mechanism of post-transcriptional silencing of unspliced HAC1 mRNA', ['Rachael Di Santo', 'Soufiane Aboulhouda', 'David E Weinberg'], u'July 26, 2016.', u'HAC1 encodes a transcription factor that is the central effector of the unfolded protein response (UPR) in budding yeast. When the UPR is inactive, HAC1 mRNA is stored as an unspliced isoform in the cytoplasm and no Hac1 protein is detectable. Intron removal is both necessary and sufficient to relieve the post-transcriptional silencing of HAC1 mRNA, yet the precise mechanism by which the intron prevents Hac1 protein accumulation has remained elusive. Here, we show that a combination of inhibited translation initiation and accelerated protein degradation - both dependent on the intron - prevents the accumulation of Hac1 protein when the UPR is inactive. Functionally, both components of this fail-safe silencing mechanism are required to prevent ectopic production of Hac1 protein and concomitant activation of the UPR. Our results provide a mechanistic understanding of HAC1 regulation and reveal a novel strategy for complete post-transcriptional silencing of a cytoplasmic mRNA.', u'/content/early/2016/07/26/066118', [], [u'University of California, San Francisco']]
[u'Chaotic propagation of spatial cytoskeletal instability modulates integrity of podocyte foot processes', ['Cibele V Falkenberg', 'Evren U Azeloglu', 'Mark Stothers', 'Thomas J Deerinck', 'Yibang Chen', 'John C He', 'Mark H. Ellisman', 'James C. Hone', 'Ravi Iyengar', 'Leslie M. Loew'], u'July 26, 2016.', u'The function of the kidney podocyte depends on its distinctive morphology. Each podocyte has finger-like projections, called foot processes, that interdigitate with the processes of neighboring cells to form the glomerular filtration barrier. The integrity of foot process interactions depends on tight spatial control of the dynamics of the underlying actin cytoskeleton, which is regulated by the GTPases, Rac1 and RhoA. To understand how spatially-specific regulation of actin filament dynamics within foot processes controls local morphology, we used a combination of 3-D microscopy and dynamical models. We experimentally determined cell-cell interactions using serial blockface scanning electron microscopy and reconstructed a 3-D spatial representation of a podocyte. We developed a minimal dynamical system for regulation of the actin cytoskeleton; using this 3-D model, we determined how spatial reaction-diffusion dynamics can dysregulate actin bundling, leading to propagation of chaotic foot process effacement. Consistent with experimental observations, our simulations predicted that hyperactive RhoA could destabilize the cytoskeleton. Our simulations showed that deleterious mechanochemical stimuli could lead to local heterogeneity of cytoskeletal dynamics resulting in the emergence of progressive and chaotic loss of foot processes. While global enhancement of Rac1 may result in stronger bundles, the spatial simulations showed that even transient local heterogeneities in polymerization could have dramatic consequences in the stability of multiple foot processes. We conclude that the podocyte morphology optimized for filtration contains intrinsic fragility whereby local imbalances in biochemical and biophysical reactions lead to morphological changes associated with glomerular pathophysiology.', u'/content/early/2016/07/26/065839.1', [u'Biophysics'], [u'U. Connecticut School of Medicine;', u'Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai;', u'Columbia University;', u'UCSD']]
[u'AFNI and Clustering: False Positive Rates Redux', ['Robert W Cox', 'Richard C Reynolds', 'Paul A Taylor'], u'July 26, 2016.', u'In response to reports of inflated false positive rate (FPR) in\nFMRI group analysis tools, a series of replications,\ninvestigations, and software modifications were made to address\nthis issue.  While these investigations continue, significant\nprogress has been made to adapt AFNI to fix such problems.  Two\nseparate lines of changes have been made.  First, a long-tailed\nmodel for the spatial correlation of the FMRI noise characterized\nby autocorrelation function (ACF) was developed and implemented\ninto the 3dClustSim tool for determining the cluster-size\nthreshold to use for a given voxel-wise threshold.  Second, the\n3dttest++ program was modified to do randomization of the\nvoxel-wise t-tests and then to feed those randomized t-statistic\nmaps into 3dClustSim directly for cluster-size threshold\ndetermination\ufe63without any spatial model for the ACF.  These\napproaches were tested with the Beijing subset of the FCON-1000\ndata collection.  The first approach shows markedly\nimproved (reduced) FPR, but in many cases is still above the\nnominal 5%.  The second approach shows FPRs clustered tightly\nabout 5% across all per-voxel p-value thresholds \u2264 0.01.  If\nt-tests from a univariate GLM are adequate for the group analysis\nin question, the second approach is what the AFNI group currently\nrecommends for thresholding.  If more complex per-voxel\nstatistical analyses are required (where\npermutation/randomization is impracticable), then our current\nrecommendation is to use the new ACF modeling approach coupled\nwith a per-voxel p-threshold of 0.001 or below. Simulations were\nalso repeated with the now infamously "buggy" version of\n3dClustSim: the effect of the bug on FPRs was minimal (of order a\nfew percent).', u'/content/early/2016/07/26/065862', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'NIMH, NIH']]
[u'A generalized quantitative antibody homeostasis model: antigen saturation, natural antibodies and a quantitative antibody network', ['Jozsef Prechl'], u'July 26, 2016.', u'In a pair of articles we present a generalized model for the homeostatic function of clonal humoral immune system. Our model assumes that the essence of antibody homeostasis is to maintain a balance between the saturation of B-cell receptors (BCR) by antigen and the saturation of antigen by antibodies. In this paper we describe how antibody production results in the saturation of antigens and the network of antibody interactions that emerges in the epitome space with the establishment of the immune system.\nEfficient control of antigens, be it self or foreign, requires the maintenance of antibody concentrations that saturate antigen to relevant levels. This in turn means that depending on the affinity of the interaction high or low free antibody concentrations should be maintained for low and high affinity antibodies, respectively. Simple calculations suggest that the observed diverse recognition of antigens by natural antibodies is only possible by cross-reactivity whereby particular clones of antibodies bind to different targets and contribute to the maintenance of free antibody concentration. This shared recognition is a key feature of natural antibodies. Furthermore, we argue that natural antibodies are none else than the result of thymus independent responses against immunological self. The role of the humoral immune system is the homeostatic control of this compartment, controlling molecular crowding and catabolism and protecting barriers of the compartment and beyond. We also interpret and explain antibody production and function in a virtual molecular interaction space and as a network of interactions. Indeed the model we propose is in agreement with earlier models, confirms some assumptions and presumably provides the theoretical basis for the construction of a real antibody network using sequence and database data.', u'/content/early/2016/07/26/065748', [u'Immunology'], [u'Diagnosticum']]
[u'Ostreococcus tauri is cobalamin-independent', ['Mark Pasek'], u'July 26, 2016.', u'The marine microalga Ostreococcus is considered to depend on the methionine synthase METH and its methylated cobalamin cofactor for methionine synthesis. Here I describe minimal media lacking both cobalt and cobalamin yet suitable for clonal growth of  Ostreococcus tauri. Because Ostreococcus lacks the methylcobalamin-independent methionine synthase METE, Ostreococcus growth without cobalamin is unexplained.', u'/content/early/2016/07/26/065771', [u'Genomics'], [u'SaltWater Algae']]
[u'The Influence of Lymphoid Reconstitution Kinetics on Clinical Outcomes in Allogeneic Stem Cell Transplantation', ['David J Kobulnicky', 'Roy T Sabo', 'Shashank Sharma', 'Ali S Shubar Ali', 'Kristen Kobulnicky', 'Catherine Roberts', 'Alison Scalora', 'William Clark', 'Harold Chung', 'John M McCarty', 'Amir A Toor'], u'July 26, 2016.', u'Lymphoid recovery following myeloablative stem cell transplantation (SCT) displays a logistic pattern of exponential growth followed by a plateau. Within this logistic framework, lymphoid recovery is characterized by the parameters R (slope of ascent), a (time of maximal rate of ascent) and K (plateau), the steady state lymphocyte count.  A retrospective analysis of allogeneic SCT performed from 2008 to 2013 was undertaken to compare lymphoid recovery and clinical outcomes in 131 patients with acute myelogenous leukemia, acute lymphocytic leukemia and myelodysplastic syndromes.  Using Prism software, a logistic curve was successfully fit to the absolute lymphocyte count recovery in all patients. Patients were classified according to the magnitude and rate of lymphoid recovery; pattern A achieved an ALC of > 1000/uL by day 45; pattern B an ALC 500 < x < 1000 /uL and pattern C, an ALC <500/uL.  Pattern A was characterized by a higher mean K ( p < 0.0001) compared with patterns B & C.  Patients with patterns B and C were more likely to have mixed T cell chimerism at ninety days following SCT (p=0.01). There was a trend towards improved survival, (and relapse-free survival) in those with pattern A and B at one year compared to pattern C (p = 0.073). There was no difference in cGVHD (p=0.42) or relapse (p=0.45) between pattern types. CMV, aGVHD and relapse all were heralded by deviation from logistic behavior. Pattern C patients were more likely to require donor lymphocyte infusion (p=0.017). Weaning of Tacrolimus post-transplant was associated with a second, separate logistic expansion in some patients. This study demonstrated that lymphoid reconstitution follows a prototypical logistic recovery and that pattern observed correlates with T cell chimerism and need for DLI, and may influence survival.', u'/content/early/2016/07/26/065680', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Bone Marrow Transplant Program, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA, USA;', u'B Bone Marrow Transplant Program, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA, USA']]
[u'Biophysical properties of human \u03b2-cardiac myosin with converter mutations that cause hypertrophic cardiomyopathy', ['Masataka Kawana', 'Saswata S Sarkar', 'Shirley Sutton', 'Kathleen M Ruppel', 'James Spudich'], u'July 26, 2016.', u"Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) affects 1 in 500 individuals and is an important cause of arrhythmias and heart failure. Clinically, HCM is characterized as causing hyper-contractility, and therapies are aimed toward controlling the hyperactive physiology. \u03b2-cardiac myosin comprises ~40 percent of genetic mutations associated with HCM and the converter domain of myosin is a hot spot for HCM-causing mutations, but the underlying primary effects of these mutations on myosin's biomechanical function remain elusive. We hypothesize that these mutations affect the biomechanical properties of myosin, such as increasing its intrinsic force and/or its duty ratio and therefore the ensemble force of the sarcomere. Using recombinant human \u03b2-cardiac myosin, we characterize the molecular effects of three severe HCM-causing converter domain mutations R719W, R723G and G741R. Contrary to our hypothesis, the intrinsic forces of R719W and R723G mutant myosins are decreased compared to wild type, and unchanged for G741R. Actin and regulated thin filament gliding velocities are ~15 percent faster for R719W and R723G myosin, while there is no change in velocity for G741R. ATPase activities and the load-dependent velocity change profiles of all three mutant proteins are very similar to wild type. These results indicate that the net biomechanical properties of human \u03b2-cardiac myosin carrying these converter domain mutations are very similar to wild type or even slightly hypo-contractile, leading us to consider an alternative mechanism for the clinically observed hyper-contractility. Future work includes how these mutations affect protein interactions within the sarcomere that increase the availability of myosin heads participating in force production.", u'/content/early/2016/07/26/065649', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Stanford University School of Medicine']]
[u'Feedforward and feedback frequency-dependent interactions in a large-scale laminar network of the primate cortex', ['Jorge F Mejias', 'John D Murray', 'Henry Kennedy', 'Xiao-Jing Wang'], u'July 26, 2016.', u'Interactions between top-down and bottom-up processes in the cerebral cortex hold the key to understanding predictive coding, executive control and a gamut of other brain functions. The underlying circuit mechanism, however, remains poorly understood and represents a major challenge in neuroscience. In the present work we tackled this problem using a large-scale computational model of the primate cortex constrained by new directed and weighted connectivity data. In our model, the interplay between feedforward and feedback signaling depends on the cortical laminar structure and involves complex dynamics across multiple (intra-laminar, inter-laminar, inter-areal and whole cortex) scales. The model was tested by reproducing, and shedding insights into, a wide range of neurophysiological findings about frequency-dependent interactions between visual cortical areas: feedforward pathways are associated with enhanced gamma (30-70 Hz) oscillations, whereas feedback projections selectively modulate alpha/low beta (8-15 Hz) oscillations. We found that in order for the model to account for the experimental observations, the feedback projection needs to predominantly target infragranular layers in a target area, which leads to a proposed circuit substrate for predictive coding. The model reproduces a functional hierarchy based on frequency-dependent Granger causality analysis of inter-areal signaling, as reported in recent monkey and human experiments. Taken together, this work highlights the importance of multi-scale approaches and provides a modeling platform for studies of large-scale brain circuit dynamics and functions.', u'/content/early/2016/07/26/065854', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'New York University;', u'Yale School of Medicine;', u'Universite de Lyon;', u'NYU-Shanghai']]
[u'A generalized quantitative antibody homeostasis model: regulation of B\u2010cell development by BCR saturation and novel insights into bone marrow function', ['Jozsef Prechl'], u'July 26, 2016.', u'In a pair of articles we present a generalized model for the homeostatic function of clonal humoral\nimmune system. Our model assumes that the essence of antibody homeostasis is to maintain a balance between the saturation of B\u2010cell receptors (BCR) by antigen and the saturation of antigen by antibodies. In this paper we describe the cycles of B-cell expansion and differentiation driven by BCR engagement maintenance.\nThe fate of a B cell is determined by the signals it receives via its antigen receptor at any point of its lifetime. Starting with the expression of the surrogate light chain B cells go through several cycles of activation, proliferation, survival, antibody production all governed by BCR engagement. B cells move around to find a niche with antigens providing survival signal via the BCR. When they receive stronger-than-survival signals (antigen abundance) they produce antibodies or expand, their progeny competing for BCR mediated survival by different mechanisms in each niche. These include heavy chain production by rearrangement, light chain production by rearrangement, heavy chain class switching and affinity maturation. Transient downregulation of BCR is observed when cells cycle or receive other survival signals. By using this framework, free antigen concentration and apparent affinity as dimensions, for each niche we identify the mechanism of B1 cell development and we argue that bone marrow is more than a source of developing B cells but is rather the first organ to respond to antigen. This antigen is self at the early stages of life but includes non-self in adulthood.', u'/content/early/2016/07/26/065730', [u'Immunology'], [u'Diagnosticum']]
[u'A Novel Family of Genomics Islands Across Multiple Species of Streptococcus', ['Jing Wang', 'Changjun Wang', 'Weizhong Feng', 'Youjun Feng', 'Liming Zhi', 'Wenjuan Li', 'Yi Yao', 'Shibo Jiang', 'Jiaqi Tang'], u'July 26, 2016.', u'The genus Streptococcus is one of the most genomically diverse and important human and agricultural pathogens. The acquisition of genomic islands (GIs) plays a central role in adaptation to new hosts in the genus pathogens. The research presented here employs a comparative genomics approach to define a novel family of GIs in the genus Streptococcus which also appears across strains of the same species.  Specifically, we identified 9 Streptococcus genomes out of 67 sequenced genomes analyzed, and we termed these as 15bp Streptococcus genomic islands, or 15SGIs, including i) insertion adjacent to the 3\u2032 end of ribosome l7/l12 gene, ii) large inserts of horizontally acquired DNA, and iii) the presence of mobility genes (integrase) and replication initiators. We have identified a novel family of 15SGIs and seems to be important in species differentiation and adaptation to new hosts. It plays an important role during strain evolution in the genus Streptococcus.', u'/content/early/2016/07/26/065920', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Translational Medicine Center, PLA hospital No. 454, China;', u'Department of Epidemiology, Medicinal Research Institute, Nanjing Military Command, China;', u'PLA hospital No. 454, China;', u'Department of Medical Microbiology & Parasitology, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, China;', u'Lindsley F. Kimball Research Institute, New York Blood Center, China;', u'Institute of Laboratory Medicine, Jinling Hospital, Nanjing University School of Medicine, China']]
[u'Cell type composition is the primary - but far from the only - power shaping temporal transcriptome of human brains', ['Qianhui Yu', 'Zhisong He'], u'July 26, 2016.', u"The functions of human brains highly depend on the precise temporal regulation of gene expression, and substantial transcriptome changes across lifespan have been observed. While cell type composition is known to be temporally variable in brains, it remains unclear whether it is the primary cause of age-related transcriptome changes. Here, taking advantage of published human brain single-cell RNA-seq data, we applied a two-step transcriptome deconvolution procedure to the public age series RNA-seq data to quantify the contribution of cell type composition in shaping the temporal transcriptome in human brains. We estimated that composition change contributed to around 25% of the total variance and was the primary factor of age-related transcriptome changes. On the other hand, genes with substantial composition-independent temporal expression changes were also observed, which had diverged expression properties, functions and regulators as genes with temporal expression changes related to composition. This indicates a second independent mechanism shaping the human brain's temporal transcriptome properties, which is important for human brain functions.", u'/content/early/2016/07/26/065292', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'CAS-MPG Partner Institute for Computational Biology, SIBS, CAS']]
