[u'Possible existence of optical communication channels in the brain', ['Sourabh Kumar', 'Kristine Boone', 'Jack Tuszynski', 'Paul E Barclay', 'Christoph Simon'], u'July 7, 2016.', u'Given that many fundamental questions in neuroscience are still open, it seems pertinent to explore whether the brain might use other physical modalities than the ones that have been discovered so far. In particular it is well established that neurons can emit photons, which prompts the question whether these biophotons could serve as signals between neurons, in addition to the well-known electro-chemical signals. For such communication to be targeted, the photons would need to travel in waveguides. Here we show, based on detailed theoretical modeling, that myelinated axons could serve as photonic waveguides, taking into account realistic optical imperfections. We propose experiments, both in vivo and in vitro, to test our hypothesis. We discuss the implications of our results, including the question whether photons could mediate long-range quantum entanglement in the brain.', u'/content/early/2016/07/07/062745', [], [u'University of Calgary;', u'University of Alberta']]
[u'Integrative networks illuminate biological factors underlying gene-disease associations', ['Arjun Krishnan', 'Jaclyn N Taroni', 'Casey S Greene'], u'July 7, 2016.', u'Integrative networks combine multiple layers of biological data into a model of how genes work together to carry out cellular processes. Such networks become more valuable as they become more context specific, for example, by capturing how genes work together in a certain tissue or cell type. Once constructed, these networks provide the means to identify broad biological patterns underlying genes associated with complex traits and diseases. In this review, we discuss the different types of integrative networks that currently exist and how such networks that encompass multiple biological layers are constructed. We highlight how specificity can be incorporated into the reconstruction of different types of biomolecular interactions between genes, using tissue-specificity as a motivating example. We identify examples of cases where networks have been applied to study human diseases and discuss opportunities for new applications.', u'/content/early/2016/07/07/062695', [], [u'Princeton University;', u'University of Pennsylvania;', u'0000-0002-7980-4110']]
[u'Modifications to a LATE MERISTEM IDENTITY-1 gene are responsible for the major leaf shapes of Upland cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.)', ['Ryan J Andres', 'Viktoriya Coneva', 'Margaret Frank', 'John R Tuttle', 'Sang-Won Han', 'Luis F Samayoa', 'Baljinder Kaur', 'Linglong Zhu', 'Hui Fang', 'Daryl T Bowman', 'Marcela Rojas-Pierce', 'Candace H Haigler', 'Don C Jones', 'James B Holland', 'Daniel H Chitwood', 'Vasu Kuraparthy'], u'July 7, 2016.', u'Manipulation of cotton canopy architecture offers the potential to maximize yield while minimizing inputs. Here we show that the major leaf shapes of cotton at the L-D1 locus are controlled by a Late Meristem Identity1-D1b (GhLMI1-D1b) gene which encodes a HD-Zip transcription factor. Okra leaf GhLMI1-D1b has a 133-bp tandem duplication in the promoter, correlated with elevated expression, while an 8-bp deletion in the third exon of normal leaf GhLMI1-D1b causes a frame-shifted and truncated coding sequence. Virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) of GhLMI1-D1b in an okra variety was sufficient to induce normal leaf formation. An intermediate leaf shape allele, sub-okra, lacks both the promoter duplication and the exonic deletion. Our results indicate that sub-okra is the ancestral leaf shape of tetraploid cotton and normal is a derived mutant allele that came to predominate and define the leaf shape of cultivated cotton.', u'/content/early/2016/07/07/062612', [], [u'North Carolina State University;', u'Danforth Plant Sciences Center;', u'North Carolina State University & USDA-ARS;', u'Cotton Incorporated']]
[u'BK Channel Function Bidirectionally Influences Behavioral Deficits Following Withdrawal from Chronic Ethanol in Caenorhabditis elegans', ['Luisa Scott', 'Scott Davis', 'Rachel Yen', 'Greg Ordemann', 'Deepthi Bannai', 'Jonathan Pierce-Shimomura'], u'July 7, 2016.', u'The severity of withdrawal from chronic ethanol is a driving force for relapse in alcohol dependence. Thus, uncovering molecular changes that can be targeted to lessen withdrawal symptoms is key to breaking the cycle of dependence. Using the model nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, we tested whether one highly conserved ethanol target, the BK potassium channel, may play a major role in alcohol withdrawal. Consistent with a previous report, we found that C. elegans displays behavioral impairment during withdrawal from chronic ethanol that can be reduced by low-dose ethanol. We discovered that the degree of impairment is exacerbated in worms lacking the BK channel, SLO-1, and is alleviated by selective rescue of the BK channel in the nervous system. Conversely, behavioral impairment during withdrawal was dramatically lower in worms with BK channel function enhanced via gain-of-function mutation or overexpression. Consistent with these results, we found that chronic ethanol exposure decreased BK channel expression in a subset of neurons. In addition, we found that a distinct, conserved large-conductance potassium channel, SLO-2, showed the inverse functional relationship, influencing withdrawal behavior via a SLO-1 channel-dependent mechanism. Our findings demonstrate that withdrawal symptoms in C. elegans are mechanistically explained in part by a functional imbalance in the nervous system associated with a reduction in SLO-1 channel expression. Therefore, selective modulation of Slo family ion channel activity may represent a novel therapeutic approach to explore for normalizing behaviors during alcohol withdrawal.', u'/content/early/2016/07/07/062752', [], [u'University of Texas at Austin, United States']]
[u'Evolution of mutation rates in rapidly adapting asexual populations', ['Benjamin H. Good', 'Michael M. Desai'], u'July 7, 2016.', u'Mutator and antimutator alleles often arise and spread in both natural microbial populations and laboratory evolution experiments. The evolutionary dynamics of these mutation rate modifiers are determined by indirect selection on linked beneficial and deleterious mutations. These indirect selection pressures have been the focus of much earlier theoretical and empirical work, but we still have a limited analytical understanding of how the interplay between hitchhiking and deleterious load influences the fates of modifier alleles. Our understanding is particularly limited when clonal interference is common, which is the regime of primary interest in laboratory microbial evolution experiments. Here, we calculate the fixation probability of a mutator or antimutator allele in a rapidly adapting asexual population, and we show how this quantity depends on the population size, the beneficial and deleterious mutation rates, and the strength of a typical driver mutation. In the absence of deleterious mutations, we find that clonal interference enhances the fixation probability of mutators, even as they provide a diminishing benefit to the overall rate of adaptation. When deleterious mutations are included, natural selection pushes the population towards a stable mutation rate that can be suboptimal for the adaptation of the population as a whole. The approach to this stable mutation rate is not necessarily monotonic, and selection can favor mutator and antimutator alleles that overshoot the stable mutation rate by substantial amounts.', u'/content/early/2016/07/07/062760', [], [u'Harvard University, United States']]
[u'Cell fusion proteins can rejuvenate adult dendritic trees', ['Veronika Kravtsov', 'Meital Oren-Suissa', 'Benjamin Podbilewicz'], u'July 7, 2016.', u'The convoluted architecture of dendritic arbors poses a challenge to understanding age-dependent alterations and regeneration following injury.  Here, we show that induction of cellular fusogens can remodel and facilitate regeneration of dendrites in polymodal PVD neurons of aging Caenorhabditis elegans. Using whole-animal live imaging, we find that the PVD dendritic trees, composed of repetitive "menorah" units, show age-dependent hyperbranching, disorganization, and loss of self-avoidance. These processes, while independent of canonical lifespan-regulating pathways, can be partially rescued by ectopic expression of the fusogen EFF-1. Furthermore, the decreased capacity of old animals to repair laser-induced severed dendrites via auto-fusion can be restored by reducing DAF-2 (Insulin/IGF-1Receptor) function or by ectopic expression of the EFF-1 paralog AFF-1. Our findings demonstrate that fusogens are sufficient to maintain the dendritic arbor structure and increase its regeneration potential in aging animals. These antiaging strategies can be potentially applied to other organisms to protect them from neurodegeneration.', u'/content/early/2016/07/07/062679', [], [u'Technion- Israel Institute of Technology']]
[u'Assocplots: a python package for static and interactive visualization of multiple-group GWAS results', ['Ekaterina A Khramtsova', 'Barbara E. Stranger'], u'July 7, 2016.', u'Summary: Over the last decade, genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have generated vast amounts of analysis results, requiring development of novel tools for data visualization. Quantile-quantile plots and Manhattan plots are classical tools which have been utilized to visually summarize GWAS results and identify genetic variants significantly associated with traits of interest. However, static visualizations are limiting in the information that can be shown. Here we present Assocplots, a python package for viewing and exploring GWAS results not only using classic static Manhattan and quantile-quantile plots, but also through a dynamic extension which allows to visualize data interactively, and to visualize the relationships between GWAS results from multiple cohorts or studies.\nAvailability: The Assocplots package is open source and distributed under the MIT license via GitHub (https://github.com/khramts/assocplots) along with examples, documentation and installation instructions.\nContact: ekhramts@medicine.bsd.uchicago.edu, bstranger@medicine.bsd.uchicago.edu', u'/content/early/2016/07/07/062737', [], [u'University of Chicago']]
[u'Rapid and efficient analysis of 20,000 RNA-seq samples with Toil', ['John Vivian', 'Arjun Rao', 'Frank Austin Nothaft', 'Christopher Ketchum', 'Joel Armstrong', 'Adam Novak', 'Jacob Pfeil', 'Jake Narkizian', 'Alden D. Deran', 'Audrey Musselman-Brown', 'Hannes Schmidt', 'Peter Amstutz', 'Brian Craft', 'Mary Goldman', 'Kate Rosenbloom', 'Melissa Cline', "Brian O'Connor", 'Megan Hanna', 'Chet Birger', 'W. James Kent', 'David A. Patterson', 'Anthony D. Joseph', 'Jingchun Zhu', 'Sasha Zaranek', 'Gad Getz', 'David Haussler', 'Benedict Paten'], u'July 7, 2016.', u'Toil is portable, open-source workflow software that supports contemporary workflow definition languages and can be used to securely and reproducibly run scientific workflows efficiently at large-scale. To demonstrate Toil, we processed over 20,000 RNA-seq samples to create a consistent meta-analysis of five datasets free of computational batch effects that we make freely available. Nearly all the samples were analysed in under four days using a commercial cloud cluster of 32,000 preemptable cores.', u'/content/early/2016/07/07/062497', [], [u'University of California Santa Cruz Genomics Institute;', u'AMP Lab, University of California Berkeley;', u'Curoverse;', u'Broad Institute of Harvard and Massachusetts Institute of Technology']]
[u'A conceptual view at microtubule plus end dynamics in neuronal axons', ['Andre Voelzmann', 'Ines Hahn', 'Simon Pearce', 'Natalia P Sanchez-Soriano', 'Andreas Prokop'], u'July 7, 2016.', u'Axons are the cable-like protrusions of neurons which wire up the nervous system. Polar bundles of microtubules (MTs) constitute their structural backbones and are highways for life-sustaining transport between proximal cell bodies and distal synapses. Any morphogenetic changes of axons during development, plastic rearrangement, regeneration or degeneration depend on dynamic changes of these MT bundles. A key mechanism for implementing such changes is the coordinated polymerisation and depolymerisation at the plus ends of MTs within these bundles. To gain an understanding of how such regulation can be achieved at the cellular level, we provide here an integrated overview of the extensive knowledge we have about the molecular mechanisms regulating MT de/polymerisation. We first summarise insights gained from work in vitro, then describe the machinery which supplies the essential tubulin building blocks, the protein complexes associating with MT plus ends, and MT shaft-based mechanisms that influence plus end dynamics. We briefly summarise the contribution of MT plus end dynamics to important cellular functions in axons, and conclude by discussing the challenges and potential strategies of integrating the existing molecular knowledge into conceptual understanding at the level of axons.', u'/content/early/2016/07/07/062711', [], [u'University of Manchester;', u'University of Liverpool']]
[u"Awake Canine fMRI Predicts Dogs' Preference for Praise Versus Food", ['Peter Cook', 'Ashley Prichard', 'Mark Spivak', 'Gregory S Berns'], u'July 7, 2016.', u"Dogs are hypersocial with humans, and their integration into human social ecology makes dogs a unique model for studying cross-species social bonding. However, the proximal neural mechanisms driving dog-human social interaction are unknown. We used fMRI in 15 awake dogs to probe the neural basis for their preferences for social interaction and food reward. In a first experiment, we used the ventral caudate as a measure of intrinsic reward value and compared activation to conditioned stimuli that predicted food, praise, or nothing. Relative to the control stimulus, the caudate was significantly more active to the reward-predicting stimuli and showed roughly equal or greater activation to praise versus food in 13 of 15 dogs. To confirm that these differences were driven by the intrinsic value of social praise, we performed a second imaging experiment in which the praise was withheld on a subset of trials. The difference in caudate activation to the receipt of praise, relative to its withholding, was strongly correlated with the differential activation to the conditioned stimuli in the first experiment. In a third experiment, we performed an out-of-scanner choice task in which the dog repeatedly selected food or owner in a Y-maze. The relative caudate activation to food- and praise-predicting stimuli in Experiment 1 was a strong predictor of each dog's sequence of choices in the Y-maze. Analogous to similar neuroimaging studies of individual differences in human social reward, our findings demonstrate a neural mechanism for preference in domestic dogs that is stable within, but variable between, individuals. Moreover, the individual differences in the caudate responses indicate the potentially higher value of social than food reward for some dogs and may help to explain the apparent efficacy of social interaction in dog training.", u'/content/early/2016/07/07/062703', [], [u'Emory University;', u'Comprehensive Pet Therapy']]
[u'Steady at the wheel: conservative sex and the benefits of bacterial transformation', ['Ole-Herman Ambur', 'Jan Engelstadter', 'Pal Johnsen', 'Eric Miller', 'Daniel Rozen'], u'July 7, 2016.', u'Many bacteria are highly sexual, but the reasons for their promiscuity remain obscure. Did bacterial sex evolve to maximize diversity and facilitate adaptation in a changing world, or does it instead help to retain the bacterial functions that work right now? In other words, is bacterial sex innovative or conservative? Our aim in this review is to integrate experimental, bioinformatic and theoretical studies to critically evaluate these alternatives, with a main focus on natural genetic transformation, the bacterial equivalent of eukaryotic sexual reproduction. First, we provide a general overview of several hypotheses that have been put forward to explain the evolution of transformation. Next, we synthesize a large body of evidence highlighting the numerous passive and active barriers to transformation that have evolved to protect bacteria from foreign DNA, thereby increasing the likelihood that transformation takes place among clonemates. Our critical review of the existing literature provides support for the view that bacterial transformation is maintained as a means of genomic conservation that provides direct benefits to both individual bacterial cells and to transformable bacterial populations. We examine the generality of this view across bacteria and contrast this explanation with the different evolutionary roles proposed to maintain sex in eukaryotes.', u'/content/early/2016/07/07/062562', [], [u'Akershus University College of Applied Sciences;', u'The University of Queensland;', u'The Artic University of Norway;', u'University of Manchester;', u'Leiden University']]
[u'Towards an emotional stress test: a reliable, non-subjective cognitive measure of anxious responding.', ['Jessica Aylward', 'Oliver Robinson'], u'July 7, 2016.', u'Response to stress is a key factor in mood and anxiety disorder aetiology. Current measures of stress-response are limited because they largely rely on retrospective self-report. Objectively quantifying individual differences in stress response would be a valuable step towards improving our understanding of disorder vulnerability. Our goal is to develop a reliable, objective, within-subject probe of stress response. To this end, we examined stress-potentiated performance on an inhibitory control task from baseline to 2-4 weeks (n=50) and again after 5-9 months (n=22) as well as examining population measures for a larger sample (n=165). Replicating previous findings, threat of shock improved distractor accuracy and slowed target reaction time on this task. Critically, both within-subject self-report measures of stress (ICC=0.74) and stress-potentiated task performance (ICC=0.58) showed clinically useful test-retest reliability. Threat-potentiated task performance may therefore hold promise as a non-subjective measure of individual stress-reactivity.', u'/content/early/2016/07/07/062661', [], [u'Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience, UCL']]
[u'Detection of structural mosaicism from targeted and whole-genome sequencing data', ['Daniel A King', 'Alejandro Sifrim', 'Tomas W. Fitzgerald', 'Raheleh Rahbari', 'Emma Hobson', 'Tessa Homfray', 'Sahar Mansour', 'Sarju G. Mehta', 'Mohammed Shehla', 'Susan E. Tomkins', 'Pradeep C. Vasudevan', 'Matthew E. Hurles'], u'July 7, 2016.', u'Structural mosaic abnormalities are large post-zygotic mutations present in a subset of cells and have been implicated in developmental disorders and cancer. Such mutations have been conventionally assessed in clinical diagnostics using cytogenetic or microarray testing. Modern disease studies rely heavily on exome sequencing, yet an adequate method for the detection of structural mosaicism using targeted sequencing data is lacking. Here, we present a method, called MrMosaic, to detect structural mosaic abnormalities using deviations in allele fraction and read coverage from next generation sequencing data. Whole-exome sequencing (WES) and whole-genome sequencing (WGS) simulations were used to calculate detection performance across a range of mosaic event sizes, types, clonalities, and sequencing depths. The tool was applied to 4,911 patients with undiagnosed developmental disorders, and 11 events in 9 patients were detected. In 8 of 11 cases, mosaicism was observed in saliva but not blood, suggesting that assaying blood alone would miss a large fraction, possibly more than 50%, of mosaic diagnostic chromosomal rearrangements.', u'/content/early/2016/07/07/062620', [], [u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Hinxton, Cambridge, United Kingdom;', u'Department of Clinical Genetics, Chapel Allerton Hospital, Leeds, United Kingdom;', u"Southwest Thames Regional Genetics Centre, St George's Healthcare NHS Trust, London, United Kingdom;", u'East Anglian Regional Genetics Service, Addenbrookes Hospital, Cambridge, United Kingdom;', u"Guy's Hospital, London, United Kingdom;", u"Department of Clinical Genetics, St Michael's Hospital, Bristol, United Kingdom;", u'Leicester Royal Infirmary, Leicester, United Kingdom']]
[u'Autism genes are selectively targeted by environmental pollutants including pesticides, heavy metals, bisphenol A, phthalates and many others in food, cosmetics or household products.', ['Chris J Carter', 'Robert Blizard'], u'July 7, 2016.', u'The increasing incidence of autism suggests a major environmental influence.  Epidemiology has implicated many candidates and genetics many susceptibility genes. Gene/environment interactions in autism were analysed using 206 autism genes (ASGs) to interrogate ~1 million chemical/gene interactions in the comparative toxicogenomics database. Bias towards ASGs was statistically determined for each chemical. Many suspect compounds identified in epidemiology, including tetrachlorodibenzodioxin, pesticides, particulate matter, benzo(a)pyrene , heavy metals, valproate, acetaminophen, SSRIs, cocaine, bisphenol A, phthalates, polyhalogenated biphenyls, flame retardants, diesel constituents , terbutaline and oxytocin, inter alia showed a significant degree of bias towards ASGs, as did relevant endogenous agents (retinoids, sex steroids, thyroxine, melatonin, folate, dopamine, serotonin). Numerous other endocrine disruptors selectively targeted ASGs including paraquat, atrazine and other pesticides not yet studied in autism and many compounds used in food, cosmetics or household products, including tretinoin, soy phytoestrogens , aspartame, titanium dioxide and sodium fluoride. Autism polymorphisms are known to influence sensitivity to some of these chemicals and these same genes play an important role in barrier function and control of respiratory cilia sweeping particulate matter from the airways. The close gene/environment relationships, for multiple suspect pollutants, suggest that the rising incidence of autism might be chemically driven by numerous environmental contaminants in a gene dependent manner. The protective dappled camouflage of the peppered moth was rendered invalid by industrial soot covering the trees, a situation reversed by clean air acts.  The rising tide of neurodevelopmental and other childhood disorders linked to multiple pollutants may need a similar solution.', u'/content/early/2016/07/07/062521', [], [u'PolygenicPathways;', u'University College London']]
[u'Information Isometry Technique Reveals Organizational Features in Developmental Cell Lineages', ['Bradly John Alicea', 'Thomas E. Portegys', 'Richard Gordon'], u'July 7, 2016.', u'In this paper, we will introduce a method for calculating and visualizing the information content of embryogenesis called the information isometry technique. We treat cell lineage trees as directed acyclic graphs (DAGs) that can be subject to reordering using various criteria. When we compare alternative orderings of these graphs, they reveal subtle patterns of information. We use one such alternative criteria (e.g. a differentiation code) to sort cells at each level of the tree. Both axial- and differentiation-based orderings can by characterized using a binary classifier to quantify the order of particular cells at each level of a given tree. We calculate a Hamming distance to compare these orderings and reveal differences that result from these ordering criteria. We also introduce a method of visualization through the construction of isometric graphs, or a series of colored points forming isometric lines with each representing a level of the original lineage tree. We show that these graphs reveal biologically significant patterns through comparisons between randomly generated lineage/differentiation trees and the Caenorhabditis elegans lineage/differentiation tree. As a collective indicator of distance between various cell lineage orderings, isometric graphs can reveal a number of emergent patterns within cell lineages and between sublineages, including the relative information content of specific subtrees. These patterns of information content reveal the informative nature of alternative ordering criteria with respect to important trends in development.', u'/content/early/2016/07/07/062539', [], [u'Orthogonal Research, OpenWorm Foundation;', u'Dialectek LLC, OpenWorm Foundation;', u'Gulf Specimen Marine Lab, Wayne State University']]
[u'Joint Genotype- and Ancestry-based Genome-wide Association Studies in Admixed Populations', ['Piotr Szulc', 'Malgorzata Bogdan', 'Florian Frommlet', 'Hua Tang'], u'July 7, 2016.', u'In Genome-Wide Association Studies (GWAS) genetic loci that influence complex traits are localized by inspecting  associations between genotypes of genetic markers and the values of the trait of interest. On the other hand Admixture Mapping, which is performed in case of populations consisting of a recent mix of two ancestral groups, relies on the ancestry information at each locus (locus-specific ancestry).Recently it has been proposed to jointly model genotype and locus-specific ancestry within the framework of single marker tests. Here we extend this approach for population-based GWAS in the direction of multi marker models. A modified version of the Bayesian Information Criterion is developed for building a multi-locus model, which accounts for the differential correlation structure due to linkage disequilibrium and admixture linkage disequilibrium. Simulation studies and a real data example illustrate the advantages of this new approach compared to single-marker analysis and modern model selection strategies based on  separately analyzing genotype and ancestry data, as well as to single-marker analysis combining genotypic and ancestry information. \nDepending on the signal strength our procedure automatically chooses whether genotypic or  locus-specific ancestry markers are added to the model. This results in a good compromise between the power to detect causal mutations and the precision of their localization. The proposed method has been implemented in R and is available at http://www.math.uni.wroc.pl/~mbogdan/admixtures/ .', u'/content/early/2016/07/07/062554', [], [u'Wroclaw University of Technology;', u'University of Wroclaw;', u'Medical University of Vienna;', u'Stanford University']]
[u'Cell-type specific open chromatin profiling in human postmortem brain infers functional roles for non-coding schizophrenia loci', ['John F Fullard', 'Claudia Giambartolomei', 'Mads E Hauberg', 'Ke Hu', 'Christopher Bare', 'Joel T Dudley', 'Manuel Mattheisen', 'Joseph K Pickrell', 'Vahram Haroutunian', 'Panos Roussos'], u'July 7, 2016.', u'To better understand the role of cis regulatory elements in neuropsychiatric disorders we applied ATAC-seq to neuronal and non-neuronal nuclei isolated from frozen postmortem human brain. Most of the identified open chromatin regions (OCRs) are differentially accessible between neurons and non-neurons, and show enrichment with known cell type markers, promoters and enhancers. Relative to those of non-neurons, neuronal OCRs are more evolutionarily conserved and are enriched in distal regulatory elements. Our data reveals sex differences in chromatin accessibility and identifies novel OCRs that escape X chromosome inactivation, with implications for intellectual disability. Transcription factor footprinting analysis identifies differences in the regulome between neuronal and non-neuronal cells and ascribes putative functional roles to 16 non-coding schizophrenia risk variants. These results represent the first analysis of cell-type-specific OCRs and TF binding sites in postmortem human brain and further our understanding of the regulome and the impact of neuropsychiatric disease-associated genetic risk variants.', u'/content/early/2016/07/07/062513', [u'Genomics'], [u'Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai;', u'Aarhus University;', u'New York Genome Center']]
[u'Characterization of the effects of n-butanol on the cell envelope of E. coli', ['Eugene Fletcher', 'Teuta Pilizota', 'Philip R. Davies', 'Alexander McVey', 'Chris E. French'], u'July 7, 2016.', u'Biofuel alcohols have severe consequences on the microbial hosts used in their biosynthesis, which limits the productivity of the bioconversion. The cell envelope is one of the most strongly affected structures, in particular, as the external concentration of biofuels rises during biosynthesis. Damage to the cell envelope can have severe consequences, such as impairment of transport into and out of the cell; however the nature of butanol-induced envelope damage has not been well characterized. In the present study, the effects of n-butanol on the cell envelope of Escherichia coli were investigated. Using enzyme and fluorescence-based assays, we observed that 1% v/v n-butanol resulted in release of lipopolysaccharides from the outer membrane of E. coli and caused leakiness in both outer and inner membranes. Higher concentrations of n-butanol, within the range of 2% - 10% (v/v), resulted in inner membrane protrusion through the peptidoglycan observed by characteristic blebs. The findings suggest that strategies for rational engineering of butanol-tolerant bacterial strains should take into account all components of the cell envelope.', u'/content/early/2016/07/07/062547', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Technical University of Denamrk;', u'University of Edinburgh']]
[u'Comments on: "A comprehensive repertoire of tRNA-derived fragments in prostate cancer"', ['Rogan Magee', 'Phillipe Loher', 'Aristeidis Telonis', 'Yohei Kirino', 'Isidore Rigoutsos'], u'July 7, 2016.', u"We evaluated the tRNA-derived fragments from human prostate tissue that were discovered in deep-sequencing (RNA-seq) data and reported in [1]. Our study of the same RNA-seq datasets reveals a considerably different and more populous pool of tRNA fragments, many of them with higher abundance than the fragments that were reported originally. We also evaluated the employed q-PCR technique. As the latter lacks 5'-endpoint specificity, it will not estimate correctly the abundance of many of the tRFs that are present in the sampled RNA populations from human prostate tissue.", u'/content/early/2016/07/07/061572', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Computational Medicine Center, Sidney Kimmel Medical College']]
[u'Lateral pressure profile in bent lipid membranes and mechanosensitive channel gating', ['Anna Drozdova', 'Sergei Mukhin'], u'July 7, 2016.', u"This review describes the analytical calculation of lateral pressure profile in the hydrophobic part of\nthe lipid bilayer with finite curvature based on previously developed microscopic model for lipid  hydrocarbon\nchains. According to this theory the energy per unit chain is represented as energy of flexible string (Euler's\nelastic beam of finite thickness) and interaction between chains is considered as an entropic repulsion.  This\nmicroscopic theory  allows to obtain expression for lateral pressure distribution in bent bilayer if treating a\nbending as a small deviation from the flat membrane conformation and using perturbation theory. Because\nlateral pressure distribution  is related to elastic properties of lipid bilayer then the first moment of lateral\npressure and the expression for bending modulus may be derived from this theoretical model. Finally one\ncan estimate the energy difference between two various conformational states of mechanosensitive channel\nembedded into the bilayer with given pressure profile.", u'/content/early/2016/07/07/062463', [u'Biophysics'], [u'NUST "MISIS"']]
[u'Metabolic Reconstruction and Modeling Microbial Electrosynthesis', ['Christopher Marshall', 'Daniel Ross', 'Kim Handley', 'Pamela Weisenhorn', 'Janaka Edirisinghe', 'Christopher Henry', 'Jack Gilbert', 'Harold May', 'R Sean Norman'], u'July 7, 2016.', u'Microbial electrosynthesis is a renewable energy and chemical production platform that relies on microbial taxa to capture electrons from a cathode and fix carbon. Yet the metabolic capacity of multispecies microbial communities on electrosynthetic biocathodes remains unknown. We assembled 13 genomes from a high-performing electroacetogenic culture, and mapped their transcriptional activity from a range of conditions. This allowed us to create a metabolic model of the primary community members (Acetobacterium, Sulfurospirillum, and Desulfovibrio). Acetobacterium was the primary carbon fixer, and a keystone member of the community. Based on transcripts upregulated near the electrode surface, soluble hydrogenases and ferredoxins from Acetobacterium and hydrogenases, formate dehydrogenase, and cytochromes of Desulfovibrio were essential conduits for electron flow from the electrode into the electrosynthetic community. A nitrogenase gene cluster with an adjacent ferredoxin and one of two Rnf complexes within the genome of the Acetobacterium were also upregulated on the electrode.  Nitrogenase is known to serve as a hydrogenase, thereby it would contribute to hydrogen production by the biocathode. Oxygenases of microaerobic members of the community throughout the cathode chamber, including Sulfurospirillum and Rhodobacteraceae, were expressed.  While the reactors were maintained anaerobically, this gene expression would support anaerobic growth and thus electrosynthesis by scrubbing small amounts of O2 out of the reactor.  These molecular discoveries and metabolic modeling now serve as a foundation for future examination and development of electrosynthetic microbial communities.', u'/content/early/2016/07/07/059410', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Argonne National Laboratory;', u'University of South Carolina;', u'University of Auckland;', u'University of Chicago;', u'Medical University of South Carolina']]
