[u'The effect of subthreshold transcranial magnetic stimulation on the excitation of corticospinal volleys with different conduction times', ['Niclas Niemann', 'Patrick Wiegel', 'John C. Rothwell', 'Christian Leukel'], u'November 6, 2016.', u'Previous studies in humans interested in inhibitory synaptic activity at the level of the primary motor cortex (M1) have frequently used an electrophysiological technique call short intracortical inhibition (SICI). This technique consists of two subsequent pulses with transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), of which the first pulse (S1) has been argued to target local inhibitory connections, reducing corticospinal output generated by the second pulse (S2). However, the reduction of corticospinal output is not seen in every tested subject, sometimes S1 even increased corticospinal output. Thus there seems to be more occurring than just the targeting of local inhibitory connections by S1, indicating that the mechanisms of SICI are not fully understood. In the present study, in 18 healthy young subjects we applied a method allowing to segregate corticospinal volleys with different conduction times and investigated the effect of S1 on the excitation of these volleys. Our results revealed three major findings, which can be summarized as follows: i) S1 acted not only locally at the level of M1, but produced corticospinal activity which may influence corticospinal output by S2 at the spinal level; ii) there was not only reduced excitation of corticospinal volleys by S1, but also an increased excitation of corticospinal volleys with longer conduction times; iii) at the level of M1, S1 indeed targeted preferentially inhibitory synaptic connections, and these reduced corticospinal excitation of the fastest conduction corticospinal volleys. \nOur results indicate that underlying mechanisms in studies applying SICI should be interpreted with caution.', u'/content/early/2016/11/06/084574', [], [u'University of Freiburg;', u'University College London']]
[u'A looping-based model for quenching repression', ['Yaroslav Pollak', 'Sarah Goldberg', 'Roee Amit'], u'November 6, 2016.', u"We model the regulatory role of proteins bound to looped DNA using a simulation in which dsDNA is\nrepresented as a self-avoiding chain, and proteins as spherical protrusions. We simulate long self-avoiding chains using a sequential importance sampling Monte-Carlo algorithm, and compute the probabilities for chain looping with and without a protrusion. We find that a protrusion near one of the chain's termini reduces the probability of looping, even for chains much longer than the protrusion\u2212chain-terminus distance. This effect increases with protrusion size, and decreases with protrusion-terminus distance. The reduced probability of looping can be explained via an eclipse-like model, which provides a novel inhibitory mechanism. We test the eclipse model on two possible transcription-factor occupancy states\nof the eve 3/7 enhancer, and show that it provides a possible explanation for the experimentally-observed\neve stripe 3 and 7 expression patterns.", u'/content/early/2016/11/06/085217', [], [u'Technion Israel Institute of Technology']]
[u'Structural connectome topology relates to regional BOLD signal dynamics in the mouse brain', ['Sarab S Sethi', 'Valerio Zerbi', 'Nicole Wenderoth', 'Alex Fornito', 'Ben D Fulcher'], u'November 6, 2016.', u"Brain dynamics unfold on a network determined by the pattern of axonal connections linking pairs of neuronal populations; the so-called connectome. Prior work has indicated that structural brain connectivity constrains pairwise correlations in brain dynamics (also called functional connectivity), but it is not known whether brain network structure is related to the intrinsic dynamics of individual brain regions. In this study, we investigate the relationship between a brain region's inter-regional axonal connectivity and its dynamics using a weighted, directed mesoscale mouse connectome from the Allen Mouse Brain Connectivity Atlas and resting state functional MRI (rs-fMRI) time-series data measured in 184 brain regions in eighteen anesthetized mice. Three properties of a brain region's structural network connectivity were measured - degree, betweenness, and clustering coe\ufb03cient - from weighted and unweighted, and directed and undirected versions of the connectome. We then characterised the univariate rs-fMRI dynamics at each brain region by computing 6930 time-series properties using recently developed highly comparative time-series analysis software, hctsa. We found that strong and robust relationships between the inter-regional axonal connectivity of a brain region and its intrinsic fMRI dynamics were mediated by the weighted in-degree, the total weight of incoming connections to a brain region, emphasizing the importance of measuring weight and directionality of network connections. Brain regions with increased weighted in-degree exhibit rs-fMRI dynamics with reduced variance (correlation to standard deviation, \u03c1 = \u22120.62), and slower correlation timescales (correlation to relative high frequency power, f \u2265 0.375Hz, \u03c1 = -0.58), relationships that were reproduced in each of the eighteen individual mice that underwent rs-fMRI. Our results indicate that the topology of inter-regional axonal connections of the mouse brain is closely related to the intrinsic, spontaneous dynamics occurring within a region and that variations in the aggregate strength of incoming projections to a region are associated with both the variability and timescales of that region's activity \ufb02uctuations.", u'/content/early/2016/11/06/085514', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Imperial College London;', u'ETH Zurich;', u'Monash Biomedical Imaging']]
