[u'A broad sense measure of health and its properties in the HRS', ['Phillip A. Cantu', 'Connor M. Sheehan', 'Ben W. Domingue'], u'October 16, 2016.', u'Measuring health is a crucial component of much social research. Two approaches are typical. Health may be measured via either narrowly targeted questions about aspects of disability or chronic conditions. Alternatively, individuals may be asked to self-report their health in some global sense. Both approaches have potential drawbacks. We consider a broad sense measure of health constructed by items from five different batteries related to physical and mental wellbeing. We demonstrate that this measure predicts time until death better than self-reported health, especially for females. Although this measure has promise, we argue that future surveys on health would benefit from the inclusion of additional items focusing on issues salient to younger individuals or other non-disabled respondents.', u'/content/early/2016/10/16/081232', [], [u'Population Research Center and Department of Sociology, University of Texas at Austin;', u'Stanford Graduate School of Education']]
[u'Identification of new bacterial type III secreted effectors with a recursive Hidden Markov Model profile-alignment strategy', ['Xi Cheng', 'Xinjie Hui', 'Aaron P. White', 'Zhirong Guo', 'Yueming Hu', 'Yejun Wang'], u'October 16, 2016.', u'To identify new bacterial type III secreted effectors is computationally a big challenge. At least a dozen machine learning algorithms have been developed, but so far have only achieved limited success. Sequence similarity appears important for biologists but is frequently neglected by algorithm developers for effector prediction, although large success was achieved in the field with this strategy a decade ago. In this study, we propose a recursive sequence alignment strategy with Hidden Markov Models, to comprehensively find homologs of known YopJ/P full-length proteins, effector domains and N-terminal signal sequences. Using this method, we identified 155 different YopJ/P-family effectors and 59 proteins with YopJ/P N-terminal signal sequences from 27 genera and more than 70 species. Among these genera, we also identified one type III secretion system (T3SS) from Uliginosibacterium and two T3SSs from Rhizobacter for the first time. Higher conservation of effector domains, N-terminal fusion of signal sequences to other effectors, and the exchange of N-terminal signal sequences between different effector proteins were frequently observed for YopJ/P-family proteins. This made it feasible to identify new effectors based on separate similarity screening for the N-terminal signal peptides and the effector domains of known effectors. This method can also be applied to search for homologues of other known T3SS effectors.', u'/content/early/2016/10/16/081265', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Shenzhen University Health Science Center;', u'University of Saskatchewan;', u'Beijing Chest Hospital']]
[u'Ring attractor dynamics emerge from a spiking model of the entire protocerebral bridge', ['Kyobi S Kakaria', 'Benjamin L de Bivort'], u'October 16, 2016.', u'Animal navigation is accomplished by a combination of landmark-following and dead reckoning based on estimates of self motion. Both of these approaches require the encoding of heading information, which can be represented as an allocentric or egocentric azimuthal angle. Recently, Ca2+ correlates of landmark position and heading direction, in egocentric coordinates, were observed in the ellipsoid body (EB), a ring-shaped processing unit in the fly central complex (Seelig and Jayaraman, 2015). These correlates displayed key dynamics of so-called ring attractors, namely: 1) responsiveness to the position of external stimuli, 2) persistence in the absence of external stimuli, 3) locking onto a single external stimulus when presented with two competitors, 4) stochastically switching between competitors with low probability, and 5) sliding or jumping between positions when an external stimulus moves. We hypothesized that ring attractor-like activity in the EB arises from reciprocal neuronal connections to a related structure, the protocerebral bridge (PB). Using recent light-microscopy resolution catalogues of neuronal cell types in the PB (Wolff et al., 2015; Lin et al., 2013), we determined a connectivity matrix for the PB-EB circuit. When activity in this network was simulated using a leaky-integrate-and-fire model, we observed patterns of activity that closely resemble the reported Ca2+ phenomena. All qualitative ring attractor behaviors were recapitulated in our model, allowing us to predict failure modes of the PB ring attractor and the circuit dynamic phenotypes of thermogenetic or optogenetic manipulations. Ring attractor dynamics emerged under a wide variety of parameter configurations, even including non-spiking leaky-integrator implementations. This suggests that the ring-attractor computation is a robust output of this circuit, apparently arising from its high-level network properties (topological configuration, local excitation and long-range inhibition) rather than biological nitty gritty.', u'/content/early/2016/10/16/081240', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Harvard University']]
[u'Chromosomal dynamics predicted by an elastic network model explains genome-wide accessibility and long-range couplings', ['Natalie Sauerwald', 'She Zhang', 'Carl Kingsford', 'Ivet Bahar'], u'October 16, 2016.', u'Understanding the three-dimensional (3D) architecture of the chromatin and its relation to gene expression and regulation is fundamental to understanding how the genome functions. Advances in Hi-C technology now permit us to have a glimpse into the 3D genome organization and identify topologically associated domains (TADs), but we still lack an understanding of the structural dynamics of chromosomes. The dynamic couplings between regions separated by large genomic distances (> 50 megabases) have yet to be characterized. We adapted a well-established protein-modeling framework, the Gaussian Network Model (GNM), to the task of modeling chromatin dynamics using Hi-C contact data. We show that the GNM can identify structural dynamics at multiple scales: it can quantify the fluctuations in the positions of gene loci, find large genomic compartments and smaller TADs that undergo en-bloc movements, and identify dynamically coupled distal regions along the chromosomes. We show that the predictions of the GNM correlate well with DNase-seq and ATAC-seq measurements on accessibility, the previously identified A and B compartments of chromatin structure, and pairs of interacting loci identified by ChIA-PET. We\ndescribe a method to use the GNM to identify novel cross-correlated distal domains (CCDDs) representing regions of long-range dynamic coupling and show that CCDDs are often associated with increased gene coexpression\nusing a large-scale analysis of 212 expression experiments. Together, these results show that GNM provides a mathematically well-founded unified framework for assessing chromatin dynamics and the structural basis of genome-wide observations.', u'/content/early/2016/10/16/081182', [u'Genomics'], [u'Carnegie Mellon University;', u'University of Pittsburgh']]
[u'Complete coverage of space favors modularity of the grid system in the brain', ['Alessandro Sanzeni', 'Vijay Balasubramanian', 'Guido Tiana', 'Massimo Vergassola'], u'October 16, 2016.', u'Grid cells in the entorhinal cortex fire when animals  that are exploring a certain region of space occupy the vertices of a triangular grid that spans the environment.  Different neurons feature triangular grids that differ in their properties of periodicity, orientation and ellipticity. Taken together, these grids allow the animal to maintain an internal, mental representation of physical space. Experiments show that grid cells are modular, i.e. there are groups of neurons which have grids with similar periodicity, orientation and ellipticity. We use statistical physics methods to derive a relation between variability of the properties of the grids within a module and the range of space that can be covered completely (i.e. without gaps) by the grid system with high probability. Larger variability shrinks the range of representation, providing a functional rationale for the experimentally observed co-modularity of grid cell periodicity, orientation and ellipticity. We obtain a scaling relation between the number of\nneurons and the period of a module, given the variability and coverage range. Specifically, we predict how many more neurons are required at smaller grid scales than at larger ones.', u'/content/early/2016/10/16/081356', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Milan;', u'University of Pennsylvania;', u'University of Milan and INFN;', u'University of California San Diego']]
[u'Systems assessment of transcriptional regulation on central carbon metabolism by Cra and CRP', ['Donghyuk Kim', 'Sang Woo Seo', 'Hojung Nam', 'Gabriela I. Guzman', 'Ye Gao', 'Bernhard O. Palsson'], u'October 16, 2016.', u'Two major transcriptional regulators of carbon metabolism in bacteria are Cra and CRP. CRP is considered to be the main mediator of catabolite repression. Unlike for CRP, available in vivo DNA binding information of Cra is scarce.  Here we generate and integrate ChIP-exo and RNA-seq data to identify 39 binding sites for Cra and 97 regulon genes that are regulated by Cra in Escherichia coli. An integrated metabolic-regulatory network was formed by including experimentally-derived regulatory information and a genome-scale metabolic network reconstruction. Applying analysis methods of systems biology to this integrated network showed that Cra enables the optimal bacterial growth on poor carbon sources by redirecting and repressing the glycolysis flux, by activating the glyoxylate shunt pathway, and by activating the respiratory pathway. In these regulatory mechanisms, the overriding regulatory activity of Cra over CRP is fundamental. Thus, elucidation of interacting transcriptional regulation of core carbon metabolism in bacteria by two key transcription factors was possible by combining genome-wide experimental measurement and simulation with a genome-scale metabolic model.', u'/content/early/2016/10/16/080929', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Kyung Hee University;', u'Seoul National Unviersity;', u'GIST;', u'University of California, San Diego']]
[u'The hidden elasticity of avian and mammalian genomes', ['Aurelie Kapusta', 'Alexander Suh', 'Cedric Feschotte'], u'October 16, 2016.', u"Genome size in mammals and birds shows remarkably little interspecific variation compared to other taxa. Yet, genome sequencing has revealed that many mammal and bird lineages have experienced differential rates of transposable element (TE) accumulation, which would be predicted to cause substantial variation in genome size between species. Thus, we hypothesize that there has been co-variation between the amount of DNA gained by transposition and lost by deletion during mammal and avian evolution, resulting in genome size homeostasis. To test this model, we develop a computational pipeline to quantify the amount of DNA gained by TE expansion and lost by deletion over the last 100 million years (My) in the lineages of 10 species of eutherian mammals and 24 species of birds. The results reveal extensive variation in the amount of DNA gained via lineage-specific transposition, but that DNA loss counteracted this expansion to various extent across lineages. Our analysis of the rate and size spectrum of deletion events implies that DNA removal in both mammals and birds has proceeded mostly through large segmental deletions (>10 kb). These findings support a unified 'accordion' model of genome size evolution in eukaryotes whereby DNA loss counteracting TE expansion is a major determinant of genome size. Furthermore, we propose that extensive DNA loss, and not necessarily a dearth of TE activity, has been the primary force maintaining the greater genomic compaction of flying birds and bats relative to their flightless relatives.", u'/content/early/2016/10/16/081307', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Utah School of Medicine;', u'Uppsala University;', u'University of Utah']]
[u'A sensitized mutagenesis screen in Factor V Leiden mice identifies novel thrombosis suppressor loci', ['Randal J Westrick', 'Kart Tomberg', 'Amy E Siebert', 'Guojing Zhu', 'Mary E Winn', 'Sarah L Dobies', 'Sara L Manning', 'Marisa A Brake', 'Audrey Cleuren', 'Lena M Mishack', 'Linzi M Hobbs', 'Alexander Johnston', 'David R Siemieniak', 'Jishu Xu', 'Jun Z Li', 'David Ginsburg'], u'October 16, 2016.', u'Factor V Leiden (F5L) is a common genetic risk factor for venous thromboembolism (VTE), though it exhibits only 10% penetrance. We conducted a sensitized ENU mutagenesis screen for dominant thrombosuppressor genes based on perinatal lethal thrombosis in mice homozygous for F5L (F5L/L) and haploinsufficient for tissue factor pathway inhibitor (Tfpi+/-). The observation that F8 deficiency enhanced survival of F5L/L Tfpi+/- mice demonstrated the potential for genetic suppression of F5L/L Tfpi+/- lethality. G0 ENU-mutagenized F5L/L males and F5L/+ Tfpi+/- females were next crossed to generate 6,739 G1 progeny, with 98 F5L/L Tfpi+/- offspring surviving until weaning and 16 exhibiting transmission of a putative thrombosuppressor to subsequent generations. The resulting lines are referred to as MF5L, (Modifier of Factor 5 Leiden 1-16). Linkage analysis in MF5L6 identified a chromosome 3 locus containing the tissue factor gene (F3). Though no ENU-induced F3 mutation was identified, heterozygous F3 deficient mice (F3+/-) suppressed F5L/L Tfpi+/- lethality. Thus, like F8 deficiency, reduced F3 activity suppresses F5L/L Tfpi+/- thrombosis. Whole exome sequencing in MF5L12 identified an Actr2 gene point mutation (p.R258G) as the sole candidate. Attempts to generate an independent Actr2 knockin/knockout via CRISPR/Cas9 failed for any mouse beyond the 60-cell stage. Our findings identify F8 and the TFPI/F3 axis as key regulators of thrombosis balance in the setting of F5L and demonstrate the utility of this sensitized ENU mutagenesis approach for the identification of dominant thrombosis suppressor loci.', u'/content/early/2016/10/16/080432', [u'Genetics'], [u'Oakland University;', u'University of Michigan;', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Oakland University;', u'Howard Hughes Medical Institute']]
[u'Pervasive adaptation in Plasmodium-interacting proteins in mammals', ['Emily R Ebel', 'Natalie Telis', 'Sandeep Venkataram', 'David Enard', 'Dmitri Petrov'], u'October 16, 2016.', u'The protozoan genus Plasmodium causes malaria in dozens of mammal species, including humans, non-human primates, rodents, and bats. In humans, Plasmodium infections have caused hundreds of millions of documented deaths, imposing strong selection on certain populations and driving the emergence of several resistance alleles. Over the deep timescale of mammalian evolution, however, little is known about host adaptation to Plasmodium. In this work, we expand the collection of known Plasmodium-interacting-proteins (PIPs) in mammalian hosts from ~10 to 410, by manually curating thousands of scientific abstracts. We use comparative tests of adaptation to show that PIPs have experienced >3 times more positive selection than similar mammalian proteins, consistent with Plasmodium as a major and long-standing selective pressure. PIP adaptation is strongly linked to gene expression in the blood, liver, and lung, all of which are clinically relevant tissues in Plasmodium infection. Interestingly, we find that PIPs with immune functions are especially enriched for additional interactions with viruses or bacteria, which together drive a 3.7-fold excess of adaptation. These pleiotropic interactions with unrelated pathogens, along with pressure from other Plasmodium-like Apicomplexan parasites, may help explain the PIP adaptation we observe in all clades of the mammalian tree. As a case study, we also show that alpha-spectrin, the major membrane component of mammalian red blood cells, has experienced accelerated adaptation in domains known to interact specifically with Plasmodium proteins. Similar interactions with Plasmodium-like parasites appear to have driven substantial adaptation in hundreds of host proteins throughout mammalian evolution.', u'/content/early/2016/10/16/081216', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Stanford University']]
[u'Measuring speaker-listener neural coupling with functional near infrared spectroscopy', ['Yichuan Liu', 'Elise A. Piazza', 'Erez Simony', 'Patricia A. Shewokis', 'Banu Onaral', 'Uri Hasson', 'Hasan Ayaz'], u'October 16, 2016.', u"The present study investigates brain-to-brain coupling, defined as inter-subject correlations in the hemodynamic response, during natural verbal communication. We used functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) to record brain activity of speakers telling stories and listeners comprehending audio recordings of these stories. Listeners' brain activity was correlated with speakers' with a delay. This between-brain correlation disappeared when verbal communication failed. We further compared the fNIRS and functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) recordings of listeners comprehending the same story and found a relationship between the fNIRS oxygenated-hemoglobin concentration changes and the fMRI BOLD in brain areas associated with speech comprehension. This correlation between fNIRS and fMRI was only present when data from the same story were compared between the two modalities and vanished when data from different stories were compared; this cross-modality consistency further highlights the reliability of the spatiotemporal brain activation pattern as a measure of story comprehension. Our findings suggest that fNIRS is a powerful tool for investigating brain-to-brain coupling during verbal communication. As fNIRS sensors are relatively low-cost and can even be built into wireless, portable, battery-operated systems, these results highlight the potential of broad utilization of this approach in everyday settings for augmenting communication and interaction.", u'/content/early/2016/10/16/081166', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Drexel University;', u'Princeton University;', u'Princeton Neuroscience Institute;', u"Drexel University; University of Pennsylvania; Children's Hospital of Philadelphia"]]
[u'How we transmit memories to other brains: constructing shared neural representations via communication', ['Asieh Zadbood', 'Janice Chen', 'Yuan Chang Leong', 'Kenneth A. Norman', 'Uri Hasson'], u'October 16, 2016.', u"It is striking that humans are able to encode and later verbally share their memories of an episode with listeners, who are in turn able to imagine (mentally construct) details of the episode which they have not personally experienced. However, it is unknown how strongly the neural patterns elicited by imagining specific episodes resemble the neural states elicited during the original encoding of those episodes. In the current study, using fMRI and a natural communication task, we traced how neural patterns associated with specific scenes depicted in a movie are encoded, verbally recalled, and then transferred to a group of naive listeners who construct the scenes of the movie in their imagination. By comparing neural patterns across the three conditions, we report, for the first time, that event-specific neural patterns are observed in the default mode network (DMN) and shared across the encoding, reinstatement (spoken recall), and new construction (imagination) of the same real-life episode. This study uncovers the intimate correspondences between memory encoding and imagination, and highlights the essential role that our common language plays in the process of transmitting one's experiences to other brains.", u'/content/early/2016/10/16/081208', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Princeton Neuroscience Institute and Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ,;', u'Department of Psychology, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, 94305, USA.']]
