[u'Structurally distinct oligomers of islet amyloid polypeptide mediate toxic and non-toxic membrane poration', ['Melissa Birol', 'Sunil Kumar', 'Elizabeth Rhoades', 'Andrew D Miranker'], u'December 18, 2016.', u"Peptide mediated gain-of-toxic function is central to pathology in diseases such as Alzheimer's and diabetes. Cytotoxicity has long been correlated with self-assembly of the peptides into membrane-associated oligomers. The relationship of such species to membrane poration and the nature of poration's effects on toxicity remain elusive. Here, we focus on islet amyloid polypeptide (IAPP), a hormone associated with \u03b2-cell loss in diabetics. Newly developed membrane leakage and diluted-FRET methods enable structure-function inquiry to focus on large N, homooligomers. Our results not only show the coexistence of two mechanisms of poration, but reveal that only one is cytotoxic. At no point do the porating conformations of IAPP match those of aqueous prepared amyloid. Membrane associated oligomers are internally dynamic and grow in discrete steps consistent with liquid-like fusion. Toxic permeation can be localized to mitochondria using a structure specific-ligand, illuminating a strategy for small molecule development applicable to partially ordered proteins.", u'/content/early/2016/12/18/095158', [], [u'Yale University, University of Pennsylvania;', u'New York University;', u'University of Pennsylvania;', u'Yale University']]
[u'GeNNet: An Integrated Platform for Unifying Scientific Workflow Management and Graph Databases for Transcriptome Data Analysis', ['Raquel L. Costa', 'Luiz Gadelha', 'Marcelo Ribeiro-Alves', 'Fabio Porto'], u'December 18, 2016.', u'Background: There are many steps in analyzing transcriptome data, from the acquisition of raw data to the selection of a subset of representative genes that explain a scientific hypothesis. The data produced may additionally be integrated with other biological databases, such as Protein-Protein Interactions and annotations. However, the results of these analyses remain fragmented, imposing difficulties, either for posterior inspection of results, or for meta-analysis by the incorporation of new related data. Integrating databases and tools into scientific workflows, orchestrating their execution, and managing the resulting data and its respective metadata are challenging tasks. Running in-silico experiments to structure and compose the information as needed for analysis is a daunting task. Different programs may need to be applied and different files are produced during the experiment cycle. In this context, the availability of a platform supporting experiment execution is paramount.  Results: We present GeNNet, an integrated transcriptome analysis platform that unifies scientific workflows with graph databases for selecting relevant genes according to the evaluated biological systems. GeNNet includes pre-loaded biological data, pre-processes raw microarray data and conducts a series of analyses including normalization, differential expression inference, clusterization and geneset enrichment analysis. To demonstrate the features of GeNNet, we performed case studies with data retrieved from GEO, particularly using a single-factor experiment. As a result, we obtained differentially expressed genes for which biological functions were analyzed. The results are integrated into GeNNet-DB, a database about genes, clusters, experiments and their properties and relationships. The resulting graph database is explored with queries that demonstrate the expressiveness of this data model for reasoning about gene regulatory networks.  Conclusions: GeNNet is the first platform to integrate the analytical process of transcriptome data with graph database. It provides a comprehensive set of tools that would otherwise be challenging for non-expert users to install and use. Developers as well can add new functionality to each component of GeNNet. The resulting data allows for testing previous hypotheses about an experiment as well as exploring new ones through the interactive graph database environment. It enables the analysis of different data on humans, rhesus, mice and rat coming from Affymetrix platforms.', u'/content/early/2016/12/18/095257', [], [u'INCA;', u'LNCC;', u'Fiocruz']]
[u'FerriTag: A Genetically-Encoded Inducible Tag for Correlative Light-Electron Microscopy', ['Nicholas I Clarke', 'Stephen J Royle'], u'December 18, 2016.', u'A current challenge is to develop tags to precisely visualize proteins in cells by light and electron microscopy. Here, we introduce FerriTag, a genetically-encoded chemically-inducible tag for correlative light-electron microscopy (CLEM). FerriTag is a fluorescent recombinant electron-dense ferritin particle that can be attached to a protein-of-interest using rapamycin-induced heterodimerization. We demonstrate the utility of FerriTag for CLEM by labeling proteins associated with various intracellular structures including mitochondria, plasma membrane, and clathrin-coated pits and vesicles. FerriTagging has a high signal-to-noise ratio and a labeling resolution of 10 \xb1 5 nm. We demonstrate how FerriTagging allows nanoscale mapping of protein location relative to a subcellular structure, and use it to detail the distribution of huntingtin-interacting protein 1 related (HIP1R) in clathrin-coated pits.', u'/content/early/2016/12/18/095208', [], [u'University of Warwick']]
[u'Systematic assessment of multi-gene predictors of pan-cancer cell line sensitivity to drugs exploiting gene expression data', ['Linh Nguyen', 'Cuong Dang', 'Pedro Ballester'], u'December 18, 2016.', u'Selected gene mutations are routinely used to guide the selection of cancer drugs for a given patient tumour. Large pharmacogenomic data sets were introduced to discover more of these single-gene markers of drug sensitivity. Very recently, machine learning regression has been used to investigate how well cancer cell line sensitivity to drugs is predicted depending on the type of molecular profile. The latter has revealed that gene expression data is the most predictive profile in the pan-cancer setting. However, no study to date has exploited GDSC data to systematically compare the performance of machine learning models based on multi-gene expression data against that of widely-used single-gene markers based on genomics data. \nHere we present this systematic comparison using Random Forest (RF) classifiers exploiting the expression levels of 13,321 genes and an average of 501 tested cell lines per drug. To account for time-dependent batch effects in IC50 measurements, we employ independent test sets generated with more recent GDSC data than that used to train the predictors and show that this is a more realistic validation than K-fold cross-validation. Across 127 GDSC drugs, our results show that the single-gene markers unveiled by the MANOVA analysis tend to achieve higher precision than these RF-based multi-gene models, at the cost of generally having a poor recall (i.e. correctly detecting only a small part of the cell lines sensitive to the drug). Regarding overall classification performance, about two thirds of the drugs are better predicted by multi-gene RF classifiers. Among the drugs with the most predictive of these models, we found pyrimethamine, sunitinib and 17-AAG.', u'/content/early/2016/12/18/095224', [], [u'INSERM']]
[u'Deep sequencing of natural and experimental populations of Drosophila melanogaster reveals biases in the spectrum of new mutations', ['Zoe June Assaf', 'Susanne Tilk', 'Jane Park', 'Mark L Siegal', 'Dmitri Petrov'], u'December 18, 2016.', u'Mutations provide the raw material of evolution, and thus our ability to study evolution depends fundamentally on whether we have precise measure- ments of mutational rates and patterns. Here we explore the rates and patterns of mutations using i) de novo mutations from Drosophila melanogaster mutation accumulation lines and ii) polymorphisms segregating at extremely low frequencies. The first, mutation accumulation (MA) lines, are the product of maintaining flies in tiny populations for many generations, therefore rendering natural selection ineffective and allowing new mutations to accrue in the genome. In addition to generating a novel dataset of sequenced MA lines, we perform a meta-analysis of all published MA studies in D. melanogaster, which allows more precise estimates of mutational patterns across the genome. In the second half of this work, we identify polymorphisms segregating at extremely low frequencies using several publicly available population genomic data sets from natural populations of D. melanogaster. Extremely rare polymorphisms are difficult to detect with high confidence due to the problem of distinguish- ing them from sequencing error, however a dataset of true rare polymorphisms would allow the quantification of mutational patterns. This is due to the fact that rare polymorphisms, much like de novo mutations, are on average younger and also relatively unaffected by the filter of natural selection. We identify a high quality set of \u223c70,000 rare polymorphisms, fully validated with resequencing, and use this dataset to measure mutational patterns in the genome. This includes identifying a high rate of multi-nucleotide mutation events at both short (\u223c5bp) and long (\u223c1kb) genomic distances, showing that mutation drives GC content lower in already GC-poor regions, and finding that the context-dependency of the mutation spectrum predicts long-term evolutionary patterns at four-fold synonymous sites. We also show that de novo mutations from independent mutation accumulation experiments display similar patterns of single nucleotide mutation, and match well the patterns of mutation found in natural populations.', u'/content/early/2016/12/18/095182', [], [u'Stanford University;', u'New York University']]
[u'Active Vertex Model for Cell-Resolution Description of Epithelial Tissue Mechanics', ['Daniel L Barton', 'Silke Henkes', 'Cornelis J Weijer', 'Rastko Sknepnek'], u'December 18, 2016.', u'We introduce an Active Vertex Model (AVM) for cell-resolution studies of the mechanics of confluent epithelial\n tissues consisting of tens of thousands of cells, with a level of detail inaccessible to similar methods. The\n AVM combines the Vertex Model for confluent epithelial tissues with active matter dynamics. This introduces a natural\n description of the cell motion and accounts for motion patterns observed on multiple scales. Furthermore, cell contacts\n are generated dynamically from positions of cell centres. This not only enables efficient numerical implementation,\n but provides a natural description of the T1 transition events responsible for local tissue rearrangements. The AVM\n also includes cell alignment, cell-specific mechanical properties, cell growth, division and apoptosis. In addition,\n the AVM introduces a flexible, dynamically changing boundary of the epithelial sheet allowing for studies of phenomena\n such as the fingering instability or wound healing. We illustrate these capabilities with a number of case studies.', u'/content/early/2016/12/18/095133', [u'Biophysics'], [u'University of Dundee;', u'University of Aberdeen']]
[u'DNA damage response decreases during induced pluripotent and embryonic stem cell differentiation', ['Kalpana Mujoo', 'Raj K Pandita', 'Anjina Tiwari', 'Vijay Charaka', 'Sharmistha Chakraborti', 'Walter Hittelman', 'Nobuo Horikoshi', 'Clayton Hunt', 'KumKum Khanna', 'Alexander Kots', 'Brian Butler', 'Ferid Murad', 'Tej K Pandita'], u'December 18, 2016.', u'Genomic integrity is critical for preservation of stem cell function and is, maintained through a robust DNA damage response (DDR) with systemized DNA DSB repair by either the non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) pathway or the homologous recombination (HR) pathway. To examine DDR during stem cell differentiation, human embryonic (hES) and induced pluripotent stem (IPS) cells were exposed to DNA damaging agents and DNA damage signaling/repair measured. Differentiated cells displayed a higher frequency of residual DNA damage, chromosomal aberrations, cells with delayed \u03b3-H2AX foci disappearance and a reduced number of RAD51 foci. Factors impacting DNA DSB repair by HR formed reduced foci in differentiated cells. The reduction in repairosome foci formation after DNA damage was not due to changes in HR protein levels, which were unchanged by differentiation. Differentiated cells also displayed a higher frequency of stalled DNA replication forks and decreased firing of new replication origins from transient inhibition of DNA synthesis by hydroxyurea treatment. In addition, we observed that differentiated cells exhibit a higher frequency of R-loops. A similar decline in DDR was observed as early stage mouse astrocytes differentiated into later stage astrocytes.  Our studies thus suggest that DSB repair by homologous recombination is increasingly impaired during stem cell differentiation while the NHEJ pathway is minimally altered.', u'/content/early/2016/12/18/094938', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'THMRI;', u'MDACC;', u'QIMR;', u'GWU']]
[u'New Insights into the Dynamics of Swarming Bacteria: A Theoretical Study', ['David Hansmann', 'Guido Fier', 'Ruben Carlos Buceta'], u'December 18, 2016.', u'In the present work we simulate the basic two-dimensional dynamics of swarming E. coli bacteria on the surface of a moderately soft agar plate. Individual bacteria are modelled by self-propelled ridged bodies (agents), which interact with each other only through inelastic collision and with the highly viscous environment through damping forces. The motion of single agents is modelled closely corresponding to the behaviour of swimming bacteria. The dynamics of the model were adjusted to reproduce the experimental measurements of swimming E. coli K-12. Accordingly, simulations with loosely packed agents (\u03c1\u22480) show typical run-and-tumble statistics. In contrast, simulations with densely packed agents (\u03c1\u22480.3-0.7) are dominated by interactions (collisions) between agents which lead to the emergence of swarming behaviour. In addition, we model the motion of single agents on the base of modified run-and-tumble dynamics, where the bacteria do not turn actively during the tumble. We show that simulations with densely packed modified agents lead as well the emergence of swarming behaviour, if rotational diffusion is considered.', u'/content/early/2016/12/18/095141', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Departamento de Fisica, Universidad Nacional de Mar del Plata;', u'Instituto de Investigaciones Fisicas de Mar del Plata (IFIMAR)']]
