[u'Rapid metagenomic next-generation sequencing during an investigation of hospital-acquired human parainfluenza virus 3 infections', ['Alex Greninger', 'Danielle M Zerr', 'Xuan Qin', 'Amanda L Adler', 'Janet A Englund', 'Keith R Jerome'], u'September 10, 2016.', u"Metagenomic next-generation sequencing (mNGS) is increasingly used for the unbiased detection of viruses, bacteria, fungi, and eukaryotic parasites in clinical samples.  Whole genome sequencing (WGS) of clinical bacterial isolates has been shown to inform hospital infection prevention practices, but the use of this technology during potential respiratory virus outbreaks has not been taken advantage of.  Here, we report on the use of mNGS to inform the real-time infection prevention response to a cluster of hospital-acquired human parainfluenza 3 virus (HPIV3) infections at a children's hospital.  Isolates from 3 patients with hospital-acquired HPIV3 identified over a 12-day period on a general medical unit and 10 temporally-associated isolates from patients with community-acquired of HPIV3 were analyzed.  Our sample-to-sequencer time was <24 hours while our sample-to-answer turn-around time was <60 hours with a hands-on time of approximately 6 hours.  Eight (2 case isolates and 6 control isolates) of 13 samples had sufficient sequencing coverage to yield whole genomes for HPIV3, while 10 (2 cases and 8 controls) of 13 samples gave partial genomes and all 13 samples had >1 read to HPIV3.  Phylogenetic clustering revealed the presence of identical HPIV3 genomic sequence in the two of the cases with hospital-acquired infection, consistent with the concern for recent transmission within the medical unit.  Adequate sequence coverage was not recovered for the third case.  This work demonstrates the promise of mNGS to provide actionable information for infection control in addition to microbial detection.", u'/content/early/2016/09/10/074500', [], [u'UW;', u'University of Washington']]
[u'Genome-wide reconstruction of complex structural variants using read clouds', ['Noah Spies', 'Ziming Weng', 'Alex Bishara', 'Jennifer McDaniel', 'David Catoe', 'Justin M Zook', 'Marc Salit', 'Robert B West', 'Serafim Batzoglou', 'Arend Sidow'], u'September 10, 2016.', u'Recently developed methods that utilize partitioning of long genomic DNA fragments, and barcoding of shorter fragments derived from them, have succeeded in retaining long-range information in short sequencing reads. These so-called read cloud approaches represent a powerful, accurate, and cost-effective alternative to single-molecule long-read sequencing. We developed software, GROC-SVs, that takes advantage of read clouds for structural variant detection and assembly. We apply the method to two 10x Genomics data sets, one chromothriptic sarcoma with several spatially separated samples, and one breast cancer cell line, all Illumina-sequenced to high coverage. Comparison to short-fragment data from the same samples, and validation by mate-pair data from a subset of the sarcoma samples, demonstrate substantial improvement in specificity of breakpoint detection compared to short-fragment sequencing, at comparable sensitivity, and vice versa. The embedded long-range information also facilitates sequence assembly of a large fraction of the breakpoints; importantly, consecutive breakpoints that are closer than the average length of the input DNA molecules can be assembled together and their order and arrangement reconstructed, with some events exhibiting remarkable complexity. These features facilitated an analysis of the structural evolution of the sarcoma. In the chromothripsis, rearrangements occurred before copy number amplifications, and using the phylogenetic tree built from point mutation data we show that single nucleotide variants and structural variants are not correlated. We predict significant future advances in structural variant science using 10x data analyzed with GROC-SVs and other read cloud-specific methods.', u'/content/early/2016/09/10/074518', [], [u'NIST/Stanford University;', u'Stanford University School of Medicine;', u'Stanford University;', u'National Institute of Standards and Technology']]
[u'Simulation model for dynamics of three types of annual plants', ['Andrzej Pekalski'], u'September 10, 2016.', u"A Monte Carlo type model describing dynamics of three pairs of annual plants living\nin a homogeneous habitat is presented and discussed. Each plant follows its own\nhistory with growing, fecundity and survival chances determined individually as\nfunctions of the plant's condition and environment. The three plants - Valerianella locusta, Mysotis ramosissima and Cerastium semidecandrum differ\nby the weight of their seeds, which in the model determines the competition\npreference. Heavier seeds have a better chance for  germination from a\nsite containing seeds of  different plants. Better colonisers produce more seeds and\ndisperse them over a larger distance. I show that without absolute asymmetry in the impact effects between better competitors and better colonisers and in a spatially and temporarily homogeneous habitat, coexistence of species is possible, however only in a limited time. This is different from statements coming from models using mean-field type methods. I demonstrate also that in a system of two species clustering of plants of the same type are more frequent. From the calculated survival chances of seedlings and adult plants it follows that elimination of plants occur mostly at the early stages of the plants life cycle, which agrees with the field data.\n I  show that this \ncompetition/colonisation trade-off model is sufficient to maintain coexistence and I\ndetermine the \nconditions for dominance of one type of plants.I show that the time of extinction of the weaker species goes down with increasing observation time as a power function with the exponent independent of the type of plants.", u'/content/early/2016/09/10/074393', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Wroclaw']]
[u'A phenomenological spatial model for macro-ecological patterns in species-rich ecosystems', ['Sandro Azaele', 'Fabio Peruzzo'], u'September 10, 2016.', u'Over the last few decades, ecologists have come to appreciate that key ecological patterns, which describe ecological communities at relatively large spatial scales, are not only scale dependent, but also intimately intertwined. The relative abundance of species, which informs us about the commonness and rarity of species, changes its shape from small to large spatial scales. The average number of species as a function of area has a steep initial increase, followed by decreasing slopes at large scales. Finally, if we find a species in a given location, it is more likely we find an individual of the same species close-by, rather than farther apart. Such spatial turnover depends on the geographical distribution of species, which often are spatially aggregated. This reverberates on the abundances as well as the richness of species within a region, but so far it has been difficult to quantify such relationships.\nWithin a neutral framework, which considers all individuals competitively equivalent, we introduce a spatial stochastic model, which phenomenologically accounts for birth, death, immigration and local dispersal of individuals. We calculate the pair correlation function, which encapsulates spatial turnover, and the conditional probability to find a species with a certain population within a given circular area. Also, we calculate the macro-ecological patterns, which we have referred to above, and compare the analytical formulae with the numerical integration of the model. Finally, we contrast the model predictions with the empirical data for two lowland tropical forest inventories, showing always a good agreement.', u'/content/early/2016/09/10/074336', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Leeds']]
[u'MathIOmica: An Integrative Platform for Dynamic Omics', ['George Mias', 'Tahir Yusufaly', 'Raeuf Roushangar', 'Lavida R.K. Brooks', 'Vikas Vikram Singh', 'Christina Christou'], u'September 10, 2016.', u'Multiple omics data are rapidly becoming available, necessitating the use of new methods to integrate different technologies and interpret the results arising from multimodal assaying. The MathIOmica package for Mathematica provides one of the first extensive introductions to the use of the Wolfram Language to tackle such problems in bioinformatics. The package particularly addresses the necessity to integrate multiple omics information arising from dynamic profiling in a personalized medicine approach. It provides multiple tools to facilitate bioinformatics analysis, including importing data, annotating datasets, tracking missing values, normalizing data, clustering and visualizing the classification of data, carrying out annotation and enumeration of ontology memberships and pathway analysis. We anticipate MathIOmica to not only help in the creation of new bioinformatics tools, but also in promoting interdisciplinary investigations, particularly from researchers in mathematical, physical science and engineering fields transitioning into genomics, bioinformatics and omics data integration.', u'/content/early/2016/09/10/074260', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Michigan State University;', u'University of Southern California;', u'Mercy Cancer Center, Department of Radiation Oncology, Mason City, IA']]
[u'Close genetic relationships between a spousal pair with autism-affected children and high minor allele content in cases in autism-associated SNPs', ['Zuobin Zhu', 'Xitong Lu', 'Dejian Yuan', 'Shi Huang'], u'September 10, 2016.', u'Parents of children affected with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) often have mild forms of autistic-like characteristics. Past studies have focused on searching for individual genetic risk loci of ASD. Here we studied the overall properties of the genomes of ASD trios by using previously published genome-wide data for common SNPs. The pairwise genetic distance (PGD) between a spousal pair with ASD-affected children was found smaller than that of a random pair selected among the spouses in the ASD trios, and spousal relatedness correlated with severe forms of ASD. Furthermore, for a set of 970 ASD associated SNPs, cases showed higher homozygous minor allele content than parents. These results indicate new genetic elements in the broad phenotypes of parents with ASD-affected offspring and in ASD pathogenesis.', u'/content/early/2016/09/10/073452', [u'Genomics'], [u'Xuzhou Medical University;', u'Central South University']]
[u'Properties of compostite feedback-feedforward pulse generating motifs.', ['Bharat Ravi Iyengar'], u'September 10, 2016.', u'Negative feedbacks and incoherent feedforward loops are known to give rise to a pulse in response to a step change in the input. In this article, I present a study of composite motifs made of coupled feedback and feedforward loops, acting via different regulatory mechanisms. In these motifs, the effect of input and output on the controller is realized via either an AND-gate or an OR-gate. Using a simplistic model of gene expression and a common parameter set, I have studied the effect of global parameter variation on the dynamic and steady-state properties of different motifs, in response to a step change in the input. These metrics include steady state gain, response time, overshoot, peak time and peak duration. For the motifs with a negative feedback component, it can be seen that AND-gated motifs show a "feedforward-like" property whereas the OR-gated motifs show a "feedback-like" property. Motifs with a positive feedback component show hypersensitivity of gain, to parameters. Overshoot correlates negatively with peak time whereas peak duration correlates concavely with peak time, a property that is also observed for uncoupled feedback and feedforward motifs. This indicates that this relationship between overshoot, peak duration and peak time, seems to be a universal property of pulse-generating motifs.', u'/content/early/2016/09/10/074377', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'CSIR-National Chemical Laboratory']]
[u'A Numerus Population Viability and Harvesting Analyses Web App', ['Wayne Getz', 'Richard Salter', 'Colin Carlson', 'Andrew Lyons', 'Dana Paige Seidel'], u'September 10, 2016.', u'Population viability analysis (PVA) is used to assess the probability that a biological population will persist for a specified period of time. Such models are typically cast as Markov processes that may include age, stage, sex and metapopulation structures, density-dependence and ecological interaction processes.  They may also include harvesting, stocking, and thresholds that trigger interventions. Here we present Numerus PVA, which is a web app that includes extensible user-selected options. Specifically, Numerus PVA allows for the specification of one to ten age classes, one or two sexes, single population or metapopulation configurations with 2 or 3 subpopulations, as well as density-dependent settings for inducing region-specific carrying capacities. Movement among subpopulations can be influenced by age, metapopulation connectivity, and attractivity of regions based on the relative fitness of the youngest age classes in each region. Simulations can be carried out deterministically or stochastically, with a user-specified combination of demographic and environmental processes. Numerus PVA is freely available at http://www.numerusinc.com/webapps/pva for running directly on any browser and device. Numerus PVA is easily modified by users familiar with the NovaModeler Software Platform.', u'/content/early/2016/09/10/074492', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of California at Berkeley;', u'Oberlin College']]
