[u'Extensive genetic diversity among populations of the malaria mosquito Anopheles moucheti revealed by population genomics', ['Caroline Fouet', 'Colince Kamdem', 'Stephanie Gamez', 'Bradley J White'], u'August 6, 2016.', u'Background: Recent intensive efforts to control malaria in African countries expose vector populations to additional adaptive challenges. The main malaria mosquitoes of the continent display an array of adaptive strategies to cope with such challenges. The development of genomic resources will empower genetic studies that are crucial to understand the evolutionary history and adaptive potential of these vectors. \nMethodology/Principal findings: Here we constructed double-digest Restriction Associated DNA (ddRAD) libraries and generated 6461 Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) that we used to explore the population structure and demographic history of wild-caught Anopheles moucheti from Cameroon. The genome-wide distribution of allelic frequencies among sampled populations best fitted that of an old population at equilibrium, characterized by a weak genetic structure and extensive genetic diversity, presumably due to a large long term effective population size. In contrast to other important African malaria vectors, polymorphic chromosomal inversions play little role in the genome architecture and evolutionary adaptation of An. moucheti. \nConclusions/Significance: Our study provides the first investigation of the genetic structure and diversity in An. moucheti at the genomic scale. Despite a weak genetic structure and absence of adaptive divergence, the adaptive potential of this mosquito remains significant owing to a great diversity and standing genetic variation that can be used to face current vector control measures and other rapid anthropogenic and environmental changes.', u'/content/early/2016/08/06/068247', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University o California Riverside;', u'University of California Riverside']]
[u'Large-scale multivariate activation states of the human brain', ['Richard H Chen', 'Takuya Ito', 'Kaustubh R Kulkarni', 'Michael W Cole'], u'August 6, 2016.', u'Much of our lives are spent in unconstrained rest states, yet cognitive brain processes are primarily investigated experimentally using task-constrained states. It may be possible to utilize the insights gained from experimental control of task processes as reference points for investigating unconstrained rest. To facilitate comparison of rest and task functional MRI (fMRI) data we focused on activation amplitude patterns, commonly used for task but not rest analyses. During rest, we identified spontaneous changes in temporally extended whole-brain activation pattern states. This revealed a hierarchical organization of rest states. The top consisted of two competing states consistent with previously identified "task-positive" and "task-negative" activation patterns. These states were composed of a variety of more specific states that repeated over time and across individuals. In contrast to the classic view that rest consists of only task-negative states, task-positive states were present over 40% of the time while individuals "rested." This suggests individuals conduct extensive task-oriented mental activity during rest. Consistent with this interpretation, classifier decoding of rest brain states based on thousands of task fMRI studies identified a variety of matched active tasks. Further, an analysis of task data revealed a similar hierarchical structure of brain states. Together these results suggest brain activation dynamics form a general hierarchy across both task and rest, with a small number of dominant general states reflecting basic modes of brain function along with a variety of specific states likely reflecting the rich variety of cognitive states experienced in everyday life.', u'/content/early/2016/08/06/068221', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Rutgers University']]
[u'A FLIC motility assay reveals myosin-6 coordination limited by actin filament buckling', ['Agata K Krenc', 'Jagoda J Rokicka', 'Ronald S Rock'], u'August 6, 2016.', u'Teams of myosin motors carry out intracellular transport and contract the actin cytoskeleton. To fully understand the behavior of multi-myosin ensembles we need to know the properties of individual myosins and the mode of interaction between them. Current models of the interactions within the myosin complex treat the actin filament as a stiff rod, not contributing to the regulation of collective myosin dynamics. Here, we present data suggesting that force transduction through the actin filament is an important element of interaction within myosin-6 ensembles in vitro. Multiple myosin-6s coordinate their steps if they are separated by a short (and therefore high-force bearing) segment of actin. The measurements were performed using Fluorescence Interference Contrast Microscopy (FLIC) to measure small changes in the height of fluorescently labeled actin. Using FLIC, we assign the positions of myosins in a gliding filament assay geometry and measure their attachment time to actin. We also identify actin segments that are buckled or under tension. We show that myosin-6 holds actin about 10 nm above the surface. However, due to asynchronous myosin stepping, frequent buckles up to about 60 nm high appear. The buckle lifetime decreases as the distance between the myosin- 6s is reduced, a sign of inter-motor coordination. Our data are consistent with coordinated stepping of closely spaced myosins, but uncoordinated motility with widely separated myosins where buckles can form. These features would be expected to operate on myosins in the cell, where motor spacing may vary considerably depending on the target organelle.', u'/content/early/2016/08/06/068163', [u'Biophysics'], [u'University of Chicago']]
[u'Cytoarchitectonic similarity is a wiring principle of the human connectome', ['Alexandros Goulas', 'Rene Werner', 'Sarah F Beul', 'Dennis Saering', 'Martijn van den Heuvel', 'Lazaros C Triarhou', 'Claus C Hilgetag'], u'August 6, 2016.', u'Understanding the wiring diagram of the human cerebral cortex is a fundamental challenge in neuroscience. Several topological properties of this intricate network have been uncovered, yet elemental aspects of its organization  remain elusive. Here we explore wiring principles of the human connectome by examining which structural traits of cortical regions, particularly their characteristic cytoarchitecture and thickness, relate to the existence and strength of inter-regional connections. To this end, we use the comprehensive data from the classic work of von Economo and Koskinas in conjuction with diffusion data from the Human Connectome Project. Our results reveal a prominent role of the cytoarchitectonic similarity of upper cortical layers for predicting the existence  of connections. In contrast, cortical thickness similarity was not systematically related to the existence of connections. Our findings are in line with recent findings in non-human mammalian cerebral cortices, suggesting that the cytoarchitectonic similarity of cortical regions underlies an overarching wiring principle of the mammalian cerebral cortex. The present results invite hypotheses about potentially evolutionary conserved neurobiological mechanisms that give rise to the observed relation of cytoarchitecture and connectivity in the human cerebral cortex.', u'/content/early/2016/08/06/068254', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Department of Computational Neuroscience, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf;', u'rain Center Rudolf Magnus, Department of Psychiatry, University Medical Center Utrecht;', u'Laboratory of Theoretical and Applied Neuroscience, University of Macedonia']]
[u'Chromosomal inversions facilitate chromosome-scale evolution in Anopheles funestus', ['Caroline Fouet', 'Colince Kamdem', 'Bradley J White'], u'August 6, 2016.', u'Understanding the neutral and selective forces that shape the genetic diversity along chromosomes is one of the central goals of evolutionary genomics. Contrary to expectations, combined actions of recombination and selection can result in reduced diversity along an entire chromosome, but this hypothesis still lacks strong empirical supports. Here we show that nucleotide diversity is specific to chromosome arms in the African malaria mosquito Anopheles funestus. We analysed the population history and genetic diversity in 132 wild-caught individuals representing two diverging ecotypes using RADseq markers. Genome scans revealed that genetic differentiation between ecotypes is accumulated within segregating polymorphic chromosomal inversions. Importantly, the presence of multiple overlapping inversions is associated with strong reductions in diversity throughout entire chromosome arms. The depression in genetic diversity is correlated to the frequency of inversions, being stronger in forest populations that are fixed for several adaptive inversions. Our results emphasize the role of polymorphic inversions in the genome architecture of adaptive speciation in An. funestus and provide a case of chromosome-scale evolution associated with the interplay between population demography, selection and recombination.', u'/content/early/2016/08/06/068205', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of California Riverside']]
[u'How the AFF1/4 scaffold recruits the elongation factor ELL2 to promote HIV-1 proviral transcription', ['Shiqian Qi', 'Zichong Li', 'Ursula Schulze-Gahmen', 'Goran Stjepanovic', 'Qiang Zhou', 'James Hurley'], u'August 6, 2016.', u'The intrinsically disordered scaffold proteins AFF1/4 and the transcription elongation factors ELL1/2 are core components of the superelongation complex required for HIV-1 proviral transcription. We determined the 2.0-\xc5 resolution crystal structure of the human ELL2 C-terminal domain bound to its 50-residue binding site on AFF4, the ELLBow. The ELL2 domain has the same arch-shaped fold as the tight junction protein occludin. The ELLBow consists of an N-terminal helix followed by an extended hairpin that we refer to as the elbow joint, and occupies most of the concave surface of ELL2. This surface is important for the ability of ELL2 to promote HIV-1 Tat-mediated proviral transcription. The AFF4-ELL2 interface is imperfectly packed, leaving a cavity suggestive of a potential binding site for transcription-promoting small molecules.', u'/content/early/2016/08/06/068262', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'State Key Laboratory of Biotherapy, West China Hospital, Sichuan University;', u'UC Berkeley']]
[u'Genomic signatures of introgression at late stages of speciation in a malaria mosquito', ['Colince Kamdem', 'Caroline Fouet', 'Stephanie Gamez', 'Bradley J White'], u'August 6, 2016.', u'Hybridization plays a central role during the evolution of species boundaries, but the relative impact of gene flow on genomic divergence and vice versa remains largely unknown. The genome architecture of populations and emerging species exhibiting various levels of divergence along the speciation continuum should provide insights into the events that promote or prevent speciation. In this work, we have used a combination of population genomic approaches to examine the genomic signatures of hybridization between Anopheles nili sensu stricto and An. ovengensis, two malaria mosquitoes that have split ~3-Myr ago. Despite this substantial time since divergence, the two species hybridize extensively in nature, giving rise to a unique population of differentiated hybrids in contact zones. Using genomic clines and Bayesian models, we showed that signatures of introgression are widespread across the genome suggesting that recent hybridization between Anopheles nili sensu stricto and An. ovengensis involves multiple fitness traits and functional classes. Linkage Disequilibrium analyses allowed us to identified a block of 39 linked loci that segregated between hybrids and parental species and may harbour genes responsible for reproductive isolation. Our results demonstrate that genome-wide admixtures can persist in the face of species divergence over long periods of time during speciation due to increased gene flow at loci providing selective advantage.', u'/content/early/2016/08/06/068239', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of California Riverside;', u'UCR']]
[u'Rapid expansion of immune-related gene families in the house fly, Musca domestica', ['Timothy B. Sackton', 'Brian Lazzaro', 'Andrew Clark'], u'August 6, 2016.', u'The house fly, Musca domestica, occupies an unusual diversity of potentially septic niches among sequenced Dipteran insects and is a vector of numerous diseases of humans and livestock. In the present study, we apply whole-transcriptome sequencing to identify genes whose expression is regulated in adult flies by bacterial infection. We then combine the transcriptomic data with analysis of rates of gene duplication and loss to provide insight into the evolutionary dynamics of immune-related genes. Genes up-regulated after bacterial infection are biased toward being evolutionarily recent innovations, suggesting the recruitment of novel immune components in the M. domestica or ancestral Dipteran lineages. In addition, using new models of gene family evolution, we show that several different classes of immune-related genes, particularly those involved in either pathogen recognition or pathogen killing, are duplicating at a significantly accelerated rate on the M. domestica lineage relative to other Dipterans. Taken together, these results suggest that the M. domestica immune response includes an unusual diversity of genes, perhaps as a consequence of its lifestyle in septic environments.', u'/content/early/2016/08/06/068213', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Harvard University;', u'Cornell University']]
