[u'When local means local: Polygenic signatures of local adaptation within whitebark pine (Pinus albicaulis Engelm.) across the Lake Tahoe Basin, USA', ['Brandon M. Lind', 'Christopher J Friedline', 'Jill L. Wegrzyn', 'Patricia E. Maloney', 'Detlev R. Vogler', 'David B. Neale', 'Andrew J. Eckert'], u'May 31, 2016.', u'For populations exhibiting high levels of gene flow, the genetic architecture of fitness-related traits is expected to be polygenic and underlain by many small-effect loci that covary across a network of linked genomic regions. For most coniferous taxa, studies describing this architecture have been limited to single-locus approaches, possibly leaving the vast majority of the underlying genetic architecture undescribed. Even so, molecular investigations rarely search for patterns indicative of an underlying polygenic basis, despite prior expectations for this signal. Here, using a polygenic perspective, we employ single and multilocus analyses of genome-wide data (n = 116,231 SNPs) to describe the genetic architecture of adaptation within whitebark pine (Pinus albicaulis Engelm.) across the local extent of the environmentally heterogeneous Lake Tahoe Basin, USA. We show that despite highly shared genetic variation ( = 0.0069) there is strong evidence for polygenic adaptation to the rain shadow experienced across the eastern Sierra Nevada. Specifically, we find little evidence for large-effect loci and that the frequencies of loci associated with 4/5 phenotypes (mean = 236 SNPs), 18 environmental variables (mean = 99 SNPs), and those detected through genetic differentiation (n = 110 SNPs) exhibit significantly higher covariance than random SNPs. We also provide evidence that this covariance tracks environmental measures related to soil water availability through subtle allele frequency shifts across populations. Our results provide replicative support for theoretical expectations and highlight advantages of a polygenic perspective, as unremarkable loci when viewed from a single-locus perspective are noteworthy when viewed through a polygenic lens, particularly when considering protective measures such as conservation guidelines and restoration strategies.', u'/content/early/2016/05/31/056317', [], [u'Virginia Commonwealth University;', u'University of Connecticut;', u'University of California at Davis;', u'USDA Forest Service Pacific Southwest Research Station']]
[u'A Re-examination of the Role of AUXIN RESPONSE FACTOR 8 in Developmental Abnormalities Caused by the P1/HC-Pro Viral Suppressor of RNA Silencing', ['Sizolwenkosi Mlotshwa', 'Gail J. Pruss', 'John L. Macarthur', 'Jason W. Reed', 'Vicki Vance'], u'May 31, 2016.', u'Plant viral suppressors of RNA silencing induce developmental defects similar to those caused by mutations in genes involved in the microRNA (miRNA) pathway. These abnormalities were originally thought to reflect a pleiotropic impact of silencing suppressors on miRNA control of plant development. However, subsequent work with the P1/HC-Pro potyviral suppressor of silencing showed that global impairment of the miRNA pathway was not responsible for the phenotypical anomalies. More recently, developmental defects caused by a P1/HC-Pro transgene under control of the 35S promoter were attributed to moderate upregulation of AUXIN RESPONSE FACTOR 8 (ARF8), a target of miR167. The key piece of evidence in that work was that the developmental defects in the 35S-pro:P1/HC-Pro transgenic Arabidopsis were greatly alleviated in the F1 progeny of a cross with plants carrying the arf8-6 mutation. Arf8-6 is a SALK line T-DNA insertion mutant, a class of mutations prone to inducing transcriptional silencing of transgenes expressed from the 35S promoter. Here we report a re-investigation of the role of ARF8 in P1/HC-Pro-mediated developmental defects. We characterized the progeny of a cross between our 35S-pro:P1/HC-Pro transgenic Arabidopsis line and the same arf8-6 T-DNA insertion mutant used in the earlier study. The T-DNA mutation had little effect in the F1 generation, but almost all arf8-6/P1/HC-Pro progeny had lost the P1/HC-Pro phenotype in the F2 generation. However, this loss of phenotype was not correlated with the number of functional copies of the ARF8 gene. Instead, it reflected transcriptional silencing of the 35S-pro:P1/HC-Pro transgene, as evidenced by a pronounced decrease in P1/HC-Pro mRNA accompanied by the appearance of 35S promoter siRNAs. Furthermore, arf8-8, an independent loss-of-function point mutation, had no detectable effects on P1/HC-Pro phenotype in either the F1 or F2 generations. Together these data argue against the reported role of increased ARF8 expression in mediating developmental defects in P1/HC-Pro transgenic plants.', u'/content/early/2016/05/31/056366', [], [u'University of South Carolina;', u'University of North Carolina']]
[u'Transplanting as a means to enhance crop security of fodder beet', ['Edith N Khaembah', 'Warrick R Nelson'], u'May 31, 2016.', u'Fodder beet has become a popular winter feed for all stock classes in New Zealand. However, poor crop establishment frequently leads to either significant loss in yield, through below-target plant populations, weed competition, or crop failure. This study demonstrates that establishing the crop from transplants, common in the vegetable industry, is one way to achieve a uniform plant population and reduce weed competition through early establishment of canopy cover. The most significant effect of transplant establishment is that the target plant population is readily achieved.', u'/content/early/2016/05/31/056408', [], [u'The New Zealand Institute for Plant and Food Research Limited']]
[u'Centromeres of the yeast Komagataella phaffii (Pichia pastoris) have a simple inverted-repeat structure', ['Aisling Y Coughlan', 'Sara J Hanson', 'Kevin P Byrne', 'Kenneth H Wolfe'], u'May 31, 2016.', u'Centromere organization has evolved dramatically in one clade of fungi, the Saccharomycotina. These yeasts have lost the ability to make normal eukaryotic heterochromatin with histone H3K9 methylation, which is a major component of pericentromeric regions in other eukaryotes. Following this loss, several different types of centromere emerged, including two types of sequence-defined ("point") centromeres, and the epigenetically-defined "small regional" centromeres of Candida albicans. Here we report that centromeres of the methylotrophic yeast Komagataella phaffii (formerly called Pichia pastoris) are structurally-defined. Each of its four centromeres consists of a 2-kb inverted repeat (IR) flanking a 1-kb central core (mid) region. The four centromeres are unrelated in sequence. CenH3 (Cse4) binds strongly to the cores, with a decreasing gradient along the IRs. This mode of organization resembles Schizosaccharomyces pombe centromeres but is much more compact and lacks the extensive flanking heterochromatic otr repeats. Different isolates of K. phaffii show polymorphism for the orientation of the mid regions, due to recombination in the IRs. CEN4 is located within a 138-kb region that changes orientation during mating-type switching, but switching does not induce recombination of centromeric IRs. The existing genetic toolbox for K. phaffii should facilitate analysis of the relationship between the IRs and the establishment and maintenance of centromeres in this species.', u'/content/early/2016/05/31/056382', [], [u'University College Dublin']]
[u'Prediction of allosteric sites and mediating interactions through bond-to-bond propensities', ['Benjamin R. C. Amor', 'Michael T. Schaub', 'Sophia N. Yaliraki', 'Mauricio Barahona'], u'May 31, 2016.', u'Allosteric regulation is central to many biochemical processes. Allosteric sites provide a target to fine-tune protein activity, yet we lack computational methods to predict them. Here, we present an efficient graph-theoretical approach for identifying allosteric sites and the mediating interactions that connect them to the active site. Using an atomistic graph with edges weighted by covalent and non-covalent bond energies, we obtain a bond-to-bond propensity that quantifies the effect of instantaneous bond fluctuations propagating through the protein. We use this propensity to detect the sites and communication pathways most strongly linked to the active site, assessing their significance through quantile regression and comparison against a reference set of 100 generic proteins. We exemplify our method in detail with three well-studied allosteric proteins: caspase-1, CheY, and h-Ras, correctly predicting the location of the allosteric site and identifying key allosteric interactions. Consistent prediction of allosteric sites is then attained in a further set of 17 proteins known to exhibit allostery. Because our propensity measure runs in almost linear time, it offers a scalable approach to high-throughput searches for candidate allosteric sites.', u'/content/early/2016/05/31/056275', [], [u'Imperial College London']]
[u'The potato NLR immune receptor R3a does not contain non-canonical integrated domains', ['Artemis Giannakopoulou', 'Angela Chaparro-Garcia', 'Sophien Kamoun'], u'May 31, 2016.', u'A recent study by Kroj et al. (New Phytologist, 2016) surveyed nucleotide binding-leucine rich repeat (NLR) proteins from plant genomes for the presence of extraneous integrated domains that may serve as decoys or sensors for pathogen effectors. They reported that a FAM75 domain of unknown function occurs near the C-terminus of the potato late blight NLR protein R3a. Here, we investigated in detail the domain architecture of the R3a protein, its potato paralog R3b, and their tomato ortholog I2. We conclude that the R3a, R3b, and I2 proteins do not carry additional domains besides the classic NLR modules, and that the FAM75 domain match is likely a false positive among computationally predicted NLR-integrated domains.', u'/content/early/2016/05/31/056242', [], [u'The Sainsbury Laboratory']]
[u'Sequence Entropy and the Absolute Rate of Amino Acid Substitutions', ['Richard A Goldstein', 'David D Pollock'], u'May 31, 2016.', u'The evolution of model proteins under selection for thermodynamic stability suggests parallels between evolutionary behavior and chemical reaction kinetics. We developed a statistical mechanics theory of protein evolution by dividing amino acid interactions into site-specific and bath components, and show that substitutions between two amino acids occur when their site-specific contributions to stability are nearly identical. Fluctuating epistatic interactions drive stabilities into and out of these regions of near neutrality, with the time spent in the neutral region and thus the rate of substitution governed by physicochemical similarities between the amino acids.  We derive a theoretical framework for how site-specific stabilities are determined, and demonstrate that substitution rates and the magnitude of the evolutionary Stokes shift can be predicted from biophysics and the effect of sequence entropy alone. Population genetics underlays our analysis, but population size does not determine the absolute rate of amino acid substitutions.', u'/content/early/2016/05/31/056325', [], [u'University College London;', u'University of Colorado School of Medicine']]
[u'Particularity of \u201cUniversal resilience patterns in complex networks\u201d', ['Jean-Francois Arnoldi', 'Bart Haegeman', 'Tomas Revilla', 'Michel Loreau'], u'May 31, 2016.', u"In a recent Letter to Nature, Gao, Barzel and Barab&aacutesi describe an elegant procedure to reduce the dimensionality of complex dynamical networks, which they claim reveals \u201cuniversal patterns of network resilience\u201d, offering \u201cways to prevent the collapse of ecological, biological or economic systems, and guiding the design of technological systems resilient to both internal failures and environmental changes\u201d. However, Gao et al restrict their attention to systems for which all interactions between nodes are mutualistic. \nSince antagonism is ubiquitous in natural and social networks, we clarify why this stringent hypothesis is necessary and what happens when it is relaxed.\nBy analysing broad classes of competitive and predator-prey networks we provide novel insights into the underlying mechanisms at work in Gao et al's theory, and novel predictions for dynamical systems that are not purely mutualistic.", u'/content/early/2016/05/31/056218', [], [u'CNRS;', u'Biology Centre of the Academy of Sciences']]
[u'Significant competitive dominance in mid-latitude European plant communities', ['Jose A Capitan', 'Sara Cuenda', 'Alejandro Ordonez', 'David Alonso'], u'May 31, 2016.', u'Understanding the main determinants of species coexistence across space and time is a central question in ecology. However, ecologists still know little about the scales and conditions at which biotic interactions matter and their interplay with the environment to structure species assemblages. Here we develop ecological theory to analyze plant distribution and trait data across Europe and find that plant height clustering is related to evapotranspiration and gross primary productivity. Our analysis suggests competitive dominance as a plausible mechanism underlying community assembly patterns over continental scales. In particular, we find a clear signal of plant-to-plant competition in mid-latitude ecoregions, where conditions for growth (reflected in actual evapotranspiration rates and gross primary productivities) are optimal. Under severe conditions, either climate is too harsh and overrides the effect of competition or other interactions play a relevant role. Our approach bridges the gap between modern coexistence theory and large-scale species distribution data analysis.', u'/content/early/2016/05/31/056309', [], [u'Technical University of Madrid;', u'Universidad Autonoma de Madrid;', u'Aarhus University;', u'Spanish Council for Scientific Research']]
[u'RAFTS3: Rapid Alignment-Free Tool for Sequence Similarity Search', ['Ricardo A Vialle', 'Fabio O Pedrosa', 'Vinicius A Weiss', 'Dieval Guizelini', 'Juliana H Tibaes', 'Jeroniza N Marchaukoski', 'Emanuel M de Souza', 'Roberto T Raittz'], u'May 31, 2016.', u'Similarity search of a given protein sequence against a database is an essential task in genome analysis. Sequence alignment is the most used method to perform such analysis. Although this approach is efficient, the time required to perform searches against large databases is always a challenge. Alignment-free techniques offer alternatives to comparing sequences without the need of alignment. We developed RAFTS3, a fast protein similarity search tool that utilizes a filter step for candidate selection based on shared k-mers and a comparison measure using a binary matrix of co-occurrence of amino acid residues. RAFTS3 performed searches many times faster than those with BLASTp against large protein databases, such as NR, Pfam or UniRef, with a small loss of sensitivity depending on the similarity degree of the sequences. RAFTS3 is a new alternative for fast comparison of protein sequences, genome annotation and biological data mining. The source code and the standalone files for Windows and Linux platform are available at: https://sourceforge.net/projects/rafts3/', u'/content/early/2016/05/31/055269', [], [u'Programa de Pos-Graduacao em Bioinformatica, Universidade Federal do Parana, Curitiba, PR, Brasil']]
[u'Dopaminergic neurons modulate locomotion in Caenorhabditis elegans', ['Mohamed Abdelhack'], u'May 31, 2016.', u"Adaptation in the sensory-mechanical loop during locomotion is a powerful mechanism that allows organisms to survive in different conditions and environments. For example, humans can walk on earth gravity, but they switch to hopping on, for example, moon gravity. The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans also shows adaptability by employing thrashing behaviour in low viscosity media and crawling in high viscosity media. The mechanism that enables this adaptability is yet unknown. It has been attributed previously to neuro-modulation by dopamine and serotonin.\nThe aim of this study is to physiologically investigate the neuronal mechanisms of modulation of locomotion by dopamine. It unravels a new role for the dopaminergic mechanosensory neurons, which is sensing the mechanical impact of the environment. The significance of such characterization is improving our understanding of dopamine gait switching which gets impaired in Parkinson's disease.", u'/content/early/2016/05/31/056192', [], [u'Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology, Graduate University']]
[u'Kin Recognition in a Clonal Fish, Poecilia formosa', ['Amber Makowicz', 'Ralf Tiedemann', 'Rachel N Steele', 'Ingo Schlupp'], u'May 31, 2016.', u'Relatedness strongly influences social behaviors in a wide variety of species. For most species, the highest typical degree of relatedness is between full siblings with 50% shared genes. However, this is poorly understood in species with unusually high relatedness between individuals: clonal organisms. Although there has been some investigation into clonal invertebrates and yeast, nothing is known about kin selection in clonal vertebrates. We show that a clonal fish, the Amazon molly (Poecilia formosa), can distinguish between different clonal lineages, associating with genetically identical, sister clonals, and use multiple sensory modalities. Also, they scale their aggressive behaviors according to the relatedness to other females: they are more aggressive to non-related clones. Our results demonstrate that even in species with very small genetic differences between individuals, kin recognition can be adaptive. Their discriminatory abilities and regulation of costly behaviors provides a powerful example of natural selection in species with limited genetic diversity.', u'/content/early/2016/05/31/055848', [], [u'University of Konstanz;', u'University of Potsdam;', u'University of Oklahoma']]
[u'The Lair: A resource for exploratory analysis of published RNA-Seq data', ['Harold Pimentel', 'Pascal Sturmfels', 'Nicolas Bray', 'Pall Melsted', 'Lior Pachter'], u'May 31, 2016.', u'Increased emphasis on reproducibility of published research in the last few years has led to the large-scale archiving of sequencing data. While this data can, in theory, be used to reproduce results in papers, it is typically not easily usable in practice. We introduce a series of tools for processing and analyzing RNA-Seq data in the Short Read Archive, that together have allowed us to build an easily extendable resource for analysis of data underlying published papers. Our system makes the exploration of data easily accessible and usable without technical expertise. Our database and associated tools can be accessed at The Lair: http://pachterlab.github.io/lair', u'/content/early/2016/05/31/056200', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'UC Berkeley;', u'University of Michigan;', u'University of Iceland']]
[u'Large-scale trans-eQTLs affect hundreds of transcripts and mediate patterns of transcriptional co-regulation', ['Boel Brynedal', 'JinMyung Choi', 'Towfique Raj', 'Robert Bjornson', 'Barbara Stranger', 'Benjamin Neale', 'Benjamin Voight', 'Chris Cotsapas'], u'May 31, 2016.', u'Genetic variation affecting gene regulation is a driver of phenotypic differences between individuals and can be used to uncover how biological processes are organized in a cell. Although detecting cis-eQTLs is now routine, trans-eQTLs have proven more challenging to find due to the modest variance explained and the multiple testing burden when comparing millions of SNPs for association to thousands of transcripts. Here, we provide evidence for the existence of trans-eQTLs by looking for SNPs associated with the expression of multiple genes simultaneously. We find substantial evidence of trans-eQTLs, with an 1.8-fold enrichment in nominally significant markers in all three populations and significant overlap between results across the populations. These trans-eQTLs target the same genes and show the same direction of effect across populations. We define a high-confidence set of eight independent trans-eQTLs which are associated to multiple transcripts in all three populations, and affect the same targets in all three populations with the same direction of effect. We then show that target transcripts of trans-eQTLs encode proteins that interact more frequently than expected by chance, and are enriched for pathway annotations indicative of roles in basic cell homeostasis. Thus, we have demonstrated that trans-eQTLs can be accurately identified even in studies of limited sample size', u'/content/early/2016/05/31/056283', [u'Genetics'], [u'Karolinska Institutet;', u'Yale University School of Medicine;', u"Brigham and Women's Hospital;", u'Yale University;', u'University of Chicago;', u'Massachusetts General Hospital;', u'University of Pennsylvania']]
[u'Distinct combinations of variant ionotropic glutamate receptors mediate thermosensation and hygrosensation in Drosophila', ['Zachary A Knecht', 'Ana F Silbering', 'Lina Ni', 'Mason Klein', 'Gonzalo Budelli', 'Rati Bell', 'Liliane Abuin', 'Anggie J Ferrer', 'Aravinthan D.T. Samuel', 'Richard Benton', 'Paul Allen Garrity'], u'May 31, 2016.', u'Ionotropic Receptors (IRs) are a large subfamily of variant ionotropic glutamate receptors present across Protostomia. While these receptors are most extensively studied for their roles in chemosensory detection in insects, recent work has implicated two family members, IR21a and IR25a, in thermosensation in Drosophila. Here we characterize one of the most deeply conserved receptors, IR93a, and show that it is co-expressed and functions with IR21a and IR25a to mediate physiological and behavioral responses to cool temperatures. IR93a is also co-expressed with IR25a and a distinct receptor, IR40a, in a discrete population of sensory neurons in the sacculus, a multi-chambered pocket within the antenna. We demonstrate that this combination of receptors is important for neuronal responses to dry air and behavioral discrimination of humidity differences. Our results identify IR93a as a common component of molecularly and cellularly distinct IR pathways underlying thermosensation and hygrosensation in insects.', u'/content/early/2016/05/31/056267', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Brandeis University;', u'University of Lausanne;', u'University of Miami;', u'Harvard University']]
[u'Why are there so many independent origins of artemisinin resistance in malaria parasites?', ['Tim Anderson', 'Shalini Nair', 'Marina White', 'Ian Cheeseman', 'Standwell Nkhoma', 'Fatma Bilgic', 'Rose McGready', 'Elizabeth Ashley', 'Aung Pyae Phyo', 'Nicholas White', 'Francois Nosten'], u'May 31, 2016.', u'Multiple alleles at the kelch13 locus conferring artemisinin resistance (ART-R) are currently spreading through malaria parasite populations in Southeast Asia, providing a unique opportunity to directly observe an ongoing soft selective sweep, to investigate why resistance alleles have evolved multiple times and to determine fundamental population genetic parameters for Plasmodium. We sequenced the kelch13 gene (n=1,876), genotyped 75 flanking SNPs, and measured clearance rate (n=3,552) in parasite infections from Western Thailand (2001-2014). We describe 32 independent coding mutations: these included common mutations outside the kelch13 propeller region associated with significant reductions in clearance rate. Mutations were first observed in 2003 and rose to 90% by 2014, consistent with a selection coefficient of ~0.079. There was no change in diversity in flanking markers, but resistance allele diversity rose until 2012 and then dropped as one allele (C580Y) spread to high frequency. The rapid spread of C580Y suggests that the genomic signature may be considerably harder in the near future, and that retrospective studies may underestimate the complexity of selective sweeps. The frequency with which adaptive alleles arise is determined by the rate of mutation to generate beneficial alleles and the population size. Two factors drive this soft sweep:  (1) multiple amino-acid mutations in kelch13 can confer resistance providing a large mutational target: we estimate the target size is between 87 and 163bp. (2) The population mutation parameter (\u03b8=2Ne\u03bc) can be estimated from the frequency distribution of resistant alleles and is ~ 5.69, suggesting that short term effective population size is between 88 thousand and 1.2 million. This is 52 to 705-fold greater than Ne estimates based on fluctuation in allele frequencies, suggesting that we have previously underestimated the capacity for adaptive evolution in Plasmodium. Our central conclusions are that retrospective studies may underestimate the complexity of selective events, ART-R evolution is not limited by availability of mutations, and the Ne relevant for adaptation for malaria is considerably higher than previously estimated.', u'/content/early/2016/05/31/056291', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Texas Biomedical Research Institute;', u'Shoklo Malaria Research Unit/University of Oxford;', u'Mahidol University;', u'Shoklo Malaria Research Unit;', u'Mahidol University/University of Oxford;', u'Shoklo Malaria Research Unit/Mahidol University/University of Oxford']]
[u'The Effects of Migration and Assortative Mating on Admixture Linkage Disequilibrium', ['Noah Zaitlen', 'Scott Huntsman', 'Donglei Hu', 'Melissa Spear', 'Celeste Eng', 'Sam S Oh', 'Marquitta J White', 'Angel Mak', 'Adam Davis', 'Kelly Meade', 'Emerita Brigino-Buenaventura', 'Michael A LeNoir', 'Kirsten Bibbins-Domingo', 'Esteban G Burchard', 'Eran Halperin'], u'May 31, 2016.', u'Statistical models in medical and population genetics typically assume that individuals assort randomly in a population. While this simplifies model complexity, it contradicts an increasing body of evidence of non-random mating in human populations. Specifically, it has been  shown that assortative mating is significantly affected by   genomic ancestry. In this work we examine the effects of ancestry-assortative mating on the linkage disequilibrium between local ancestry tracks of individuals in an admixed population. To accomplish this, we develop an extension to the Wright-Fisher model that allows for ancestry based assortative mating. We show that ancestry-assortment perturbs the distribution of local ancestry linkage disequilibrium (LAD) and the variance of ancestry in a population as a function of the number of generations since admixture. This assortment effect can induce errors in demographic inference of admixed populations when methods assume random mating. We derive closed form formulae for LAD under an assortative-mating model with and without migration. We observe that LAD depends on the correlation of global ancestry of couples in each generation, the migration rate of each of the ancestral populations, the initial proportions of ancestral populations, and the number of generations since admixture. We also present the first evidence of ancestry-assortment in African Americans and examine LAD in simulated and real admixed population data of African Americans. We find that demographic inference under the assumption of random mating significantly underestimates the number of generations since admixture, and that accounting for assortative mating using the patterns of LAD results in estimates that more closely agrees with the historical narrative.', u'/content/early/2016/05/31/056168', [u'Genetics'], [u'UCSF, United States;', u'Children???s Hospital and Research Center Oakland, United States;', u'Kaiser Permanente, United States;', u'Bay Area Pediatrics, United States;', u'Tel Aviv University, United States']]
