[u'Evolution of copper resistance in the kiwifruit pathogen Pseudomonas syringae pv. actinidiae through acquisition of integrative conjugative elements and plasmids', ['Elena Colombi', 'Christina Straub', 'Sven Kunzel', 'Matthew D Templeton', 'Honour C McCann', 'Paul B Rainey'], u'August 19, 2016.', u'Lateral gene transfer can precipitate rapid evolutionary change. In 2010 the global pandemic of kiwifruit canker disease caused by Pseudomonas syringae pv. actinidiae (Psa) reached New Zealand. At the time of introduction, the single clone responsible for the outbreak was sensitive to copper, however, analysis of a sample of isolates taken in 2015 and 2016 showed that a quarter were copper resistant. Genome sequences of seven strains showed that copper resistance (comprising czc/cusABC and copABCD systems) along with resistance to arsenic and cadmium, was acquired via uptake of integrative conjugative elements (ICEs), but also plasmids. Comparative analysis showed ICEs to have a mosaic structure, with one being a tripartite arrangement of two different ICEs and a plasmid that were isolated in 1921 (USA), 1968 (NZ) and 1988 (Japan), from P. syringae pathogens of millet, wheat and kiwifruit, respectively. Two of the Psa ICEs were nearly identical to two ICEs isolated from kiwifruit leaf colonists prior to the introduction of Psa into NZ. Additionally, we show ICE transfer in vitro and in planta, analyze fitness consequences of ICE carriage, capture the de novo formation of novel recombinant ICEs, and explore ICE host-range.', u'/content/early/2016/08/19/070391', [], [u'NZIAS, Massey University;', u'Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology;', u'Plant and Food Research']]
[u'Deep Learning and Association Rule Mining for Predicting Drug Response in Cancer', ['Konstantinos N Vougas', 'Thomas Jackson', 'Alexander Polyzos', 'Michael Liontos', 'Elizabeth O Johnson', 'Vassilis Georgoulias', 'Paul Townsend', 'Jiri Bartek', 'Vassilis G Gorgoulis'], u'August 19, 2016.', u'A major challenge in cancer treatment is predicting the clinical response to anticancer drugs for each individual patient.  For complex diseases, such as cancer, characterized by high inter-patient variance, the implementation of precision medicine approaches is dependent upon understanding the disease process at the molecular level.  While the omics era provides unique opportunities to dissect the molecular features of diseases, the ability to apply it to targeted therapeutic efforts is hindered by both the massive size and diverse nature of the omic data.  Recent advances with Deep Learning Neural Networks (DLNN), suggests that DLNN could be trained on large data sets to efficiently predict therapeutic responses. We present the application of Association Rule Mining (Market Basket Analysis) in combination with Deep Learning to integrate and extract knowledge in the form of easily interpretable rules from the molecular profiles of 689 cancer cell lines and predict pharmacological responses to 139 anti-cancer drugs. The proposed algorithm achieved superior classification and outperformed Random Forests which currently represents the state-of-the-art classification process. Finally, the in silico pipeline presented introduces a novel strategy for identifying drug combinations with high therapeutic potential. For the first time, we demonstrate that DLNN trained on a large pharmacogenomic data set can effectively predict the therapeutic response of specific drugs in specific cancer types, from a large panel of both drugs and cancer cell lines. These findings serve as a proof of concept for the application of DLNN to predict therapeutic responsiveness, a milestone in precision medicine.', u'/content/early/2016/08/19/070490', [], [u'Biomedical Research Foundation of the Academy of Athens;', u'University of Manchester;', u'National and Kapodistrian University of Athens;', u'University of Crete;', u'Danish Cancer Society Research Centre']]
[u'The ExAC Browser: Displaying reference data information from over 60,000 exomes', ['Konrad J Karczewski', 'Ben Weisburd', 'Brett Thomas', 'Douglas M Ruderfer', 'David Kavanagh', 'Tymor Hamamsy', 'Monkol Lek', 'Kaitlin E Samocha', 'Beryl B Cummings', 'Daniel Birnbaum', 'Mark J Daly', 'Daniel G MacArthur'], u'August 19, 2016.', u'Worldwide, hundreds of thousands of humans have had their genomes or exomes sequenced, and access to the resulting data sets can provide valuable information for variant interpretation and understanding gene function. Here, we present a lightweight, flexible browser framework to display large population datasets of genetic variation. We demonstrate its use for exome sequence data from 60,706 individuals in the Exome Aggregation Consortium (ExAC). The ExAC browser provides gene- and transcript-centric displays of variation, a critical view for clinical applications. Additionally, we provide a variant display, which includes population frequency and functional annotation data as well as short read support for the called variant. This browser is open-source, freely available, and has already been used extensively by clinical laboratories worldwide.', u'/content/early/2016/08/19/070581', [], [u'Massachusetts General Hospital;', u'Mount Sinai Hospital']]
[u'Quantifying uncertainty of taxonomic placement in DNA barcoding and metabarcoding', ['Panu Somervuo', 'Douglas W. Yu', 'Charles Xu', 'Yinqiu Ji', 'Jenni Hultman', 'Helena Wirta', 'Otso Ovaskainen'], u'August 19, 2016.', u'1.\tA crucial step in the use of DNA markers for biodiversity surveys is the assignment of Linnaean taxonomies (species, genus, etc.) to sequence reads. This allows the use of all the information known based on the taxonomic names. Taxonomic placement of DNA barcoding sequences is inherently probabilistic because DNA sequences contain errors, because there is natural variation among sequences within a species, and because reference databases are incomplete and can have false annotations. However, most existing bioinformatics methods for taxonomic placement either exclude uncertainty, or quantify it using metrics other than probability.\n2.\tIn this paper we evaluate the performance of a recently proposed probabilistic taxonomic placement method PROTAX by applying it to both annotated reference sequence data as well as unknown environmental data. Our four case studies include contrasting taxonomic groups (fungi, bacteria, mammals, and insects), variation in the length and quality of the barcoding sequences (from individually Sanger-sequenced sequences to short Illumina reads), variation in the structures and sizes of the taxonomies (from 800 to 130 000 species), and variation in the completeness of the reference databases (representing 15% to 100% of the species).\n3.\tOur results demonstrate that PROTAX yields essentially unbiased assessment of probabilities of taxonomic placement, and thus that its quantification of species identification uncertainty is reliable. As expected, the accuracy of taxonomic placement increases with increasing coverage of taxonomic and reference sequence databases, and with increasing ratio of genetic variation among taxonomic levels over within taxonomic levels.\n4.\tOur results show that reliable species-level identification from environmental samples is still challenging, and thus neglecting identification uncertainty can lead to spurious inference. A key aim for future research is the completion and pruning of taxonomic and reference sequence databases, and making these two types of data compatible.', u'/content/early/2016/08/19/070573', [], [u'University of Helsinki;', u'Kunming Institute of Zoology']]
[u'Direct determination of diploid genome sequences', ['Neil I Weisenfeld', 'Vijay Kumar', 'Preyas Shah', 'Deanna Church', 'David B Jaffe'], u'August 19, 2016.', u'Determining the genome sequence of an organism is challenging, yet fundamental to understanding its biology. Over the past decade, thousands of human genomes have been sequenced, contributing deeply to biomedical research. In the vast majority of cases, these have been analyzed by aligning sequence reads to a single reference genome, biasing the resulting analyses and, in general, failing to capture sequences novel to a given genome. \n\nSome de novo assemblies have been constructed, free of reference bias, but nearly all were constructed by merging homologous loci into single \u2018consensus\u2019 sequences, generally absent from nature. These assemblies do not correctly represent the diploid biology of an individual. In exactly two cases, true diploid de novo assemblies have been made, at great expense. One was generated using Sanger sequencing and one using thousands of clone pools.\n\nHere we demonstrate a straightforward and low-cost method for creating true diploid de novo assemblies.  We make a single library from ~1 ng of high molecular weight DNA, using the 10x Genomics microfluidic platform to partition the genome. We applied this technique to seven human samples, generating low-cost HiSeq X data, then assembled these using a new \u2018pushbutton\u2019 algorithm, Supernova. Each computation took two days on a single server. Each yielded contigs longer than 100 kb, phase blocks longer than 2.5 Mb, and scaffolds longer than 15 Mb. Our method provides a scalable capability for determining the actual diploid genome sequence in a sample, opening the door to new approaches in genomic biology and medicine.', u'/content/early/2016/08/19/070425', [], [u'10x Genomics;', u'10x genomics']]
[u'ANU-ADRI and not Genetic Risk score predicts MCI in a cohort of older adults followed for 12 years', ['Shea Andrews', 'Ranmalee Eramudugolla', 'Jorge I Velez', 'Nicolas Cherbuin', 'Simon Easteal', 'Kaarin J Anstey'], u'August 19, 2016.', u'INTRODUCTION: We evaluated a risk score comprising lifestyle, medical and demographic factors (ANU-ADRI), and a genetic risk score (GRS) as predictors of Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI). \nMETHODS: ANU-ADRI risk scores were computed for the baseline assessment of 2,078 participants from the PATH project. Participants were assessed for clinically diagnosed MCI/Dementia and psychometric test-based MCI (MCI-TB) at 12 years of follow-up. Multi-state models estimated the odds of transitioning from cognitively normal (CN) to MCI/Dementia and MCI-TB over 12 years according to baseline ANU-ADRI and GRS. \nRESULTS: Higher ANU-ADRI score predicted transitioning from CN to either MCI/Dementia and MCI-TB (Hazard ratio [HR] = 1.06, 95% CI:1.04-1.09; HR = 1.06, 95% CI: 1.03-1.09), and a reduced likelihood of cognitive recovery from MCI-TB to CN (HR = 0.69, 95% CI: 0.49-0.98). GRS was not associated with transition to MCI/Dementia, or MCI-TB.\nDISCUSSION: The ANU-ADRI may be used for population-level risk assessment and screening.', u'/content/early/2016/08/19/070516', [], [u'John Curtin School of Medical Research, Australian National University;', u'Research School of Population Health Australian National University;', u'Neuroscience Research Group, University of Antioquia']]
[u'Reward-based training of recurrent neural networks for cognitive and value-based tasks', ['H. Francis Song', 'Guangyu R. Yang', 'Xiao-Jing Wang'], u'August 19, 2016.', u"Trained neural network models, which exhibit many features observed in neural recordings from behaving animals and whose activity and connectivity can be fully analyzed, may provide insights into neural mechanisms. In contrast to commonly used methods for supervised learning from graded error signals, however, animals learn from reward feedback on definite actions through reinforcement learning. Reward maximization is particularly relevant when the optimal behavior depends on an animal's internal judgment of confidence or subjective preferences. Here, we describe reward-based training of recurrent neural networks in which a value network guides learning by using the selected actions and activity of the policy network to predict future reward. We show that such models capture both behavioral and electrophysiological findings from well-known experimental paradigms. Our results provide a unified framework for investigating diverse cognitive and value-based computations, including a role for value representation that is essential for learning, but not executing, a task.", u'/content/early/2016/08/19/070375', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'New York University']]
[u'Association of AKAP6 and MIR2113 with cognitive performance in a population based sample of older adults', ['Shea Andrews', 'Debjani Das', 'Kaarin J Anstey', 'Simon Easteal'], u'August 19, 2016.', u'Genetic factors make a substantial contribution to inter-individual variability in cognitive function. A recent meta-analysis of genome-wide association studies identified two loci, AKAP6 and MIR2113 that are associated with general cognitive function. Here, we extend this previous research by investigating the association of MIR2113 and AKAP6 with baseline and longitudinal nonlinear change across a broad spectrum of cognitive domains in community-based cohort of 1,570 older adults without dementia. Two SNPs, MIR211-rs10457441 and AKAP6-rs17522122 were genotyped in 1,570 non-demented older Australians of European ancestry, who were examined up to 4 times over 12 years. Linear mixed effects models were used to examine the association between AKAP6 and MIR2113 with cognitive performance in episodic memory, working memory, vocabulary, perceptual speed and reaction time at baseline and with linear and quadratic rates of change. AKAP6-rs17522122*T was associated with worse baseline performance in episodic memory, working memory, vocabulary and perceptual speed, but it was not associated with cognitive change in any domain. MIR2113-rs10457441*T was associated with accelerated decline in episodic memory. No other associations with baseline cognitive performance or with linear or quadratic rate or cognitive changes was observed for this SNP. These results confirm the previous finding that, AKAP6 is associated with performance across multiple cognitive domains at baseline but not with cognitive decline, while MIR2113 primarily affects the rate at which memory declines over time.', u'/content/early/2016/08/19/070409', [u'Genetics'], [u'Australian National University;', u'John Curtin School of Medical Research, Australian National University, Canberra;', u'Centre for Research on Ageing, Health and Wellbeing, Australian National University']]
[u'Microbial Signatures of Oral Dysbiosis, Periodontitis and Edentulism Revealed by Gene Meter Methodology', ['M Colby Hunter', 'Alexander E Pozhitkov', 'Peter Anthony Noble'], u'August 19, 2016.', u'Conceptual models suggest certain microorganisms (e.g., the red complex) are indicative of a specific disease state (e.g., periodontitis); however, recent studies have questioned the validity of these models.  Here, the abundances of 500+ microbial species were determined in 16 patients with clinical signs of one of the following oral conditions: periodontitis, established caries, edentulism, and oral health.  Our goal was to determine if the abundances of certain microorganisms reflect dysbiosis or a specific clinical condition that could be used as a signature for dental research.  Microbial abundances were determined by the analysis of 138,718 calibrated probes using Gene Meter methodology.  Each 16S rRNA gene was targeted by an average of 194 unique probes (n=25 nt).  The calibration involved diluting pooled gene target samples, hybridizing each dilution to a DNA microarray, and fitting the probe intensities to adsorption models.  The fit of the model to the experimental data was used to assess individual and aggregate probe behavior; good fits (R2>0.90) were retained for back-calculating microbial abundances from patient samples. The abundance of a gene was determined from the median of all calibrated individual probes or from the calibrated abundance of all aggregated probes.  With the exception of genes with low abundances (< 2 arbitrary units), the abundances determined by the different calibrations were highly correlated (r ~1.0).  Seventeen genera were classified as signatures of dysbiosis because they had significantly higher abundances in patients with periodontitis and edentulism when contrasted with health.  Similarly, 13 genera were classified as signatures of periodontitis, and 14 genera were classified as signatures of edentulism.  The signatures could be used, individually or in combination, to assess the clinical status of a patient (e.g., evaluating treatments such as antibiotic therapies).  Comparisons of the same patient samples revealed high false negatives (45%) for next-generation-sequencing results and low false positives (7%) for Gene Meter results.', u'/content/early/2016/08/19/070367', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Alabama State University;', u'University of Washington']]
[u'Widespread Historical Contingency in Influenza Viruses', ['Jean Claude Nshogozabahizi', 'Jonathan Dench', 'Stephane Aris-Brosou'], u'August 19, 2016.', u'In systems biology and genomics, epistasis characterizes the impact that a substitution at a particular location in a genome can have on a substitution at another location. This phenomenon is often implicated in the evolution of drug resistance or to explain why particular \u2018disease-causing\u2019 mutations do not have the same outcome in all individuals. Hence, uncovering these mutations and their location in a genome is a central question in biology. However, epistasis is notoriously difficult to uncover, especially in fast-evolving organisms. Here, we present a novel statistical approach that replies on a model developed in ecology and that we adapt to analyze genetic data in fast-evolving systems such as the influenza A virus. We validate the approach using a two-pronged strategy: extensive simulations demonstrate a low-to-moderate sensitivity with an excellent specificity, while analyses of experimentally-validated data recover known interactions, including in a eukaryotic system. We further evaluate the ability of our approach to detect correlated evolution during antigenic shifts or at the emergence of drug resistance. We show that in all cases, correlated evolution is prevalent in influenza A viruses, involving many pairs of sites linked together in chains, a hallmark of historical contingency. Strikingly, interacting sites are separated by large physical distances, which entails either long-range conformational changes or functional tradeoffs, for which we find support with the emergence of drug resistance. Our work paves a new way for the unbiased detection of epistasis in a wide range of organisms by performing whole-genome scans.', u'/content/early/2016/08/19/070094', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Ottawa']]
[u'DNA damage is a major cause of sequencing errors, directly confounding variant identification.', ['Lixin Chen', 'Pingfang Liu', 'Thomas Corwin Evans', 'Laurence Michele Ettwiller'], u'August 19, 2016.', u'Pervasive mutations in somatic cells generate a heterogeneous genomic population within an organism and may result in serious medical conditions. While cancer is the most studied disease associated with somatic variations, recent advances in single cell and ultra deep sequencing indicates that a number of phenotypes and pathologies are impacted by cell specific variants. Currently, the accurate identification of low allelic frequency somatic variants relies on a combination of deep sequencing coverage and multiple evidences. However, in this study we show that false positive variants can account for more than 70% of identified somatic variations, rendering conventional detection methods inadequate for accurate determination of low allelic variants. Interestingly, these false positive variants primarily originate from mutagenic DNA damage which directly confounds determination of genuine somatic mutations. Furthermore, we developed and validated a simple metric to measure mutagenic DNA damage and demonstrated that mutagenic DNA damage is the leading cause of sequencing errors in widely-used resources including the 1000 Genomes Project and The Cancer Genome Atlas.', u'/content/early/2016/08/19/070334', [u'Genomics'], [u'New England Biolabs']]
[u'Targeted re-sequencing reveals the genetic signatures and the reticulate history of barley domestication', ['Artem Pankin', 'Janine Altmuller', 'Christian Becker', 'Maria von Korff'], u'August 19, 2016.', u'Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) is one of the Neolithic founder crops of the early agricultural societies. The circumstances of its domestication and genomic signatures that underlie barley transition from a weed to a crop remain obscure. We explored genomic variation in a diversity set of 433 wild and domesticated barley accessions using targeted re-sequencing that generated a genome-wide panel of 544,318 high-quality SNPs. We observed a ~50% reduction of genetic diversity in domesticated compared to wild barley and diversity patterns indicative of a strong domestication bottleneck. Selection scans discovered multiple selective sweep regions associated with domestication. The top candidate domestication genes have been implicated in the regulation of light signaling, circadian clock, hormone and carbohydrate metabolism. Phylogeographic analyses revealed a mosaic ancestry of the domestication-related loci, which originated from nine wild barley populations. This indicates that recurrent introgression and selection of wild alleles apparently shaped the domesticated gene pool, which supports a protracted domestication model.', u'/content/early/2016/08/19/070078', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Max Planck Institute for Plant Breeding Research;', u'Cologne Center for Genomics (CCG), University of Cologne;', u'Institute of Plant Genetics, CEPLAS, Heinrich-Heine-University / MPI for Plant Breeding Research']]
[u'Assembly of Radically Recoded E. coli Genome Segments', ['Julie E Norville', 'Cameron L. Gardner', 'Eduardo Aponte', 'Conor K. Camplisson', 'Alexandra Gonzales', 'David K. Barclay', 'Katerina A. Turner', 'Victoria Longe', 'Maria Mincheva', 'Jun Teramoto', 'Kento Tominaga', 'Ryota Sugimoto', 'James E. DiCarlo', 'Marc Guell', 'Eriona Hysolli', 'John Aach', 'Christopher J. Gregg', 'Barry L. Wanner', 'George M. Church'], u'August 19, 2016.', u'The large potential of radically recoded organisms (RROs) in medicine and industry depends on improved technologies for efficient assembly and testing of recoded genomes for biosafety and functionality.  Here we describe a next generation platform for conjugative assembly genome engineering, termed CAGE 2.0, that enables the scarless integration of large synthetically recoded E. coli segments at isogenic or adjacent genomic loci. A stable tdk dual selective marker is employed to facilitate cyclical assembly and removal of attachment sites used for targeted segment delivery by site-specific recombination. Bypassing the need for vector transformation harnesses the multi-Mbp capacity of CAGE 1.0, while minimizing artifacts associated with RecA-mediated homologous recombination. Our method expands the genome engineering toolkit for radical modification across many organisms and for recombinase-mediated cassette exchange (RMCE).', u'/content/early/2016/08/19/070417', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'Harvard Medical School and Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering;', u'National Institute of Health and University of Oxford;', u'bioMerieux;', u'Harvard Medical School;', u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology;', u'Sofia University;', u'Kobe University;', u'Tokyo Metropolitan University;', u'Tokyo Institute of Technology;', u'Columbia University;', u'Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering;', u'GreenLight Biosciences, Inc.']]
