[u'Towards a successful translocation of captive slow lorises (Nycticebus spp.) in Borneo: a review and recommendations', ['Lia van der Sandt'], u'October 1, 2016.', u'Wildlife in Southeast Asia is under threat mainly due to habitat loss and the pet trade. Wild animals are rescued by wildlife centres and the slow loris (Nycticebus spp.) is one of them.  After rehabilitation slow lorises are released into the wild and on average 26% survive. \nThe IUCN has established conditions under which captive wild animals can be translocated into their natural habitat. This review paper aims to give an overview of what has been published on release programs of captive slow lorises in order to improve translocations in Sarawak, Malaysian Borneo. Five documented studies on translocation of  slow lorises are summarised. We concentrated on: (1) species of captive slow loris, (2) health check, (3) pre-release habituation, (4) soft or hard release, (5) pre and post-release behavioural observations, (6) assessment of the release area: predators, habitat and protection. The recommendations for future releases are: (1) Study which slow loris species are rehabilitated in Bornean wildlife centres. (2) Study the behaviour of captive slow lorises. (3) Assess the slow loris species in the release area. (4) Study the behaviour and habitat use of the wild population. (5) Assess what predators are present in the release area.', u'/content/early/2016/10/01/078535', [u'Ecology'], [u'Orangutan Project Sdn Bhd. Kuching, Malaysia']]
[u'Identification of a Zika NS2B-NS3pro pocket susceptible to allosteric inhibition by small molecules including qucertin rich in edible plants', ['Liangzhong Lim', 'Amrita Roy', 'Jianxing Song'], u'October 1, 2016.', u'It has been recently estimated that one-third of the world population will be infected by Zika virus, but unfortunately so far there is no vaccine or medicine available. In particular, the special concern on the vaccine treatment to Zika and Dengue arising from antibody-dependent enhancement strongly emphasizes the irreplaceable role of its NS2B-NS3 protease (NS2B-NS3pro) as a target for anti-Zika drug discovery/design due to its absolutely-essential role in viral replication. Very recently we identified two small molecules inhibit Zika NS2B-NS3pro in non-competitive mode, with Ki values of 0.57 and 2.02 uM respective for p-Nitrophenyl-p-guanidino benzoate and qucertin. Here, by molecular docking, we show that although one is designed compound while another is a natural product, both molecules bind to the same pocket on the back of the substrate-binding pocket of Zika NS2B-NS3pro. As the two inhibitors fundamentally differ from cn-716, the only known peptidomimetic boronic acid inhibitor in both structure scaffolds and inhibitory modes, our discovery might open up a new avenue for the future development of allosteric inhibitors, which is highly demanded to achieve therapeutic inhibition of flaviviral NS2B-NS3pro complexes. Furthermore, as qucertin is abundant in many vegetables and fruits such caper, lovage, tea and red onion, our results should benefit the public to immediately fight Zika virus.', u'/content/early/2016/10/01/078543', [u'Biophysics'], [u'National University of Singapore']]
[u'Use of whole-genome sequencing in the epidemiology of Campylobacter jejuni infections: state-of-knowledge', ['Ann-Katrin Llarena', 'Mirko Rossi'], u'October 1, 2016.', u'High-throughput whole-genome sequencing (WGS) is a revolutionary tool in public health microbiology and is gradually substituting classical typing methods in surveillance of infectious diseases. In combination with epidemiological methods, WGS is able to identify both sources and transmission-pathways during disease outbreak investigations. This review provides the current state of knowledge on the application of WGS in the epidemiology of Campylobacter jejuni, the leading cause of bacterial gastroenteritis in the European Union. We describe how WGS has improved surveillance and outbreak detection of C. jejuni infections and how WGS has increased our understanding of the evolutionary and epidemiological dynamics of this pathogen. However, the full implementation of this methodology in real-time is still hampered by a few hurdles. The limited insight into the genetic diversity of different lineages of C. jejuni impedes the validity of assumed genetic relationships. Furthermore, efforts are needed to reach a consensus on which analytic pipeline to use and how to define the strains cut-off value for epidemiological association while taking the needs and realities of public health microbiology in consideration. Even so, we claim that ample evidence is available to support the benefit of integrating WGS in the monitoring of C. jejuni infections and outbreak investigations.', u'/content/early/2016/10/01/078550', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Helsinki']]
