[u'A Critical, Nonlinear Threshold Dictates Bacterial Invasion and Initial Kinetics During Influenza', ['Amber M. Smith', 'Amanda P. Smith'], u'May 8, 2016.', u"Secondary bacterial infections increase morbidity and mortality of influenza A virus (IAV) infections. Bacteria are able to invade due to virus-induced depletion of alveolar macrophages (AMs), which are the host's first line of defense. However, this is not the only factor contributing to bacterial invasion during IAV infection. By analyzing a theoretical model describing the coinfection kinetics, we uncovered nonlinear initial dose threshold that is dependent on the amount of AM depletion caused by the virus. This threshold separates a growth phenotype from a clearance phenotype such that bacteria initially decline for dose-AM depletion combinations below the threshold, stay constant for combinations near the threshold, and increase for combinations above the threshold. In addition, the distance from the threshold correlates to the growth rate. Because AM depletion changes throughout an IAV infection, the dose requirement for bacterial invasion will also change according to the threshold. Using the threshold calculation to estimate the dynamical dose requirement, we found that the dose requirement drops dramatically during the first 7d of the IAV infection. We then validated these analytical predictions experimentally by infecting mice with doses below or above the predicted threshold over the course of IAV infection. These results identify the nonlinear way in which two simultaneous, independent factors work together to support successful post-influenza bacterial invasion. They provide insight into the timing of coinfections, the heterogeneity in outcome, the probability of acquiring a coinfection, and the use of new therapeutic strategies to combat viral-bacterial coinfections.", u'/content/early/2016/05/08/052175', [], [u"St. Jude Children's Research Hospital"]]
[u'Tumor evolution of glioma intrinsic gene expression subtype associates with immunological changes in the microenvironment', ['Qianghu Wang', 'Xin Hu', 'Florian Muller', 'Hoon Kim', 'Massimo Squatrito', 'Tom Millelsen', 'Lisa Scarpace', 'Floris Barthel', 'Yu-Hsi Lin', 'Nikunj Satani', 'Emmanuel Martinez-Ledesma', 'Edward Chang', 'Adriana Olar', 'Baoli Hu', 'Ana C. deCarvalho', 'Eskil Eskilsson', 'Siyuan Zheng', 'Amy B. Heimberger', 'Erik P. Sulman', 'Do-Hyun Nam', 'Roel G.W. Verhaak'], u'May 8, 2016.', u'We leveraged IDH wild type glioblastomas (GBM) and derivative neurosphere models to define the tumor-intrinsic mRNA transcription phenotype. We found that intratumoral heterogeneity is reflected in the transcriptome and associated with increased tumor microenvironment presence. We performed in silico cell sorting to demonstrate that M2 macrophages/microglia are the most frequent type of immune cells in the glioma microenvironment, followed by CD4+ T lymphocytes. Longitudinal transcriptome analysis of 124 pairs of primary and recurrent glioma pairs showed expression subtype is retained in 53% of cases with no proneural to mesenchymal transition being apparent. Inference of the tumor microenvironment through gene signatures revealed a decrease in invading monocytes but a subtype dependent increase in M2 macrophages/microglia cells after disease recurrence. Our longitudinal expression dataset can be accessed at http://ackbar.cnio.es:3838/RecuR/. Our study provides a comprehensive transcriptional and cellular landscape of IDH wild type GBM during treatment modulated tumor evolution.', u'/content/early/2016/05/08/052076', [], [u'MD Anderson Cancer Center;', u'Centro Nacional de Investigaciones Onco\xf3gicas;', u'Henry Ford Hospital;', u'Samsung Medical Center']]
[u'Cell-cycle coupled expression minimizes random fluctuations in gene product levels', ['Mohammad Soltani', 'Abhyudai Singh'], u'May 8, 2016.', u'Expression of many genes varies as a cell transitions through different cell-cycle stages. How coupling between stochastic expression and cell cycle impacts cell-to-cell variability (noise) in the level of protein is not well understood. We analyze a model, where a stable protein is synthesized in random bursts, and the frequency with which bursts occur varies within the cell cycle. Formulas quantifying the extent of fluctuations in the protein copy number are derived and decomposed into components arising from the cell cycle and stochastic processes. The latter stochastic component represents contributions from bursty expression and errors incurred during partitioning of molecules between daughter cells.  These formulas reveal an interesting trade-off: cell-cycle dependencies that amplify the noise contribution from bursty expression also attenuate the contribution from partitioning errors. We  investigate existence of optimum strategies for coupling expression to the cell cycle that minimize the stochastic component. Intriguingly, results show that a zero production rate throughout the cell cycle, with expression only occurring just before cell division minimizes noise from bursty expression for a fixed mean protein level.  In contrast, the optimal strategy in the case of partitioning errors is to make the protein just after cell division. We provide examples of regulatory proteins that are expressed only towards the end of cell cycle, and argue that such strategies enhance robustness of cell-cycle decisions to the intrinsic stochasticity of gene expression.', u'/content/early/2016/05/08/052159', [], [u'University of Delaware']]
[u'Matching models across abstraction levels with Gaussian Processes', ['Giulio Caravagna', 'Luca Bortolussi', 'Guido Sanguinetti'], u'May 8, 2016.', u'Biological systems are often modelled at different levels of abstraction depending on the particular aims/resources of a study. Such different models often provide qualitatively concordant predictions over specific parametrisations, but it is generally unclear whether model predictions are quantitatively in agreement, and whether such agreement holds for different parametrisations. Here we present a generally applicable statistical machine learning methodology to automatically reconcile the predictions of different models across abstraction levels. Our approach is based on defining a correction map, a random function which modifies the output of a model in order to match the statistics of the output of a different model of the same system. We use two biological examples to give a proof-of-principle demonstration of the methodology, and discuss its advantages and potential further applications.', u'/content/early/2016/05/08/052100', [u'Biophysics'], [u'University of Edinburgh;', u'University of Trieste, Italy & CNR,  Italy & University of Saarbruken, Germany']]
