[u'Homozygous c.259G>A variant in ISCA1 is associated with a new multiple mitochondrial dysfunctions syndrome', ['Anju Shukla', 'Malavika Hebbar', 'Anshika Srivastava', 'Rajagopal Kadavigere', 'Priyanka Upadhyai', 'Anil Kanthi', 'Oliver Brandau', 'Stephanie Bielas', 'Katta Girisha'], u'November 23, 2016.', u'The iron-sulfur (Fe-S) cluster (ISC) biogenesis pathway is indispensable for many fundamental biological processes and pathogenic variations in genes encoding several components of the Fe-S biogenesis machinery, such as NFU1, BOLA3, IBA57 and ISCA2 are already implicated in causing four types of multiple mitochondrial dysfunctions syndromes (MMDS) among other human diseases. MMDS are clinically characterized by neurodevelopmental delay, neurological deterioration, lactic acidosis, extensive white matter abnormalities and early death. We report on two unrelated families, with two affected children each with neurodevelopmental delay, regression of developmental milestones, seizures, extensive white matter abnormalities, cortical migrational abnormalities, lactic acidosis and early demise. Exome sequencing of two affected individuals, one from each family, revealed a homozygous c.259G>A variant in ISCA1 and Mendelian segregation was confirmed in both families. ISCA1 is a specialized factor known to mediate maturation of distinct Fe-S cluster (ISC) proteins. In silico functional analyses and structural modeling of the protein predict the identified ISCA1 variant to be detrimental to protein stability and function. Notably the phenotype observed in all affected subjects with the ISCA1 pathogenic variant is similar to that previously described in all 4 types of MMDS. The ISCA1 variant lies in the only shared region of homozygosity between the two families suggesting the possibility of a founder effect. To the best of our knowledge this is the first instance where ISCA1 deficiency has been shown to be associated with a human disease, a new type of multiple mitochondrial dysfunctions syndrome.', u'/content/early/2016/11/23/089292', [], [u'Kasturba Medical College;', u'Michigan Medical School, University of Michigan;', u'Centogene, AG']]
[u'Polygenic transmission disequilibrium confirms that common and rare variation act additively to create risk for autism spectrum disorders', ['Daniel J. Weiner', 'Emilie M. Wigdor', 'Stephan Ripke', 'Raymond K. Walters', 'Jack A. Kosmicki', 'Jakob Grove', 'Kaitlin E. Samocha', 'Jacqueline Goldstein', 'Aysu Okbay', 'Jonas Bybjerg-Gauholm', 'Thomas Werge', 'David M. Hougaard', 'Jacob Taylor', 'David Skuse', 'Bernie Devlin', 'Richard Anney', 'Stephan Sanders', 'Somer Bishop', 'Preben Bo Mortensen', 'Anders Borglum', 'George Davey Smith', 'Mark J Daly', 'Elise B. Robinson'], u'November 23, 2016.', u"Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) risk is influenced by both common polygenic and de novo variation. The purpose of this analysis was to clarify the influence of common polygenic risk for ASDs and to identify subgroups of cases, including those with strong acting de novo variants, in which different types of polygenic risk are relevant. To do so, we extend the transmission disequilibrium approach to encompass polygenic risk scores, and introduce with polygenic transmission disequilibrium test. Using data from more than 6,400 children with ASDs and 15,000 of their family members, we show that polygenic risk for ASDs, schizophrenia, and educational attainment is over transmitted to children with ASDs in two independent samples, but not to their unaffected siblings. These findings hold independent of proband IQ. We find that common polygenic variation contributes additively to ASD risk in cases that carry a very strong acting de novo variant. Lastly, we find evidence that elements of polygenic risk are independent and differ in their relationship with proband phenotype. These results confirm that ASDs' genetic influences are highly additive and suggest that they create risk through at least partially distinct etiologic pathways.", u'/content/early/2016/11/23/089342', [], [u'Massachusetts General Hospital;', u'Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard;', u'Aarhus University;', u'Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam;', u'Statens Serum Institut;', u'University of Copenhagen;', u'University College London;', u'University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine;', u'Cardiff University;', u'University of California San Francisco;', u'University of Bristol']]
[u'NaviCom: A web application to create interactive molecular network portraits using multi-level omics data', ['Mathurin Dorel', 'Emmanuel Barillot', 'Andrei Zinovyev', 'Inna Kuperstein'], u'November 23, 2016.', u'Human diseases such as cancer are routinely characterized by high-throughput molecular technologies, and multi-level omics data are accumulated in public databases at increasing rate. Retrieval and visualization of these data in the context of molecular network maps can provide insights into the pattern of molecular functions encompassed by an omics profile. In order to make this task easy, we developed NaviCom, a Python package and web platform for visualization of multi-level omics data on top of biological network maps. NaviCom is bridging the gap between cBioPortal, the most used resource of large-scale cancer omics data and NaviCell, a data visualization web service that contains several molecular network map collections. NaviCom proposes several standardized modes of data display on top of molecular network maps, allowing to address specific biological questions. We illustrate how users can easily create interactive network-based cancer molecular portraits via NaviCom web interface using the maps of Atlas of Cancer Signaling Network (ACSN) and other maps. Analysis of these molecular portraits can help in formulating a scientific hypothesis on the molecular mechanisms deregulated in the studied disease.', u'/content/early/2016/11/23/089367', [], [u'Institut Curie']]
[u'The dynamics of human cognition: increasing global integration coupled with decreasing segregation found using intracortical EEG', ['Josephine Cruzat', 'Gustavo Deco', 'Adria Tauste Campo', 'Alessandro Principe', 'Marco Calabria', 'Albert Costa', 'Morten L. Kringelbach', 'Rodrigo Rocamora'], u'November 23, 2016.', u'Cognitive processing requires the ability to flexibly adjust and integrate information across large brain networks. More information is needed on how brain networks dynamically reorganize to allow such broad communication across many different brain regions in order to integrate the necessary information. Here, we use intracranial EEG to record neural activity from 12 epileptic patients while they perform a cognitive task in order to study how the broadness of communication changes across the underlying network spanning many different brain regions. The broadness of communication is characterized by functional measures of integration and segregation. Across all patients, we found significant increases in integration and decreases in segregation during cognitive processing, especially in the gamma band (50-90 Hz). Accordingly, we also found significantly higher level of global synchronization and functional connectivity during the execution of the cognitive task, again particularly in the gamma band. Furthermore, we demonstrate that these modulations in the level of communication across the network were not caused by changes in the level of the underlying oscillations as reflected by the corresponding power spectra.', u'/content/early/2016/11/23/089326', [], [u'Pompeu Fabra University;', u'Universitat Pompeu Fabra;', u'IMIM;', u'University of Oxford']]
[u'History of Antibiotic Adaptation Influences Microbial Evolutionary Dynamics During Subsequent Treatment', ['Phillip Yen', 'Jason Papin'], u'November 23, 2016.', u'Antibiotic regimens often include the sequential changing of drugs to limit development and evolution of resistance of bacterial pathogens. It remains unclear how history of adaptation to one antibiotic can influence the resistance profiles when bacteria subsequently adapt to a different antibiotic. Here, we experimentally evolved Pseudomonas aeruginosa to six two-drug sequences. We observed drug order-specific effects whereby: adaptation to the first drug can limit subsequent adaptation to the second drug, adaptation to the second drug can restore susceptibility to the first drug, or final resistance levels depend on the order of the two-drug sequence. These findings demonstrate how resistance not only depends on the current drug regimen but also history of past regimens. These order-specific effects have profound clinical implications and provide support for the need to consider history of past drug exposure when designing strategies to mitigate resistance and combat bacterial infections.', u'/content/early/2016/11/23/089334', [], [u'University of Virginia']]
[u'Activating task relevant prior knowledge increases active information storage in content specific brain areas', ['Alla Brodski-Guerniero', 'Georg-Friedrich Paasch', 'Patricia Wollstadt', 'Ipek Oezdemir', 'Joseph T. Lizier', 'Michael Wibral'], u'November 23, 2016.', u'Predictive coding suggests that the brain infers the causes of its sensations by combining sensory evidence with internal predictions based on available prior knowledge. However, the neurophysiological correlates of (pre-)activated prior knowledge serving for predictions are still unknown. Based on the idea that such pre-activated prior-knowledge must be maintained until needed we measured the amount of maintained information in neural signals via the active information storage (AIS) measure. AIS was calculated on whole-brain beamformer-reconstructed source time-courses from magnetoencephalography recordings of 52 human subjects during the baseline of a Mooney face/house detection task. Pre-activation of prior knowledge for faces showed as alpha- and beta-band related AIS increases in content specific areas; these AIS increases were behaviourally relevant. Moreover, top-down transfer of predictions estimated by transfer entropy was associated with beta frequencies. Our results support accounts that activated prior knowledge and the corresponding predictions are signalled in low frequency activity (<30 Hz).', u'/content/early/2016/11/23/089300', [], [u'MEG Unit, Brain Imaging Center, Goethe University Frankfurt;', u'MEG Unit, Brain Imaging Center,Goethe University Frankfurt;', u'Complex Systems Research Group and Centre for Complex Systems, The University of Sydney']]
[u'Ancient coding sequences underpin the spatial patterning of gene expression in C4 leaves', ['Ivan Reyna-Llorens', 'Steven J Burgess', 'Ben P Williams', 'Susan Stanley', 'Chris Boursnell', 'Julian M Hibberd'], u'November 23, 2016.', u'Photosynthesis is compromised in most plants because an enzymatic side-reaction fixes O2 instead of CO2. The energetic cost of oxygenation led to the evolution of C4 photosynthesis. In almost all C4 leaves compartmentation of photosynthesis between cells reduces oxygenation and so increases photosynthetic efficiency. Here we report that spatial expression of most C4 genes is controlled by intragenic cis-elements rather than promoter sequence. Two DNA motifs that co-operatively specify the patterning of genes required for C4 photosynthesis are identified. They are conserved in plants and algae that use the ancestral C3 pathway. As these motifs are located in exons they represent duons determining both gene expression and amino acid sequence. Our findings provide functional evidence for the importance of transcription factors recognising coding sequence as previously defined by genome-wide binding studies. Furthermore, they indicate that C4 evolution is based on ancient DNA motifs found in exonic sequence.', u'/content/early/2016/11/23/085795', [], [u'University of Cambridge']]
[u'Transition into inflammatory cancer-associated adipocytes in breast cancer microenvironment requires microRNA regulatory mechanism', ['Jiwoo Lee', 'Han Suk Ryu', 'Bok Sil Hong', 'Han-Byoel Lee', 'Minju Lee', 'In Ae Park', 'Jisun Kim', 'Wonshik Han', 'Dong-Young Noh', 'Hyeong-Gon Moon'], u'November 23, 2016.', u'Introduction: The role of adipocytes in cancer microenvironment has gained focus during the recent years. However, the characteristics of the cancer-associated adipocytes (CAA) in human breast cancer tissues and the underlying regulatory mechanism are not clearly understood.\nMethod: We reviewed pathology specimens of breast cancer patients to understand the morphologic characteristics of CAA, and profiled the mRNA and miRNA expression of CAA by using indirect co-culture system in vitro.  Results: The CAAs in human breast cancers showed heterogeneous topographic relationship with breast cancer cells within the breast microenvironment. The CAAs exhibited the characteristics of de-differentiation determined by their microscopic appearance and the expression levels of adipogenic markers. Additionally, the 3T3-L1 adipocytes co-cultured with breast cancer cells showed up-regulation of inflammation-related genes including Il6 and Ptx3. The up-regulation of IL6 in CAA was further observed in human breast cancer tissues. miRNA array of co-cultured 3T3-L1 cells showed increased expression of mmu-miR-5112 which may target Cpeb1. Cpeb1 is a negative regulator of Il6. The suppressive role of mmu-miR-5112 was confirmed by dual luciferase reporter assay, and mmu-miR-5112-treated adipocytes showed up-regulation of Il6. The transition of adipocytes into more inflammatory CAA resulted in proliferation-promoting effect in ER positive breast cancer cells such as MCF7 and ZR-75-1 but not in ER negative cells.  Conclusion: In this study, we have determined the de-differentiated and inflammatory natures of CAA in breast cancer microenvironment. Additionally, we propose a miRNA-based regulatory mechanism underlying the process of acquiring inflammatory phenotypes in CAA.', u'/content/early/2016/11/23/089243', [], [u'Center for Medical Innovation, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul;', u'Department of Pathology, Seoul National University Hospital;', u'Department of Surgery, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul']]
[u'SINCERITIES: Inferring gene regulatory networks from time-stamped single cell transcriptional expression profiles', ['Nan Papili Gao', 'Minhaz S.M. Ud-Dean', 'Rudiyanto Gunawan'], u'November 23, 2016.', u'Recent advances in single cell transcriptional profiling open up a new avenue in studying the functional role of cell-to-cell variability in physiological processes such as stem cell differentiation. In this work, we developed a novel algorithm called SINCERITIES (SINgle CEll Regularized Inference using TIme-stamped Expression profileS), for the inference of gene regulatory networks (GRNs) from single cell transcriptional expression data. In particular, we focused on time-stamped cross-sectional expression data, a common type of dataset generated from transcriptional profiling of single cells collected at multiple time points after cell stimulation. SINCERITIES recovers the regulatory (causal) relationships among genes by employing regularized linear regression, particularly ridge regression, using temporal changes in the distributions of gene expressions. Meanwhile, the modes of the gene regulations (activation and repression) come from partial correlation analyses between pairs of genes. We demonstrated the efficacy of SINCERITIES in inferring GRNs using simulated time-stamped in silico single cell expression data and single transcriptional profiling of THP-1 monocytic human leukemia cell differentiation. The case studies showed that SINCERITIES could provide accurate GRN predictions, significantly better than other GRN inference algorithms such as TSNI, GENIE3 and JUMP3. Meanwhile, SINCERITIES has a low computational complexity and is amenable to problems of extremely large dimensionality.', u'/content/early/2016/11/23/089110', [], [u'ETH Zurich;', u'Eberhard Karls University Tuebingen']]
[u'Adaptive mutations in RNA polymerase and the transcriptional terminator Rho have similar effects on Escherichia coli gene expression', ['Andrea Gonzalez-Gonzalez', 'Alejandra Rodriguez-Verdugo', 'Shaun Hug', 'Jagdish Suresh Patel', 'Brandon Gaut'], u'November 23, 2016.', u'Experimental microbial evolution (EME) provides the opportunity to study the mutations that drive adaptation. We recently completed an EME that subjected 115 independent Escherichia coli populations to thermal stress (42.2C) for a year.  At the end of the experiment, we identified two major, negatively epistatic adaptive pathways.  One pathway had mutations in rpoB, the gene encoding the RNA polymerase beta subunit, and the other that had mutations in rho, which encodes a transcriptional terminator. Here we focused on four putatively beneficial rho mutations by introducing them into the ancestral genotype and by measuring their effects on fitness, gene expression, protein structure and termination efficiency. Results were heterogenous among mutations; two conferred adaptive effects at levels similar to four beneficial rpoB mutations, without any discernible effect on transcriptional termination. The other two enhanced transcriptional read-through and were not adaptive, suggesting they are beneficial only in the context of epistatic interactions. Fitness had no discernible relationship with the predicted effect of mutations on the free energy of protein folding.  Overall, the rho mutations had similar effects on gene expression as rpoB mutations.  Of 1726 genes that were differentially expressed between rpoB mutations and the EME ancestor, 83% were also affected by rho mutations. Moreover, both rho and rpoB mutations tended to restore gene expression to that of the unstressed (37.7C) ancestor, and the extent of restoration correlated quantitatively with fitness. This rare opportunity to compare beneficial mutations within and across adaptive pathways suggests the pathways traverse similar fitness landscapes.', u'/content/early/2016/11/23/089268', [], [u'University of Idaho;', u'ETH Zurich;', u'University of California, Irvine;', u'UC Irvine']]
[u'Probing cytoskeletal modulation of passive and active intracellular dynamics using nanobody-functionalized quantum dots', ['Eugene A Katrukha', 'Marina Mikhaylova', 'Hugo X van Brakel', 'Paul M van Bergen en Henegouwen', 'Anna Akhmanova', 'Casper C Hoogenraad', 'Lukas C Kapitein'], u'November 23, 2016.', u'The cytoplasm is a highly complex and heterogeneous medium that is structured by the cytoskeleton. Cytoskeletal organization and dynamics are known to modulate cytoplasmic transport processes, but how local transport dynamics depends on the highly heterogeneous intracellular organization of F-actin and microtubules is poorly understood. Here we use a novel delivery and functionalization strategy to utilize quantum dots (QDs) as probes for transport dynamics in different sub-cellular environments. Rapid imaging of non-functionalized QDs revealed two populations with a 100-fold difference in diffusion constant. Depolymerization of actin increased the fast diffusing fraction, suggesting that slow QDs are trapped inside the actin network. When nanobody-functionalized QDs were targeted to different kinesin motor proteins and moved over microtubules, they did not experience strong actin-induced transverse displacements, as suggested previously. Only kinesin-1 bound QDs displayed subtle directional fluctuations, because the specific subset of stable microtubules used by this motor underwent prominent undulations. Using actin-targeting agents we found that the actin network suppresses most microtubule shape remodeling, rather than promoting them. These results demonstrate how the spatial and structural heterogeneity of the cytoskeleton imposes large variations in non-equilibrium intracellular dynamics.', u'/content/early/2016/11/23/089284', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Utrecht University;', u'University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf']]
[u'Super-resolution microscopy of the \u03b2-carboxysome reveals a homogenous matrix', ['Matthew J Niederhuber', 'Talley J Lambert', 'Clarence Yapp', 'Pamela A. Silver', 'Jessica K Polka'], u'November 23, 2016.', u'Carbon fixation in cyanobacteria makes a major contribution to the global carbon cycle. The cyanobacterial carboxysome is a proteinaceous microcompartment that protects and concentrates the carbon-fixing enzyme RuBisCO in a paracrystalline lattice, making it possible for these organisms to fix CO2 from the atmosphere. The protein responsible for the organization of this lattice in beta-type carboxysomes of the freshwater cyanobacterium Synechococcus elongatus, CcmM, occurs in two isoforms thought to localize differentially within the carboxysome matrix. Here, we use widefield timelapse and 3D-structured illumination microscopy (3D-SIM) to study the recruitment and localization of these two isoforms. We demonstrate that this super-resolution technique is capable of successfully resolving the outer protein shell of the carboxysome from its internal cargo. We develop an automated analysis pipeline to analyze and quantify 3D-SIM images and generate a population level description of carboxysome shell protein, RuBisCO, and CcmM isoform localization. We find that both CcmM isoforms colocalize in space and time, prompting a revised model of the internal arrangement of the \u03b2-carboxysome.', u'/content/early/2016/11/23/086090', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Harvard Medical School']]
[u'Premature termination codons signaled targeted repair of frameshift mutation by endogenous RNA-directed gene editing', ['Xiaolong Wang', 'Haibo Peng', 'Chunyan Li', 'Xuxiang Wang', 'Yalei Wang', 'Gang Chen', 'Jianye Zhang'], u'November 23, 2016.', u'At present, the mechanism for the identification and repair of frameshift mutation is unknown at the molecular level. Here we report that in E. coli a frameshift mutation was repaired spontaneously in a precisely targeted manner. Genome resequencing showed that the revertants\u2032 genome is not more variable than the wild-type genome, while transcriptome analysis showed that genes, proteins and pathways for RNA editing, mismatch repair and homologous recombination were upregulated. We proposed a new model for autonomous gene repair, RNA-directed Gene Editing (RdGE): in mRNA surveillance the nonsense mRNAs were recognized through PTC signaling, edited and used to direct the repair of the faulty coding DNA sequence. The RdGE pathway is highly conserved among species, which may revise our view on central dogma, change our perspective on molecular evolution and genetic engineering.', u'/content/early/2016/11/23/069971', [u'Genetics'], [u'Ocean University of China']]
