[u'Flexibility and design: conformational heterogeneity along the evolutionary trajectory of a redesigned ubiquitin', ['Justin T Biel', 'Michael C Thompson', 'Christian N Cunningham', 'Jacob E Corn', 'James S Fraser'], u'October 17, 2016.', u'Although protein design has been used to introduce new functions, designed variants generally only function as well as natural proteins after rounds of laboratory evolution. One possibility for this pattern is that designed mutants frequently sample nonfunctional conformations. To test this idea, we exploited advances in multiconformer modeling of room temperature X-ray data collection on redesigned ubiquitin variants selected for increasing binding affinity to the deubiquitinase USP7. Initial core mutations disrupt natural packing and lead to increased flexibility. Additional, experimentally selected mutations quenched conformational heterogeneity through new stabilizing interactions. Stabilizing interactions, such as cation-pi stacking and ordered waters, which are not included in standard protein design energy functions, can create specific interactions that have long range effects on flexibility across the protein. Our results suggest that increasing flexibility may be a useful strategy to escape local minima during initial directed evolution and protein design steps when creating new functions.', u'/content/early/2016/10/17/081646', [], [u'UCSF;', u'Genentech;', u'UC Berkeley']]
[u'Hierarchical Evolutionary Preferences Explain Discrepancies in Expected Utility Theory', ['Michael Holton Price', 'James Holland Jones'], u'October 17, 2016.', u'The standard axiomatic theory of rationality posits that agents order preferences according to the average utilities associated with the different choices. Expected Utility Theory has repeatedly failed as a predictive theory of the choice behavior, as reflected in the enormous new literature in behavioral economics. A frequent thread in this literature is that apparently irrational behaviors in contemporary contexts may have once served important functions, but there has been little attempt to formalize the relationship between evolutionary fitness and choice behavior. Biological agents should maximize fitness, but fitness itself is not a reasonable choice variable since its time-scale exceeds the lifespan of the decision maker. Consequently, organisms use proximate motivational systems that work on appropriate time-scales and are amenable to feedback and learning. We develop an evolutionary principal-agent model in which individuals maximize a set of proximal choice variables, the interests of which are aligned with fitness. We show that age-specific demographic rates can be used as choice variables. The solution to our model yields probability weightings similar to Cumulative Prospect Theory and Rank-Depended Expected Utility Theory. The pessimistic probability weighting characteristic of these models emerges naturally in an evolutionary framework because of extreme intolerance to zeros in multiplicative growth processes. We show that even under a model of constant absolute risk aversion for choice variables at the proximate level, agents are highly risk-averse at the lowest levels of consumption and suggest a consistency with empirical research on the risk preferences of the poor.', u'/content/early/2016/10/17/081570', [], [u'Pennsylvania State University;', u'Stanford University']]
[u'Neuropilin 1 sequestration by neuropathogenic mutant glycyl-tRNA synthetase is permissive to vascular development and homeostasis', ['James Nicholas Sleigh', 'Adriana Gomez-Martin', 'Giampietro Schiavo'], u'October 17, 2016.', u'It remains a mystery how dominantly inherited mutations in the housekeeping gene GARS, which encodes glycyl-tRNA synthetase (GlyRS), mediate selective peripheral nerve toxicity resulting in the currently incurable Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2D (CMT2D). A recent study identified the transmembrane receptor protein neuropilin 1 (Nrp1) as a substrate for aberrant extracellular binding of mutant GlyRS. Formation of the Nrp1/mutant GlyRS complex antagonises the interaction of Nrp1 with one of its main natural ligands, vascular endothelial growth factor-A (VEGF-A), contributing to neurodegeneration. Reduced binding of Nrp1 to VEGF-A is known to disrupt blood vessel development and growth. We therefore analysed capillary architecture at early and later symptomatic time points in CMT2D mouse muscles, retina, and sciatic nerve, as well as in embryonic hindbrain. Assessing capillary diameter, density, and branching, we observed no differences between wild-type and mutant animals from embryonic development to three months, spanning the duration over which numerous sensory and neuromuscular phenotypes manifest. This work indicates that mutant GlyRS-mediated disruption of Nrp1/VEGF-A signalling is permissive to capillary maturation and maintenance in CMT2D mice.', u'/content/early/2016/10/17/081513', [], [u'University College London']]
[u'FISH-ing for captured contacts: towards reconciling FISH and 3C', ['Geoff Fudenberg', 'Maxim Imakaev'], u'October 17, 2016.', u'Deciphering how the one-dimensional information encoded in a genomic sequence is read out in three-dimensions is a pressing contemporary challenge. Chromosome conformation capture (3C) and fluorescence in-situ hybridization (FISH) are two popular technologies that provide important links between genomic sequence and 3D chromosome organization.  However, how to integrate views from 3C, or genome-wide Hi-C, and FISH is far from solved. We first discuss what each of these methods measure by reconsidering available matched experimental data for Hi-C and FISH. Using polymer simulations, we then demonstrate that contact frequency is distinct from average spatial distance. We show this distinction can create a seemingly-paradoxical relationship between 3C and FISH. Finally, we consider how the measurement of specific interactions between chromosomal loci might be differentially affected by the two technologies. Together, our results have implications for future attempts to cross-validate and integrate 3C and FISH, as well as for developing models of chromosomes.', u'/content/early/2016/10/17/081448', [], [u'MIT']]
[u'Overlapping long sequence reads: Current innovations and challenges in developing sensitive, specific and scalable algorithms', ['Justin Chu', 'Hamid Mohamadi', 'Rene Warren', 'Chen Yang', 'Inanc Birol'], u'October 17, 2016.', u'Identifying overlaps between error-prone long reads, specifically those from Oxford Nanopore Technologies (ONT) and Pacific Biosciences (PB), is essential for certain downstream applications, including error correction and de novo assembly. Though akin to the read-to-reference alignment problem, read-to-read overlap detection is a distinct problem that can benefit from specialized algorithms that perform efficiently and robustly on high error rate long reads. Here, we review the current state-of-the-art read-to-read overlap tools for error-prone long reads, including BLASR, DALIGNER, MHAP, GraphMap, and Minimap. These specialized bioinformatics tools differ not just in their algorithmic designs and methodology, but also in their robustness of performance on a variety of datasets, time and memory efficiency, and scalability. We highlight the algorithmic features of these tools, as well as their potential issues and biases when utilizing any particular method. We benchmarked these tools, tracking their resource needs and computational performance, and assessed the specificity and precision of each. The concepts surveyed may apply to future sequencing technologies, as scalability is becoming more relevant with increased sequencing throughput.', u'/content/early/2016/10/17/081596', [], [u'Michael Smith Genome Sciences Centre']]
[u'Asexual but not clonal: evolutionary processes in populations with automictic reproduction', ['Jan Engelstaedter'], u'October 17, 2016.', u'Many parthenogenetically reproducing animals produce offspring not clonally but through different mechanisms collectively referred to as automixis. Here, meiosis proceeds normally but is followed by the fusion of meiotic products that restores diploidy. This mechanism typically leads to a reduction in heterozygosity among the offspring compared to the mother. Following a derivation of the rate at which heterozygosity is lost at one and two loci, depending on the number of crossovers between loci and centromere, a number of models are developed to gain a better understanding of basic evolutionary processes in automictic populations. Analytical results are obtained for the expected equilibrium neutral genetic diversity, mutation-selection balance, selection with overdominance, the rate of spread of beneficial mutations, and selection on crossover rates. These results are complemented by numerical investigations elucidating how associative overdominance (two off-phase deleterious mutations at linked loci behaving like an overdominant locus) can in some cases maintain heterozygosity for prolonged times, and how clonal interference affects adaptation in automictic populations. These results suggest that although automictic populations are expected to suffer from the lack of gene shuffling with other individuals, they are nevertheless in some respects superior to both clonal and outbreeding sexual populations in the way they respond to beneficial and deleterious mutations. Implications for related genetic systems such as intratetrad mating, clonal reproduction, selfing as well as different forms of mixed sexual and automictic reproduction are discussed.', u'/content/early/2016/10/17/081547', [], [u'The University of Queensland, Australia']]
[u'The effects of increasing the number of taxa on inferences of molecular convergence', ['Gregg W.C. Thomas', 'Matthew W. Hahn', 'Yoonsoo Hahn'], u'October 17, 2016.', u'Convergent evolution provides insight into the link between phenotype and genotype. Recently, large-scale comparative studies of convergent evolution have become possible, but researchers are still trying to determine the best way to design these types of analyses. One aspect of molecular convergence studies that has not yet been investigated is how taxonomic sample size affects inferences of molecular convergence. Here we show that increased sample size decreases the amount of inferred molecular convergence associated with the three convergent transitions to a marine environment in mammals. The sampling of more taxa - both with and without the convergent phenotype - reveals that alleles associated only with marine mammals in small datasets are actually more widespread, or are not shared by all marine species. The sampling of more taxa also allows finer resolution of ancestral substitutions, revealing that they are not in fact on lineages leading to solely marine species. We revisit a previous study on marine mammals and find that only 7 of the reported 43 genes with convergent substitutions still show signs of convergence with a larger number of background species. However, 4 of those 7 genes also showed signs of positive selection in the original analysis and may still be good candidates for adaptive convergence. Though our study is framed around the convergence of marine mammals, we expect our conclusions on taxonomic sampling are generalizable to any study of molecular convergence.', u'/content/early/2016/10/17/081612', [], [u'Indiana University Bloomington;', u'Chung-Ang University']]
[u'A Probabilistic Approach to the Detection and Diagnosis of Obstructive Sleep Apnea and Its Environmental Factors Using Chest Movement Analysis, Recursive Noise Reduction and Machine Learning Algorithms.', ['Raj Ramnani', 'Anshul Tripathi'], u'October 17, 2016.', u'In a novel approach to diagnose Obstructive Sleep Apnea, electronic components, such as an Arduino Mega, a Bluetooth Transceiver, an accelerometer, and a air-aulity sensor, were put together to create a wearable that would detect the frequency of apnea events, detect and diagnose the disorder, and sound an alarm when necessary. A primary consideration was to make the mechanism accessible and affordable, and in doing so, lower the cases of Obstructive Sleep Apnea that go undiagnosed due to the cost and inconvenience associated with the traditional diagnosis method: a Polysomnogram. Bluetooth capability was an additional consideration so that the device would transmit data directly to an android smartphone, eliminating the need for an additional output mechanism. The total cost of the device, quite surprisingly, did not exceed $30, and therein rendered the device an accessible, affordable mechanism for diagnosis. Tests of the device on diagnosed patients yielded data consistent with the diagnosis, with a few false positives as a result of the excessive sensitivity of the sensors.', u'/content/early/2016/10/17/080515', [], [u'Jayshree Periwal International School;', u'PACE Junior Science College']]
[u'Aer is a family of Energy-Taxis Receptors in Pseudomonas which also involves Aer-2 and CttP', ['Sean Booth', 'Raymond J Turner'], u'October 17, 2016.', u"Energy-taxis by Pseudomonas species allows swimming towards optimal environments for generating cellular energy, precluding the need to sense carbon sources and oxygen. Aerotaxis, which has been taken to mean swimming towards oxygen or a source of metabolizable carbon has been attributed to the methyl-accepting chemotaxis protein Aer. In P. aeruginosa McpB (Aer-2) also contributes and may directly sense oxygen whereas in P. putida the second of three Aer energy-taxis sensor homologs, 'Aer2' is the key receptor. Here we sought to disentangle the ambiguity between aerotaxis and energy-taxis and between McpB (Aer-2) and Aer2. Phylogenetic characterization of sequences from a wide range of Pseudomonas species revealed that Aer homologs have been duplicated and horizontally transferred within the genus but can be divided into 5 groups. Phenotypic characterization in P. pseudoalcaligenes KF707, which has 3 Aer homologs and McpB showed that all homologs as well as McpA (CttP) and McpB (Aer-2) contribute to energy-taxis, though the most ancestral Aer homolog is key but not essential to this behaviour. As McpB (Aer-2) is rare in the genus, these results indicate that energy-taxis and aerotaxis are linked but distinct behaviours and that energy-taxis in Pseudomonas involves more genes than previously thought.", u'/content/early/2016/10/17/081455', [], [u'University of Calgary']]
[u'Refinement of intraperitoneal injection of sodium pentobarbital for euthanasia in laboratory rats (Rattus norvegicus)', ['K Zatroch', 'C G Knight', 'J Reimer', 'Daniel SJ Pang'], u'October 17, 2016.', u'Background: The Canadian Council on Animal Care and American Veterinary Medical Association classify intraperitoneal (IP) pentobarbital as an acceptable euthanasia method in rats. However, federal guidelines do not exist for a recommended dose or volume and IP euthanasia has been described as unreliable, with misinjections leading to variable success in ensuring a timely death. The aims of this study were to assess and improve efficacy and consistency of IP euthanasia.  Methods: In a randomized, blinded study, 51 adult female Sprague-Dawley rats (170-495 g) received one of four treatments: low-dose low-volume (LL) IP pentobarbital (n = 13, 200 mg/kg pentobarbital), low-dose high-volume (LH) IP pentobarbital (n = 14, 200 mg/kg diluted 1:3 with phosphate buffered saline), high-dose high-volume (HH, n = 14, 800 mg/kg pentobarbital), or saline. Times to loss of righting reflex (LORR) and cessation of heartbeat (CHB) were recorded. To identify misinjections, necropsy examinations were performed on all rats. Video recordings of LL and HH groups were analyzed for pain-associated behaviors. Between-group comparisons were performed with 1-way ANOVA and Games-Howell post hoc tests. Variability for CHB was assessed by coefficient of variation (CV) calculation.  Results: The fastest euthanasia method (CHB) was HH (283.7 \xb1 38 s), compared with LL (485.8 \xb1 140.7 s, p = 0.002) and LH (347.7 \xb1 72.0 s, p = 0.039). Values for CV were: HH, 13.4%; LH, 20.7%; LL, 29.0%. LORR time was longest in LL (139.5 \xb1 29.6 s), compared with HH (111.6 \xb1 19.7 s, p = 0.046) and LH (104.2 \xb1 19.3 s, p = 0.01). Misinjections occurred in 15.7% (8/51) of euthanasia attempts. Pain-associated behavior incidence ranged from 36% (LL) to 46% (HH).  Conclusion: These data illustrate refinement of this euthanasia technique. Both dose and volume contribute to speed of death with IP pentobarbital and an increase in volume alone does not significantly reduce variability. The proportion of misinjections was similar to that of previous studies.', u'/content/early/2016/10/17/081414', [], [u'CARE Centre Animal Hospital;', u'Veterinary Clinical & Diagnostic Sciences, University of Calgary;', u'University of Calgary']]
[u'Whole genome resequencing of a laboratory-adapted Drosophila melanogaster population sample', ['William P. Gilks', 'Tanya M Pennell', 'Ilona Flis', 'Matthew T Webster', 'Edward H. Morrow'], u'October 17, 2016.', u"As part of a study into the molecular genetics of sexually dimorphic complex traits, we used next-generation sequencing to obtain data on genomic variation in an outbred laboratory-adapted fruit fly (Drosophila melanogaster) population. We successfully resequenced the whole genome of 2 females from the Berkeley reference line (BDGP6/dm6), and 220 hemiclonal females that were heterozygous for the same reference line genome, and a unique haplotype from the outbred base population (LHM). The use of a static and known genetic background enabled us to obtain sequences from whole-genome phased haplotypes. We used a BWA-Picard-GATK pipeline for mapping sequence reads to the dm6 reference genome assembly, at a median depth-of coverage of 31X, and have made the resulting data publicly-available in the NCBI Short Read Archive (BioProject PRJNA282591). Haplotype Caller discovered and genotyped 1,726,931 genetic variants (SNPs and indels, <200bp in length).  Additionally, we used GenomeStrip/2.0 to discover and genotype 167 large structural variants (1-100Kb in size). Sequence data and quality-filtered genotype data are publicly-available at NCBI (Short Read Archive, dbSNP and dbVar). We have also released the unfiltered genotype data, and the code and logs for data processing, summary statistics, and graphs, via the research data repository, Zenodo, (https://zenodo.org/, 'Sussex Drosophila Sequencing' community).", u'/content/early/2016/10/17/081554', [], [u'University of Sussex;', u'University of Uppsala']]
[u'FIDDLE: An integrative deep learning framework for functional genomic data inference', ['Umut Eser', 'L. Stirling Churchman'], u'October 17, 2016.', u'Numerous advances in sequencing technologies have revolutionized genomics through generating many types of genomic functional data. Statistical tools have been developed to analyze individual data types, but there lack strategies to integrate disparate datasets under a unified framework. Moreover, most analysis techniques heavily rely on feature selection and data preprocessing which increase the difficulty of addressing biological questions through the integration of multiple datasets. Here, we introduce FIDDLE (Flexible Integration of Data with Deep LEarning) an open source data-agnostic flexible integrative framework that learns a unified representation from multiple data types to infer another data type. As a case study, we use multiple Saccharomyces cerevisiae genomic datasets to predict global transcription start sites (TSS) through the simulation of TSS-seq data. We demonstrate that a type of data can be inferred from other sources of data types without manually specifying the relevant features and preprocessing. We show that models built from multiple genome-wide datasets perform profoundly better than models built from individual datasets. Thus FIDDLE learns the complex synergistic relationship within individual datasets and, importantly, across datasets.', u'/content/early/2016/10/17/081380', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Harvard Medical School']]
[u'Rapid evolution of female-biased genes among four species of Anopheles malaria mosquitoes', ['Francesco Papa', 'Nikolai Windbichler', 'Robert M. Waterhouse', 'Alessia Cagnetti', "Rocco D'Amato", 'Tania Presampieri', 'Mara K.N. Lawniczak', 'Tony Nolan', 'Philippos Aris A. Papathanos'], u'October 17, 2016.', u'Understanding how phenotypic differences between males and females arise from the sex-biased expression of nearly identical genomes can often reveal important insights into the biology and evolution of a species. Among Anopheles mosquito species, these phenotypic differences include vectorial capacity, as it is only females that blood feed and thus transmit human malaria. Here, we use RNA-seq data from multiple tissues of four vectors spanning the Anopheles phylogeny to explore the genomic and evolutionary properties of sex-biased genes. We find that in these mosquitoes, in contrast to what has been found in many other organisms, female-biased genes are more rapidly evolving in sequence, expression, and genic turnover, than male-biased genes. Our results suggests that this atypical pattern may be due to the combination of sex-specific life history challenges encountered by females, such as blood feeding. Furthermore, female propensity to only mate once in nature in male swarms likely diminishes sexual selection of post-reproductive traits related to sperm competition among males. We also develop a comparative framework to systematically explore tissue- and sex-specific splicing, to document its conservation throughout the genus and identify a set of candidate genes for future functional analyses of sex-specific isoform usage. Finally, our data reveals that the deficit of male-biased genes on the X chromosomes in Anopheles is a conserved feature in this genus and can be directly attributed to chromosome-wide transcriptional regulation that demasculinizes the X in male reproductive tissues.', u'/content/early/2016/10/17/081620', [], [u'University of Perugia;', u'Imperial College London;', u'University of Geneva Medical School and Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics; MIT;', u'University of Perugia and PoloGGB;', u'Welcome Trust Sanger Institute']]
[u'SweGen: A whole-genome map of genetic variability in a cross-section of the Swedish population', ['Adam Ameur', 'Johan Dahlberg', 'Pall Olason', 'Francesco Vezzi', 'Robert Karlsson', 'Par Lundin', 'Huiwen Che', 'Jessada Thutkawkorapin', 'Andreas Kusalananda Kahari', 'Mats Dahlberg', 'Johan Viklund', 'Jonas Hagberg', 'Niclas Jareborg', 'Inger Jonasson', 'Asa Johansson', 'Sverker Lundin', 'Daniel Nilsson', 'Bjorn Nystedt', 'Patrik Magnusson', 'Ulf Gyllensten'], u'October 17, 2016.', u'Here we describe the SweGen dataset, a high-quality map of genetic variation in the Swedish population. This data represents a basic resource for clinical genetics laboratories as well as for sequencing-based association studies, by providing information on the frequencies of genetic variants in a cohort that is well matched to national patient cohorts. To select samples for this study, we first examined the genetic structure of the Swedish population using high-density SNP-array data from a nation-wide population based cohort of over 10,000 individuals. From this sample collection, 1,000 individuals, reflecting a cross-section of the population and capturing the main genetic structure, were selected for whole genome sequencing (WGS). Analysis pipelines were developed for automated alignment, variant calling and quality control of the sequencing data. This resulted in a whole-genome map of aggregated variant frequencies in the Swedish population that we hereby release to the scientific community.', u'/content/early/2016/10/17/081505', [u'Genetics'], [u'Science for Life Laboratory, Department of Immunology, Genetics and Pathology, Uppsala University;', u'Science for Life Laboratory, Department of Medical Sciences, Molecular Medicine, Uppsala University;', u'Science for Life Laboratory, Department of Cell and Molecular Biology, Uppsala University;', u'Science for Life Laboratory, Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics (DBB), Stockholm University;', u'Department of Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm;', u'Science for Life Laboratory, Department of Immunology, Genetics and Pathology, Uppsala University,;', u'Department of Molecular Medicine and Surgery, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm;', u'Science for Life Laboratory, Division of Gene Technology, Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm']]
[u'The effect of acquisition resolution on orientation decoding from V1 BOLD fMRI at 7 Tesla', ['Ayan Sengupta', 'Renat Yakupov', 'Oliver Speck', 'Stefan Pollmann', 'Michael Hanke'], u'October 17, 2016.', u'A decade after it was shown that the orientation of visual grating stimuli can be decoded from human visual cortex activity by means of multivariate pattern classification of BOLD fMRI data, numerous studies have investigated which aspects of neuronal activity are reflected in BOLD response patterns and are accessible for decoding. However, it remains inconclusive what the effect of acquisition resolution on BOLD fMRI decoding analyses is. The present study is the first to provide empirical ultra high-field fMRI data recorded at four spatial resolutions (0.8 mm, 1.4 mm, 2 mm, and 3 mm isotropic voxel size) on this topic -- in order to test hypotheses on the strength and spatial scale of orientation discriminating signals. We present detailed analysis, in line with predictions from previous simulation studies, about how the performance of orientation decoding varies with different acquisition resolutions. Moreover, we also examine different spatial filtering procedures and its effects on orientation decoding. Here we show that higher-resolution scans with subsequent down-sampling or low-pass filtering yield no benefit over scans natively recorded in the corresponding lower resolution regarding decoding accuracy. The orientation-related signal in the BOLD fMRI data is spatially broadband in nature, includes both high spatial frequency components, as well as large-scale biases previously proposed in the literature. Moreover, we found above chance-level contribution from large draining veins to orientation decoding. Acquired raw data were publicly released to facilitate further investigation.', u'/content/early/2016/10/17/081604', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Otto-von-Guericke-University Magdeburg']]
[u'A two-state photoconversion model predicts the spectral response dynamics of optogenetic systems', ['Evan J Olson', 'Constantine N Tzouanas', 'Jeffrey J Tabor'], u'October 17, 2016.', u'In optogenetics, light signals are used to control genetically engineered photoreceptors, and in turn manipulate biological pathways with unmatched precision. Recently, evolved photoreceptors with diverse in vitro-measured wavelength and intensity-dependent photoswitching properties have been repurposed for synthetic control of gene expression, proteolysis, and numerous other cellular processes. However, the relationship between the input light spectrum and in vivo photoreceptor response dynamics is poorly understood, restricting the utility of these optogenetic tools. Here, we advance a classic in vitro two-state photoreceptor model to reflect the in vivo environment, and combine it with simplified mathematical descriptions of signal transduction and output gene expression through our previously engineered green/red and red/far red photoreversible bacterial two-component systems (TCSs). Additionally, we leverage our recent open-source optical instrument to develop a workflow of spectral and dynamical characterization experiments to parameterize the model for both TCSs. To validate our approach, we challenge the model to predict experimental responses to a series of complex light signals very different from those used during parameterization. We find that the model generalizes remarkably well, predicting the results of all categories of experiments with high quantitative accuracy for both systems. Finally, we exploit this predictive power to program two simultaneous and independent dynamical gene expression signals in bacteria expressing both TCSs. This multiplexed gene expression programming approach will enable entirely new studies of how metabolic, signaling, and decision-making pathways integrate multiple gene expression signals. Additionally, our approach should be compatible with a wide range of optogenetic tools and model organisms.', u'/content/early/2016/10/17/081430', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'Rice University']]
[u'Automatic time-series phenotyping using massive feature extraction', ['Ben D Fulcher', 'Nick S Jones'], u'October 17, 2016.', u'Phenotype measurements frequently take the form of time series, but we currently lack a systematic method for relating these complex data streams to scientifically meaningful outcomes, such as relating the movement dynamics of a model organism to their genotype, or measurements of brain dynamics of a patient to their disease diagnosis. Here we report a new tool, hctsa, that automatically selects interpretable and useful properties of time series by comparing over 7700 time-series features drawn from diverse scientific literatures. Using exemplar applications to high throughput phenotyping experiments, we show how hctsa allows researchers to leverage decades of time-series research to understand and quantify informative structure in time-series data.', u'/content/early/2016/10/17/081463', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Monash University;', u'Imperial College London']]
[u'HOMINID: A framework for identifying associations between host genetic variation and microbiome composition', ['Joshua Lynch', 'Karen Tang', 'Joanna Sands', 'Margaret Sands', 'Evan Tang', 'Sayan Mukherjee', 'Dan Knights', 'Ran Blekhman'], u'October 17, 2016.', u'Summary: \u200bRecent studies have uncovered a strong effect of host genetic variation on the composition of host-associated microbiota. Here, we present HOMINID, a computational approach based on Lasso linear regression, that given host genetic variation and microbiome composition data, identifies host SNPs that are correlated with microbial taxa abundances. By using HOMINID on data from the Human Microbiome Project, we identified 2,127 human SNPs in which genetic variation is correlated with microbiome taxonomic composition in 15 body sites. We also present a tool for visualization of host-microbiome association network identified in HOMINID. Availability and implementation:\u200b Software and code are available at https://github.com/blekhmanlab/hominid\u200b, online visualization tool at http://z.umn.edu/genemicrobe\u200b.', u'/content/early/2016/10/17/081323', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Minnesota;', u'Duke University']]
[u'A Pilot Study: Development of a Reference Spatiotemporal Gait Data Set for Indian Subjects.', ['Raj Ramnani', 'Pooja Mukul', 'Siddhant Jain', 'Abhishek Tripathi'], u'October 17, 2016.', u'Interpretation of pathological gait has, for decades, offered insight into amputee anomalies and diseases such as cerebral palsy. Gait analysis has been actively used at the Bhagwan Mahaveer Viklang Sahatya Samiti for such purposes. The normative gait data used to compare data obtained from amputees, however, has been collected from laboratories under dissimilar conditions, skewing interpretation. Spatiotemporal gait parameters were extracted from 43 male Indian subjects using a 7.5m walkway and the BTS Bioengineering GAITLAB setup. Working under the hypothesis that a lack of cross-cultural validity was somewhat responsible for variations in normative gait, we attempted to develop a region-specific data set for use at the headquarters of the Jaipur Foot Organization Bhagwan Mahaveer Viklang Sahatya Samiti (BMVSS). Stratified random sampling was used to recruit subjects and measures were taken to ensure minimal effects of extraneous variables. Statistical analysis was performed on obtained data using one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) to gauge the effect age and ethnicity had on normative values of the parameters investigated. We found statistically significant p-values for a few spatiotemporal parameters in the analysis of variance for both age and ethnicity. While the results were much less significant than initially hypothesized, the study proved an efficient way to create a normative gait data set exclusively for use at the gait laboratory of the Jaipur Foot Organization, thereby eliminating potential erroneous interpretation of pathological gait when comparing said gait to normative gait data obtained in laboratories under dissimilar conditions.', u'/content/early/2016/10/17/080499', [u'Bioengineering'], [u'Jayshree Periwal International School;', u'Bhagwan Mahaveer Viklang Sahatya Samiti']]
[u'Hierarchical Frequency Tagging reveals neural markers of predictive coding under varying uncertainty', ['Noam Gordon', 'Roger Koenig-Robert', 'Naotsugu Tsuchiya', 'Jeroen vanBoxtel', 'Jakob Hohwy'], u'October 17, 2016.', u'Understanding the integration of top-down and bottom-up signals is essential for the study of perception. Current accounts of predictive coding describe this in terms of interactions between state units encoding expectations or predictions, and error units encoding prediction error. However, direct neural evidence for such interactions has not been well established. To achieve this, we combined EEG methods that preferentially tag different levels in the visual hierarchy: Steady State Visual Evoked Potential (SSVEP at 10Hz, tracking bottom-up signals) and Semantic Wavelet-Induced Frequency Tagging (SWIFT at 1.3Hz tracking top-down signals). Importantly, we examined intermodulation components (IM, e.g., 11.3Hz) as a measure of integration between these signals. To examine the influence of expectation and predictions on the nature of such integration, we constructed 50-second movie streams and modulated expectation levels for upcoming stimuli by varying the proportion of images presented across trials. We found SWIFT, SSVEP and IM signals to differ in important ways. SSVEP was strongest over occipital electrodes and was not modified by certainty. Conversely, SWIFT signals were evident over temporo- and parieto-occipital areas and decreased as a function of increasing certainty levels. Finally, IMs were evident over occipital electrodes and increased as a function of certainty. These results link SSVEP, SWIFT and IM signals to sensory evidence, predictions, prediction errors and hypothesis-testing - the core elements of predictive coding. These findings provide neural evidence for the integration of top-down and bottom-up information in perception, opening new avenues to studying such interactions in perception while constraining neuronal models of predictive coding.', u'/content/early/2016/10/17/081349', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Monash University;', u'The University of New South Wales']]
[u'Collapse Precedes Folding in Denaturant-Dependent Assembly of Ubiquitin', ['Dave Thirumalai', 'Govardhan Reddy'], u'October 17, 2016.', u'Despite the small size the folding of Ubiquitin (Ub), which plays an indispensable role in targeting proteins for degradation and DNA damage response, is complex. A number of experiments on Ub folding have reached differing conclusions regarding the relation between collapse and folding, and whether  intermediates are populated.  In order to resolve these vexing issues, we elucidate the denaturant-dependent thermodynamics and kinetics of Ub folding in low and neutral pH as a function of Guanidinium chloride and Urea using coarse-grained molecular simulations. The changes in the fraction of the folded Ub, and the radius of gyration (Rg) as a function of the denaturant concentration, [C], are in quantitative agreement with  experiments. Under conditions used in experiments, Rg of the unfolded state  at neutral pH changes only by \u2248 17% as the [GdmCl] decreases from 6 M to 0 M.    We predict that the extent of compaction of the unfolded state increases as temperature decreases. \nA two-dimensional folding landscape as a function  of Rg and a measure of similarity to the folded state reveals unambiguously that the native state assembly is preceded by collapse, as discovered in fast mixing experiments on several proteins. Analyses of the folding trajectories, under mildly denaturing conditions ([GdmCl]=1.0M or [Urea]=1.0M), shows that Ub folds by collision between preformed secondary structural elements involving kinetic intermediates that are primarily stabilized by long-range contacts. Our work explains the results of Small Angle X-Ray Scattering (SAXS) experiments on Ub quantitatively, and establishes that evolved globular proteins are poised to collapse. In the process, we explain the discrepancy between SAXS and single molecule fluorescent resonant energy transfer (smFRET) experiments, which have arrived at a contradicting conclusion concerning the collapse of polypeptide chains.', u'/content/early/2016/10/17/081299', [u'Biophysics'], [u'University of Texas at Austin;', u'Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore']]
[u'Shared neural basis for experiencing the beauty of human faces and visual art: Evidence from a meta-analyses of fMRI studies', ['Chuan-Peng Hu', 'Yi Huang', 'Simon B Eickhoff', 'Kaiping Peng', 'Jie Sui'], u'October 17, 2016.', u'Abstract\nThe nature of beauty has been debated in philosophy for thousands of years. Recently, cognitive neuroscientists have sought to elucidate this issue by exploring the neural basis for the experience of beauty. However, the neural representations of beauty remain poorly understood, especially regarding whether various forms of beauty, such as the beauty of faces and the beauty of art, share a common neural basis. Here, we addressed this question by performing an activation likelihood estimation (ALE) meta-analyses, which quantitatively summarized the published neuroimaging literature of beautiful faces and beautiful visual art, and a meta-analytic connectivity modeling (MACM) analyses, which delineated the co-activation patterns of brain regions of interest in the BrainMap database. We observed that the left medial orbitofrontal cortex (mOFC) was convergently activated by both beautiful visual art and beautiful faces, suggesting a common neural basis for beauty. In addition, the beauty of faces was exclusively associated with activity in the ACC and the gyrus rectus. These results indicate a shared neural basis for processing different forms of beauty.', u'/content/early/2016/10/17/081539', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Tsinghua University;', u'Institute of Neuroscience and Medicine (INM-1), Research Center Julich;', u'University of Bath']]
[u'Artificial Microbiome-Selection to Engineer Microbiomes That Confer Salt-Tolerance to Plants', ['Ulrich G Mueller', 'Thomas Juenger', 'Melissa Kardish', 'Alexis Carlson', 'Kathleen Burns', 'Chad Smith', 'David De Marais'], u'October 17, 2016.', u"We use a differential microbiome-propagation method to artificially select for rhizosphere microbiomes that confer salt-tolerance to the model grass Brachypodium distachyon. To optimize methods, we conceptualize microbiome-selection within a host-focused quantitative-genetic framework (Mueller & Sachs 2015), rather than within a multi-level selection framework ('artificial ecosystem selection' sensu Swenson et al 2000). Artificial microbiome-selection represents a special case of indirect selection that quantifies host phenotype (but does not measure microbiome properties directly) and uses host phenotype to infer presence of microbiomes that interact beneficially with a host; we have called this indirect-selection scheme previously host-mediated indirect selection on microbiomes. We improve on the methods of Swenson et al by modifying several protocol steps to maximize evolutionary changes due to differential microbiome-propagation, while minimizing some (but not all) ecological processes affecting microbiome composition. Specifically, our methods aim to improve microbiome perpetuation and response to artificial microbiome-selection by (a) controlling microbiome assembly when inoculating seeds; (b) low-carbon soil to enhance host-control during initial microbiome assembly and subsequent microbiome persistence; (c) microbiome-fractionation to propagate and select only on bacterial and viral (but not fungal) microbiome components; and (d) ramping of salt-stress between selection-cycles to minimize the chance of either under-stressing or over-stressing plants. Depending on salt-stress and control treatments, our protocol generates microbiomes that enhance plant fitness after only 1-3 rounds of host-mediated indirect selection on rhizosphere microbiomes. When testing microbiomes after nine rounds of differential microbiome propagation, the effect of bacterial microbiomes selected to confer tolerance to sodium-sulfate stress appears specific (these microbiomes do not confer such tolerance under aluminum-sulfate stress), but the effect of microbiomes conferring tolerance to aluminum-sulfate stress appears non-specific (selected microbiomes ameliorate both sodium- and aluminum-sulfate stresses). Ongoing metagenomic analyses of the artificially selected microbiomes will help elucidate metabolic properties of microbiomes that confer specific versus non-specific salt-tolerance to plants.", u'/content/early/2016/10/17/081521', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'University of Texas at Austin']]
[u'Semi-automated genome annotation using epigenomic data and Segway', ['Eric G. Roberts', 'Mickael Mendez', 'Coby Viner', 'Mehran Karimzadeh', 'Rachel C. W. Chan', 'Rachel Ancar', 'Davide Chicco', 'Jay R. Hesselberth', 'Anshul Kundaje', 'Michael M. Hoffman'], u'October 17, 2016.', u'Biochemical techniques measure many individual properties of chromatin along the genome. These properties include DNA accessibility (measured by DNase-seq) and the presence of individual transcription factors and histone modifications (measured by ChIP-seq). Segway is software that transforms multiple datasets on chromatin properties into a single annotation of the genome that a biologist can more easily interpret. This protocol describes how to use Segway to annotate the genome, starting with reads from a ChIP-seq experiment. It includes pre-processing of data, training the Segway model, annotating the genome, assigning biological meanings to labels, and visualizing the annotation in a genome browser.', u'/content/early/2016/10/17/080382', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Princess Margaret Cancer Centre;', u'University of Toronto;', u'University of British Columbia;', u'University of Colorado School of Medicine;', u'Stanford University']]
[u'Deconstructing cell size control into physiological modules in Escherichia coli', ['Fangwei Si', 'Dongyang Li', 'Sarah E Cox', 'John T Sauls', 'Omid Azizi', 'Amy B Schwartz', 'Michael J Erickstad', 'Yonggun Jun', 'Xintian Li', 'Suckjoon Jun'], u'October 17, 2016.', u'Cell size homeostasis is a basic aspect of coordinated biosynthesis during steady-state growth, yet it was unknown how physiological control and the cell cycle are linked. We show that the cellular resources required to start growth and one round of replication is constant. This "unit cell" size remains invariant under extensive perturbations to replication rate, transcription, translation, ribosome content, lipid and cell wall synthesis, surface-to-volume ratio of the cell, cell shape, and cell division. Instead, the unit cell is exclusively determined by the process of replication initiation. We demonstrate that cell size control in Escherichia coli is completely characterized by three functionally distinct modules - the unit cell, growth and the cell cycle. This leads to the general growth law that cell size is the sum of all unit cells. The general growth law explains how growth and the cell cycle are coordinated and quantitatively predicts cell size for any steady-state growth condition.', u'/content/early/2016/10/17/081422', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Physics, University of California San Diego;', u'Section of Molecular Biology, Division of Biology, University of California San Diego;', u'Department of Bioengineering, University of California San Diego']]
[u'Hypercomplex properties of Drosophila object detecting neurons', ['Mehmet F Keles', 'Mark A Frye'], u'October 17, 2016.', u'Many animals rely on vision to detect objects such as conspecifics, predators, and prey. Hypercomplex cells of the feline cortex and small target motion detectors of the dragonfly and hoverfly optic lobe demonstrate robust tuning for small objects with weak or no response to elongated edges or movement of the visual panorama. However, the relationship between anatomical, molecular, and functional properties of object detection circuitry is not understood. Here, we characterize a previously identified lobula columnar neuron (LC11) in Drosophila. By imaging calcium dynamics with two-photon excitation microscopy we show that LC11 responds to the nondirectional motion of a small object darker than the background, with little or no responses to static flicker, elongated bars, or panoramic gratings. LC11 dendrites reside at the boundary between GABAergic and cholinergic layers of the lobula, each dendrite spans enough columns to sample 75-degrees of visual space, yet the functional receptive field is only 20-degrees wide, and shows robust responses to an object spanning less than one 5-degree facet of the compound eye. The dendrites of neighboring LC11s encode object motion retinotopically, but the axon terminals fuse into a glomerular structure in the central brain where retinotopy is lost. Blocking inhibitory ionic currents abolishes small object sensitivity and facilitates responses to elongated bars and gratings. Our results reveal high acuity small object motion detection in the Drosophila optic lobe.', u'/content/early/2016/10/17/081398', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'UCLA']]
[u'The Divisive-Normalization Model of V1 Neurons: A Comprehensive Comparison of Physiological Data and Model Predictions', ['Tadamasa Sawada', 'Alexander A. Petrov'], u'October 17, 2016.', u'The physiological responses of simple and complex cells in the primary visual cortex (V1) have been studied extensively and modeled at different levels. At the functional level, the divisive normalization model (DNM, Heeger, 1992) has accounted for a wide range of single-cell recordings in terms of a combination of linear filtering, nonlinear rectification, and divisive normalization. We propose standardizing the formulation of the DNM and implementing it in software that takes static grayscale images as inputs and produces firing-rate responses as outputs. We also review a comprehensive suite of 30 empirical phenomena and report a series of simulation experiments that qualitatively replicate dozens of key experiments with a standard parameter set consistent with physiological measurements. This systematic approach identifies novel falsifiable predictions of the DNM. We show how the model simultaneously satisfies the conflicting desiderata of flexibility and falsifiability. Our key idea is that, while adjustable parameters are needed to accommodate the diversity across neurons, they must be fixed for a given individual neuron. This requirement introduces falsifiable constraints when this single neuron is probed with multiple stimuli. We also present mathematical analyses and simulation experiments that explicate some of these constraints.', u'/content/early/2016/10/17/081497', [u'Physiology'], [u'Higher School of Economics;', u'Ohio State University']]
[u'Deep Learning for Imaging Flow Cytometry: Cell Cycle Analysis of Jurkat Cells', ['Philipp Eulenberg', 'Niklas Koehler', 'Thomas Blasi', 'Andrew Filby', 'Anne E. Carpenter', 'Paul Rees', 'Fabian J. Theis', 'F. Alexander Wolf'], u'October 17, 2016.', u"Imaging flow cytometry combines the fluorescence sensitivity and high-throughput capabilities of flow cytometry with single-cell imaging, and hence provides high-volume data well-matched to the strengths of deep learning. We present DeepFlow, a data analysis workflow for imaging flow cytometry that combines deep convolutional neural networks with non-linear dimension reduction. DeepFlow uses learned features of the neural network to visualize, organize and biologically interpret single-cell data. Dissecting the cell cycle as a source of cell-to-cell variability is crucial for quantitative single-cell biology. We demonstrate DeepFlow for a large dataset of cell-cycling Jurkat cells. First, we reconstruct the cells' continuous progression through cell cycle from raw image data. This shows that DeepFlow can learn a continuous distance measure between categorical phenotypes. Second, we are able to detect and separate a subpopulation of dead cells, although the data set had been cleaned using established approaches. DeepFlow detects this morphologically abnormal subpopulation in an unsupervised manner. Third, in label-free classification of cell cycle phases, we reach a 6-fold reduction in error rate as compared to a recent approach based on boosting on a series of image features. In contrast to previous methods, DeepFlow's predictions are fast enough to consider integration with the imaging flow cytometry measurement process.", u'/content/early/2016/10/17/081364', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Helmholtz Center Munich;', u'Newcastle University;', u'Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT;', u'Swansea University']]
[u'Hi-C-constrained physical models of human chromosomes recover functionally-related properties of genome organization', ['Marco Di Stefano', 'Jonas Paulsen', 'Tonje G. Lien', 'Eivind Hovig', 'Cristian Micheletti'], u'October 17, 2016.', u'Combining genome-wide structural models with phenomenological data is at the forefront of efforts to understand the organizational principles regulating the human genome. Here, we use chromosome-chromosome contact data as knowledge-based constraints for large-scale three-dimensional models of the human diploid genome. The resulting models remain minimally entangled and acquire several functional features observed in vivo. We find, for instance, that gene-rich, active regions are drawn towards the nuclear center, while gene poor and lamina associated domains are pushed to the periphery. These and other  properties persist upon adding local contact constraints, suggesting their compatibility with non-local constraints for the genome organization. The results show that suitable combinations of data analysis and physical modelling can expose the unexpectedly rich functionally-related properties implicit in chromosome-chromosome contact data. Specific directions are suggested for further developments based on combining experimental data analysis and genomic structural modelling.', u'/content/early/2016/10/17/079558', [u'Biophysics'], [u'CNAG-CRG;', u'University of Oslo - Faculty of Medicine;', u'University of Oslo - Department of Mathematics;', u'University of Oslo - Department of Informatics;', u'SISSA']]
[u'Oscillatory integration windows in neurons', ['Nitin Gupta', 'Swikriti Saran Singh', 'Mark Stopfer'], u'October 17, 2016.', u'Oscillatory synchrony among neurons occurs in many species and brain areas, and has been proposed to help neural circuits process information. One hypothesis states that oscillatory input creates cyclic integration windows: specific times in each oscillatory cycle when postsynaptic neurons become especially responsive to inputs. With paired local field potential (LFP) and intracellular recordings and controlled stimulus manipulations we directly tested this idea in the locust olfactory system. We found that inputs arriving in Kenyon cells (KCs) sum most effectively in a preferred window of the oscillation cycle. With a computational model, we found that the non-uniform structure of noise in the membrane potential helps mediate this process. Further experiments performed in vivo demonstrated that integration windows can form in the absence of inhibition and at a broad range of oscillation frequencies. Our results reveal how a fundamental coincidence-detection mechanism in a neural circuit functions to decode temporally organized spiking.', u'/content/early/2016/10/17/081471', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur;', u'NIH']]
