[u'A framework to interpret short tandem repeat variation in humans', ['Melissa Gymrek', 'Thomas Willems', 'David E. Reich', 'Yaniv Erlich'], u'December 9, 2016.', u'Identifying regions of the genome that are depleted of mutations can reveal potentially deleterious variants. Short tandem repeats (STRs), comprised of repeating motifs of 1-6bp, are among the largest contributors of de novo mutations in humans and are implicated in a variety of human disorders. However, because of the challenges STRs pose to bioinformatics tools, studies of STR mutations have been limited to highly ascertained panels of several dozen loci. Here, we harnessed novel bioinformatics tools and an analytical framework to estimate mutation parameters at each STR in the human genome. We then developed a model of the STR mutation process that allows us to obtain accurate estimates of mutation parameters at each STR by correlating genotypes with local sequence heterozygosity. Finally, we applied our method to obtain robust estimates of the impact of local sequence features on mutation parameters and used this to create a framework for measuring constraint at STRs by comparing observed vs. expected mutation rates. Constraint scores identified known pathogenic variants with early onset effects. Our constraint metrics will provide a valuable tool for prioritizing pathogenic STRs in medical genetics studies.', u'/content/early/2016/12/09/092734.1', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of California San Diego;', u'MIT;', u'Harvard Medical School;', u'New York Genome Center']]
[u'Impact of implementation choices on quantitative predictions of cell-based computational models', ['Jochen Kursawe', 'Ruth E Baker', 'Alexander G Fletcher'], u'December 9, 2016.', u'\u2018Cell-based\u2019 models provide a powerful computational tool for studying the mechanisms underlying the growth and dynamics of biological tissues in health and disease. An increasing amount of quantitative data with cellular resolution has paved the way for the quantitative parameterisation and validation of such models. \nHowever, the numerical implementation of cell-based models remains challenging, and little work has been done to understand to what extent implementation choices may influence model predictions.\nHere, we consider the numerical implementation of a popular class of cell-based models called vertex models, used extensively to simulate epithelial tissues.\nIn two-dimensional vertex models, a tissue is approximated as a tessellation of polygons and the vertices of these polygons move due to mechanical forces originating from the cells. \nWe analyse how the model predictions may be affected by implementation-specific parameters, such as the size of the numerical time step. \nWe find that vertex positions and summary statistics are sensitive to multiple implementation parameters. \nFor example, the predicted tissue size decreases with decreasing cell cycle durations, and cell rearrangement may be suppressed by large time steps.\nThese findings are counter-intuitive and illustrate that model predictions need to be thoroughly analysed and implementation details carefully considered when applying cell-based computational models in a quantitative setting.', u'/content/early/2016/12/09/092924', [u'Biophysics'], [u'University of Oxford;', u'University of Sheffield']]
[u'SNVPhyl: A Single Nucleotide Variant Phylogenomics pipeline for microbial genomic epidemiology', ['Aaron Petkau', 'Philip Mabon', 'Cameron Sieffert', 'Natalie Knox', 'Jennifer Cabral', 'Mariam Iskander', 'Mark Iskander', 'Kelly Weedmark', 'Rahat Zaheer', 'Lee S Katz', 'Celine Nadon', 'Aleisha Reimer', 'Eduardo Taboada', 'Robert G Beiko', 'William Hsiao', 'Fiona Brinkman', 'Morag Graham', 'Gary Van Domselaar'], u'December 9, 2016.', u'Motivation: The recent widespread application of whole-genome sequencing (WGS) for microbial disease investigations has spurred the development of new bioinformatics tools, including a notable proliferation of phylogenomics pipelines designed for infectious disease surveillance and outbreak investigation. Transitioning the use of WGS data out of the research lab and into the front lines of surveillance and outbreak response requires user-friendly, reproducible, and scalable pipelines that have been well validated.\n\nResults: SNVPhyl (Single Nucleotide Variant Phylogenomics) is a bioinformatics pipeline for identifying high-quality SNVs and constructing a whole genome phylogeny from a collection of WGS reads and a reference genome. Individual pipeline components are integrated into the Galaxy bioinformatics framework, enabling data analysis in a user-friendly, reproducible, and scalable environment. We show that SNVPhyl can detect SNVs with high sensitivity and specificity and identify and remove regions of high SNV density (indicative of recombination). SNVPhyl is able to correctly distinguish outbreak from non-outbreak isolates across a range of variant-calling settings, sequencing-coverage thresholds, or in the presence of contamination.\n\nAvailability: SNVPhyl is available as a Galaxy workflow, Docker and virtual machine images, and a Unix-based command-line application. SNVPhyl is released under the Apache 2.0 license and available at <A href="http://snvphyl.readthedocs.io/">http://snvphyl.readthedocs.io/</A> or at <A href="https://github.com/phac-nml/snvphyl-galaxy">https://github.com/phac-nml/snvphyl-galaxy</A>.', u'/content/early/2016/12/09/092940', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'National Microbiology Laboratory, Public Health Agency of Canada;', u'University of Manitoba;', u'Health Canada - Bureau of Microbial Hazards;', u'Lethbridge Research and Development Centre;', u'Centers for Disease Control and Prevention;', u'Dalhousie University;', u'BC Public Health Microbiology and Reference Laboratory;', u'Simon Fraser University']]
[u'Antisocial rewarding in structured populations', ['Miguel dos Santos', 'Jorge Pena'], u'December 9, 2016.', u'Cooperation in collective action dilemmas usually breaks down in the absence of additional incentive mechanisms. This tragedy can be escaped if individuals have the possibility to invest in prosocial reward funds that are shared exclusively among cooperators.\nYet, the presence of defectors who do not contribute to the public good, but do reward themselves deters cooperation in the absence of additional countermeasures. Although a recent simulation study suggests that interactions in spatially structured populations are sufficient to prevent such antisocial rewarding from deterring cooperation, the exact role of spatial structure on the evolution of public goods cooperation with pool-rewarding remains unclear.\nHere, we develop an analytical model of public goods with prosocial and antisocial pool rewarding in spatially structured populations. We show that increasing reward funds facilitates the maintenance of prosocial rewarding but prevents its evolution from rare in spatially structured populations, and that spatial structure can sometimes hinder, rather than promote, the evolution of prosocial rewarding.\nThis is due to the fact that, counterintuitively, antisocial rewarding can be a more cooperative alternative than prosocial rewarding in some instances.\nOur results suggest that, even in spatially structured populations, additional mechanisms are required to prevent antisocial rewarding from deterring cooperation in public goods dilemmas.', u'/content/early/2016/12/09/092932', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Oxford;', u'Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology']]
[u'Easy and Accurate Reconstruction of Whole HIV Genomes from Short-Read Sequence Data', ['Chris Wymant', 'Francois Blanquart', 'Astrid Gall', 'Margreet Bakker', 'Daniela Bezemer', 'Nicholas J Croucher', 'Tanya Golubchik', 'Matthew Hall', 'Mariska Hillebregt', 'Swee Hoe Ong', 'Jan Albert', 'Norbert Bannert', 'Jacques Fellay', 'Katrien Fransen', 'Annabelle Gourlay', 'M. Kate Grabowski', 'Barbara Gunsenheimer-Bartmeyer', 'Huldrych Gunthard', 'Pia Kivela', 'Roger Kouyos', 'Oliver Laeyendecker', 'Kirsi Liitsola', 'Laurence Meyer', 'Kholoud Porter', 'Matti Ristola', 'Ard van Sighem', 'Guido Vanham', 'Ben Berkhout', 'Marion Cornelissen', 'Paul Kellam', 'Peter Reiss', 'Christophe Fraser'], u'December 9, 2016.', u"Next-generation sequencing has yet to be widely adopted for HIV. The difficulty of accurately reconstructing the consensus sequence of a quasispecies from reads (short fragments of DNA) in the presence of rapid between- and within-host evolution may have been a deterrent. In particular, mapping (aligning) reads to a reference sequence leads to biased loss of information; this bias can distort epidemiological and evolutionary conclusions. De novo assembly avoids this bias by effectively aligning the reads to themselves, producing a set of sequences called contigs. However contigs provide only a partial summary of the reads, misassembly may result in their having an incorrect structure, and no information is available at parts of the genome where contigs could not be assembled. To address these problems we developed the tool 'shiver' to preprocess reads for quality and contamination, then map them to a reference tailored to the sample using corrected contigs supplemented with existing references sequences. Run with two commands per sample, it can easily be used for large heterogeneous data sets. We use shiver to reconstruct the consensus sequence and minority variant information from paired-end short read data produced with the Illumina platform, for 65 existing publicly available samples and 50 new samples. We show the systematic superiority of mapping to shiver's constructed reference over mapping the same reads to the standard reference HXB2: an average of 29 bases per sample are called differently, of which 98.5% are supported by higher coverage. We also provide a practical guide to working with imperfect contigs.", u'/content/early/2016/12/09/092916', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Oxford;', u'Imperial College London;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'Academic Medical Center of the University of Amsterdam;', u'Stichting HIV Monitoring;', u'Karolinska Institutet;', u'Robert Koch Institute;', u'Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne;', u'Institute of Tropical Medicine, Antwerpen;', u'University College London;', u'John Hopkins University;', u'Robert Koch-Institute;', u'University of Zurich;', u'Helsinki University Hospital;', u'Laboratory of Immunoregulation, NIAID, NIH;', u'Universit\xe9 Paris Sud;', u'Kymab Ltd, Cambridge']]
[u"The Evolution of Primate Body Size: Left-skewness, Maximum Size, and Cope's Rule", ['Richard C. Tilquist', 'Lauren G Shoemaker', 'Kevin Bracy Knight', 'Aaron Clauset'], u'December 9, 2016.', u"Body size is a key physiological, ecological, and evolutionary characteristic of species. Within most major clades, body size distributions follow a right-skewed pattern where most species are relatively small while a few are orders of magnitude larger than the median size. Using a novel database of 742 extant and extinct primate species' sizes over the past 66 million years, we find that primates exhibit the opposite pattern: a left-skewed distribution. We investigate the long-term evolution of this distribution, first showing that the initial size radiation is consistent with plesiadapiformes (an extinct group with an uncertain ancestral relationship to primates) being ancestral to modern primates.  We calculate the strength of Cope's Rule, showing an initial tendency for descendants to increase in size relative to ancestors until the trend reverses 40 million years ago. We explore when the primate size distribution becomes left-skewed and study correlations between body size patterns and climactic trends, showing that across Old and New World radiations the body size distribution initially exhibits a right-skewed pattern. Left-skewness emerged early in Old World primates in a manner consistent with a previously unidentified possible maximum body size, which may be mechanistically related to primates' encephalization and complex social groups.", u'/content/early/2016/12/09/092866', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Colorado']]
[u'On the origin of nonequivalent states: how we can talk about preprints', ['Cameron Neylon', 'Damian Pattinson', 'Geoffrey Bilder', 'Jennifer Lin'], u'December 9, 2016.', u'Increasingly, preprints are at the center of conversations across the research ecosystem. But disagreements remain about the role they play. Do they "count" for research assessment? Is it ok to post preprints in more than one place? In this paper, we argue that these discussions often conflate two separate issues, the history of the manuscript and the status granted it by different communities. In this paper, we propose a new model that distinguishes the characteristics of the object, its "state", from the subjective "standing" granted to it by different communities. This provides a way to discuss the difference in practices between communities, which will deliver more productive conversations and facilitate negotiation on how to collectively improve the process of scholarly communications not only for preprints but other forms of scholarly contributions.', u'/content/early/2016/12/09/092817', [u'Scientific Communication and Education'], [u'Centre for Culture and Technology, Curtin University;', u'Research Square;', u'Crossref']]
[u'Evaluation on Efficient Detection of Structural Variants at Low Coverage by Long-Read Sequencing', ['Li Fang', 'Jiang Hu', 'Depeng Wang', 'Kai Wang'], u'December 9, 2016.', u'Structural variants (SVs) in human genome are implicated in a variety of human diseases. Long-read sequencing (such as those from PacBio) delivers much longer read lengths than short-read sequencing (such as those from Illumina) and may greatly improve SV detection. However, due to the relatively high cost of long-read sequencing, users are often faced with issues such as what coverage is needed and how to optimally use the aligners and SV callers. Here, we evaluated SV calling performance of three SV calling algorithms (PBHoney-Tails, PBHoney-Spots and Sniffles) under different PacBio coverages on two personal genomes, NA12878 and HX1. Our results showed that, at 10X coverage, 76% ~ 84% deletions and 80% ~ 92 % insertions in the gold standard set can be detected by PBHoney-Spots. Combining both PBHoney-Spots and Sniffles greatly increased sensitivity, especially under lower coverages such as 6X. We further evaluated the Mendelian errors on an Ashkenazi Jewish trio dataset with low-coverage whole-genome PacBio sequencing. In addition, to automate SV calling, we developed a computational pipeline called NextSV, which integrates PBhoney and Sniffles and generates the union (high sensitivity) or intersection (high specificity) call sets. Our results provide useful guidelines for SV identification from low coverage whole-genome PacBio data and we expect that NextSV will facilitate the analysis on SVs on long-read sequencing data.', u'/content/early/2016/12/09/092544', [u'Genomics'], [u'Grandomics Biosciences, Beijing 102206, China;', u'Institute for Genomic Medicine, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY 10032, USA; Departm']]
[u'Familial heterogeneity in breast cancer predisposition: a study of 22 Utah families', ["Elizabeth O'Brien", 'Richard A Kerber', 'Raymond L White'], u'December 9, 2016.', u'The problem of "missing heritability" in genome-wide analyses of complex diseases is thought to be attributable to some combination of: rare variants of moderate to large effect, common variants of very small effect, and epigenetic, epistatic, or shared environmental effects. Rare variants do not affect large numbers of people by definition, but identified genes and pathways frequently lead to important insights into pathogenesis, and become targets of chemoprevention or therapy. Family studies remain an efficient way to identify rare variants with sizable effects on disease risk. We present a genome-wide study of breast cancer in 22 large high-risk families including 154 women diagnosed with breast cancer. Appropriate marker spacing was achieved by simulation studies of  founder haplotypes to reduce the chance that linkage disequilibrium produced spurious linkage peaks. For each family, we generated 100  simulations of null linkage genome-wide to estimate the probability that individual results were due to chance. We identified a total of 12 putative susceptibility regions with per-family genome-wide probability < 0.05. These regions were located on 10 chromosomes; 10 of the 22 families showed linkage at these locations; two or more families showed linkage to 6 regions on 5 chromosomes (4q, 5q, 6p, 14q, 18p, and 18q). These results indicate that there is considerable heterogeneity among families in genomic regions and thus variants predisposing to breast cancer. Moreover, they suggest that uncommon high- or medium-risk genetic variants remain to be found, and that family designs can be an efficient way to identify them.', u'/content/early/2016/12/09/092841', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'University of Louisville;', u'University of California San Francisco']]
[u'Evidence for Philopatry and Homing in a New World Elapid Snake', ['Alexander S. Hall', 'Abigail M. K. Vazquez-Quinto', 'Antonio Ramirez-Velazquez', 'Eric N. Smith'], u'December 9, 2016.', u'Animal navigation allows individuals to efficiently find and use best available habitats. Despite the long history of research into well-studied taxa (e.g., pigeons, salmon, sea turtles), we know relatively little about squamate navigational abilities. Among snakes, documented philopatry (range maintenance) in a non-colubrid species has been rare. In this study, we document the first example of philopatry and homing in a new world elapid snake, Micrurus apiatus. Our data come from the first multi-year mark-recapture study of this species at the open urban preserve Zool\xf3gico Regional Miguel \xc1lvarez del Toro, in Tuxtla Guti\xe9rrez, Chiapas, Mexico. We show that on average snakes returned to within 144 m of their last capture point. By releasing snakes in one location, we noted that recaptured individuals preferentially returned to their last capture location, compared to a distribution of random locations in the park. We conclude with a preliminary discussion of the evolution of snake homing and potential mechanisms.', u'/content/early/2016/12/09/092833', [u'Zoology'], [u'The University of Texas at Arlington;', u'Zool\xf3gico Regional Miguel \xc1lvarez del Toro']]
[u'Direct and context-dependent effects of light, temperature, and phytoplankton shape bacterial community composition', ['Sara Paver', 'Angela Kent'], u'December 9, 2016.', u"Species interactions, environmental conditions, and stochastic processes work in concert to bring about changes in community structure. However, the relative importance of specific factors and how their combined influence affects community composition remain largely unclear. We conducted a multi-factorial experiment to 1) disentangle the direct and interaction-mediated effects of environmental conditions and 2) augment our understanding of how environmental context modulates species interactions. We focus on a planktonic system where interactions with phytoplankton effect changes in the composition of bacterial communities, and light and temperature conditions can influence bacteria directly as well as through their interactions with phytoplankton. Epilimnetic bacteria from two humic lakes were combined with phytoplankton assemblages from each lake ('home' or 'away') or a no-phytoplankton control and incubated for 5 days under all combinations of light (surface, ~25% surface irradiance) and temperature (5 levels from 10-25 degrees C). Observed light effects were primarily direct while phytoplankton and temperature effects on bacterial community composition were highly interdependent. The influence of temperature on aquatic bacteria was consistently mediated by phytoplankton and most pronounced for bacteria incubated with 'away' phytoplankton treatments, likely due to the availability of novel phytoplankton-derived resources. The effects of phytoplankton on bacterial community composition were generally increased at higher temperatures. Incorporating mechanisms underlying the observed interdependent effects of species interactions and environmental conditions into modeling frameworks may improve our ability to forecast ecological responses to environmental change.", u'/content/early/2016/12/09/091967', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign']]
[u'Yorkie is required to restrict the injury responses in planarians', ['Alexander Y.T. Lin', 'Bret J Pearson'], u'December 9, 2016.', u'Regeneration requires the precise integration of cues that initiate proliferation, direct differentiation, and ultimately re-pattern tissues to the proper size and scale. How these processes are integrated with wounding cues remains relatively unknown. The highly regenerative freshwater planarian is an ideal model to study these processes because it has a high capacity to regenerate and has stereotyped proliferative and transcriptional responses to injury. Here, we characterize the effector of the Hippo signalling cascade, yorkie, during planarian regeneration and its role in restricting early injury responses. In yki(RNAi) regenerating animals, proliferation and transcriptional wound injury responses are hyper-activated; the bimodal proliferation kinetics are heighted and prolonged, while the transcriptional injury responses are similarly augmented with dysregulated temporal patterns. We also uncovered bona fide and novel wound-induced genes by RNAseq that are primarily associated with tissue patterning. Indeed, a high proportion of non-wound- and wound-induced patterning molecules are mis-expressed in yki(RNAi), which we demonstrate is in part due to an expanded muscle population. These altered injury responses have consequential effects on regenerative outcomes, specifically sensing the size of a given injury and appropriately scaling organ and tissue sizes. Taken together, our results suggest that yki functions as a key node to integrate the injury responses of proliferation, apoptosis, injury-induced transcription, and patterning to coordinate regeneration.', u'/content/early/2016/12/09/092353', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'University of Toronto;', u'Hospital for Sick Children']]
[u'Paradoxes in Leaky Microbial Trade', ['Yoav Kallus', 'John Miller', 'Eric Libby'], u'December 9, 2016.', u"Microbes produce metabolic resources that are important for cell growth yet leak across membranes into the extracellular environment. Other microbes in the same environment can use these resources and adjust their own metabolic production accordingly---causing other resources to leak into the environment. The combined effect of these processes is an economy in which organismal growth and metabolic production are coupled to others in the community. We propose a model for the co-evolving dynamics of metabolite concentrations, production regulation, and population frequencies for the case of two cell types, each requiring and capable of producing two metabolites. In this model, beneficial trade relations emerge without any coordination, via individual-level production decisions that maximize each cell's growth rate given its perceived environment. As we vary production parameters of the model, we encounter three paradoxical behaviors, where a change that should intuitively benefit some cell type, actually harms it. (1) If a cell type is more efficient than its counterpart at producing a metabolite and becomes even more efficient, its frequency in the population can decrease. (2) If a cell type is less efficient than its counterpart at producing a metabolite but becomes less inefficient, the growth rate of the population can decrease. (3) Finally, if a cell type controls its counterpart's production decisions so as to maximize its own growth rate, the ultimate growth rate it achieves can be lower than if the two cell types each maximized their own growth. These three paradoxes highlight the complex and counter-intuitive dynamics that emerge in simple microbial economies.", u'/content/early/2016/12/09/092882', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Santa Fe Institute']]
[u'High-dimensional regression over disease subgroups', ['Frank Dondelinger', 'Sach Mukherjee'], u'December 9, 2016.', u"We consider high-dimensional regression over subgroups of observations. Our work is motivated by biomedical problems, where disease subtypes, for example, may differ with respect to underlying regression models, but sample sizes at the subgroup-level may be limited. We focus on the case in which subgroup-specific models may be expected to be similar but not necessarily identical. Our approach is to treat subgroups as related problem instances and jointly estimate subgroup-specific regression coefficients. This is done in a penalized framework, combining an l1 term with an additional term that penalizes differences between subgroup-specific coefficients. This gives solutions that are globally sparse but that allow information-sharing between the subgroups. We present algorithms for estimation and empirical results on simulated data and using Alzheimer's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and cancer datasets. These examples demonstrate the gains our approach can offer in terms of prediction and the ability to estimate subgroup-specific sparsity patterns.", u'/content/early/2016/12/09/092825', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Lancaster University;', u'German Centre for Neurodegenerative Diseases']]
[u'Genetic variation and gene expression across multiple tissues and developmental stages in a non-human primate', ['Anna J Jasinska', 'Ivette Zelaya', 'Susan K Service', 'Christine Peterson', 'Rita M Cantor', 'Oi-Wa Choi', 'Joseph DeYoung', 'Eleazar Eskin', 'Lynn A Fairbanks', 'Scott Fears', 'Allison Furterer', 'Yu S Huang', 'Vasily Ramensky', 'Christopher A Schmitt', 'Hannes Svardal', 'Matthew J Jorgensen', 'Jay R Kaplan', 'Diego Villar', 'Bronwen L Aken', 'Paul Flicek', 'Rishi Nag', 'Emily S Wong', 'John Blangero', 'Thomas D Dyer', 'Marina Bogomolov', 'Yoav Benjamini', 'George M Weinstock', 'Ken Dewar', 'Chiara Sabatti', 'Richard K Wilson', 'J David Jentsch', 'Wesley Warren', 'Giovanni Coppola', 'Roger P Woods', 'Nelson B Freimer'], u'December 9, 2016.', u'By analyzing multi-tissue gene expression and genome-wide genetic variation data in samples from a vervet monkey pedigree, we generated a transcriptome resource and produced the first catalogue of expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) in a non-human primate model. This catalogue contains more genome-wide significant eQTLs, per sample, than comparable human resources, and reveals sex and age-related expression patterns. Findings include a master regulatory locus that likely plays a role in immune function, and a locus regulating hippocampal long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) whose expression correlates with hippocampal volume. This resource will facilitate genetic investigation of quantitative traits, including brain and behavioral phenotypes relevant to neuropsychiatric disorders.', u'/content/early/2016/12/09/092874', [u'Genetics'], [u'UCLA;', u'MD Anderson Cancer Center;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'Wake Forest School of Medicine;', u'University of Cambridge;', u'EMBL-EBI;', u'UTHSCSA/UTRGV;', u'Technicon;', u'Tel Aviv University;', u'The Jackson Laboratory for Genomic Medicine;', u'McGill University;', u'Stanford University;', u'The McDonnell Genome Institute']]
[u'Simple adjustment of the sequence weight algorithm remarkably enhances PSI-BLAST performance', ['Toshiyuki Oda', 'Kyungtaek Lim', 'Kentaro Tomii'], u'December 9, 2016.', u'PSI-BLAST, an extremely popular tool for sequence similarity search, features the utilization of Position Specific Scoring Matrix (PSSM) constructed from a multiple sequence alignment (MSA). PSSM allows the detection of more distant homologs than a general amino acid substitution matrix does. An accurate estimation of the weights of sequences in an MSA is crucially important for PSSM construction. PSI-BLAST divides a given MSA into multiple blocks, for which sequence weights are calculated. When the block width becomes very narrow, the sequence weight calculation can be difficult.\nWe demonstrate that PSI-BLAST indeed generates a significant fraction of blocks having widths less than 5, thereby degrading the PSI-BLAST performance. We revised the code of PSI-BLAST to prevent the blocks from being narrower than a given minimum block width (MBW). We designate the modified application of PSI-BLAST as PSI-BLASTexB. When MBW is 25, PSI-BLASTexB notably outperforms PSI-BLAST consistently for three independent benchmark sets. The performance boost is even more drastic when an MSA, instead of a sequence, was used as a query.\nOur results demonstrate that the generation of narrow-width blocks during the sequence weight calculation is a critically important factor that restricts the PSI-BLAST search performance. By preventing narrow blocks, PSI-BLASTexB remarkably upgrades the PSI-BLAST performance.', u'/content/early/2016/12/09/092742', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'AIST']]
[u'In vivo magnetic recording of neuronal activity', ['Laure Caruso', 'Thomas Wunderle', 'Christopher Murphy Lewis', 'Joao Valadeiro', 'Vincent Trauchessec', 'Josue Trejo-Rosillo', 'Jose Pedro Amaral', 'Jianguang Ni', 'Claude Fermon', 'Susana Cardoso', 'Paulo Peixeiro Freitas', 'Pascal Fries', 'Myriam Pannetier-Lecoeur'], u'December 9, 2016.', u'Neuronal activity generates ionic flows and thereby both magnetic fields and electric\npotential differences, i.e. voltages. Voltage measurements at (sub)cellular, meso- and\nmacroscopic level constitute electrophysiology. However, each voltage recording suffers\nfrom the isolating and smearing properties of the tissue between source and sensor, is blind\nto ionic flow direction, and reflects the difference between two electrodes, complicating\ninterpretation, specifically of signal correlations. Magnetic field measurements could\novercome these limitations, but have been essentially limited to magnetoencephalography\n(MEG), using centimeter-sized, helium-cooled extracranial sensors. Here, we report on\nin-vivo magnetic recordings of neuronal activity in the visual cortex of cats with\nmagnetrodes, specially developed needle-shaped probes carrying micron-sized, non-cooled\nmagnetic sensors based on spin electronics. Event-related magnetic fields inside the\nneuropil were on the order of several nanoteslas, informing biophysically detailed neural\nnetwork models, MEG source models and efforts to measure neuronal magnetic fields by\nother means, e.g. through MRI.', u'/content/early/2016/12/09/092569', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'SPEC, CEA, CNRS, Universite Paris-Saclay, CEA Saclay;', u'Ernst Str\xfcngmann Institute (ESI) for Neuroscience in Cooperation with Max Planck Society;', u'Instituto de Engenharia de Sistemas de Computadores-Microsystems and Nanotechnology (INESC-MN)']]
[u'Genomic determinants of protein abundance variation in colorectal cancer cells', ['Theodoros I. Roumeliotis', 'Steven Paul Williams', 'Emanuel Goncalves', 'Fatemeh Zamanzad Ghavidel', 'Nanne Aben', 'Magali Michaut', 'Michael Schubert', 'James C. Wright', 'Mi Yang', 'Clara Alsinet', 'Rodrigo Dienstmann', 'Justin Guinney', 'Pedro Beltrao', 'Alvis Brazma', 'Oliver Stegle', 'David J. Adams', 'Lodewyk Wessels', 'Julio Saez-Rodriguez', 'Ultan McDermott', 'Jyoti S. Choudhary'], u'December 9, 2016.', u'Assessing the extent to which genomic alterations compromise the integrity of the proteome is fundamental in identifying the mechanisms that shape cancer heterogeneity. We have used isobaric labelling and tribrid mass spectrometry to characterize the proteomic landscapes of 50 colorectal cancer cell lines and to decipher the relationships between genomic and proteomic variation. The robust quantification of 12,000 proteins and 27,000 phosphopeptides revealed how protein symbiosis translates to a co-variome which is subjected to a hierarchical order and exposes the collateral effects of somatic mutations on protein complexes. Targeted depletion of key chromatin modifiers confirmed the transmission of variation and the directionality as characteristics of protein interactions. Protein level variation was leveraged to build drug response predictive models towards a better understanding of pharmacoproteomic interactions in colorectal cancer. Overall, we provide a deep integrative view of the molecular structure underlying the variation of colorectal cancer cells.', u'/content/early/2016/12/09/092767', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'European Molecular Biology Laboratory, European Bioinformatics Institute;', u'The Netherlands Cancer Institute;', u'European Molecular Biology Laborattory, European Bioinformatics Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Cam;', u'RWTH Aachen University;', u'Sage Bionetworks, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center;', u'Computational Cancer Biology, The Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam, The Netherlands']]
[u'Practical Use of Methods for Imputation of HLA Alleles from SNP Genotype Data', ['Allan Motyer', 'Damjan Vukcevic', 'Alexander Dilthey', 'Peter Donnelly', 'Gil McVean', 'Stephen Leslie'], u'December 9, 2016.', u'The human leukocyte antigen (HLA) genes play an essential role in immune function. Typing of HLA alleles is critical for transplantation and is informative for many disease associations. The high cost of accurate lab-based HLA typing has precluded its use in large-scale disease-association studies. The development of statistical methods to type alleles using linkage disequilibrium with nearby SNPs, called HLA imputation, has allowed large cohorts of individuals to be typed accurately, so that massive numbers of affected individuals and controls may be studied. This has resulted in many important findings. Several HLA imputation methods have been widely used, however their relative performance has not been adequately addressed. We have conducted a comprehensive study to evaluate the most widely used HLA imputation methods. We assembled a multi-ethnic panel of 10,561 individuals with SNP genotype data and lab-based typing of alleles at 11 HLA genes at two-field resolution, and used it to train and validate each method. Use of this panel leads to imputation accuracy far superior to what is currently publicly available. We present a highly-accurate new imputation method, HLA*IMP:03. We address the question of optimal use of HLA imputations in tests of genetic association, showing that it is usually not necessary to apply a probability threshold to achieve maximal power.  We also investigated the effect on accuracy of SNP density and population stratification at the continental level and show that neither of these are a significant concern.', u'/content/early/2016/12/09/091009', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Melbourne;', u'National Human Genome Research Institute, National Institutes of Health;', u'Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, University of Oxford']]
[u'DYNC1H1 mutations associated with neurological diseases compromise processivity of dynein-dynactin-cargo adaptor complexes', ['Ha Thi Hoang', 'Max A Schlager', 'Andrew P Carter', 'Simon L Bullock'], u'December 9, 2016.', u'Mutations in the human DYNC1H1 gene are associated with neurological diseases. DYNC1H1 encodes the heavy chain of cytoplasmic dynein-1, a 1.4 MDa motor complex that traffics organelles, vesicles and macromolecules towards microtubule minus ends. The effects of the DYNC1H1 mutations on dynein motility, and consequently their links to neuropathology, are not understood. Here, we address this issue using a recombinant expression system for human dynein coupled to single-molecule resolution in vitro motility assays. We functionally characterise 14 DYNC1H1 mutations identified in humans diagnosed with malformations in cortical development (MCD) or spinal muscular atrophy with lower extremity predominance (SMALED), as well as three mutations that cause motor and sensory defects in mice. Two of the human mutations, R1962C and H3822P, strongly interfere with the core mechanochemical properties of dynein. The remaining mutations selectively compromise the processive mode of dynein movement that is activated by binding to the accessory complex dynactin and the cargo adaptor BICD2. Mutations with the strongest effects on dynein motility in vitro are associated with MCD. The vast majority of mutations do not affect binding of dynein to dynactin and BICD2, and are therefore expected to result in linkage of cargoes to dynein-dynactin complexes that have defective long-range motility. This observation offers an explanation for the dominant effects of DYNC1H1 mutations in vivo. Collectively, our results suggest that compromised processivity of cargo-motor assemblies contributes to human neurological disease and provide insight into the influence of different regions of the heavy chain on dynein motility.', u'/content/early/2016/12/09/092791', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology']]
[u'MultiCellDS: a standard and a community for sharing multicellular data', ['Samuel H. Friedman', 'Alexander R.A. Anderson', 'David M. Bortz', 'Alexander G. Fletcher', 'Hermann B. Frieboes', 'Ahmadreza Ghaffarizadeh', 'David Robert Grimes', 'Andrea Hawkins-Daarud', 'Stefan Hoehme', 'Edwin F. Juarez', 'Carl Kesselman', 'Roeland M.H. Merks', 'Shannon M. Mumenthaler', 'Paul K. Newton', 'Kerri-Ann Norton', 'Rishi Rawat', 'Russell C. Rockne', 'Daniel Ruderman', 'Jacob Scott', 'Suzanne S. Sindi', 'Jessica L. Sparks', 'Kristin Swanson', 'David B. Agus', 'Paul Macklin'], u'December 9, 2016.', u'Cell biology is increasingly focused on cellular heterogeneity and multicellular systems. To make the fullest use of experimental, clinical, and computational efforts, we need standardized data formats, community-curated "public data libraries", and tools to combine and analyze shared data. To address these needs, our multidisciplinary community created MultiCellDS (MultiCellular Data Standard): an extensible standard, a library of digital cell lines and tissue snapshots, and support software. With the help of experimentalists, clinicians, modelers, and data and library scientists, we can grow this seed into a community-owned ecosystem of shared data and tools, to the benefit of basic science, engineering, and human health.', u'/content/early/2016/12/09/090696', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'University of Southern California;', u'Moffitt Cancer Center;', u'University of Colorado, Boulder;', u'University of Sheffield;', u'University of Louisville;', u'University of Oxford;', u'Mayo Clinic;', u'University of Leipzig;', u'Centrum Wiskunde & Informatica;', u'Johns Hopkins University;', u'City of Hope;', u'Cleveland Clinic;', u'University of California, Merced;', u'Miami University']]
[u'Phenotypic plasticity promotes recombination and gene clustering in periodic environments', ['Davorka Gulisija', 'Joshua Plotkin'], u'December 9, 2016.', u'The impact of changing environments on the evolution of genetic recombination is still unclear. While the Red Queen hypothesis provides a reasonable explanation for recombination, it requires coevolution with antagonistic species, such as host-parasite systems. We present a novel scenario for the evolution of recombination in changing environments: the genomic storage effect due to phenotypic plasticity. Using an analytic approximation and Monte Carlo simulations, we demonstrate that recombination evolves between a target locus that determines fitness, and a modifier locus that modulates the effects of alleles at the target. Evolution of recombination by this plasticity effect does not require antagonistic inter-specific interactions and, unlike in previous models, it occurs when only one target locus codes for a trait under selection.  Furthermore, if the effects of multiple target loci are modified by the same plasticity locus, then the recombination rate among the target loci will tend to decrease, clustering the loci that influence a trait. These results provide a novel scenario for the evolution of recombination, highlighting the importance of phenotypic plasticity for recombination modification.', u'/content/early/2016/12/09/092700', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Pennsylvania']]
[u'Phenotypic plasticity can facilitate evolutionary rescue', ['Oana Carja', 'Joshua B. Plotkin'], u'December 9, 2016.', u'Environmental variation is commonplace, but unpredictable. Populations that encounter a deleterious environment can sometimes avoid extinction by rapid evolutionary adaptation. Phenotypic plasticity,  whereby a single genotype can express multiple different phenotypes, might play an important role in rescuing such populations from extinction. This type of evolutionary bet-hedging need not confer a direct benefit to a single individual, but it may increase the chance of long-term survival of a lineage. Here we develop a population-genetic model to explore how partly heritable phenotypic variability influences the probability of evolutionary rescue and the mean duration of population persistence, in changing environments. We find that the probability of population persistence depends non-monotonically on the degree of phenotypic heritability between generations: some heritability can help avert extinction, but too much heritability removes any benefit of phenotypic plasticity. We discuss the implications of these results in the context of therapies designed to eradicate populations of pathogens or aberrant cellular lineages.', u'/content/early/2016/12/09/092718', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Pennsylvania']]
[u'The Dachsous/Fat/Four-jointed pathway implements axial long-range cell orientation', ['Federica Mangione', 'Enrique Martin-Blanco'], u'December 9, 2016.', u'Despite a cumulative body of knowledge describing short-range cell interactions in\nmorphogenetic processes, relatively little is known on the mechanism involved in the long-range spatial and temporal coordination of cells to build functional and structurally organized tissues. In particular, the attainment of a functionally optimized epithelia must require directional cues to instruct cell movements and cell orientations throughout the tissue field. In Drosophila, the adult epidermis of the abdominal segments is created de novo by the replacement of obsolete larval epidermal cells (LECs) by histoblasts (imaginal founder cells). As these proliferate, expand and fuse,\nthey uniformly organize orienting on the surface along the antero-posterior axis. We found that the coordinated, axially oriented changes in shape of histoblasts respond to a dynamic, yet stereotyped redesign of the epithelial field mediated by the Dachsous/Fat/Four-jointed (Ds/Ft/Fj) pathway. The establishment and refinement of the expression gradients of the atypical cadherins Ds and Ft result in their axial polarization across cell interfaces and differential adhesiveness.\nWe suggest that the role of Ds/Ft/Fj in long-range axially oriented planar cell alignment is a general function and that the regulation of the expression of its components would be crucial in the achievement of tissue uniformity in many other morphogenetic models or during tissue repair.', u'/content/early/2016/12/09/092650', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'IBMB (CSIC)']]
[u'LOCALIZER: subcellular localization prediction of plant and effector proteins in the plant cell', ['Jana Sperschneider', 'Ann-Maree Catanzariti', 'Kathleen DeBoer', 'Benjamin Petre', 'Donald Gardiner', 'Karam Singh', 'Peter Dodds', 'Jennifer Taylor'], u'December 9, 2016.', u'Pathogens are able to deliver effector proteins into plant cells to enable infection. Some effectors have been found to enter subcellular compartments by mimicking host targeting sequences. Although many computational methods exist to predict plant protein subcellular localization, they perform poorly for effectors. We introduce LOCALIZER for predicting plant and effector protein localization to chloroplasts, mitochondria, and nuclei. LOCALIZER shows greater prediction accuracy for chloroplast and mitochondrial targeting compared to other methods for 652 plant proteins. For 108 eukaryotic effectors, LOCALIZER outperforms other methods and predicts a previously unrecognized chloroplast transit peptide for the ToxA effector, which we show translocates into tobacco chloroplasts. Secretome-wide predictions and confocal microscopy reveal that rust fungi might have evolved multiple effectors that target chloroplasts or nuclei. LOCALIZER is the first method for predicting effector localisation in plants and is a valuable tool for prioritizing effector candidates for functional investigations. LOCALIZER is available at http://localizer.csiro.au/.', u'/content/early/2016/12/09/092726', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'CSIRO;', u'UWA;', u'Sainsbury Laboratory']]
[u'Cas13b is a Type VI-B CRISPR-associated RNA-Guided RNase differentially regulated by accessory proteins Csx27 and Csx28', ['Aaron Smargon', 'David B.T. Cox', 'Neena Pyzocha', 'Kaijie Zheng', 'Ian M Slaymaker', 'Jonathan S Gootenberg', 'Omar A Abudayyeh', 'Patrick Essletzbichler', 'Sergey Shmakov', 'Kira S Makarova', 'Eugene V Koonin', 'Feng Zhang'], u'December 9, 2016.', u'CRISPR-Cas adaptive immune systems defend microbes against foreign nucleic acids via RNA- guided endonucleases. Using a computational sequence database mining approach, we identify two Class 2 CRISPR-Cas systems (subtype VI-B) that lack Cas1 and Cas2 and encompass a single large effector protein, Cas13b, along with one of two previously uncharacterized associated proteins, Csx27 or Csx28. We establish that these CRISPR-Cas systems can achieve RNA interference when heterologously expressed. Through a combination of biochemical and genetic experiments, we show that Cas13b processes its own CRISPR array with short and long direct repeats, cleaves target RNA, and exhibits collateral RNase activity. Using an E. coli essential gene screen, we demonstrate that Cas13b has a double-sided protospacer-flanking sequence and elucidate RNA secondary structure requirements for targeting. We also find that Csx27 represses, whereas Csx28 enhances, Cas13b-mediated RNA interference. Characterization of these CRISPR systems creates opportunities to develop tools to manipulate and monitor cellular transcripts.', u'/content/early/2016/12/09/092577', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Broad Institute and MIT;', u'NIH']]
