[u'Nkx2.1 regulates the proliferation and cell fate of telencephalic astrocytes during embryonic development', ['Shilpi Minocha', 'Delphine Valloton', 'Yvan Arsenijevic', 'Jean-Rene Cardinaux', 'Raffaella Dreier Guidi', 'Jean-Pierre Hornung', 'Cecile Lebrand'], u'July 21, 2016.', u'The homeodomain transcription factor Nkx2.1 controls cell differentiation of telencephalic GABAergic interneurons and oligodendrocytes. Here, we show that Nkx2.1 additionally regulates astrogliogenesis of the telencephalon from embryonic day (E) 14.5 to E16.5. Our work aims to identify the different mechanisms by which Nkx2.1 controls telencephalic astrogliogenesis. In Nkx2.1-/-, a drastic loss of astrocytes is observed which is not related to cell death. In vivo analysis using BrdU incorporation reveals that Nkx2.1 affects the proliferation of ventral neural stem cells that generate early astrocytes. In vitro neurosphere assays show that Nkx2.1 additionally affects the differentiation step of Nkx2.1-derived astrocytes. Chromatin immunoprecipitation and in vitro co-transfection studies of a Nkx2.1-expressing plasmid indicate that Nkx2.1 binds to the promoter of astroglial differentiation gene GFAP, and regulates its expression. Hence, Nkx2.1 controls astroglial production spatiotemporally in embryos by regulating stem cell division and specification of the contributing Nkx2.1+ precursors.', u'/content/early/2016/07/21/065169', [], [u'University of Lausanne;', u'Lausanne University Hospital']]
[u'Introducing py_emra: the Python module for Ensemble Modeling Robustness Analysis', ['Matthew Theisen'], u'July 21, 2016.', u'The py_emra module implements the Ensemble Modeling Robustness Analysis (EMRA) algorithm in Python. Previous implementations in MATLAB have been used to gain useful insights into metabolic dynamics and metabolic engineering strategies. The py_emra package performs favorably in comparison to MATLAB. Potential extensions and improvements are discussed.', u'/content/early/2016/07/21/065177', [], [u'UCLA']]
[u'Understanding How Microbiomes Influence the Systems they Inhabit: Insight from Ecosystem Ecology', ['Ed Hall', 'Emily Bernhardt', 'Raven Bier', 'Mark Bradford', 'Claudia Boot', 'Jim Cotner', 'Paul del Giorgio', 'Sarah Evans', 'Emily Graham', 'Stuart Jones', 'Jay Lennon', 'Ken Locey', 'Diana Nemergut', 'Brooke Osborne', 'Jenny Rocca', 'Josh Schimel', 'Mark Waldrop', 'Matt Wallenstein'], u'July 21, 2016.', u'The well-documented significance of microorganisms to the function of virtually all ecosystems has led to the assumption that more information on microbiomes will improve our ability to understand and predict system-level processes. Notably, the importance of the microbiome has become increasingly evident in the environmental sciences and in particular ecosystem ecology. However, translating the ever-increasing wealth of information on environmental microbiomes to advance ecosystem science is proving exceptionally challenging. One reason for this challenge is that correlations between microbiomes and the ecosystem processes they influence are often reported without the underlying causal mechanisms. This limits the predictive power of each correlation to the time and place at which it was identified. In this paper, we assess the assumptions and approaches currently used to establish links between environmental microbiomes and the ecosystems they influence, propose a framework to more effectively harness our understanding of microbiomes to advance ecosystem science, and identify key challenges and solutions required to apply the proposed framework. Specifically, we suggest identifying each microbial process that contributes to the ecosystem process of interest a priori. We then suggest linking information on microbial community membership through microbial community properties (such as biomass elemental ratios) to the microbial processes that drive each ecosystem process (e.g. N -mineralization). A key challenge in this framework will be identifying which microbial community properties can be determined from the constituents of the community (community aggregated traits, CATs) and which properties are unable to be predicted from a list of their constituent taxa (emergent properties, EPs). We view this directed approach as a promising pathway to advance our understanding of how microbiomes influence the systems they inhabit.', u'/content/early/2016/07/21/065128', [], [u'Colorado State University;', u'Duke University;', u'Uppsala University;', u'Yale University;', u'University of Minnesota;', u'Universit\xe9 du Qu\xe9bec \xe1 Montr\xe9al;', u'Michigan State University;', u'8 Pacific Northwest National Laboratory;', u'Notre Dame University;', u'Indiana University;', u'Brown University;', u'University of California, Santa Barbara;', u'USGS']]
[u'Dispersal: a central trait in life history', ['Dries Bonte', 'Maxime Dahirel'], u'July 21, 2016.', u'The study of trade-offs among major life history components (age at maturity, lifespan and reproduction) allowed the development of a quantitative framework to understand how environmental variation shapes patterns of biodiversity among and within species. \nBecause every environment is inherently spatially structured, Individuals need to move within and among habitats to maximize fitness. Dispersal is often assumed to be tightly integrated into life histories, in particular within the fast-slow continuum of life-history variation, and this integration is used to explain many aspects of population and community dynamics. Evidence for a general, context-independent, integration of dispersal in life histories is however weak, and suggests that dispersal needs to be considered as a central and independent axis in individual life histories. \nWe synthesize theoretical and empirical evidence on the central role of dispersal and its evolutionary dynamics on the spatial distribution of ecological strategies and its impact on population spread, invasions and coexistence. By applying an optimality framework we show that the inclusion of dispersal as an independent dimension of life histories might substantially change our view on evolutionary trajectories in spatially structured environments. \nBecause changes in the spatial configuration of habitats affect the costs of movement and dispersal, adaptations to reduce these costs will increase phenotypic divergence among and within populations. This phenotypic heterogeneity is anticipated to further impact population and community dynamics.', u'/content/early/2016/07/21/065151', [], [u'Ghent University']]
[u'Generalization of the Ewens sampling formula to arbitrary fitness landscapes', ['Pavel Khromov', 'Constantin D Malliaris', 'Alexandre V Morozov'], u'July 21, 2016.', u'In considering evolution of transcribed regions, regulatory modules, and other genomic loci of interest, we are often faced with a situation in which \nthe number of allelic states greatly exceeds the population size. In this limit, the population eventually adopts a steady state characterized by mutation-selection-drift balance. Although new alleles continue to be explored through mutation, the statistics of the population, and in particular the probabilities of seeing specific allelic configurations in samples taken from a population,\ndo not change with time. In the absence of selection, probabilities of allelic configurations are given by the Ewens sampling formula, widely used in population genetics to detect deviations from neutrality. Here we\ndevelop an extension of this formula to arbitrary, possibly epistatic, fitness landscapes. Although our approach is general, we focus on the class of landscapes in which alleles are grouped into two, three, or several fitness states. This class of landscapes yields sampling probabilities that are computationally more tractable, and can form a basis for the inference of selection signatures from sequence\ndata. We demonstrate that, for a sizeable range of mutation rates and selection coefficients,\nthe steady-state allelic diversity is not neutral. Therefore, it may be used to infer selection coefficients, as well as other key evolutionary parameters, using high-throughput sequencing of evolving populations to collect data on\nlocus polymorphisms. We also carry out numerical investigation of various approximations involved in deriving our sampling formulas, such as the infinite allele limit and the "full connectivity" assumption in which each allele can mutate into any other allele. We find that our theory remains sufficiently accurate even if these assumptions are relaxed. Thus, our framework establishes a theoretical foundation for inferring selection signatures from samples of sequences produced by evolution on epistatic fitness\nlandscapes.', u'/content/early/2016/07/21/065011', [], [u'Rutgers University, United States']]
[u'Population and individual effects of non-coding variants inform genetic risk factors', ['Mauro Pala', 'Zachary Zappala', 'Mara Marongiu', 'Xin Li', 'Joe R Davis', 'Roberto Cusano', 'Francesca Crobu', 'Kimberly R Kukurba', 'Frederic Reiner', 'Riccardo Berutti', 'Maria G Piras', 'Antonella Mulas', 'Magdalena Zoledziewska', 'Michele Marongiu', 'Fabio Busonero', 'Andrea Maschio', 'Maristella Steri', 'Carlo Sidore', 'Serena Sanna', 'Edoardo Fiorillo', 'Alexis Battle', 'John Novembre', 'Chris Jones', 'Andrea Angius', 'Goncalo R Abecasis', 'David Schlessinger', 'Francesco Cucca', 'Stephen B Montgomery'], u'July 21, 2016.', u"Identifying functional non-coding variants can enhance genome interpretation and inform novel genetic risk factors. We used whole genomes and peripheral white blood cell transcriptomes from 624 Sardinian individuals to identify non-coding variants that contribute to population, family, and individual differences in transcript abundance. We identified 21,183 independent expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) and 6,768 independent splicing quantitative trait loci (sQTLs) influencing 73 and 41% of all tested genes. When we compared Sardinian eQTLs to those previously identified in Europe, we identified differentiated eQTLs at genes involved in malarial resistance and multiple sclerosis, reflecting the long-term epidemiological history of the island's population. Taking advantage of pedigree data for the population sample, we identify segregating patterns of outlier gene expression and allelic imbalance in 61 Sardinian trios. We identified 809 expression outliers (median z-score of 2.97) averaging 13.3 genes with outlier expression per individual. We then connected these outlier expression events to rare non-coding variants. Our results provide new insight into the effects of non-coding variants and their relationship to population history, traits and individual genetic risk.", u'/content/early/2016/07/21/065144', [], [u'Istituto di Ricerca Genetica e Biomedica (IRGB), CNR, Italy;', u'Stanford University School of Medicine, USA;', u'CRS4, Advanced Genomic Computing Technology, Italy;', u'Center for Computational Biology, John Hopkins University;', u'Department of Human Genetics, University of Chicago;', u'Center for Statistical Genetics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI;', u'Laboratory of Genetics, NIA, Baltimore, Maryland;', u'Departments of Pathology and Genetics, Stanford University School of Medicine, USA']]
[u'Exact calculation of the joint allele frequency spectrum for generalized isolation with migration models', ['Andrew Kern', 'Jody Hey'], u'July 21, 2016.', u'Population genomic datasets collected over the past decade have spurred interest in developing methods that can utilize massive numbers of loci for inference of demographic and selective histories of populations. The allele frequency spectrum (AFS) provides a convenient framework for such analysis and accordingly much attention has been paid to predicting theoretical expectations of the AFS under a number of different models. However, to date, exact solutions for the joint AFS of two or more populations under models of migration and divergence have not been found. Here we present a novel Markov chain representation of the coalescent on the state space of the joint AFS that allows for rapid, exact calculation of the joint AFS under generalized isolation with migration (IM) models. In turn, we show how our Markov chain method, in the context of composite likelihood estimation, can be used for accurate inference of parameters of the IM model using SNP data. Lastly, we apply our method to recent whole genome datasets from Drosophila melanogaster.', u'/content/early/2016/07/21/065003', [], [u'Rutgers Univeristy, United States;', u'Temple University, United States']]
[u'Gene regulation mechanism in drought-responsive grapevine leaves as revealed by transcriptomic analysis', ['Haider Muhammad Salman', 'Cheng Zhang', 'Tariq Pervaiz', 'Ting Zheng', 'Chao bo Zhang', 'Chen Lide', 'Lingfie Shangguan', 'Jinggui Fang'], u'July 21, 2016.', u'The transcriptome of drought-stressed grapevine leaves was analyzed using RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) technology and compared. In this experiment, 12,451 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were recorded in response to drought by RNA-seq, which includes 7,983 up-regulated and 4,468 down-regulated transcripts, proposing that drought stress has induced/repressed many genes. Biological and physiological analysis revealed that drought has influenced the chlorophyll metabolism and photosynthetic activity in grapevine leaves. Besides, various defensive mechanism-related pathways including, reactive oxygen species (ROS), hormonal signal transduction, proline metabolism, biosynthesis of secondary metabolites, heat-shock proteins, and pathogenesis-related protein were also elucidated to understand drought-resistance related gene induction. Therefore, the transcriptional activity of ROS along with antioxidant enzymes, stress-related proteins, proline and secondary metabolites were strongly induced and played the tolerance-related role in response to drought stress. Moreover, an increased level of abscisic acid (ABA) and brassinosteroids (BRs) at physiological and transcriptomic level proved the fact that both hormones have a key defensive role against drought stress in grapevine leaves. In general, these findings will provide the drought tolerance-related gene information, which could be further used for developing drought-resistant grapevine varieties.', u'/content/early/2016/07/21/065136', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Nanjing Agricultural University, China']]
[u'Short Tandem Repeat stutter model inferred from direct measurement of in vitro stutter noise', ['Ofir Raz', 'Tamir Biezuner', 'Adam Spiro', 'Shiran Amir', 'Lilach Milo', 'Alon Titelman', 'Amos Onn', 'Uriel Feige', 'Ehud Shapiro'], u'July 21, 2016.', u'Short tandem repeats (STRs) are polymorphic genomic loci valuable for various applications such as research, diagnostics and forensics. However, their polymorphic nature acts as a double-edged sword, as during in vitro amplification STRs undergo mutational processes that cause stutter noise, especially in the shorter, more mutable, repeat types. Although it is possible to overcome stutter noise by using amplification-free library preparation, such protocols are presently incompatible with single cell analysis and with known targeted-enrichment protocols. To address this challenge, we have designed a method for direct measurement of in vitro noise. Using a synthetic STR sequencing library, we have calibrated a proposed Markov model for the prediction of stutter patterns at any amplification cycle. By employing this model, we have managed to genotype accurately even cases of severe amplification noise, where as little as 3% of the reads accurately reflect the original STR size.', u'/content/early/2016/07/21/065110', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Weizmann Institute of Science']]
[u'Modelling dropouts allows for unbiased identification of marker genes in scRNASeq experiments', ['Tallulah S. Andrews', 'Martin Hemberg'], u'July 21, 2016.', u'Single-cell RNASeq (scRNASeq) differs from bulk RNASeq in that a large number of genes have zero reads in some cells, but relatively high expression in the remaining cells. We propose that these zeros, or dropouts, are due to failure of the reverse transcription, and we model the process using the Michaelis-Menten (MM) equation. We show that the MM equation provides an equivalent or superior fit to existing scRNASeq datasets compared to other models. In addition, identifying genes significantly to the right of the MM curve is a fast and accurate method to distinguish differentially expressed genes without prior identification of subpopulations of cells. We applied our method to a mouse preimplantation dataset and demonstrate that clustering the selected genes identifies biologically meaningful clusters. Furthermore, this feature selection makes it possible to overcome batch effects and cluster cells from five different datasets by their biological groups rather than by experimental origin.', u'/content/early/2016/07/21/065094', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute']]
[u'Flexibility of co-evolutionary patterns in ectoparasite populations: genetic structure and diversity in Apodemus mice and their lice.', ['Jana Martinu', 'Vaclav Hypsa', 'Jan Stefka'], u'July 21, 2016.', u'Host-parasite co-evolution belongs among the major processes governing evolution of biodiversity on the global scale. Numerous studies performed at inter-specific level revealed variety of patterns from strict co-speciation to lack of co-divergence and frequent host-switching, even in species tightly linked to their hosts. To explain these observations and formulate ecological hypotheses, we need to acquire better understanding to parasites population genetics and dynamics, and their main determinants. Here, we analyse the impact of co-evolutionary processes on genetic diversity and structure of parasite populations, using a model composed of the louse Polyplax serrata and its hosts, mice of the genus Apodemus, collected from several dozens of localities across Europe. We use mitochondrial DNA sequences and microsatellite data to describe the level of genealogical congruence between hosts and parasites and to assess genetic diversity of the populations. We also explore links between the genetic assignment of the parasite and its host affiliation, and test the prediction that populations of the parasite possessing narrower host specificity show deeper pattern of population structure and lower level of genetic diversity as a result of limited dispersal and smaller effective population size. We demonstrate an overall complexity of the co-evolutionary processes and their variability even among closely related lineages of the parasites. In the analysis of several sympatric parasite populations, we find strong evidence for the link between the width of host specificity and genetic diversity of parasites.', u'/content/early/2016/07/21/065060', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of South Bohemia in Ceske Budejovice;', u'Biology Centre, CAS']]
[u'S2 from Equine infectious anemia virus is an infectivity factor which counteracts the retroviral inhibitors SERINC5 and SERINC3', ['Ajit Chande', 'Emilia Cuccurullo', 'Annachiara Rosa', 'Serena Ziglio', 'Susan Carpenter', 'Massimo Pizzato'], u'July 21, 2016.', u'The lentivirus equine infectious anemia virus (EIAV) encodes S2, a pathogenic determinant important for virus replication and disease progression in horses. No molecular function has yet been linked to this accessory protein. We now report that S2 can replace the activity of Nef on HIV-1 infectivity, being required to antagonize the inhibitory activity of SERINC proteins on Nef-defective HIV-1. Similar to Nef, S2 excludes SERINC5 from virus particles and requires an ExxxLL motif predicted to recruit the clathrin adaptor AP2. Accordingly, a functional endocytic machinery is essential for S2-mediated infectivity enhancement, which is impaired by inhibitors of clathrin-mediated endocytosis. In addition to retargeting SERINC5 to a late endosomal compartment, S2 promotes the host factor degradation. Emphasizing the similarity with Nef, we show that S2 is myristoylated and, compatible with a crucial role of the post-translational modification, its N-terminal glycine is required for the anti-SERINC5 activity. \nEIAV-derived vectors devoid of S2 are less susceptible than HIV-1 to the inhibitory effect of both human and equine SERINC5. We then identified the envelope glycoprotein of EIAV as a determinant which also modulates retrovirus susceptibility to SERINC5, indicating a bi-modular ability of the equine lentivirus to counteract the host factor.\nS2 shares no sequence homology with other retroviral factors known to counteract SERINC5. Adding to primate lentivirus Nef and gammaretrovirus glycoGag, the accessory protein from EIAV makes another example of a retroviral virulence determinant which independently evolved SERINC5-antagonizing activity. SERINC5 therefore plays a critical role for the interaction of the host with diverse retrovirus pathogens.', u'/content/early/2016/07/21/065078', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Trento;', u'Iowa State University']]
[u'Structure of Topologically Associating Domains and gene regulation embedded in the 5C data revealed by a polymer model and stochastic simulations', ['Ofir Shukron', 'David Holcman'], u'July 21, 2016.', u'Chromatin organization is probed by chromosomal capture data,from which the encounter probability (EP) between genomic sites is represented in a large matrix. However, this matrix is obtained by averaging the EP over cell population, where diagonal blocks called TADs, contains hidden information about sub-chromatin organization. Our aim here is to elucidate the relationship between TADs structure and gene regulation. For this end, we reconstruct the chromatin dynamics from the EP matrix using polymer model and explore the transient properties, constrained by the statistics of the data. To construct the polymer, we use the EP decay in two steps: first, to account for TADs, we introduce random connectors inside a restricted region defining the TADs. Second, we account for long-range frequent specific genomic interactions in the polymer architecture. Finally, stochastic simulations show that only a small number of randomly placed connectors are required to reproduce the EP of TADs, and allow us to compute the mean first time and the conditional encounter probability of three key genomic sites to meet. These encounter times reveal how chromatin can self-regulate. The present polymer construction is generic and can be used to study steady-state and transient properties of chromatin constrained on 5C data.', u'/content/early/2016/07/21/065102', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Ecole Normale Superieure']]
[u'Tissue-specificity of gene expression diverges slowly between orthologs, and rapidly between paralogs', ['Nadezda Kryuchkova-Mostacci', 'Marc Robinson-Rechavi'], u'July 21, 2016.', u'The ortholog conjecture implies that functional similarity between orthologous genes is higher than between paralogs. It has been supported using levels of expression and Gene Ontology term analysis previously, although the evidence was rather weak and there were also conflicting reports. In this study on 12 species we provide strong evidence of high conservation in tissue-specificity between orthologs, in contrast to low conservation between within-species paralogs. This allows us to shed a new light on the evolution of gene expression patterns. While there have been several studies of the correlation of expression between species, little is known about the evolution of tissue-specificity itself. Ortholog tissue-specificity is strongly conserved between all tetrapod species, with the lowest Pearson correlation between mouse and frog at r = 0.66. Tissue-specificity correlation decreases strongly with divergence time. Paralogs in human show much lower conservation, even for recent Primate-specific paralogs. Small-scale tissue-specific paralogs are mostly specific for the same tissue, while ancient whole genome duplication paralogs are often specific for different tissues. The same patterns are observed using human or mouse as focal species and are robust to choices of datasets and of thresholds.', u'/content/early/2016/07/21/065086', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Lausanne']]
[u'Joint Fine Mapping of GWAS and eQTL Detects Target Gene and Relevant Tissue', ['Farhad Hormozdiari', 'Ayellet V. Segre', 'Martijn van de Bunt', 'Xiao Li', 'Jong Wha J Joo', 'Michael Bilow', 'Jae Hoon Sul', 'Sriram Sankararaman', 'Bogdan Pasaniuc', 'Eleazar Eskin'], u'July 21, 2016.', u'The vast majority of genome-wide association studies (GWAS) risk loci fall\nin non-coding regions of the genome. One possible hypothesis is that these\nGWAS risk loci alter the disease risk through their effect on gene expression\nin different tissues. In order to understand the mechanisms driving a GWAS risk \nlocus, it is helpful to determine which gene is affected in specific tissue types. If the same variant responsible for a GWAS locus also affects gene expression, the relevant gene and tissue may play a role in the disease mechanism. Identifying whether or not the same variant is causal in both GWAS and eQTL studies is challenging due to the uncertainty induced by linkage disequilibrium (LD) and the fact that some loci harbor multiple causal variants. However, current methods that address this problem assume that each locus contains a single causal variant. In this paper, we present a new method, eCAVIAR, that is capable of accounting for LD while computing the quantity we refer to as the colocalization posterior probability (CLPP). The CLPP is the probability that the same variant is responsible for both the GWAS and eQTL signal. eCAVIAR has several key advantages. First, our method can account for more than one causal variant in any loci. Second, it can leverage summary statistics without accessing the individual genotype data. We use both simulated and real datasets to demonstrate the utility of our method. Utilizing data from the \nGenotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) project, we demonstrate that computing CLPP can prioritize likely relevant tissues and target genes for a set of Glucose and Insulin-related traits loci. eCAVIAR is available at http://genetics.cs.ucla.edu/caviar/', u'/content/early/2016/07/21/065037', [u'Genetics'], [u'UCLA;', u'The Broad Institute of Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard University;', u'University of Oxford']]
