[u'Predicting binding free energies: Frontiers and benchmarks', ['David L. Mobley', 'Michael K. Gilson'], u'September 11, 2016.', u'Binding free energy calculations based on molecular simulations provide predicted affinities for biomolecular complexes. \nThese calculations begin with a detailed description of a system, including its chemical composition and the interactions between its components. \nSimulations of the system are then used to compute thermodynamic information, such as binding affinities. Because of their promise for guiding molecular design, these calculations have recently begun to see widespread applications in early stage drug discovery. However, many challenges remain to make them a robust and reliable tool. Here, we briefly explain how the calculations work, highlight key challenges, and argue for the development of accepted benchmark test systems that will help the research community generate and evaluate progress.', u'/content/early/2016/09/11/074625', [], [u'Departments of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Chemistry;', u'University of California, San Diego']]
[u'Design principles of autocatalytic cycles constrain enzyme kinetics and force over-expression at flux branch points', ['Uri Barenholz', 'Dan Davidi', 'Ed Reznik', 'Yinon Bar-On', 'Niv Antonovsky', 'Elad Noor', 'Ron Milo'], u'September 11, 2016.', u'A set of chemical reactions that require a metabolite to synthesize more of that metabolite is an autocatalytic cycle. Such metabolic designs must meet specific conditions to support stable fluxes, hence avoiding depletion of intermediate metabolites. Here we show that most of the reactions in central carbon metabolism are part of compact autocatalytic cycles. As such, they are subjected to constraints that may seem irrational: the enzymes of branch reactions out of the cycle must be overexpressed and the affinity of these enzymes to their substrates must be relatively low. We use recent quantitative proteomics and fluxomics measurements to show that the above conditions hold for all functioning cycles in central carbon metabolism of E.coli. This work demonstrates that the topology of a metabolic network can shape kinetic parameters of enzymes and lead to apparently reduced enzyme efficiency.', u'/content/early/2016/09/11/074641', [], [u'Weizmann Institute of Science;', u'Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center;', u'ETH Zurich']]
[u'Revealing complex ecological dynamics via symbolic regression', ['Yize Chen', 'Marco Tulio Angulo', 'Yang-Yu Liu'], u'September 11, 2016.', u'Complex ecosystems, from food webs to our gut microbiota, are essential to human life. Understanding the dynamics of those ecosystems can help us better maintain or control them. Yet, reverse-engineering complex ecosystems (i.e., extracting their dynamic models) directly from measured temporal data has not been very successful so far. Here we propose to close this gap via symbolic regression. We validate our method using both synthetic and real data. We firstly show this method allows reverse engineering two-species ecosystems, inferring both the structure and the parameters of ordinary differential equation models that reveal the mechanisms behind the system dynamics. We find that as the size of the ecosystem increases or the complexity of the inter-species interactions grow, using a dictionary of known functional responses (either previously reported or reverse-engineered from small ecosystems using symbolic regression) opens the door to correctly reverse-engineer large ecosystems.', u'/content/early/2016/09/11/074617', [], [u'Harvard Medical School;', u'National Autonomous University of Mexico']]
[u'Thermally moderated firefly activity is delayed by precipitation extremes', ['Elizabeth Davidson-Lowe', 'Bahodir Eshchanov', 'Sara Hermann', 'Andrew Myers', 'Logan Rowe', 'Saisi Xue', 'Christie A Bahlai'], u'September 11, 2016.', u"The timing of events in the life history of temperate insects is most typically primarily cued by one of two drivers: photoperiod or temperature accumulation over the growing season. However, an insect's phenology can also be moderated by other drivers like rainfall or the phenology of its host plants. When multiple drivers of phenology interact, there is greater potential for phenological asynchronies to arise between an organism and those it interacts with. We examined the phenological patterns of a highly seasonal group of insects, the Eastern Firefly (Photinus pyralis) over a 12-year period (2004-2015) across 10 plant communities to determine if interacting drivers could explain the variability observed in the adult flight activity density (i.e. mating season) of this species. We found that temperature accumulation was the primary driver of phenology with activity peaks usually occurring at a temperature accumulation of ~800 degree days (base 10\xb0C), however, our model found this peak varied by nearly 180 degree day units between years. This variation could be explained by a quadratic relationship with the accumulation of precipitation in the growing season; in years with either high and low precipitation extremes at our study site, flight activity was delayed. More fireflies were captured in general in herbaceous plant communities with minimal soil disturbance (alfalfa and no-till field crop rotations), but only weak interactions occurred between within-season responses to climatic variables and plant community. The interaction we observed between temperature and precipitation accumulation suggests that, although climate warming has potential to disrupt phenology of many organisms, changes to regional precipitation patterns can magnify these disruptions.", u'/content/early/2016/09/11/074633', [], [u'Michigan State University']]
[u'Risky decision-making in major depression is stable and intact', ['Dongil Chung', 'Kelly Kadlec', 'Jason A Aimone', 'Katherine McCurry', 'Brooks King-Casas', 'Pearl H Chiu'], u'September 11, 2016.', u'The clinical diagnosis and symptoms of major depressive disorder (MDD) have been closely associated with impairments in reward processing. In particular, various studies have shown blunted neural and behavioral responses to the experience of reward in depression. However, little is known about whether depression affects individuals\u2032 valuation of potential rewards during decision-making, independent from reward experience. To address this question, we used a gambling task and a model-based analytic approach to measure two types of individual sensitivity to reward values in participants with MDD: \u2032risk preference,\u2032 indicating how objective values are subjectively perceived and \u2032inverse temperature,\u2032 determining the degree to which subjective value differences between options influences participants\u2032 choices. On both of these measures of value sensitivity, participants with MDD were comparable to non-psychiatric controls. Both risk preference and inverse temperature were also stable over four laboratory visits and comparable between the groups at each visit. Moreover, neither value sensitivity measure varied with severity of clinical symptoms in MDD. These data suggest intact and stable value processing in MDD during risky decision-making.', u'/content/early/2016/09/11/074690', [], [u'Virginia Tech Carilion Research Institute;', u'Baylor University']]
[u'Global Reduction of Information Exchange during Anesthetic-Induced Unconsciousness', ['Christina Hamilton', 'Yuncong Ma', 'Nanyin Zhang'], u'September 11, 2016.', u'During anesthetic-induced unconsciousness (AIU), the brain undergoes a dramatic change in its capacity to exchange information between regions. However, the spatial distribution of information exchange loss/gain across the entire brain remains elusive. In the present study, we acquired and analyzed resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rsfMRI) data in rats during wakefulness and graded levels of consciousness induced by incrementally increasing the concentration of isoflurane. We found that, regardless of spatial scale, the absolute functional connectivity (FC) change was significantly dependent on the FC strength at the awake state across all connections. This dependency became stronger at higher doses of isoflurane. In addition, the relative FC change (i.e. the FC change normalized to the corresponding FC strength at the awake state) exhibited a spatially homogenous reduction across the whole brain particularly after animals lost consciousness, indicating a globally uniform disruption of meaningful information exchange. To further support this notion, we showed that during unconsciousness, the entropy of rsfMRI signal increased to a value comparable to random noise while the mutual information decreased appreciably. Importantly, consistent results were obtained when unconsciousness was induced by dexmedetomidine, an anesthetic agent with a distinct molecular action than isoflurane. This result indicates that the observed global reduction in information exchange may be agent invariant. Taken together, these findings provide compelling neuroimaging evidence suggesting that the brain undergoes a widespread, uniform disruption in the exchange of meaningful information during AIU, and that this change may represent a common systems-level neural mechanism of AIU.', u'/content/early/2016/09/11/074658', [], [u'The Pennsylvania State University']]
[u'Joint analysis of area and thickness of the cerebral cortex replaces cortical volume measurements', ['Anderson M. Winkler', 'Douglas N. Greve', 'Knut J. Bjuland', 'Thomas E. Nichols', 'Mert R. Sabuncu', 'Asta K. Haberg', 'Jon Skranes', 'Lars M. Rimol'], u'September 11, 2016.', u'A detailed investigation of the surface-based methods for assessment of cortical volume and area from magnetic resonance images shows that volume mostly mirrors variability in surface area, while having little sensitivity to cortical thickness, and this remains the case even when volume is assessed using an improved analytic method. Using data from young adults born with very low birth weight and coetaneous controls, it is demonstrated that the permutation-based non-parametric combination (NPC) of thickness and area is more sensitive than volume for studying joint effects on these two quantities, giving equal weight to variation in both. NPC can replace current analyses of cortical volume altogether, allowing a better characterisation of processes that can concomitantly influence brain anatomy, even when their effects are in opposite directions. The method is remarkably general and can be extended to other indices of brain structure and function.', u'/content/early/2016/09/11/074666', [], [u'University of Oxford;', u'Martinos Center for Biomedical Imaging, Massachusetts General Hospital/Harvard Medical School;', u'Norwegian University of Science and Technology;', u'University of Warwick;', u'St. Olavs Hospital, Trondheim University Hospital']]
[u'Estimating the causal tissues for complex traits and diseases', ['Halit Ongen', 'Andrew A Brown', 'Olivier Delaneau', 'Nikolaos Panousis', 'Alexandra C Nica', 'Emmanouil T Dermitzakis'], u'September 11, 2016.', u'Interpretation of biological causes of the predisposing markers identified through Genome Wide Association Studies (GWAS) remains an open question. One direct and powerful way to assess the genetic causality behind GWAS is through expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs). Here we describe a novel approach to estimate the tissues giving rise to the genetic causality behind a wide variety of GWAS traits, using the cis-eQTLs identified in 44 tissues of the GTEx consortium. We have adapted the Regulatory Trait Concordance (RTC) score, to on the one hand measure the tissue sharing probabilities of eQTLs, and also to calculate the probability that a GWAS and an eQTL variant tag the same underlying functional effect. We show that our tissue sharing estimates significantly correlate with commonly used estimates of tissue sharing. By normalizing the GWAS-eQTL probabilities with the tissue sharing estimates of the eQTLs, we can estimate the tissues from which GWAS genetic causality arises. Our approach not only indicates the gene mediating individual GWAS signals, but also can highlight tissues where the genetic causality for an individual trait is manifested.', u'/content/early/2016/09/11/074682', [], [u'University of Geneva']]
[u'Identification of quercetin from fruits to immediately fight Zika', ['Amrita Roy', 'Liangzhong Lim', 'Jianxing Song'], u'September 11, 2016.', u'Zika virus is spread mainly by the bite of an infected mosquito, which can be passed from a pregnant woman to her fetus, thus leading to birth defects including more than microcephaly. It has been recently estimated that one-third of the world population will be infected by Zika in the near future, but unfortunately so far there is no vaccine or medicine for Zika. In particular, the special concern on the vaccine treatment to Zika and Dengue arising from antibody-dependent enhancement strongly emphasizes the key role of its NS2B-NS3 protease (NS2B-NS3pro) as a target for anti-Zika drug discovery/design due to its absolutely-essential role in viral replication. In response to the current global health emergency triggered by the Zika outbreak, we successfully obtained several active forms of Zika NS2B-NS3pro and further attempted to discover its inhibitors from eatable plants and traditional herbal medicines to immediately fight Zika. Here, for the first time, we discovered that quercetin, a flavonoid extensively existing in many fruits and vegetables, effectively inhibits Zika NS2B-NS3pro. We further quantify its inhibitory activity with IC50 of 26 uM; and Ki of 23 uM. As quercetin has been extensively found in fruits, vegetables, leaves and grains, our discovery would benefit the public to immediately fight Zika.', u'/content/early/2016/09/11/074559', [], [u'National University of Singapore']]
[u'Validation of Reference Genes for RT-qPCR in Marine Bivalve Ecotoxicology: Systematic Review and Case Study', ['Moritz Volland', 'Julian Blasco', 'Miriam Hampel'], u'September 11, 2016.', u'Reverse transcription real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) is the predominant method of choice for the quantification of mRNA transcripts of a selected gene of interest. Here reference genes are commonly used to normalize non-biological variation in mRNA levels and their appropriate selection is therefore essential for the accurate interpretation the collected data. In recent years the use of multiple validated references genes has been shown to substantially increase the robustness of the normalization. It is therefore considered good practice to experimentally validate putative reference genes under specific experimental conditions, determine the optimal number of reference genes to be employed, and report the method or methods used.\nUnder this premise, we assessed the current state of reference gene base normalization in RT-qPCR bivalve ecotoxicology studies (post 2011), employing a systematic quantitative literature review. A total of 52 papers published met our criteria and were analysed for the gene or genes used, whether they employed multiple reference genes, as well as the validation method employed. In addition we performed a case study using primary hemocytes from the marine bivalve Ruditapes philippinarum after in vitro copper exposure. Herein we further critically discuss methods for reference gene validation, including the established algorithms geNorm, NormFinder and BestKeeper, as well as the popular online tool RefFinder.\nWe identified that RT-qPCR normalization in bivalve ecotoxicology studies is largely performed using single reference genes, while less than 40% of the studies attempted to experimentally validate the expression stability of the reference genes used. 18s rRNA and \u03b2-Actin were the most popular genes, yet their un-validated use did introduce artefactual variance that altered the interpretation of the resulting data, while the use of appropriately validated reference genes did substantially improve normalization. Our findings further suggest that combining the results from multiple individual algorithms and calculating the overall best-ranked gene, as e.g. computed by the RefFinder tool, does not by default lead to the identification of the most suitable reference gene or combination of reference genes.', u'/content/early/2016/09/11/074542', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Institute of Marine Sciences of Andalucia (ICMAN-CSIC);', u'Andalusian Center of Marine Science and Technology (CACYTMAR)']]
[u'Top-Down Beta Oscillatory Signaling Conveys Behavioral Context to Primary Visual Cortex', ['Craig Geoffrey Richter', 'Richard Coppola', 'Steven L. Bressler'], u'September 11, 2016.', u"Top-down modulation of sensory processing is a critical neural mechanism subserving a number of important cognitive roles. Principally, top-down influences appear to inform lower-order sensory systems of the current 'task at hand', and thus may convey behavioral context to these systems. Accumulating evidence indicates that top-down cortical influences are carried by directed interareal synchronization of oscillatory neuronal populations. An important question currently under investigation by a number of laboratories is whether the information conveyed by directed interareal synchronization depends on the frequency band in which it is conveyed. Recent results point to the beta frequency band as being particularly important for conveying task-related information. However, little is known about the nature of the information conveyed by top-down directed influences. To investigate the information content of top-down directed beta-frequency influences, we measured spectral Granger Causality using local field potentials recorded from microelectrodes chronically implanted in visual cortical areas V1, V4, and TEO, and then applied multivariate pattern analysis to the spatial patterns of top-down spectral Granger Causality in the visual cortex. We decoded behavioral context by discriminating patterns of top-down (V4/TEO -> V1) beta-peak spectral Granger Causality for two different task rules governing the correct responses to visual stimuli. The results indicate that top-down directed influences in visual cortex are carried by beta oscillations, and differentiate current task demands even before visual stimulus processing. They suggest that top-down beta-frequency oscillatory processes may coordinate the processing of sensory information by conveying global knowledge states to early levels of the sensory cortical hierarchy independently of bottom-up stimulus-driven processing.", u'/content/early/2016/09/11/074609', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Ernst Struengmann Institute (ESI) for Neuroscience in Cooperation with Max Planck Society;', u'MEG Core Facility, National Institute of Mental Health;', u'Center for Complex Systems and Brain Science']]
