[u'Causality, Transfer Entropy and Allosteric Communication Landscapes in Proteins with Harmonic Interactions', ['Aysima Hacisuleyman', 'Burak Erman'], u'November 1, 2016.', u"A fast and approximate method of generating allosteric communication landscapes is presented by using Schreiber's entropy transfer concept in combination with the Gaussian Network Model of proteins. Predictions of the model and the allosteric communication landscapes generated show that information transfer in proteins does not necessarily take place along a single path, but through an ensemble of pathways. The model emphasizes that knowledge of entropy only is not sufficient for determining allosteric communication and additional information based on time delayed correlations has to be introduced, which leads to the presence of causality in proteins. The model provides a simple tool for mapping entropy sink-source relations into pairs of residues. Residues that should be manipulated to control protein activity may be determined with this approach. This should be of great importance for allosteric drug design and for understanding the effects of mutations on protein function. The model is applied to determine allosteric communication in two proteins, Ubiquitin and Pyruvate Kinase. Predictions are in agreement with detailed molecular dynamics simulations and experimental evidence.", u'/content/early/2016/11/01/084764.1', [], [u'Koc University']]
[u'Entropy Transfer between Residue Pairs Shows that Allostery is an Intrinsic Property of Proteins: Quantifying Allosteric Communication in Ubiquitin', ['Aysima Hacisuleyman', 'Burak Erman'], u'November 1, 2016.', u"It has recently been proposed by Gunasakaran et al. that allostery may be an intrinsic\nproperty of all proteins. Here, we apply Schreiber's transfer entropy formulation to the\nnon-allosteric protein Ubiquitin and show that there are indeed systematic pathways of\nentropy and information transfer between residues that correlate well with the activities\nof the protein. We use 600 nanosecond molecular dynamics trajectories for Ubiquitin\nand its complex with human polymerase iota and evaluate entropy transfer between all\npairs of residues of Ubiquitin and quantify the binding susceptibility changes upon\ncomplex formation. Calculations show that specific residues act as entropy reservoirs\nin Ubiquitin and others as entropy sinks. Using the plausible conjecture that extracting\nentropy from a residue makes it more susceptible for interaction with a partner, we\nexplain the ternary complex formation of Ubiquitin in terms of entropy transfer. Finally,\nwe show that time delayed correlation of fluctuations of two interacting residues\npossesses an intrinsic causality that tells which residue controls the interaction and\nwhich one is controlled. Our work shows that time delayed correlations, entropy\ntransfer and causality are the required new concepts for explaining allosteric\ncommunication in proteins.", u'/content/early/2016/11/01/084756.1', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Koc University']]
[u'THE CREATION OF A NEGATIVE SLOPE CONDUCTANCE REGION BY THE ACTIVATION OF THE PERSISTENT SODIUM CURRENT PROLONGS NEAR-THRESHOLD SYNAPTIC POTENTIALS', ['Cesar Ceballos', 'Antonio Roque', 'Ricardo Leao'], u'November 1, 2016.', u'A change of the input resistance (Rin) of the neuron involves a change in the membrane conductances by opening and closing of ion channels. In passive membranes, i.e., membranes with only linear leak conductances, the increase or decrease of these conductances leads to a decrease or increase of the Rin and the membrane time constant (\u03c4m). However, the presence of subthreshold voltage dependent currents can produce non-linear effects generating deviations from this relationship, especially the contradictory effect of negative conductances, as produced by the sodium-persistent current (INaP), on the Rin. In this work we aimed to analyze experimentally and theoretically the impact of the negative conductance produced by INaP on Rin. Experiments of whole-cell patch-clamp conducted in CA1 hippocampus pyramidal cells from brain slices showed a paradoxical voltage-dependent decrease of the Rin and the \u03c4m in subthreshold membrane potentials close to the firing threshold after the perfusion with TTX, which inhibits INaP. This effect is postulated to be a result of the negative slope conductance in the subthreshold region produced by this conductance. The analysis of the experimental data, together with simulations found that the slope conductance of INaP is negative for subthreshold membrane potentials and its magnitude is voltage dependent in the same range observed for the voltage-dependence of Rin and \u03c4m. The injection of an artificial INaP using dynamic-clamp in the presence of TTX restored the Rin and \u03c4m to its original values. Additionally the injection of an artificial leak current with a negative conductance in the presence of TTX restored the Rin and \u03c4m as the artificial Inap did. On the other hand, the injection of an artificial leak current with a positive conductance in the presence of TTX had no effect on the Rin and \u03c4m. We conclude that INaP increases the Rin and \u03c4m by the negative slope conductance observed in its non-monotonic I-V relationship. These results demonstrate that the effect of Inap on Rin and \u03c4m is stronger in potentials near the firing threshold, which could potentiate the temporal summation of the EPSPs increasing their temporal integration and facilitating action potential firing. Because of its negative slope conductance, INaP is more effective in increasing excitability near threshold than a depolarizing leak current.', u'/content/early/2016/11/01/084723', [u'Biophysics'], [u'University of Sao Paulo']]
[u'Cognitive ability and physical health: a Mendelian randomization study', ['Saskia Hagenaars', 'Catharine R Gale', 'Ian J Deary', 'Sarah E Harris'], u'November 1, 2016.', u'Background:  Causes of the association between lower cognitive ability and poorer health remain unknown, but may reflect a shared genetic aetiology as indicated by previous research. This study examines the causal genetic associations between cognitive ability and physical health outcomes.  Method: We carried out Mendelian randomization analyses using the inverse variance weighted method to test for causality between later life cognitive ability, educational attainment (as a proxy for cognitive ability in youth), BMI, height, systolic blood pressure, coronary artery disease, and type 2 diabetes in the UK Biobank sample (N = 112 151). Sensitivity analyses were performed using MR-Egger regression.  Results: BMI, systolic blood pressure, coronary artery disease and type 2 diabetes showed negative associations with cognitive ability, while height was positively associated with cognitive ability. The Mendelian randomization analyses provided no evidence for a casual association from health to cognitive ability. In the other direction, higher educational attainment predicted lower BMI, systolic blood pressure, coronary artery disease, type 2 diabetes, and taller stature. The Mendelian randomization analyses indicated partly causal associations from educational attainment to health, however when adjusting for bias using the MR-Egger regression, these effects disappeared.  Conclusions: The lack of consistent evidence for causal associations between cognitive ability, educational attainment, and physical health could be explained by violations of the Mendelian randomization assumptions, including biological pleiotropy.', u'/content/early/2016/11/01/084798', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Edinburgh']]
[u'Unexpected diversity in socially synchronized rhythms of shorebirds', ['Martin Bulla', 'Mihai Valcu', 'Adriaan A. Dokter', 'Alexei A. Dondua', 'Andras Kosztolanyi', 'Anne Rutten', 'Barbara Helm', 'Brett K. Sandercock', 'Bruce Casler', 'Bruno J. Ens', 'Caleb S. Spiegel', 'Chris J. Hassell', 'Clemens Kupper', 'Clive Minton', 'Daniel Burgas', 'David B. Lank', 'David C. Payer', 'Egor E. Loktinov', 'Erica Nol', 'Eunbi Kwon', 'Fletcher Smith', 'H. River Gates', 'Hana Vitnerova', 'Hanna Pruter', 'James A. Johnson', 'James J. H. St Clair', 'Jean-Francois Lamarre', 'Jennie Rausch', 'Jeroen Reneerkens', 'Jesse R. Conklin', 'Joana Burger', 'Joe Liebezeit', 'Joel Bety', 'Jonathan T. Coleman', 'Jordi Figuerola', 'Jos C. E. W. Hooijmeijer', 'Jose A. Alves', 'Joseph A. M. Smith', 'Karel Weidinger', 'Kari Koivula', 'Ken Gosbell', 'Larry Niles', 'Laura Koloski', 'Laura McKinnon', 'Libor Praus', 'Marcel Klaassen', 'Marie-Andree Giroux', 'Martin Sladecek', 'Megan L. Boldenow', 'Michael Exo', 'Michael I. Goldstein', 'Miroslav Salek', 'Nathan Senner', 'Nelli Ronka', 'Nicolas Lecomte', 'Olivier Gilg', 'Orsolya Vincze', 'Oscar W. Johnson', 'Paul A. Smith', 'Paul F. Woodard', 'Pavel S. Tomkovich', 'Phil Battley', 'Rebecca Bentzen', 'Richard B. Lanctot', 'Ron Porter', 'Sarah T. Saalfeld', 'Scott Freeman', 'Stephen C. Brown', 'Stephen Yezerinac', 'Tamas Szekely', 'Tomas Montalvo', 'Theunis Piersma', 'Vanessa Loverti', 'Veli-Matti Pakanen', 'Wim Tijsen', 'Bart Kempenaers'], u'November 1, 2016.', u'The behavioural rhythms of organisms are thought to be under strong selection, influenced by the rhythmicity of the environment1-4. Behavioural rhythms are well studied in isolated individuals under laboratory conditions1,5, but in free-living populations, individuals have to temporally synchronize their activities with those of others, including potential mates, competitors, prey and predators6-10. Individuals can temporally segregate their daily activities (e.g. prey avoiding predators, subordinates avoiding dominants) or synchronize their activities (e.g. group foraging, communal defence, pairs reproducing or caring for offspring)6,9-11. The behavioural rhythms that emerge from such social synchronization and the underlying evolutionary and ecological drivers that shape them remain poorly understood5-7,9. Here, we address this in the context of biparental care, a particularly sensitive phase of social synchronization12 where pair members potentially compromise their individual rhythms. Using data from 729 nests of 91 populations of 32 biparentally-incubating shorebird species, where parents synchronize to achieve continuous coverage of developing eggs, we report remarkable within- and between-species diversity in incubation rhythms. Between species, the median length of one parent\u2032s incubation bout varied from one to 19 hours, while period length - the cycle of female and male probability to incubate - varied from six to 43 hours. The length of incubation bouts was unrelated to variables reflecting energetic demands, but species relying on crypsis had longer incubation bouts than those that are readily visible or actively protect their nest against predators. Rhythms entrainable to the 24-h light dark cycle were less likely at high latitudes and absent in 18 species. Our results indicate that even under similar environmental conditions and despite 24-h environmental cues, social synchronization can generate far more diverse behavioural rhythms than expected from studies of individuals in captivity5-7,9. The risk of predation, not the risk of starvation, may be a key factor underlying the diversity in these rhythms.', u'/content/early/2016/11/01/084806', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'Max Planck Institute for Ornithology;', u'University of Amsterdam;', u'Independent researcher;', u'University of Veterinary Medicine Budapest and University of Debrecen;', u'University of Glasgow;', u'Kansas State University;', u'Box 1094, 89407, Fallon, NV, USA;', u'Sovon Dutch Centre for Field Ornithology;', u'US Fish and Wildlife Service;', u'Global Flyway Network;', u'University of Graz;', u'Victorian Wader Study Group;', u'University of Helsinki and University of Jyvaskyla;', u'Simon Fraser University;', u'U.S. National Park Service;', u'Bauman Moscow State Technical University;', u'Trent University;', u'Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University;', u'College of William and Mary and Virginia Commonwealth University;', u'ABR, Inc. Environmental Research and Services;', u'Charles University in Prague;', u'Leibniz Institute for Zoo and Wildlife Research;', u'University of Bath and University of Western Australia;', u'Universite du Quebec a Rimouski;', u'Environment and Climate Change Canada;', u'University of Groningen;', u'Rutgers University;', u'Audubon Society of Portland;', u'Queensland Wader Study Group;', u'Donana Biological Station (CSIC);', u'University of Aveiro & University of Iceland;', u'Conservation Services International;', u'Palacky University;', u'University of Oulu;', u'Australasian Wader Studies Group;', u'LJ Niles Associates;', u'York University Glendon Campus;', u'Deakin University;', u'Universite du Quebec a Rimouski and Universite de Moncton;', u'Czech University of Life Sciences Prague;', u'University of Alaska Fairbanks;', u'Vogelwarte Helgoland;', u'University of Alaska Southeast;', u'University of Groningen and Cornell Lab of Ornithology;', u'Universite de Moncton;', u'Universite de Bourgogne;', u'University of Debrecen and Babes Bolyai University;', u'Montana State University;', u'Lomonosov Moscow State University;', u'Massey University;', u'Wildlife Conservation Society;', u'Delaware Bay Shorebird Project;', u'Shorebird Recovery Program;', u'Fieldday Consulting;', u'University of Bath;', u'Agencia de Salut Publica de Barcelona;', u'University of Groningen and NIOZ Royal Netherlands Institute for Sea Research;', u'U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service;', u'Poelweg 12, 1778 KB, Westerland, The Netherlands']]
[u'Lipopolysaccharide composition determines the preferred route and entry kinetics of bacterial outer membrane vesicles into host cells', ['Eloise J ODonoghue', 'Douglas F Browning', 'Ewa Bielska', 'Luke Alderwick', 'Sara Jabbari', 'Anne Marie Krachler'], u'November 1, 2016.', u'Outer membrane vesicles are microvesicles shed by Gram-negative bacteria and play important roles in immune priming and disease pathogenesis. However, our current mechanistic understanding of vesicle - host cell interactions is limited by a lack of methods to study the kinetics of vesicle entry and cargo delivery to host cells in real-time. Here, we describe a highly sensitive method to study the kinetics of vesicle entry into host cells in real-time using a genetically encoded probe targeted to vesicles. We found that route of vesicular uptake, and thus entry kinetics and efficiency of cargo release, are determined by the chemical composition of the bacterial lipopolysaccharide. The presence of O-antigen facilitates receptor-independent entry, which enhances both rate and efficiency of cargo uptake by host cells. Collectively, our findings highlight the chemical composition of the bacterial cell wall as a major determinant of secretion-independent delivery of virulence factors during Gram-negative infections.', u'/content/early/2016/11/01/084848', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Institute of Microbiology and Infection, School of Biosciences, University of Birmingham;', u'School of Mathematics, University of Birmingham;', u'Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, University of Texas McGovern Medical School']]
[u'PREDetector 2.0: Online and Enhanced Version of the Prokaryotic Regulatory Elements Detector Tool', ['Pierre Tocquin', 'Aymeric Naome', 'Samuel Jourdan', 'Sinaeda Anderssen', 'Samuel Hiard', 'Gilles P van Wezel', 'Marc Hanikenne', 'Denis Baurain', 'Sebastien Rigali'], u'November 1, 2016.', u'In the era that huge numbers of microbial genomes are being released in the databases, it becomes increasingly important to rapidly mine genes as well as predict the regulatory networks that control their expression. To this end, we have developed an improved and online version of the PREDetector software aimed at identifying putative transcription factor-binding sites (TFBS) in bacterial genomes. The original philosophy of PREDetector 1.0 is maintained, i.e. to allow users to freely fix the DNA-motif screening parameters, and to provide a statistical means to estimate the reliability of the prediction output. This new version offers an interactive table as well as graphics to dynamically alter the main screening parameters with automatic update of the list of identified putative TFBS. PREDetector 2.0 also has the following additional options: (i) access to genome sequences from different databases, (ii) access to weight matrices from public repositories, (iii) visualization of the predicted hits in their genomic context, (iv) grouping of hits identified in the same upstream region, (v) possibility to store the performed jobs, and (vi) automated export of the results in various formats. PREDetector 2.0 is available at http://predetector.fsc.ulg.ac.be/.', u'/content/early/2016/11/01/084780', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Liege;', u'University of Leiden']]
[u'Bacterial but not protist gut microbiota align with ecological specialization in a set of lower termite species', ['Lena Waidele', 'Judith Korb', 'Sven Kuenzel', 'Franck Dedeine', 'Fabian Staubach'], u'November 1, 2016.', u'The role of microbes in adaptation of higher organisms to the environment is becoming increasingly evident, but remains poorly understood. Protist and bacterial microbes facilitate that lower termites thrive on wood and are directly involved in substrate break down. During the course of evolution lower termites adapted to different diets and lifestyles. In order to test whether  there are changes of the termite gut microbiota that co-occur and hence could be related to diet and lifestyle adaptation, we assessed the bacterial and protist communities in a multispecies framework profiling three wood-dwelling and two foraging lower termite species using 16S and 18S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing. Termites were kept under controlled conditions on the same diet to minimize environmental effects on their gut microbiota. We found that protist communities group according to host phylogeny while bacterial communities group according to lifestyle. The change from the ancestral wood-dwelling to a foraging lifestyle coincides with exposure to more diverse and higher concentrations of pathogens as well as a more diverse diet. Accordingly, we identified bacteria that are associated with foraging termites of the genus Reticulitermes and could function as probiotics or be metabolically important on a more diverse diet. Furthermore, protist and bacterial diversity are correlated, suggesting not only that many termite gut bacteria are associated with protists, but also suggesting a role of protist diversity in the evolution of bacterial diversity in the termite gut or vice versa.', u'/content/early/2016/11/01/083683', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Albert Ludwigs Universitaet Freiburg;', u'Max Planck Institut fuer Evolutionsbiologie;', u'Universite de Tours']]
[u'The megabase-sized fungal genome of Rhizoctonia solani assembled from nanopore reads only.', ['Erwin Datema', 'Raymond J.M. Hulzink', 'Lisanne Blommers', 'Jose Espejo Valle-Inclan', 'Nathalie Van Orsouw', 'Alexander H.J. Wittenberg', 'Martin De Vos'], u'November 1, 2016.', u'The ability to quickly obtain accurate genome sequences of eukaryotic pathogens at low costs provides a tremendous opportunity to identify novel targets for therapeutics, develop pesticides with increased target specificity and breed for resistance in food crops. Here, we present the first report of the ~54 MB eukaryotic genome sequence of Rhizoctonia solani, an important pathogenic fungal species of maize, using nanopore technology. Moreover, we show that optimizing the strategy for wet-lab procedures aimed to isolate high quality and ultra-pure high molecular weight (HMW) DNA results in increased read length distribution and thereby allowing generation of the most contiguous genome assembly for R. solani to date. We further determined sequencing accuracy and compared the assembly to short-read technologies. With the current sequencing technology and bioinformatics tool set, we are able to deliver an eukaryotic fungal genome at low cost within a week. With further improvements of the sequencing technology and increased throughput of the PromethION sequencer we aim to generate near-finished assemblies of large and repetitive plant genomes and cost-efficiently perform de novo sequencing of large collections of microbial pathogens and the microbial communities that surround our crops.', u'/content/early/2016/11/01/084772', [u'Genomics'], [u'Keygene N.V.']]
[u'Sleep regulation of the distribution of cortical firing rates', ['Daniel Levenstein', 'Brendon O Watson', 'John Rinzel', 'Gyorgy Buzsaki'], u'November 1, 2016.', u'Sleep is thought to mediate both mnemonic and homeostatic functions. However, the mechanism by which this brain state can implement both the "selective" plasticity needed to consolidate novel memory traces as well as the "general" plasticity necessary to maintain a well-functioning neuronal system is unclear. Recent findings show that both of these functions differentially affect neurons based on their intrinsic firing rate, a ubiquitous neuronal heterogeneity. Furthermore, they are both implemented by the NREM slow oscillation, which also distinguishes neurons based on firing rate during sequential activity at the DOWN->UP transition. Together, these results suggest a mechanism by which the slow oscillation enacts homeostatic maintenance of the neuronal firing rate distribution, and "perturbation" of that activity by hippocampal replay acts to integrate new memory traces into the existing cortical network.', u'/content/early/2016/11/01/084731', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'New York University']]
