[u'A robust role for motor cortex', ['Goncalo Lopes', 'Joana Nogueira', 'Joseph J. Paton', 'Adam R. Kampff'], u'June 14, 2016.', u'The role of motor cortex in the direct control of movement remains unclear, particularly in non-primate mammals. More than a century of research using stimulation, anatomical and electrophysiological studies has implicated neural activity in this region with all kinds of movement. However, following the removal of motor cortex, or even the entire cortex, rats retain the ability to execute a surprisingly large range of adaptive behaviours, including previously learned skilled movements. In this work we revisit these two conflicting views of motor cortical control by asking what the primordial role of motor cortex is in non-primate mammals, and how it can be effectively assayed. In order to motivate the discussion we present a new assay of behaviour in the rat, challenging animals to produce robust responses to unexpected and unpredictable situations while navigating a dynamic obstacle course. Surprisingly, we found that rats with motor cortical lesions show clear impairments in dealing with an unexpected collapse of the obstacles, while showing virtually no impairment with repeated trials in many other motor and cognitive metrics of performance. We propose a new role for motor cortex: extending the robustness of sub-cortical movement systems, specifically to unexpected situations demanding rapid motor responses adapted to environmental context. The implications of this idea for current and future research are discussed.', u'/content/early/2016/06/14/058917', [], [u'Champalimaud Centre for the Unknown;', u'Sainsbury Wellcome Centre']]
[u'A Polymer Model with Epigenetic Recolouring Reveals a Pathway for the de novo Establishment and 3D Organisation of Chromatin Domains', ['Davide Michieletto', 'Enzo Orlandini', 'Davide Marenduzzo'], u'June 14, 2016.', u'One of the most important problems in development is how epigenetic domains can be first established, and then maintained, within cells. To address this question, we propose a framework which couples 3D chromatin folding dynamics, to a \u201crecolouring\u201d process modelling the writing of epigenetic marks. Because many intra-chromatin interactions are mediated by bridging proteins, we consider a \u201ctwo-state\u201d model with self-attractive interactions between two epigenetic marks which are alike (either active or inactive). This model displays a first-order-like transition between a swollen, epigenetically disordered, phase, and a compact, epigenetically coherent, chromatin globule. If the self-attraction strength exceeds a threshold, the chromatin dynamics becomes glassy, and the corresponding interaction network freezes. By modifying the epigenetic read-write process according to more biologically-inspired assumptions, our polymer model with recolouring recapitulates the ultrasensitive response of epigenetic switches to perturbations, and accounts for multi-domain conformations, strikingly similar to the topologically-associating-domains observed in eukaryotic chromosomes.', u'/content/early/2016/06/14/058933', [], [u'University of Edinburgh;', u'Universiy of Padova']]
[u'Mechanical flexibility reduces the foreign body response to long- term implanted microelectrodes in rabbit cortex', ['Harbaljit S Sohal', 'Gavin J Clowry', 'Andrew Jackson', "Anthony O'Neill", 'Stuart N Baker'], u'June 14, 2016.', u'Micromotion between the brain and implanted electrodes is a major contributor to the failure of invasive microelectrodes. Movements of the electrode tip cause recording instabilities while spike amplitudes decline over the weeks/months post-implantation due to glial cell activation caused by sustained mechanical trauma. We compared the glial response over a 26-96 week period following implantation in the rabbit cortex of microwires and a novel flexible electrode. Horizontal sections were used to obtain a depth profile of the radial distribution of microglia, astrocytes and neurofilament. We found that the flexible electrode was associated with decreased gliosis compared to the microwires over these long indwelling periods. This was in part due to a decrease in overall microgliosis and enhanced neuronal density around the flexible probe, especially at longer periods of implantation.', u'/content/early/2016/06/14/058982', [], [u'Feinstein Institute for Medical Research;', u'Institute of Neuroscience, Newcastle University;', u'School of Electrincal and Electronic Engineering, Newcastle University']]
[u'GPR4 Deficiency Alleviates Intestinal Inflammation in a Mouse Model of Inflammatory Bowel Disease', ['Edward J Sanderlin', 'Nancy R Leffler', 'Kvin Lertpiriyapong', 'Qi Cai', 'Heng Hong', 'Vasudevan Bakthavatchalu', 'James G Fox', 'Joani Zary Oswald', 'Calvin R Justus', 'Elizabeth A Krewson', "Dorcas O'Rourke", 'Li V Yang'], u'June 14, 2016.', u'GPR4 is a proton-sensing G protein-coupled receptor that can be activated by extracellular acidosis. It has recently been demonstrated that activation of GPR4 by acidosis increases the expression of numerous inflammatory and stress response genes in vascular endothelial cells (ECs) and also augments EC-leukocyte adhesion. Inhibition of GPR4 by siRNA or small molecule inhibitors reduces endothelial cell inflammation. As acidotic tissue microenvironments exist in many types of inflammatory disorders, including inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), we examined the role of GPR4 in IBD using a dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced colitis mouse model. We observed that GPR4 mRNA expression was increased in mouse and human IBD tissues when compared to control intestinal tissues. To determine the function of GPR4 in IBD, wild-type and GPR4-deficient mice were treated with 3% DSS for 7 days to induce acute colitis. Our results showed that the severity of colitis was decreased in GPR4-deficient DSS-treated mice in comparison to wild-type DSS-treated mice. Clinical parameters, macroscopic disease indicators, and histopathological features were less severe in the DSS-treated GPR4-deficient mice than the DSS-treated wild-type mice. Inflammatory gene expression, leukocyte infiltration, and isolated lymphoid follicle (ILF) formation were reduced in intestinal tissues of DSS-treated GPR4-null mice. Collectively, our results suggest GPR4 provides a pro-inflammatory role in IBD as the absence of GPR4 ameliorates intestinal inflammation in the acute DSS-induced IBD mouse model.', u'/content/early/2016/06/14/059014', [u'Pathology'], [u'East Carolina University;', u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology']]
[u'Unbiased whole-genome deep sequencing of human and porcine stool samples reveals circulation of multiple groups of rotaviruses and a putative zoonotic infection', ['My V.T. Phan', 'Pham Hong Anh', 'Nguyen Van Cuong', 'Bas B. Oude Munnink', 'Lia van der Hoek', 'Phuc Tran My', 'Tue Ngo Tri', 'Juliet E. Bryant', 'Stephen Baker', 'Guy Thwaites', 'Mark Woolhouse', 'Paul Kellam', 'Maia A Rabaa', 'Matthew L Cotten'], u'June 14, 2016.', u'Coordinated and synchronous virological surveillance for zoonotic viruses in both human clinical cases and animal reservoirs provides an opportunity to identify interspecies virus movement. Rotavirus is an important cause of viral gastroenteritis in humans and animals. We have documented the rotavirus diversity within co-located humans and animals sampled from the Mekong delta region of Vietnam using a primer-independent, agnostic, deep sequencing approach. A total of 296 stool samples (146 from diarrhoeal human patients and 150 from pigs living in the same geographical region) were directly sequenced, generating the genomic sequences of 60 human rotaviruses (all group A) and 31 porcine rotaviruses (13 group A, 7 group B, 6 group C and 5 group H). Phylogenetic analyses showed the co-circulation of multiple distinct rotavirus group A (RVA) genotypes/strains, many of which were divergent from the strain components of licensed RVA vaccines, as well as considerable virus diversity in pigs including full genomes of rotaviruses in groups B, C and H, none of which have been previously reported in Vietnam. Furthermore the detection of an atypical RVA genotype constellation (G4-P[6]-I1-R1-C1-M1-A8-N1-T7-E1-H1) in a human patient and a pig from the same region provides some evidence for a  zoonotic event.', u'/content/early/2016/06/14/058875', [u'Genomics'], [u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'Oxford University Clinical Research Unit, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam;', u'Laboratory of Experimental Virology, Academic Medical Center, University of Amsterdam;', u'Centre for Immunity, Infection & Evolution, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, United Kingdom;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institue']]
[u'Long-term, layer-specific modification of spontaneous activity in the mouse somatosensory cortex following sensory stimulation', ['Elena Phoka', 'Aleksandra Berditchevskaia', 'Mauricio Barahona', 'Simon Schultz'], u'June 14, 2016.', u'Neocortical circuits exhibit spontaneous neuronal activity whose functional relevance remains enigmatic. Several proposed functions assume that sensory experience can influence subsequent spontaneous activity. However, long-term alterations in spontaneous firing rates following sensory stimulation have not been reported until now. Here we show that multi-whisker, spatiotemporally rich stimulation of mouse vibrissae induces a laminar-specific, long-term increase of spontaneous activity in the somatosensory cortex. Such stimulation additionally produces stereotypical neural ensemble firing patterns from simultaneously recorded single neurons, which are maintained during spontaneous activity following stimulus offset. The increased neural activity and concomitant ensemble firing patterns are sustained for at least 25 minutes after stimulation, and specific to layers IV and Vb. In contrast, the same stimulation protocol applied to a single whisker fails to elicit this effect. Since layer Vb has the largest receptive fields and, together with layer IV, receives direct thalamic and lateral drive, the increase in firing activity could be the result of mechanisms involving the integration of spatiotemporal patterns across multiple whiskers. Our results provide direct evidence of modification of spontaneous cortical activity by sensory stimulation and could offer insight into the role of spatiotemporal integration in memory storage mechanisms for complex stimuli.', u'/content/early/2016/06/14/058958', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Imperial College London']]
[u'Gene tree discordance generates patterns of diminishing convergence over time', ['Fabio K Mendes', 'Yoonsoo Hahn', 'Matthew W Hahn'], u'June 14, 2016.', u'Phenotypic convergence is an exciting outcome of adaptive evolution, occurring when species find similar solutions to the same problem. Unraveling the molecular basis of convergence provides a way to link genotype to adaptive phenotypes, but can also shed light on the extent to which evolution is repeatable and predictable. Many recent genome-wide studies have uncovered a striking pattern of diminishing convergence over time, ascribing this pattern to the presence of intramolecular epistatic interactions. Here, we consider gene tree discordance as an alternative driver of convergence levels over time. We demonstrate that gene tree discordance can produce patterns of diminishing convergence by itself, and that controlling for discordance as a cause of apparent convergence makes the pattern disappear. We also show that synonymous substitutions, where neither selection nor epistasis should be prevalent, have the same diminishing pattern of molecular convergence among closely related primate species. Finally, we demonstrate that even in situations where biological discordance is not possible, errors in species tree inference can drive these same patterns. Though intramolecular epistasis is undoubtedly affecting many proteins, our results suggest an additional explanation for this widespread pattern. These results contribute to a growing appreciation not just of the presence of gene tree discordance, but of the unpredictable effects this discordance can have on analyses of molecular evolution.', u'/content/early/2016/06/14/059006', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Indiana University;', u'Chung-Ang University']]
[u'Precise Cas9 targeting enables genomic mutation prevention', ['Alejandro Chavez', 'Benjamin W Pruitt', 'Marcelle Tuttle', 'Rebecca S Shapiro', 'Ryan J Cecchi', 'Jordan Winston', 'Brian M Turczyk', 'Michael Tung', 'James J Collins', 'George M Church'], u'June 14, 2016.', u'Here we present a generalized method of guide RNA tuning that enables Cas9 to discriminate between two target sites that differ by a single nucleotide polymorphism.  We employ our methodology to generate a novel in vivo mutation prevention system in which Cas9 actively restricts the occurrence of undesired gain-of-function mutations within a population of engineered organisms. We further demonstrate that the system is scalable to a multitude of targets and that the general tuning and prevention concepts are portable across engineered Cas9 variants and Cas9 orthologs. Finally, we show that the designed mutation prevention system maintains robust activity even when placed within the complex environment of the mouse gastrointestinal tract.', u'/content/early/2016/06/14/058974', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'Wyss Institute at Harvard University']]
[u'FPD: A comprehensive phosphorylation database in fungi', ['Youhuang Bai', 'Bin Chen', 'Yincong Zhou', 'Silin Ren', 'Qin Xu', 'Ming Chen', 'Shihua Wang'], u'June 14, 2016.', u'Protein phosphorylation, one of the most classic post-translational modification, plays a critical role in the diverse cellular processes including cell cycle, growth and signal transduction pathways. However, the available information of phosphorylation in fungi is limited. Here we provided a Fungi Phosphorylation Database (FPD) that comprises high-confidence in vivo phosphosites identified by MS-based proteomics in various fungal species. This comprehensive phosphorylation database contains 62,272 non-redundant phosphorylation sites in 11,222 proteins across eight organisms, including Aspergillus flavus, Aspergillus nidulans, Fusarium graminearum, Magnaporthe oryzae, Neurospora crassa, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Schizosaccharomyces pombe and Cryptococcus neoformans. A fungi-specific phosphothreonine motif and several conserved phosphorylation motif were discovered by comparatively analyzing the pattern of phosphorylation sites in fungi, plants and animals.', u'/content/early/2016/06/14/058867', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University;', u'Zhejiang University']]
[u'A cell type-specific expression signature predicts haploinsufficient autism-susceptibility genes', ['Chaolin Zhang', 'Yufeng Shen'], u'June 14, 2016.', u'Recent studies have identified many genes with rare de novo mutations in autism, but a limited number of these have been conclusively established as disease-susceptibility genes due to lack of recurrence and confounding background mutations.  Such extreme genetic heterogeneity severely limits recurrence-based statistical power even in studies with a large sample size.  In addition, the cellular contexts in which these genomic lesions confer disease risks remain poorly understood.  Here we investigate the use of cell-type specific expression profiles to differentiate mutations in autism patients or unaffected siblings.  Using 24 distinct cell types isolated from the mouse central nervous system, we identified an expression signature shared by genes with likely gene disrupting (LGD) mutations detected by exome-sequencing in autism cases.  The signature reflects haploinsufficiency of risk genes enriched in transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulators, with the strongest positive associations with specific types of neurons in different brain regions, including cortical neurons, cerebellar granule cells, and striatal medium spiny neurons.  Based on this signature, we assigned a D score to all human genes to prioritize candidate autism-susceptibility genes.  When applied to genes with only a single LGD mutation in cases, the D score achieved a precision of 40% as compared to the 15% baseline with a minimal loss in sensitivity.  Further improvement was made by combining D score and mutation intolerance metrics from ExAC which were derived from orthogonal data sources.  The ensemble model achieved precision of 60% and predicted 117 high-priority candidates. These prioritized lists can facilitate identification of additional autism-susceptibility genes.', u'/content/early/2016/06/14/058826', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Columbia University']]
[u'Networks that link cytoskeletal regulators and diaphragm proteins underpin filtration function in Drosophila nephrocytes.', ['Simi Muraleedharan', 'Helen Skaer', 'Maneesha S Inamdar'], u'June 14, 2016.', u'Insect nephrocytes provide a valuable model for kidney disease, as they are structurally and functionally homologous to mammalian kidney podocytes. They possess an exceptional macromolecular assembly, the nephrocyte diaphragm (ND), which serves as a filtration barrier and helps maintain tissue homeostasis by filtering out wastes and toxic products. However, the nephrocyte architecture and elements that maintain the ND are not understood. We show that Drosophila nephrocytes have a unique cytoplasmic cluster of F-actin, which is maintained by the microtubule cytoskeleton and Rho-GTPases. A balance of Rac1 and Cdc42 activity as well as proper microtubule organization is required for positioning the actin cluster. Further, ND proteins Sns and Duf also localize to this cluster and regulate organization of the actin and microtubule cytoskeleton. Perturbation of any of these inter-dependent components impairs nephrocyte ultrafiltration. Thus cytoskeletal components, Rho-GTPases and ND proteins work in concert to maintain the specialized nephrocyte architecture and function.', u'/content/early/2016/06/14/056911', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research;', u'University of Cambridge']]
[u'Refutation: Structure and mechanism of the essential two-component signal-transduction system WalKR in Staphylococcus aureus.', ['Ian R. Monk', 'Torsten Seemann', 'Benjamin P. Howden', 'Timothy P. Stinear'], u'June 14, 2016.', u'In a recent report in Nature Communications, Ji et al., (2016) describe the structure of the extracytoplasmic Per-Arnt-Sim (PAS) domain of WalK (WalKEC-PAS), the sensor kinase of the essential two-component regulator WalKR in Staphylococcus aureus. The authors make two independent walK S. aureus mutants by changing two amino acid residues they postulate from structural analysis and comparisons might be important for signal transduction. We have also been exploring the function of WalKR and were surprised by the striking phenotypic impact of these single amino acid substitutions in the WalK sensor, which are contrary to our own (unpublished) observations.', u'/content/early/2016/06/14/058842', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Melbourne']]
[u'A logic approach to modeling nomenclatural change', ['Nico Franz', 'Chao Zhang', 'Joohyung Lee'], u'June 14, 2016.', u'We utilize an Answer Set Programming (ASP) approach to show that the principles of nomenclature are tractable in computational logic. To this end we design a hypothetical, 20 nomenclatural taxon use case with starting conditions that embody several overarching principles of the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature; including Binomial Nomenclature, Priority, Coordination, Homonymy, Typification, and the structural requirement of Gender Agreement. The use case ending conditions are triggered by the reinterpretation of the diagnostic features of one of 12 type specimens anchoring the corresponding species-level names. Permutations of this child-to-parent reassignment action lead to 36 alternative scenarios, where each scenario requires 1-14 logically contingent nomenclatural emendations. We show that an ASP transition system approach can correctly infer the Code-mandated changes for each scenario, and visually output the ending conditions. The results provide a foundation for further developing logic-based nomenclatural change optimization and compliance verification services, which could be applied in globally coordinated nomenclatural registries. More generally, logic explorations of nomenclatural and taxonomic change scenarios provide a novel means of assessing design biases inherent in the principles of nomenclature, and thus may inform the design of future, big data-compatible identifier systems for systematic products that recognize and mitigate these constraints.', u'/content/early/2016/06/14/058834', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Arizona State University']]
[u'SourceData - a semantic platform for curating and searching figures', ['Robin Liechti', 'Lou Gotz', 'Nancy George', 'Sara El-Gebali', 'Isaac Crespo', 'Ioannis Xenarios', 'Thomas Lemberger'], u'June 13, 2016.', u'In molecular and cell biology, most of the data presented in published papers are not available in accessible formats that would allow for analysis and systematic mining. Here we present SourceData (http://sourcedata.embo.org), a platform that allows researchers and publishers to share scientific figures and, when available, the underlying source data in a way that is machine-readable and findable. SourceData has therefore developed tools to generate machine-readable descriptive metadata from figures in published manuscripts. Experimentally tested hypotheses are represented as directed relationships between standardized biological entities, which can be connected into a searchable data-oriented \u2032knowledge graph\u2032. SourceData focuses on the core of scientific evidence - data presented in figures - and makes papers searchable based on their data content. By coupling data availability to improved discoverability, SourceData aims at establishing a self-reinforcing data \u2032ecosystem\u2032 that bridges the conventional visual and narrative description of research findings with a machine-readable representation of data and hypotheses.', u'/content/early/2016/06/13/058529', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics;', u'EMBO']]
[u'Genetic and transcriptional analysis of human host response to healthy gut microbiome', ['Allison L Richards', 'Michael B Burns', 'Adnan Alazizi', 'Luis B Barreiro', 'Roger Pique-Regi', 'Ran Blekhman', 'Francesca Luca'], u'June 13, 2016.', u'Many studies have demonstrated the importance of the gut microbiome in healthy and disease states. However, establishing the causality of host- microbiome interactions in humans is still challenging. Here, we describe a novel experimental system to define the transcriptional response induced by the microbiome in human cells and to shed light on the molecular mechanisms underlying host-gut microbiome interactions. In primary human colonic epithelial cells, we identified over 6,000 genes that change expression at various time points following co-culturing with the gut microbiome of a healthy individual. The differentially expressed genes are enriched for genes associated with several microbiome-related diseases, such as obesity and colorectal cancer. In addition, our experimental system allowed us to identify 87 host SNPs that show allele-specific expression in 69 genes. Furthermore, for 12 SNPs in 12 different genes, allele-specific expression is conditional on the exposure to the microbiome. Of these 12 genes, eight have been associated with diseases linked to the gut microbiome, specifically colorectal cancer, obesity and type 2 diabetes. Our study demonstrates a scalable approach to study host-gut microbiome interactions and can be used to identify putative mechanisms for the interplay between host genetics and microbiome in health and disease.', u'/content/early/2016/06/13/058784', [u'Genomics'], [u'Wayne State University;', u'University of Minnesota;', u'University of Montreal']]
