[u'An aging-independent replicative lifespan in a symmetrically dividing eukaryote', ['Eric C. Spivey', 'Stephen K. Jones', 'James R. Rybarski', 'Fatema A. Saifuddin', 'Ilya J. Finkelstein'], u'July 19, 2016.', u'The replicative lifespan (RLS) of a cell - defined as the number of generations a cell divides before death - has informed our understanding of the molecular mechanisms of cellular aging. Nearly all RLS studies have been performed on budding yeast and little is known about the mechanisms of aging and longevity in symmetrically dividing eukaryotic cells. Here, we describe a multiplexed fission yeast (Schizosaccharomyces pombe) lifespan micro-dissector (FYLM); a microfluidic platform for performing automated micro-dissection and high-content single-cell analysis in well-defined culture conditions. Using the FYLM, we directly observe continuous and robust replication of hundreds of individual fission yeast cells for over seventy-five cell divisions. Surprisingly, cells die without any classic hallmarks of cellular aging such as changes in cell morphology, increased doubling time, or reduced sibling health. Genetic perturbations and longevity-enhancing drugs can further extend the replicative lifespan (RLS) via an aging-independent mechanism. We conclude that despite occasional sudden death of individual cells, fission yeast does not age. These results highlight that cellular aging and replicative lifespan can be uncoupled in a eukaryotic cell.', u'/content/early/2016/07/19/064832', [], [u'University of Texas at Austin']]
[u'SMRT Genome Assembly Corrects Reference Errors, Resolving the Genetic Basis of Virulence in Mycobacterium tuberculosis', ['Afif Elghraoui', 'Samuel J Modlin', 'Faramarz Valafar'], u'July 19, 2016.', u'The genetic basis of virulence in Mycobacterium tuberculosis has been investigated through genome comparisons of its virulent (H37Rv) and\nattenuated (H37Ra) sister strains. Such analysis, however, relies heavily on the accuracy of the sequences. While the H37Rv reference genome has had several corrections to date, that of H37Ra is unmodified since its original publication. Here, we report the assembly and finishing of the H37Ra genome from single-molecule, real-time (SMRT) sequencing.\nOur assembly reveals that the number of H37Ra-specific variants is less than half of what the Sanger-based H37Ra reference sequence indicates,\nundermining and, in some cases, invalidating the conclusions of several studies. PE_PPE family genes, which are intractable to commonly-used\nsequencing platforms because of their repetitive and GC-rich nature, are overrepresented in the set of genes in which all reported H37Ra-specific variants are contradicted. We discuss how our results change the picture of virulence attenuation and the power of SMRT sequencing for producing high-quality reference genomes.', u'/content/early/2016/07/19/064840', [], [u'San Diego State University']]
[u'A scored human protein-protein interaction network to catalyze genomic interpretation', ['Taibo Li', 'Rasmus Wernersson', 'Rasmus Borup Hansen', 'Heiko Horn', 'Johnathan M Mercer', 'Greg Slodkowicz', 'Christopher Workman', 'Olga Regina', 'Kristoffer Rapacki', 'Hans-Henrik Staerfeldt', 'Soren Brunak', 'Thomas S Jensen', 'Kasper Lage'], u'July 19, 2016.', u'Human protein-protein interaction networks are critical to understanding cell biology and interpreting genetic and genomic data, but are challenging to produce in individual large-scale experiments. We describe a general computational framework that through data integration and quality control provides a scored human protein-protein interaction network (InWeb_IM). Juxtaposed with five comparable resources, InWeb_IM has 2.8 times more interactions (~585K) and a superior functional signal showing that the added interactions reflect real cellular biology. InWeb_IM is a versatile resource for accurate and cost-efficient functional interpretation of massive genomic datasets illustrated by annotating candidate genes from >4,700 cancer genomes and genes involved in neuropsychiatric diseases.', u'/content/early/2016/07/19/064535', [], [u'MIT, Broad Institute, Mass General Hospital;', u'Intomics, Technical University of Denmark;', u'Intomics;', u'Massachusetts General Hospital, Broad Institute;', u'Broad Institute, Mass General Hospital;', u'Technical University of Denmark, EMBL;', u'Technical University of Denmark;', u'University of Copenhagen;', u'Harvard, Broad Institute, Mass General Hospital']]
[u'Whose sample is it anyway? Widespread misannotation of samples in transcriptomics studies', ['Lilah Toker', 'Min Feng', 'Paul Pavlidis'], u'July 19, 2016.', u'Concern about the reproducibility and reliability of biomedical research has been rising. An understudied issue is the prevalence of sample mislabeling, one impact of which would be invalid comparisons. We studied this issue in a corpus of human genomics studies by comparing the provided annotations of sex to the expression levels of sex-specific genes. We identified apparent mislabeled samples in 46% of the datasets studied, yielding a 99% confidence lower-bound estimate for all studies of 33%. In a separate analysis of a set of datasets concerning a single cohort of subjects, 2/4 had mislabelled samples, indicating laboratory mix-ups rather than data recording errors. While the number of mixed-up samples per study was generally small, because our method can only identify a subset of potential mix-ups, our estimate is conservative for the breadth of the problem. Our findings emphasize the need for more stringent sample tracking, and that re-users of published data must be alert to the possibility of annotation and labelling errors.', u'/content/early/2016/07/19/064626', [], [u'University of British Columbia']]
[u'Towards robust evolutionary inference with integral projection models', ['Maria Joao Janeiro', 'Marco Festa-Bianchet', 'Fanie Pelletier', 'David W Coltman', 'Michael B Morrissey'], u'July 19, 2016.', u'Integral projection models (IPMs) are extremely flexible tools for ecological and evolutionary inference. IPMs track the full joint distribution of phenotype in populations through time, using functions describing phenotype-dependent development, inheritance, survival and fecundity. For evolutionary inference, two important features of any model are the ability to (i) characterize relationships among traits (including values of the same traits across age) within individuals, and (ii) characterize similarity between individuals and their descendants. In IPM analyses, the former depends on regressions of observed trait values at each age on values at the previous age (development functions), and the latter on regressions of offspring values at birth on parent values as adults (inheritance functions). We show analytically that development functions, characterized this way, will typically underestimate covariances of trait values across ages, due to compounding of regression to the mean across projection steps.  Similarly, we show that inheritance, characterized this way, is inconsistent with a modern understanding of inheritance, and underestimates the degree to which relatives are phenotypically similar. Additionally, we show that the use of a constant biometric inheritance function, particularly with a constant intercept, is incompatible with evolution. Consequently, we should expect current constructions of IPMs to predict little or no phenotypic evolution, purely as artifacts of their construction. We present alternative approaches to constructing development and inheritance functions, based on a quantitative genetic approach, and show analytically and by empirical example, using a population of bighorn sheep, how they can potentially recover patterns that are critical to evolutionary inference.', u'/content/early/2016/07/19/064618', [], [u'University of St Andrews/Universidade de Aveiro;', u'Universite de Sherbrooke;', u'University of Alberta;', u'University of St Andrews']]
[u'A clonally reproducing generalist aphid pest colonises diverse host plants by rapid transcriptional plasticity of duplicated gene clusters', ['Thomas C Mathers', 'Yazhou Chen', 'Gemy Kaithakottil', 'Fabrice Legeai', 'Sam T Mugford', 'Patrice Baa-Puyoulet', 'Anthony Bretaudeau', 'Bernardo Clavijo', 'Stefano Colella', 'Olivier Collin', 'Tamas Dalmay', 'Thomas Derrien', 'Honglin Feng', 'Toni Gabaldon', 'Anna Jordan', 'Irene Julca', 'Graeme J Kettles', 'Krissana Kowitwanich', 'Dominique Lavenier', 'Paolo Lenzi', 'Sara Lopez-Gomollon', 'Damian Loska', 'Daniel Mapleson', 'Florian Maumus', 'Simon Moxon', 'Daniel R G Price', 'Akiko Sugio', 'Manuella van Munster', 'Marilyne Uzest', 'Darren Waite', 'Georg Jander', 'Denis Tagu', 'Alex C C Wilson', 'Cock van Oosterhout', 'David Swarbreck', 'Saskia A Hogenhout'], u'July 19, 2016.', u'Background The prevailing paradigm of host-parasite evolution is that arms races lead to increasing specialisation via genetic adaptation. Insect herbivores are no exception, and the majority have evolved to colonise a small number of closely related host species. Remarkably, the green peach aphid, Myzus persicae, colonises plant species across 40 families and single M. persicae clonal lineages can colonise distantly related plants. This remarkable ability makes M. persicae a highly destructive pest of many important crop species.\nResults To investigate the exceptional phenotypic plasticity of M. persicae, we sequenced the M. persicae genome and assessed how one clonal lineage responds to host plant species of different families. We show that genetically identical individuals are able to colonise distantly related host species through the differential regulation of genes belonging to aphid-expanded gene families. Multigene clusters collectively up-regulate in single aphids within two days upon host switch. Furthermore, we demonstrate the functional significance of this rapid transcriptional change using RNA interference (RNAi)-mediated knock-down of genes belonging to the cathepsin B gene family. Knock-down of cathepsin B genes reduced aphid fitness, but only on the host that induced up-regulation of these genes.\nConclusions Previous research has focused on the role of genetic adaptation of parasites to their hosts. Here we show that the generalist aphid pest M. persicae is able to colonise diverse host plant species in the absence of genetic specialisation. This is achieved through rapid transcriptional plasticity of genes that have duplicated during aphid evolution.', u'/content/early/2016/07/19/063610', [], [u'Earlham Institute;', u'John Innes Centre;', u'Institute of Genetics Environment and Plant Protection;', u'INSA-Lyon;', u'IRISA/INRIA;', u'University of East Anglia;', u'Institut de G\xe9n\xe9tique et Developpement de Rennes;', u'University of Miami;', u'Centre for Genomic Regulation;', u'Unit\xe9 de Recherche G\xe9nomique-Info;', u'UMR BGPI;', u'Boyce Thompson Institute for Plant Research;', u'Jaohn Innes Centre']]
[u'Resolution and reconciliation of non-binary gene trees with transfers, duplications and losses', ['Edwin Jacox', 'Mathias Weller', 'Eric Tannier', 'Celine Scornavacca'], u'July 19, 2016.', u'Motivation: Gene trees reconstructed from sequence alignments contain poorly supported branches when the phylogenetic signal in the sequences is weak. When a species tree is available, the signal of gains and losses of genes can be used to correctly resolve the unsupported parts of the gene history. Unfortunately, finding the best (i.e. most parsimonious) resolution has been shown to be NP-hard if transfers are considered as possible gene scale events, in addition to gene originations, duplications and losses.\nResults: We propose an exact, parameterized algorithm solving this problem in single-exponential time, where the parameter is the number of connected branches of the gene tree that show low support from the sequence alignment or, equivalently, the maximum number of children of any node of the gene tree once the low-support branches have been collapsed. We propose a way to choose among optimal solutions based on the available information. We show the usability of this principle on several simulated and biological data sets. The results show a comparable or better quality than several other tested methods having similar goals, but with a lower running time and a guarantee on the optimality of the solution. Availability: Our algorithm has been integrated into the ecceTERA phylogeny package, available at http://mbb.univ-montp2.fr/MBB/download_sources/16__ecceTERA and which can be run online at http://mbb.univ-montp2.fr/MBB/subsection/softExec.php?soft=eccetera.', u'/content/early/2016/07/19/064675', [], [u'ISE-M, Universit\xe9 Montpellier;', u'LIRMM, Universit\xe9 Montpellier;', u'INRIA Rh\xf4ne-Alpes, LBBE, Universit\xe9 Lyon 1;', u'ISE-M, niversity Montpellier, CNRS']]
[u'Genome Urbanization: Gene localization, spacing and direction of transcription in S. cerevisiae are constrained by DNA topological tension.', ['Maria Tsochatzidou', 'Maria Malliarou', 'Joaquim Roca', 'Christoforos Nikolaou'], u'July 19, 2016.', u'Background: The eukaryotic genome evolves under the dual constraint of maintaining co-ordinated gene transcription and performing effective DNA replication and cell division, the coupling of which brings about inevitable tension in DNA topology. This is resolved and in some cases even harnessed by the genome through the function of DNA topoisomerases, as has been shown in the concurrent transcriptional activation and suppression of genes upon transient deactivation of topoisomerase II and distinct areas of the genome are expected to be differentially affected by DNA topological constraints. The scope of this work is to identify positional and structural preferences in the distribution of genes, relative to their response to DNA topological stress. \nResults: By analyzing a genome wide run-on experiment upon thermal inactivation of topo II in S. cerevisiae we were able to define 117 gene clusters of concerted response (either positive or negative) to topological stress. A comprehensive analysis of these "topologically-constrained" gene clusters revealed pronounced preferences regarding their functional, regulatory and structural attributes. Our findings point towards a particular genome compartmentalization, according to which genes that negatively respond to topological stress, are positioned in gene-dense pericentromeric regions, are more conserved and associated to essential functions, while up-regulated gene clusters are preferentially located in the gene-sparse nuclear periphery, associated with secondary functions and under complex regulatory control. \nConclusions: This multi-faceted "division of labour" is much resembling a "genome urbanization" process with a core of essential genes occupying a compact genomic "old town", whereas more recently acquired, condition-specific genes are located in a more spacious "suburban" genomic periphery.', u'/content/early/2016/07/19/064667', [], [u'Computational Genomics Group, Department of Biology, University of Crete, Heraklion, Greece;', u'Molecular Biology Institute of Barcelona (IBMB), Spanish National Research Council (CSIC), Barcelona']]
[u'A causal role for right frontopolar cortex in directed, but not random, exploration.', ['Wojciech K. Zajkowski', 'Robert C. Wilson', 'Malgorzata Kossut'], u'July 19, 2016.', u'The explore-exploit dilemma occurs anytime we must choose between exploring unknown options for information and exploiting known resources for reward. Previous work suggests that people use two different strategies to solve the explore-exploit dilemma: directed exploration driven by information seeking and random exploration driven by decision noise. Here, we show that these two strategies rely on different neural systems. Using transcranial\nmagnetic stimulation to selectively inhibit right frontopolar cortex, we were able to selectively inhibit directed exploration while leaving random exploration intact, suggesting a causal role for right frontopolar cortex in directed, but not random, exploration.', u'/content/early/2016/07/19/064741', [], [u'University of Social Psychology and Humanities;', u'Arizona University;', u'Nencki Institute']]
[u'Beyond APs and VPs: evidences of chaos and self-organized criticality in electrical signals in plants.', ['Gustavo Maia Souza', 'Gustavo Francisco Rosalim Saraiva', 'Arlan Silva Ferreira'], u'July 19, 2016.', u'Studies on plant electrophysiology are mostly focused on specific traits of action potentials (APs) and/or variation potentials (VPs), often in single cells. Inspired by the complexity of the signaling network in plants and by analogies with some traits of neurons in human brains, we have sought for evidences of high complexity in the electrical dynamics of plant signaling, beyond APs and VPs responses. Thus, from EEG-like data analyses of soybean plants, we showed consistent evidences of chaotic dynamics in the electrical time series. Furthermore, we have found that the dynamic complexity of electrical signals is affected by the plant physiological conditions, decreasing when plant was stressed. Surprisingly, but not unlikely, we have observed that, after stimuli, electrical spikes arise following a power law distribution, which is indicative of self-organized criticality (SOC). Since, as far as we know, these were the first evidences of chaos and SOC in plant electrophysiology, we have asked follow-up questions and we have proposed new hypotheses, seeking for improving our understanding about these findings.', u'/content/early/2016/07/19/064790', [], [u'Federal University of Pelotas;', u'Universidade do Oeste Paulista']]
[u'KAT: A K-mer Analysis Toolkit to quality control NGS datasets and genome assemblies', ['Daniel Mapleson', 'Gonzalo Garcia Accinelli', 'George Kettleborough', 'Jonathan Wright', 'Bernardo Clavijo'], u'July 19, 2016.', u"ABSTRACT\nMotivation: De novo assembly of whole genome shotgun (WGS) next-generation sequencing (NGS) data benefits from high-quality input with high coverage. However, in practice, determining the quality and quantity of useful reads quickly and in a reference-free manner is not trivial. Gaining a better understanding of the WGS data, and how that data is utilised by assemblers, provides useful insights that can inform the assembly process and result in better assemblies.\nResults: We present the K-mer Analysis Toolkit (KAT): a multi-purpose software toolkit for reference-free quality control (QC) of WGS reads and de novo genome assemblies, primarily via their k-mer frequencies and GC composition. KAT enables users to assess levels of errors, bias and contamination at various stages of the assembly process.\nIn this paper we highlight KAT's ability to provide valuable insights into assembly composition and quality of genome assemblies through pairwise comparison of k-mers present in both input reads and the assemblies.\nAvailability: KAT is available under the GPLv3 license at: https://github.com/TGAC/KAT.", u'/content/early/2016/07/19/064733', [], [u'Earlham Institute']]
[u'Ethological principles predict the neuropeptides co-opted to influence parenting.', ['Christopher B Cunningham', 'Majors J Badgett', 'Richard B Meagher', 'Ron Orlando', 'Allen J Moore'], u'July 19, 2016.', u'Ethologists predicted that parental care evolves by modifying suitable behavioural precursors in the asocial ancestor, such as nest building, defensive and aggressive behaviours, and potentially shared resources. From this, we predicted that the evolved mechanistic changes would reside in genetic pathways underlying these behavioural precursors. We tested this by measuring differential expression of neuropeptides in female Nicrophorus vespilloides Parenting in this species is extensive and complex as caring adults regurgitate food to begging, dependent offspring. We identified neuropeptides associated with mating, feeding, aggression, and social interactions by sampling females in different behavioural states: solitary, actively parenting, or post-parenting and solitary. We measured peptide abundance in adult female brains and identified 130 peptides belonging to 17 neuropeptides. Of these 17, seven were differentially expressed. Six of the seven were up-regulated during parenting. None of the identified neuropeptides have previously been associated with parental care, but all have known roles in the behavioural precursors. Two, tachykinin and sulfakinin, influence multiple pathways. Our study supports the prediction that appropriate behavioural precursors are likely targets of selection during the evolution of parenting. Evolutionary principles predicted neuropeptides influencing social behaviour, and our results provide several new candidate neuropeptides underpinning parenting.', u'/content/early/2016/07/19/064808', [], [u'University of Georgia']]
[u'Genetic loci associated with coronary artery disease harbor evidence of selection and antagonistic pleiotropy', ['Sean G Byars', 'Qinqin Huang', 'Lesley-Ann Gray', 'Samuli Ripatti', 'Gad Abraham', 'Stephen C Stearns', 'Michael Inouye'], u'July 19, 2016.', u'Traditional genome-wide scans for positive selection have mainly uncovered selective sweeps associated with monogenic traits. While selection on quantitative traits is much more common, very few signals have been detected because of their polygenic nature. We searched for positive selection signals underlying coronary artery disease (CAD) in worldwide populations, using novel approaches to quantify relationships between polygenic selection signals and CAD genetic risk. We identified candidate adaptive loci that may have been directly modified by disease pressures given their significant associations with CAD genetic risk. Top candidates were consistently associated with reproductive-traits suggesting antagonistic-pleiotropic tradeoffs with early-life phenotypes and also showed more evidence of gene regulatory effects in HapMap3 lymphoblastoid cell lines than non-adaptive candidates. Our study provides a novel approach for detecting selection on polygenic traits and evidence that modern human genomes have evolved in response to CAD-induced selection pressures and other early-life traits sharing pleiotropic links with CAD.', u'/content/early/2016/07/19/064758', [], [u'Centre for Systems Genomics, School of BioSciences, The University of Melbourne;', u'National Institute for Health and Welfare, Helsinki, Finland;', u'Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Yale University']]
[u'Maternal immune activation dysregulation of the fetal brain transcriptome and relevance to the pathophysiology of autism spectrum disorder', ['Michael V Lombardo', 'Hyang Mi Moon', 'Jennifer Su', 'Theo D Palmer', 'Eric Courchesne', 'Tiziano Pramparo'], u'July 19, 2016.', u'Maternal immune activation (MIA) via infection during pregnancy is known to increase risk for autism spectrum disorder (ASD). However, it is unclear how MIA disrupts fetal brain gene expression in ways that may explain this increased risk. Here we examine how MIA dysregulates fetal brain gene expression near the end of the first trimester of human gestation in ways relevant to ASD-associated pathophysiology. MIA downregulates expression of ASD- associated genes, with the largest enrichments in genes known to harbor rare highly penetrant mutations. MIA also downregulates expression of many genes also known to be persistently downregulated in ASD cortex later in life and which are canonically known for roles in affecting prenatally-late developmental processes at the synapse. Transcriptional and translational programs that are downstream targets of highly ASD-penetrant FMR1 and CHD8 genes are also heavily affected by MIA. MIA strongly upregulates expression of a large number of genes involved in translation initiation, cell cycle, DNA damage, and proteolysis processes that affect multiple key neural developmental functions. Upregulation of translation initiation is common to and preserved in gene network structure with the ASD cortical transcriptome throughout life and has downstream impact on cell cycle processes. The cap-dependent translation initiation gene, EIF4E, is one of the most MIA-dysregulated of all ASD-associated genes and targeted network analyses demonstrate prominent MIA-induced transcriptional dysregulation of mTOR and EIF4E-dependent signaling. This dysregulation of translation initiation via alteration of the Tsc2-mTor-Eif4e-axis was further validated across MIA rodent models. MIA may confer increased risk for ASD by dysregulating key aspects of fetal brain gene expression that are highly relevant to pathophysiology affecting ASD.', u'/content/early/2016/07/19/064683', [], [u'University of Cyprus;', u'Stanford University;', u'University of California, San Diego']]
[u'Identification of a novel putative interaction partner of the nucleoporin ALADIN', ['Ramona Juhlen', 'Dana Landgraf', 'Angela Huebner', 'Katrin Koehler'], u'July 19, 2016.', u'It has been shown that the nucleoporin ALADIN employs a significant role in the redox homeostasis of the cell but the function in steroidogenesis contributing to adrenal atrophy in triple A syndrome remains largely unknown. In an attempt to identify new interaction partners of ALADIN, co-immunoprecipitation followed by proteome analysis was conducted in different expression models using the human adrenocortical tumour cell line NCI-H295R. Our results suggest an interaction of ALADIN with the microsomal protein PGRMC2. PGRMC2 is shown to be activity regulator of CYP P450 enzymes and therefore, to be a possible target for adrenal dysregulation in triple A syndrome. We show that there is a sexual dimorphism regarding the expression of Pgrmc2 in adrenals and gonads of WT and Aaas KO mice. Female Aaas KO mice are sterile due to delayed oocyte maturation and meiotic spindle assembly. A participation in meiotic spindle assembly confirms the recently investigated involvement of ALADIN in mitosis and emphasises an interaction with PGRMC2 which is a regulator of cell cycle. By identification of a novel interaction partner of ALADIN we provide novel aspects for future research of the function of ALADIN during cell cycle and for new insights into the pathogenesis of triple A syndrome.', u'/content/early/2016/07/19/064766', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Technische Universit\xe4t Dresden']]
[u'Divisive suppression explains high-precision firing and contrast adaptation in retinal ganglion cells', ['Yuwei Cui', 'Yanbin V. Wang', 'Silvia J. H. Park', 'Jonathan B. Demb', 'Daniel A. Butts'], u'July 19, 2016.', u"Visual processing depends on specific computations implemented by complex neural circuits. Here, we present a circuit-inspired model of retinal ganglion cell computation, targeted to explain their temporal dynamics and adaptation to contrast. To localize the sources of such processing, we used recordings at the levels of synaptic input and spiking output in the in vitro mouse retina. We found that an ON-Alpha ganglion cell's excitatory synaptic inputs were described by a divisive interaction between excitation and delayed suppression, which explained nonlinear processing already present in ganglion cell inputs. Ganglion cell output was further shaped by spike generation mechanisms. The full model accurately predicted spike responses with unprecedented millisecond precision, and accurately described contrast adaption of the spike train. These results demonstrate how circuit and cell-intrinsic mechanisms interact for ganglion cell function and, more generally, illustrate the power of circuit-inspired modeling of sensory processing.", u'/content/early/2016/07/19/064592', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Maryland;', u'Yale University']]
[u'The population tracking model: A simple, scalable statistical model for neural population data', ["Cian O'Donnell", 'J Tiago Goncalves', 'Nick Whiteley', 'Carlos Portera-Cailliau', 'Terrence J Sejnowski'], u'July 19, 2016.', u'Our understanding of neural population coding has been limited by a lack of analysis methods to characterize spiking data from large populations. The biggest challenge comes from the fact that the number of possible network activity patterns scales exponentially with the number of neurons recorded (2^Neurons). Here we introduce a new statistical method for characterizing neural population activity that requires semi-independent fitting of only as many parameters as the square of the number of neurons, so requiring drastically smaller data sets and minimal computation time. The model works by matching the population rate (the number of neurons synchronously active) and the probability that each individual neuron fires given the population rate. We found that this model can accurately fit synthetic data from up to 1000 neurons. We also found that the model could rapidly decode visual stimuli from neural population data from macaque primary visual cortex, ~65 ms after stimulus onset. Finally, we used the model to estimate the entropy of neural population activity in developing mouse somatosensory cortex and surprisingly found that it first increases, then decreases during development. This statistical model opens new options for interrogating neural population data, and can bolster the use of modern large-scale in vivo Ca2+ and voltage imaging tools.', u'/content/early/2016/07/19/064717', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Bristol;', u'Salk Institute for Biological Studies;', u'University of California, Los Angeles']]
[u'CLIMB (the Cloud Infrastructure for Microbial Bioinformatics): an online resource for the medical microbiology community', ['Thomas Richard Connor', 'Nicholas James Loman', 'Simon Thompson', 'Andy Smith', 'Joel Southgate', 'Radoslaw Poplawski', 'Matthew J Bull', 'Emily Richardson', 'Matthew Ismail', 'Simon Elwood-Thompson', 'Christine Kitchen', 'Martyn Guest', 'Marius Bakke', 'Sam K Sheppard', 'Mark J Pallen'], u'July 19, 2016.', u'The increasing availability and decreasing cost of high-throughput sequencing has transformed academic medical microbiology, delivering an explosion in available genomes while also driving advances in bioinformatics. However, many microbiologists are unable to exploit the resulting large genomics datasets because they do not have access to relevant computational resources and to an appropriate bioinformatics infrastructure. Here, we present the Cloud Infrastructure for Microbial Bioinformatics (CLIMB) facility, a shared computing infrastructure that has been designed from the ground up to provide an environment where microbiologists can share and reuse methods and data.', u'/content/early/2016/07/19/064451', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Cardiff University;', u'University of Birmingham;', u'University of Warwick;', u'Swansea University;', u'University of Bath']]
[u'Relaxed selection during a recent human expansion', ['Stephan Peischl', 'Isabelle Dupanloup', 'Adrien Foucal', 'Michele Jomphe', 'Vanessa Bruat', 'Jean-Cristophe Grenier', 'Alexandre Gouy', 'Elias Gbeha', 'Lars Bosshard', 'Elodie Hip-Ki', 'Mawusse Agbessi', 'Alan Hodgkinson', 'Helene Vezina', 'Philip Awadalla', 'Laurent Excoffier'], u'July 19, 2016.', u'Humans have colonized the planet through a series of range expansions, which deeply impacted genetic diversity in newly settled areas and potentially increased the frequency of deleterious mutations on expanding wave fronts. To test this prediction, we studied the genomic diversity of French Canadians who colonized Quebec in the 17th century. We used historical information and records from ~4000 ascending genealogies to select individuals whose ancestors lived mostly on the colonizing wave front and individuals whose ancestors remained in the core of the settlement. Comparison of exomic diversity reveals that i) both new and low frequency variants are significantly more deleterious in front than in core individuals, ii) equally deleterious mutations are at higher frequencies in front individuals, and iii) front individuals are two times more likely to be homozygous for rare very deleterious mutations present in Europeans. These differences have emerged in the past 6-9 generations and cannot be explained by differential inbreeding, but are consistent with relaxed selection on the wave front. Modeling the evolution of rare variants allowed us to estimate their associated selection coefficients as well as front and core effective sizes. Even though range expansions had a limited impact on the overall fitness of French Canadians, they could explain the higher prevalence of recessive genetic diseases in recently settled regions. Since we show that modern human populations are experiencing differential strength of purifying selection, similar processes might have happened throughout human history, contributing to a higher mutation load in populations that have undergone spatial expansions.', u'/content/early/2016/07/19/064691', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Berne;', u'University of Quebec at Chicoutimi;', u'University of Montreal;', u"King's College London;", u'University of Bern']]
