[u'Structure in the variability of the basic reproductive number (R0) for Zika epidemics in the Pacific islands', ['Clara Champagne', 'David G Salthouse', 'Richard Paul', 'Van-Mai Cao-Lormeau', 'Benjamin Roche', 'Bernard Cazelles'], u'July 20, 2016.', u'Before the outbreak that reached the Americas in 2015, Zika virus (ZIKV) circulated in Asia and\nthe Pacific: these past epidemics can be highly informative on the key parameters driving virus transmission, such as the basic reproduction number (R0). We compare two compartmental models with different mosquito representations, using surveillance and seroprevalence data for several ZIKV outbreaks in Pacific islands (Yap, Micronesia 2007, Tahiti and Moorea, French Polynesia 2013-2014, New Caledonia 2014). Models are estimated in a stochastic framework with state-of-the-art Bayesian techniques. R0 for the Pacific ZIKV epidemics is estimated between 1.5 and 4.1, the smallest islands displaying higher and more variable values. This relatively low range of R0 suggests that intervention strategies developed for other flaviviruses should enable as, if not more effective control of ZIKV. Our study also highlights the importance of seroprevalence data for precise quantitative analysis of pathogen propagation, to design prevention and control strategies.', u'/content/early/2016/07/20/064949', [], [u'IBENS, CREST;', u'IBENS;', u'Institut Pasteur, CNRS;', u'Institut Louis Malard&eacute;', u'UPMC/IRD;', u'IBENS, UPMC/IRD']]
[u'On phylogenetic branch lengths distribution and the late acquistion of mitochondria.', ['Alexandros A. Pittis', 'Toni Gabaldon'], u'July 20, 2016.', u'In a recent article, Martin et. al. [1] criticize several methodological aspects of our recent study on the timing of the acquisition of mitochondria [2]. Here we show that our results are independent of the model-based partitioning of the data. In addition, we assess the robustness of our inferences by analyzing data from Martin et. al.', u'/content/early/2016/07/20/064873', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'CRG']]
[u'A cascade of destabilizations: combining Wolbachia and Allee effects to eradicate insect pests', ['Julie C Blackwood', 'Roger Vargas', 'Xavier Fauvergue'], u'July 20, 2016.', u'1. The management of insect pests has long been dominated by the use chemical insecticides, with the aim of instantaneously killing enough individuals to limit their damage. To minimize unwanted consequences to the environment, some more recent novel approaches propose biological controls that take advantage of intrinsic demographic processes to eliminate pest populations.\n2. We address the feasibility of a novel pest management strategy based on the integration of Wolbachia-induced cytoplasmic incompatibility and the enhancement of a pre-existing Allee effect via mating disruption.\n3. A stochastic population model is developed that accounts for Wolbachia-induced cytoplasmic incompatibilities in addition to an Allee effect that arises from mating failures at low population density. Simulations were run with two objectives: quantifying how cytoplasmic incompatibility and the Allee effect interact to drive insect pest populations toward extinction, and delineating a strategy based on the introduction of Wolbachia-infected insects into a population where a mate-finding Allee effect is enhanced by mating disruption.\n4. Our modeling results demonstrate that Wolbachia-induced cytoplasmic incompatibility and the Allee effect act independently from one an other; the Allee effect does not modify the Wolbachia-invasion threshold, and cytoplasmic incompatibility has only a marginal effect on the Allee threshold. Nonetheless, when induced in concert, the two processes can drive even large populations to extinction. Importantly, simulations with successive intro- ductions of two incompatible Wolbachia strains into a population where an Allee effect is enhanced by a realistic application of mating disruption suggest that even large pest populations could be driven to extinction.\n5. Our study provides novel and tangible perspectives for the use of cytoplasmic incompatibility and the Allee effect to eradicate insect pests. More generally, it points on the importance of transient dynamics, and the relevance of manipulating a cascade of destabilizatons for pest management.', u'/content/early/2016/07/20/064774', [u'Ecology'], [u'Department of Mathematics and Statistics, Williams College, Williamstown, MA 01267, USA;', u'Department of Mathematics and Statistics, Williams College, Williamstown, USA;', u'ISA, UMR INRA CNRS Universite Nice Sophia Antipolis, France']]
[u'The evolutionary origin of bilaterian smooth and striated myocytes', ['Thibaut Brunet', 'Antje H. L. Fischer', 'Patrick R. H. Steinmetz', 'Antonella Lauri', 'Paola Bertucci', 'Detlev Arendt'], u'July 20, 2016.', u'The dichotomy between smooth and striated myocytes is fundamental for bilaterian musculature, but its evolutionary origin remains unsolved.  Given their absence in Drosophila and Caenorhabditis, smooth muscles have so far been considered a vertebrate innovation. Here, we characterize expression profile, ultrastructure, contractility and innervation of the musculature in the marine annelid Platynereis dumerilii and identify smooth muscles around the midgut, hindgut and heart that resemble their vertebrate counterparts in molecular fingerprint, contraction speed, and nervous control. Our data suggest that both visceral smooth and somatic striated myocytes were present in the protostome-deuterostome ancestor, and that smooth myocytes later co-opted the striated contractile module repeatedly - for example in vertebrate heart evolution. During these smooth-to-striated myocyte conversions the core regulatory complex of transcription factors conveying myocyte identity remained unchanged, reflecting a general principle in cell type evolution.', u'/content/early/2016/07/20/064881', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'European Molecular Biology Laboratory']]
[u'Protection against maternal infection-associated fetal growth restriction - proof-of-concept with a microbial-derived immunomodulator OM85: safety and efficacy data', ['Naomi Scott', 'Jeff Lauzon-Joset', 'Anya Jones', 'Kyle Mincham', 'Niamh Troy', 'Jonatan Leffler', 'Michael Serralha', 'Susan Prescott', 'Sarah Robertson', 'Christian Pasquali', 'Anthony Bosco', 'Patrick Holt', 'Deborah Strickland'], u'July 20, 2016.', u'Infection-associated inflammatory stress during pregnancy is the most common\ncause of fetal growth restriction and/or miscarriage. Treatment strategies for\nprotection of at-risk mothers are limited to a narrow range of vaccines, which do\nnot cover the bulk of the common pathogens most frequently encountered.\nEmploying mouse models, we demonstrate that oral treatment during pregnancy\nwith a microbial-derived immunomodulator (OM85TM), currently used clinically for\nattenuation of infection-associated airway inflammatory symptoms in infantsadults,\nmarkedly reduces risk for fetal loss/growth restriction resulting from\nmaternal challenge with bacterial LPS or influenza. Focusing on LPS exposure,\nwe demonstrate that the key molecular indices of maternal inflammatory stress,\nnotably high levels of RANTES, MIP-1a, CCL2, IL-8 and G-CSF in gestational\ntissues/serum, are abrogated by OM85 pretreatment. Systems-level analyses\nconducted in parallel employing RNASeq revealed that OM85 pretreatment\nselectively tunes LPS-induced activation in maternal gestational tissues for\nattenuated expression of TNF-, IL1-, and IFNg-driven that drive production of\nthese pro-inflammatory cytokines, without constraining Type1-IFN-associated\nnetworks central to first-line anti-microbial defense. This study suggests that\nbroad-spectrum protection-of-pregnancy against infection-associated\ninflammatory stress, without compromising capacity for efficient pathogen\neradication, represents an achievable therapeutic goal.', u'/content/early/2016/07/20/064857', [u'Immunology'], [u'Telethon Kids Institute, The University of Western Australia, Perth, Australia;', u'Robinson Research Institute, The University of;', u'OM Pharma, SA Geneva']]
[u'Candidate gene scan for Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms involved in the determination of normal variability in human craniofacial morphology', ['Mark Barash', 'Philipp E. Bayer', 'Angela van Daal'], u'July 20, 2016.', u"Background Despite intensive research on genetics of the craniofacial morphology using animal models and human craniofacial syndromes, the genetic variation that underpins normal human facial appearance is still largely unknown. Recent development of novel digital methods for capturing the complexity of craniofacial morphology in conjunction with high-throughput genotyping methods, show great promise for unravelling the genetic basis of such a complex trait. Better understanding of the craniofacial genetics would allow development of novel tools for medical diagnostics of craniofacial syndromes as well as prediction of the facial appearance for forensic and intelligence use. Results We selected 1,319 candidate craniofacial genetic markers and previously described pigmentation polymorphisms as well as additional 4,732 markers in linkage disequilibrium (LD) with candidate markers, which were subsequently genotyped using massively parallel sequencing. We manually allocated 32 craniofacial landmarks and calculated 92 craniofacial distances from 3-Dimentional (3D) facial scans and made six direct cranial measurements of 587 volunteers. We also recorded information on two facial traits (eyelid and ear lobe) and calculated ten principal components, based on all the craniofacial measurements. Genetic association between 104 craniofacial phenotypes and 3,073 genetic markers were tested. Following application of a genomic wide association study (GWAS) p-value threshold of 5.00E-08, 45 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in 27 genes and 13 intergenic regions were associated with 11 craniofacial traits. Following subsequent application of an over-conservative Bonferroni correction, associations were observed between 8 craniofacial traits and 12 SNPs located in 12 genes and intergenic regions. We report all the significant associations that reached the 5.00E-08 p-value threshold as we believe this threshold is conservative enough to avoid or at least significantly reduce potentially spurious associations. Majority of associations were in novel genes, while one SNP was in the PAX3 gene that was previously linked to normal variation in craniofacial morphology. Another two polymorphisms were found in the COL11A1 gene, which was previously linked to normal variation in craniofacial morphology, including confirmation of one of the associated SNPs. \nAssociations of the pigmentation traits in this study have fully confirmed previously published results. Conclusions This study identified the greatest number of genetic variants associated with normal variation of craniofacial morphology to date by using a candidate gene approach. These results enhance our understanding of the genetics that determines normal variation in craniofacial morphology and will also be of particular value in the forensic field to allow prediction of a person's appearance from a DNA sample.", u'/content/early/2016/07/20/060814', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Technology Sydney;', u'The University of Queensland;', u'Bond University']]
[u'Functional and non-functional classes of peptides produced by long non-coding RNAs.', ['Jorge Ruiz-Orera', 'Pol Verdaguer-Grau', 'Jose Luis Villanueva-Canas', 'Xavier Messeguer', 'M Mar Alba'], u'July 20, 2016.', u'Cells express thousands of transcripts that show weak coding potential. Known as long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs), they typically contain short open reading frames (ORFs) having no homology with known proteins. Recent studies have reported that a significant proportion of lncRNAs are translated, challenging the view that they are essentially non-coding. These results are based on the selective sequencing of ribosome-protected fragments, or ribosome profiling. The present study used ribosome profiling data from eight mouse tissues and cell types, combined with ~330,000 synonymous and non-synonymous single nucleotide variants, to dissect the biological implications of lncRNA translation. Using the three-nucleotide read periodicity that characterizes actively translated regions, we found that about 23% of the transcribed lncRNAs was translated (1,365 out of 6,390). About one fourth of the translated sequences (350 lncRNAs) showed conservation in humans; this is likely to produce functional micropeptides, including the recently discovered myoregulin. For other lncRNAs, the ORF codon usage bias distinguishes between two classes. The first has significant coding scores and contains functional proteins which are not conserved in humans. The second large class, comprising >500 lncRNAs, produces proteins that show no significant purifying selection signatures. We showed that the neutral translation of these lncRNAs depends on the transcript expression level and the chance occurrence of ORFs with a favorable codon composition. This provides the first evidence to data that many lncRNAs produce non-functional proteins.', u'/content/early/2016/07/20/064915', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Evolutionary Genomics Group, Research Programme on Biomedical Informatics, Hospital del Mar Research;', u'Llenguatges i Sistemes Inform??tics, Universitat Polit??cnica de Catalunya, Barcelona, Spain']]
[u'Comparison of aggregation methods for multiphenotype exomic variant prioritization', ['Alejandro Sifrim', 'Dusan Popovic', 'Joris R. Vermeesch', 'Jan Aerts', 'Bart De Moor', 'Yves Moreau'], u'July 20, 2016.', u'The identification of disease-causing genes in Mendelian disorders has been facilitated by the detection of rare disease-causing variation through exome sequencing experiments. These studies rely on population databases to filter a majority of the putatively neutral variation in the genome and additional filtering steps using either cohorts of diseased individuals or familial information to narrow down the list of candidate variants. Recently, new computational methods have been proposed to prioritize variants by scoring them not only based on their potential impact on protein function but also on their relevance given the available information on the disease under study. Usually these diseases comprise several phenotypic presentations, which are separately prioritized and then aggregated into a global score. In this study we compare several simple (e.g. maximum and mean score) and more complex aggregation methods (e.g. order statistics, parametric modeling) in order to obtain the best possible prioritization performance. We show that all methods perform reasonably well (median rank below 20 out of more than 8000 variants) and that the selection of an optimal aggregation method depends strongly on the fraction of uninformative phenotypes. Finally, we propose guidelines as to how to select an appropriate aggregation method based on knowledge of the phenotype under study.', u'/content/early/2016/07/20/064899', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'KU Leuven']]
[u'Altered hippocampal interneuron activity precedes ictal onset', ['Mitra L Miri', 'Martin Vinck', 'Rima Pant', 'Jessica A Cardin'], u'July 20, 2016.', u'Although failure of GABAergic inhibition is a commonly hypothesized mechanism underlying seizure disorders, the series of events that precipitate a rapid shift from healthy to ictal activity remain unclear.  Furthermore, the diversity of inhibitory interneuron populations poses a challenge for understanding local circuit interactions during seizure initiation.  Using a combined optogenetic and electrophysiological approach, we examined the activity of two identified hippocampal interneuron classes during seizure induction in vivo.  We identified cell type-specific differences in preictal firing patterns and input sensitivity of parvalbumin- and somatostatin-expressing interneurons.  Surprisingly, the impact of both sources of inhibition remained intact throughout the preictal period and into the early ictal phase. Our findings suggest that the onset of ictal activity is not due to a failure of inhibition, but is instead associated with a decoupling of inhibitory cells from their normal relationship with the local hippocampal network.', u'/content/early/2016/07/20/064956', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Yale University']]
[u'CRISPR-Cas9 mediated mutagenesis of a DMR6 ortholog in tomato confers broad-spectrum disease resistance', ['Daniela Paula de Toledo Thomazella', 'Quinton Brail', 'Douglas Dahlbeck', 'Brian J Staskawicz'], u'July 20, 2016.', u"Pathogenic microbes are responsible for severe production losses in crops worldwide. The use of disease resistant crop varieties can be a sustainable approach to meet the food demand of the world's growing population. However, classical plant breeding is usually laborious and time-consuming, thus hampering efficient improvement of many crops. With the advent of genome editing technologies, in particular the CRISPR/Cas9 (clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats/Cas9) system, we are now able to introduce improved crop traits in a rapid and efficient manner. In this work, we genome edited durable disease resistance in tomato by modifying a specific gene associated with disease resistance. Recently, it was demonstrated that a mutation of a single gene called DMR6 (downy mildew resistance 6) confers resistance to several pathogens in Arabidopsis thaliana. This gene is specifically up-regulated during pathogen infection, and mutations in the dmr6 gene results in increased salicylic acid levels. The tomato SlDMR6-1 orthologue Solyc03g080190.2 is also up-regulated during infection by Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato and Phytophthora capsici. Using the CRISPR/Cas-9 system, we generated tomato plants with small deletions in the SlDMR6-1 gene that result in frameshift and premature truncation of the protein. Remarkably, these mutants do not have significant detrimental effects in terms of growth and development under greenhouse conditions and show disease resistance against different pathogens, including P. syringae, P. capsici and Xanthomonas spp.", u'/content/early/2016/07/20/064824', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Department of Plant and Microbial Biology, University of California, Berkeley, Berkeley CA 94720']]
