[u'Accelerated simulation of evolutionary trajectories in origin-fixation models', ['Ashley I Teufel', 'Claus O Wilke'], u'November 14, 2016.', u'We present an accelerated algorithm to forward-simulate origin--fixation models. Our algorithm requires on average only about two fitness evaluations per fixed mutation, whereas traditional algorithms require, per one fixed mutation, a number of fitness evaluations on the order of the effective population size Ne. Our accelerated algorithm yields the exact same steady state as the original algorithm but produces a different order of fixed mutations. By comparing several relevant evolutionary metrics, such as the distribution of fixed selection coefficients and the probability of reversion, we find that the two algorithms behave equivalently in many respects. However, the accelerated algorithm yields less variance in fixed selection coefficients. Notably, we are able to recover the expected amount of variance by rescaling population size, and we find a linear relationship between the rescaled population size and the population size used by the original algorithm. Considering the widespread usage of origin--fixation simulations across many areas of evolutionary biology, we introduce our accelerated algorithm as a useful tool for increasing the computational complexity of fitness functions without sacrificing much in terms of accuracy of the evolutionary simulation.', u'/content/early/2016/11/14/087700', [], [u'The University of Texas at Austin']]
[u'Automatic Tracing of Ultra-Volume of Neuronal Images', ['Hanchuan Peng', 'Zhi Zhou', 'Erik Meijering', 'Ting Zhao', 'Giorgio Ascoli', 'Michael Hawrylycz'], u'November 14, 2016.', u"Despite substantial advancement in the automatic tracing of neurons' morphology in recent years, it is challenging to apply the existing algorithms to very large image datasets containing billions or more voxels. We introduce UltraTracer, a solution designed to extend any base neuron-tracing algorithm to be able to trace virtually unlimited data volumes. We applied this approach to neuron-tracing algorithms with completely different design principles and tested on challenging human and mouse neuron datasets that have hundreds of billions of voxels. Results indicate that UltraTracer is scalable, accurate, and about 3 to 6 times more efficient compared to other state-of-the-art approaches.", u'/content/early/2016/11/14/087726', [], [u'Allen Institute for Brain Science;', u'Erasmus University Medical Center Rotterdam, Rotterdam, Netherlands.;', u'HHMI;', u'George Mason University;', u'Allen Institute']]
[u'A Bayesian approach to inferring chemical signal timing and amplitude in a temporal logic gate using the cell population distributional response', ['Ania-Ariadna Baetica', 'Thomas Anthony Catanach', 'Victoria Hsiao', 'Richard Murray', 'James Beck'], u'November 14, 2016.', u'Stochastic gene expression poses an important challenge for engineering robust behaviors in a heterogeneous cell population. Cells address this challenge by operating on distributions of cellular responses generated by noisy processes. Similarly, a previously published temporal logic gate considers the distribution of responses across a cell population under chemical inducer pulsing events. The design uses a system of two integrases to engineer an E. coli strain with four DNA states that records the temporal order of two chemical signal events. The heterogeneous cell population response was used to infer the timing and duration of the two chemical signals for a small set of events. Here we use the temporal logic gate system to address the problem of extracting information about chemical signal events. We use the heterogeneous cell population response to infer whether any event has occurred or not and also to infer its properties such as timing and amplitude.\n\nBayesian inference provides a natural framework to answer our questions about chemical signal occurrence, timing, and amplitude. We develop a probabilistic model that incorporates uncertainty in the how well our model captures the cell population and in how well a sample of measured cells represents the entire population. Using our probabilistic model and cell population measurements taken every five minutes on generated data, we ask how likely it was to observe the data for parameter values that describe square-shaped inducer pulses. We compare the likelihood functions associated with the probabilistic models for the event with the chemical signal pulses turned on versus turned off. Hence, we can determine whether an event of chemical induction of integrase expression has occurred or not.\n\nUsing Markov Chain Monte Carlo, we sample the posterior distribution of chemical pulse parameters to identify likely pulses that produce the data measurements. We implement this method and obtain accurate results for detecting chemical inducer pulse timing, length, and amplitude. We can detect and identify chemical inducer pulses as short as half an hour, as well as all pulse amplitudes that fall under biologically relevant conditions.', u'/content/early/2016/11/14/087379', [], [u'California Institute of Technology']]
[u'Problems with Estimating Anthesis Phenology Parameters in Zea mays: Consequences for Combining Ecophysiological Models with Genetics', ['Abhishes Lamsal', 'Stephen Welch', 'Jeffrey White', 'Kelly Thorp', 'Nora Bello'], u'November 14, 2016.', u'Ecophysiological crop models encode intra-species behaviors using constant parameters that are presumed to summarize genotypic properties. Accurate estimation of these parameters is crucial because much recent work has sought to link them to genotypes. The original goal of this study was to fit the anthesis date component of the CERES-Maize model to 5266 genetic lines grown at 11 site-years and genetically map the resulting parameter estimates. Although the resulting estimates had high predictive quality, numerous artifacts emerged during estimation. The first arose in situations where the model was unable to express the observed data for many lines, which ended up sharing the same parameter value.  In the second (2254 lines), the model reproduced the data but there were often many parameter sets that did so equally well (equifinality). These artifacts made genetic mapping impossible, thus, revealing cautionary insights regarding a major current paradigm for linking process based models to genetics.', u'/content/early/2016/11/14/087742', [], [u'Kansas State University;', u'USDA']]
[u'Modulation of Body Mass Composition using Vestibular Nerve Stimulation.', ['Paul D. McGeoch', 'Jason McKeown', 'Vilayanur S. Ramachandran'], u'November 14, 2016.', u'There is increasing evidence of a set-point for body weight in the brain, that is regulated by the hypothalamus. This system modifies feeding behavior and metabolic rate, to keep body fat within predetermined parameters. It is also known that animals subjected to chronic centrifugation show a reduction in body fat. Experiments with mutant mice found that this loss of fat appears to be mediated by a vestibulo-hypothalamic pathway. Vestibular nerve stimulation (VeNS), also known as galvanic vestibular stimulation, involves non-invasively stimulating the vestibular system by applying a small electrical current between two electrodes placed over the mastoid processes. We suggest that any means of repeatedly stimulating the otolith organs in humans would cause a reduction in total body fat, and that VeNS would be a useful technique to use in this regard. Below we provide pilot data to support this idea.', u'/content/early/2016/11/14/087692', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of California, San Diego;', u'UCSD']]
[u'Biased gene conversion drives codon usage in human and precludes selection on translation efficiency', ['Fanny Pouyet', 'Dominique Mouchiroud', 'Laurent Duret', 'Marie Semon'], u'November 14, 2016.', u'In humans, as in other mammals, synonymous codon usage (SCU) varies widely among genes. In particular, genes involved in cell differentiation or in proliferation display a distinct codon usage, suggesting that SCU is adaptively constrained to optimize translation efficiency in distinct cellular states. However, in mammals, SCU is  known to correlate with large-scale fluctuations of GC-content along chromosomes, caused by meiotic recombination, via the non-adaptive process of GC-biased gene conversion (gBGC). To disentangle and to quantify the different factors driving SCU in humans, we analyzed the relationships between functional categories, base composition, recombination, and gene expression. We first demonstrate that SCU is predominantly driven by large-scale variation in GC-content and is not linked to constraints on tRNA abundance, which excludes an effect of translational selection. In agreement with the gBGC model, we show that differences in SCU among functional categories are explained by variation in intragenic recombination rate, which, in turn, is strongly negatively correlated to gene expression levels during meiosis. Our results indicate that variation in SCU among functional categories (including variation associated to differentiation or proliferation)  result from differences in levels of meiotic transcription, which interferes with the formation of crossovers and thereby affects gBGC intensity within genes. Overall, the gBGC model explains 81.3% of the variance in SCU among genes. We argue that the strong heterogeneity of SCU induced by gBGC in mammalian genomes precludes any optimization of the tRNA pool to the demand in codon usage.', u'/content/early/2016/11/14/086447', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'LBBE, UMR 5558, CNRS, Universite de Lyon;', u'IGFL, ENS Lyon, Universite de  Lyon']]
[u'Microbiome engineers: Grazers, browsers, and the phytobiome stampede', ['Karen A Garrett', 'Erin E Frank', 'Shauna P Dendy', 'John F Leslie', 'Amgad Saleh'], u'November 14, 2016.', u'We define microbiome engineers as species that modify the microbiome associated with other host species via changes in the physical environment, potentially including the creation of dispersal networks for microbiome consortia across multiple hosts.  Grazers such as bison are indirect plant microbiome engineers through alteration of the structure of plant communities in grasslands and forests.  They also can directly engineer plant microbiomes if they distribute microbial consortia.  Direct engineering may include simpler examples such as the role of truffle-eating animals in structuring forest mycorrhizal communities, as well as more complex roles in structuring the evolution of bacterial, fungal, and viral microbiome networks.  Grazers and browsers may have important historic and current roles in engineering microbiomes by (a) stabilizing and homogenizing microbiomes in their preferred plant species, and (b) selecting for microbiomes in their preferred plant species that are differentiated from microbiomes in plant species they rarely consume.', u'/content/early/2016/11/14/087494', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Florida;', u'Kansas State University;', u'King Saud University']]
[u'Deciphering the genic basis of environmental adaptations by simultaneous forward and reverse genetics in Saccharomyces cerevisiae', ['Jianzhi Zhang', 'Calum Maclean', 'Brian Metzger', 'Jian-Rong Yang', 'Wei-Chin Ho', 'Bryan Moyers'], u'November 14, 2016.', u"The budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae is the best studied eukaryote in molecular and cell biology, but its utility for understanding the genetic basis of natural phenotypic variation is limited by the inefficiency of association mapping owing to strong and complex population structure.  To facilitate association mapping, we analyzed 190 high-quality genomes of diverse strains, including 85 newly sequenced ones, to uncover yeast's population structure that varies substantially among genomic regions.  We identified 181 yeast genes that are absent from the reference genome and demonstrated their expression and role in important functions such as drug resistance.  We then simultaneously measured the growth rates of over 4500 lab strains each deficient of a nonessential gene and 81 natural strains across multiple environments using unique DNA barcode present in each strain.  We combined the genome-wide reverse genetic information with genome-wide association analysis to determine potential genomic regions of importance to environmental adaptations, and for a subset experimentally validated their role by reciprocal hemizygosity tests.  The resources provided permit efficient and reliable association mapping in yeast and significantly enhances its value as a model for understanding the genetic mechanisms of phenotypic polymorphism and evolution.", u'/content/early/2016/11/14/087510', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Michigan']]
[u'An overview on the DNA nucleotide compositions across kingdoms', ['Yabin Guo'], u'November 14, 2016.', u'The DNA nucleotide compositions vary among species. This fascinating phenomenon has been studied for decades with some interesting questions remaining unclear. Recent years, thousands of genomes have been sequenced, but general evaluations on the nucleotide compositions across different phylogenetic groups are still absent. In this letter, I analyzed 371 genomes from different kingdoms and provided an overview on DNA nucleotide compositions. A number of important topics were discussed, including GC content, DNA strand symmetricity, CDS purine content, codon usage, thermophilicity in prokaryotes and non-coding RNA genes. I also gave explanations to two long debated questions: 1) both genome GC content and CDS purine content are correlated with the thermophilicity in archaea, but not in bacteria; 2) the purine rich pattern of CDS in most species is mainly a consequence of coding requirement, but not mRNA interaction dynamics. This study provides valuable information and ideas for future investigations in this field.', u'/content/early/2016/11/14/087569', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Medical Research Center, Sun Yat-Sen Memorial Hospital, Sun Yat-Sen University']]
[u'Cobalt enrichment in anaerobic microbial cocultures revealed by synchrotron X-ray fluorescence imaging', ['Jennifer B Glass', 'Si Chen', 'Katherine S Dawson', 'Damian R Horton', 'Stefan Vogt', 'Ellery D Ingall', 'Benjamin S Twining', 'Victoria J Orphan'], u'November 14, 2016.', u'This study examined iron, cobalt, nickel, copper, and zinc content of a model sulfate-reducing bacterium and methanogenic archaeon in mono- vs. coculture. Inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry and synchrotron x-ray fluorescence microscopy were used to compare elemental content of bulk vs. single cells. Cocultures contained more cellular cobalt than monocultures as well as distinct nanoparticulate zinc- and cobalt/copper- sulfides. This study provides the first evidence that microbes have different metal quotas in mono- vs. coculture, and that cocultures grown in micromolar metal concentrations precipitate different metal sulfide minerals than previous studies of sulfate-reducing bacteria grown at millimolar metal concentrations.', u'/content/early/2016/11/14/087585', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Georgia Institute of Technology;', u'Argonne National Laboratory;', u'California Institute of Technology;', u'Bigelow Laboratory for Ocean Sciences']]
[u'MARS: Motif Assessment and Ranking Suite for transcription factor binding motifs', ['Caleb Kipkurui Kibet', 'Philip Machanick'], u'November 14, 2016.', u'We describe MARS (Motif Assessment and Ranking Suite), a web-based suite of tools used to evaluate and rank PWM-based motifs. The increased number of learned motif models that are spread across databases and in different PWM formats, leading to a choice dilemma among the users, is our motivation. This increase has been driven by the difficulty of modelling transcription factor binding sites and the advance in high-throughput sequencing technologies at a continually reducing cost. Therefore, several experimental techniques have been developed resulting in diverse motif-finding algorithms and databases. We collate a wide variety of available motifs into a benchmark database, including the corresponding experimental ChIP-seq and PBM data obtained from ENCODE and UniPROBE databases, respectively. The implemented tools include: a data-independent consistency-based motif assessment and ranking (CB-MAR), which is based on the idea that \u2018correct motifs\u2019 are more similar to each other while incorrect motifs will differ from each other; and a scoring and classification-based algorithms, which rank binding models by their ability to discriminate sequences known to contain binding sites from those without. The CB-MAR and scoring techniques have a 0.86 and 0.73 median rank correlation using ChIP-seq and PBM respectively. Best motifs selected by CB-MAR achieve a mean AUC of 0.75, comparable to those ranked by held out data at 0.76 -- this is based on ChIP-seq motif discovery using five algorithms on 110 transcription factors. We have demonstrated the benefit of this web server in motif choice and ranking, as well as in motif discovery. It can be accessed at http://www.bioinf.ict.ru.ac.za/.', u'/content/early/2016/11/14/065615', [], [u'Rhodes University']]
[u'Tunable Extracellular Self-Assembly of Multi-Protein Conjugates from Bacillus subtilis', ['Charlie Gilbert', 'Mark Howarth', 'Colin Harwood', 'Tom Ellis'], u'November 14, 2016.', u'The ability to stably and specifically conjugate recombinant proteins to one another is a powerful in vitro technique for engineering multifunctional enzymes, protein therapeutics and novel biological materials. However, for many applications spontaneous in vivo protein conjugation would be preferable to in vitro methods. Exploiting the recently described SpyTag-SpyCatcher system, we describe here how enzymes and structural proteins can be genetically-encoded to covalently conjugate in culture media following programmable secretion by Bacillus subtilis. Using this novel approach, we demonstrate how self-conjugation of a secreted industrial enzyme, XynA, dramatically increases its resilience to boiling and we show that cellular consortia can be engineered to self-assemble functional multi-protein complexes with tunable composition. This genetically-encoded modular system provides a new, flexible strategy for protein conjugation harnessing the substantial advantages of extracellular self-assembly.', u'/content/early/2016/11/14/087593', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'Imperial College London;', u'Oxford University;', u'Newcastle University']]
[u'On the (im)possibility to reconstruct plasmids from whole genome short-read sequencing data', ['Sergio Arredondo-Alonso', 'Willem van Schaik', 'Rob J Willems', 'Anita C Schurch'], u'November 14, 2016.', u'Plasmids are autonomous extra-chromosomal elements in bacterial cells that can carry genes that are\nimportant for bacterial survival. There is considerable interest in the automated reconstruction of plasmid sequences from short-read whole genome sequence (WGS) data. To benchmark algorithms for\nautomated plasmid sequence reconstruction, we selected 42 publicly available complete bacterial genome\nsequences with associated sequencing reads from 12 genera, containing 148 plasmids. We predicted\nplasmids from WGS with four different programs (PlasmidSPAdes, Recycler, cBar and PlasmidFinder)\nand compared the outcome to the reference sequences. Recall and precision were calculated to measure\nthe completeness and accuracy of each prediction.\nPlasmidSPAdes reconstructs plasmids based on coverage differences in the assembly graph. It reconstructed most of the reference plasmids (recall = 0.82) with approximately a quarter of the predicted sequences corresponding to false positives (precision = 0.76). A total of 83.1 % of the reconstructions from genomes with multiple plasmids were merged and manual steps were necessary to separate individual plasmid sequences. Recycler searches the assembly graph for sub-graphs corresponding to circular sequences. It correctly predicted small plasmids but failed with long plasmids (recall = 0.12, precision = 0.28). cBar, which applies pentamer frequency composition analysis to detect plasmid-derived contigs, showed an overall recall and precision of 0.77 and 0.63. However, cBar only categorizes contigs as plasmid-derived and does not bin the different plasmids correctly within a\nbacterial isolate. PlasmidFinder, which searches for matches in a replicon database, had the highest\nprecision (1.0) but was restricted by the contents of its database and the contig length obtained from de\nnovo assembly (recall = 0.33). Based on this analysis we conclude that without long read information,\nplasmid reconstruction from WGS remains challenging and error-prone.', u'/content/early/2016/11/14/086744', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University Medical Center Utrecht - Department of Medical Microbiology']]
[u'Efficient repositioning of approved drugs as anti-HIV agents using Anti-HIV-Predictor', ['Shao-Xing Dai', 'Huan Chen', 'Wen-Xing Li', 'Yi-Cheng Guo', 'Jia-Qian Liu', 'Jun-Juan Zheng', 'Qian Wang', 'Hui-Juan Li', 'Bi-Wen Chen', 'Yue-Dong Gao', 'Gong-Hua Li', 'Yong-Tang Zheng', 'Jing-Fei Huang'], u'November 14, 2016.', u"Treatment of AIDS still faces multiple challenges such as drug resistance and HIV eradication. Development of new, effective and affordable drugs against HIV is urgently needed. In this study, we developed a world's first web server called Anti-HIV-Predictor (http://bsb.kiz.ac.cn:70/hivpre) for predicting anti-HIV activity of given compounds. The web server is rapid and accurate (accuracy >93% and AUC > 0.958), which enables us to screen tens of millions of compounds and discover new anti-HIV agents. We firstly applied the server to screen 1835 approved drugs for anti-HIV therapy. Then the predicted new anti-HIV compounds were experimentally evaluated. Finally, we repurposed 7 approved drugs (cetrorelix, dalbavancin, daunorubicin, doxorubicin, epirubicin, idarubicin and valrubicin) as new anti-HIV agents. Anti-HIV-Predictor and the 7 repurposed anti-HIV agents provided here demonstrate the efficacy of this strategy for discovery of new anti-HIV agents. This strategy and the server should significantly advance current anti-HIV research.", u'/content/early/2016/11/14/087445', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'State Key Laboratory of Genetic Resources and Evolution, Kunming Institute of Zoology, CAS;', u'Kunming Institute of Zoology, CAS;', u'Kunming Biological Diversity Regional Center of Instruments, Kunming Institute of Zoology,CAS']]
[u'Systematic integration of biomedical knowledge prioritizes drugs for repurposing', ['Daniel S Himmelstein', 'Antoine Lizee', 'Christine Hessler', 'Leo Brueggeman', 'Sabrina L Chen', 'Dexter Hadley', 'Ari Green', 'Pouya Khankhanian', 'Sergio E Baranzini'], u'November 14, 2016.', u'The ability to computationally predict whether a compound treats a disease would improve the economy and success rate of drug approval. This study describes the Rephetio Project to systematically model drug efficacy based on 755 existing treatments. First, we constructed Hetionet (https://neo4j.het.io), an integrative network encoding knowledge from millions of biomedical studies. Hetionet v1.0 consists of 47,031 nodes of 11 types and 2,250,197 relationships of 24 types. Data was integrated from 29 public resources to connect compounds, diseases, genes, anatomies, pathways, biological processes, molecular functions, cellular components, pharmacologic classes, side effects, and symptoms. Next, we identified network patterns that distinguish treatments from non-treatments. Then we predicted the probability of treatment for 209,168 compound\u2013disease pairs (http://het.io/repurpose). Our predictions validated in two external datasets, suggesting they will help prioritize drug repurposing candidates. This study was entirely open and received realtime feedback from 36 community members.', u'/content/early/2016/11/14/087619', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'UCSF;', u'University of California, San Francisco;', u'University of Iowa;', u'Johns Hopkins University;', u'University of Pennsylvania']]
[u'Metrics for comparing Neuronal Tree Shapes based on Persistent Homology', ['Yanjie Li', 'Giorgio Ascoli', 'Partha P Mitra', 'Yusu Wang'], u'November 14, 2016.', u'The geometrical tree structures of axonal and dendritic processes play important roles in determining the architecture and capabilities of neuronal circuitry. Morphological features based on this tree structure have played a central role in classifying neurons for over a century. Yet geometrical trees are not automatically adapted to the basic mathematical tool used widely in data analysis, namely vector spaces and linear algebra, since tree geometries cannot be naturally added and subtracted. Current methods for analysis reduce trees to feature vectors in more or less ad hoc ways. A more natural mathematical object suited to characterizing neuronal tree geometries, is a metric space, where only distances between objects need be defined. In recent years, there have been significant developments in the fields of computational topology and geometry that promise to be useful for the analysis of neuronal geometries. In this paper, we adapt these tools to the problem of characterizing and analyzing neuronal morphology.  \n\nAs more and more neuroanatomical data are made available through efforts such as NeuroMorpho.org and FlyCircuit.org, the need to develop computational tools to facilitate automatic knowledge discovery from such large datasets becomes more urgent. One fundamental question is how best to compare neuron structures, for instance to organize and classify large collection of neurons. We aim to develop a flexible yet powerful framework to support comparison and classification of large collection of neuron structures efficiently. Specifically we propose to use a topological persistence-based feature vectorization framework. Existing methods to vectorize a neuron (i.e, convert a neuron to a feature vector so as to support efficient comparison and/or searching) typically rely on statistics or summaries of morphometric information, such as the average or maximum local torque angle or partition asymmetry. These simple summaries have limited power in encoding global tree structures. Leveraging recent development in topological data analysis, we vectorize each neuron structure into a simple yet informative summary via the use of topological persistence. In particular, each type of information of interest can be represented as a descriptor function defined on the neuron tree, which is then mapped to a simple persistence-signature. Our framework can encode both local and global tree structure, as well as other information of interest (electrophysiological or dynamical measures), by considering multiple descriptor functions on the neuron. The resulting persistence-based signature is potentially more informative than simple statistical summaries (such as average/mean/max) of morphometric quantities -- Indeed, we show that using a certain descriptor function will give a persistence-based signature containing strictly more information than the classical Sholl analysis. At the same time, our framework retains the efficiency associated with treating neurons as points in a simple Euclidean feature space, which would be important for constructing efficient searching or indexing structures over them. We present preliminary experimental results to demonstrate the effectiveness of our persistence-based neuronal feature vectorization framework.', u'/content/early/2016/11/14/087551', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Ohio State University;', u'George Mason University;', u'Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory']]
[u'Unifying the two different classes of plant non-specific lipid-transfer proteins allergens classified in the WHO/IUIS allergen database through a motif with conserved sequence, structural and electrostatic features', ['Sandeep Chakraborty'], u'November 14, 2016.', u'The ubiquitously occuring non-specific lipid-transfer proteins (nsLTPs) in plants are implicated in key processes like biotic and abiotic stress, seed development and lipid transport. Additionally, they\nconstitute a panallergen multigene family present in both food and pollen. Presently there are 49 nsLTP entries in the WHO/IUIS allergen database (http://allergen.org/). Analysis of full-length allergens identified only two major classes (nsLTP1,n=32 and nsLTP2,n=2), although nsLTPs are classified into many other groups. nsLTP1 and nsLTP2 are differentiated by their sequences, molecular weights, pattern of the conserved disulphide bonds and volume of the hydrophobic cavity. The conserved R44 is present in all full length nsLTP1 allergens (only Par j 2 from Parietaria judaica has K44), while D43 is present in all but Par j 1/2 from P. judaica (residue numbering based on PDBid:2ALGA). Although, the importance of these residues is well-established in nsLTP1, the corresponding residues in nsLTP2 remain unknown. A structural motif comprising of two cysteines with a disulphide bond (C3-C50), R44 and D43 identified a congruent motif (C3/C35/R47/D42) in a nsLTP2 protein from rice (PDBid:1L6HA), using the CLASP\nmethodology. This also provides a quantitative method to assess the cross-reactivity potential of different\nproteins through congruence of an epitope and its neighbouring residues. Future work will involve\nobtaining the PDB structure of an nsLTP2 allergen and Par j 1/2 nsLTP1 sequences with a missing\nD43, determine whether nsLTP from other groups beside nsLTP1/2 are allergens, and determine nsLTP\nallergens from other plants (chickpea, walnut, etc.) based on a genome wide identification of genes with\nconserved allergen features.', u'/content/early/2016/11/14/087411', [u'Immunology'], [u'Celia Engineers']]
[u'T-SNE visualization of large-scale neural recordings.', ['George Dimitriadis', 'Joana Neto', 'Adam Kampff'], u'November 14, 2016.', u"Electrophysiology is entering the era of 'Big Data'. Multiple probes, each with hundreds to thousands of individual electrodes, are now capable of simultaneously recording from many brain regions. The major challenge confronting these new technologies is transforming the raw data into physiologically meaningful signals, i.e. single unit spikes. Sorting the spike events of individual neurons from a spatiotemporally dense sampling of the extracellular electric field is a problem that has attracted much attention (Rey 2015, Rossant 2016), but is still far from solved. Current methods still rely on human input and thus become unfeasible as the size of the data sets grow exponentially.\nHere we introduce the t-student stochastic neighbor embedding (t-sne) dimensionality reduction method (Van der Maaten 2008) as a visualization tool in the spike sorting process. T-sne embeds the n-dimensional extracellular spikes (n = number of features by which each spike is decomposed) into a low (usually two) dimensional space. We show that such embeddings, even starting from different feature spaces, form obvious clusters of spikes that can be easily visualized and manually delineated with a high degree of precision. We propose that these clusters represent single units and test this assertion by applying our algorithm on labeled data sets both from hybrid (Rossant 2016) and paired juxtacellular/extracellular recordings (Neto 2016). We have released a graphical user interface (gui) written in python as a tool for the manual clustering of the t-sne embedded spikes and as a tool for an informed overview and fast manual curation of results from other clustering algorithms. Furthermore, the generated visualizations offer evidence in favor of the use of probes with higher density and smaller electrodes. They also graphically demonstrate the diverse nature of the sorting problem when spikes are recorded with different methods and arise from regions with different background spiking statistics.", u'/content/early/2016/11/14/087395', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Sainsbury Wellcome Centre, UCL']]
[u'Statistical properties of simple random-effects models for genetic heritability', ['David Steinsaltz', 'Andrew Dahl', 'Kenneth W Wachter'], u'November 14, 2016.', u'Random-effects models are a popular tool for analysing total narrow-sense heritability for simple quantitative phenotypes on the basis of large-scale SNP data. Recently, there have been disputes over the validity of conclusions that may be drawn from such analysis. We derive some of the fundamental statistical properties of heritability estimates arising from these models, showing that the bias will generally be small. We show that that the score function may be manipulated into a form that facilitates intelligible interpretations of the results. We use this score function to explore the behavior of the model when certain key assumptions of the model are not satisfied -- shared environment, measurement error, and genetic effects that are confined to a small subset of sites -- as well as to elucidate the meaning of negative heritability estimates that may arise.\n\t\nThe variance and bias depend crucially on the variance of certain functionals of the singular values of the genotype matrix. A useful baseline is the singular value distribution associated with genotypes that are completely independent --- that is, with no linkage and no relatedness --- for a given number of individuals and sites. We calculate the corresponding  variance and bias for this setting.', u'/content/early/2016/11/14/087304', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Oxford;', u'Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics;', u'University of California, Berkeley, Department of Statistics']]
[u'Optical-flow analysis toolbox for characterization of spatiotemporal dynamics in mesoscale optical imaging of brain activity', ['Navvab Afrashteh', 'Samsoon Inayat', 'Mostafa Mohsenvand', 'Majid Mohajerani'], u'November 14, 2016.', u'Wide-field optical imaging techniques constitute powerful tools to sample and study mesoscale neuronal activity. The sampled data constitutes a sequence of image frames in which one can perceive the flow of brain activity starting and terminating at source and sink locations respectively. The most common data analyses include qualitative assessment to identify sources and sinks of activity as well as their trajectories. The quantitative analyses is mostly based on computing the temporal variation of the intensity of pixels while a few studies have also reported estimates of wave motion using optical-flow techniques from computer vision. A comprehensive toolbox for the quantitative analyses of mesoscale brain activity data however is still missing. We present a graphical-user-interface based Matlab\t\xae toolbox for investigating the spatiotemporal dynamics of mesoscale brain activity using optical-flow analyses. The toolbox includes the implementation of three optical-flow methods namely Horn-Schunck, Combined Local-Global, and Temporospatial algorithms for estimating velocity vector fields of perceived flow in mesoscale brain activity. From the velocity vector fields we determine the locations of sources and sinks as well as the trajectories and temporal velocities of activity flow. Using our toolbox, we compare the efficacy of the three optical-flow methods for determining spatiotemporal dynamics by using simulated data. We also demonstrate the application of optical-flow methods onto sensory-evoked calcium and voltage imaging data. Our results indicate that the combined local-global method we employ, yields results that correlate with the manual assessment. The automated approach permits rapid and effective quantification of mesoscale brain dynamics and may facilitate the study of brain function in response to new experiences or pathology.', u'/content/early/2016/11/14/087676', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Lethbridge;', u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology']]
[u'Nitrogen cost minimization is promoted by structural changes in the transcriptome of N deprived Prochlorococcus cells', ['Robert W Read', 'Paul M Berube', 'Steven J Biller', 'Iva Neveux', 'Andres Cubillos-Ruiz', 'Sallie W Chisholm', 'Joseph J Grzymski'], u'November 14, 2016.', u'Prochlorococcus is a globally abundant marine cyanobacterium with many adaptations that reduce cellular nutrient requirements, facilitating growth in its nutrient-poor environment. One such genomic adaptation is the preferential utilization of amino acids containing fewer N-atoms, which minimizes cellular nitrogen requirements. We predicted that transcriptional regulation might be used to further reduce cellular N budgets during transient N limitation. To explore this, we compared transcription start sites (TSSs) in Prochlorococcus MED4 under N-deprived and N-replete conditions. Of 64 genes with primary and internal TSSs in both conditions, N-deprived cells initiated transcription downstream of primary TSSs more frequently than N-replete cells. Additionally, 117 genes with only an internal TSS demonstrated increased internal transcription under N-deprivation. These shortened transcripts encode predicted proteins with ~5-20% less N content compared to full-length transcripts. We hypothesized that low translation rates, which afford greater control over protein abundances, would be beneficial to relatively slow-growing organisms like Prochlorococcus. Consistent with this idea, we found that Prochlorococcus exhibits greater usage of glycine-glycine motifs, which cause translational pausing, when compared to faster growing microbes. Our findings indicate that structural changes occur within the Prochlorococcus MED4 transcriptome during N-deprivation, potentially altering the size and structure of proteins expressed under nutrient limitation.', u'/content/early/2016/11/14/087643', [u'Genomics'], [u'Desert Research Institute;', u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology']]
[u'Kinetic modeling predicts a role for ribosome collisions at elongation stall sites in bacteria', ['Michael Ferrin', 'Arvind R. Subramaniam'], u'November 14, 2016.', u'Ribosomes can stall during translation elongation in bacteria and eukaryotes. To identify mechanisms by which ribosome stalling affects expression of the encoded protein, we develop an inverse approach that combines computational modeling with systematic perturbations of translation initiation rate, the number of stall sites, and the distance between stall sites on a reporter mRNA. By applying this approach to ribosome stalls caused by amino acid starvation in the bacterium Escherichia coli, we find that our measurements are quantitatively inconsistent with two widely used kinetic models for stalled ribosomes: ribosome traffic jams that block initiation, and abortive (premature) termination of stalled ribosomes. To account for this discrepancy, we consider a model in which collision from a trailing ribosome causes abortive termination of the stalled ribosome. This collision-stimulated abortive termination model provides a better fit to measured protein synthesis rates from our reporter library, and is consistent with observed ribosome densities near stall sites. Analysis of this model further predicts that ribosome collisions can selectively stimulate abortive termination of stalled ribosomes without fine-tuning of kinetic rate parameters. Thus ribosome collisions may serve as a robust timer for translational quality control pathways to recognize stalled ribosomes.', u'/content/early/2016/11/14/087668', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center']]
[u'Chromosome segregation drives division site selection in Streptococcus pneumoniae', ['Renske van Raaphorst', 'Morten Kjos', 'Jan-Willem Veening'], u'November 14, 2016.', u'Accurate spatial and temporal positioning of the tubulin-like protein FtsZ is key for proper bacterial cell division. Streptococcus pneumoniae (pneumococcus) is an oval-shaped, symmetrically dividing human pathogen lacking the canonical systems for division site control (nucleoid occlusion and the Min-system). Recently, the early division protein MapZ was identified and implicated in pneumococcal division site selection. We show that MapZ is important for proper division plane selection; thus the question remains what drives pneumococcal division site selection. By mapping the cell cycle in detail, we show that directly after replication both chromosomal origin regions localize to the future cell division sites, prior to FtsZ. Perturbing the longitudinal chromosomal organization by mutating the condensin SMC, by CRISPR/Cas9-mediated chromosome cutting or by poisoning DNA decatenation resulted in mistiming of MapZ and FtsZ positioning and subsequent cell elongation. Together, we demonstrate an intimate relationship between DNA replication, chromosome segregation and division site selection in the pneumococcus, providing a simple way to ensure equally sized daughter cells without the necessity for additional protein factors.', u'/content/early/2016/11/14/087627', [], [u'University of Groningen;', u'Norwegian University of Life Sciences;', u'University of Lausanne']]
[u'The natural selection of metabolism and mass selects lifeforms from viruses to multicellular animals', ['Lars Witting'], u'November 14, 2016.', u'I show that the natural selection of metabolism and mass is selecting for the major life history and allometric transitions that define lifeforms from viruses, over prokaryotes and larger unicells, to multicellular animals with sexual reproduction.\n\nThe proposed selection is driven by a mass specific metabolism that is selected as the pace of the resource handling that generates net energy for self-replication. This implies that an initial selection of mass is given by a dependence of mass specific metabolism on mass in replicators that are close to a lower size limit. A maximum dependence that is sublinear is shown to select for virus-like replicators with no intrinsic metabolism, no cell, and practically no mass. A maximum superlinear dependence is instead selecting for prokaryote-like self-replicating cells with asexual reproduction and incomplete metabolic pathways. These self-replicating cells have selection for increased net energy, and this generates a gradual unfolding of a population dynamic feed-back selection from interactive competition. The incomplete feed-back is shown to select for larger unicells with more developed metabolic pathways, and the completely developed feed-back to select for multicellular animals with sexual reproduction.\n\nThis model unifies natural selection from viruses to multicellular animals, and it provides a parsimonious explanation where allometries and major life history transitions evolve from the natural selection of metabolism and mass.', u'/content/early/2016/11/14/087650', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Greenland Institute of Natural Resources']]
[u'Domains of methylated CAC and CG target MeCP2 to tune transcription in the brain', ['Sabine Lagger', 'John C Connelly', 'Gabriele Schweikert', 'Shaun Webb', 'Jim Selfridge', 'Bernhard H Ramsahoye', 'Miao Yu', 'Dina DeSousa', 'Christian Seiser', 'Chuan He', 'Guido Sanguinetti', 'Lawrence C Sowers', 'Malcolm D Walkinshaw', 'Adrian P Bird'], u'November 14, 2016.', u'Mutations in the gene encoding the methyl-CG binding protein MeCP2 cause neurological disorders including Rett syndrome. The di-nucleotide methyl-CG (mCG) is the canonical MeCP2 DNA recognition sequence, but additional targets including non-methylated sequences have been reported. Here we use brain-specific depletion of DNA methyltransferase to show that DNA methylation is the primary determinant of MeCP2 binding in mouse brain. In vitro and in vivo analyses reveal that MeCP2 binding to non-CG methylated sites in brain is largely confined to the tri-nucleotide sequence mCAC. Structural modeling suggests that mCG and mCAC may be interchangeable as minimal structural perturbation of MeCP2 accompanies binding. MeCP2 binding to chromosomal DNA in mouse brain is proportional to mCG + mCAC density and defines domains within which transcription is sensitive to MeCP2 occupancy. The results suggest that MeCP2 interprets patterns of mCAC and mCG in the brain to negatively modulate transcription of genes critical for neuronal function.', u'/content/early/2016/11/14/087577', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'University of Edinburgh;', u'University of Chicago;', u'Medical University of Vienna;', u'University of Texas Medical Branch']]
[u'Refractive index tomograms and dynamic membrane fluctuations of red blood cells from patients with diabetes mellitus', ['SangYun Lee', 'HyunJoo Park', 'Kyoohyun Kim', 'YongHak Sohn', 'Seongsoo Jang', 'YongKeun Park'], u'November 14, 2016.', u'In this paper we present the optical characterisations of diabetic red blood cells (RBCs) in a non-invasive manner employing three-dimensional (3-D) quantitative phase imaging. By measuring 3-D refractive index tomograms and 2-D time-series phase images, the morphological (volume, surface area and sphericity), biochemical (haemoglobin concentration and content) and mechanical (membrane fluctuation) parameters were quantitatively retrieved at the individual cell level. With simultaneous measurements of individual cell properties, systematic correlative analyses on retrieved RBC parameters were also performed. Our measurements show that diabetic patients had RBCs of reduced cell sphericity and elevated intracellular haemoglobin concentration and content compared to healthy (non-diabetic) subjects. Furthermore, membrane deformability of diabetic RBCs is significantly lower than that of healthy, non-diabetic RBCs. Interestingly, non-diabetic RBCs exhibit strong correlations between the elevated glycated haemoglobin in RBC cytoplasm and decreased cell deformability, whereas diabetic RBCs do not show correlations. Our observations strongly support the idea that slow and irreversible glycation of haemoglobin and membrane proteins of RBCs by hyperglycaemia significantly compromises RBC deformability in diabetic patients.', u'/content/early/2016/11/14/087460', [u'Biophysics'], [u'KAIST;', u'Eulji University Hospital;', u'Asan Medical Center']]
[u'Time-resolved proteomics vs. ribosome profiling reveals translation dynamics under stress', ['Tzu-Yu Liu', 'Hector H. Huang', 'Diamond Wheeler', 'James A. Wells', 'Yun S. Song', 'Arun P. Wiita'], u'November 14, 2016.', u'Many small molecule chemotherapeutics induce stresses that globally inhibit mRNA translation, remodeling the cancer proteome and governing response to treatment. Here we measured protein synthesis in multiple myeloma cells treated with low-dose bortezomib by coupling pulsed-SILAC (pSILAC) with high-accuracy targeted quantitative proteomics.  We found that direct measurement of protein synthesis by pSILAC correlated well with the indirect measurement of protein synthesis by ribosome profiling under conditions of robust translation.  By developing a statistical model integrating longitudinal proteomic and mRNA-seq measurements, we found that proteomics could directly detect global alterations in translational rate as a function of therapy-induced stress after prolonged bortezomib exposure.   Finally, the model we develop here, in combination with our experimental data including both protein synthesis and degradation, predicts changes in proteome remodeling under a variety of cellular perturbations.  pSILAC therefore provides an important complement to ribosome profiling in directly measuring proteome dynamics under conditions of cellular stress.', u'/content/early/2016/11/14/087486', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'University of Pennsylvania;', u'University of California, San Francisco;', u'University of California, Berkeley']]
