[u'Figure-ground organization in visual cortex for natural scenes', ['Jonathan R. Williford', 'Rudiger von der Heydt'], u'May 15, 2016.', u'Figure-ground organization and border-ownership assignment are essential for understanding natural scenes. It has been shown that many neurons in the macaque visual cortex signal border-ownership in displays of simple geometric shapes such as squares, but how well these neurons resolve border-ownership in natural scenes is not known. We studied area V2 neurons in behaving macaques with static images of complex natural scenes. We found that about half of the neurons were border-ownership selective for contours in natural scenes and this selectivity originated from the image context. The border-ownership signals emerged within 70 ms after stimulus onset, only ~30 ms after response onset. A substantial fraction of neurons were highly consistent across scenes. Thus, the cortical mechanisms of figure-ground organization are fast and efficient even in images of complex natural scenes. Understanding how the brain performs this task so fast remains a challenge.', u'/content/early/2016/05/15/053488', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Netherlands Institute for Neuroscience;', u'Johns Hopkins University']]
[u'Advances in the integration of transcriptional regulatory information into genome-scale metabolic models', ['R.P. Vivek-Ananth', 'Areejit Samal'], u'May 15, 2016.', u'A major goal of systems biology is to build predictive computational models of cellular metabolism. Availability of complete genome sequences and wealth of legacy biochemical information has led to the reconstruction of genome-scale metabolic networks in the last 15 years for several organisms across the three domains of life. Due to paucity of information on kinetic parameters associated with metabolic reactions, the constraint-based modelling approach, flux balance analysis (FBA), has proved to be a vital alternative to investigate the capabilities of reconstructed metabolic networks. In parallel, advent of high-throughput technologies has led to the generation of massive amounts of omics data on transcriptional regulation comprising mRNA transcript levels and genome-wide binding profile of transcriptional regulators. A frontier area in metabolic systems biology has been the development of methods to integrate the available transcriptional regulatory information into constraint-based models of reconstructed metabolic networks in order to increase the predictive capabilities of computational models and understand the regulation of cellular metabolism. Here, we review the existing methods to integrate transcriptional regulatory information into constraint-based models of metabolic networks.', u'/content/early/2016/05/15/053520', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Institute of Mathematical Sciences']]
[u'The proteasome acts as a hub for local and systemic plant immunity in Arabidopsis thaliana and constitutes a virulence target of Pseudomonas syringae type-III effector proteins', ['Suayib Ustun', 'Arsheed Sheikh', 'Selena Gimenez-Ibanez', 'Alexandra Jones', 'Vardis Ntoukakis', 'Frederik Bornke'], u'May 15, 2016.', u'Recent evidence suggests that the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) is involved in several aspects of plant immunity and a range of plant pathogens subvert the UPS to enhance their virulence. Here, we show that proteasome activity is strongly induced during basal defense in Arabidopsis and mutant lines defective in proteasome subunits RPT2a and RPN12a support increased bacterial growth of virulent Pseudomonas syringae DC3000 (Pst), strains in local leaves. Both proteasome subunits are required for PTI events such as production of reactive oxygen species and mitogen-activated protein kinases signaling as well as for defense gene expression. Furthermore, analysis of bacterial growth after a secondary infection of systemic leaves revealed that the establishment of systemic-acquired resistance (SAR) is impaired in proteasome mutants, suggesting that the proteasome plays an important role in defense priming and SAR. In addition, we show that Pst inhibits proteasome activity in a type-III secretion dependent manner. A systematic screen for type-III effector proteins from Pst  for their ability to interfere with proteasome activity revealed HopM1, HopAO1, HopA1 and HopG1 as candidates. Identification of proteins interacting with HopM1 by mass-spectrometry indicate that HopM1 resides in a complex together with several E3 ubiquitin ligases and proteasome subunits, supporting the hypothesis that HopM1 associates with the proteasome leading to its inhibition. We conclude that the proteasome is an essential component of the plant immune system and that some pathogens have developed a general strategy to overcome proteasome-mediated defense.', u'/content/early/2016/05/15/053504', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Leibniz Insitute of Vegetable and Ornamental Crops;', u'School of Life Sciences, University of Warwick;', u'Plant Molecular Genetics Department, Centro Nacional de Biotecnologia-CSIC (CNB-CSIC)']]
[u'Utilizing Social Media and Video Games to Control #DIY Microscopes', ['Maxime Leblanc-Latour', 'Craig Bryan', 'Andrew Pelling'], u'May 15, 2016.', u'Open-source lab equipment is becoming more widespread with the popularization of fabrication tools such as 3d-printers, laser cutters, CNC machines, open source microcontrollers and open source software. Although many pieces of common laboratory equipment have been developed, software control of these items is sometimes lacking. Specifically, control software that can be easily implemented and enable user-input and control over multiple platforms (PC, smartphone, web, etc.). The aim of this proof-of-principle study was to develop and implement software for the control of a low-cost, 3d-printed microscope. Here, we present two approaches, which enable microscope control by exploiting the functionality of the social media platform Twitter or player actions inside of the videogame Minecraft. The microscope was constructed from a modified web-camera and implemented on a Raspberry Pi computer. Four aspects of microscope control were tested, including single image capture, focus control and time-lapse imaging. The Twitter-embodiment enabled users to send "tweets" directly to the microscope. Image data acquired by the microscope was then returned to the user through a Twitter reply and stored permanently on the photo-sharing platform Flickr, along with any relevant metadata. Local control of the microscope was also implemented by utilizing the video game Minecraft, in situations where Internet connectivity is not present or stable. A virtual laboratory was constructed inside the Minecraft world and player actions inside the laboratory were linked to specific microscope functions. Here, we present the methodology and results of these experiments and discuss possible limitations and future extensions of this work.', u'/content/early/2016/05/15/053470', [u'Biophysics'], [u'University of Ottawa']]
[u'Stable host gene expression in the gut of adult Drosophila melanogaster with different bacterial mono-associations', ['Carolyn Elya', 'Vivian Zhang', 'Will Ludington', 'Michael B Eisen'], u'May 15, 2016.', u'There is growing evidence that the microbes found in the digestive tracts of animals influence host biology, but we still do not understand how this comes about. Here, we evaluated how different microbial species commonly associated with laboratory-reared Drosophila melanogaster impact host biology at the level of gene expression in the dissected adult gut or the entire adult organism. We observed that guts from gnotobiotic animals associated from the embryonic stage with either zero, one or three bacterial species demonstrated indistinguishable transcriptional profiles. Additionally, we found that the gut transcriptional profiles of animals reared in the presence of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae alone or in combination with bacteria could recapitulate those of conventionally-reared animals. In contrast, we found whole body transcriptional profiles of conventionally-reared animals were distinct from all of the gnotobiotic treatments tested. Our data suggest that adult flies are insensitive to the ingestion of different bacterial species but that prior to adulthood, different microbes impact the host in ways that lead to global transcriptional differences observable across the whole adult body.', u'/content/early/2016/05/15/053512', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of California Berkeley']]
