[u'Dysregulation of Long Non-coding RNA (lncRNA) Genes and Predicted lncRNA-protein Interactions during Zika Virus Infection', ['Arunachalam Ramaiah', 'Deisy Contreras', 'Vineela Gangalapudi', 'Masumi Sameer Padhye', 'Jie Tang', 'Vaithilingaraja Arumugaswami'], u'July 1, 2016.', u'Zika Virus (ZIKV) is a causative agent for poor pregnancy outcome and fetal developmental abnormalities, including microcephaly and eye defects. As a result, ZIKV is now a confirmed teratogen. Understanding host-pathogen interactions, specifically cellular perturbations caused by ZIKV, can provide novel therapeutic targets. In order to complete viral replication, viral pathogens control the host cellular machineries and regulate various factors, including long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) genes, at transcriptional levels. The role of lncRNA genes in the pathogenesis of ZIKV-mediated microcephaly and eye defects is currently unknown. To gain additional insights, we focused on profiling the differentially expressed lncRNA genes during ZIKV infection in mammalian cells. For this study, we employed a contemporary clinical Zika viral isolate, PRVABC59, of Asian genotype. We utilized an unbiased RNA sequencing approach to profile the lncRNA transcriptome in ZIKV infected Vero cells. We identified a total of 121 lncRNA genes that are differentially regulated at 48 hours post-infection. The majority of these genes are independently validated by reverse-transcription qPCR. A notable observation was that the lncRNAs, MALAT1 (Metastasis Associated Lung Adenocarcinoma Transcript 1) and NEAT1 (Nuclear Paraspeckle Assembly Transcript 1), are down-regulated upon Zika viral infection. MALAT1 and NEAT1 are known as nuclear localized RNAs that regulate gene expression and cell proliferation. Protein-lncRNA interaction maps revealed that MALAT1 and NEAT1 share common interacting partners and form a larger network comprising of 71 cellular factors. ZIKV-mediated dysregulation of these two regulatory lncRNAs can alter the expression of respective target genes and associated biological functions, an important one being cell division. In conclusion, this investigation is the first to provide insight into the biological connection of lncRNAs and ZIKV which can be further explored for developing antiviral therapy and understanding fetal developmental processes.', u'/content/early/2016/07/01/061788', [], [u'Indian Institute of Science;', u'Cedars-Sinai Medical Center']]
[u'Forward genetic screen of human transposase genomic rearrangements', ['Anton Henssen', 'Eileen Jiang', 'Jiali Zhuang', 'Luca Pinello', 'Nicholas Socci', 'Richard Koche', 'Mithat Gonen', 'Camila Villasante', 'Scott Armstrong', 'Daniel Bauer', 'Zhiping Weng', 'Alex Kentsis'], u'July 1, 2016.', u'Numerous human genes encode potentially active DNA transposases or recombinases, but our understanding of their functions remains limited due to shortage of methods to profile their activities on endogenous genomic substrates. To enable functional analysis of human transposase-derived genes, we combined forward chemical genetic hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase 1 (HPRT1) screening with massively parallel paired-end DNA sequencing and structural variant genome assembly and analysis. Here, we report the HPRT1 mutational spectrum induced by the human transposase PGBD5, including PGBD5-specific signal sequences (PSS) that serve as potential genomic rearrangement substrates. The discovered PSS motifs and high-throughput forward chemical genomic screening approach should prove useful for the elucidation of endogenous genome remodeling activities of PGBD5 and other domesticated human DNA transposases and recombinases.', u'/content/early/2016/07/01/061770', [], [u'Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center;', u'University of Massachusetts Medical School;', u'Harvard Medical School']]
[u'Simultaneous measurement of chromatin accessibility, DNA methylation, and nucleosome phasing in single cells', ['Sebastian Pott'], u'July 1, 2016.', u'Gaining insights into the regulatory mechanisms that underlie the pervasive transcriptional variation observed between individual cells necessitates the development of methods that measure chromatin organization in single cells. Nucleosome Occupancy and Methylome-sequencing (NOMe-seq) employs a GpC methyltransferase to detect accessible chromatin and has been used to map nucleosome positioning and DNA methylation genome-wide in bulk samples. Here I provide proof-of-principle that NOMe-seq can be adapted to measure chromatin accessibility and endogenous DNA methylation in single cells (scNOMe-seq). scNOMe-seq recovered characteristic accessibility and DNA methylation patterns at DNase hypersensitive sites (DHSs) and enabled direct estimation of the fraction of accessible DHSs within an individual cell. In addition, scNOMe-seq provided high resolution of chromatin accessibility within individual loci which was exploited to detect footprints of CTCF binding and to estimate the average nucleosome phasing distances in single cells. This approach could be applied to characterize the chromatin organization of single cells in heterogeneous mixtures of cells, for example to samples of primary cancer cells.', u'/content/early/2016/07/01/061739', [], [u'University of Chicago']]
[u'Adaptation of the Arizona Cognitive Task Battery for use with the Ts65Dn Mouse Model of Down Syndrome', ['Michael Ryan Hunsaker', 'Genevieve K Smith', 'Raymond P Kesner'], u'July 1, 2016.', u"We propose and validate a clear strategy to efficiently and comprehensively characterize neurobehavioral deficits in the Ts65Dn mouse model of Down Syndrome. This novel approach uses neurocognitive theory to design and select behavioral tasks that test specific hypotheses concerning Down Syndrome. In this manuscript we model in Ts65Dn mice the Arizona Cognitive Task Battery used to study human populations with Down Syndrome. This approach extends the utility of mouse models of Down Syndrome by integrating the expertise of clinical neurology and cognitive neuroscience into the mouse behavioral laboratory. Further, by directly emphasizing the reciprocal translation of research between human disease states and the associated mouse models, we demonstrate that it is possible for both groups to mutually inform each others' research to more efficiently generate hypotheses and elucidate treatment strategies.", u'/content/early/2016/07/01/061754', [], [u'University of Utah Department of Psychology;', u'University of Utah']]
[u'Cross-species genome-wide identification of evolutionary conserved microProteins', ['Daniel Straub', 'Stephan Wenkel'], u'July 1, 2016.', u'MicroProteins are small single domain proteins that act by engaging their targets into non-productive protein complexes. In order to identify novel microProteins in any sequenced genome of interest, we have developed miPFinder, a program that identifies and classifies potential microProteins. In the past years, several microProteins have been discovered in plants where they are mainly involved in the regulation of development. The miPFinder algorithm identifies all up to date known plant microProteins and extends the microProtein concept to other protein families. Here, we reveal potential microProtein candidates in several plant and animal reference genomes. A large number of these microProteins are species-specific while others evolved early and are evolutionary highly conserved. Most known microProtein genes originated from large ancestral genes by gene duplication, mutation and subsequent degradation. Gene ontology analysis shows that putative microProtein ancestors are often located in the nucleus, and involved in DNA binding and formation of protein complexes. Additionally, microProtein candidates act in plant transcriptional regulation, signal transduction and anatomical structure development. MiPFinder is freely available to find microProteins in any genome and will aid in the identification of novel microProteins in plants and animals.', u'/content/early/2016/07/01/061655', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Copenhagen']]
[u'Deep Sequencing of 10,000 Human Genomes', ['Amalio Telenti', 'Levi T Pierce', 'William H Biggs', 'Julia di Iulio', 'Emily H.M. Wong', 'Martin M Fabani', 'Ewen F Kirkness', 'Ahmed Moustafa', 'Naisha Shah', 'Chao Xie', 'Suzanne C Brewerton', 'Nadeem Bulsara', 'Chad Garner', 'Gary Metzker', 'Efren Sandoval', 'Brad A Perkins', 'Franz J Och', 'Yaron Turpaz', 'J. Craig Venter'], u'July 1, 2016.', u'We report on the sequencing of 10,545 human genomes at 30-40x coverage with an emphasis on quality metrics and novel variant and sequence discovery. We find that 84% of an individual human genome can be sequenced confidently. This high confidence region includes 91.5% of exon sequence and 95.2% of known pathogenic variant positions. We present the distribution of over 150 million single nucleotide variants in the coding and non-coding genome. Each newly sequenced genome contributes an average of 8,579 novel variants. In addition, each genome carries in average 0.7 Mb of sequence that is not found in the main build of the hg38 reference genome. The density of this catalog of variation allowed us to construct high resolution profiles that define genomic sites that are highly intolerant of genetic variation. These results indicate that the data generated by deep genome sequencing is of the quality necessary for clinical use.', u'/content/early/2016/07/01/061663', [u'Genomics'], [u'J Craig Venter Institute;', u'Human Longevity Inc.;', u'J. Craig Venter Institute']]
[u'Adversity magnifies the importance of social information in decision-making', ['Alfonso Perez-Escudero', 'Gonzalo G de Polavieja'], u'July 1, 2016.', u'In adverse conditions, individuals follow the majority more strongly. This phenomenon is very general across social species, but explanations have been particular to the species and context, including antipredatory responses, deflection of responsibility, or increase in uncertainty. Here we show that the impact of social information in realistic decision-making typically increases with adversity, giving more weight to the choices of the majority. The conditions for this social magnification are very natural, but were absent in previous decision-making models due to extra assumptions that simplified mathematical analysis, like very low levels of stochasticity or the assumption that when one option is good the other one must be bad. We show that decision-making in collectives can quantitatively explain the different impact of social influence with different levels of adversity for different species and contexts, including life-threatening situations in fish and simple experiments in humans.', u'/content/early/2016/07/01/061630', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology;', u'Champalimaud Center for the Unknown']]
[u'Shifts in outcrossing rates and changes to floral traits are associated with the evolution of herbicide resistance in the common morning glory', ['Adam Kuester', 'Eva Fall', 'Shu-Mei Chang', 'Regina Baucom'], u'July 1, 2016.', u'Human-mediated selection can strongly influence the evolutionary response of natural organisms within ecological timescales. But what traits allow for, or even facilitate, adaptation to the strong selection humans impose on natural systems? Using a combination of lab and greenhouse studies of 32 natural populations of the common agricultural weed, Ipomoea purpurea, we show that herbicide resistant populations self-fertilize more than susceptible populations. We also identify a potential mechanism to explain this higher rate of selfing in nature: highly resistant populations exhibit lower anther-stigma distance, a trait known to lead to high self-pollination in this species. Overall, our results extend the general finding that plant mating can be impacted by human-mediated agents of selection to that of the extreme selection of the agricultural system. This work highlights the influence of human-mediated selection on rapid responses of natural populations that can lead to unexpected long-term evolutionary consequences.', u'/content/early/2016/07/01/061689', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Michigan;', u'University of Georgia']]
[u'Tempus et Locus: a tool for extracting precisely dated viral sequences from GenBank, and its application to the phylogenetics of primate erythroparvovirus 1 (B19V)', ['Derek Gatherer', 'Alice R Carter'], u'July 1, 2016.', u'The presence of data in the collection_date field of a GenBank sequence record is of great assistance in the use of that sequence for Bayesian phylogenetics using tip-dating. We present Tempus et Locus (TeL), a tool for extracting such sequences from a GenBank-formatted sequence database.  TeL shows that 60% of viral sequences in GenBank have collection date fields, but that this varies considerably between species.  Primate erythroparvovirus 1 (human parvovirus B19 or B19V) has only 40% of its sequences dated, of which only 112 are of more than 4 kb.  100 of these are from B19V sub-genotype 1a and were collected from a mere 6 studies conducted in 5 countries between 2002 and 2013.  Nevertheless, Bayesian phylogenetic analysis of this limited set gives a date for the common ancestor of sub-genotype 1a in 1990 (95% HPD 1981-1996) which is in reasonable agreement with estimates of previous studies where collection dates have been assembled by more laborious methods of literature search and direct enquiries to sequence submitters.  We conclude that although collection dates should become standard for all future GenBank submissions of virus sequences, accurate dating of ancestors is possible with even a small number of sequences if sampling information is high quality.', u'/content/early/2016/07/01/061697', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Lancaster University;', u'London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine']]
[u'Differences in perceived severity of Zika virus infection and dengue fever and its influence on mosquito control practices in Malaysia, a dengue-endemic country', ['Li Ping Wong', 'Haridah Alias', 'Nasrin Aghamohammadi', 'I-Ching Sam', 'Sazaly AbuBakar'], u'July 1, 2016.', u'Background: It is important to study the concerns over the Zika virus (ZIKV) outbreak among the general public in dengue-endemic countries such as Malaysia, as both diseases are transmitted by the same vector species. Furthermore, investigation of public prevention measures for ZIKV is essential in order to identify the gaps in mosquito control practices. The aims of this study were to explore the differences in 1) the perception of severity towards ZIKV infection and dengue fever, and 2) mosquito control practices before and after the ZIKV outbreak was declared a Public Health Emergency of International Concern (PHEIC). Method: Data were collected between February 2015 and May 2016 using a computer-assisted telephone interviewing system on a random sample of 567 people from the general Malaysian population aged above 18 years from randomly selected households. Results: The median scale score for perceived severity of ZIKV was 3 (interquartile range [IQR] 1-5) versus 4 (IQR 3-5) for dengue (P<0.001). The majority perceived dengue as being more severe than ZIKV (41.6%). Having friends or acquaintances that had died from dengue was significantly associated with higher perceived severity of ZIKV than dengue (odds ratio [OR] 1.913 [95% confidence interval (CI) 1.032-3.547]). The scores for mosquito control practices before and after ZIKV was declared a PHEIC were similar, at 4 (IQR 3-5). Multivariate analysis revealed that participants with a higher score for perception of severity of ZIKV were more likely to report greater mosquito control practices after the declaration of the PHEIC (OR 1.822 [95% CI 1.107-2.998]). Conclusions: The emerging ZIKV pandemic requires concerted efforts to enhance mosquito control practices among the Malaysian public. Efforts to improve public mosquito control practices should focus on enhancing the perception of the severity of ZIKV.', u'/content/early/2016/07/01/061622', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'University of Malaya']]
