[u'A Facilitated Diffusion Mechanism Establishes the Drosophila Dorsal Gradient', ['Sophia N Carrell', "MIchael D O'Connell", 'Amy E Allen', 'Stephanie M Smith', 'Gregory Reeves'], u'June 3, 2016.', u'The transcription factor NF-\u03baB plays an important role in the immune system as an apoptotic and inflammatory factor. In the Drosophila melanogaster embryo, a homolog of NF-\u03baB called Dorsal (dl) patterns the dorsal-ventral (DV) axis in a concentration-dependent manner. During early development, dl is sequestered outside the nucleus by Cactus (Cact), homologous to I\u03baB. Toll signaling at the ventral midline breaks the dl/Cact complex, allowing dl to enter the nucleus where it transcribes target genes. Here we show that dl accumulates on the ventral side of the embryo over the last 5 cleavage cycles and that this accumulation is the result of facilitated diffusion of dl/Cact complex.  We speculate that the predominant role for Cact in DV axis specification is to shuttle dl towards the ventral midline. Given that this mechanism has been found in other, independent systems, we suggest it may be more prevalent than previously thought.', u'/content/early/2016/06/03/057091', [], [u'NCSU;', u'UNC']]
[u'The PAS domain-containing protein HeuR regulates heme uptake in Campylobacter jejuni', ['Jeremiah Johnson', 'Jennifer Gaddy', 'Victor DiRita'], u'June 3, 2016.', u'Campylobacter jejuni is a leading cause of bacterial-derived gastroenteritis.  A previous mutant screen demonstrated that the heme uptake system (Chu) is required for full colonization of the chicken gastrointestinal tract.  Subsequent work found identified a PAS domain containing regulator, termed HeuR, as required for chicken colonization.  Here we confirm that both the heme uptake system and HeuR are required for full chicken gastrointestinal tract colonization, with the heuR mutant being particularly affected during competition with wild-type C. jejuni.  Transcriptomic analysis identified the chu genes, and those encoding other iron uptake systems, as likely regulatory targets of HeuR. Purified HeuR specifically bound the chuZA promoter region in electrophoretic mobility shift assays.   Consistent with a role for HeuR in chu expression, heuR mutants were unable to efficiently use heme as a source of iron in iron-limiting conditions and, mutants exhibited decreased levels of cell associated iron by mass spectrometry.  Finally, we demonstrate that a heuR mutant of C. jejuni is resistant to hydrogen peroxide, and that this resistance correlates to elevated levels of catalase activity.', u'/content/early/2016/06/03/057042', [], [u'University of Tennessee;', u'Vanderbilt University;', u'Michigan State University']]
[u'Within-patient HIV mutation frequencies reveal fitness costs of CpG dinucleotides, drastic amino acid changes and G\u2192A mutations', ['Marion Hartl', 'Kristof Theys', 'Alison Feder', 'Maoz Gelbart', 'Adi Stern', 'Pleuni S Pennings'], u'June 3, 2016.', u'HIV has a high mutation rate and exhibits remarkable genetic diversity. \nHowever, we know little about the fitness cost of HIV mutations in vivo. We calculated the mean frequency of mutations at 870 sites of the pol gene in 160 patients, allowing us to determine the cost of different types of mutations. We found that non-synonymous mutations that lead to drastic amino acid changes are three times more costly than those that do not, mutations that create new CpG dinucleotides are up to four times more costly than those that do not, and G\u2192A mutations are more than twice as costly as A\u2192G mutations. In addition, within-patient mutation frequencies are highly correlated with substitution frequencies across the global HIV pandemic. We anticipate our new frequency-based approach will provide insights into the fitness landscape and evolvability of not only HIV, but a variety of microbes.', u'/content/early/2016/06/03/057026', [], [u'San Francisco State University;', u'University of Leuven;', u'University of Stanford;', u'University of Tel Aviv']]
[u'Female-female aggression in a sexual/unisexual species complex over resources', ['Amber Makowicz', 'Tana Moore', 'Ingo Schlupp'], u'June 3, 2016.', u'Kin selection theory predicts that closely related individuals should be more altruistic and less antagonistic towards one another. In addition, it would predict that the higher the relatedness value (R) between individuals, such as in clonal organisms, the more likely kin selection is to evolve. One benefit of kin selection is a reduction in aggression towards kin in various social contexts, such as foraging. In the gynogenetic Amazon molly, Poecilia formosa, females have been shown to differentiate between clone types, preferring to associate with clonal sisters to non-sisters, and regulate their aggressive behaviors accordingly. We ask if Amazon mollies in resource-limited environments: 1) still maintain the ability to regulate aggressive behaviors according to relatedness (heterospecific females, clonal sisters or non-sisters), and 2) how their aggressive behaviors change relative to a social partner?  Using a repeated-measures design, we found that focal females regulated their aggressive behaviors depending on partner type (i.e., a heterospecific female, clonal sister, or non-sister). Heterospecific females and the non-sister clones spent more time behaving aggressively towards the focal females, and these females also  received significantly more bites from heterospecific females. Interestingly, the clonal sisters, when compared to the other two female types, performed significantly more tail beats towards focal females. We are able to confirm that females do show more aggression towards heterospecific females and non-sister clones in a food-limited environment, and that their aggression scales with relatedness (R).', u'/content/early/2016/06/03/057018', [], [u'University of Konstanz;', u'University of Oklahoma']]
[u'Cryptic diversity and multiple origins of the widespread mayfly species group Baetis rhodani (Ephemeroptera: Baetidae) on northwestern Mediterranean islands', ['Roberta Bisconti', 'Daniele Canestrelli', 'Roberta Tenchini', 'Carlo Belfiore', 'Andrea Buffagni', 'Giuseppe Nascetti'], u'June 3, 2016.', u'How the often highly endemic biodiversity of islands originated has been debated for decades and it remains a fervid research ground. Here, using mitochondrial and nuclear gene sequence analyses, we investigate the diversity, phylogenetic relationships, and evolutionary history of the mayfly Baetis gr. rhodani on the three largest north-western Mediterranean islands (Sardinia, Corsica, Elba). We identify three distinct, largely co-distributed, and deeply differentiated lineages, with divergences tentatively dated back to the Eocene-Oligocene transition. Bayesian population structure analyses reveal a lack of gene exchange between them, even at sites where they are syntopic, indicating that these lineages belong to three putative species. Their phylogenetic relationships with continental relatives, together with the dating estimates, support a role for three processes contributing to this diversity: (1) vicariance, primed by microplate disjunction and oceanic transgression; (2) dispersal from the continent; and (3) speciation within the island group. Thus, our results do not point toward a prevailing role for any of the previously invoked processes. Rather, they suggest that a variety processes equally contributed to shape the diverse and endemic biota of this group of islands.', u'/content/early/2016/06/03/056556.1', [], [u'Tuscia University;', u'CNR  IRSA']]
[u'Phased Diploid Genome Assembly with Single Molecule Real-Time Sequencing', ['Chen-Shan Chin', 'Paul Peluso', 'Fritz J. Sedlazeck', 'Maria Nattestad', 'Gregory T. Concepcion', 'Alicia Clum', 'Christopher Dunn', "Ronan O'Malley", 'Rosa Figueroa-Balderas', 'Abraham Morales-Cruz', 'Grant R. Cramer', 'Massimo Delledonne', 'Chongyuan Luo', 'Joseph R. Ecker', 'Dario Cantu', 'David R. Rank', 'Michael C. Schatz'], u'June 3, 2016.', u'While genome assembly projects have been successful in a number of haploid or inbred species, one of the current main challenges is assembling non-inbred or rearranged heterozygous genomes. To address this critical need, we introduce the open-source FALCON and FALCON-Unzip algorithms (https://github.com/PacificBiosciences/FALCON/) to assemble Single Molecule Real-Time (SMRT(R)) Sequencing data into highly accurate, contiguous, and correctly phased diploid genomes. We demonstrate the quality of this approach by assembling new reference sequences for three heterozygous samples, including an F1 hybrid of the model species Arabidopsis thaliana, the widely cultivated V. vinifera cv. Cabernet Sauvignon, and the coral fungus Clavicorona pyxidata that have challenged short-read assembly approaches. The FALCON-based assemblies were substantially more contiguous and complete than alternate short or long-read approaches. The phased diploid assembly enabled the study of haplotype structures and heterozygosities between the homologous chromosomes, including identifying widespread heterozygous structural variations within the coding sequences.', u'/content/early/2016/06/03/056887', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Pacific Biosciences;', u'Departments of Computer Science and Biology, Johns Hopkins University;', u'Simons Center for Quantitative Biology, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor;', u'DOE Joint Genome Institute;', u'Genomic Analysis Laboratory, The Salk Institute for Biological Studies;', u'Department of Viticulture and Enology, University of California Davis;', u'Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Nevada, Reno;', u"Dipartimento di Biotecnologie, Universita' degli Studi di Verona, 37134 Verona, Italy;", u'Department of Viticulture and Enology, University of California Davis, CA;', u'Departments of Computer Science and Biology, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore']]
[u'Acoustic-based model estimation of snapping shrimp populations and the effects of a sponge die-off', ['Jack Butler', 'Mark Butler', 'Holly Gaff'], u'June 3, 2016.', u'Human use of the ocean and its ecosystems continues to degrade coastal habitats around the world. Assessing anthropogenic impacts on these environments can be cost and manpower intensive; thus, developing rapid, remote techniques to assess habitat quality has become increasingly important. We employed autonomous hydrophone receivers to record the soundscapes of healthy hard-bottom habitat in Florida Bay, Florida (USA) and hard-bottom areas impacted by sponge die-offs.  We also recorded sounds emanating from individual sponges of three species that were isolated in underwater sound booths, and then enumerated the invertebrates (mostly snapping shrimp) dwelling within the canals of each sponge. From these recordings, a modified cylindrical sound propagation model was used to estimate distances to snapping shrimp snaps. Using the program Distance, which applies distance sampling theory to cue count surveys, we estimated snapping shrimp population density and abundance within both habitat types. More snapping shrimp snaps per unit time were recorded in healthy hard-bottom areas as compared to degraded hard-bottom areas. In addition, the average distance to a snap source was greater within degraded hard-bottom areas than within healthy hard-bottom areas. As a consequence, the estimated density and abundance of snapping shrimp were one to two orders of magnitude greater within healthy habitat than within degraded habitat. This study demonstrates the feasibility of using acoustic sampling and modeling to rapidly assess populations of soniferous benthic indicator species, whose vocalizations may yield indirect estimates of habitat quality.', u'/content/early/2016/06/03/056986', [u'Ecology'], [u'Old Dominion University']]
[u'Cancer cells with alternative lengthening of telomeres do not display a general hypersensitivity to ATR inhibition', ['Deeg Katharina', 'Inn Chung', 'Caroline Bauer', 'Karsten Rippe'], u'June 3, 2016.', u'Telomere maintenance is a hallmark of cancer as it provides cancer cells with cellular immortality. A significant fraction of tumors uses the alternative lengthening of telomeres (ALT) pathway to elongate their telomeres and to gain an unlimited proliferation potential. Since the ALT pathway is unique to cancer cells, it represents a potentially valuable, currently unexploited target for anticancer therapies. Recently, it was proposed that ALT renders cells hypersensitive to ataxia telangiectasia- and RAD3-related (ATR) protein inhibitors (Flynn et al., Science 347, 273). Here, we measured the response of various ALT or telomerase positive cell lines to the ATR inhibitor VE-821. In addition, we compared the effect of the inhibitor on cell viability in an isogenic cell line, in which ALT was active or suppressed. In these experiments a general ATR inhibitor sensitivity of cells with ALT could not be confirmed. We rather propose that the observed variations in sensitivity reflect differences between cell lines that are unrelated to ALT.', u'/content/early/2016/06/03/053280', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ) and Bioquant Center']]
[u'High habitat-specificity in fungal communities of an oligo-mesotrophic, temperate lake', ['Christian Wurzbacher', 'Norman Warthmann', 'Elizabeth Bourne', 'Katrin Attermeyer', 'Martin Allgaier', 'Jeff R Powell', 'Harald Detering', 'Susan Mbedi', 'Hans-Peter Grossart', 'Michael T Monaghan'], u'June 3, 2016.', u'Freshwater fungi are a poorly studied paraphyletic group that include a high diversity of phyla. Most studies of aquatic fungal diversity have focussed on single habitats, thus the linkage between habitat heterogeneity and fungal diversity remains largely unexplored. We took 216 samples from 54 locations representing eight different habitats in meso-oligotrophic, temperate Lake Stechlin in northern Germany, including the pelagic and littoral water column, sediments, and biotic substrates. We pyrosequenced with an universal eukaryotic marker within the ribosomal large subunit (LSU) in order to compare fungal diversity, community structure, and species turnover among habitats. Our analysis recovered 1024 fungal OTUs (97% criterion). Diversity was highest in the sediment, biofilms, and benthic samples (293-428 OTUs), intermediate in water and reed samples (36-64 OTUs), and lowest in plankton (8 OTUs) samples. NMDS clustering clearly grouped the eight studied habitats into six clusters, indicating that total diversity was strongly influenced by turnover among habitats. Fungal communities exhibited pronounced changes at the levels of phylum and order along a gradient from littoral to pelagic habitats. The large majority of OTUs could not be classified below the order level due to the lack of aquatic fungal entries in taxonomic databases. Our study provides a first estimate of lake-wide fungal diversity and highlights the important contribution of habitat-specificity to total fungal diversity. This remarkable diversity is probably an underestimate, because most lakes undergo seasonal changes and previous studies have uncovered differences in fungal communities among lakes.', u'/content/early/2016/06/03/056929', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Gothenburg, Department of Biological and Environmental Sciences, Gothenburg, Sweden;', u'Australian National University, College of Medicine, Biology and Environment, Canberra,  Australia;', u'Leibniz-Institute of Freshwater Ecology and Inland Fisheries, Department of Ecosystem Research;', u'Uppsala University, Uppsala, Department of Ecology and Genetics, Limnology, Sweden;', u'Berlin Center for Genomics in Biodiversity Research, Berlin, Germany;', u'Hawkesbury Institute for the Environment, Western Sydney University, Penrith, NSW, Australia;', u'Leibniz-Institute of Freshwater Ecology and Inland Fisheries, Department of Experimental Limnology']]
[u'Active modules for multilayer weighted gene co-expression networks: a continuous optimization approach', ['Dong Li', 'Shan He', 'Zhisong Pan', 'Guyu Hu'], u'June 3, 2016.', u'Searching for active connected subgraphs in biological networks has shown important to identifying functional modules. Most existing active modules identification methods need both network structural information and gene activity measures, typically requiring prior knowledge database and high-throughput data. As a pure data-driven gene network, weighted gene co-expression network (WGCN) could be constructed only from expression profile. Searching for modules on WGCN thus has potential values. While traditional clustering based modules detection on WGCN method covers all genes, unavoidable introducing many uninformative ones when annotating modules. We need to find more accurate part of them.', u'/content/early/2016/06/03/056952', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'School of Computer Science, University of Birmingham, UK;', u'PLA University of Science and Technology, China']]
[u'Stratifying risk of prostate cancer recurrence following external beam radiation therapy: Comparing prostate MRI with prostate biopsy pathology.', ['William Millard', 'Jason Slater', 'Samuel Randolph', 'Thomas Kelly', 'David Bush'], u'June 3, 2016.', u'Background:  In patients with clinically localized prostate cancer receiving external beam radiation therapy, studies have shown information from prostate biopsy cores can be predictive of clinical outcomes. Recent work from our institution compared several biopsy findings in low- and intermediate-risk patients and found a subset of patients who were more likely to fail treatment. This indicates patients in these groups may benefit from further risk stratification prior to initiation of therapy. Furthermore, findings on pre-treatment prostate MRI independently predict PSA relapse after external beam radiation therapy. Comparing MRI and pathological data may help to accurately further risk stratify patients. Our purpose is to determine if there is a correlation between the poor prognostic factors demonstrated on prostate biopsy cores and selected findings on prostate MRI.\n\nMethods: Intermediate risk prostate cancer patients with 1.5 and 3.0 Tesla MRI scans of the prostate performed from 2007-2011 were selected for a retrospective cohort study. Cases were reviewed by two body-trained radiologists who were blinded to clinical patient information. Reader consensus was obtained at the time of reading regarding presence of extracapsular extension, seminal vesicle invasion, and disease in each sextant by T2 and ADC imaging, including a dominant nodule. Results were analyzed for correlation between these findings on MRI and compared with results of prostate biopsy cores, including maximum involvement of any biopsy core (MIBC), percentage of cancer volume (PCV) and percent positive biopsy cores (PPBC). \n\nResults: The absolute presence of a dominant nodule on MRI was statistically significantly correlated with elevated PCV and PPBC applying the t-test for equality of means, with p-values of 0.019 and 0.006 respectively. PSA, Gleason score, and MIBC were not found to be correlated with dominant nodule on MRI.\n\nConclusions:  There is a strong positive correlation between MRI findings of a dominant nodule and prognostic biopsy findings of elevated PPBC and PCV.', u'/content/early/2016/06/03/056879', [u'Pathology'], [u'Loma Linda University Medical Center']]
[u'First evidence of a menstruating rodent: the spiny mouse (Acomys cahirinus)', ['Nadia Bellofiore', 'Stacey J Ellery', 'Jared Mamrot', 'David W Walker', 'Peter Temple-Smith', 'Hayley Dickinson'], u'June 3, 2016.', u'Background: Advances in research relating to menstruation and associated disorders (such as endometriosis and pre-menstrual syndrome) have been hindered by the lack of an appropriate animal model. Thus, many aspects of this phenomenon remain poorly understood limiting the development of efficacious treatment for women. Menstruating species account for only 1.5% of mammals, and less than 0.09% of these are non-primates. Menstruation occurs as a consequence of progesterone priming of the endometrial stroma and a spontaneous decidual reaction. At the end of each infertile cycle as progesterone levels decline the uterus is unable to maintain this terminally differentiated stroma and the superficial endometrium is shed. True menstruation has never been reported in rodents. \nObjective: Here we describe the first observation of menstruation in a rodent, the spiny mouse (Acomys cahirinus). \nStudy Design: Virgin female spiny mice (n=14) aged 12-16 weeks were sampled through daily vaginal lavage for 2 complete reproductive cycles in our in-house colony at Monash Medical Centre, Clayton, Australia. Stage-specific collection of reproductive tissue and plasma was used for histology, prolactin immunohistochemistry, and ELISA assay of progesterone (n=5 / stage of the menstrual cycle). Normally distributed data are reported as the mean \xb1 standard error and significant differences calculated using a one-way ANOVA. Non-normal data are displayed as the median values of replicates (with interquartile range) and significant differences calculated using Kruskal-Wallis test.\nResults: Mean cycle length was 8.7 \xb1 0.4 days with red blood cells observed in the lavages over 3.0 \xb1 0.2 days. Cyclic endometrial shedding and blood in the vaginal canal concluding with each infertile cycle was confirmed in all virgin females. The endometrium was thickest during the luteal phase, when plasma progesterone peaked at ~102.1 ng/mL and the optical density for prolactin immunoreactivity was strongest. The spiny mouse undergoes spontaneous decidualisation, demonstrating for the first time menstruation in a rodent. Conclusion: The spiny mouse is the first rodent species known to menstruate and provides an unprecedented natural non-primate model to study the mechanisms of menstrual shedding and repair, and may be useful in furthering our understanding of human specific menstrual and pregnancy associated diseases.', u'/content/early/2016/06/03/056895', [u'Physiology'], [u'Hudson Institute of Medical Research;', u'Monash University']]
[u'Controlling noise in the timing of intracellular events: A first-passage time approach', ['Khem Raj Ghusinga', 'John J Dennehy', 'Abhyudai Singh'], u'June 3, 2016.', u'In the noisy cellular environment, gene products are subject to inherent random fluctuations in copy numbers over time. How cells ensure precision in the timing of key intracellular events, in spite of such stochasticity is an intriguing fundamental problem. We formulate event timing as a first-passage time problem, where an event is triggered when the level of a protein crosses a critical threshold for the first time. Novel analytical calculations are preformed for the first-passage time distribution in stochastic models of gene expression, including models with feedback regulation. Derivation of these formulas motivates an interesting question: is there an optimal feedback strategy to regulate the synthesis of a protein to ensure that an event will occur at a precise time, while minimizing deviations or noise about the mean. Counter-intuitively, results show that for a stable long-lived protein, the optimal strategy is to express the protein at a constant rate without any feedback regulation, and any form of feedback (positive, negative or any combination of them) will always amplify noise in event timing. In contrast, a positive feedback mechanism provides the highest precision in timing for an unstable protein. These theoretical results explain recent experimental observations of single-cell lysis times in bacteriophage \u03bb. Here, lysis of an infected bacterial cell is orchestrated by the expression and accumulation of a stable \u03bb protein up to a threshold, and precision in timing is achieved via feedforward, rather than feedback control. Our results have broad implications for diverse cellular processes that rely on precise temporal triggering of events.', u'/content/early/2016/06/03/056945', [u'Biophysics'], [u'University of Delaware;', u'City University of New York']]
[u'The evolutionary basis of premature migration in Pacific salmon highlights the utility of genomics for informing conservation', ['Daniel J Prince', "Sean M O'Rourke", 'Tasha Q Thompson', 'Omar A Ali', 'Martha Arciniega', 'Hannah S Lyman', 'Ismail K Saglam', 'Anthony J Clemento', 'Thomas J Hotaling', 'Andrew P Kinziger', 'Adrian P Spidle', 'John Carlos Garza', 'Devon E Pearse', 'Michael R Miller'], u'June 3, 2016.', u'The delineation of conservation units (CUs) is a challenging issue that has profound implications for minimizing the loss of biodiversity and ecosystem services. CU delineation typically seeks to prioritize evolutionary significance and genetic methods play a pivotal role in the delineation process by quantifying overall differentiation between populations. While CUs that primarily reflect overall genetic differentiation do protect adaptive differences between distant populations, they do not necessarily protect adaptive variation within highly connected populations. Advances in genomic methodology facilitate the characterization of adaptive genetic variation, but the potential utility of this information for CU delineation is unclear. Here we use genomic methods to investigate the evolutionary basis of premature migration in Pacific salmon, a complex behavioral and physiological adaptation that exists within highly-connected populations and has experienced severe declines. Strikingly, we find that premature migration is associated with the same single locus across multiple populations in each of two different species. Patterns of variation at this locus suggest that the premature migration alleles arose from a single evolutionary event within each species and were subsequently spread to distant populations through straying and positive selection. Our results reveal that complex adaptive variation can depend on rare mutational events at a single locus, demonstrate that CUs reflecting overall genetic differentiation can fail to protect evolutionarily significant variation that has substantial ecological and societal benefits, and suggest that a supplemental framework for protecting specific adaptive variation will sometimes be necessary to prevent the loss of significant biodiversity and ecosystem services.', u'/content/early/2016/06/03/056853', [u'Genetics'], [u'Department of Animal Science, University of California, Davis, CA, USA;', u'Southwest Fisheries Science Center, National Marine Fisheries Service, Santa Cruz, CA, USA;', u'Salmon River Restoration Council, Sawyers Bar, CA, USA;', u'Department of Fisheries Biology, Humboldt State University, Arcata, CA, USA;', u'Northwest Indian Fisheries Commission, Olympia, WA, USA']]
[u'Spatial capture-recapture with partial identity: an application to camera traps', ['Ben Augustine', 'J. Andrew Royle', 'Marcella Kelly', 'Christopher Satter', 'Robert Alonso', 'Erin Boydston', 'Kevin Crooks'], u'June 3, 2016.', u'Camera trapping surveys frequently capture individuals whose identity is only known from a single flank. The most widely used methods for incorporating these partial identity individuals into density analyses do not use all of the partial identity capture histories, reducing precision, and while not previously recognized, introducing bias. Here, we present the spatial partial identity model (SPIM), which uses the spatial location where partial identity samples are captured to probabilistically resolve their complete identities, allowing all partial identity samples to be used in the analysis. We show that the SPIM out-performs other analytical alternatives. We then apply the SPIM to an ocelot data set collected on a trapping array with double-camera stations and a bobcat data set collected on a trapping array with single-camera stations. The SPIM improves inference in both cases and in the ocelot example, individual sex determined from photographs is used to further resolve partial identities, one of which is resolved to near certainty. The SPIM opens the door for the investigation of trapping designs that deviate from the standard 2 camera design, the combination of other data types between which identities cannot be deterministically linked, and can be extended to the problem of partial genotypes.', u'/content/early/2016/06/03/056804', [u'Ecology'], [u'Virginia Tech;', u'U.S. Geological Survey;', u'Colorado State University']]
[u'The Human Octopus: controlling supernumerary hands with the help of virtual reality', ['Sander Kulu', 'Madis Vasser', 'Jaan Aru', 'Raul Vicente Zafra'], u'June 3, 2016.', u'We investigated the "human octopus" phenomenon where subjects controlled virtual supernumerary hands through hand tracking technology and virtual reality. Four experiments were developed to study how subjects (n=10) operate with different number and behaviour of supernumerary hands. The behaviours involved inserting movement delays to the virtual hands and adjusting their movement scale or position. It was found that having more hands to operate with does not necessarily mean higher success rate while performing a certain task. However, supernumerary hands could be made more effective by adjusting the associated movement scales of the extra hands. The subjective feeling and ownership of the hands diminished when a delay was inserted for the virtual hands or when their position was altered.', u'/content/early/2016/06/03/056812', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Institute of Computer Science, University of Tartu;', u'University of Tartu;', u'Institute for Computer Science, University of Tartu']]
[u'Identification of microsporidia host-exposed proteins reveals a repertoire of large paralogous gene families and rapidly evolving proteins', ['Aaron W Reinke', 'Keir M Balla', 'Eric J Bennett', 'Emily R Troemel'], u'June 3, 2016.', u"Pathogens use a variety of secreted and surface proteins to interact with and manipulate their hosts, but a systematic approach for identifying such proteins has been lacking. To identify these 'host-exposed' proteins, we used spatially restricted enzymatic tagging followed by mass spectrometry analysis of C. elegans infected with two species of Nematocida microsporidia. We identified 82 microsporidia proteins inside of intestinal cells, including several pathogen proteins in the nucleus. These microsporidia proteins are enriched in targeting signals, are rapidly evolving, and belong to large, Nematocida-specific gene families. We also find that large, species-specific families are common throughout microsporidia species. Our data suggest that the use of a large number of rapidly evolving species-specific proteins represents a common strategy for these intracellular pathogens to interact with their hosts. The unbiased method described here for identifying potential pathogen effectors represents a powerful approach for the study of a broad range of pathogens.", u'/content/early/2016/06/03/056788', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of California San Diego']]
[u'Predicting future learning from baseline network architecture', ['Marcelo Mattar', 'Nicholas F Wymbs', 'Andrew S Bock', 'Geoffrey K Aguirre', 'Scott T Grafton', 'Danielle S Bassett'], u'June 3, 2016.', u"Human behavior and cognition result from a complex pattern of interactions between brain regions. The flexible reconfiguration of these patterns enables behavioral adaptation, such as the acquisition of a new motor skill. Yet, the degree to which these reconfigurations depend on the brain's baseline sensorimotor integration is far from understood. Here, we asked whether spontaneous fluctuations in sensorimotor networks at baseline were predictive of individual differences in future learning. We collected functional MRI data from 22 participants prior to six weeks of training on a new motor skill. We found that visual-motor connectivity was inversely related to learning rate: sensorimotor autonomy at baseline corresponded to faster learning in the future. Using three additional scans, we found that visual-motor connectivity at baseline is a relatively stable individual trait. These results demonstrate that individual differences in motor skill learning can be reliably predicted from sensorimotor autonomy at baseline prior to task execution.", u'/content/early/2016/06/03/056861', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Pennsylvania;', u'Johns Hopkins Medical Institution;', u'University of California, Santa Barbara']]
