[u'CH\xb7\xb7\xb7O Interactions Are Not the Cause of Trends in Reactivity and Secondary Kinetic Isotope Effects for Enzymatic SN2 Methyl Transfer Reactions', ['Jianyu Zhang', 'Judith P. Klinman'], u'September 1, 2016.', u'Compaction matters: SN2 substitution represents an important class of reaction for both chemical and biological systems.  The ability to assess enzymatic transition state structure within this class of reaction remains a major experimental challenge. Here, we comment on and compare the relative impact of compaction along the axis of reaction to the impact of an orthogonal CH\xb7\xb7\xb7O hydrogen bonding interaction. The latter is concluded to play a limited role in determining relative reaction rates and secondary KIEs derived from experimental structure- activity correlations.', u'/content/early/2016/09/01/071043', [], [u'University of California, Berkeley;', u'University of California, Berkeley, California']]
[u'Genome-wide association and HLA region fine-mapping studies identify susceptibility loci for multiple common infections', ['Chao Tian', 'David A. Hinds', 'Bethann S. Hromatka', 'Amy K Kiefer', 'Nicholas Eriksson', 'Joyce Y. Tung'], u'September 1, 2016.', u'We performed 23 genome-wide association studies for common infections, including chickenpox, shingles, cold sores, mononucleosis, mumps, hepatitis B, plantar warts, positive tuberculosis test results, strep throat, scarlet fever, pneumonia, bacterial meningitis, yeast infections, urinary tract infections, tonsillectomy, childhood ear infections, myringotomy, measles, hepatitis A, rheumatic fever, common colds, rubella and chronic sinus infection, in more than 200,000 individuals of European ancestry. For the first time, genome-wide significant associations (P < 5 x 10-8) were identified for many common infections. The associations were mapped to genes with key roles in acquired and innate immunity (HLA, IFNA21, FUT2, ST3GAL4, ABO, IFNL4, LCE3E, DSG1, LTBR, MTMR3, TNFRSF13B, TNFSF13B, NFKB1, CD40) and in regulation of embryonic developmental process (TBX1, FGF, FOXA1 and FOXN1 etc). Several missense mutations were also identified (in LCE5A, DSG1, FUT2, TBX1, CDHR3, PLG, TNFRSF13B, FOXA1, SH2B3, ST5 and FOXN1). Missense mutations in FUT2 and TBX1 were implicated in multiple infections. We applied fine-mapping analysis to dissect associations in the human leukocyte antigen region, which suggested important roles of specific amino acid polymorphisms in the antigen-binding clefts. Our findings provide an important step toward dissecting the host genetic architecture of response to common infections.', u'/content/early/2016/09/01/073056', [], [u'23andMe, Inc;', u'23andMe, Inc.']]
[u'Selection on heterozygosity drives adaptation in intra- and interspecific hybrids', ['Caiti S. Smukowski Heil', 'Christopher G. DeSevo', 'Dave A. Pai', 'Cheryl M. Tucker', 'Margaret L. Hoang', 'Maitreya J. Dunham'], u'September 1, 2016.', u'Hybridization is often considered maladaptive, but sometimes hybrids can invade new ecological niches and adapt to novel or stressful environments better than their parents. However, the genomic changes that occur following hybridization and facilitate genome resolution and/or adaptation are not well understood. Here, we address these questions using experimental evolution of de novo interspecific hybrid yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae x Saccharomyces uvarum and their parentals.  We evolved these strains in nutrient limited conditions for hundreds of generations and sequenced the resulting cultures to identify genomic changes.  Analysis of 16 hybrid clones and 16 parental clones identified numerous point mutations, copy number changes, and loss of heterozygosity events, including a number of nuclear-mitochondrial mutations and species biased amplification of nutrient transporters. We focused on a particularly interesting example, in which we saw repeated loss of heterozygosity at the high affinity phosphate transporter gene PHO84 in both intra- and interspecific hybrids. Using allele replacement methods, we tested the fitness of different alleles in hybrid and S. cerevisiae strain backgrounds and found that the loss of heterozygosity is indeed the result of selection on one allele over the other in both S. cerevisiae and the hybrids. This illuminates an example where hybrid genome resolution is driven by positive selection on existing heterozygosity, and generally demonstrates that outcrossing need not be frequent to have long lasting impacts on adaptation.', u'/content/early/2016/09/01/073007', [], [u'University of Washington;', u'Princeton University;', u'Carnegie Institution']]
[u'MUSCLES OF FACIAL EXPRESSION IN EXTINCT SPECIES OF THE GENUS HOMO', ['Arturo Tozzi'], u'September 1, 2016.', u"We display a detailed description of mimetic muscles in extinct human species, framed in comparative and phylogenetic contexts.  Using known facial landmarks, we assessed the arrangement of muscles of facial expression in Homo sapiens, neanderthalensis, erectus, heidelbergensis and ergaster.  In modern humans, several perioral muscles are proportionally smaller in size (levator labii superioris, zygomaticus minor, zygomaticus major and triangularis) and/or located more medially (levator labii superioris, zygomaticus minor and quadratus labii inferioris) than in other human species.  As mimetic musculature is examined in the most ancient specimens up to the most recent, there is a general trend towards an increase in size of corrugator supercillii and triangularis.  Homo ergaster's mimetic musculature closely resembles modern Homo, both in size and in location; furthermore, Homo erectus and Homo neanderthalensis share many muscular features.  The extinct human species had an elaborate and highly graded facial communication system, but it remained qualitatively different from that reported in modern Homo.  Compared with other human species, Homo sapiens clearly exhibits a lower degree of facial expression, possibly correlated with more sophisticated social behaviours and with enhanced speech capabilities.  The presence of anatomical variation among species of the genus Homo raises important questions about the possible taxonomic value of mimetic muscles.", u'/content/early/2016/09/01/072884', [], [u'University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada']]
[u'Activity of the C. elegans egg-laying behavior circuit is controlled\nby competing activation and feedback inhibition', ['Kevin Collins', 'Addys Bode', 'Robert W. Fernandez', 'Jessica E. Tanis', 'Jacob Brewer', 'Matthew Creamer', 'Michael R. Koelle'], u'September 1, 2016.', u'Like many behaviors, Caenorhabditis elegans egg laying alternates between inactive and active states. To understand how the underlying neural circuit turns the behavior on and off, we optically recorded circuit activity in behaving animals while manipulating circuit function using mutations, optogenetics, and drugs. In the active state, the circuit shows rhythmic activity phased with the body bends of locomotion. The serotonergic HSN command neurons initiate the active state, but accumulation of unlaid eggs also promotes the active state independent of the HSNs. The cholinergic VC motor neurons slow locomotion during egg-laying muscle contraction and egg release. The uv1 neuroendocrine cells mechanically sense passage of eggs through the vulva and release tyramine to inhibit egg laying, in part via the LGC-55 tyramine-gated Cl- channel on the HSNs. Our results identify discrete signals that entrain or detach the circuit from the locomotion central pattern generator to produce active and inactive states.', u'/content/early/2016/09/01/073049', [], [u'University of Miami;', u'Yale University']]
[u'The House Fly Y Chromosome is Young and Undifferentiated from its Ancient X Chromosome Partner', ['Richard Meisel', 'Christopher A Gonzales', 'Hoang Luu'], u'September 1, 2016.', u'Ancient or canonical sex chromosome pairs consist of a gene rich X (or Z) chromosome and a male- (or female-) limited Y (or W) chromosome that is gene poor. In contrast to highly differentiated sex chromosomes, nascent sex chromosome pairs are homomorphic or very similar in sequence content. Nascent sex chromosomes arise frequently over the course of evolution, as evidenced by differences in sex chromosomes between closely related species and sex chromosome polymorphisms within species. Sex chromosome turnover typically occurs when an existing sex chromosome becomes fused to an autosome or an autosome acquires a new sex-determining locus/allele. Previously documented sex chromosome transitions involve changes to both members of the sex chromosome pair (X and Y, or Z and W). The house fly has sex chromosomes that resembles the ancestral fly karyotype that originated ~100 million years ago, and therefore house fly is expected to have differentiated X and Y chromosomes. We tested this hypothesis using whole genome sequencing and transcriptomic data, and we surprisingly discovered little evidence for X-Y differentiation in house fly. We propose that house fly has retained the ancient X chromosome, but the ancestral Y was replaced by an X chromosome carrying a male determining gene. In this evolutionary scenario, the house fly has an ancient X chromosome that is partnered with with a neo-Y chromosome. This example of sex chromosome recycling illustrates how one member of a sex chromosome pair can experience evolutionary turnover while the other member remains unaffected.', u'/content/early/2016/09/01/073023', [], [u'University of Houston']]
[u'CIViC: A knowledgebase for expert-crowdsourcing the clinical interpretation of variants in cancer.', ['Malachi Griffith', 'Nicholas C Spies', 'Kilannin Krysiak', 'Adam C Coffman', 'Joshua F McMichael', 'Benjamin J Ainscough', 'Damian T Rieke', 'Arpad M Danos', 'Lynzey Kujan', 'Cody A Ramirez', 'Alex H Wagner', 'Zachary L Skidmore', 'Connor J Liu', 'Martin R Jones', 'Rachel L Bilski', 'Robert Lesurf', 'Erica K Barnell', 'Nakul M Shah', 'Melika Bonakdar', 'Lee Trani', 'Matthew Matlock', 'Avinash Ramu', 'Katie M Campbell', 'Gregory C Spies', 'Aaron P Graubert', 'Karthik Gangavarapu', 'James M Eldred', 'David E Larson', 'Jason R Walker', 'Benjamin M Good', 'Chunlei Wu', 'Andrew I Su', 'Rodrigo Dienstmann', 'Steven JM Jones', 'Ron Bose', 'David H Spencer', 'Lukas D Wartman', 'Richard K Wilson', 'Elaine R Mardis', 'Obi L Griffith'], u'September 1, 2016.', u'CIViC is an expert crowdsourced knowledgebase for Clinical Interpretation of Variants in Cancer (www.civicdb.org) describing the therapeutic, prognostic, and diagnostic relevance of inherited and somatic variants of all types. CIViC is committed to open source code, open access content, public application programming interfaces (APIs), and provenance of supporting evidence to allow for the transparent creation of current and accurate variant interpretations for use in cancer precision medicine.', u'/content/early/2016/09/01/072892', [], [u'McDonnell Genome Institute;', u'Charite Comprehensive Cancer Center;', u'Michael Smith Genome Sciences Centre;', u'The Scripps Research Institute;', u"Vall d'Hebron Institute of Oncology;", u'Washington University School of Medicine']]
[u'Natural Variation in Arabidopsis Cvi-0 Accession Uncovers Regulation of Guard Cell CO2 Signaling by MPK12', ['Liina Jakobson', 'Lauri Vaahtera', 'Kadri Toldsepp', 'Maris Nuhkat', 'Cun Wang', 'Yuh-Shuh Wang', 'Hanna Horak', 'Ervin Valk', 'Priit Pechter', 'Yana Sindarovska', 'Jing Tang', 'Chuanlei Xiao', 'Yang Xu', 'Ulvi Gerst Talas', 'Maido Remm', 'Saijaliisa Kangasjarvi', 'M. Rob G. Roelfsema', 'Honghong Hu', 'Jaakko Kangasjarvi', 'Mart Loog', 'Julian I. Schroeder', 'Hannes Kollist', 'Mikael Brosche'], u'September 1, 2016.', u'Plant gas exchange is regulated by guard cells that form stomatal pores. Stomatal adjustments are crucial for plant survival; they regulate uptake of CO2 for photosynthesis, loss of water and entrance of air pollutants such as ozone. We mapped ozone hypersensitivity, more open stomata and stomatal CO2-insensitivity phenotypes of the Arabidopsis thaliana accession Cvi-0 to a single amino acid substitution in MAP kinase 12 (MPK12). In parallel we showed that stomatal CO2-insensitivity phenotypes of a mutant cis (CO2-insensitive) were caused by a deletion of MPK12. Lack of MPK12 impaired bicarbonate-induced activation of S-type anion channels. We demonstrated that MPK12 interacted with the protein kinase HT1, a central node in guard cell CO2 signaling, and that MPK12 can function as an inhibitor of HT1. These data provide a new function for plant MPKs as protein kinase inhibitors and suggest a mechanism through which guard cell CO2 signaling controls plant water management.', u'/content/early/2016/09/01/073015', [], [u'University of Tartu;', u'University of Helsinki;', u'University of California San Diego;', u'Huazhong Agricultural University;', u'University of Turku;', u'University of W\xfcrzburg']]
[u'eIF3 plays distinct roles at the mRNA entry and exit channels of the ribosomal preinitiation complex', ['Colin Echeverria Aitken', 'Petra Beznoskova', 'Vladislav Vlckova', 'Wen-Ling Chiu', 'Fujun Zhou', 'Leos Shivaya Valasek', 'Alan G Hinnebusch', 'Jon R Lorsch'], u'September 1, 2016.', u'Eukaryotic translation initiation factor 3 (eIF3) is a central player in recruitment of the pre-initiation complex (PIC) to mRNA. We probed the effects on mRNA recruitment of a library of S. cerevisiae eIF3 functional variants spanning its 5 essential subunits using an in vitro-reconstituted system. Mutations throughout eIF3 disrupt its interaction with the PIC and diminish its ability to accelerate recruitment to a native yeast mRNA. Alterations to the eIF3a CTD and eIF3b/i/g significantly slow mRNA recruitment, and mutations within eIF3b/i/g destabilize eIF2\xb7GTP\xb7Met-tRNAi binding to the PIC. Using model mRNAs lacking contacts with the 40S entry or exit channels, we uncover a critical role for eIF3 requiring the eIF3a NTD, in stabilizing mRNA interactions at the exit channel, and an ancillary role at the entry channel requiring residues of the eIF3a CTD. These functions are redundant: defects at each channel can be rescued by filling the other channel with mRNA.', u'/content/early/2016/09/01/072702.1', [], [u'NICHD/National Institutes of Health;', u'Institute of Microbiology ASCR, Prague, Czech Republic']]
[u'Perpendicular axes of incipient speciation generated by mitochondrial introgression', ['Hernan E Morales', 'Paul Sunnucks', 'Leo Joseph', 'Alexandra Pavlova'], u'September 1, 2016.', u'Differential introgression of mitochondrial versus nuclear DNA generates discordant patterns of geographic variation and can promote speciation. We examined a potential case of mitochondrial introgression leading to two perpendicular axes of differentiation. The Eastern Yellow Robin, a widespread Australian bird, shows a deep mitochondrial split that is perpendicular to north-south nuclear DNA and plumage colour differentiation. We proposed a scenario to explain this pattern: (1) the two nuclear and mitochondrial genomes differentiated in concert during north-south population divergence; (2) later, their histories disconnected after two mitochondrial introgression events resulting in a deep mitochondrial split perpendicular to the nuclear DNA structure. We tested this scenario by coalescent modelling of ten mitochondrial genes and 400 nuclear DNA loci. Initial mitochondrial and nuclear genome divergences were estimated to have occurred in the early Pleistocene, consistent with the proposed scenario. Subsequent climatic transitions may have driven later mitochondrial introgression. We reject neutral introgression and consider evidence consistent with adaptive mitochondrial introgression and selection against incompatible mitochondrial-nuclear combinations. This likely generated an axis of incipient speciation associated with mitochondrial differentiation in the face of nuclear gene flow, perpendicular to the initial north-south axis of incipient speciation (reflected in nuclear differentiation and colour variation).', u'/content/early/2016/09/01/072942', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Monash University;', u'Australian National Wildlife Collection, CSIRO National Research Collections Australia']]
[u'Regions of very low H3K27me3 partition the Drosophila genome into topological domains', ['Sherif El-Sharnouby', 'Bettina Fischer', 'Jose Paolo Magbanua', 'Benjamin Umans', 'Rosalyn Flower', 'Siew Woh Choo', 'Steven Russell', 'Rob White'], u'September 1, 2016.', u'It is now well established that eukaryote genomes have a common architectural organization into topologically associated domains (TADs) and evidence is accumulating that this organization plays an important role in gene regulation. However, the mechanisms that partition the genome into TADs and the nature of domain boundaries are still poorly understood.\n\nWe have investigated boundary regions in the Drosophila genome and find that they can be identified as domains of very low H3K27me3. The genome-wide H3K27me3 profile partitions into two states; very low H3K27me3 identifies Depleted (D) domains that contain housekeeping genes and their regulators such as the histone acetyltransferase-containing NSL complex, whereas domains containing mid-to-high levels of H3K27me3 (Enriched or E domains) are associated with regulated genes, irrespective of whether they are active or inactive. The D domains correlate with the boundaries of TADs and are enriched in a subset of architectural proteins, particularly Chromator, BEAF-32, and Z4/Putzig. However, rather than being clustered at the borders of these domains, these proteins bind throughout the H3K27me3-depleted regions and are much more strongly associated with the transcription start sites of housekeeping genes than with the H3K27me3 domain boundaries.\n\nWe suggest that the D domain chromatin state, characterised by very low H3K27me3 and established by housekeeping gene regulators, acts to separate topological domains thereby setting up the domain architecture of the genome.', u'/content/early/2016/09/01/072900', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Cambridge;', u'University of Malaya']]
[u'Selective constraints on coding sequences of nervous system genes are a major determinant of duplicate gene retention in vertebrates', ['Julien Roux', 'Jialin Liu', 'Marc Robinson-Rechavi'], u'September 1, 2016.', u'The evolutionary history of vertebrates is marked by three ancient whole-genome duplications: two successive rounds in the ancestor of vertebrates, and a third one specific to teleost fishes. Biased loss of most duplicates enriched the genome for specific genes, such as slow evolving genes, but this selective retention process is not well understood.\nTo understand what drives the long term preservation of duplicate genes, we characterized duplicated genes in terms of their expression patterns. We used a new method of expression enrichment analysis, TopAnat, applied to in situ hybridization data from thousands of genes from zebrafish and mouse. We showed that the presence of expression in the nervous system is a good predictor of a higher rate of retention of duplicate genes after whole-genome duplication.\nFurther analyses suggest that purifying selection against protein misfolding, which is particularly strong in non-renewing neural tissues, likely constrains the evolution of coding sequences of nervous system genes, leading indirectly to the preservation of duplicate genes after whole-genome duplication. Whole-genome duplications thus greatly contributed to the expansion of the toolkit of genes available for the evolution of profound novelties of the nervous system at the base of the vertebrate radiation.', u'/content/early/2016/09/01/072959', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Lausanne']]
[u'Integrating gene expression with summary association statistics to identify susceptibility genes for 30 complex traits', ['Nicholas Mancuso', 'Huwenbo Shi', 'Page Goddard', 'Gleb Kichaev', 'Alexander Gusev', 'Bogdan Pasaniuc'], u'September 1, 2016.', u'Although genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have identified thousands of risk loci for\nmany complex traits and diseases, the causal variants and genes at these loci remain largely\nunknown. We leverage recently introduced methods to integrate gene expression measurements\nfrom 45 expression panels with summary GWAS data to perform 30 transcriptome-wide\nassociation studies (TWASs). We identify 1,196 susceptibility genes whose expression is\nassociated with these traits; of these, 168 reside more than 0.5Mb away from any previously\nreported GWAS significant variant, thus providing new risk loci. Second, we find 43 pairs of\ntraits with significant genetic correlation at the level of predicted expression; of these, 8 are not\nfound through genetic correlation at the SNP level. Third, we use bi-directional regression to\nfind evidence for BMI causally influencing triglyceride levels, and triglyceride levels causally\ninfluencing LDL. Taken together, our results provide insights into the role of expression to\nsusceptibility of complex traits and diseases.', u'/content/early/2016/09/01/072967', [u'Genetics'], [u'David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California at Los Angeles;', u'University of California Los Angeles;', u'University of California, Los Angeles;', u'Harvard School of Public Health']]
[u'Regulation of cancer epigenomes with a histone-binding synthetic transcription factor', ['Karmella A. Haynes', 'David B. Nyer', 'Daniel Vargas', 'Caroline Hom'], u'September 1, 2016.', u'Chromatin proteins have expanded the mammalian synthetic biology toolbox by enabling control of active and silenced states at endogenous genes. Others have reported synthetic proteins that bind DNA and regulate genes by altering chromatin marks, such as histone modifications. Previously we reported the first synthetic transcriptional activator, the "Polycomb-based transcription factor" (PcTF), that reads histone modifications through a protein-protein interaction between the PCD motif and trimethylated lysine 27 of histone H3 (H3K27me3). Here, we describe the genome-wide behavior of PcTF. Transcriptome and chromatin profiling revealed PcTF-sensitive promoter regions marked by proximal PcTF and distal H3K27me3 binding. These results illuminate a mechanism in which PcTF interactions bridge epigenetic marks with the transcription initiation complex. In three cancer-derived human cell lines tested here, many PcTF-sensitive genes encode developmental regulators and tumor suppressors. Thus, PcTF represents a powerful new fusion-protein-based method for cancer research and treatment where silencing marks are translated into direct gene activation.', u'/content/early/2016/09/01/072975', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'Arizona State University']]
[u'Contig annotation tool CAT robustly classifies assembled metagenomic contigs and long sequences', ['Diego D. Cambuy', 'Felipe H. Coutinho', 'Bas E. Dutilh'], u'September 1, 2016.', u'In modern-day metagenomics, there is an increasing need for robust taxonomic annotation of long DNA sequences from unknown micro-organisms. Long metagenomic sequences may be derived from assembly of short-read metagenomes, or from long-read single molecule sequencing. Here we introduce CAT, a pipeline for robust taxonomic classification of long DNA sequences. We show that CAT correctly classifies contigs at different taxonomic levels, even in simulated metagenomic datasets that are very distantly related from the sequences in the database. CAT is implemented in Python and the required scripts can be freely downloaded from Github.', u'/content/early/2016/09/01/072868', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Utrecht University;', u'Federal University of Rio de Janeiro']]
[u'Dissecting the genetics of complex traits using summary association statistics', ['Bogdan Pasaniuc', 'Alkes L Price'], u'September 1, 2016.', u'During the past decade, genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have successfully identified tens of thousands of genetic variants associated with complex traits and diseases. These studies have produced vast repositories of genetic variation and trait measurements across millions of individuals, providing tremendous opportunities for further analyses. However, privacy concerns and other logistical considerations often limit access to individual-level genetic data, motivating the development of methods that analyze summary association statistics. Here we review recent progress on statistical methods that leverage summary association data to gain insights into the genetic basis of complex traits and diseases.', u'/content/early/2016/09/01/072934', [u'Genetics'], [u'UCLA;', u'Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health']]
[u'Quorum sensing modulatory effect of sound stimulation on Serratia marcescens and Pseudomonas aeruginosa', ['Vijay Kothari', 'Pooja Patel', 'Chinmayi Joshi', 'Brijesh Mishra', 'Shashikant Dubey', 'Milan Mehta'], u'September 1, 2016.', u'Effect of nine different mono-frequency sound stimuli on two gram-negative bacteria (Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Serratia marcescens) was investigated. Frequency of the test sound ranged from 100 Hz to 2,000 Hz. Both the test bacteria responded differently to sonic stimulation. Sound corresponding to 600 HZ caused a notable reduction in quorum sensing (QS) regulated production of the pigment pyoverdine by P. aeruginosa. 400 Hz sound affected prodigiosin production by S. marcescens the most. 500 Hz sound could enhance prodigiosin production without affecting growth of the producing bacterium, suggesting the effect purely to be QS modulatory. This study has demonstrated the capacity of the sound waves of affecting bacterial growth and quorum sensing regulated metabolite production.', u'/content/early/2016/09/01/072850', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Nirma University']]
[u'Genes mirror migrations and cultures in prehistoric Europe - a population genomic perspective', ['Torsten Gunther', 'Mattias Jakobsson'], u'September 1, 2016.', u"Genomic information from ancient human remains is beginning to show its full potential for learning about human prehistory. We review the last few years' dramatic finds about European prehistory based on genomic data from humans that lived many millennia ago and relate it to modern-day patterns of genomic variation. The early times, the Upper Palaeolithic, appears to contain several population turn-overs followed by more stable populations after the Last Glacial Maximum and during the Mesolithic. Some 11,000 years ago the migrations driving the Neolithic transition start from around Anatolia and reach the north and the west of Europe millennia later followed by major migrations during the Bronze age. These findings show that culture and lifestyle were major determinants of genomic differentiation and similarity in pre-historic Europe rather than geography as is the case today.", u'/content/early/2016/09/01/072926', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Uppsala University;', u'Uppsala Universitet']]
[u'Schizophrenia and human self-domestication: a linguistic approach', ['Antonio Benitez-Burraco', 'Wanda Lattanzi'], u'August 31, 2016.', u'Schizophrenia (SZ) is a pervasive neurodevelopmental disorder entailing social and cognitive deficits, including marked problems with language. SZ incidence has always been high and quite stable in human populations, across time and regardless of cultural implications, due to unclear reasons. Also, its complex multifactorial aetiopathogenesis, including genetic and environmental factors, is widely uncertain. It has been hypothesised that SZ pathophysiology may involve the biological components that changed during the recent human evolutionary history and led to our distinctive mode of cognition, which includes language skills. In this paper we explore this possibility, focusing on the self-domestication of the human species. This has been claimed to account for many human-specific distinctive traits, including aspects of our linguistic abilities. The domestication syndrome in mammals comprises the constellation of traits exhibited by domesticated strains, seemingly resulting from the hypofunction of the neural crest. It is our intention to show that people with SZ exhibit more marked domesticated traits at the morphological, physiological, and behavioural levels. We also show that many SZ candidate genes are found among the genes involved in the domestication syndrome, but also among genes implicated in language evolution. Finally, we show that selected genes important for the neural crest development exhibit altered expression profiles in the brain of SZ patients, specifically in areas involved in language processing. Based on these observations, we conclude that language dysfunction in SZ may represent an abnormal ontogenetic itinerary for the human faculty of language, resulting, at least in part, from changes in genes important for the domestication syndrome and, primarily involving the neural crest.', u'/content/early/2016/08/31/072751', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Huelva;', u'Universita Cattolica del Sacro Cuore']]
[u'Major host transitions are modulated through transcriptome-wide reprograming events in Schistocephalus solidus, a threespine stickleback parasite', ['Francois-Olivier Hebert', 'Stephan Grambauer', 'Iain Barber', 'Christian Landry', 'Nadia Aubin-Horth'], u'August 31, 2016.', u"Parasites with complex life cycles have developed numerous phenotypic strategies, closely associated with developmental events, to enable the exploitation of different ecological niches and facilitate transmission between hosts. How these environmental shifts are regulated from a metabolic and physiological standpoint, however, still remain to be fully elucidated. We examined the transcriptomic response of Schistocephalus solidus, a trophically-transmitted parasite with a complex life cycle, over the course of its development in an intermediate host, the threespine stickleback, and the final avian host. Results from our differential gene expression analysis show major reprogramming events among developmental stages. The final host stage is characterized by a strong activation of reproductive pathways and redox homeostasis. The attainment of infectivity in the fish intermediate host - which precedes sexual maturation in the final host and is associated with host behaviour changes - is marked by transcription of genes involved in neural pathways and sensory perception. Our results suggest that un-annotated and S. solidus-specific genes could play a determinant role in host-parasite molecular interactions required to complete the parasite's life cycle. Our results permit future comparative analyses to help disentangle species-specific patterns of infection from conserved mechanisms, ultimately leading to a better understanding of the molecular control and evolution of complex life cycles.", u'/content/early/2016/08/31/072769', [u'Genomics'], [u'Universite Laval;', u'University of Leicester']]
[u'A novel ENU-induced ankyrin-1 mutation impairs parasite invasion and increases erythrocyte clearance during malaria infection in mice', ['Hong Ming Huang', 'Denis Bauer', 'Patrick Lelliott', 'Andreas Greth', 'Brendan McMorran', 'Simon Foote', 'Gaetan Burgio'], u'August 31, 2016.', u"Genetic defects in various red blood cell (RBC) cytoskeletal proteins have been long associated with changes in susceptibility towards malaria infection. In particular, while  ankyrin (Ank-1) mutations account for approximately 50% of hereditary spherocytosis (HS) cases, an association with malaria is not well-established, and conflicting evidence has been reported. We describe a novel N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU)-induced ankyrin mutation MRI61689 that gives rise to two different ankyrin transcripts: one with an introduced splice acceptor site resulting a frameshift, the other with a skipped exon.  Ank-1(MRI61689/+) mice exhibit an HS-like phenotype including reduction in mean corpuscular volume (MCV), increased osmotic fragility and reduced RBC deformability. They were also found to be resistant to rodent malaria Plasmodium chabaudi infection. Parasites in Ank-1(MRI61689/+) erythrocytes grew normally, but red cells showed resistantance to merozoite invasion. Uninfected Ank-1(MRI61689/+) erythrocytes were also more likely to be cleared from circulation during infection; the 'bystander effect'. This increased clearance is a novel resistance mechanism which was not observed in previous ankyrin mouse models. We propose that this bystander effect is due to reduced deformability of Ank-1(MRI61689/+) erythrocytes. This paper highlights the complex roles ankyrin plays in mediating malaria resistance.", u'/content/early/2016/08/31/072587', [u'Microbiology'], [u'John Curtin School of Medical Research, the Australian National University;', u'CSIRO, Sydney, NSW, Australia.;', u'IFReC Research Building, Osaka University;', u'synaps studios GmbH, Brugg, Switzerland']]
[u'Effects of Pol II catalytic mutants on in vivo elongation rate, processivity, gene expression, mRNA decay and response to nucleotide depletion', ['Indranil Malik', 'Chenxi Qiu', 'Thomas Snavely', 'Craig D. Kaplan'], u'August 31, 2016.', u"Genetic and biochemical studies have identified RNA polymerase II (Pol II) activity mutants that alter catalysis, which we use as tools to investigate transcription mechanisms. Gene expression consequences due to altered Pol II activity in vivo are complex. We find that alteration of Pol II catalysis decreases Pol II occupancy and reporter gene expression in vivo. Both reduced and increased activity Pol II mutants lead to apparent reduction in elongation rate in vivo in a commonly used chromatin IP assay, and we identify a confounding variable affecting interpretation of this assay. Pol II mutant effects on gene expression are exacerbated with increased promoter strength and gene length. mRNA degradation rates for a reporter gene are altered in Pol II mutant strains, with magnitude of half-life increases correlating both with mutants' growth and gene expression defects. Prior work has suggested that altered Pol II elongation sensitizes cells to nucleotide depletion. We reexamine this hypothesis and find that Pol II activity mutants and several elongation factor mutants respond to GTP starvation similarly to wild type and that putative elongation defects are not likely to drive the cellular response to limiting GTP.", u'/content/early/2016/08/31/072785', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Texas A&M University']]
[u'Targeted reconstruction of T cell receptor sequence from single cell RNA-sequencing links CDR3 length to T cell differentiation state', ['Shaked Afik', 'Kathleen B Yates', 'Kevin Bi', 'Samuel Darko', 'Jernej Godec', 'Ulrike Gerdemann', 'Leo Swadling', 'Daniel C Douek', 'Paul Klenerman', 'Eleanor J Barnes', 'Arlene H Sharpe', 'W. Nicholas Haining', 'Nir Yosef'], u'August 31, 2016.', u'The T cell compartment must contain diversity in both TCR repertoire and cell state to provide effective immunity against pathogens. However, it remains unclear how differences in the TCR contribute to heterogeneity in T cell state at the single cell level because most analysis of the TCR repertoire has, to date, aggregated information from populations of cells. Single cell RNA-sequencing (scRNA-seq) can allow simultaneous measurement of TCR sequence and global transcriptional profile from single cells. However, current protocols to directly sequence the TCR require the use of long sequencing reads, increasing the cost and decreasing the number of cells that can be feasibly analyzed. Here we present a tool that can efficiently extract TCR sequence information from standard, short-read scRNA-seq libraries of T cells: TCR Reconstruction Algorithm for Paired-End Single cell (TRAPeS). We apply it to investigate heterogeneity in the CD8+ T cell response in humans and mice, and show that it is accurate and more sensitive than previous approaches. We applied TRAPeS to single cell RNA-seq of CD8+ T cells specific for a single epitope from Yellow Fever Virus. We show that the recently-described "naive-like" memory population of YFV-specific CD8+ T cells have significantly longer CDR3 regions and greater divergence from germline sequence than do effector-memory phenotype CD8+ T cells specific for YFV. This suggests that TCR usage contributes to heterogeneity in the differentiation state of the CD8+ T cell response to YFV. TRAPeS is publicly available, and can be readily used to investigate the relationship between the TCR repertoire and cellular phenotype.', u'/content/early/2016/08/31/072744', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'UC Berkeley;', u'Harvard Medical School;', u'NIAID, NIH;', u'University of Oxford']]
[u'Pleiotropy-robust Mendelian Randomization', ['Hans van Kippersluis', 'Cornelius A Rietveld'], u'August 31, 2016.', u'Background: The potential of Mendelian Randomization studies is rapidly expanding due to (i) the growing power of GWAS meta-analyses to detect genetic variants associated with several exposures, and (ii) the increasing availability of these genetic variants in large-scale surveys. However, without a proper biological understanding of the pleiotropic working of genetic variants, a fundamental assumption of Mendelian Randomization (the exclusion restriction) can always be contested.  Methods: We build upon and synthesize recent advances in the econometric literature on instrumental variables (IV) estimation that test and relax the exclusion restriction. Our Pleiotropy-robust Mendelian Randomization (PRMR) method first estimates the degree of pleiotropy, and in turn corrects for it. If a sample exists for which the genetic variants do not affect the exposure, and pleiotropic effects are homogenous, PRMR obtains unbiased estimates of causal effects in case of pleiotropy.  Results: Simulations show that existing MR methods produce biased estimators for realistic forms of pleiotropy. Under the aforementioned assumptions, PRMR produces unbiased estimators. We illustrate the practical use of PRMR by estimating the causal effect of (i) cigarettes smoked per day on Body Mass Index (BMI); (ii) prostate cancer on self-reported health, and (iii) educational attainment on BMI in the UK Biobank data.  Conclusions: PRMR allows for instrumental variables that violate the exclusion restriction due to pleiotropy, and corrects for pleiotropy in the estimation of the causal effect. If the degree of pleiotropy is unknown, PRMR can still be used as a sensitivity analysis.', u'/content/early/2016/08/31/072603', [u'Genetics'], [u'Erasmus School of Economics']]
[u'An effect size distribution analysis of heart rate variability studies: Recommendations for reporting the magnitude of group differences', ['Daniel S Quintana'], u'August 31, 2016.', u"The calculation of heart rate variability (HRV) is a popular tool used to investigate differences in cardiac autonomic control between population samples. When interpreting effect sizes to quantify the magnitude of group differences, researchers typically use Cohen's guidelines of small (0.2), medium (0.5), and large (0.8) effects. However, these guidelines were only proposed for use when the effect size distribution (ESD) was unknown. Despite the availability of effect sizes from hundreds of HRV studies, researchers still largely rely on Cohen's guidelines to interpret effect sizes. This article describes an ESD analysis of 297 HRV effect sizes from case-control studies, revealing that the 25th, 50th, and 75th effect size percentiles correspond with effect sizes of 0.25, 0.5, and 0.84, respectively. The ESD for separate clinical groups are also presented. The data suggests that Cohen's guidelines underestimate the magnitude of small and large effect sizes for the body of HRV case-control research. Therefore, to better reflect observed HRV effect sizes, the data suggest that effect sizes of 0.25, 0.5, and 0.85 should be interpreted as small, medium, and large effects. Researchers are encouraged to use the ESD dataset or their own collected datasets in tandem with the provided analysis script to perform bespoke ESD analyses relevant to their specific research area.", u'/content/early/2016/08/31/072660', [u'Physiology'], [u'University of Oslo']]
[u'Behavioral tagging and the penumbra of learning', ['Samuel J Gershman'], u'August 31, 2016.', u'In noisy, dynamic environments, organisms must distinguish genuine change (e.g., the movement of prey) from noise (e.g., the rustling of leaves). Expectations should be updated only when the organism believes genuine change has occurred. Although individual variables can be highly unreliable, organisms can take advantage of the fact that changes tend to be correlated (e.g., movement of prey will tend to produce changes in both visual and olfactory modalities). Thus, observing a change in one variable provides information about the rate of change for other variables. We call this the penumbra of learning. At the neural level, the penumbra of learning may offer an explanation for why strong plasticity in one synapse can rescue weak plasticity at another (synaptic tagging and capture). At the behavioral level, it has been observed that weak learning of one task can be rescued by novelty exposure before or after the learning task. Here, using a simple number prediction task, we provide direct behavioral support for the penumbra of learning in humans, and show that it can be accounted for by a normative computational theory of learning.', u'/content/early/2016/08/31/072678', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'Harvard University']]
[u'Unraveling the differential dynamics of developmental fate in central and peripheral nervous systems', ['DOLA SENGUPTA', 'Sandip Kar'], u'August 31, 2016.', u'Bone morphogenetic protein 2 (BMP2), differentially regulates the developmental lineage commitment of neural stem cells (NSC) in central and peripheral nervous systems. However, the precise mechanism beneath such observations still remains illusive. To decipher the intricacies of this mechanism, we propose a generic mathematical model of BMP2 driven differentiation regulation of NSCs. The model efficiently captures the dynamics of the wild-type as well as various mutant and over-expression phenotypes for NSCs in central nervous system. Our model predicts that the differential developmental dynamics of the NSCs in peripheral nervous system can be reconciled by altering the relative positions of the two mutually interconnected bi-unstable switches inherently present in the steady state dynamics of the crucial developmental fate regulatory proteins as a function of BMP2 dose. This model thus provides a novel mechanistic insight and has the potential to deliver exciting therapeutic strategies for neuronal regeneration from NSCs of different origin.', u'/content/early/2016/08/31/072579', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'IIT BOMBAY']]
[u'dms2dfe: Comprehensive Workflow for Analysis of Deep Mutational Scanning Data', ['Rohan Dandage', 'Kausik Chakraborty'], u'August 31, 2016.', u'Deep Mutational Scanning is a robust method for massive scale assessments of genotypic variants and is being applied to wide domains of research. dms2dfe (Deep Mutational Scanning to Distribution of Fitness Effects) is a comprehensive computational workflow designed to streamline analysis of such data on the basis of evolutionary principles. dms2dfe assists in contextualizing data from Deep Mutational Scanning experiment in terms of Distribution of Fitness Effects which is a powerful indicator of evolutionary dynamics. In addition to estimations of preferential enrichments of experimentally determined mutations, dms2dfe utilizes a novel application of robust random forest modeling to infer of preferential enrichments of mutants which are not empirically determined. This helps to deduce biologically relevant interpretations from population level dynamics of DFEs across different experimental conditions by solving normalization issue and sampling bias. dms2dfe is available at https://github.com/kc-lab/dms2dfe .', u'/content/early/2016/08/31/072645', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative BIology;', u'CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi']]
[u'The Transcriptome of the Avian Malaria Parasite Plasmodium ashfordi Displays Host-Specific Gene Expression', ['Elin Videvall', 'Charlie K Cornwallis', 'Dag Ahren', 'Vaidas Palinauskas', 'Gediminas Valkiunas', 'Olof Hellgren'], u'August 31, 2016.', u"Malaria parasites (Plasmodium spp.) include some of the world's most widespread and virulent pathogens, infecting a wide array of vertebrates. Our knowledge of the molecular mechanisms these parasites use to invade and exploit hosts other than mice and primates is, however, extremely limited. How do Plasmodium adapt to individual hosts and to the immune response of hosts throughout an infection? To better understand parasite plasticity, and identify genes that are conserved across the phylogeny, it is imperative that we characterize transcriptome-wide gene expression from non-model malaria parasites in multiple host individuals. Here, we used high-throughput Illumina RNA-sequencing on blood from wild-caught Eurasian siskins experimentally infected with a clonal strain of the avian malaria parasite, Plasmodium ashfordi (lineage GRW2). By using a multi-step approach to filter out all host transcripts, we successfully assembled the blood-stage transcriptome of P. ashfordi. A total of 11 954 expressed parasite transcripts were identified, and 7 860 were annotated with protein information. We further quantified gene expression levels of all parasite transcripts across three hosts during two infection stages - peak and decreasing parasitemia. Interestingly, parasites from the same host during different infection stages displayed remarkably similar expression profiles, but show large differences across hosts. This indicates that P. ashfordi adjusts its gene expression to specific host individuals, but contrary to expectation does not markedly change expression across different stages of infection. Finally, we examined genome-wide sequence similarity between P. ashfordi and other apicomplexan species, and searched for candidate genes involved in red blood cell invasion. The majority of transcripts were most similar to the human parasite Plasmodium falciparum, and a large number of invasion genes were discovered, suggesting conserved red blood cell invasion strategies between mammalian and avian Plasmodium spp. The transcriptome of P. ashfordi and its host-specific gene expression over two infection stages advances our understanding of Plasmodium plasticity and will become a valuable resource as it allows for further studies analyzing gene evolution and comparisons of parasite gene expression.", u'/content/early/2016/08/31/072454', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Lund University;', u'Nature Research Centre']]
[u'Cost Effective Acoustic Monitoring of Biodiversity and Bird Populations in Kenya', ['Ciira wa Maina', 'David Muchiri', 'Peter Njoroge'], u'August 31, 2016.', u"With the increasing need to effectively monitor a growing number of ecosystems of interest due to risks posed to these ecosystems by human activity and climate change, novel approaches to biodiversity monitoring are needed. In this work we demonstrate the application of low cost acoustic recorders based on the Raspberry Pi microprocessor to biodiversity monitoring. The recorders are capable of capturing audio recordings from which we can compute acoustic indices of biodiversity and identify bird species of interest. We compare the acoustic indices of biodiversity and results of point counts aimed at determining bird species presence and find that the acoustic complexity index has a significant positive correlation to point count results. In addition, we show that the presence of the Hartlaub's Turaco, a ubiquitous species in montane forests in Kenya with a distinct call, can be automatically determined using recordings obtained using our setup. Montane species are of interest for long-term automatic monitoring since they are particularly vulnerable to the effects of climate change. Our system is able to deal with the large amounts of data generated by the acoustic recorders. The automatic screening of approximately five hours of recordings for presence of the Hartlaub's Turaco call is achieved in approximately three minutes representing a large time saving that makes use of audio recordings for species identification feasible.", u'/content/early/2016/08/31/072546', [u'Ecology'], [u'Dedan Kimathi University of Technology;', u'National Museums of Kenya']]
[u'Consistency of EEG source localization and connectivity estimates', ['Keyvan Mahjoory', 'Vadim V Nikulin', 'Loic Botrel', 'Klaus Linkenkaer-Hansen', 'Marco M Fato', 'Stefan Haufe'], u'August 31, 2016.', u'As the EEG inverse problem does not have a unique solution, the sources reconstructed from EEG and their connectivity properties depend on forward and inverse modeling parameters such as the choice of an anatomical template and electrical model, prior assumptions on the sources, and further implementational details. In order to use source connectivity analysis as a reliable research tool, there is a need for stability across a wider range of standard estimation routines. Using resting state EEG recordings of N=65 participants acquired within two studies, we present the first comprehensive assessment of the consistency of EEG source localization and functional/effective connectivity metrics across two anatomical templates (ICBM152 and Colin27), three electrical models (BEM, FEM and spherical harmonics expansions), three inverse methods (WMNE, eLORETA and LCMV), and three software implementations (Brainstorm, Fieldtrip and our own toolbox). While localizations were found to be relatively stable, considerable variability of connectivity metrics was observed between LCMV beamformer solutions on one hand and eLORETA/WMNE distributed inverse solutions on the other hand, but also across implementations of the same source reconstruction procedure  in different packages. To provide reliable findings in the face of the observed variability, we encourage verification of the obtained results using more than one source imaging procedure in future studies. \nOur results also show that while effective and functional connectivity are similarly consistent across different source reconstructions, effective connectivity is less reproducible than functional connectivity across participants. This finding may indicate that there are different phenotypes of directed brain communication patterns within resting state networks.', u'/content/early/2016/08/31/071597', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Genova;', u'Charite University Medicine Berlin;', u'University of Wuerzburg;', u'Center for Neurogenomics and Cognitive Research (CNCR), Amsterdam;', u'Technische Universitaet Berlin']]
[u'Population-genomic inference of the strength and timing of selection against gene flow', ['Simon Aeschbacher', 'Jessica Packard Selby', 'John H. Willis', 'Graham Coop'], u'August 31, 2016.', u'How strong is the natural selection that maintains species and locally adapted populations in the face of gene flow? To what extent is genomic divergence limited by gene flow? Here, we use DNA polymorphism data and the genome-wide variation in recombination rate to infer the strength and timing of selection, and the baseline level of gene flow under various demographic scenarios. To achieve this, we develop theory that merges the coalescent process with the concept of effective gene flow. The latter describes the reduction in gene flow at neutral loci due to divergent selection against maladapted immigrant alleles. This effect decreases with recombinational distance from the loci under selection, such that in regions of low recombination genetic divergence among populations is on average increased compared to regions of high recombination. Our inference procedure exploits this relationship  in a genome-wide aggregate manner. We validate our approach using individual-based simulations and apply it to two datasets from the yellow monkeyflower (Mimulus guttatus). First, we infer a strong signal of adaptive divergence in the face of gene flow between populations growing on and off phytotoxic serpentine soils. We show that the genome-wide intensity of this selection is not exceptional compared to what M. guttatus may usually experience when adapting to local conditions. Second, we quantify and date selection against introgression from the selfing sister species M. nasutus. Our study provides a theoretical framework that explicitly links genome-wide patterns of divergence and recombination with the underlying evolutionary mechanisms.', u'/content/early/2016/08/31/072736', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of California, Davis;', u'Duke University;', u'University of California: Davis']]
[u'Containing Emerging Epidemics: a Quantitative Comparison of Quarantine and Symptom Monitoring', ['Corey Peak', 'Lauren M Childs', 'Yonatan H Grad', 'Caroline O Buckee'], u'August 31, 2016.', u'Background\nStrategies for containing an emerging infectious disease outbreak must be non-pharmaceutical when drugs or vaccines for the pathogens do not yet exist or are unavailable. However, little work exists to guide decisions between competing non-pharmaceutical strategies, as exemplified by the confusion about whether to employ quarantine or symptom monitoring during the recent Ebola epidemic in West Africa. \n\nMethods\nWe compared the effectiveness of quarantine and symptom monitoring in controlling epidemics using an agent-based branching model that accommodates non-pharmaceutical interventions. We used Sequential Monte Carlo particle filtering methods to parameterize disease dynamics of symptoms and infectiousness for seven case study diseases with diverse natural histories including Ebola, Influenza A, and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS). We quantify the key characteristics of an emerging disease that are most influential for determining the optimal intervention, given varying feasibility of its implementation.  \n\nFindings\nThe comparative effectiveness of symptom monitoring and quarantine depends critically on the natural history of the infectious disease, its inherent transmissibility, and the intervention feasibility in the particular healthcare setting. The benefit of quarantine over symptom monitoring is generally maximized for fast-course diseases, or when there is a long delay between symptom onset and isolation. We find that symptom monitoring could effectively control an outbreak of a new Ebola-like disease, even when infectiousness precedes symptoms and interventions are not perfectly implemented.\n\nInterpretation\nWe establish a quantitative framework for guiding policy-makers in their decisions about how best to use non-pharmacological interventions to contain emerging outbreaks. Our method also provides guidelines for prioritizing research during an outbreak of a novel pathogen, by highlighting which aspects of the disease determine the epidemic potential of emerging pathogens.', u'/content/early/2016/08/31/072652', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health;', u"Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Brigham and Women's Hospital"]]
[u'A phylogenetic transform enhances analysis of compositional microbiota data', ['Justin D Silverman', 'Alex Washburne', 'Sayan Mukherjee', 'Lawrence A David'], u'August 31, 2016.', u'High-throughput DNA sequencing technologies have revolutionized the study of microbial communities (microbiota) and have revealed their importance in both human health and disease. However, due to technical limitations, data from microbiota surveys reflect the relative abundance of bacterial taxa and not their absolute levels. It is well known that applying common statistical methods, such as correlation or hypothesis testing, to relative abundance data can lead to spurious results. Here, we introduce the PhILR transform, a data transform that utilizes microbial phylogenetic information. This transform enables off-the-shelf statistical tools to be applied to microbiota surveys free from artifacts usually associated with analysis of relative abundance data. Using environmental and human-associated microbial community datasets as benchmarks, we find that the PhILR transform significantly improves the performance of distance-based and machine learning-based statistics, boosting the accuracy of widely used algorithms on reference benchmarks by 90%. Because the PhILR transform relies on bacterial phylogenies, statistics applied in the PhILR coordinate system are also framed within an evolutionary perspective. Regression on PhILR transformed human microbiota data identified evolutionarily neighboring bacterial clades that may have differentiated to adapt to distinct body sites. Variance statistics showed that the degree of covariation of bacterial clades across human body sites tended to increase with phylogenetic relatedness between clades. These findings support the hypothesis that environmental selection, not competition between bacteria, plays a dominant role in structuring human-associated microbial communities.', u'/content/early/2016/08/31/072413', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Duke University']]
[u'Mating success associated with the white gene in Drosophila melanogaster', ['Chengfeng Xiao', 'Shuang Qiu', 'R Meldrum Robertson'], u'August 31, 2016.', u'Characteristics of mating behavior in Drosophila melanogaster have been well-described, but the genetic basis for male-female mating success is largely unknown. Here we show that the white (w) gene, a classical eye color gene, is associated with mating success. 81.3 % of wild-type flies copulated within 60 minutes in the circular arenas, whereas few white-eyed mutants mated successfully. The w+ allele exchanged to the X chromosome or duplicated to the Y chromosome in the white-eyed genetic background rescued the defect of mating success. Addition of a mini-white (mw+) gene to the white-eyed mutant background rectified the defect of mating success and rescued courting in a dosage-dependent manner. Lastly, male-female sexual experience mimicked the effects of w+/mw+ in improving successful male-female mating. These data suggest a strong association between the w gene and mating success in Drosophila melanogaster.', u'/content/early/2016/08/31/072710', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u"Queen's University, Canada"]]
[u'Evaluating the Stability and Flexibility of DNA Methylation Patterns from Stem to Differentiated Cells', ['Minseung Choi', 'Diane P Genereux', 'Jamie Goodson', 'Haneen Al-Azzawi', 'Shannon Q. Allain', 'Stan Palasek', 'Carol B. Ware', 'Chris Cavanaugh', 'Daniel G. Miller', 'Winslow C. Johnson', 'Kevin D. Sinclair', 'Reinhard Stoger', 'Charles D. Laird'], u'August 31, 2016.', u'DNA methylation has been studied extensively in many developmental systems. Little attention, however, has been given to identifying methylation features that distinguish loci whose patterns are in flux in a given cell lineage from those whose patterns are stable. Here, we develop a new metric, the Ratio of Concordance Preference (RCP), to quantify and compare epigenetic flexibility and stability across loci, cell types, and developmental stages, without assuming any specific biochemical mechanisms. We apply RCP to double-stranded DNA methylation data from human and murine cells and conclude that: (i) preference for concordant DNA methylation is reduced but not eliminated in stem relative to differentiated cells; (ii) cellular differentiation is characterized by increasing preference for concordant methylation states; and (iii) while concordance preference remains substantial through embryonic totipotency and early stages of pluripotency, primordial germ cells initially have nearly no preference for concordance, perhaps reflecting the high level of epigenetic flexibility en route to production of gametes. The mechanism-free nature of RCP will enable comparison of DNA methylation systems not only across cell types and developmental stages, but also across organisms whose methylation machineries are not well understood or may differ significantly.', u'/content/early/2016/08/31/072488', [u'Genetics'], [u'Princeton University;', u'UMass Medical School and Broad Institute;', u'University of Washington;', u'University of Nottingham, Sutton Bonington Campus;', u'University of Pittsburgh;', u'University of Nottingham']]
[u'Cooperative DNA binding by a splice variant of the transcription factor ETS1 that lacks autoinhibition', ['Daniel Samorodnitsky', 'Courtney Szyjka', 'Gerald Koudelka'], u'August 31, 2016.', u'ETS1 is the archetypal member of the metazoan ETS transcription factor family. All the members of this family bind to the conserved GGA(A/T) core ETS binding sequence (EBS). Several ETS family members exhibit autoinhibition, wherein one domain of ETS blocks its own DNA-binding activity until certain conditions are met. Relief of autoinhibition in these proteins is coupled to homo- or hetero-dimer formation. Relief of autoinhibition in full-length ETS1 is catalyzed by non-specific interaction with DNA, which facilitates the formation of protein dimers.  The ETS1 splice variant, ETS1-p42, lacks an exon that encodes a crucial part of the autoinhibitory module. Thus, ETS1-p42 does not autoinhibit. We showed that the absence of autoinhibition allows ETS1\u0394335, an N-terminal deletion that recapitulates the DNA- binding of ETS1-p42, to form homodimers in the absence of DNA. However, ETS1-p42 is thought to bind its DNA sites only as monomers. Here, we explore this paradox and show that ETS1\u0394335 binds cooperatively to DNA containing two EBSs. We also show that residues in ETS1DNA recognition helix mediate this DNA-binding cooperativity. Furthermore we also find that a single EBS can bind two ETS1\u0394335 subunits. Finally, we show that DNA acts catalytically to separate unbound ETS1\u0394335 dimers into monomers. Together, these results suggest a model of ETS1-p42 DNA-binding, where ETS1-p42 can bind to a single EBS with 2:1 stoichiometry.', u'/content/early/2016/08/31/070185', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'USDA;', u'University at Buffalo']]
[u'The impacts of drift and selection on genomic evolution in holometabolous insects', ['K. Jun Tong', 'Sebastian Duchene', 'Nathan Lo', 'Simon Y.W. Ho'], u'August 31, 2016.', u'Genomes evolve through a medley of mutation, drift, and selection, all of which act heterogeneously across genes and lineages. The pacemaker models of genomic evolution describe the resulting patterns of evolutionary rate variation: genes that are governed by the same pacemaker exhibit the same pattern of rate heterogeneity across lineages. However, the relative importance of drift and selection in determining the structure of these pacemakers is unknown. Here, we propose a novel phylogenetic approach to explain the formation of pacemakers. We apply this method to a genomic dataset from holometabolous insects, an ancient and diverse group of organisms. We show that when drift is the dominant evolutionary process, each pacemaker tends to govern a large number of fast-evolving genes. In contrast, strong negative selection leads to many distinct pacemakers, each of which governs a few slow-evolving genes. Our results provide new insights into the interplay between drift and selection in driving genomic evolution.', u'/content/early/2016/08/31/072512', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Sydney']]
[u'Disrupted cholinergic modulation can underlie abnormal gamma rhythms in the schizophrenia', ['Jung H. Lee'], u'August 31, 2016.', u'Gamma band oscillatory neural activity, considered critical in synchronizing brain areas, appears abnormal in patients with schizophrenia. Stimulus evoked gamma band power is lower, compared with healthy subjects, but baseline gamma power is higher. Based on the observation that cholinergic modulation regulates interactions between primary auditory cortex (A1) and an association cortex in the gamma frequency bands, we hypothesize that disrupted cholinergic modulation may underlie abnormal gamma rhythms in schizophrenia. In this study we use a computational model composed with pyramidal cells, fast-spiking (FS) and non-FS inhibitory interneurons. In accordance with experimental data, we simulate the pathological condition by lowering the excitability of non-FS cells. The spectral power densities of local field potentials (LFPs) are compared between control and pathological conditions in pre-stimulus and stimulus periods, respectively. In the simulations, disrupted cholinergic modulation enhances gamma band power in the pre-stimulus period but reduces it in the stimulus period, which is consistent with the patterns of experimentally observed abnormal gamma rhythms. We further note that top-down gamma rhythms suppress A1 responses and that A1 Pyr cells respond to top-down gamma rhythms in the pathological condition. Thus, we propose that cholinergic modulation can underlie the functional dysconnectivity and that the erroneous activation of A1 induced by top-down gamma rhythms in the pathological condition can account for auditory hallucination.', u'/content/early/2016/08/31/072504', [u'Pathology'], [u'Allen Institute for Brain Science']]
[u'A hierarchical Bayesian framework for understanding the spatiotemporal dynamics of the intestinal epithelium', ['Oliver J Maclaren', 'Aimee Parker', 'Carmen Pin', 'Simon R Carding', 'Alastair JM Watson', 'Alexander G Fletcher', 'Helen M Byrne', 'Philip K Maini'], u'August 31, 2016.', u'Our work addresses two key challenges, one biological and one methodological. First, we aim to understand how proliferation and cellular migration rates in the intestinal epithelium are related under healthy, damaged (Ara-C treated) and recovering conditions, and how these relations can be used to identify mechanisms of repair and regeneration. We analyse new data, presented in more detail in a companion paper, in which BrdU/IdU cell-labelling experiments were performed under these respective conditions. Second, in considering how to more rigorously process these data and interpret them using mathematical models, we develop a probabilistic, hierarchical framework. This framework provides a best-practice approach for systematically modelling and understanding the uncertainties that can otherwise undermine drawing reliable conclusions - uncertainties in experimental measurement and treatment, difficult-to-compare mathematical models of underlying mechanisms, and unknown or unobserved parameters. Both discrete and continuous process models are considered and related via hierarchical conditional probability assumptions. This allows the incorporation of features of both continuum tissue models and discrete cellular models. We perform model checks on both in-sample and out-of-sample datasets and use these checks to illustrate how to test possible model improvements and assess the robustness of our conclusions. This allows us to consider - and ultimately decide against - the need to retain finite-cell-size effects to explain a small misfit appearing in one set of long-time, out-of-sample predictions. Our approach leads us to conclude, for the present set of experiments, that a primarily proliferation-driven model is adequate for predictions over most time-scales. We describe each stage of our framework in detail, and hope that the present work may also serve as a guide for other applications of the hierarchical approach to problems in computational biology.', u'/content/early/2016/08/31/072561', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'The University of Auckland;', u'Institute of Food Research;', u'Institute of Food Research/University of East Anglia;', u'University of Sheffield;', u'University of Oxford']]
[u'A REPETITIVE MODULAR OSCILLATION UNDERLIES HUMAN BRAIN ELECTRIC ACTIVITY', ['Arturo Tozzi', 'James Peters', 'Norbert Jausovec'], u'August 31, 2016.', u"The modular function j, central in the assessment of abstract mathematical problems, describes elliptic, intertwined trajectories that move in the planes of both real and complex numbers.  Recent clues suggest that the j-function might display a physical counterpart, equipped with a quantifiable real component and a hidden imaginary one, currently undetectable by our senses and instruments.  Here we evaluate whether the real part of the modular function can be spotted in the electric activity of the human brain.  We assessed EEGs from five healthy males, eyes-closed and resting state, and superimposed the electric traces with the bidimensional curves predicted by the j-function.  We found that the two trajectories matched in more than 85% of cases, independent from the subtending electric rhythm and the electrode location.  Therefore, the real part of the j-function's peculiar wave is ubiquitously endowed all over normal EEGs paths.  We discuss the implications of such correlation in neuroscience and neurology, highlighting how the j-function might stand for the one of the basic oscillations of the brain, and how the still unexplored imaginary part might underlie several physiological and pathological nervous features.", u'/content/early/2016/08/31/072538', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada;', u'University of Manitoba;', u'University of Maribor']]
[u'Evolutionary Genetics of Insecticide Resistance and the Effects of Chemical Rotation', ['Dylan J Siniard', 'Michael J Wade', 'Douglas W Drury'], u'August 31, 2016.', u'Repeated use of the same class of pesticides to control a target pest is a form of artificial selection that leads to pesticide resistance. We studied insecticide resistance and cross-resistance to five commercial insecticides in each of six populations of the red flour beetle, Tribolium castaneum. We estimated the dosage response curves for lethality in each parent population for each insecticide and found an 800-fold difference among populations in resistance to insecticides. As expected, a naive laboratory population was among the most sensitive of populations to most insecticides. We then used inbred lines derived from five of these populations to estimate the heritability (h2) of resistance for each pesticide and the genetic correlation (rG) of resistance among pesticides in each population. These quantitative genetic parameters allow insight into the adaptive potential of populations to further evolve insecticide resistance. Lastly, we use our estimates of the genetic variance and covariance of resistance and stochastic simulations to evaluate the efficacy of windowing as an insecticide resistance management strategy, where the application of several insecticides is rotated on a periodic basis.', u'/content/early/2016/08/31/072520', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Indiana University']]
[u'Evolution of natal dispersal in spatially heterogenous environments', ['Robert S. Cantrell', 'Chris Cosner', 'Yuan Lou', 'Sebastian Schreiber'], u'August 31, 2016.', u"Understanding the evolution of dispersal is an important issue in evolutionary ecology.  For continuous time models in which individuals disperse throughout their lifetime, it has been shown that a balanced dispersal strategy, which results in an ideal free distribution, is evolutionary stable in spatially varying but temporally constant environments. Many species, however, primarily disperse prior to reproduction (natal dispersal) and less commonly between reproductive events (breeding dispersal). These species include territorial species such as birds and reef fish, and sessile species such as plants,  and mollusks. As demographic and dispersal terms combine in a multiplicative way for models of natal dispersal, rather than the additive way for the previously studied models, we develop new mathematical methods to study the evolution of natal dispersal for continuous-time and discrete-time models. A fundamental ecological dichotomy is identified for the non-trivial equilibrium of these models: (i) the per-capita growth rates for individuals in all patches is equal to zero, or (ii) individuals in some patches experience negative per-capita growth rates, while individuals in other patches experience positive per-capita growth rates. The first possibility corresponds to an ideal-free distribution, while the second possibility corresponds to a ``source-sink'' spatial structure. We prove that populations with a dispersal strategy leading to an ideal-free distribution  displace populations  with dispersal strategy leading to a source-sink spatial structure. When there are patches which can not sustain a population, ideal-free strategies can be achieved by sedentary populations, and we show  that these populations can displace populations with any irreducible dispersal strategy. Collectively, these results support that evolution selects for natal or breeding dispersal strategies which lead to ideal-free distributions in spatially heterogenous, but temporally homogenous, environments.", u'/content/early/2016/08/31/072462', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Miami;', u'Ohio State University;', u'University of California, Davis']]
[u'Genomic signature of kin selection in an ant with obligately sterile workers', ['Michael R Warner', 'Alexander Mikheyev', 'Timothy A Linksvayer'], u'August 31, 2016.', u'Kin selection is thought to drive the evolution of cooperation and conflict, but the specific genes and\ngenome-wide patterns shaped by kin selection are unknown. We identified thousands of genes\nassociated with the sterile ant worker caste, the archetype of an altruistic phenotype shaped by kin\nselection, and then used population and comparative genomic approaches to study patterns of\nmolecular evolution at these genes. Consistent with population genetic theoretical predictions,\nworker-upregulated genes showed relaxed adaptive evolution compared to genes upregulated in\nreproductive castes. Worker-upregulated genes included more taxonomically-restricted genes,\nindicating that the worker caste has recruited more novel genes, yet these genes also showed\nrelaxed selection. Our study identifies a putative genomic signature of kin selection and helps to\nintegrate emerging sociogenomic data with longstanding social evolution theory.', u'/content/early/2016/08/31/072496', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Pennsylvania;', u'Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology']]
[u'MetacodeR: An R package for manipulation and heat tree visualization of community taxonomic data from metabarcoding', ['Zachary S. L. Foster', 'Thomas Sharpton', 'Niklaus J Grunwald'], u'August 31, 2016.', u'Community-level data, the type generated by an increasing number of metabarcoding studies, is often graphed as stacked bar charts or pie graphs; these graph types do not convey the hierarchical structure of taxonomic classifications and are limited by the use of color for categories. We developed MetacodeR, an R package for easily parsing, manipulating, and plotting hierarchical data. To accomplish this, MetacodeR provides a function to parse most text-based formats that contain taxonomic classifications, taxon names, taxon IDs, or sequence IDs. This parsed data can then be subset, sampled, and ordered using a set of intuitive functions that take into account the hierarchical nature of the data. Finally, an extremely flexible plotting function allows for the quantitative representation of up to 4 arbitrary statistics simultaneously in a tree format by mapping statistics to color and size of tree nodes and edges. MetacodeR also allows exploration of barcode primer bias by integrating functions to run digital PCR. MetacodeR has been designed for data from metabarcoding research, but can easily be applied to any data that has a hierarchical component such as gene ontology, gene expression data, or geographic location data. Our package complements currently available tools for community analysis and is provided open source with extensive online user manuals.', u'/content/early/2016/08/31/071019', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Oregon State University;', u'USDA ARS']]
[u'Deep Annotation of Protein Function across Diverse Bacteria from Mutant Phenotypes', ['Morgan N Price', 'Kelly M Wetmore', 'Robert Jordan Waters', 'Mark Callaghan', 'Jayashree Ray', 'Jennifer V Kuehl', 'Ryan A Melnyk', 'Jacob S Lamson', 'Yumi Suh', 'Zuelma Esquivel', 'Harini Sadeeshkumar', 'Romy Chakraborty', 'Benjamin E Rubin', 'James Bristow', 'Matthew J Blow', 'Adam P Arkin', 'Adam M Deutschbauer'], u'August 31, 2016.', u'The function of nearly half of all protein-coding genes identified in bacterial genomes remains unknown. To systematically explore the functions of these proteins, we generated saturated transposon mutant libraries from 25 diverse bacteria and we assayed mutant phenotypes across hundreds of distinct conditions. From 3,903 genome-wide mutant fitness assays, we obtained 14.9 million gene phenotype measurements and we identified a mutant phenotype for 8,487 proteins with previously unknown functions. The majority of these hypothetical proteins (57%) had phenotypes that were either specific to a few conditions or were similar to that of another gene, thus enabling us to make informed predictions of protein function. For 1,914 of these hypothetical proteins, the functional associations are conserved across related proteins from different bacteria, which confirms that these associations are genuine. This comprehensive catalogue of experimentally-annotated protein functions also enables the targeted exploration of specific biological processes.  For example, sensitivity to a DNA-damaging agent revealed 28 known families of DNA repair proteins and 11 putative novel families. Across all sequenced bacteria, 14% of proteins that lack detailed annotations have an ortholog with a functional association in our data set. Our study demonstrates the utility and scalability of high-throughput genetics for large-scale annotation of bacterial proteins and provides a vast compendium of experimentally-determined protein functions across diverse bacteria.', u'/content/early/2016/08/31/072470', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory;', u'Joint Genome Institute, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory;', u'University of California, San Diego']]
[u'Simera: Modelling the PCR Process to Simulate Realistic Chimera Formation', ['Ben Nichols', 'Christopher Quince'], u'August 31, 2016.', u'Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) is the principal method of amplifying target DNA regions and, as such, is of great importance when performing microbial diversity studies. An unfortunate side effect of PCR is the formation of unwanted byproducts such as chimeras. The main goal of the work covered in this article is the development of an algorithm that simulates realistic chimeras for use in the evaluation of chimera detection software and for investigations into the accuracy of community structure analyses. Experimental data has helped to identify factors which may cause the formation of chimeras and has provided evidence of how influential these factors can be. This article makes use of some of this evidence in order to build a model with which to simulate the PCR process. This model helps to better explain the formation of chimeras and is therefore able to provide aid to future studies that intend to use PCR.', u'/content/early/2016/08/31/072447', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Glasgow;', u'University of Warwick']]
