[u'Dynamic compensation, parameter identifiability, and equivariances', ['Eduardo Sontag'], u'December 21, 2016.', u'The recently proposed notion of dynamical compensation in biological circuits (Karin, Swisa, Glaser, Dor, and Alon, Mol. Syst Biol 2016) is reinterpreted in terms of two related notions in systems biology: system equivalence and parameter (un)identifiability.  This recasting leads to necessary and sufficient tests for verifying the validity of the property, and unifies the concept with that of fold-change detection.', u'/content/early/2016/12/21/095828', [], [u'Rutgers University']]
[u'Activity-dependent expression of reporter proteins at dendritic spines for synaptic activity mapping and optogenetic stimulation', ['Francesco Gobbo', 'Laura Marchetti', 'Claudia Alia', 'Stefano Luin', 'Antonino Cattaneo'], u'December 21, 2016.', u'Increasing evidence points to the importance of dendritic spines in the formation and allocation of memories, and alterations of spine number and physiology are associated to memory and cognitive disorders. Synaptic connections and pathways constitute the physical substrate that conveys information in the brain, and different combinations of active synaptic connections are believed to be responsible for the encoding of specific memories. In addition, modifications of the activity of such subsets of synapses are believed to be crucial for memory establishment, but a way to directly test this hypothesis, by selectively controlling the activity of potentiated spines, is currently lagging behind. Therefore it would be important to develop methods to tag active synapses for mapping functionally active connections and to selectively stimulate or interfere with active synapses. Here we introduce an approach to express light-sensitive membrane channels at synapses in an activity-dependent way by means of RNA and protein regulatory sequences. This approach is based on the local expression of reporter proteins, including opto-genetic probes, at activated synapses and will allow the mapping of previously active synapses and the re-activation of the neuron only at these sites. This will allow extending the investigation of memory processes beyond the current neuron tagging technologies, whose resolution is limited at the cellular scale. Thus, it will be possible to unveil and recall the synaptic engram out of the global set of synapses.', u'/content/early/2016/12/21/095984', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Bio@SNS, Scuola Normale Superiore;', u'CNI@NEST, Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia;', u'NEST, Scuola Normale Superiore']]
[u'The Constancy of Colored After-Images', ['Semir Zeki', 'Samuel Cheadle', 'Joshua Pepper', 'Dimitris Mylonas'], u'December 21, 2016.', u'We undertook psychophysical experiments to determine whether the color of the after-image produced by viewing a colored patch which is part of a complex multi-colored scene depends on the wavelength-energy composition of the light reflected from that patch. Our results show that, just as the color of a patch which is part of a complex scene is independent of the wavelength-energy composition of the light coming from it alone, but depends as well on the wavelength-energy composition of the light coming from its surrounds, so is the color of its after-image. Hence, traditional accounts of after-images as being the result of retinal adaptation or the perceptual result of physiological opponency, are inadequate. We propose instead that the color of after-images is generated after colors themselves are generated in the visual brain.', u'/content/early/2016/12/21/095935', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University College London']]
[u'Transcranial stimulation enhances memory-relevant sleep oscillations and their functional coupling in mild cognitive impairment', ['Julia Ladenbauer', 'Josef Ladenbauer', 'Nadine Kulzow', 'Rebecca de Boor', 'Elena Avramova', 'Ulrike Grittner', 'Agnes Floel'], u'December 21, 2016.', u"Alzheimer's disease (AD) not only involves loss of memory functions but also prominent deterioration of sleep physiology, already evident in the stage of mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Cortical slow oscillations (SO, 0.5-1 Hz) and thalamo-cortical spindle activity (12-15 Hz) during sleep, and their temporal coordination, are considered critical for memory formation. We investigated the potential of slow oscillatory transcranial direct current stimulation (so-tDCS), applied during a daytime nap in a sleep state-dependent manner, to modulate these activity patterns and sleep-related memory consolidation in 16 patients with MCI. \nStimulation significantly increased overall SO and spindle power, amplified spindle power during SO up-phases, and led to stronger synchronization between SO and spindle power fluctuations in electroencephalographic recordings. Moreover, visual declarative memory was improved by so-tDCS compared to sham stimulation, associated with stronger synchronization. These findings indicate a well-tolerated therapeutic approach for disordered sleep physiology and deficits in memory consolidation in MCI patients.", u'/content/early/2016/12/21/095588', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Charit\xe9 Universit\xe4tsmedizin Berlin;', u'Technische Universit\xe4t Berlin']]
[u'BAYESIAN NON-CENTRAL CHI REGRESSION FOR NEUROIMAGING', ['Bertil Wegmann', 'Anders Eklund', 'Mattias Villani'], u'December 21, 2016.', u'We propose a regression model for non-central \u03c7 (NC-\u03c7) distributed functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and diffusion weighted imaging (DWI) data, with the heteroscedastic Rician regression model as a prominent special case. The model allows both\nparameters in the NC-\u03c7 distribution to be linked to explanatory variables, with the relevant covariates automatically chosen by Bayesian variable selection. A highly efficient Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) algorithm is proposed for simulating from the joint Bayesian posterior distribution of all model parameters and the binary covariate selection indicators. Simulated fMRI data is used to demonstrate that the Rician model is able to localize brain activity much more accurately than the traditionally used Gaussian model at low signal-to-noise ratios. Using a diffusion dataset from the Human Connectome Project, it is also shown that the commonly used approximate Gaussian noise model underestimates the mean diffusivity (MD) and the fractional anisotropy (FA) in the single-diffusion tensor model compared to the theoretically correct Rician model.', u'/content/early/2016/12/21/095844', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Linkoping University']]
[u'Online control of prehension predicts performance on a standardised motor assessment test in 8-12 year-old children', ['Caroline C. V. Blanchard', 'Hannah L. McGlashan', 'Blandine French', 'Rachel J. Sperring', 'Bianca Petrocochino', 'Nicholas P. Holmes'], u'December 21, 2016.', u"Goal-directed hand movements are guided by sensory information and may be adjusted 'online', during the movement. If the target of a movement unexpectedly changes position, trajectory corrections can be initiated in as little as 100ms in adults. This rapid visual online control is impaired in children with developmental coordination disorder (DCD), and potentially in other neurodevelopmental conditions. We investigated the visual control of hand movements in children in a 'centre-out' double-step reaching and grasping task, and examined how parameters of this visuomotor control co-vary with performance on standardised motor tests often used with typically and atypically developing children. Two groups of children aged 8-12 years were asked to reach and grasp an illuminated central ball on a vertically oriented board. On a proportion of trials, and at movement onset, the illumination switched unpredictably to one of four other balls in a centre-out configuration (left, right, up, or down). When the target moved, all but one of the children were able to correct their movements before reaching the initial target, at least on some trials, but the latencies to initiate these corrections were longer than those typically reported in the adult literature, ranging from 211 to 581 ms. These later corrections may be due to less developed motor skills in children, or to the increased cognitive and biomechanical complexity of switching movements in four directions. In the first group (n=187), reaching and grasping parameters significantly predicted standardised movement scores on the MABC-2, most strongly for the aiming and catching component. In the second group (n=85), these same parameters did not significantly predict scores on the DCDQ-07 parent questionnaire. Our reaching and grasping task provides a sensitive and continuous measure of movement skill that predicts scores on standardized movement tasks used to screen for DCD.", u'/content/early/2016/12/21/095703', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'School of Psychology, University of Nottingham, University Park, Nottingham NG7 2RD, UK;', u'School of Psychology and Clinical Language Sciences, University of Reading, Reading RG6 6AL, UK']]
[u'Coefficient of determination R2 and intra-class correlation coefficient ICC from generalized linear mixed-effects models revisited and expanded', ['Shinichi Nakagawa', 'Holger Schielzeth'], u'December 21, 2016.', u"1.\tThe coefficient of determination R2 quantifies the proportion of variance explained by a statistical model and is an important summary statistic of biological interest. However, estimating R2 for (generalized) linear mixed models (GLMMs) remains challenging. We have previously introduced a version of R2 that we called R2GLMM for Poisson and binomial GLMMs, but not for other distributional families.\n2.\tSimilarly, we earlier discussed how to estimate intra-class correlation coefficients ICC (also known as repeatability in the field of ecology and evolution) using Poisson and binomial GLMMs, but not for other distributional families. ICC is related to R2 because they are both ratios of variance components. \n3.\tIn this article we expand our method to additional non-Gaussian distributions, namely quasi-Poisson, negative binomial and gamma GLMMs. However, in theory, our extension could be applied to any distribution and we include an explanatory calculation for the Tweedie distribution.\n4.\tWhile expanding our approach, we highlight two useful concepts, Jensen's inequality and the delta method, both of which help in understanding the properties of GLMMs. Jensen's inequality has important implications for the interpretation GLMMs while the delta method allows a general derivation of distribution-specific variances. We also discuss some special considerations for binomial GLMMs with binary or proportion data.\n5.\tWe illustrate the implementation of our extension by worked examples in the R environment. However, our method can be used regardless of statistical packages and environments. We finish by referring to two alternative methods to our approach along with a cautionary note.", u'/content/early/2016/12/21/095851', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of New South Wales;', u'Friedrich Schiller University Jena']]
[u'Transcriptional study of the ABC transporter-encoding genes in response to fungicide treatment and during plant infection in the phytopathogenic fungus Botrytis cinerea', ['Elise LOISEL', 'Isabelle R GONCALVES', 'Nathalie POUSSEREAU', 'Marie-Claire GROSJEAN-COURNOYER', 'Francois VILLALBA', 'Christophe BRUEL'], u'December 21, 2016.', u'The grey mould fungus Botrytis cinerea causes worldwide losses of commercially important fruits, vegetables and ornamentals. Various fungicides, with different modes of action, are effective against this pathogen, but isolates with multiple fungicide-resistance phenotypes (Multi Drug Resistance, MDR) have been observed with increasing frequency. In fungi, ATP binding cassette (ABC) transporters participate in drug efflux and we report here on the parallel transcriptional study of the predicted ABC transporter-encoding genes in B. cinerea. During plant infection, transcription of all of these genes was activated and overexpression was observed for a few of these genes if the plants were treated with a fungicide prior to infection. In the absence of plant, most of the genes were transcriptionally activated in response to two different fungicides. Both common and specific transcriptional signatures were observed.', u'/content/early/2016/12/21/095869', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Lyon UCBL University (France);', u'BAYER Cropscience SAS Lyon France']]
[u'Acidic pH-dependent depletion of  Mycobacterium tuberculosis  thiol pools potentiates antibiotics and oxidizing agents', ['Garry B Coulson', 'Benjamin K Johnson', 'Christopher J. Colvin', 'Robert J Fillinger', 'Huiqing Zheng', 'Elizabeth R. Haiderer', 'Neal D Hammer', 'Robert B. Abramovitch'], u'December 21, 2016.', u'Mycobacterium tuberculosis  (Mtb) must sense and adapt to immune pressures such as acidic pH and reactive oxygen species (ROS) during pathogenesis. The goal of this study was to isolate compounds that inhibit acidic pH resistance, thus defining virulence pathways that are vulnerable to chemotherapy. Here we report that the acidic pH-dependent compound AC2P36 depletes intracellular thiol pools, sensitizes Mtb to killing by acidic pH, and potentiates the bactericidal activity of isoniazid, clofazimine, and oxidizing agents. We show that the pH-dependent activity of AC2P36 is associated with metabolic stress at acidic pH and a pH-dependent accumulation of intracellular ROS. Mechanism of action studies show that AC2P36 directly depletes Mtb thiol pools. These data support a model where chemical depletion of Mtb thiol pools at acidic pH enhances sensitivity to oxidative damage, resulting in bacterial killing and potentiation of antibiotics.', u'/content/early/2016/12/21/095448', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Michigan State University']]
[u'A Unique Ribosome Signature Reveals Bacterial Translation Initiation Sites', ['Adam Giess', 'Elvis Ndah', 'Veronique Jonckheere', 'Petra Van Damme', 'Eivind Valen'], u'December 21, 2016.', u'While methods for annotation of genes are increasingly reliable the exact identification of the translation initiation site remains a challenging problem. Since the N-termini of proteins often contain regulatory and targeting information developing a robust method for start site identification is crucial. Ribosome profiling reads show distinct patterns of read length distributions around translation initiation sites. These patterns are typically lost in standard ribosome profiling analysis pipelines, when reads from footprints are adjusted to determine the specific codon being translated. Using these unique signatures we build a model capable of predicting translation initiation sites and demonstrate its high accuracy using N-terminal proteomics. Applying this to prokaryotic samples, we re-annotate translation initiation sites and provide evidence of N-terminal truncations and elongations of annotated coding sequences. These re-annotations are supported by the presence of Shine-Dalgarno sequences, structural and sequence based features and N-terminal peptides. Finally, our model identifies 61 novel genes previously undiscovered in the genome.', u'/content/early/2016/12/21/095893', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Bergen;', u'Ghent University']]
[u'Transcriptomic Evidence for Reproductive Suppression in Male Peromyscus eremicus (Cactus Mouse) Subjected to Acute Dehydration', ['Lauren Kordonowy', 'Matthew MacManes'], u'December 21, 2016.', u"Understanding how organisms adapt to extreme environments is an outstanding question facing evolutionary biologists. Research related to a specific example of adaptation, mammals in desert environments, has focused on survival, while questions related to the reproductive effects of dehydration have been largely ignored. Here, we explore the reproductive consequences of acute dehydration by utilizing RNAseq data in the desert-specialized rodent, Peromyscus eremicus. Nine genes were consistently differentially expressed between hydrated and dehydrated mice, a low number which aligns with current perceptions of this species' extreme desert specialization. However, these differentially expressed genes include Insulin-like 3 (Insl3), a regulator of male fertility, as well as Slc45a3 and Slc38a5, both of which interact with genes with important roles in reproductive function.  Together, these findings suggest that acute dehydration is linked to reproductive mitigation, a result which is unexpected in an animal capable of surviving and successfully reproducing without available external water sources.", u'/content/early/2016/12/21/096057', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of New Hampshire']]
[u'Noninvasive Prenatal Screening at Low Fetal Fraction: Comparing Whole- Genome Sequencing and Single-Nucleotide Polymorphism Methods', ['Carlo G. Artieri', 'Carrie Haverty', 'Eric A. Evans', 'James D. Goldberg', 'Imran S. Haque', 'Yuval Yaron', 'Dale Muzzey'], u'December 21, 2016.', u"Objective: Performance of noninvasive prenatal screening (NIPS) methodologies when applied to low fetal fraction samples is not well established. The single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) method fails samples below a predetermined fetal fraction threshold, whereas some laboratories employing the whole-genome sequencing (WGS) method report aneuploidy calls for all samples. Here, the performance of the two methods was compared to determine which approach actually detects more fetal aneuploidies.\n\nMethods: Computational models were parameterized with up-to-date published data and used to compare the performance of the two methods at calling common fetal trisomies (T21, T18, T13) at low fetal fractions. Furthermore, clinical experience data were reviewed to determine aneuploidy detection rates based on compliance with recent invasive screening recommendations.\n\nResults: The SNP method's performance is dependent on the origin of the trisomy, and is lowest for the most common trisomies (maternal M1 nondisjunction). Consequently, the SNP method cannot maintain acceptable performance at fetal fractions below ~3%. In contrast, the WGS method maintains high specificity independent of fetal fraction and has > 80% sensitivity for trisomies in low fetal fraction samples.  \n\nConclusion: The WGS method will detect more aneuploidies below the fetal fraction threshold at which many labs issue a no-call result, avoiding unnecessary invasive procedures.", u'/content/early/2016/12/21/096024', [u'Genomics'], [u'Counsyl Inc.;', u'Genetic Institute, Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center and Sackler Faculty of Medicine Tel Aviv U.']]
[u'Speciation trajectories in recombining bacterial species', ['Pekka Marttinen', 'Bill Hanage'], u'December 21, 2016.', u'While speciation in eukaryotes is well-studied, a controversy over the nature of bacterial species due to recombination between distant strains continues. It is generally agreed that bacterial diversity can be classified into genetically and ecologically cohesive units, but what produces such variation is a topic of intensive research. Recombination may maintain coherent species of frequently recombining bacteria, but the emergence of distinct clusters within a recombining species, and the impact of habitat structure in this process are not well described, limiting our understanding of how new species are created. Here we present a model of bacterial evolution in overlapping habitat space. We show three different outcomes are possible for a pair of clusters, depending on the size of their habitat overlap: fast divergence with little interaction between the clusters, slow divergence with frequent recombination between the clusters, and stationary or near stationary population structure, where the clusters remain at an equilibrium distance for an indefinite time. We fit our model to two data sets. In Streptococcus pneumoniae, we find a genomically and ecologically distinct subset, held at a relatively constant genetic distance from the majority of the population through frequent recombination with it, while in Campylobacter jejuni, we find a minority population we predict will continue to diverge at a higher rate. This approach may predict and define speciation trajectories in multiple bacterial species.', u'/content/early/2016/12/21/095885', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Aalto University;', u'Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health']]
[u'Non-random mating and information theory', ['Antonio Carvajal-Rodriguez'], u'December 21, 2016.', u'In this work, mate choice is modeled by means of the abstract concept of mating propensity. This only assumes that different type of couples can have different mating success. Thus, the model is adequate for any population where mating among distinct types is occurring. There is no extra assumption about particular mating scheme or preference model. It is shown that the concept of mating propensity permits to express the observed change in the mating frequencies as the gain in information with respect to random mating. This information framework provides the connection between mate choice and the exact mathematical partition of the choice effects. Namely sexual isolation, sexual selection and a mixed effect. The sexual selection component is the sum of the intrasexual male and female selection. Interestingly, the information partition is composed of log-likelihood ratios providing a baseline for defining adequate null hypotheses for the distinct aspects of the mate choice problem. The utility of the proposed framework is shown by analyzing real data to compare previous estimates of intra and intersexual effects. On the other hand, some toy-models are also studied showing how different mating schemes (e.g. by similarity or by preference-display) correspond to different proportions of intra- and intersexual selection information. We outline that when the effect of the phenotype onto the mating propensity is multiplicative the intersexual selection effects cannot appear. Thus, sexual isolation occurs as a deviation from multiplicativity in the phenotypic or trait effects over mate choice. The preference-display models are also easily interpreted in terms of information and we have inspected models of full isolation, full intrasexual selection and mixed effect models. It is concluded that the new framework permits testing the different choice effects. Additionally, it provides a new setting for exploring different mating models and their consequences.', u'/content/early/2016/12/21/095901', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Universidad de Vigo']]
[u'Isolation and Gene Flow in a Speciation Continuum in Newts', ['Maciej Pabijan', 'Piotr Zielinski', 'Katarzyna Dudek', 'Michal Stuglik', 'Wieslaw Babik'], u'December 21, 2016.', u'The evolution of reproductive isolation is a prolonged process that fosters genetic exchange between differentiating metapopulation lineages. Gene flow between incipient species provides an opportunity to quantify and understand the impact of gene flow on the accumulation of divergence along the speciation continuum. Here we delimit taxa, reconstruct phylogeny and infer gene flow in newts of the Lissotriton vulgaris species complex based on 74 nuclear markers sequenced for 127 populations. Using several species delimitation and phylogenetic methods, we recovered nine allo- and parapatric taxa, and obtained a partially resolved phylogeny. Approximate Bayesian Computation modeling detected historical and recent gene flow between several taxa, including non-sister pairs. Gene flow among taxa in Central Europe (L. v. ampelensis, L. v. meridionalis, two morphologically cryptic taxa within L. v. vulgaris) suggests that these lineages are non-independent and possibly in the process of merging in some areas. Three southern lineages (L. v. graecus, L. v. kosswigi, L. v. lantzi) have acquired the population genetic hallmarks of independent species, whereas the status of L. v. schmidtleri remains uncertain. We identified hybridization, causing extensive haplotype sharing between non-sister lineages, as an important source of genealogical discordance, positively misleading multispecies coalescent-based species tree methods. We also obtained strong statistical support for widespread mtDNA introgression, suggested by previously observed discordance between mtDNA phylogeny and morphology. Our study shows that distinct metapopulation lineages along the speciation continuum can exchange nontrivial amounts of genes and emphasizes an urgent need for effective methods accounting for gene flow in species tree reconstruction.', u'/content/early/2016/12/21/095877', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Institute of Zoology, Jagiellonian University;', u'Institute of Environmental Sciences, Jagiellonian University;', u'Scotlands Rural College, Integrative Animal Sciences']]
[u'Behavioural, modeling, and electrophysiological evidence for domain-generality in human metacognition', ['Nathan Faivre', 'Elisa Filevich', 'Guillermo Solovey', 'Simone Kuhn', 'Olaf Blanke'], u'December 21, 2016.', u"Metacognition, or the capacity to introspect on one's own mental states, has been mostly characterized through confidence reports in visual tasks. A pressing question is to what extent the results from visual studies generalize to other domains. Answering this question allows determining whether metacognition operates through shared, domain-general mechanisms, or through idiosyncratic, domain-specific mechanisms. Here, we report three new lines of evidence for decisional and post-decisional mechanisms arguing for the domain-generality of metacognition. First, metacognitive efficiency correlated between auditory, tactile, visual, and audiovisual tasks. Second, confidence in an audiovisual task was best modeled using supramodal formats based on integrated representations of auditory and visual signals. Third, confidence in correct responses involved similar electrophysiological markers for visual and audiovisual tasks that are associated with motor preparation preceding the perceptual judgment. We conclude that the domain-generality of metacognition relies on supramodal confidence estimates and decisional signals that are shared across sensory modalities.", u'/content/early/2016/12/21/095950', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'CNRS;', u'Humboldt Universitat;', u'Universidad de Buenos Aires;', u'Max Planck Institute;', u'EPFL']]
[u'The Liquid Structure of Elastin', ['Sarah Rauscher', 'Regis Pomes'], u'December 21, 2016.', u'The protein elastin imparts extensibility, elastic recoil, and resilience to tissues including arterial walls, skin, lung alveoli, and the uterus. Elastin and elastin-like peptides are intrinsically disordered hydrophobic proteins that undergo liquid-liquid phase separation upon self-assembly. Despite extensive study for over eighty years, the structure of elastin remains controversial. We use molecular dynamics simulations on a massive scale to elucidate the structural ensemble of aggregated elastin-like peptides. Consistent with the entropic nature of elastic recoil, the aggregated state is stabilized both by the hydrophobic effect and by conformational entropy. The polypeptide backbone forms transient, sparse hydrogen-bonded turns and remains significantly hydrated even as self-assembly triples the extent of nonpolar side-chain contacts. The assembly approaches a maximally-disordered, melt-like state, which may be called the liquid state of proteins. These findings resolve long-standing controversies regarding elastin structure and function and afford insight of broad relevance to the phase separation of disordered proteins.', u'/content/early/2016/12/21/095927', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Hospital for Sick Children']]
[u'A SUMO-Ubiquitin Relay Recruits Proteasomes to Chromosome Axes to Regulate Meiotic Recombination', ['H.B.D. Prasada Rao', 'Huanyu Qiao', 'Shubhang K. Bhatt', 'Logan R.J. Bailey', 'Hung D. Tran', 'Sarah L. Bourne', 'Wendy Qiu', 'Anusha Deshpande', 'Ajay N. Sharma', 'Connor J. Beebout', 'Roberto J. Pezza', 'Neil Hunter'], u'December 21, 2016.', u'Meiosis produces haploid gametes through a succession of chromosomal events including pairing, synapsis and recombination. Mechanisms that orchestrate these events remain poorly understood. We found that the SUMO-modification and ubiquitin-proteasomes systems regulate the major events of meiotic prophase in mouse. Interdependent localization of SUMO, ubiquitin and proteasomes along chromosome axes was mediated largely by RNF212 and HEI10, two E3 ligases that are also essential for crossover recombination. RNF212-dependent SUMO conjugation effected a checkpoint-like process that stalls recombination by rendering the turnover of a subset of recombination factors dependent on HEI10-mediated ubiquitylation. We propose that SUMO conjugation establishes a precondition for designating crossover sites via selective protein stabilization. Thus, meiotic chromosome axes are hubs for regulated proteolysis via SUMO-dependent control of the ubiquitin-proteasome system.', u'/content/early/2016/12/21/095711', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of California, Davis;', u'Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation']]
[u'Non-equilibrium chromosome looping via molecular slip-links', ['Chris A Brackley', 'James Johnson', 'Davide Michieletto', 'Alexander N Morozov', 'Mario Nicodemi', 'Peter R Cook', 'Davide Marenduzzo'], u'December 21, 2016.', u'We propose a model for the formation of chromatin loops based on the diffusive sliding of a DNA-bound factor which can dimerise to form a molecular slip-link. Our slip-links mimic the behaviour of cohesin-like molecules, which, along with the CTCF protein, stabilize loops which organize the genome. By combining 3D Brownian dynamics simulations and 1D exactly solvable non-equilibrium models, we show that diffusive sliding is sufficient to account for the strong bias in favour of convergent CTCF-mediated chromosome loops observed experimentally. Importantly, our model does not require any underlying, and energetically costly, motor activity of cohesin. We also find that the diffusive motion of multiple slip-links along chromatin may be rectified by an intriguing ratchet effect that arises if slip-links bind to the chromatin at a preferred "loading site". This emergent collective behaviour is driven by a 1D osmotic pressure which is set up near the loading point, and favours the extrusion of loops which are much larger than the ones formed by single slip-links.', u'/content/early/2016/12/21/095992', [u'Biophysics'], [u'University of Edinburgh;', u'Universiy of Edinburgh;', u'Universita di Napoli;', u'University of Oxford']]
[u'Chlamydomonas reinhardtii formin and profilin are optimized for acute rapid actin filament assembly', ['Jenna R Christensen', 'Michael J Glista', 'David M Mueller', 'Yujie Li', 'Jennifer A Sees', 'Colleen T Skau', 'Laurens J Mets', 'Prachee Avasthi', 'David R Kovar'], u'December 21, 2016.', u'Chlamydomonas reinhardtii is a unicellular green alga that appears less dependent upon its actin cytoskeleton than other cell types for fundamental processes like division and polarization. Null mutants of actin in Chlamydomonas, as well as treatment with actin depolymerizing drugs, have only mild defects. The reduced dependence on the actin cytoskeleton is now known to be due to the expression of a non-conventional actin in these cells which has both overlapping and unique functions. One structure that contains almost exclusively conventional F-actin is the mating fertilization tubule of gametes as actin depolymerizing drugs and conventional actin mutants have impaired fertilization tubule formation. Therefore, Chlamydomonas provides an excellent system to investigate regulation of the actin cytoskeleton, and in particular, how actin polymerization occurs at a very specific place and time. Interestingly, while it may contain a functionally minimal actin cytoskeleton, Chlamydomonas expresses both a profilin (CrPRF) and a formin (CrFor1). We have found that unlike typical profiling, CrPRF inhibits both F-actin nucleation and barbed end elongation at equimolar concentrations to actin. However, CrFor1 overcomes the low polymerizability of CrPRF bound actin and stimulates rapid actin filament assembly. CrPRF further favors CrFor1-mediated actin assembly by potently inhibiting Arp2/3 complex-mediated actin assembly. Together, these findings suggest that CrFor1 and CrPRF work together to selectively and rapidly assemble F-actin at the right time and place. In vivo results demonstrate that this rapid actin assembly by CrFor1 is important specifically for fertilization tubule formation during mating, as formin inhibitor SMIFH2 inhibits formation of fertilization tubules in Chlamydomonas gametes.', u'/content/early/2016/12/21/096008', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'University of Chicago;', u'University of Kansas Medical Center']]
[u'Cell Mechanosensing and Avoidance of Strain Gradients', ['Sophie Chagnon-Lessard', 'Hubert Jean-Ruel', 'Michel Godin', 'Andrew E. Pelling'], u'December 21, 2016.', u'Cyclically stretched cells are known to exhibit a strain-induced reorientation response. In this study, we comprehensively analyse this behaviour for human fibroblasts subjected to a highly non-uniform strain field within a polymethylsiloxane microdevice. We demonstrate a strong correlation between the strain amplitude and the degree of cell alignment perpendicular to the principal strain direction (stretching avoidance). Analogously, our results indicate that the strain gradient amplitude and direction also regulate this reorientation through a coordinated gradient avoidance response. We stipulate that strain gradients are thus biologically relevant mechanical cues sensed by cells. To gain insight into the underlying mechanosensing processes, we also studied focal adhesion reorganization and the effect of modulating myosin-II contractility. The extracted focal adhesion orientation distributions are similar to those obtained for the cell bodies, and their density is increased by the presence of stretching forces. Moreover, it was found that the myosin-II activity promoter calyculin-A has little effect on the cellular response, while the inhibitor blebbistatin suppresses cell and focal adhesion alignment and reduces focal adhesion density. These results confirm that similar internal structures involved in sensing and responding to strain direction and amplitude are also key players in strain gradient mechanosensing and avoidance.', u'/content/early/2016/12/21/095976', [u'Biophysics'], [u'University of Ottawa;', u'Carleton University']]
[u'Using Single Nucleotide Variations in Cancer Single-Cell RNA-Seq Data for Subpopulation Identification and Genotype-phenotype Linkage Analysis', ['Olivier B. Poirion', 'Xun Zhu', 'Travers Ching', 'Lana X. Garmire'], u'December 21, 2016.', u'Characterization of subpopulations is a key challenge in the emerging field of single-cell RNA-seq (scRNA-seq). In scRNA-seq data, gene expression has been used as feature to detect subpopulations, however, this data type is subject to significant amount of noise. Unconventionally, we propose to use filtered, effective and expressed nucleotide variations (eeSNVs) information from scRNA-seq data as improved predictive features for subpopulation identification. We developed a linear modeling framework called SSrGE (Sparse SNV inference to reflect Gene Expression) to detect eeSNVs that are associated with gene expression profiles. In all the datasets tested, these eeSNVs show better accuracy than gene expression for retrieving cell subpopulations. Moreover, bipartite graphs of cells in combination with eeSNVs have better visual representation of the different cell subpopulations than the other methods that use gene expression data. We ranked genes, according to their eeSNVs in the cancer scRNA-seq data, and found that genes in antigen processing and presentation pathway have top ranked eeSNVs. They include HLA-A, HLA-B, HLA-C and HLA-DRA in Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) complex, and B2M in histocompatibility complex MHC. Moreover, previously experimentally validated cancer relevant genes, such as KRAS and SPARC, are highly ranked for eeSNVs too. In summary, we emphasize that SNV features hidden in scRNA-seq data have merits for both subpopulation identification and linkage of genotype-phenotype relationship. The computational method is freely available at https://github.com/lanagarmire/SSrGE.', u'/content/early/2016/12/21/095810', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Hawaii Cancer Center']]
[u'Statistical testing and power analysis for brain-wide association study', ['Weikang Gong', 'Lin Wan', 'Wenlian Lu', 'Liang Ma', 'Fan Cheng', 'Wei Cheng', 'Stefan Gruenewald', 'Jianfeng Feng'], u'December 21, 2016.', u'Brain-wide association study (BWAS) is analogous to the successful genome-wide association study (GWAS) in the genetics field, aims to identify the voxel-wise functional connectome variations associated with complex traits. Although it has been applied to several mental disorders such as schizophrenia, autism and depression, its statistical foundations are still lacking. Therefore, we herein report the development of a rigorous statistical framework for link-wise significance testing and theoretical power analysis based on the random field theory. Peak- and cluster-level inferences are generalized to analyze functional connectivities. A novel method to identify phenotype associated voxels based on functional connectivity pattern is also proposed. Our method reduces the computational complexity of permutation-based approach in controlling the false positive rate and provides robust and reproducible findings in several real datasets, such as the 1000 Functional Connectomes Project (1000 FCP), Autism Brain Imaging Data Exchange (ABIDE), Center for Biomedical Research Excellence (COBRE) and others.', u'/content/early/2016/12/21/089870', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Chinese Academy of Sciences;', u'Fudan University']]
[u'Targeted degradation of CTCF decouples local insulation of chromosome domains from higher-order genomic compartmentalization', ['Elphege P Nora', 'Anton Goloborodko', 'Anne-Laure Valton', 'Johan Gibcus', 'Alec Uebsersohn', 'Nezar Abdennur', 'Job Dekker', 'Leonid Mirny', 'Benoit Bruneau'], u'December 21, 2016.', u'The molecular mechanisms underlying folding of mammalian chromosomes remain poorly understood. The transcription factor CTCF is a candidate regulator of chromosomal structure. Using the auxin-inducible degron system in mouse embryonic stem cells, we show that CTCF is absolutely and dose-dependently required for looping between CTCF target sites and segmental organization into topologically associating domains (TADs). Restoring CTCF reinstates proper architecture on altered chromosomes, indicating a powerful instructive function for CTCF in chromatin folding, and CTCF remains essential for TAD organization in non-dividing cells. Surprisingly, active and inactive genome compartments remain properly segregated upon CTCF depletion, revealing that compartmentalization of mammalian chromosomes emerges independently of proper insulation of TADs. Further, our data supports that CTCF mediates transcriptional insulator function through enhancer-blocking but not direct chromatin barrier activity. These results define the functions of CTCF in chromosome folding, and provide new fundamental insights into the rules governing mammalian genome organization.', u'/content/early/2016/12/21/095802', [u'Genomics'], [u'Gladstone Institute of Cardiovascular Disease;', u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology;', u'University of Massachusetts Medical School;', u'Berkeley University']]
