[u'Revealing unobserved factors underlying cortical activity using a rectified latent variable model applied to neural population recordings', ['Matthew R Whiteway', 'Daniel A Butts'], u'August 29, 2016.', u'The activity of sensory cortical neurons is not only driven by external stimuli, but is also shaped by other sources of input to the cortex. Unlike external stimuli these other sources of input are challenging to experimentally control or even observe, and as a result contribute to variability of neuronal responses to sensory stimuli. However, such sources of input are likely not \u201cnoise\u201d, and likely play an integral role in sensory cortex function. Here, we introduce the rectified latent variable model (RLVM) in order to identify these sources of input using simultaneously recorded cortical neuron populations. The RLVM is novel in that it employs non-negative (rectified) latent variables, and is able to be much less restrictive in the mathematical constraints on solutions due to the use an autoencoder neural network to initialize model parameters. We show the RLVM outperforms principal component analysis, factor analysis and independent component analysis across a variety of measures using simulated data. We then apply this model to the 2-photon imaging of hundreds of simultaneously recorded neurons in mouse primary somatosensory cortex during a tactile discrimination task. Across many experiments, the RLVM identifies latent variables related to both the tactile stimulation as well as non-stimulus aspects of the behavioral task, with a majority of activity explained by the latter. These results suggest that properly identifying such latent variables is necessary for a full understanding of sensory cortical function, and demonstrates novel methods for leveraging large population recordings to this end.', u'/content/early/2016/08/29/072173', [], [u'University of Maryland']]
[u'Degradation of non-methylated DNA by MsPJI impairs its usefulness as epigenetic tool', ['Maria Belen Jerez', 'Maximiliano Juri Ayub'], u'August 29, 2016.', u'DNA treatment with sensitive and/or dependent restriction enzymes, followed by PCR amplification is a widely used approach for testing CpG methylation. Recently, MspJI has been characterized as a promisory tool for epigenetic analyses. In the present report, we describe that MspJI shows significant activity against non-methylated DNA, suggesting that additional caution and improvements would be required before applying this enzyme as a routine epigenetic tool.', u'/content/early/2016/08/29/072090', [], [u'UNSL-IMIBIO;', u'IMIBIO-SL']]
[u'panX: pan-genome analysis and exploration', ['Wei Ding', 'Franz Baumdicker', 'Richard A Neher'], u'August 29, 2016.', u'Horizontal transfer, gene loss, and gene duplication result in dynamic bacterial genomes subject to a complex mixture of different modes of evolution. Closely related strains can differ in the presence or absence of many genes, and the total number of distinct genes found in a set of related isolates -- the pan-genome -- is often many times larger than the genome of individual isolates. We have developed a pipeline for pan-genome analysis and a web-based visualization software for interactive exploration of the pan-genome. The visualization allows rapid filtering of and searching for genes. For each gene cluster, panX displays an alignment, a phylogenetic tree, maps mutations within that cluster to the branches of the tree, and infers loss and gain of genes on the core-genome phylogeny. PanX is available at http://pangenome.de. User generated pan-genomes can be visualized either using a custom web-server or by serving panX locally as stand-alone browser-based application.', u'/content/early/2016/08/29/072082', [], [u'Max Planck Institute for Developmental Biology;', u'Albert-Ludwigs University of Freiburg']]
[u'Evaluation of GRCh38 and de novo haploid genome assemblies demonstrates the enduring quality of the reference assembly', ['Valerie A Schneider', 'Tina Graves Lindsay', 'Kerstin Howe', 'Nathan Bouk', 'Hsiu-Chuan Chen', 'Paul A. Kitts', 'Terence D Murphy', 'Kim D. Pruitt', 'Francoise Thibaud-Nissen', 'Derek Albracht', 'Robert S Fulton', 'Milinn Kremitzki', 'Vince Magrini', 'Chris Markovic', 'Sean McGrath', 'Karyn Melz Steinberg', 'Kate Auger', 'Will Chow', 'Joanna Collins', 'Glenn Harden', 'Tim Hubbard', 'Sarah Pelan', 'Jared T Simpson', 'Glen Threadgold', 'James Torrance', 'Jonathan Wood', 'Laura Clarke', 'Sergey Koren', 'Matthew Boitano', 'Heng Li', 'Chen-Shan Chin', 'Adam M. Phillippy', 'Richard Durbin', 'Richard K Wilson', 'Paul Flicek', 'Deanna M Church'], u'August 29, 2016.', u"The human reference genome assembly plays a central role in nearly all aspects of today's basic and clinical research. GRCh38 is the first coordinate-changing assembly update since 2009 and reflects the resolution of roughly 1000 issues and encompasses modifications ranging from thousands of single base changes to megabase-scale path reorganizations, gap closures and localization of previously orphaned sequences. We developed a new approach to sequence generation for targeted base updates and used data from new genome mapping technologies and single haplotype resources to identify and resolve larger assembly issues. For the first time, the reference assembly contains sequence-based representations for the centromeres. We also expanded the number of alternate loci to create a reference that provides a more robust representation of human population variation. We demonstrate that the updates render the reference an improved annotation substrate, alter read alignments in unchanged regions and impact variant interpretation at clinically relevant loci. We additionally evaluated a collection of new de novo long-read haploid assemblies and conclude that while the new assemblies compare favorably to the reference with respect to continuity, error rate, and gene completeness, the reference still provides the best representation for complex genomic regions and coding sequences. We assert that the collected updates in GRCh38 make the newer assembly a more robust substrate for comprehensive analyses that will promote our understanding of human biology and advance our efforts to improve health.", u'/content/early/2016/08/29/072116', [], [u'NIH/NLM/NCBI;', u'McDonnell Genome Institute at Washington University;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'Queen Mary University of London;', u'Ontario Institute for Cancer Research and University of Toronto;', u'EBI;', u'NIH/NHGRI;', u'Pacific Biosciences;', u'Broad Institute;', u'National Human Genome Research Institute, National Institutes of Health;', u'Sanger Institute;', u'European Bioinformatics Institute;', u'10X Genomics']]
[u'Pollinator species traits do not predict either response to agricultural intensification or functional contribution', ['Ignasi Bartomeus', 'Daniel Cariveau', 'Tina Harrison', 'Rachael Winfree'], u'August 29, 2016.', u"1. The response and effect trait framework, if supported empirically, would provide for powerful and general predictions about how biodiversity loss will lead to loss in ecosystem function.\n2. This framework proposes that species traits will explain how different species respond to disturbance (i.e. response traits) as well as their contribution to ecosystem function (i.e. effect traits). However, predictive response and effect traits remain elusive for most systems.\n3. Here, we present detailed data on crop pollination services provided by native, wild bees to explore the role of six commonly used species traits in determining how crop pollination is affected by increasing agricultural intensification. Analyses were conducted in parallel for three crop systems (watermelon, cranberry, and blueberry) located within the same geographical region (mid-Atlantic USA).\n4. Bee species traits did not strongly predict species' response to any agricultural intensification process, and the few traits that were weakly predictive were not consistent across crops. Similarly, no trait predicted species' overall functional contribution in any of the three crop systems, although body size was a good predictor of per capita efficiency in two systems.\n5. Pollinator traits may be useful for understanding ecological processes in some systems, but thus far we are unable to make generalizable predictions regarding species responses to land-use change and its effect on the delivery of ecosystem services.", u'/content/early/2016/08/29/072132', [], [u'Estacion Biologica de Donana (EBD-CSIC);', u'University of Minnesota;', u'Rutgers University;', u'Rutgers university']]
[u'The Reading Frame Surveillance Hypothesis and the Origins of RNAi', ['John T. Gray'], u'August 29, 2016.', u'Pathways of gene regulation mediated by Argonaute proteins derive specificity from short, bound RNA molecules and are increasingly implicated in broad areas of biology, however a unifying principle for the origin of these pathways has been lacking.  I here present a hypothetical Reading Frame Surveillance (RFS) model which proposes that primordial ribosomes utilized evenly spaced cleavage of a complementary RNA to monitor and preserve the reading frame during translation of a message.  Furthermore, I show how published data from the fields of gene silencing, RNA processing, antigen presentation, development, and oncogenesis support the possibility that vestiges of this primordial pathway are extant and contribute to these processes.  The model provides rational mechanistic interpretations of the data leading to multiple testable hypotheses in each of these areas.  In particular, the argument is put forward that not only does an RNA dependent RNA polymerase likely exist today in vertebrates, as has been proposed previously, but that it also routinely copies transcribed RNAs in the nucleus, and is likely a ribozyme.', u'/content/early/2016/08/29/071985', [], [u'Audentes Therapeutics, Inc.']]
[u'Astrocytes locally translate transcripts in their peripheral processes', ['Kristina Sakers', 'Allison M Lake', 'Rohan Khazanchi', 'Rebecca Ouwenga', 'Michael J Vasek', 'Adish Dani', 'Joseph D Dougherty'], u'August 29, 2016.', u'Local translation in neuronal processes is key to the alteration of synaptic strength that contributes to long term potentiation and potentially learning and memory. Here, we present evidence that astrocytes also have ribosomes in their peripheral and perisynaptic processes, that new protein synthesis is detectable in the astrocyte periphery, and that this localized translation is both sequence dependent and enriched for particular biological functions. Enriched transcripts include key glial regulators of synaptic refinement suggesting that local production of these proteins may support microscale alterations of adjacent synapses.', u'/content/early/2016/08/29/071795', [], [u'School of Medicine, Washington University in St Louis;', u'School of Medicine, Washington University in Saint Louis']]
[u'How ecological networks evolve', ['Timothee Poisot', 'Daniel Stouffer'], u'August 29, 2016.', u"Ecological networks represent the backbone of biodiversity. As species diversify over macro-evolutionary time-scales, the structure of these networks changes; this happens because species are gained and lost, and therefore add or remove interactions in their communities. The mechanisms underlying such dynamic changes in ecological network structure, however, remain poorly understood. Here we show that several types of ecological interactions share common evolutionary mechanisms that can be parametrised based on extant interaction data. In particular, we found that a model mimicking birth-death processes for species interactions describes the structure of extant networks remarkably well. Moreover, the various types of ecological interactions we considered--seed dispersal, herbivory, parasitism, bacteriophagy, and pollination--only differed in the position they occupy in the parameters' multi-dimensional space. Notably, we found no clustering of parameters values between antagonistic and mutualistic interactions. Our results provide a common modelling framework for the evolution of ecological networks that we anticipate will contribute to the greater consideration of the explicit role played by species interactions in models of macro-evolution and adaptive radiations.", u'/content/early/2016/08/29/071993', [], [u'Universite de Montreal;', u'University of Canterbury']]
[u'Calcium Dependent Gap Junction Plasticity: Modulation of Electrotonic Coupling in the Inferior Olive Glomerulus', ['Jornt De Gruijl', 'Piotr Sokol', 'Mario Negrello', 'Cris I De Zeeuw'], u'August 29, 2016.', u'Dendritic spines in glomeruli of the inferior olive are coupled by gap junctions and receive both inhibitory and excitatory inputs, yet the function of this configuration remains to be elucidated. Lefler et al. (2014) show that the GABAergic input from the cerebellar nuclei to neurons of the inferior olive dynamically affects both their coupling and subthreshold oscillations for short periods, while Mathy et al. (2014) and Turecek et al. (2014) show that the glutamatergic input to the olivary neurons can instruct plasticity of coupled dendrites in the long-term. The data sets from all three papers can be reconciled when put together in a model of the neuropil comprising the characteristic olivary glomeruli.', u'/content/early/2016/08/29/072041', [], [u'Netherlands Institute for Neuroscience;', u'Erasmus MC']]
[u'The Effects of Pitch Shifts on Delay-induced Changes in Vocal Sequencing in a Songbird', ['MacKenzie Wyatt', 'Emily A. Berthiaume', 'Conor W. Kelly', 'Samuel J. Sober'], u'August 29, 2016.', u'Like human speech, vocal behavior in songbirds depends critically on auditory feedback. In both humans and songbirds, vocal skills are acquired by a process of imitation whereby current vocal production is compared to an acoustic target. Similarly, performance in adulthood relies strongly on auditory feedback, and online manipulations of auditory signals can dramatically alter acoustic production even after vocalizations have been well learned. Artificially delaying auditory feedback can disrupt both speech and birdsong, and internal delays in auditory feedback have been hypothesized as a cause of vocal dysfluency in persons who stutter. Furthermore, in both song and speech online shifts of the pitch (fundamental frequency) of auditory feedback lead to compensatory changes in vocal pitch for small perturbations, but larger pitch shifts produce smaller changes in vocal output. Intriguingly, large pitch shifts can partially restore normal speech in some dysfluent speakers, suggesting that the effects of auditory feedback delays might be ameliorated by online pitch manipulations. While birdsong provides a promising model system for understanding speech production, the interaction between sensory feedback delays and pitch shifts have not yet been assessed in songbirds. To investigate this, we asked whether the addition of a pitch shift modulates delay-induced changes in Bengalese finch song, hypothesizing that pitch shifts would reduce the effects of feedback delays. Compared the effects of delays alone, combined delays and pitch shifts resulted in a significant reduction in behavioral changes in one type of sequencing (branch points) but not another (distribution of repeated syllables).', u'/content/early/2016/08/29/072009', [], [u'Emory University']]
[u'Remating responses are shaped by male post-copulatory manipulation but not reinforcement in D. pseudoobscura', ['Jeremy S Davis', 'Dean M Castillo', 'Leonie C Moyle'], u'August 29, 2016.', u'Both pre-mating and post-mating prezygotic behaviors have been shown to be the target of reinforcing selection, but it remains unclear whether remating behaviors experience reinforcement, although they can also influence offspring identity and limit formation of hybrids. Here we evaluated evidence for reinforcing selection on remating behaviors in D. pseudoobscura, by comparing remating traits in females from populations historically allopatric and sympatric with D. persimilis. We found that the propensity to remate was not higher in sympatric females, compared to allopatric females, regardless of whether the first mated male was heterospecific or conspecific.  Moreover, remating behavior did not contribute to interspecific reproductive isolation among any population; that is, females showed no higher propensity to remate following a heterospecific first mating than they were following a conspecific first mating. Instead, we found that females are less likely to remate after initial matings with unfamiliar males, regardless of species identity, consistent with females being poorly defended against post-copulatory manipulation by males with whom they have not co-evolved. Our results are generally inconsistent with reinforcement on remating traits, and suggest that this behavior is more strongly shaped by the consequences of local antagonistic male-female interactions than interactions with heterospecifics.', u'/content/early/2016/08/29/072066', [], [u'Indiana University;', u'Indiana Univeristy']]
[u'The dichotomous effects of caffeine on homologous recombination in mammalian cells', ['Alissa C Magwood', 'Maureen M Mundia', 'Dick D Mosser', 'Mark D Baker'], u'August 29, 2016.', u'This study was initiated to examine the effects of caffeine on the DNA damage response (DDR) and homologous recombination (HR).  An initial 2 h exposure to 5 mM caffeine slowed a fraction of the cells in G1, but thereafter, continued caffeine exposure permitted this cell fraction to progress through the cycle until they eventually stalled at G2/M and underwent apoptosis.  This prolonged caffeine exposure also induced a strong DDR along with subsequent activation of wild-type p53 protein.  An unexpected observation was the caffeine-induced depletion of Rad51 (and Brca2) proteins. Consequently, caffeine-treated cells were expected to be inefficient in HR. However, a dichotomy in the HR response of cells to caffeine treatment was revealed. Caffeine treatment rendered cells significantly better at performing the nascent DNA synthesis that accompanies the early strand invasion steps of HR.  Conversely, the increase in nascent DNA synthesis did not translate into a higher level of gene targeting events. Levels of Rad51 appear to be irrelevant. Thus, prolonged caffeine exposure stalls the cell cycle, induces a p53-mediated apoptotic response and a down-regulation of critical HR proteins, and stimulates early steps of HR, but not the formation of complete repair products.', u'/content/early/2016/08/29/072058', [], [u'University of Guelph']]
[u'ENTROPY IN PRIMARY SENSORY AREAS LOWER THAN IN ASSOCIATIVE ONES: THE BRAIN LIES IN HIGHER DIMENSIONS THAN THE ENVIRONMENT', ['James Peters', 'Arturo Tozzi', 'Ebubekir Inan', 'Sheela Ramanna'], u'August 29, 2016.', u"The brain, rather than integrate sensory inputs and concentrate them into concepts as currently believed, appears to increase the complexity from the perceived object to the idea of it.  Topological models predict indeed an increase in dimensions and symmetries from the environment to the higher activities of the brain.  Models predict that informational entropy in the primary sensory areas must be lower than in the higher associative ones.  In order to demonstrate the novel hypothesis, we introduce a method for the measurement of information in fMRI neuroimages, i.e., nucleus clustering's Renyi entropy derived from strong proximities in feature-based Voronoi tessellations, e.g., maximal nucleus clustering. The technique facilitates the objective detection of entropy/information in zones of fMRI images generally not taken into account.  We found that the Renyi entropy is higher in associative cortices than in the visual primary ones.  It suggests that the brain lies in higher dimensions than the environment and that it does not concentrate, but rather dilutes the message coming from external inputs.", u'/content/early/2016/08/29/071977', [], [u'University of Manitoba;', u'Ad\u0131yaman University;', u'Ad\u0131yaman University, Turkey']]
[u'Dissolved organic matter and inorganic mercury loadings favor novel methylators and fermentation metabolisms in oligotrophic sediments', ['Emily B. Graham', 'Joseph E. Knelman', 'Rachel S. Gabor', 'Shon Schooler', 'Diane M. McKnight', 'Diana Nemergut'], u'August 29, 2016.', u'Advances in genetics have allowed for greater investigation into the complex microbial communities mediating mercury methylation in the environment. In wetlands in particular, dissolved organic matter (DOM) may influence methylmercury production both through direct chemical interactions with mercury and through substrate effects on the environmental microbiome. We conducted microcosm experiments in two chemically disparate wetland environments (unvegetated and vegetated sediments) to examine the impact of DOM from leachate of local vegetation and inorganic mercury loadings on microbial community membership, metagenomic potential, DOM processing, and methylmercury production. We show that while DOM loadings impacted the microbiome in both environment types, sediment with high organic carbon content was more resistant than oligotrophic sediment to changes in microbial community structure and methylmercury production. We identify putative chemoorganotrophic methylators within the class Clostridia as primary community members associated with methylation rates in contrast to previous work focusing on microorganisms involved in sulfur, iron, and methane cycling. Metagenomic shifts toward fermentation, and secondarily iron metabolisms, as well as degradation of complex DOM indicated by fluorescence indices further support the involvement of rarely acknowledged biogeochemical pathways in mercury toxicity. We therefore propose that DOM addition in our system generates methylmercury production either 1) via direct methylation by fermenting bacteria or 2) via enhancing the bioavailability of simple carbon compounds for sulfate- and iron-reducing bacteria through breakdown of complex DOM. Our results demonstrate variation in sediment methylmercury production in response to DOM loading across geochemical environments and provide a mechanistic framework for understanding linkages between environmental microbiomes, carbon cycling, and mercury toxicity.', u'/content/early/2016/08/29/072017', [], [u'Pacific Northwest National Laboratory;', u'Joint Genome Institute;', u'University of Utah;', u'LSNERR;', u'University of Colorado at Boulder']]
[u'Interactions between helicase and primase are crucial for DNA replication in the enteropathogen Clostridium difficile', ['Erika Van Eijk', 'Vasileios Paschalis', 'Matthew Green', 'Annemieke H. Friggen', 'Marilynn A. Larson', 'Keith Spriggs', 'Geoffrey Briggs', 'Panos Soultanas', 'Wiep Klaas Smits'], u'August 29, 2016.', u'DNA replication is an essential and conserved process in all domains of life and may serve as a\ntarget for the development of new antimicrobials. However, such developments are hindered by a limited understanding of DNA replication in pathogenic micro-organisms. Clostridium difficile is the main cause of health-care associated diarrhea and its DNA replication machinery is virtually uncharacterized. We identified the replicative helicase (CD3657), the helicase loader ATPase (CD3654) and primase (CD1454) of C. difficile and reconstitute helicase and primase activity in vitro. We demonstrate a direct and ATP-dependent interaction between the helicase\nloader and the helicase. We find that helicase activity is dependent on the presence of primase\nin vitro. The trinucleotide specificity of primase, which we find to be determined by a single lysine residue, is similar to primase of the extreme thermophile Aquifex aeolicus but the presence of helicase allows more efficient de novo synthesis of RNA primers from non-preferred trinucleotides.\nThus, helicase-primase interactions constitute a crucial aspect of DNA replication initiation in C.\ndifficile and helicase loading and activation in this organism differs critically from that of the\nGram-positive model organism Bacillus subtilis.', u'/content/early/2016/08/29/071829', [], [u'Leiden University Medical Center;', u'University of Nottingham;', u'University of Nebraska Medical Center']]
