[u'Regulation of the JMJD3 (KDM6B) histone demethylase in glioblastoma stem cells by STAT3', ['Maureen M Sherey-Lynes', 'Sejuti Sengupta', 'Shreya Kulkarni', 'Brent Cochran'], u'July 9, 2016.', u'The growth factor and cytokine regulated transcription factor STAT3 is required for the self-renewal of several stem cell types including tumor stem cells from glioblastoma.  Here we show that STAT3 inhibition leads to the upregulation of the histone H3K27me2/3 demethylase Jmjd3 (KDM6B), which can reverse polycomb complex-mediated repression of tissue specific genes. STAT3 binds to the Jmjd3 promoter, suggesting that Jmjd3 is a direct target of STAT3.  Overexpression of Jmjd3 slows glioblastoma stem cell growth and neurosphere formation, whereas knockdown of Jmjd3 rescues the STAT3 inhibitor-induced neurosphere formation defect.  Consistent with this observation, STAT3 inhibition leads to histone H3K27 demethylation of neural differentiation genes, such as Myt1, FGF21, and GDF15. These results demonstrate that the regulation of Jmjd3 by STAT3 maintains repression of differentiation specific genes and is therefore important for the maintenance of self-renewal of normal neural and glioblastoma stem cells.', u'/content/early/2016/07/09/063040', [], [u'Tufts University;', u'Tufts University School of Medicine']]
[u'RNA-seq mixology: designing realistic control experiments to compare protocols and analysis methods', ['Aliaksei Z Holik', 'Charity W Law', 'Ruijie Liu', 'Zeya Wang', 'Wenyi Wang', 'Jaeil Ahn', 'Marie-Liesse Asselin-Labat', 'Gordon K Smyth', 'Matthew E Ritchie'], u'July 9, 2016.', u'Background: Carefully designed control experiments provide a gold standard for benchmarking new platforms, protocols and pipelines in genomics research. RNA profiling control studies frequently use the mixture design, which takes two distinct samples and combines them in known proportions to induce predictable expression changes for every gene. Current mixture experiments have low noise and simulate relatively large expression changes by comparing RNA from different tissues, making them atypical of regular experiments.\nResults: To generate a more realistic RNA-sequencing control data set, two cell lines of the same cancer type were mixed in various proportions. Noise was added by independently preparing, mixing and degrading a subset of the samples. The systematic gene-expression changes induced by this design were used to benchmark different library preparation kits (standard poly-A versus total RNA with Ribozero depletion) and analysis pipelines for differential gene expression, differential splicing and deconvolution analysis. More signal for introns and various RNA classes (ncRNA, snRNA, snoRNA) and less variability after degradation was observed using the total RNA kit. For differential expression analysis, voom with quality weights marginally outperformed other popular methods, while for differential splicing, the DEXSeq method was found to be the most sensitive but also the most inconsistent. For sample deconvolution analysis, DeMix outperformed IsoPure convincingly.\nConclusions: RNA-sequencing control experiments such as this provide a valuable resource for benchmarking different sequencing protocols and data pre-processing workflows. We have demonstrated that with a few extra steps, data with noise characteristics much more similar to regular RNA-sequencing experiments can be obtained.', u'/content/early/2016/07/09/063008', [], [u'The Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research;', u'Rice University;', u'The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center;', u'Georgetown University']]
[u'A nonsense mutation in the COL7A1 gene causes epidermolysis bullosa in Vorderwald cattle', ['Hubert Pausch', 'Simon Ammermueller', 'Christine Wurmser', 'Henning Hamann', 'Jens Tetens', 'Cord Droegemueller', 'Ruedi Fries'], u'July 9, 2016.', u'Background: The widespread use of individual sires for artificial insemination promotes the propagation of recessive conditions. Inadvertent matings between unnoticed carriers of deleterious alleles may result in the manifestation of fatal phenotypes in their progeny. Breeding consultants and farmers reported on Vorderwald calves with a congenital skin disease. The clinical findings in affected calves were compatible with epidermolysis bullosa.\nResults: Pedigree analysis indicated autosomal recessive inheritance of epidermolysis bullosa in Vorderwald cattle. We genotyped two diseased and 41 healthy animals at 40,792 single nucleotide polymorphisms and performed whole-genome haplotype-based association testing, which allowed us to map the locus responsible for the skin disease to the distal end of bovine chromosome 22 (P=8.0x10-14). The analysis of whole-genome re-sequencing data of 1686 animals including one diseased calf, three obligate mutation carriers and 1682 healthy animals from various bovine breeds revealed a nonsense mutation (ss1995911272, p.Arg1588X) in the COL7A1 gene that segregates with the disease. The same mutation was previously detected in three calves with dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa from the Rotes Hoehenvieh cattle breed. We show that diseased animals from Vorderwald and Rotes Hoehenvieh cattle are identical by descent for an 8.72 Mb haplotype encompassing ss1995911272 indicating they inherited the deleterious allele from a recent common ancestor.\nConclusions: Autosomal recessive epidermolysis bullosa in Vorderwald and Rotes Hoehenvieh cattle is caused by a nonsense mutation in the COL7A1 gene. Our findings demonstrate that recessive deleterious alleles may segregate across cattle populations without apparent admixture. The identification of the causal mutation now enables the reliable detection of carriers of the defective allele. Genome-based mating strategies can avoid inadvertent matings of carrier animals thereby preventing the birth of homozygous calves that suffer from a painful skin disease.', u'/content/early/2016/07/09/062968', [], [u'Technische Universitaet Muenchen;', u'Technische Universitet Muenchen;', u'Federal Bureau for Geo Information and Rural Development of Baden-Wuerttemberg;', u'Christian-Albrechts-University Kiel;', u'University Bern']]
[u'Past climate changes, population dynamics and the origin of Bison in Europe', ['Diyendo Massilani', 'Silvia Guimaraes', 'Jean-Philip Brugal', 'E. Andrew Bennett', 'Malgorzata Tokarska', 'Rose-Marie Arbogast', 'Gennady Baryshnikov', 'Gennady Boeskorov', 'Jean-Christophe Castel', 'Sergey Davydov', 'Stephane Madelaine', 'Olivier Putelat', 'Natalia Spasskaya', 'Hans-Peter Uerpmann', 'Thierry Grange', 'Eva-Maria Geigl'], u'July 9, 2016.', u"Climatic and environmental fluctuations as well as anthropogenic pressure have led to the extinction of much of Europe's megafauna. Here we show that the emblematic European bison has experienced several waves of population expansion, contraction and extinction during the last 50,000 years in Europe, culminating in a major reduction of genetic diversity during the Holocene. Fifty-seven complete and partial ancient mitogenomes from throughout Europe, the Caucausus and Siberia reveal that three populations of wisent (Bison bonasus) and steppe bison (B. priscus) alternated in Western Europe correlating with climate-induced environmental changes. The Late Pleistocene European steppe bison originated from northern Eurasia whereas the modern wisent population emerged from a refuge in the southern Caucasus after the last glacial maximum. A population overlap in a transition period is reflected in ca. 36,000 year-old paintings in the French Chauvet cave. Bayesian analyses of these complete ancient mitogenomes yielded new dates of the various branching events during the evolution of Bison and its radiation with Bos that lead us to propose that the genetic affiliation between the wisent and cattle mitogenomes result from incomplete lineage sorting rather than post-speciation gene flow.", u'/content/early/2016/07/09/063032', [], [u'Institut Jacques Monod, CNRS-University Paris Diderot;', u'Aix-Marseille University, UMR 7269 LAMPEA;', u'Mammal Research Institute Polish Academy of Sciences, Genetics and Evolution Department;', u'CNRS/UMR 7044/MISHA;', u'Zoological Institute, Russian Academy of Sciences;', u'Diamond and Precious Metal Geology Institute, Siberian Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences;', u'Natural history museum Geneva, Department of Archeozoology;', u'North-East Science Station, Pacific Institute of Geography, Far East Branch, Russian Acad of Science;', u'National Museum of Prehistory;', u'Pole d Archeologie Interdepartemental;', u'Zoological Museum of the Lomonosow Moscow State University;', u'Institute for Ancient and Early History and Archeology  and Archeology of the Middle Ages;', u'Institut Jacques Monod - CNRS, University Paris Diderot;', u'Institut Jacques Monod-CNRS, University Paris Diderot']]
