[u'Quantifying variation by the ratio of CSS to UCSS', ['Mohammadhadi Pahlevani'], u'December 26, 2016.', u'The variance, the average of squared deviations of data values from their mean, is the most widely used criterion for measuring the variation. Small amounts of the variance indicate that the values tend to be close to the mean and its high amounts are indicative of more dispersion around the mean. However, when dealing with a single variable or variables with different measuring units, variance can not give us a proper understanding of the actual extent of variation. RCU, the ratio of corrected sum of squares (CSS) to the uncorrected sum of squares (UCSS) can quantify variation too. The values of RCU vary from zero, for a situation in which all values are the same, to 100 % when they are completely different or symmetric. To compare the efficiency of RCU and variance for measuring variation, data of seven variables with different units of measurement for 17 wheat cultivars including yield (g/plant), spikes (numbers), height (cm), earliness (days), viability (%), hectoliter (kg/hectoliter) and EC (micromohs/cm) were used. Variance of these variables respectively was 83.34, 72.01, 353.23, 81.48, 5.31, 69.52 and 7167.47. The highest and lowest RCU was obtained for spikes (9.38 %) and viability (0.05 %), respectively. The RCU for yield, height, earliness, hectoliter and EC was 8.97, 2.67, 0.29, 1.30 and 2.85 %, respectively. The RCUs were somewhat similar to coefficient of variation of the variables. Based on the RCU, the extent of variation was medium for spikes and viability and was low for the other variables. As a result RCU could be used as a simple criterion to quantify the actual extent of variation in the data.', u'/content/early/2016/12/26/096784', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Gorgan University of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources']]
[u'Evolutionary history of the brown rat: out of southern East Asia and selection', ['Lin Zeng', 'Chen Ming', 'Yan Li', 'Ling-Yan Su', 'Yan-Hua Su', 'Newton O. Otecko', 'Ambroise Dalecky', 'Stephen Donnellan', 'Ken Aplin', 'Xiao-Hui Liu', 'Ying Song', 'Zhi-Bin Zhang', 'Ali Esmailizadeh', 'Saeed S. Sohrabi', 'Hojjat Asadollahpour Nanaei', 'He-Qun Liu', 'Ming-Shan Wang', 'Solimane Ag Atteynine', 'Gerard Rocamora', 'Fabrice Brescia', 'Serge Morand', 'David M. Irwin', 'Ming-sheng Peng', 'Yong-Gang Yao', 'Hai-Peng Li', 'Dong-Dong Wu', 'Ya-Ping Zhang'], u'December 26, 2016.', u'The brown rat (Rattus norvegicus) is found wherever humans live and transmits many diseases, and its breeding produced the laboratory rat used widely in medical research. Here, we sequenced whole genomes from 118 rats to explore the origin and dispersal routes of the brown rat and the domestication of the laboratory rat. We showed that brown rats migrated about 3600 years ago from southern East Asia, rather than Northern Asia as formerly suggested, to the Middle East and then to Europe and Africa. Many genes involved in the immune system experienced positive selection in the wild brown rat, while genes involved in the nervous system and energy metabolism showed evidence of artificial selection during the domestication of laboratory strains. Our findings demystify the puzzling origin and migration of brown rats and reveal the impact of evolution and domestication on this animal.', u'/content/early/2016/12/26/096800', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Kunming Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences;', u'Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences;', u'Laboratory for Conservation and Utilization of Bio-resource, Yunnan University, China;', u'College of Animal Science and Technology, Yunnan Agricultural University, China;', u'Institut de Recherche pour le Developpement (Ird), CBGP, France;', u'University of Adelaide and the South Australian Museum, Adelaide, Australia;', u'Division of Mammals, National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution, Washington D.C,USA;', u'Institute of Plant Protection, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences;', u'Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences;', u'Shahid Bahonar University of Kerman, Kerman, Iran;', u'Institut de Recherche pour le Developpement (Ird), IMBE, Mali;', u'Island Biodiversity & Conservation center, University of Seychelles, P.O. Box, Mahe, Seychelles;', u'Institut Agronomique neo-Caledonien, Port Laguerre, Paita, New Caledonia;', u"CNRS-CIRAD, Centre d'Infectiologie Christophe Merieux du Laos, Vientiane, Lao PDR;", u'Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada']]
[u'Viral Quasispecies Reconstruction via Correlation Clustering', ['Somsubhra Barik', 'Shreepriya Das', 'Haris Vikalo'], u'December 26, 2016.', u'RNA viruses are characterized by high mutation rates that give rise to populations of closely related viral genomes, the\nso-called viral quasispecies. The underlying genetic heterogeneity occurring as a result of natural mutation-selection process enables\nthe virus to adapt and proliferate in face of changing conditions over the course of an infection. Determining genetic diversity (i.e.,\ninferring viral haplotypes and their proportions in the population) of an RNA virus is essential for the understanding of its origin and\nmutation patterns, and the development of effective drug treatments. In this paper we present QSdpR, a novel correlation clustering\nformulation of the quasispecies reconstruction problem which relies on semidefinite programming to accurately estimate the\nsub-species and their frequencies in a mixed population. Extensive comparisons with existing methods are presented on both synthetic\nand real data, demonstrating efficacy and superior performance of QSdpR.', u'/content/early/2016/12/26/096768', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'The University of Texas at Austin;', u"Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School."]]
[u'A highly parallel strategy for storage of digital information in living cells', ['Azat Akhmetov', 'Andrew Ellington', 'Edward Marcotte'], u'December 26, 2016.', u'Encoding arbitrary digital information in DNA has attracted attention as a potential avenue for large scale and long term data storage. However, in order to enable DNA data storage technologies there needs to be improvements in data storage fidelity (tolerance to mutation), the facility of writing and reading the data (biases and systematic error arising from synthesis and sequencing), and overall scalability. To this end, we have developed and implemented an encoding scheme that is suitable for detecting and correcting errors that may arise during storage, writing, and reading, such as those arising from nucleotide substitutions, insertions, and deletions. We propose a scheme for parallelized long term storage of encoded sequences that relies on overlaps rather than the address blocks found in previously published work. Using computer simulations, we illustrate the encoding, sequencing, decoding, and recovery of encoded information, ultimately demonstrating the possibility of a successful round-trip read/write. These demonstrations show that in theory a precise control over error tolerance is possible. Even after simulated degradation of DNA, recovery of original data is possible owing to the error correction capabilities built into the encoding strategy. A secondary advantage of our method is that the statistical characteristics (such as repetitiveness and GC-composition) of encoded sequences can also be tailored without sacrificing the overall ability to store large amounts of data. Finally, the combination of the overlap-based partitioning of data with the LZMA compression that is integral to encoding means that the entire sequence must be present for successful decoding. This feature enables inordinately strong encryptions. As a potential application, an encrypted pathogen genome could be could be distributed and carried by cells without danger of being expressed, and could not even be read out in the absence of the entire DNA consortium.', u'/content/early/2016/12/26/096792', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'University of Texas']]
[u'CART neuropeptide modulates the extended amygdalar CeA-vBNST circuit to gate expression of innate fear', ['Abhishek Rale', 'Ninad Shendye', 'Nishikant Subhedar', 'Aurnab Ghose'], u'December 26, 2016.', u'Innate fear is critical for the survival of animals and is under tight homeostatic control. Deregulation of innate fear processing is thought to underlie pathological phenotypes including, phobias and panic disorders. Although central processing of conditioned fear has been extensively studied, the circuitry and regulatory mechanisms subserving innate fear remain relatively poorly defined. \nIn this study, we identify cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) neuropeptide signalling in the central amygdala (CeA) - ventral bed nucleus of stria terminalis (vBNST) axis as a key modulator of innate fear expression. TMT, a component of fox faeces, induces a freezing response whose intensity is regulated by the extent of CART-signalling in the CeA neurons. Abrogation of CART activity in the CeA attenuates the freezing response and reduces activation of vBNST neurons. Conversely, ectopically elevated CART signalling in the CeA potentiates the fear response concomitant with enhanced vBNST activation. We show that local levels of CART signaling modulate the activation of CeA neurons by NMDA receptor mediated glutamatergic inputs, in turn, regulating activity in the vBNST.\nThis study identifies the extended amygdalar CeA-vBNST circuit as a CART modulated axis encoding innate fear. CART signaling regulates the glutamatergic excitatory drive in the CeA-vBNST circuit, in turn, gating the expression of the freezing response to TMT.', u'/content/early/2016/12/26/096610', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER)']]
