[u'How polio vaccination affects poliovirus transmission', ['Michael Famulare', 'Guillaume Chabot-Couture', 'Philip A Eckhoff', 'Hil Lyons', 'Kevin A McCarthy', 'Christian Selinger'], u'October 27, 2016.', u'A fundamental complexity of polio eradication is that the elimination of wild poliovirus (WPV) alters the risk-benefit profile of using oral polio vaccine (OPV)---as WPV is eliminated, OPV produces an increasing proportion of the paralytic disease burden since, in rare instances, OPV causes paralysis in vaccine recipients and generates circulating vaccine-derived polio outbreaks (cVDPV) in under-immunized populations. Therefore, to secure the success and long-term stability of polio eradication after the elimination of WPV, OPV use should eventually cease. Type 2 OPV (OPV2) was withdrawn from routine immunization (RI) in April 2016, but detection of type 2 cVDPV has necessitated the use of OPV2 in outbreak response. Thus the world today: RI with OPV2 has stopped, but OPV2 is needed to interrupt outbreaks, and any future OPV2 use several years hence will take place in a population with an unprecedented lack of type 2 immunity. To better understand the complex risk landscape of OPV cessation, we reproducibly summarized data spanning 75 years of polio literature detailing how vaccination affects individual-level susceptibility to infection and viral shedding. We then examined individual-level immunity in the context of close-contact transmission data from the USA and India to quantify the impacts of vaccination on transmission. Our results demonstrate that in settings with inadequate sanitation: (1) OPV has been effective in all populations because it blocks transmission locally, (2) cross-immunity against type 2 produced by bivalent OPV is insufficient to block OPV2 transmission, (3) IPV boosting after prior OPV or WPV exposure is effective for interrupting transmission in settings where inadequate or waning immunity permits significant re-infection, and (4) OPV transmission is limited more by population immunity than attenuation and so the risk of seeding new cVDPV with OPV use will increase substantially a few years after OPV cessation. We conclude with discussion of the implications for policy decisions about IPV and OPV use and vaccine research.', u'/content/early/2016/10/27/084012', [], [u'Institute for Disease Modeling']]
[u'An exactly solvable, spatial model of mutation accumulation in cancer', ['Chay Paterson', 'Martin A Nowak', 'Bartlomiej Waclaw'], u'October 27, 2016.', u'One of the hallmarks of cancer is the accumulation of driver mutations which increase the net reproductive rate of cancer cells and allow them to spread. This process has been studied in mathematical models of well mixed populations, and in computer simulations of three-dimensional spatial models. But the computational complexity of these more realistic, spatial models makes it difficult to simulate realistically large and clinically detectable solid tumours. Here we describe an exactly solvable mathematical model of a tumour featuring replication, mutation and local migration of cancer cells. The model predicts a quasi-exponential growth of large tumours even if different fragments of the tumour grow sub-exponentially due to nutrient and space limitations. The model reproduces clinically observed tumour growth times using biologically plausible rates for cell birth, death, and migration rates. We also show that the expected number of accumulated driver mutations increases exponentially in time if the average fitness gain per driver is constant, and that it reaches a plateau if the gains decrease over time. We discuss the realism of the underlying assumptions and possible extensions of the model.', u'/content/early/2016/10/27/084038', [], [u'The University of Edinburgh;', u'Harvard University']]
[u'MSMBuilder: Statistical Models for Biomolecular Dynamics', ['Matthew P Harrigan', 'Mohammad M Sultan', 'Carlos Xavier X Hernandez', 'Brooke E Husic', 'Peter Eastman', 'Christian R Schwantes', 'Kyle A Beauchamp', 'Robert T McGibbon', 'Vijay S Pande'], u'October 27, 2016.', u'MSMBuilder is a software package for building statistical models of high-dimensional time-series\ndata. It is designed with a particular focus on the analysis of atomistic simulations of biomolecular\ndynamics such as protein folding and conformational change. MSMBuilder is named for\nits ability to construct Markov State Models (MSMs), a class of models that has gained favor\namong computational biophysicists. In addition to both well-established and newer MSM methods,\nthe package includes complementary algorithms for understanding time-series data such as\nhidden Markov models (HMMs) and time-structure based independent component analysis (tICA).\nMSMBuilder boasts an easy to use command-line interface, as well as clear and consistent abstractions\nthrough its Python API (application programming interface). MSMBuilder is developed\nwith careful consideration for compatibility with the broader machine-learning community by following\nthe design of scikit-learn. The package is used primarily by practitioners of molecular\ndynamics but is just as applicable to other computational or experimental time-series measurements.', u'/content/early/2016/10/27/084020', [], [u'Stanford University;', u'Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center']]
[u'Transcriptomic Description of an Endogenous Female State in C. elegans', ['David Angeles-Albores', 'Daniel H. W. Leighton', 'Tiffany Tsou', 'Tiffany H Khaw', 'Igor Antoshechkin', 'Paul Sternberg'], u'October 27, 2016.', u'Understanding genome and gene function in a whole organism requires us to fully understand the life cycle and the physiology of the organism in question. Although it is traditionally though of as a hermaphrodite, C. elegans XX animals become (endogenous) females after 3 days of egg-laying. The molecular physiology of this state has not been studied as intensely as other parts of the life cycle, in spite of documented changes in behavior and metabolism that occur at this stage. To study the female state of C. elegans, we designed an experiment to measure the transcriptome of 1st day adult females, endogenous, 6th day adult females, as well as mutant feminized worms that never go through a hermaphrodite stage at these time points. Using this experimental design, we were able to measure the effects of biological aging from the transition into the female state.\nWe find that spermless young adult animals partially phenocopy 6 day old wild-type animals that have depleted their sperm after egg-laying, and that spermless animals also exhibit less transcriptomic changes associated with aging throughout these 6 days. Our results indicate that sperm loss triggers naturally ocurring transcriptomic changes', u'/content/early/2016/10/27/083113', [], [u'Caltech;', u'UCLA']]
[u'Mocap: Large-scale inference of transcription factor binding sites from chromatin accessibility', ['Xi Chen', 'Bowen Yu', 'Nicholas Carriero', 'Claudio Silva', 'Richard Bonneau'], u'October 27, 2016.', u'Differential binding of transcription factors (TFs) at cis-regulatory loci drives the differentiation and function of diverse cellular lineages. Understanding the regulatory interactions that underlie cell fate decisions requires characterizing TF binding sites (TFBS) across multiple cell types and conditions. Techniques, e.g. ChIP-Seq can reveal genome-wide patterns of TF binding, but typically requires laborious and costly experiments for each TF-cell-type (TFCT) condition of interest. Chromosomal accessibility assays can connect accessible chromatin in one cell type to many TFs through sequence motif mapping. Such methods, however, rarely take into account that the genomic context preferred by each factor differs from TF to TF, and from cell type to cell type. To address the differences in TF behaviors, we developed Mocap, a method that integrates chromatin accessibility, motif scores, TF footprints, CpG/GC content, evolutionary conservation and other factors in an ensemble of TFCT-specific classifiers. We show that integration of genomic features, such as CpG islands improves TFBS prediction in some TFCT. Further, we describe a method for mapping new TFCT, for which no ChIP-seq data exists, onto our ensemble of classifiers and show that our cross-sample TFBS prediction method outperforms several previously described methods.', u'/content/early/2016/10/27/083998', [], [u'New York University;', u'Simons Foundation;', u'New York University, Simons Foundation']]
[u'Transposable element exaptation is the primary source of novelty in the primate gene regulatory landscape', ['Marco Trizzino', 'YoSon Park', 'Marcia Holsbach-Beltrame', 'Katherine Aracena', 'Katelyn Mika', 'Minal Caliskan', 'George H. Perry', 'Vincent J. Lynch', 'Christopher D. Brown'], u'October 27, 2016.', u'Gene regulation plays a critical role in the evolution of phenotypic diversity. We investigated the evolution of liver promoters and enhancers in six primate species. We performed ChIP-seq for two histone modifications and RNA-seq to profile cis-regulatory element (CRE) activity and gene expression. The primate regulatory landscape is largely conserved across the lineage. Conserved CRE function is associated with sequence conservation, proximity to coding genes, cell type specificity of CRE function, and transcription factor binding. Newly evolved CREs are enriched in immune response and neurodevelopmental functions, while conserved CREs bind master regulators. Transposable elements (TEs) are the primary source of novelty in primate gene regulation. Newly evolved CREs are enriched in young TEs that affect gene expression. However, only 17% of conserved CREs overlap a TE, suggesting that target gene expression is under strong selection. Finally, we identified specific genomic features driving the functional recruitment of newly inserted TEs.', u'/content/early/2016/10/27/083980', [], [u'University of Pennsylvania;', u'University of Chicago;', u'Pennsylvania State University']]
[u'Scaffolding of long read assemblies using long range contact information', ['Jay Ghurye', 'Mihai Pop', 'Sergey Koren', 'Chen-Shan Chin'], u'October 27, 2016.', u'Long read technologies have made a revolution in de novo genome assembly by generating contigs of size orders of magnitude more than that of short read assemblies.\nAlthough the assembly contiguity has increased, it still does not span a chromosome or an arm of the chromosome, resulting in an unfinished chromosome level assembly.\nTo address this problem, we develop a scalable and computationally efficient scaffolding method that can boost the contiguity of the assembly by a large extent using genome wide chromatin interaction data such as Hi-C.\nParticularly, we demonstrate an algorithm that uses Hi-C data for longer-range scaffolding of de novo long read genome assemblies.\nWe tested our methods on two long read assemblies of different organisms.\n We compared our method with previously developed method and show that our approach performs better  in terms of accuracy of scaffolding.\nThe software is available for free use and can be downloaded from here:https://github.com/machinegun/hi-c-scaffold', u'/content/early/2016/10/27/083964.1', [], [u'University of Maryland College Park;', u'University of Maryland;', u'National Human Genome Research Institute;', u'Pacific Biosciences']]
[u'THE IDENTIFICATION OF SOURCE AND VECTOR OF A PROLIFIC MARINE INVADER', ['Stacy A Krueger-Hadfield', 'Nicole Kollars', 'Allan Strand', 'James Byers', 'Sarah Shainker', 'Ryuta Terada', 'Thomas Greig', 'Mareike Hammann', 'David Murray', 'Florian Weinberger', 'Erik Sotka'], u'October 27, 2016.', u'The source and vector of an introduced species inform its ecological and evolutionary history and may guide management that seeks to prevent future introductions. Surprisingly, few studies have successfully used genetic tools to independently inform the specific source and pathway of biological invasions. The ecological history of many introduced species, including their origins and vectors, is often based on suppositions or educated guesses. Here, we used mitochondrial and microsatellite genotyping to trace the invasion of the Asian seaweed Gracilaria vermiculophylla (Rhodophyta) along the three coastlines of the Northern Hemisphere to which it has been introduced: the western coast of North America, eastern coast of the United States and the coasts of Europe and northwest Africa. Analyzing 37 native and 53 introduced sites, we identified the Pacific coastline of northeastern Japan as the ultimate source of the Northern Hemisphere invasion. Coincidentally, most exports of the oyster Crassostrea gigas historically originated from this region and both species often grow in close proximity. Based on genetic signatures, each of the three coastlines likely received thalli directly from Japan, as well as material from another introduced coastline (i.e., a secondary invasion). Our ability to document a source region, which was enabled by a robust sampling of locations and loci that previous studies lacked, reflected strong phylogeographic structure along native coastlines. We suggest Gracilaria vermiculophylla is an important representative example of many species likely exported out of Japan by the oyster trade and its genetic signatures that may be a hallmark of oyster introduction legacies.', u'/content/early/2016/10/27/083972', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Alabama at Birmingham;', u'College of Charleston;', u'University of Georgia;', u'Kagoshima University;', u'NOAA;', u'GEOMAR']]
[u'A defensive body plan was pre-adaptive for termitophily in the rove beetle tribe Termitohospitini (Staphylinidae: Aleocharinae)', ['Taisuke Kanao', 'Ken Eldredge', 'Munetoshi Maruyama'], u'October 27, 2016.', u'Termitophily-the symbiosis of organisms with termite societies-has evolved a disproportionate number of times within the rove beetle subfamily Aleocharinae (Staphylinidae). Among aleocharine termitophiles, defensive (limuloid) and mimetic (physogastric & physothoracic) body forms have evolved convergently, but due to lack of a comprehensive aleocharine phylogeny, the context in which termitophily and associated adaptations evolve is unknown. We present the first example of a robust, morphology-based phylogenetic placement of an exclusively termitophilous tribe, the Termitohospitini. Termitohospitini is recovered to be nested within Myllaenini sensu nov, and sister to Myllaena (new synonymy). Furthermore, we also recovered the small tribe Masuriini nested within Myllaenini sensu nov (new status). Reconstructing ecological transitions within this clade, we present evidence that the stem lineage of Myllaenini sensu nov invaded intertidal marine habitats, the common ancestor for Myllaena + Termitohospitini then transitioned to freshwater riparian habitats, with Termitohospitini alone subsequently shifting to termitophily. We conclude that: (1) Termitohospitini was ancestrally a limuloid-bodied riparian inhabitant; (2) a limuloid form may have been pre-adaptive for defense against host attack during the evolution of termitophily; (3) the strongly tapered abdomen of an ancestral limuloid body was a constraint on the evolution of physogastry, leading to the emergence of the unusual physothoracic body form observed in termitohospitines that likely integrates these obligate termitophiles to life inside termite colonies.', u'/content/early/2016/10/27/083881', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Kyoto University;', u'University of Kansas;', u'Kyushu University']]
[u'FST and kinship for arbitrary population structures I: Generalized definitions', ['Alejandro Ochoa', 'John D. Storey'], u'October 27, 2016.', u'FST is a fundamental measure of genetic differentiation and population structure currently defined for subdivided populations. FST in practice typically assumes the "island model", where subpopulations have evolved independently from their last common ancestral population. In this work, we generalize the FST definition to arbitrary population structures, where individuals may be related in arbitrary ways. Our definitions are built on identity-by-descent (IBD) probabilities that relate individuals through inbreeding and kinship coefficients. We generalize FST as the mean inbreeding coefficient of the individuals\' local populations relative to their last common ancestral population. This FST naturally yields a useful pairwise FST between individuals.  We show that our generalized definition agrees with Wright\'s original and the island model definitions as special cases. We define a novel coancestry model based on "individual-specific allele frequencies" and prove that its parameters correspond to probabilistic kinship coefficients. Lastly, we study and extend the Pritchard-Stephens-Donnelly admixture model in the context of our coancestry model and calculate its FST. Our probabilistic framework provides a theoretical foundation that extends FST in terms of inbreeding and kinship coefficients to arbitrary population structures.', u'/content/early/2016/10/27/083915', [u'Genetics'], [u'Princeton University']]
[u'Recombination Suppression is Unlikely to Contribute to Speciation in Sympatric Heliconius Butterflies', ['John W. Davey', 'Sarah L. Barker', 'Pasi M. Rastas', 'Ana Pinharanda', 'Simon H. Martin', 'Richard Durbin', 'Richard M. Merrill', 'Chris D. Jiggins'], u'October 27, 2016.', u'Mechanisms that suppress recombination are known to help maintain species barriers by preventing the breakup of co-adapted gene combinations. The sympatric butterfly species H. melpomene and H. cydno are separated by many strong barriers, but the species still hybridise infrequently in the wild, with around 40% of the genome influenced by introgression. We tested the hypothesis that genetic barriers between the species are reinforced by inversions or other mechanisms to reduce between-species recombination rate. We constructed fine-scale recombination maps for Panamanian populations of both species and hybrids to directly measure recombination rate between these species, and generated long sequence reads to detect inversions. We find no evidence for a systematic reduction in recombination rates in F1 hybrids, and also no evidence for inversions longer than 50 kb that might be involved in generating or maintaining species barriers. This suggests that mechanisms leading to global or local reduction in recombination do not play a significant role in the maintenance of species barriers between H. melpomene and H. cydno.', u'/content/early/2016/10/27/083931', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Cambridge;', u'Sanger Institute']]
[u'Effects of of dimethyl sulfoxide on surface water near phospholipid bilayers', ['Yuno Lee', 'Philip A Pincus', 'Changbong Hyeon'], u'October 27, 2016.', u'Despite much effort to probe the properties of dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) solution, effects of DMSO on water, especially near plasma membrane surfaces still remain elusive. By performing molecular dynamics (MD) simulations at varying DMSO concentrations (XDMSO), we study how DMSO affects structural and dynamical properties of water in the vicinity of phospholipid bilayers. As proposed by a number of experiments, our simulations confirm that DMSO induces dehydration from bilayer surfaces and disrupts the H-bond structure of water. However, DMSO enhanced water diffusivity at solvent-bilayer interfaces, an intriguing discovery reported by a spin-label measurement, is not confirmed in our simulations. In order to resolve this discrepancy, we examine the location of the spin-label (Tempo), relative to the solvent-bilayer interface. In accord with the evidence in the literature, our simulations, which explicitly model Tempo-PC, find that the Tempo moiety is equilibrated at ~ 8-10 \xc5 below the bilayer surface. Furthermore, the DMSO-enhanced surface water diffusion is confirmed only when water diffusion is analyzed around the Tempo moiety that is immersed below the bilayer surface, which implies that the experimentally detected signal of water using Tempo stems from the interior of bilayers, not from the interface. Our analysis finds that the increase of water diffusion below the bilayer surface is coupled to the increase of area per lipid with an increasing XDMSO (< 10 mol%). Underscoring the hydrophobic nature of Tempo moiety, our study calls for careful re-evaluation of the use of Tempo in the measurement on lipid bilayer surfaces.', u'/content/early/2016/10/27/083956', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Korea Institute for Advanced Study;', u'University of California, Santa Barbara']]
[u'FST and kinship for arbitrary population structures II: Method of moments estimators', ['Alejandro Ochoa', 'John D. Storey'], u'October 27, 2016.', u'FST and kinship are key parameters often estimated in modern population genetics studies.  Kinship matrices have also become a fundamental quantity used in genome-wide association studies and heritability estimation.  The most frequently used estimators of FST and kinship are method of moments estimators whose accuracies depend strongly on the existence of simple underlying forms of structure, such as the island model of non-overlapping, independently evolving subpopulations. However, modern data sets have revealed that these simple models of structure do not likely hold in many populations, including humans.  In this work, we provide new results on the behavior of these estimators in the presence of arbitrarily complex population structures.  After establishing a framework for assessing bias and consistency of genome-wide estimators, we calculate the accuracy of FST and kinship estimators under arbitrary population structures, characterizing biases and estimation challenges unobserved under their originally assumed models of structure. We illustrate our results using simulated genotypes from an admixture model, constructing a one-dimensional geographic scenario that departs nontrivially from the island model. Using 1000 Genomes Project data, we verify that population-level pairwise FST estimates underestimate differentiation measured by an individual-level pairwise FST estimator introduced here. We show that the calculated biases are due to unknown quantities that cannot be estimated under the established frameworks, highlighting the need for innovative estimation approaches in complex populations.  We provide initial results that point towards a future estimation framework for generalized FST and kinship.', u'/content/early/2016/10/27/083923', [u'Genetics'], [u'Princeton University']]
[u'Cultural transmission and biological markets', ['Claude Loverdo', 'Hugo Viciana'], u'October 27, 2016.', u'Active cultural transmission of fitness-enhancing behavior can be seen as a costly strategy, one whose evolutionary stability poses a Darwinian puzzle. In this article, we offer a biological market model of cultural transmission that substitutes or complements existing kin-selection based theories for the evolution of cultural capacities. We explicitly formulate how a biological market can account for the evolution of deference and prestige-related phenomena, as well as how it can affect the dynamics of cumulative culture. We show that, under certain conditions, teaching evolves even when innovations are not sufficiently opaque and can be acquired by emulators via inadvertent transmission. Furthermore, teaching in a biological market is a precondition for enhanced individual learning abilities.', u'/content/early/2016/10/27/083907', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'Laboratoire Jean Perrin, UMR 8237 - CNRS - UPMC;', u'Evocog, Human Cognition and Evolution Group, Associated Unit to IFISC']]
[u'The transcriptional repressor HIC1 regulates intestinal immune homeostasis', ['Kyle Burrows', 'Frann Antignano', 'Michael Bramhall', 'Alistair Chenery', 'Sebastian Scheer', 'Vladimir Korinek', 'T. Michael Underhill', 'Colby Zaph'], u'October 27, 2016.', u'The intestine is a unique immune environment that must respond to infectious organisms but remain tolerant to commensal microbes and food antigens. However, the molecular mechanisms that regulate immune cell function in the intestine remain unclear.  Here we identify the POK/ZBTB family transcription factor Hypermethylated in cancer 1 (HIC1, ZBTB29) as a central component of immunity and inflammation in the intestine.  HIC1 is specifically expressed in immune cells in the intestinal lamina propria (LP) in the steady state and mice with a T cell-specific deletion of HIC1 have reduced numbers of T cells in the LP. HIC1 expression is regulated by the Vitamin A metabolite retinoic acid, as mice raised on a Vitamin A-deficient diet lack HIC1-positive cells in the intestine. HIC1-deficient T cells overproduce IL-17A in vitro and in vivo, and fail to induce intestinal inflammation, identifying a critical role for HIC1 in the regulation of T cell function in the intestinal microenvironment under both homeostatic and inflammatory conditions.', u'/content/early/2016/10/27/083873', [u'Immunology'], [u'University of British Columbia;', u'Monash University;', u'Institute of Molecular Genetics']]
[u'Pooled CRISPR screening with single-cell transcriptome read-out', ['Paul Datlinger', 'Christian Schmidl', 'Andre F Rendeiro', 'Peter Traxler', 'Johanna Klughammer', 'Linda Schuster', 'Christoph Bock'], u'October 27, 2016.', u'CRISPR-based genetic screens have revolutionized the search for new gene functions and biological mechanisms. However, widely used pooled screens are limited to simple read-outs of cell proliferation or the production of a selectable marker protein. Arrayed screens allow for more complex molecular read-outs such as transcriptome profiling, but they provide much lower throughput. Here we demonstrate CRISPR genome editing together with single-cell RNA sequencing as a new screening paradigm that combines key advantages of pooled and arrayed screens. This approach allowed us to link guide-RNA expression to the associated transcriptome responses in thousands of single cells using a straightforward and broadly applicable screening workflow.', u'/content/early/2016/10/27/083774', [u'Genomics'], [u'CeMM Research Center for Molecular Medicine of the Austrian Academy of Sciences']]
[u'Time dependent genetic analysis links field and controlled environment phenotypes in the model C4 grass Setaria', ['Max J Feldman', 'Rachel E Paul', 'Darshi Banan', 'Jennifer F Barrett', 'Jose Sebastian', 'Muh-Ching Yee', 'Hui Jiang', 'Alexander E Lipka', 'Thomas P Brutnell', 'Jose R Dinneny', 'Andrew D.B. Leakey', 'Ivan Baxter'], u'October 27, 2016.', u'Vertical growth of plants is a dynamic process that is influenced by genetic and environmental factors and has a pronounced effect on overall plant architecture and biomass composition. We have performed twelve grow outs of an interspecific Setaria italica x Setaria viridis recombinant inbred line population to assess how the genetic architecture of plant height is specified developmentally and influenced by water availability and planting density. The non-destructive nature of plant height measurement has enabled us to monitor vertical growth throughout the plant life cycle in both field and controlled environments. We find that plant height is reduced under water limitation and high density planting and affected by experimental environment (field vs. growth chamber). The results support a model where plant height is a heritable, polygenic trait and that the identity of the major genetic loci that influence plant height are not dependent upon growth environment.  The contribution of individual genetic loci that influence height change dynamically throughout development and the reduction of growth observed in water limited environments is a consequence of delayed progression through the genetic program which establishes plant height in Setaria.  In this population, alleles inherited from the weedy S. viridis parent act to increase plant height early, whereas a larger number of small effect alleles inherited from the domesticated S. italica parent increase plant height later in development.', u'/content/early/2016/10/27/083865', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Donald Danforth Plant Science Center;', u'University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign;', u'Carnegie Institution for Science;', u'Carnegie Institute for Science;', u'USDA-ARS']]
[u'Predictive representations can link model-based reinforcement learning to model-free mechanisms', ['Evan M. Russek', 'Ida Momennejad', 'Matthew M. Botvinick', 'Samuel J. Gershman', 'Nathaniel D. Daw'], u'October 27, 2016.', u'Humans and animals are capable of evaluating actions by considering their long-run future rewards through a process described using model-based reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms. The mechanisms by which neural circuits perform the computations prescribed by model-based RL remain largely unknown; however, multiple lines of evidence suggest that neural circuits supporting model-based behavior are structurally homologous to and overlapping with those thought to carry out model-free temporal difference (TD) learning. Here, we lay out a family of approaches by which model-based computation may be built upon a core of TD learning.  The foundation of this framework is the successor representation, a predictive state representation that, when combined with TD learning of value predictions, can produce a subset of the behaviors associated with model-based learning at a fraction of the computational cost.  Using simulations, we delineate the precise behavioral capabilities enabled by evaluating actions using this approach, and compare them to those demonstrated by biological organisms.  We then introduce two new algorithms that build upon the successor representation while progressively mitigating its limitations.  Because this framework can account for the full range of observed putatively model-based behaviors while still utilizing a core TD framework, we suggest that it represents a neurally plausible family of mechanisms for model-based evaluation.', u'/content/early/2016/10/27/083857', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'New York University;', u'Princeton University;', u'Google DeepMind;', u'Harvard University']]
[u'Self assembly of HIV-1 Gag protein on lipid membranes generates PI(4,5)P2/Cholesterol\nnanoclusters.', ['Naresh Yandrapalli', 'Quentin Lubart', 'Hanumant S. Tanwar', 'Catherine PICART', 'Johnson Mak', 'Delphine Muriaux', 'Cyril Favard'], u'October 27, 2016.', u'The self-assembly of HIV-1 Gag polyprotein at the inner leaflet of the cell host plasma membrane is the key orchestrator of\nvirus assembly. The binding between Gag and the plasma membrane is mediated by specific interaction of the Gag matrix\ndomain and the PI(4,5)P2 lipid (PIP2). It is unknown whether this interaction could lead to local reorganization of the plasma\nmembrane lipids. In this study, using model membranes, we examined the ability of Gag to segregate specific lipids upon\nself-assembly. We show for the first time that Gag self-assembly is responsible for the formation of PIP2 lipid nanoclusters, enriched in cholesterol but not in sphingomyelin. We also show that Gag mainly partition into liquid-disordered domains of\nthese lipid membranes. Our work strongly suggests that, instead of targeting pre-existing plasma membrane lipid domains,\nGag is more prone to generate PIP2/Cholesterol lipid nanodomains at the inner leaflet of the plasma membrane during early\nevents of virus assembly.', u'/content/early/2016/10/27/081737', [u'Biophysics'], [u'CPBS-CNRS;', u'LMGP-INP Grenoble;', u'Deakin University']]
[u'Rare disruptive variants in the DISC1 Interactome and Regulome: association with cognitive ability and schizophrenia', ['Shaolei Teng', 'Pippa Thomson', 'Shane McCarthy', 'Melissa Kramer', 'Stephanie Muller', 'Jayon Lihm', 'Stewart Morris', 'Dinesh Soares', 'William Hennah', 'Sarah Harris', 'Luiz Miguel Camargo', 'Vladislav Malkov', 'Andrew McIntosh', 'J. Kirsty Millar', 'Douglas Blackwood', 'Kathryn Evans', 'Ian Deary', 'David Porteous', 'W. Richard McCombie'], u'October 27, 2016.', u'Schizophrenia (SCZ), bipolar disorder (BD) and recurrent major depressive disorder (rMDD) are common psychiatric illnesses. All have been associated with lower cognitive ability, and show evidence of genetic overlap and substantial evidence of pleiotropy with cognitive function and neuroticism. Disrupted in schizophrenia 1 (DISC1) protein directly interacts with a large set of proteins (DISC1 Interactome) that are involved in brain development and signaling. Modulation of DISC1 expression alters the expression of a circumscribed set of genes (DISC1 Regulome) that are also implicated in brain biology and disorder. Here, we report targeted sequencing of 59 DISC1 Interactome genes and 154 Regulome genes in 654 psychiatric patients and 889 cognitively-phenotyped control subjects, on whom we previously reported evidence for trait association from complete sequencing of the DISC1 locus. Burden analyses of rare and singleton variants predicted to be damaging were performed for psychiatric disorders, cognitive variables and personality traits. The DISC1 Interactome and Regulome showed differential association across the phenotypes tested. After family-wise error correction across all traits (FWERacross), an increased burden of singleton disruptive variants in the Regulome was associated with SCZ (FWERacross P=0.0339). The burden of singleton disruptive variants in the DISC1 Interactome was associated with low cognitive ability at age 11 (FWERacross P=0.0043). These results suggest that variants in the DISC1 Interactome effect the risk of psychiatric illness through altered expression of schizophrenia-associated genes. The biological impact of rare variants highlighted here merit further study.', u'/content/early/2016/10/27/083816', [u'Genetics'], [u'Howard University;', u'University of Edinburgh;', u'Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory;', u'University of Helsinki;', u'UCB New Medicines;', u'Merck & Co.']]
[u'The successor representation in human reinforcement learning', ['Ida Momennejad', 'Evan M. Russek', 'Jin H. Cheong', 'Matthew M. Botvinick', 'Nathaniel Daw', 'Samuel J. Gershman'], u'October 27, 2016.', u"Theories of reinforcement learning in neuroscience have focused on two families of algorithms. Model-free algorithms cache action values, making them cheap but inflexible: a candidate mechanism for adaptive and maladaptive habits. Model-based algorithms achieve flexibility at computational expense, by rebuilding values from a model of the environment. We examine an intermediate class of algorithms, the successor representation (SR), which caches long-run state expectancies, blending model-free efficiency with model-based flexibility. Although previous reward revaluation studies distinguish model-free from model-based learning algorithms, such designs cannot discriminate between model-based and SR-based algorithms, both of which predict sensitivity to reward revaluation. However, changing the transition structure ('transition revaluation') should selectively impair revaluation for the SR. In two studies we provide evidence that humans are differentially sensitive to reward vs. transition revaluation, consistent with SR predictions. These results support a new neuro-computational mechanism for flexible choice, while introducing a subtler, more cognitive notion of habit.", u'/content/early/2016/10/27/083824', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Princeton Neuroscience Institute;', u'Center for Neural Science, New York University;', u'Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, Dartmouth College;', u'Google DeepMind and Gatsby Computational Neuroscience Unit, University College London;', u'Department of Psychology and Center for Brain Science, Harvard University']]
