[u'K-mer Motif Multinomial Mixtures', ['Brian L Trippe', 'Sandhya Prabhakaran', 'Harmen Bussemaker'], u'December 24, 2016.', u'Motivation: The advent of inexpensive high-throughput sequencing (HTS) places new demands on motif discovery algorithms.  To confront the challenges and embrace the opportunities presented by the growing wealth of information tied up in HTS datasets, we developed K-mer motif multinomial mixtures (KMMMs), a flexible class of Bayesian models for identifying multiple motifs in sequence sets using K-mer tables.  Advantages of this framework are inference with time and space complexities that only scale with K, and the ability to be incorporated into larger Bayesian models.  Results: We derived a class of probabilistic models of K-mer tables generated from sequence containing multiple motifs.  KMMMs model the K-mer table as a multinomial mixture, with motif and background components, which are distributions over K-mers overlapping with each of the latent motifs and over K-mers that do not overlap with any motif, respectively.  The framework casts motif discovery as a posterior inference problem, and we present several approximate inference methods that provide accurate reconstructions of motifs in synthetic data.  Finally we apply the method to discover motifs in DNAse hypersensitive sites and ChIP-seq peaks obtained from the ENCODE project.', u'/content/early/2016/12/24/096735', [], [u'Columbia University']]
[u'A network theory of the origin of life', ['Geoffrey William Hoffmann'], u'December 24, 2016.', u'The origin of life may have been a low probability event that involved both RNA and polypeptides. While such an event would occur with low probability, the probability is not too low in the context of the number of nucleation opportunities on the primitive Earth. The probability for the nucleation event is too small if needed components occur as frequently as disruptive components do, without specific interactions between the two classes. However, if many of the needed components contribute by inhibiting otherwise disruptive components, a high probability for a complex nucleation as the beginning of life event emerges. RNA interference and long non coding RNAs are ascribed roles in inhibiting components that would otherwise be disruptive in the context of a nucleation event. The theory likewise provides an inhibitory role for the large fraction of proteins (35% to 40%) that have no known function in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes. It is suggested that volcanic ash could provide the large number of random shapes needed as the basis for the nucleation event. Experiments based on that hypothesis are proposed.', u'/content/early/2016/12/24/096701', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'University British Columbia']]
[u'RealTime Heart Rate Monitoring Using Photoplethysmographic (PPG) Signals During Intensive Physical Exercises', ['Majid Farhadi', 'Mahdi Boloursaz Mashhadi', 'Mahmoud Essalat', 'Farokh Marvasti'], u'December 24, 2016.', u'Heart Rate (HR) is a fundamental vital sign, monitoring which provides essential information for automated healthcare systems. The emerging technology of Photoplethysmograph (PPG) is shown as a feasible candidate for such applications; however, Motion Artifacts (MA) hinder efficient HR estimation using PPG, especially in situations involving physical activities. It is previously shown that even in the presence of sever MA, HR is still traceable with the help of simultaneous acceleration data although at high computational expenses. In this paper, we propose a novel framework, that not only improves the accuracy in HR estimation, but also achieves realtime performance by significantly reducing the complexity of system; mainly due to alleviation of the need for computationally demanding MA cancellation methods. Utilizing an spectrum estimation model (autoregressive) that suits well to the inherent PPG generation process, and benefiting from further intrinsic properties of the environment (e.g., the venous pulsation phenomenon); our framework achieves realtime and delayed (post-processed) Average Absolute Errors (AAE) of 1.19 and 0.99 Beats Per Minute (BPM) respectively, on the 12 benchmark recordings in which subjects run at speeds of up to 15 km/h maximum. Moreover, the system makes standalone implementation feasible by processing input frames (2 channel PPG and 3D ACC) in < 0.004 times of the frame duration, operating on a 3.2 GHz processor. This study provides wearable healthcare technologies with a robust framework for accurate HR monitoring; at considerably low computational costs.', u'/content/early/2016/12/24/092627', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Sharif University of Technology']]
[u'Flexible statistical methods for estimating and testing effects in genomic studies with multiple conditions', ['Sarah Margaret Urbut', 'Gao Wang', 'Matthew Stephens'], u'December 24, 2016.', u'We introduce new statistical methods for analyzing genomic datasets that measure many effects in many conditions (e.g. gene expression changes under many treatments). These new methods improve on existing methods by allowing for arbitrary correlations among conditions. This flexible approach increases power, improves effect-size estimates, and facilitates more quantitative assessments of effect-size heterogeneity than simple "shared/condition-specific" assessments. We illustrate these features through a detailed analysis of locally-acting ("cis") eQTLs in 44 human tissues (data from GTEx project). Our analysis identifies more eQTLs than existing approaches, consistent with improved power. More importantly, although eQTLs are often shared broadly among tissues, our more quantitative approach highlights that effect sizes can vary considerably among tissues: some shared eQTLs show stronger effects in a subset of biologically-related tissues (e.g. brain-related tissues), or in only a single tissue (e.g. testis; transformed-fibroblasts). Our methods are widely applicable, computationally tractable for many conditions, and available at https://github.com/stephenslab/mashr.', u'/content/early/2016/12/24/096552', [u'Genomics'], [u'Univ. of Chicago']]
[u'Metagenomic Binning through Multi-resolution Genomic Binary Patterns', ['Samaneh Kouchaki', 'Avraam Tapinos', 'David L Robertson'], u'December 24, 2016.', u"Motivation: High-throughput sequencing has facilitated the analysis of complex microbial communities. Consequently, an enormous number of sequences have been generated containing various regions of bacterial and viral genomes. Image processing offers a rich source of descriptors for data analysis. Here, we introduce a feature space called multi-resolution local binary patterns (MLBP) from image processing as a feature descriptor to extract local 'texture' changes from nucleotide sequences. We demonstrate its applicability to the alignment-free binning of metagenomic data.  Results: The effectiveness of our approach is tested using both simulated and real human gut microbial communities. We compared the performance of our method with several existing techniques that are based on k-mer frequency to show it outperforms existing techniques. In addition, we provide a time-series study of the abundance pattern of each bin to help refine the formed clusters automatically and to find relations that may exist among the clusters. Although the main aim is to introduce the use of genomic signatures using an alternative feature space (MLBP), our results show its application to the analysis of contigs from a metagenomic study.", u'/content/early/2016/12/24/096719', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Manchester']]
[u'rAmpSeq: Using repetitive sequences for robust genotyping', ['Edward S Buckler', 'Daniel C. Ilut', 'Xiaoyun Wang', 'Tobias Kretzschmar', 'Michael A. Gore', 'Sharon E. Mitchell'], u'December 24, 2016.', u'Repetitive sequences have been used for DNA fingerprinting and genotyping for more than a quarter century.   Now, with our knowledge of whole genome sequences, repetitive sequences can be used to identify polymorphisms that can be mapped and scored in a systematic manner.  We have developed a simple, robust platform for designing primers, PCR amplification, and high throughput cloning that allows hundreds to thousands of markers to be scored for less than $5 per sample.  Conserved regions were used to design PCR primers for amplifying thousands of middle repetitive regions of the maize  (Zea mays ssp. mays) genome.  Bioinformatic scans were then used to identify DNA sequence polymorphisms in the low copy intervening sequences.  When used in conjunction with simple DNA preps, optimized PCR conditions, high multiplex Illumina indexing and a bioinformatic marker calling platform tailored for repetitive sequences, this methodology provides a cost effective genotyping strategy for large-scale genomic selection projects.  We show detailed results from four maize primer sets that produced between 1,335-3,225 good coverage loci with 1056 that segregated appropriately in a bi-parental family.  This approach could have wide applicability to breeding and conservation biology, where hundreds of thousands of samples need to be genotyped for very minimal cost.', u'/content/early/2016/12/24/096628', [u'Genomics'], [u'US Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service;', u'Cornell University;', u'International Rice Research Institute']]
[u'diffloop: a computational framework for identifying and analyzing differential DNA loops from sequencing data', ['Caleb Lareau', 'Martin Aryee'], u'December 24, 2016.', u'The three-dimensional architecture of DNA within the nucleus is a key determinant of interactions between genes, regulatory elements, and transcriptional machinery. As a result, differences in loop structure are associated with differences in gene expression and cell state. Here, we introduce diffloop, an R/Bioconductor package for identifying differential DNA looping between samples. The package additionally provides a suite of functions for the quality control, statistical testing, annotation and visualization of DNA loops. We demonstrate this functionality by detecting differences in DNA loops between ENCODE ChIA-PET datasets and relate looping to differences in epigenetic state and gene expression.', u'/content/early/2016/12/24/087338', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Harvard University;', u'Massachusetts General Hospital']]
[u'Incorporating the Rate of Transcriptional Change Improves Construction of Transcription Factor Regulatory Networks', ['Jigar Desai', 'Ryan C Sartor', 'Lovely Mae Lawas', 'Krishna Jagadish SV', 'Colleen J Doherty'], u'December 24, 2016.', u'Transcriptional regulatory networks (TRNs) can be developed by computational approaches that infer regulator-target gene interactions from transcriptional assays.  Successful algorithms that generate predictive, accurate TRNs enable the identification of regulator-target relationships in conditions where experimentally determining regulatory interactions is a challenge.  Improving the ability of TRNs to successfully predict known regulator-target relationships in model species will enhance confidence in applying these approaches to determine regulator-target interactions in non-model species where experimental validation is challenging.  Many transcriptional profiling experiments are performed across multiple time points; therefore we sought to improve regulator-target predictions by adjusting how time is incorporated into the network.  We created ExRANGES, which incorporates Expression in a Rate-Normalized GEne Specific manner that adjusts how expression data is provided to the network algorithm.  We tested this on a random-forest based network construction approach and found that ExRANGES prioritizes targets differently than traditional expression and improves the ability of these networks to accurately predict known regulator targets.  ExRANGES improved the ability to correctly identify targets of transcription factors in large data sets in four different model systems: mouse, human, Arabidopsis, and yeast.  Finally, we examined the performance of ExRANGES on a small data set from field-grown Oryza sativa  and found that it also improved the ability to identify known targets even with a limited data set.', u'/content/early/2016/12/24/093807', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'North Carolina State University;', u'University of California, San Diego;', u'International Rice Research Institute']]
[u'Two loci contribute epistastically to heterospecific pollen rejection, a postmating isolating barrier between species', ['Jennafer Hamlin', 'Natasha Sherman', 'Leonie C Moyle'], u'December 24, 2016.', u'Recognition and rejection of heterospecific male gametes occurs in a broad range of taxa, although the complexity and redundancy of mechanisms underlying this postmating cryptic female choice is poorly understood. In plants, the arena for these interactions is the female reproductive tract (pistil), within which heterospecific pollen tube growth can be arrested via active molecular recognition. Unilateral incompatibility (UI) is one such pistil-mediated barrier in which pollen rejection occurs in only one direction of an interspecific cross. We investigated the genetic basis of pistil-side UI between Solanum species, with the specific goal of understanding the role and magnitude of epistasis between UI QTL. Using heterospecific introgression lines (ILs) between Solanum pennellii and S. lycopersicum, we assessed the individual and pairwise effects of three chromosomal regions (ui1.1, ui3.1, and ui12.1) previously associated with interspecific UI among Solanum species. Specifically, we pyramided ui12.1 with each of ui1.1 and ui3.1, and assessed the strength of UI pollen rejection in pyramided (double introgression) lines, compared to single introgression genotypes. We found that none of the three QTL individually showed UI rejection phenotypes, but lines combining ui3.1 and ui12.1 showed significant pistil-side pollen rejection. Furthermore, double introgression lines that combined different chromosomal regions overlapping ui3.1 differed significantly in their rate of UI, consistent with at least two genetic factors on chromosome three contributing quantitatively to interspecific pollen rejection. Together, our data indicate that loci on both chromosomes 3 and 12 are jointly required for the expression of UI between S. pennellii and S. lycopersicum suggesting that coordinated molecular interactions among a relatively few loci underlying the expression of this postmating prezygotic barrier. In addition, in conjunction with previous data, at least one of these loci appears to also contribute to conspecific self-incompatibility, consistent with a partially shared genetic basis between inter- and intraspecific mechanisms of postmating prezygotic female choice.', u'/content/early/2016/12/24/094912', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Indiana University']]
[u'Inferring Weighted Gene Annotations from Expression Dat', ['MIchael P Cary', 'Cynthia Kenyon'], u'December 24, 2016.', u'Annotating genes with information describing their role in the cell is a fundamental goal in biology, and essential for interpreting data-rich assays such as microarray analysis and RNA-Seq.  Gene annotation takes many forms, from Gene Ontology (GO) terms, to tissues or cell types of significant expression, to putative regulatory factors and DNA sequences.  Almost invariably in gene databases, annotations are connected to genes by a Boolean relationship, e.g., a GO term either is or is not associated with a particular gene.  While useful for many purposes, Boolean-type annotations fail to capture the varying degrees by which some annotations describe their associated genes and give no indication of the relevance of annotations to cellular logistical activities such as gene expression.  We hypothesized that weighted annotations could prove useful for understanding gene function and for interpreting gene expression data, and developed a method to generate these from Boolean annotations and a large compendium of gene expression data.  The method uses an independent component analysis-based approach to find gene modules in the compendium, and then assigns gene-specific weights to annotations proportional to the degree to which they are shared among members of the module, with the reasoning that the more an annotation is shared by genes in a module, the more likely it is to be relevant to their function and, therefore, the higher it should be weighted.  In this paper, we show that analysis of expression data with module-weighted annotations appears to be more resistant to the confounding effect of gene-gene correlations than non-weighted annotation enrichment analysis, and show several examples in which module-weighted annotations provide biological insights not revealed by Boolean annotations.  We also show that application of the method to a simple form of genetic regulatory annotation, namely, the presence or absence of putative regulatory words (oligonucleotides) in gene promoters, leads to module-weighted words that closely match known regulatory sequences, and that these can be used to quickly determine key regulatory sequences in differential expression data.', u'/content/early/2016/12/24/096677', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of California, San Francisco;', u'University of California, San Francisco, and Calico Life Sciences']]
[u'Dorsal hippocampus plays a causal role in model-based planning', ['Kevin J Miller', 'Matthew M Botvinick', 'Carlos D Brody'], u'December 24, 2016.', u'Planning can be defined as a process of action selection that leverages an internal model of the environment. Such models provide information about the likely outcomes that will follow each selected action, and their use is a key function underlying complex adaptive behavior. However, the neural mechanisms supporting this ability remain poorly understood. In the present work, we adapt for rodents recent advances from work on human planning, presenting for the first time a task for animals which produces many trials of planned behavior per session,  allowing the experimental toolkit available for use in trial-by-trial tasks for rodents to be applied to the study of planning. We take advantage of one part of this toolkit to address a perennially controversial issue in planning research: the role of the dorsal hippocampus. Although prospective representations in the hippocampus have been proposed to support model-based planning, intact planning in hippocampally damaged animals has been observed in a number of assays. Combining formal algorithmic behavioral analysis with muscimol inactivation, we provide the first causal evidence directly linking dorsal hippocampus with planning behavior. The results reported, and the methods introduced, open the door to new and more detailed investigations of the neural mechanisms of planning, in the hippocampus and throughout the brain.', u'/content/early/2016/12/24/096594', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Princeton University;', u'Google DeepMind;', u'HHMI & Princeton University']]
[u'Assembly of photoactive Orange Carotenoid Protein from its domains unravels a carotenoid shuttle mechanism', ['Marcus Moldenhauer', 'Nikolai N. Sluchanko', 'David Buhrke', 'Dmitry V. Zlenko', 'Neslihan N. Tavraz', 'Franz-Josef Schmitt', 'Peter Hildebrandt', 'Eugene G. Maksimov', 'Thomas Friedrich'], u'December 24, 2016.', u'The Orange Carotenoid Protein (OCP) is indispensable for cyanobacterial photoprotection by quenching phycobilisome fluorescence upon photoconversion from the orange OCPO to the red OCPR form. Cyanobacterial genomes frequently harbor, besides genes for Orange Carotenoid Proteins (OCPs), several genes encoding homologs the N- or C-terminal domains (NTD, CTD) of OCP. Unlike the well-studied NTD homologs, called Red Carotenoid Proteins (RCPs), the role of CTD homologs remains elusive. We show how OCP can be reassembled from its functional domains. Expression of Synechocystis OCP-CTD in carotenoid-producing Escherichia coli yielded violet-colored proteins, which, upon mixing with the RCP-apoprotein, produced an orange-like photoswitchable form that further photoconverted into a species spectroscopically indistinguishable from RCP, thus demonstrating a unique carotenoid shuttle mechanism. The CTD itself is a novel, dimeric carotenoid-binding protein, which effectively quenches singlet oxygen and interacts with the Fluorescence Recovery Protein, assigning physiological roles to CTD homologs and explaining the evolutionary process of OCP formation.', u'/content/early/2016/12/24/096651', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Technical University of Berlin;', u'Russian Academy of Sciences;', u'Lomonosov Moscow State University']]
[u'Genetic and transgenic reagents for Drosophila simulans, D. mauritiana, D. yakuba, D. santomea and D. virilis', ['David Stern', 'Justin Crocker', 'Yun Ding', 'Nicolas Frankel', 'Gretchen Kappes', 'Elizabeth Kim', 'Ryan Kuzmickas', 'Andrew Lemire', 'Serge Picard'], u'December 23, 2016.', u'Species of the Drosophila melanogaster species subgroup, including the species D. simulans, D. mauritiana, D.\nyakuba, and D. santomea, have long served as model systems for studying evolution. Studies in these species have\nbeen limited, however, by a paucity of genetic and transgenic reagents. Here we describe a collection of transgenic\nand genetic strains generated to facilitate genetic studies within and between these species. We have generated many\nstrains of each species containing mapped piggyBac transposons including an enhanced yellow fluorescent protein\ngene expressed in the eyes and a phiC31 attP site-specific integration site. We have tested a subset of these lines for\nintegration efficiency and reporter gene expression levels. We have also generated a smaller collection of other lines\nexpressing other genetically encoded fluorescent molecules in the eyes and a number of other transgenic reagents\nthat will be useful for functional studies in these species. In addition, we have mapped the insertion locations of 86\ntransposable elements in D. virilis that will be useful for genetic mapping studies.', u'/content/early/2016/12/23/096644', [u'Genetics'], [u'Janelia Research Campus;', u'Universidad de Buenos Aires;', u'Princeton University;', u"Brigham and Women's Hospital"]]
[u'Neuronal gain modulability is determined by dendritic morphology: a computational optogenetic study', ['Sarah Jarvis', 'Konstantin Nikolic', 'Simon Schultz'], u'December 23, 2016.', u"The mechanisms by which the gain of the neuronal input-output function may be modulated have been the subject of much investigation. However, little is known of the role of dendrites in neuronal gain control. New optogenetic experimental paradigms based on spatial profiles or patterns of light stimulation offer the prospect of elucidating many aspects of single cell function, including the role of dendrites in gain control. We thus developed a model to investigate how competing excitatory and inhibitory input within the dendritic arbor alters neuronal gain, incorporating kinetic models of opsins into our modeling to ensure it is experimentally testable. We found a relationship between a neuron's ability to modulate gain and its dendritic morphology, with neurons with bipolar dendrites with a moderate degree of branching being most receptive to control of the gain of their input-output relationship. This was consistent whether the neuron was driven by current injection or by simulated synaptic input, and was independent of ion channel composition, suggesting that it is an intrinsic property of neurons. In addition to providing testable predictions and a novel application of dual-opsins, our model suggests that innervation of all dendritic subdomains is required for full gain modulation, revealing the importance of dendritic targeting in the generation of neuronal gain control and the functions that it subserves.", u'/content/early/2016/12/23/096586', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Imperial College London']]
