[u"Genome-wide methylation patterns are associated with Parkinson's disease", ['Yu-Hsuan Chuang', 'Steve Horvath', 'Kimberly C. Paul', 'Jeff M. Bronstein', 'Yvette Bordelon', 'Beate Ritz'], u'July 11, 2016.', u"Increasing evidence suggests that epigenetic mechanisms such as DNA methylation might play a role in Parkinson's disease etiology. In a population-based case control study of PD, we investigated whole blood methylation profiles for 335 PD patients and 237 controls and saliva methylation profiles for another 128 patients and 131 controls using Illumina 450k microarrays. Employing correlation analysis and a systems biology approach, weighted gene co-methylation network analysis (WGCNA), our study provides the first evidence for epigenetic differences related to mitochondrial and immune-related genes in PD, and additionally in cytoskeleton organization, Wnt signaling, and iron handling pathways, likely also important in PD.  Our study also suggests that while adjusting for cell composition in DNA methylation studies of blood is standard, this approach misses signals when immunologic factors reflected in cell composition play a role.", u'/content/early/2016/07/11/063297', [], [u'UCLA Fielding School of Public Health;', u'UCLA Human Genetics and Biostatistics;', u'UCLA Epidemiology;', u'UCLA Neurology;', u'UCLA Epidemiology, Neurology, Environmental Health']]
[u'Benzoate and Salicylate Tolerant Strains Lose Antibiotic Resistance during Laboratory Evolution of Escherichia coli K-12', ['Kaitlin Creamer', 'Frederick Ditmars', 'Preston J Basting', 'Santiago Acero', 'Karina S Kunka', 'Issam Hamdallah', 'Sean P Bush', 'Zachary Scott', 'Amanda He', 'Stephanie Penix', 'Alexandra Gonzales', 'Elizabeth K Eder', 'Dominic Camperchioli', 'Adama Berndt', 'Michelle W Clark', 'Kerry Rouhier', 'Joan L Slonczewski'], u'July 11, 2016.', u'Escherichia coli K-12 W3110 grows in the presence of membrane-permeant organic acids that can depress cytoplasmic pH and accumulate in the cytoplasm. We conducted laboratory evolution by daily dilution in increasing concentrations of benzoic acid (from 5 to 20 mM) buffered at external pH 6.5, a pH at which permeant acids concentrate in the cytoplasm.   By 2,000 generations, clones isolated from the evolving populations showed change in phenotype from benzoate-sensitive to benzoate-tolerant but sensitive to chloramphenicol and tetracycline. Sixteen clones isolated at 2,000 generations grew to stationary phase in 20 mM benzoate, whereas the ancestral strain W3110 peaked and declined. Similar growth profiles were seen in 10 mM salicylate. The strains showed growth profiles indistinguishable from W3110 in the absence of benzoate; in media buffered at pH 4.8, pH 7.0, or pH 9.0; or in 20 mM acetate or sorbate at pH 6.5.  The genomes of 16 strains revealed over 100 mutations including SNPs, large deletions, and insertion sequence knockouts.  Most strains acquired deletions in the benzoate-induced multiple antibiotic resistance (Mar) regulon or associated regulators such as rob and cpx, as well as MDR efflux pumps emrA, emrY, and mdtA. Strains also lost or down-regulated the Gad acid fitness regulon. In 5 mM benzoate, or in 2 mM salicylate, most strains showed increased sensitivity to the antibiotic chloramphenicol, some more sensitive than a marA knockout. Thus, the benzoate-evolved strains may reveal additional unknown drug resistance components. Benzoate is a common food preservative, and salicylate is the primary active metabolite of aspirin. In the gut microbiome, genetic adaptation to salicylate may involve loss or downregulation of inducible multidrug resistance systems. This discovery implies that aspirin therapy may modulate the human gut microbiome to favor salicylate tolerance at the expense of drug resistance.', u'/content/early/2016/07/11/063271', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Kenyon College']]
[u'Molecular and biological characterization of an isolate of Tomato mottle mosaic virus (ToMMV) infecting tomato and other experimental hosts in a greenhouse in Valencia, Spain', ['Silvia Ambros', 'Fernando Martinez', 'Pilar Ivars', 'Carmen Hernandez', 'Francisca de la Iglesia', 'Santiago F. Elena'], u'July 11, 2016.', u"Tomato is known to be a natural and experimental reservoir host for many plant viruses.  In the last few years a new tobamovirus species, Tomato mottle mosaic virus (ToMMV), has been described infecting tomato and pepper plants in several countries worldwide.  Upon observation of symptoms in tomato plants growing in a greenhouse in Valencia, Spain, we aimed to ascertain the etiology of the disease.  Using standard molecular techniques, we first detected a positive sense single-stranded RNA virus as the probable causal agent.  Next, we amplified, cloned and sequenced a ~3 kb fragment of its RNA genome which allowed us to identify the virus as a new ToMMV isolate.  Through extensive assays on distinct plant species, we validated Koch's postulates and investigated the host range of the ToMMV isolate.  Several plant species were locally and/or systemically infected by the virus, some of which had not been previously reported as ToMMV hosts despite they are commonly used in research greenhouses.  Finally, two reliable molecular diagnostic techniques were developed and used to assess the presence of ToMMV in different plants species.  We discuss the possibility that, given the high sequence homology between ToMMV and Tomato mosaic virus, the former may have been mistakenly diagnosed as the latter by serological methods.", u'/content/early/2016/07/11/063255', [u'Microbiology'], [u'IBMCP-CSIC']]
[u'Geo-climatic gradient shapes functional trait variations in Salix eriocephala Michx.', ['Arun S.K. Shunmugam', 'Raju Y. Soolanayakanahally', 'Robert D. Guy'], u'July 11, 2016.', u'Intraspecific variations in seasonal phenology and growth physiology reflect adaptation to local climate. To explore the patterns of local adaptation along latitudinal and longitudinal clines, we used thirty-four populations of Salix eriocephala sourced from its natural ranges across Canada. The genotypes were examined for 6 phenology and 19 ecophysiology traits over two growing seasons under common garden condition. Photosynthetic assimilation rate (A) increased with increase in latitude when measured during free growth. In spite, the negative correlation between stomatal density and stomatal conductance (gs), higher A is facilitated via larger pore length among genotypes from short growing seasons. In addition, higher A, was positively associated with total leaf nitrogen and leaf mass per unit area. No population level differences were observed for water use-efficiency (\u039413C), however nitrogen isotope discrimination (\u03b415N) displayed latitudinal clines. Growing season phenological traits considered in this study accounted high heritability (H2 = 0.65-0.94). Melampsora rust infestation also displayed a strong latitudinal cline with high-latitude genotypes being more susceptible. Overall, the results support the hypothesis that functional trait variations are largely explained by climate of origin and facilitate selection of parents with superior adaptive traits in the Canadian willow improvement program for bioenergy and environmental applications.', u'/content/early/2016/07/11/057836', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Saskatoon Research and Development Centre, Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan;', u'Department of Forest and Conservation Sciences, Faculty of Forestry, University of British Columbia']]
[u'Complete mitochondrial genomes of Thai and Lao populations indicate an ancient origin of Austroasiatic groups and demic diffusion in the spread of Tai-Kadai languages', ['Wibhu Kutanan', 'Jatupol Kampuansai', 'Metawee Srikummool', 'Daoroong Kangwanpong', 'Silvia Ghirotto', 'Andrea Brunelli', 'Mark Stoneking'], u'July 11, 2016.', u'The Tai-Kadai (TK) language family is thought to have originated in southern China and spread to Thailand and Laos, but it is not clear if TK languages spread by demic diffusion (i.e., a migration of people from southern China) or by cultural diffusion, with native Austroasiatic (AA) speakers switching to TK languages. To address this and other questions, we obtained 1,234 complete mtDNA genome sequences from 51 TK and AA groups from Thailand and Laos. We find high genetic heterogeneity, with 212 haplogroups. TK groups are more genetically homogeneous than AA groups, with the latter exhibiting more ancient/basal mtDNA lineages, and showing more drift effects. Modeling of demic diffusion, cultural diffusion, and admixture scenarios consistently supports the spread of TK languages by demic diffusion. Surprisingly, there is significant genetic differentiation within ethnolinguistic groups, calling into question the common assumption that there is genetic homogeneity within ethnolinguistic groups.', u'/content/early/2016/07/11/063172', [u'Genetics'], [u'Khon Kaen University, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology;', u'Chiang Mai University;', u'Naruesuan University;', u'University of Ferrara;', u'Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology']]
[u'An ex vivo lung model to study bronchioles infected with Pseudomonas aeruginosa biofilms', ['Freya Harrison', 'Stephen P Diggle'], u'July 11, 2016.', u'A key aim in microbiology is to determine the genetic and phenotypic bases of bacterial virulence, persistence and antimicrobial resistance in chronic biofilm infections. This requires tractable, high-throughput models that reflect the physical and chemical environment encountered in specific infection contexts. Such models will increase the predictive power of microbiological experiments and provide platforms for enhanced testing of novel antibacterial or antivirulence therapies. We present an optimised ex vivo model of cystic fibrosis lung infection: ex vivo culture of pig bronchiolar tissue in artificial cystic fibrosis mucus. We focus on the formation of biofilms by Pseudomonas aeruginosa. We show highly repeatable and specific formation of biofilms that resemble clinical biofilms by a commonly-studied lab strain and ten cystic fibrosis isolates of this key opportunistic pathogen.', u'/content/early/2016/07/11/063222', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Nottingham']]
[u'Coordinates and Intervals in Graph-based Reference Genomes', ['Knut Dagestad Rand', 'Ivar Grytten', 'Alexander Nederbragt', 'Geir Olve Storvik', 'Ingrid Kristine Glad', 'Geir Kjetil Sandve'], u'July 11, 2016.', u'Motivation: It has been proposed that future reference genomes should be graph structures in order to better represent the sequence diversity present in a species. \n However, there is currently no standard method to represent genomic intervals, such as positions of genes, on graph-based reference genomes. \n\nResults: We formalize offset-based coordinate systems on graph-based reference genomes and introduce a method for representing intervals on these reference structures.  \nWe show the advantage of our method by representing genes on a graph-based representation of the GRCh38 version of the human genome and its alternative loci for regions that are highly variable.\n\nConclusion: More complex reference genomes, containing alternative loci, require methods to represent genomic data on these structures. \nOur proposed notation for genomic intervals makes it possible to fully utilize the alternative loci of GRCh38 and potential future graph-based reference genomes. \nWe illustrate our notation for genomic intervals, as well as the offset-based coordinate systems, through a web tool at: https://github.com/uio-cels/gen-graph-coords.', u'/content/early/2016/07/11/063206', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Oslo']]
[u'Shared predation: positive effects of predator distraction', ['Mickael Teixeira Alves', 'Frederic Grognard', 'Vincent Calcagno', 'Ludovic Mailleret'], u'July 11, 2016.', u'Simple rules based on population equilibria can characterize indirect interactions in three-species systems but fail to predict them when considering behavioral mechanisms. In this paper, we revisit the effects of shared predation, i.e. the situation in which two prey are consumed by a common predator. Such predation usually induces negative indirect interactions between prey, or apparent competition, through an increase of predator density and thus of predation pressure. Two mechanisms can however weaken apparent competition and lead to equivocal signs of indirect interactions. On the one hand, predator distraction, which stems from the difficulty to efficiently forage for different prey at the same moment in time and diminishes the number of prey captured per predator. On the other hand, predator negative density dependence limits predator growth. To get further insights into simple rules describing indirect interactions brought about by shared predation, we studied two classes of one-predator--two-prey models exhibiting these two mechanisms. We found robust simple rules derived from predator equilibria which state that at least one prey is favored by the presence of the other when the predators partition their foraging effort between them. These rules thus characterize a surprising wide range of indirect effects including apparent predation, apparent commensalism and apparent mutualism. They also highlight different situations in which larger predator populations do not entail smaller prey populations and in which neither prey species can be negatively affected by the other.', u'/content/early/2016/07/11/063230', [u'Ecology'], [u"Universite Cote d'Azur, INRA, CNRS, Inria;", u"Universite Cote d'Azur, Inria;", u"Universite Cote d'Azur, INRA, CNRS"]]
[u'Climate change vulnerability for species: assessing the assessments', ['Christopher Wheatley', 'Colin M Beale', 'Richard B Bradbury', 'James W Pearce-Higgins', 'Rob Critchlow', 'Chris D Thomas'], u'July 11, 2016.', u'Climate change vulnerability assessments are commonly used to identify species at risk from global climate change, but the wide range of methodologies available makes it difficult for end users, such as conservation practitioners or policy makers, to decide which method to use as a basis for decision-making. Here, we compare the outputs of 12 such climate change vulnerability assessment methodologies, using both real and simulated species, and we test the methods using historic data for British birds and butterflies (i.e., using historical data to assign risks, and more recent data for validation).  Our results highlight considerable inconsistencies in species risk assignment across all the approaches considered and suggest the majority of the frameworks are poor predictors of risk under climate change: two methods performed worse than random.  Methods that incorporated historic trend data were the only ones to have any validity at predicting distributional trends in subsequent time periods.', u'/content/early/2016/07/11/062646', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of York;', u'RSPB;', u'BTO']]
[u'Deconvolution model for cytometric microbial subgroups along a freshwater hydrologic continuum', ['Stefano Amalfitano', 'Stefano Fazi', 'Anna M Romani', 'Andrea Butturini'], u'July 11, 2016.', u'Flow cytometry is suitable to discriminate and quantify aquatic microbial cells within a spectrum of fluorescence and light scatter signals. Using fixed operational and gating settings, a mixture model, coupled to Laplacian operator and Nelder-Mead optimization algorithm, allowed deconvolving bivariate cytometric profiles into single cell subgroups. This procedure was applied to outline recurrent patterns and quantitative changes of the aquatic microbial community along a river hydrologic continuum. We found five major persistent subgroups within each of the commonly retrieved populations of cells with Low and High content of Nucleic Acids (namely, LNA and HNA cells). Moreover, we assessed changes of the cytometric community profile over-imposed by water inputs from a wastewater treatment plant. Our approach for multiparametric data deconvolution confirmed that flow cytometry could represent a prime candidate technology for assessing microbial community patterns in flowing waters.', u'/content/early/2016/07/11/063164', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Water Research Institute, National Research Council of Italy (IRSA-CNR), Rome, Italy;', u'Institute of Aquatic Ecology, University of Girona, Spain;', u'Department of Ecology, University of Barcelona, Spain']]
