[u'Draft genomes of clinical Bacillus cereus isolates AH725 and B06.009 closely related to reference strains ATCC 14579 and ATCC 10987', ['Thomas HA Haverkamp', 'Nicolas J Tourasse', 'Alexander J Nederbragt', 'Kjetill Sigurd Jakobsen', 'Anne-Brit Kolst', 'Ole Andreas kstad'], u'September 7, 2016.', u'Bacillus cereus strains B06.009 and AH725 were isolated from human cerebrospinal fluid and eye infection, respectively. Here we present their annotated draft genome sequences, which are highly similar to environmental B. cereus reference strains ATCC 10987 and ATCC 14579, underlining the opportunistic nature of B. cereus infections.', u'/content/early/2016/09/07/073924', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Centre for Ecological and Evolutionary Synthesis, Department of Biosciences, University of Oslo;', u'Laboratory for Microbial Dynamics, Section for Pharmaceutical Biosciences, University of Oslo;', u'Laboratory for Microbial Dynamics, School of Pharmacy, University of Oslo;', u'Centre for Integrative Microbial Evolution and School of Pharmacy, University of Oslo']]
[u'Preserved position information in high-level visual cortex with large receptive fields', ['Kei Majima', 'Paul Sukhanov', 'Tomoyasu Horikawa', 'Yukiyasu Kamitani'], u'September 7, 2016.', u"Neurons in high-level visual areas respond to more complex visual features with broader receptive fields (RFs) compared to those in low-level visual areas. Thus, high-level visual areas are generally considered to carry less information regarding the position of seen objects in the visual field. However, larger RFs may not imply loss of position information at the population level. Here, we evaluated how accurately the position of a seen object could be predicted (decoded) from activity patterns in each of six representative visual areas with different RF sizes (V1-V4, LOC, and FFA). We collected fMRI responses while subjects viewed a ball randomly moving in a two-dimensional field. To estimate population RF sizes of individual fMRI voxels, RF models were fitted for individual voxels in each brain area. The voxels in higher visual areas showed larger estimated RFs than those in lower visual areas. Then, the ball's position in a separate session was predicted by maximum likelihood estimation using the RF models of individual voxels. We also tested a model-free multivoxel regression (support vector regression, SVR) to predict the position. We found that regardless of the difference in RF size, all visual areas showed similar prediction accuracies, especially on the horizontal dimension. The results suggest that precise position information is available in population activity of higher visual cortex, and that it may be used in later neural processing for recognition and behavior.", u'/content/early/2016/09/07/073940', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Kyoto University;', u'ATR Computational Neuroscience Laboratories']]
[u'A Bayesian method for reducing bias in neural representational similarity analysis', ['Ming Bo Cai', 'Nicolas W Schuck', 'Jonathan Pillow', 'Yael Niv'], u'September 7, 2016.', u'In neuroscience, the similarity matrix of neural activity patterns in response to different sensory stimuli or under different cognitive states reflects the structure of neural representational space. Existing methods derive point estimations of neural activity patterns from noisy neural imaging data, and the similarity is calculated from these point estimations. We show that this approach translates structured noise from estimated patterns into spurious bias structure in the resulting similarity matrix, which is especially severe when signal-to-noise ratio is low and experimental conditions cannot be fully randomized in a cognitive task. We propose an alternative Bayesian framework for computing representational similarity in which we treat the covariance structure of neural activity patterns as a hyper-parameter in a generative model of the neural data, and directly estimate this covariance structure from imaging data while marginalizing over the unknown activity patterns. Converting the estimated covariance structure into a correlation matrix offers an unbiased estimate of neural representational similarity. Our method can also simultaneously estimate a signal-to-noise map that informs where the learned representational structure is supported more strongly, and the learned covariance matrix can be used as a structured prior to constrain Bayesian estimation of neural activity patterns.', u'/content/early/2016/09/07/073932', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University']]
[u'Extreme metagenomics using nanopore DNA sequencing: a field report from Svalbard, 78 N', ['Arwyn Edwards', 'Aliyah R Debbonaire', 'Birgit Sattler', 'Luis AJ Mur', 'Andrew J Hodson'], u'September 7, 2016.', u'In the field of observation, chance favours only the prepared mind (Pasteur). Impressive developments in genomics have led microbiology to its third \u2033Golden Age\u2033. However, conventional metagenomics strategies necessitate retrograde transfer of samples from extreme or remote environments for later analysis, rendering the powerful insights gained retrospective in nature, striking a contrast with Pasteur\u2032s dictum. Here we implement a highly portable USB-based nanopore DNA sequencing platform coupled with field-adapted environmental DNA extraction, rapid sequence library generation and off-line analyses of metagenome profiles to characterize the microbiota of a High Arctic glacier. The profile of the microbial communities produced by this approach are coherent with those from conventional amplicon and shotgun metagenome sequencing of glacier environments, and prompt testable hypotheses regarding microbial community structure and function on the basis of data generated and analysed while in the field. Moreover, we highlight the potential for oligonucleotide mixture model based metagenomic profiling of nanopore reads to deliver off-grid metagenomics analyses. Ultimately, in-field metagenomic sequencing potentiated by\nnanopore devices raises the prospect of considerably enhanced agility in exploring Earth\u2032s microbiomes.', u'/content/early/2016/09/07/073965', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Aberystwyth University;', u'Innsbruck University;', u'University of Sheffield']]
[u'Spatial patterning of P granules by RNA-induced phase separation of the intrinsically-disordered protein MEG-3', ['Jarrett Smith', 'Deepika Calidas', 'Helen Schmidt', 'Tu Lu', 'Dominique Rasoloson', 'Geraldine Seydoux'], u'September 7, 2016.', u'RNA granules are non-membrane bound cellular compartments that contain RNA and RNA binding proteins. The molecular mechanisms that regulate the spatial distribution of RNA granules in cells are poorly understood.  During polarization of the C. elegans zygote, germline RNA granules, called P granules, assemble preferentially in the posterior cytoplasm. We present evidence that P granule asymmetry depends on RNA-induced phase separation of the granule scaffold MEG-3. MEG-3 is an intrinsically disordered protein that binds and phase separates with RNA in vitro. In vivo, MEG-3 forms a posterior-rich concentration gradient that is anti-correlated with a gradient in the RNA-binding protein MEX-5. MEX-5 is necessary and sufficient to suppress MEG-3 granule formation in vivo, and suppresses RNA-induced MEG-3 phase separation in vitro. Our findings support a model whereby MEX-5 functions as an mRNA sink to locally suppress MEG-3 phase separation and drive P granule asymmetry.', u'/content/early/2016/09/07/073908', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Johns Hopkins Medical Institute']]
