[u'Environmental DNA Barcode Sequence Capture: Targeted, PCR-free Sequence Capture for Biodiversity Analysis from Bulk Environmental Samples', ['Shadi Shokralla', 'Joel Gibson', 'Ian King', 'Donald Baird', 'Daniel Janzen', 'Winnie Hallwachs', 'Mehrdad Hajibabaei'], u'November 13, 2016.', u'Environmental DNA analysis using PCR amplified marker genes has been a key application of high-throughput sequencing (HTS). However, PCR bias is a major drawback to gain accurate qualitative and quantitative biodiversity data. We developed a PCR-free approach using enrichment baits for species-specific mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase 1(COI) DNA barcodes. The sequence capture was tested on species-rich bulk terrestrial and aquatic benthic samples. Hybridization capture recovered an average of 6 and 4.7 more arthropod orders than amplicon sequencing for terrestrial  and benthic samples, respectively. For the terrestrial sample, the four most abundant arthropod orders comprised 94.0% of the sample biomass. These same four orders comprised 95.5% and 97.5% of the COI sequences recovered by amplification and capture, respectively. Hybridization capture recovered three arthropod orders that were detected by biomass analysis, but not by amplicon sequencing and two other insect orders that were not detected by either biomass or amplicon methods. These results indicate the advantage of using sequence capture for a more accurate analysis of biodiversity in bulk environmental samples. The protocol can be easily customized to other DNA barcode markers or gene regions of interest for a wide range of taxa or for a specific target group.', u'/content/early/2016/11/13/087437', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Guelph;', u'University of New Brunswick;', u'University of Pennsylvania']]
[u'A functional genomic meta-analysis of clinical trials in systemic sclerosis: towards precision medicine and combination therapy', ['Jaclyn N Taroni', 'Viktor Martyanov', 'J. Matthew Mahoney', 'Michael L Whitfield'], u'November 13, 2016.', u'Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is an orphan, systemic autoimmune disease with no FDA-approved treatments. Its heterogeneity and rarity often result in underpowered clinical trials making the analysis and interpretation of associated molecular data challenging. We performed a meta-analysis of gene expression data from skin biopsies of SSc patients treated with five therapies: mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), rituximab, abatacept, nilotinib, and fresolimumab. A common clinical improvement criterion of -20% OR -5 modified Rodnan Skin Score was applied to each study. We developed a machine learning approach that captured features beyond differential expression that was better at identifying targets of therapies than the differential expression alone. Regardless of treatment mechanism, abrogation of inflammatory pathways accompanied clinical improvement in multiple studies suggesting that high expression of immune-related genes indicates active and targetable disease. Our framework allowed us to compare different trials and ask if patients who failed one therapy would likely improve on a different therapy, based on changes in gene expression. Genes with high expression at baseline in fresolimumab non-improvers were downregulated in MMF improvers, suggesting that immunomodulatory or combination therapy may have benefitted these patients. This approach can be broadly applied to increase tissue-specificity and sensitivity of differential expression results.', u'/content/early/2016/11/13/087361', [u'Genomics'], [u'Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth;', u'College of Medicine University of Vermont']]
