[u'Kinematic analysis of cell lineage reveals coherent and robust mechanical deformation patterns in zebrafish gastrulation', ['David Pastor-Escuredo', 'Benoit Lombadot', 'Thierry Savy', 'Adeline Boyreau', 'Jose Maria Goicolea', 'Andres Santos', 'Paul Bourgine', 'Juan Carlos del Alamo', 'Nadine Peyrieras', 'Maria Jesus Ledesma Carbayo'], u'May 20, 2016.', u"Digital cell lineages reconstructed from 3D+time imaging data provide unique information to unveil mechanical cues and their role in morphogenetic processes. Our methodology based on a kinematic analysis of cell lineage data reveals deformation patterns and quantitative morphogenetic landmarks for a new type of developmental table. The characteristic spatial and temporal length scales of mechanical deformation patterns derived from a continuous approximation of cell displacements indicate a compressible fluid-like behavior of zebrafish gastrulating tissues. The instantaneous deformation rate at the mesoscopic level of the cell's neighborhood is spatially and temporally heterogeneous. The robustness of mechanical patterns results from their cumulative history along cell trajectories. Unsupervised classification of mechanical descriptor profiles was used to assess the homogeneity of biomechanical cues in cell populations. Further clustering of cell trajectories according to their cumulative mesoscopic biomechanical history during gastrulation revealed ordered and coherent spatiotemporal patterns comparable to that of the embryonic fate map.", u'/content/early/2016/05/20/054353', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'UPM;', u'Ecole Polytechnique;', u'CNRS;', u'UC San Diego']]
[u'Brain structure in pediatric Tourette syndrome', ['Alton C. Williams', 'Deanna J. Greene', 'Jonathan M. Koller', 'Bradley L. Schlaggar', 'Kevin J. Black'], u'May 20, 2016.', u'Previous studies of brain structure in Tourette syndrome (TS) have produced mixed results, and most had modest sample sizes. In the present multi-center study, we used structural MRI to compare 103 children and adolescents with TS to a well-matched group of 103 children without tics. We applied voxel-based morphometry methods to test gray matter (GM) and white matter (WM) volume differences between diagnostic groups, accounting for MRI scanner and sequence, age, sex and total GM + WM volume. The TS group demonstrated greater GM volume in posterior thalamus, hypothalamus and midbrain, and lower WM volume bilaterally in orbital and medial prefrontal cortex. These results demonstrate evidence for abnormal brain structure in children and youth with TS, consistent with and extending previous findings. As orbital cortex is reciprocally connected with hypothalamus, our results suggest that structural abnormalities in these regions may relate to abnormal behavioral inhibition and somatic monitoring in TS.', u'/content/early/2016/05/20/054437', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Medical University of South Carolina;', u'Washington University in St. Louis;', u'Washington University School of Medicine']]
[u'Millions of Boreal Shield Lakes can be used to Probe the Evolution of Archaean Ocean Life', ['Sherry Schiff', 'Jackson Tsuji', 'Lingling Wu', 'Jason Venkiteswaran', 'Lewis Molot', 'Richard Elgood', 'Michael Paterson', 'Josh Neufeld'], u'May 20, 2016.', u"Ancient oceans on Earth were rich in iron, low in sulfur, and free of oxygen. The evolution of life, the onset of photosynthesis, and the subsequent oxidation of Earth's early oceans and atmosphere have long fostered intense debate. Very few analogous modern systems have been identified for study and most evidence has been gleaned from the sedimentary rock record, spurred by controversy surrounding the origin of the globally ubiquitous and extensive banded iron formations (BIFs). Here we provide the first evidence that Boreal Shield lakes can serve as modern analogues for the Archaean ocean. Specifically, we combine isotopic and molecular data to demonstrate that photoferrotrophy, a process involving photosynthetic fixation of carbon using reduced iron as an electron donor, occurs in the anoxic zone of stratified boreal lakes that are naturally low in sulfur and rich in iron. Further, anoxygenic photosynthetic processes are active in the water column, are prominent in the total metabolism of these bottom waters, and are marked by distinctive patterns in naturally occurring isotopes of carbon, nitrogen, and iron. Most importantly, these processes are robust, returning after water column re-oxygenation following lake turnover. Evidence of coupled iron oxidation, iron reduction, and methane oxidation has implications for both early Earth and modern systems. Previous studies have been confined to permanently stratified but low sulfur lakes on the assumption that photoferrotrophic bacteria are oxygen intolerant. Given that Boreal Shield lakes and ponds number in the tens of millions, and several can be manipulated experimentally, opportunities for exploring the evolution of life on ancient Earth are now greatly expanded.", u'/content/early/2016/05/20/054478', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Waterloo;', u'Wilfrid Laurier University;', u'York University;', u'IISD-Experimental Lakes Area']]
[u'Selective vulnerability of the brain to mutational classes explain why the same types of genes underlie different neuropsychiatric diseases', ['Shahar Shohat', 'Eyal Ben-David', 'Sagiv Shifman'], u'May 20, 2016.', u'Genetic susceptibility to Intellectual disability (ID), autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and schizophrenia (SCZ) often arises from mutations in the same genes, suggesting that they share common mechanisms. We studied genes with de novo mutations in the three disorders and genes implicated by a SCZ genome-wide association study (GWAS). Using biological annotations and brain gene expression, we show that the type of mutation explains enrichment patterns. Across disorders, genes with loss of function mutations and genes with missense mutations were enriched with different pathways, shared with genes highly intolerant to mutations. Expression patterns in the brain account for differences between disorders. Compared to ID, ASD genes are preferentially expressed also in fetal cerebellum and striatum; genes associated with SCZ were most significantly enriched in adolescent cortex. Our study suggests that convergence across neuropsychiatric disorders stems from pathways that are vulnerable to genetic variations, but the spatiotemporal activity of genes contributes to specific phenotypes.', u'/content/early/2016/05/20/054460', [u'Genetics'], [u'The Hebrew University of Jerusalem']]
[u'Diagnostic assessments of student thinking about stochastic processes.', ['Michael W. Klymkowsky', 'Katja Koehler', 'Melanie Cooper'], u'May 20, 2016.', u'A number of research studies indicate that students often have difficulties in understanding the presence and/or the implications of stochastic processes within biological systems. While critical to a wide range of phenomena, the presence and implications of stochastic processes are rarely explicitly considered in the course of formal instruction. To help instructors identify gaps in student understanding, we have designed and tested six open source activities covering a range of scenarios, from death rates to noise in gene expression, that can be employed, alone or in combination, as diagnostics to reveal student thinking as a prelude to the presentation of stochastic processes within a course or a curriculum.', u'/content/early/2016/05/20/053991', [u'Scientific Communication'], [u'University of Colorado Boulder;', u'Eidgenossische Technische Hochschule (ETH);', u'Michigan State University']]
[u'Disruption of human astn2 function by ZIKV ns4b gene as a molecular basis for Zika viral microcephaly', ['Bhaskar Ganguly', 'Enakshi Ganguly'], u'May 20, 2016.', u'The present Zika virus (ZIKV) pandemic is being associated with increased incidence of microcephaly in newborns. However, a molecular basis for such pathogenesis is distinctly lacking. Comparative nucleic acid sequence analysis showed similarity between regions of non-structural protein 4B (ns4b) gene of ZIKV and human astrotactin2 (astn2) gene. Based on these findings, a molecular target of Zika viral microcephaly is being proposed.', u'/content/early/2016/05/20/054486', [u'Genomics'], [u'Animal Biotechnology Center;', u'MediCiti Institute of Medical Sciences']]
[u'Long shelf-life streptavidin support-films suitable for electron microscopy of biological macromolecules', ['Bong-Gyoon Han', 'Zoe Watson', 'Hannah Kang', 'Arto Pulk', 'Kenneth Downing', 'Jamie Cate', 'Robert Glaeser'], u'May 20, 2016.', u'We describe a rapid and convenient method of growing streptavidin (SA) monolayer crystals directly on holey-carbon EM grids. As expected, these SA monolayer crystals retain their biotin-binding function and crystalline order through a cycle of embedding in trehalose and, later, its removal. This fact allows one to prepare, and store for later use, EM grids on which SA monolayer crystals serve as an affinity substrate for preparing specimens of biological macromolecules. In addition, we report that coating the lipid-tail side of trehalose-embedded monolayer crystals with evaporated carbon appears to improve the consistency with which well-ordered, single crystals are observed to span over entire, 2 \u03bcm holes of the support films. Randomly biotinylated 70 S ribosomes are used as a test specimen to show that these support films can be used to obtain a high-resolution cryo-EM structure.', u'/content/early/2016/05/20/054452', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory;', u'University of California, Berkeley;', u'UC Berkeley']]
[u'A better design for stratified medicine based on genomic prediction', ['Sang Hong Lee', 'W.M. Shalanee P. Weerasinghe', 'Naomi Wray', 'Michael Goddard', 'Julius Van der Werf'], u'May 20, 2016.', u'Genomic prediction shows promise for personalised medicine in which diagnosis and treatment are tailored to individuals based on their genetic profiles. Genomic prediction is arguably the greatest need for complex diseases and disorders for which both genetic and non-genetic factors contribute to risk. However, we have no adequate insight of the accuracy of such predictions, and how accuracy may vary between individuals or between populations. In this study, we present a theoretical framework to demonstrate that prediction accuracy can be maximised by targeting more informative individuals in a discovery set with closer relationships with the subjects, making prediction more similar to those in populations with small effective size (Ne). Increase of prediction accuracy from closer relationships is achieved under an additive model and does not rely on any interaction effects (gene \xd7 gene, gene \xd7 environment or gene \xd7 family). Using theory, simulations and real data analyses, we show that the predictive accuracy or the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) increased exponentially with decreasing Ne. For example, with a set of realistic parameters (the sample size of discovery set N=3000 and heritability h2=0.5), AUC value approached to 0.9 (Ne = 100) from 0.6 (Ne = 10000), and the top percentile of the estimated genetic profile scores had 23 times higher proportion of cases than the general population (with Ne = 100), which increased from 2 times higher proportion of cases (with Ne = 10000). This suggests that different interventions in the top percentile risk groups maybe justified (i.e. stratified medicine). In conclusion, it is argued that there is considerable room to increase prediction accuracy for polygenic traits by using an efficient design of a smaller Ne (e.g. a design consisting of closer relationships) so that genomic prediction can be more beneficial in clinical applications in the near future.', u'/content/early/2016/05/20/054494', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of New England;', u'The University of Queensland;', u'University of Melbourne']]
[u'Population effect of influenza vaccination under co-circulation of non-vaccine variants and the case for a multi-strain A/H3N2 vaccine component', ['Colin J Worby', 'Jacco Wallinga', 'Marc Lipsitch', 'Edward Goldstein'], u'May 20, 2016.', u'Abstract \nSome past epidemics of different influenza (sub)types (particularly A/H3N2) in the US saw co-circulation of vaccine-type and variant strains. There is evidence that natural infection with one influenza (sub)type offers short-term protection against infection with another influenza (sub)type (henceforth, cross-immunity). This suggests that such cross-immunity for strains within a (sub)type is expected to be strong. Therefore, while vaccination effective against one strain may reduce transmission of that strain, this may also lead to a reduction of the ability of the vaccine-type strain to suppress spread of a variant strain. It remains unclear what the joint effect of vaccination and cross-immunity is for co-circulating influenza strains, and what is the potential benefit of a bivalent vaccine that protects against both strains. \nWe simulated co-circulation of vaccine-type and variant strains under a variety of scenarios. In each scenario, we considered the case when the vaccine efficacy against the variant strain is lower than the efficacy against the vaccine-type strain (monovalent vaccine), as well the case when vaccine is equally efficacious against both strains (bivalent vaccine). \nAdministration of a bivalent vaccine results in a significant reduction in the overall incidence of infection compared to administration of a monovalent vaccine, even with lower coverage by the bivalent vaccine. Additionally, we found that the stronger is the degree of cross-immunity, the less beneficial is the increase in coverage levels for the monovalent vaccine, and the more beneficial is the introduction of the bivalent vaccine. \nOur work exhibits the limitations of influenza vaccines that have low efficacy against non-vaccine strains, and demonstrates the benefits of vaccines that offer good protection against multiple influenza strains. The results elucidate the need for guarding against the potential co-circulation of non-vaccine strains for an influenza (sub)type, at least during select seasons, possibly through inclusion of multiple strains within a (sub)type (particularly A/H3N2) in a vaccine.', u'/content/early/2016/05/20/054403', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health;', u'National Institute of Public Health and the Environment (RIVM)']]
[u'High-throughput mapping of single neuron projections by sequencing of barcoded RNA', ['Justus M Kebschull', 'Pedro Garcia da Silva', 'Ashlan P Reid', 'Ian D Peikon', 'Dinu F Albeanu', 'Anthony M Zador'], u'May 20, 2016.', u'Neurons transmit information to distant brain regions via long-range axonal projections. In the mouse, area-to-area connections have only been systematically mapped using bulk labeling techniques, which obscure the diverse projections of intermingled single neurons. Here we describe MAPseq (Multiplexed Analysis of Projections by Sequencing), a technique that can map the projections of thousands or even millions of single neurons by labeling large sets of neurons with random RNA sequences ("barcodes"). Axons are filled with barcode mRNA, each putative projection area is dissected, and the barcode mRNA is extracted and sequenced. Applying MAPseq to the locus coeruleus (LC), we find that individual LC neurons have preferred cortical targets. By recasting neuroanatomy, which is traditionally viewed as a problem of microscopy, as a problem of sequencing, MAPseq harnesses advances in sequencing technology to permit high-throughput interrogation of brain circuits.', u'/content/early/2016/05/20/054312', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory']]
[u'Continuous Genetic Recording with Self-Targeting CRISPR-Cas in Human Cells', ['Samuel Perli', 'Cheryl Cui', 'Timothy K Lu'], u'May 20, 2016.', u'The ability to longitudinally track and record molecular events in vivo would provide a unique opportunity to monitor signaling dynamics within cellular niches and to identify critical factors in orchestrating cellular behavior. We present a self-contained analog memory device that enables the recording of molecular stimuli in the form of DNA mutations in human cells. The memory unit consists of a self-targeting guide RNA (stgRNA) cassette that repeatedly directs Streptococcus pyogenes Cas9 nuclease activity towards the DNA that encodes the stgRNA, thereby enabling localized, continuous DNA mutagenesis as a function of stgRNA expression. We analyze the temporal sequence evolution dynamics of stgRNAs containing 20, 30 and 40 nucleotide SDSes (Specificity Determining Sequences) and create a population-based recording metric that conveys information about the duration and/or intensity of stgRNA activity. By expressing stgRNAs from engineered, inducible RNA polymerase (RNAP) III promoters, we demonstrate programmable and multiplexed memory storage in human cells triggered by doxycycline and isopropyl \u03b2-D-1-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG). Finally, we show that memory units encoded in human cells implanted in mice are able to record lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced acute inflammation over time. This tool, which we call Mammalian Synthetic Cellular Recorder Integrating Biological Events (mSCRIBE), provides a unique strategy for investigating cell biology in vivo and in situ and may drive further applications that leverage continuous evolution of targeted DNA sequences in mammalian cells.', u'/content/early/2016/05/20/053058', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'MIT;', u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology']]
[u'DeepCyTOF: Automated Cell Classification of Mass Cytometry Data by Deep Learning and Domain Adaptation', ['Huamin Li', 'Uri Shaham', 'Yi Yao', 'Ruth Montgomery', 'Yuval Kluger'], u'May 20, 2016.', u'Mass cytometry or CyTOF is an emerging technology for high-dimensional multi parameter single cell analysis that overcomes many limitations of fluorescence-based flow cytometry. New methods are being published for analyzing CyTOF data attempt to improve automation, scalability, performance, and interpretation of data generated in large studies. However, most current tools are less suitable for routine use where analysis must be standardized, reproducible, interpretable, and comparable. Assigning individual cells into discrete groups of cell types (gating) involves time-consuming sequential manual steps untenable for larger studies. The subjectivity of manual gating introduces variability into the data and impacts reproducibility and comparability of results, particularly in multi-center studies. The FlowCAP consortium aims to boost user confidence in the viability of automated gating methods. We introduce DeepCyTOF, a standardization approach for gating based on a multi-autoencoder neural network. DeepCyTOF requires labeled cells from only a single sample. It is based on domain adaptation principles and is a generalization of previous work to more than two samples. We apply DeepCyTOF to two CyTOF datasets generated from primary immune blood cells: (i) 14 subjects with a history of infection with West Nile virus (WNV), and (ii) 34 healthy subjects of different ages. Each blood sample was labeled with 42 antibody markers at baseline and three different stimuli (PMA/ionomycin, tumor cell line K562, and infection with WNV). In each of these datasets we manually gated a single baseline reference sample to automatically gate the remaining uncalibrated samples. We show that DeepCyTOF cell classification is highly concordant with cell classification obtained by individual manual gating of each sample with over 99% concordance. Additionally, we apply a stacked autoencoder, which is one of the building blocks of DeepCyTOF, to cytometry datasets used in the 4th challenge of the FlowCAP-I competition and demonstrate that it over performs relative to all gating methods introduced in this competition. We conclude that stacked auto encoders combined with a domain adaptation procedure offers a powerful computational approach for semi-automated gating of CyTOF and flow cytometry data such that manual gating of one reference sample is sufficient for accurately gating the remaining samples.', u'/content/early/2016/05/20/054411', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Yale University']]
[u'Best Practices in Data Analysis and Sharing in Neuroimaging using MRI', ['Thomas E. Nichols', 'Samir Das', 'Simon B. Eickhoff', 'Alan C. Evans', 'Tristan Glatard', 'Michael Hanke', 'Nikolaus Kriegeskorte', 'Michae P. Milham', 'Russell A. Poldrack', 'Jean-Baptiste Poline', 'Erika Proal', 'Bertrand Thirion', 'David C. Van Essen', 'Tonya White', 'B. T. Thomas Yeo'], u'May 20, 2016.', u'Neuroimaging enables rich noninvasive measurements of human brain activity, but translating such data into neuroscientific insights and clinical applications requires complex analyses and collaboration among a diverse array of researchers. The open science movement is reshaping scientific culture and addressing the challenges of transparency and reproducibility of research. To advance open science in neuroimaging the Organization for Human Brain Mapping created the Committee on Best Practice in Data Analysis and Sharing (COBIDAS), charged with creating a report that collects best practice recommendations from experts and the entire brain imaging community. The purpose of this work is to elaborate the principles of open and reproducible research for neuroimaging using Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), and then distill these principles to specific research practices. Many elements of a study are so varied that practice cannot be prescribed, but for these areas we detail the information that must be reported to fully understand and potentially replicate a study. For other elements of a study, like statistical modelling where specific poor practices can be identified, and the emerging areas of data sharing and reproducibility, we detail both good practice and reporting standards. For each of seven areas of a study we provide tabular listing of over 100 items to help plan, execute, report and share research in the most transparent fashion. Whether for individual scientists, or for editors and reviewers, we hope these guidelines serve as a benchmark, to raise the standards of practice and reporting in neuroimaging using MRI.', u'/content/early/2016/05/20/054262', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Warwick;', u'McGill University;', u'Heinrich-Heine University Dusseldorf;', u'Otto-von-Guericke-University Magdeburg;', u'MRC Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit;', u'Child Mind Institute;', u'Stanford University;', u'University of California, Berkeley;', u'Instituto Nacional de Psiquiatria Ramon de la Fuente Muniz & Neuroingenia;', u'Inria, Paris-Saclay University;', u'Washington University in St. Louis;', u'Erasmus University Medical Center;', u'National University of Singapore']]
