[u'iVirus: facilitating new insights in viral ecology with software and community datasets imbedded in a cyberinfrastructure', ['Benjamin Bolduc', 'Ken Youens-Clark', 'Simon Roux', 'Bonnie L Hurwitz', 'Matthew B Sullivan'], u'May 10, 2016.', u'Microbes impact nutrient and energy transformations throughout the world\'s ecosystems, yet they do so under viral constraints. In complex communities, viral metagenome (virome) sequencing is transforming our ability to quantify viral diversity and impacts. While some bottlenecks, e.g., few reference genomes and non-quantitative viromics, have been overcome, the void of centralized datasets and specialized tools now prevents viromics from being broadly applied to answer fundamental ecological questions. Here we present iVirus, a community resource that leverages the CyVerse cyberinfrastructure to provide access to viromic tools and datasets. The iVirus Data Commons contains both raw and processed data from 1866 samples and 73 projects derived from global ocean expeditions, as well as existing and legacy public repositories. Through the CyVerse Discovery Environment, users can interrogate these datasets using existing analytical tools (software applications known as "Apps") for assembly, ORF prediction, and annotation, as well as several new Apps specifically developed for analyzing viromes. Because Apps are web-based and powered by CyVerse super-computing resources, they enable scalable analyses for a broad user base. Finally, a use-case scenario documents how to apply these advances towards new data. This growing iVirus resource should help researchers utilize viromics as yet another tool to elucidate viral roles in nature.', u'/content/early/2016/05/10/052597', [], [u'The Ohio State University;', u'University of Arizona']]
[u'Effect of population structure and migration when investigating genetic continuity using ancient DNA', ['Nuno M Silva', 'Susanne Kreutzer', 'Christina Papageorgopoulou', 'Mathias Currat'], u'May 10, 2016.', u'Recent advances in sequencing techniques provide means to access direct genetic snapshots from the past with ancient DNA data (aDNA) from diverse periods of human prehistory. Comparing samples taken in the same region but at different time periods may indicate if there is continuity in the peopling history of that area or if a large genetic input, such as an immigration wave, has occurred. Here we propose a new modeling approach for investigating population continuity using aDNA, including two fundamental elements in human evolution that were absent from previous methods: population structure and migration. The method also considers the extensive temporal and geographic heterogeneity commonly found in aDNA datasets. We compare our spatially-explicit approach to the previous non-spatial method and show that it is more conservative and thus suitable for testing population continuity, especially when small, isolated populations, such as prehistoric ones, are considered. Moreover, our approach also allows investigating partial population continuity and we apply it to a real dataset of ancient mitochondrial DNA. We estimate that 91% of the current genetic pool in central Europe entered the area with immigrant Neolithic farmers, but a genetic contribution of local hunter-gatherers as large as 83% cannot be entirely ruled out.', u'/content/early/2016/05/10/052548', [], [u'Department of Genetics & Evolution-Anthropology Unit, University of Geneva, 1211 Geneva, Switzerland;', u'Palaeogenetics Group, Institute of Anthropology, Johannes Gutenberg University, 55099 Mainz, Germany;', u'Lab of Anthropology, Dept of History & Ethnology, Democritus University of Thrace, Komotini, Greece']]
[u'Systems-level chromosomal parameters represent the suprachromosomal basis for a non-random chromosomal arrangement in human interphase nuclei', ['Sarosh N. Fatakia', 'Ishita S. Mehta', 'Basuthkar J. Rao'], u'May 10, 2016.', u'Forty-six chromosome territories (CTs) are positioned uniquely in the human interphase nuclei, wherein each of their position can range from the center of the nucleus to its periphery. A non-empirical basis for their non-random arrangement remains unreported. Here, we derive a suprachromosomal basis of that overall arrangement (which we refer to as a CT constellation), and report a hierarchical nature of the same. Using matrix algebra, we unify intrinsic chromosomal parameters (e.g., chromosomal length, gene density, the number of genes per chromosome), to derive an extrinsic effective gene density matrix, the hierarchy of which is dominated by the extrinsic mathematical coupling of HSA19, followed by HSA17 (human chromosome 19 and 17, both preferentially interior CTs) with all CTs. We corroborate predicted constellations and the effective gene density hierarchy with published reports from fluorescent in situ hybridization based microscopy and Hi-C techniques, and delineate analogous hierarchy in disparate vertebrates. Our theory accurately predicts CTs localized to the nuclear interior, which interestingly share conserved synteny with HSA19 and/or HSA17. Finally, the effective gene density hierarchy dictates how inter-CT permutations represent plasticity within constellations and we suggest that a differential mix of coding with noncoding genome may modulate the same.', u'/content/early/2016/05/10/052498', [], [u'Tata Institute of Fundamental Research;', u'University of Mumbai -DAE Centre for Excellence']]
[u'Personal Pharmacogenetic Testing Enhances Pharmacy Student Knowledge and Attitude Towards Precision Medicine', ['Dalga Surofchy', 'Sam Oh', 'Joshua Galanter', 'Pin Xiang', 'Megan Li', 'Su Guo', 'Tejal Desai', 'Bernard Joseph Guglielmo', 'Kathy Giacomini', 'Janel Long-Boyle', 'Alan HB Wu', 'Esteban G Burchard'], u'May 10, 2016.', u'Objective: To evaluate if pharmacy students participation in personal pharmacogenetic testing enhances their knowledge and attitude towards precision medicine (PM).\n\nMethods: First-year pharmacy students were offered personalized pharmacogenetic testing as a supplement to a required curricular pharmacogenomics course. Ninety-eight of 122 (80%) students completed pre- and post-course surveys assessing knowledge and attitudes regarding PM; 73 students also volunteered for personal pharmacogenetic testing of the following drug metabolizing enzymes (CYP2C19, CYP2D6, UGT1A1) and pharmacodynamics-relevant proteins (interleukin (IL)-28B & human lymphocyte antigen HLAB*5701).\n\nResults: An online Likert-based survey was distributed to 1st-year PharmD students. Using a linear mixed effects model, we observed significant improvements in 100% of knowledge and 70% of attitude-related questions for students who decided to undergo pharmacogenetic testing.\n\nConclusion: Personal pharmacogenetic testing significantly enhances knowledge of and attitude toward pharmacogenomics among PharmD trainees. This study demonstrates the feasibility and importance of educating future pharmacists by incorporating pharmacogenetic testing into professional school curricula.', u'/content/early/2016/05/10/052043', [], [u'School of Pharmacy, University of California, San Francisco;', u'Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco;', u'Department of Bioengineering & Therapeutic Sciences, University of California, San Francisco;', u'Department of Clinical Pharmacy, University of California, San Francisco;', u'Department of Laboratory Medicine, University of California, San Francisco']]
[u'Measuring Mechanodynamics using an Unsupported Epithelial Monolayer Grown at an Air-Water Interface', ['Corinne Gullekson', 'Matthew Walker', 'James L. Harden', 'Andrew Pelling'], u'May 10, 2016.', u"Actomyosin contraction and relaxation in a monolayer is a fundamental biophysical process in development and homeostasis. Current methods used to characterize the mechanodynamics of monolayers often involve cells grown on solid supports such as glass or gels. The results of these studies are fundamentally influenced by these supporting structures. Here, we describe a new methodology for measuring the mechanodynamics of epithelial monolayers by culturing cells at an air-liquid interface. These model monolayers are grown in the absence of any supporting structures allowing us to remove cell-substrate effects. This method's potential was evaluated by observing and quantifying the generation and release of internal stresses upon actomyosin contraction (32\xb150Pa) and relaxation (190\xb140Pa) in response to chemical treatments. This is in contrast to the results observed in monolayers grown on solid substrates (glass and gels) where movement was drastically muted. Tracking the displacement of cell nuclei, cell edges and cluster perimeter allowed us to quantify the strain dynamics in the monolayer indicating the reliability of this method. New insights were also revealed with this approach. Although unsupported monolayers exhibited clear major and minor strain axes, they were not correlated to the general alignment of cell nuclei. The situation was dramatically different when the monolayers were grown on soft gels and hard glass substrates. It was observed that both gels and glass substrates led to the promotion of long-range alignment of cell nuclei. In addition, the strain orientation was correlated to nuclear alignment on the soft deformable gels. This new approach provides us with a picture of basal actomyosin mechanodynamics in a simplified system allowing us to infer how the presence of a substrate impacts actomyosin contractility and long-range multi-cellular organization and dynamics.  This new methodology will also enable many new questions to be asked about the molecular regulation of the mechanodynamics of unsupported monolayers.", u'/content/early/2016/05/10/052555', [], [u'University of Ottawa;', u'University ofOttawa']]
[u'The effect of local inter-inhibitory connectivity on the dynamics of an activity-dependent neuronal network growth model', ['Rosanna Barnard', 'Istvan Zoltan Kiss', 'Luc Berthouze'], u'May 10, 2016.', u'The balance between excitation and inhibition in a neuronal network is considered to be an important predictor of neural excitability. Various processes are thought to maintain this balance across a range of stimuli/conditions. However, the developmental formation of this balance remains an open question, especially regarding the interplay between network blue-print (the spatial arrangement of excitatory and inhibitory nodes) and homeostatic processes. In this paper, we use a published model of activity-dependent growth to show that the E/I ratio alone cannot accurately predict system behaviour but rather it is the combination of this ratio and the underlying spatial arrangement of neurones that predict both activity in, and structure of, the resulting network. In particular, we highlight the particular role of clustered inter-inhibitory connectivity. We develop a measure that allows us to determine the relationship between inter-inhibitory connectivity clustering and system behaviour in an exhaustive list of spatial arrangements with a given fixed number of excitatory and inhibitory neurones. Our results reveal that, for a given E/I ratio, networks with high levels of inter-inhibitory clustering are more likely to experience oscillatory behaviour than networks with low levels, and we investigate the network attributes which characterise each global behaviour type produced by the model. We identify possible approaches for extensions of the current work, and discuss the implications these results may have on future modelling studies in this field.', u'/content/early/2016/05/10/052589', [], [u'University of Sussex, UK']]
[u'myCircos: Facilitating the Creation and Use of Circos Plots Online', ['Caroline Labelle', 'Genevieve Boucher', 'Sebastien Lemieux'], u'May 10, 2016.', u'Circos plots were designed to display large amounts of processed genomic information on a single graphical representation. The creation of such plots remains challenging for less technical users as the leading tool requires command-line proficiency. Here, we introduce myCircos, a web application that facilitates the generation of Circos plots by providing an intuitive user interface, adding interactive functionalities to the representation and providing persistence of previous requests. myCircos is available at: http://mycircos.iric.ca. Non registered users can explore the application through the Guest user. Source code (for local server installation) is available upon request.', u'/content/early/2016/05/10/052605', [], [u'Universit\xe9 de Montr\xe9al']]
[u'Chromatin variation associated with liver metabolism is mediated by transposable elements', ['Juan Du', 'Amy Leung', 'Candi Trac', 'Brian W. Parks', 'Aldons J. Lusis', 'Rama Natarajan', 'Dustin E. Schones'], u'May 10, 2016.', u'Background: Functional regulatory regions in eukaryotic genomes are characterized by the disruption of nucleosomes leading to accessible chromatin. The modulation of chromatin accessibility is one of the key mediators of transcriptional regulation and variation in chromatin accessibility across individuals has been liked to complex traits and disease susceptibility. While mechanisms responsible for chromatin variation across individuals have been investigated, the overwhelming majority of chromatin variation remains unexplained. Furthermore, the processes through which the variation of chromatin accessibility contributes to phenotypic diversity remain poorly understood.\nResults: We profiled chromatin accessibility in liver from seven strains of mice with phenotypic diversity in response to a high-fat/high-sucrose (HF/HS) diet and identified reproducible chromatin variation across the genome. We found that sites of variable chromatin accessibility were more likely to coincide with particular classes of transposable elements (TEs) than sites with common chromatin features. Evolutionarily younger long interspersed nuclear elements (LINEs) are particularly enriched for variable chromatin sites. These younger LINEs are enriched for binding sites of immune-associated transcription factors, whereas older LINEs are enriched for liver-specific transcription factors. Genomic region enrichment analysis indicates that variable chromatin sites at TEs contribute to liver metabolic pathways. Finally, we show that polymorphism of TEs and differential DNA methylation at TEs can both contribute to chromatin variation.\nConclusions: Our results demonstrate specific classes of TEs contribute to chromatin accessibility variation across strains of mice that display phenotypic diversity in response to a HF/HS diet. These results indicate that regulatory variation at TEs is an important contributor to phenotypic variation among populations.', u'/content/early/2016/05/10/052571', [], [u'Beckman Research Institute of City of Hope;', u'University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison;', u'University of California, Los Angeles']]
[u'A cellular and regulatory map of the GABAergic nervous system of C. elegans', ['Marie Gendrel', 'Emily G Atlas', 'Oliver Hobert'], u'May 10, 2016.', u"The nervous system of the nematode C. elegans is the only nervous system with a complete parts list and a complete wiring diagram. Neurotransmitter maps are important complements to such anatomical maps and represent an invaluable resource that will help to understand how signals are transmitted throughout the nervous system and how a nervous system is developmentally patterned. In this resource paper, we report a comprehensive map of neurons in the hermaphroditic and male C. elegans nervous system that contain the neurotransmitter GABA, the most prominent inhibitory neurotransmitter in mammalian nervous systems. We reveal twice as many GABA-positive neuron classes as previously reported, several of them also cotransmitting acetylcholine. We define previously unknown glia-like cells that reuptake GABA, as well as 'GABA reuptake neurons' which do not synthesize GABA but take it up from the extracellular environment. One GABA reuptake neuron type may clear GABA thereby possibly modulating GABAergic neurotransmission ('GABA clearance' neuron), while another GABA reuptake neuron type may re-release GABA (termed 'GABA recycling' neuron). We used the map of GABA-positive neurons for a comprehensive analysis of transcriptional regulators that define the GABA phenotype. We show that nine transcription factors operate in specific combinations to control GABAergic identity of most GABAergic neuron classes. Among these factors is elt-1, the C. elegans ortholog of GATA2/3, a selector gene of GABAergic identity of several distinct types of GABAergic neurons in vertebrates. Other factors that control GABAergic identity include the Tlx-type nuclear hormone receptor nhr-67 which controls the identity of four distinct GABAergic neuron classes, in which, depending on neuron type, nhr-67 cooperates with three different types of homeobox genes. We also identified homeobox genes that specify GABA recycling neurons and GABA clearance neurons. The regulators of GABAergic neuron identity do not only specify neurotransmitter identity, but multiple other identity features as well. We synthesize our findings of specification of GABAergic neurons with previous reports on the specification of glutamatergic and cholinergic neurons into a nervous system-wide regulatory map which defines neurotransmitter specification mechanisms for more than half of all neuron classes in C. elegans.", u'/content/early/2016/05/10/052431.1', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Columbia University']]
[u'Local field potentials primarily reflect inhibitory neuron activity in human and monkey cortex', ['Bartosz Telenczuk', 'Nima Dehghani', 'Michel Le Van Quyen', 'Sydney S Cash', 'Eric Halgren', 'Nicholas G Hatsopoulos', 'Alain Destexhe'], u'May 10, 2016.', u'The local field potential (LFP) is generated by large populations of neurons, but unitary contribution of spiking neurons to LFP is not well characterized.  We investigated this contribution in multi-electrode array recordings from the cerebral cortex of human and monkey by calculating the spike-triggered LFP average (st-LFP). The resulting st-LFPs were dominated by broad spatio-temporal components due to on-going activity, synaptic inputs and recurrent connectivity. To observe the local field of a single spike we applied spatial filtering. The filtered st-LFPs were limited to an area of 800 \t\u03bcm from the neuron, and propagated at axonal speed, which is consistent with their unitary nature. In addition, we discriminated between putative inhibitory and excitatory neurons and found that the former dominated this unitary LFP contribution, consistently with previous findings in hippocampal slices. Thus, in human and monkey cortex, the LFP may primarily reflect inhibitory neuron activity.', u'/content/early/2016/05/10/052282', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'UNIC, CNRS;', u'Wyss Institute for Biologically-Inspired Engineering, Harvard University;', u"L'Institut du Cerveau et de la Moelle Epiniere, UMRS 1127, CNRS UMR 7225, Hopital de la Pitie-Salpet;", u'Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School;', u'Multimodal Imaging Laboratory, Departments of Neurosciences and Radiology, University of California;', u'Dept Organismal Biology and Anatomy, Committee on Computational Neuroscience, University of Chicago;', u'Unite de Neurosciences, Information & Complexite, Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique']]
[u'DIVERGENT IMMUNE PRIMING RESPONSES ACROSS FLOUR BEETLE LIFE STAGES AND POPULATIONS', ['Imroze Khan', 'Arun Prakash', 'Deepa Agashe'], u'May 10, 2016.', u'Growing evidence shows that low doses of pathogens may prime the immune response in many insects, conferring subsequent protection against infection in the same developmental stage (within life stage priming), across life stages (ontogenic priming), or to offspring (trans-generational priming). Recent work also suggests that immune priming is a costly response. Thus, depending on host and pathogen ecology and evolutionary history, tradeoffs with other fitness components may constrain the evolution of priming. However, the relative impacts of priming at different life stages and across natural populations remain unknown. We quantified immune priming responses of 10 natural populations of the red flour beetle Tribolium castaneum, primed and infected with the natural insect pathogen Bacillus thuringiensis. We found that priming responses were highly variable both across life stages and populations, ranging from no detectable response to a 13-fold survival benefit. Comparing across stages, we found that ontogenic immune priming at the larval stage conferred maximum protection against infection. Finally, we found that various forms of priming showed sex-specific associations that may represent tradeoffs or shared mechanisms. These results suggest that sex-, life stage-, and pathogen- specific selective pressures can cause substantial divergence in priming responses even within a species. Our work highlights the necessity of further work to understand the mechanistic basis of this variability.', u'/content/early/2016/05/10/052472', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'National Centre for Biological Sciences;', u'National Centre for Biological Sceinces']]
[u'Automatic classification of behavior in zebrafish larvae', ['Adrien Jouary', 'German Sumbre'], u'May 10, 2016.', u'Zebrafish larvae navigate the environment by discrete episode of propulsion called bouts. We introduce a novel method for automatically classifying zebrafish tail movements. We used a supervised soft-clustering algorithm to categorize tail bouts into 5 categories of movements: Scoot, Asymmetrical Scoot, Routine Turn, C Bend and Burst. Tail bouts were correctly classified with 82% chance while errors in the classification occurred mostly between similar categories. Although previous studies have performed categorization of behavior in free-swimming conditions, our method does not rely on the analysis of the trajectories and can be applied in both head-fixed and free-swimming conditions.', u'/content/early/2016/05/10/052324', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u"Ecole Normale Superieure, PSL Research University, CNRS, Inserm, Institut de Biologie de l'ENS"]]
[u'Bacteria regulate choanoflagellate development with lipid activators, inhibitors, and synergists', ['Arielle Woznica', 'Alexandra M. Cantley', 'Christine Beemelmanns', 'Elizaveta Freinkman', 'Jon Clardy', 'Nicole King'], u'May 10, 2016.', u"In choanoflagellates, the closest living relatives of animals, multicellular 'rosette' development is regulated by environmental bacteria. The simplicity of this evolutionarily-relevant interaction provides an opportunity to identify the molecules and regulatory logic underpinning bacterial regulation of development. We find that the rosette-inducing bacterium Algoriphagus machipongonensis produces three structurally divergent classes of bioactive lipids that, together, activate, enhance, and inhibit rosette development in the choanoflagellate S. rosetta. One class of molecules, the lysophosphatidylethanolamines (LPEs), elicits no response on its own, but synergizes with activating sulfonolipid rosette inducing factors (RIFs) to recapitulate the full bioactivity of live Algoriphagus. LPEs, while ubiquitous in bacteria and eukaryotes, have not previously been implicated in the regulation of a host-microbe interaction. This study reveals that multiple bacterially-produced lipids converge to activate, enhance, and inhibit multicellular development in a choanoflagellate.", u'/content/early/2016/05/10/052399', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of California, Berkeley;', u'Harvard Medical School;', u'Leibniz Institute for Natural Product Research and Infection Biology e.V.;', u'Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research;', u'HHMI/University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'A Zika virus-associated microcephaly case with background exposure to STORCH agents', ['Mauro M Hanaoka', 'Alexandre Fligelman Kanas', 'Carla Torres Braconi', 'Erica Araujo Mendes', 'Robert Andreata Santos', 'Luis Carlos de Souza Ferreira', 'Marielton dos Passos Cunha', 'Patricia Beltrao-Braga', 'Joao Leonardo Mendonca Dias', 'Carolina Manganeli Polonio', 'David Anibal Garrido Andrade', 'Carla Longo de Freitas', 'Cristiano Rossato', 'Wesley Nogueira Brandao', 'Jean Pierre Schatzmann Peron', 'Antonio Gomes Amorim Filho', 'Joelma Queiroz Andrade', 'Rossana Pulcineli Vieira Francisco', 'Fernando Kok', 'Lisa Suzuki', 'Claudia da Costa Leite', 'Leandro Tavares Lucato', 'Amadou Alpha Sall', 'Paolo Marinho de Andrade Zanotto'], u'May 10, 2016.', u'We present a case of microcephaly associated with Zika virus (ZIKV) in a chronological, multimodal imaging approach, illustrating the hallmarks of this disease on intrauterine morphological ultrasound, transfontanelar ultrasound, computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).  We also determined the serological e immunological status of the mother and newborn.  Noticeably, there was evidence for maternal infection by ZIKV, cytomegalovirus (CMV), herpes simplex virus (HSV), dengue virus (DENV) and Toxoplasma gondii, which indicates a possible role of previous exposures to STORCH agents and possibly comorbidities in the severe fetal congenital manifestation.', u'/content/early/2016/05/10/052340', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Radiology, Institute of Radiology;', u'Department of Microbiology, Institute of BIomedical Sciences;', u'Surgery Department, Faculdade de Medicina Veterinaria;', u'Department of Immunology - Institute of BIomedical Sciences;', u'Department of Immunology -Institute of BIomedical Sciences;', u'Department of Immunology-Institute of BIomedical Sciences;', u'Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Central Institute, Hospital das Clinicas;', u'Division of Child Neurology, Department of Neurology, Hospital das Clinicas;', u'Pediatric Radiology Division, Department of Radiology;', u'Neuroradiology Division, Department of Radiology;', u'Institute Pasteur in Dakar']]
[u'Male density and rapid evolution of genital morphology in the seed beetle Callosobruchus maculatus', ['Deanna Soper', 'Willow Macy'], u'May 10, 2016.', u'Male reproductive structures are known to be extremely diverse, particularly in insect taxa.  Male genital structures are thought to be some of the fastest evolving traits, but the processes responsible for this pattern remain unclear.  In the present study we manipulated the mating regimes of Callosobruchus maculatus, a seed beetle, to determine if male genital structures would be altered under forced monogamy and polyandry.  Males in this species have an intromittent organ that contains spines that are known to puncture the female reproductive tract.  We measured both testes size and genital spine length in monogamous and polyandrous treatments over seven generations.  We found that testes size was not significantly different between treatments, but that genital spine length was significantly longer in the polyandrous treatment within seven generations.  These results highlight the fact that evolution can occur rapidly when under strong sexual selection, a process that has been implicated in leading to morphological differences in male genitalia.', u'/content/early/2016/05/10/052332', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Iowa;', u'Beloit College']]
[u'Impacts of white-tailed deer on regional patterns of forest tree recruitment', ['Donald Macgregor Waller', 'Donald M. Waller'], u'May 10, 2016.', u'Local, short- to medium-term studies make clear that white-tailed deer can greatly suppress tree growth and survival in palatable tree species.  To assess how deer have broadly affected patterns of tree recruitment across northern Wisconsin, we analyzed recruitment success in 11 common trees species that vary in palatability across 13,105 USFS - FIA plots sampled between 1983 and 2013. We also examined how recruitment in these species covaried with estimated deer densities here. Saplings of five palatable species were scarce relative to less palatable species and showed highly skewed distributions. Scarcity and skew provide reliable signals of deer impacts even when deer have severely reduced recruitment and/or no reliable deer density data are available.  Deer densities ranged from 2.3-23 deer per km2 over a 30 year period. Sapling numbers in two maples (Acer) and aspen (Populus) with intermediate palatability declined sharply in apparent response to higher deer density. Path analysis also reveals that deer act to cumulatively depress sapling recruitment in these species over successive decades. Together, these approaches show that deer have strongly depressed sapling recruitment in all taxa except Abies and Picea. As these impacts are now propagating into larger sized trees, deer are also altering canopy composition composition and dynamics. The tools developed here provide efficient and reliable indicators for monitoring deer impacts on forest tree recruitment using consistent data collected by public agencies.', u'/content/early/2016/05/10/052357', [u'Ecology'], [u'Univ. of Wisconsin - Madison']]
[u'On the evolutionary origins of equity', ['Stephane Debove', 'Nicolas Baumard', 'Jean-Baptiste Andre'], u'May 10, 2016.', u"Equity, defined as reward according to contribution, is considered a central aspect of human fairness in both philosophical debates and scientific research. Despite large amounts of research on the evolutionary origins of fairness, the evolutionary rationale behind equity is still unknown. Here, we investigate how equity can be understood in the context of the cooperative environment in which humans evolved. We model a population of individuals who cooperate to produce and divide a resource, and choose their cooperative partners based on how they are willing to divide the resource. Agent-based simulations, an analytical model, and extended simulations using neural networks provide converging evidence that equity is the best evolutionary strategy in such an environment: individuals maximize their fitness by dividing benefits in proportion to their own and their partners' relative contribution. The need to be chosen as a cooperative partner thus creates a selection pressure strong enough to explain the evolution of preferences for equity. We discuss the limitations of our model, the discrepancies between its predictions and empirical data, and how interindividual and intercultural variability fit within this framework.", u'/content/early/2016/05/10/052290', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Ecole normale superieure']]
[u'Reference-based phasing using the Haplotype Reference Consortium panel', ['Po-Ru Loh', 'Petr Danecek', 'Pier Francesco Palamara', 'Christian Fuchsberger', 'Yakir A Reshef', 'Hilary K Finucane', 'Sebastian Schoenherr', 'Lukas Forer', 'Shane McCarthy', 'Goncalo R Abecasis', 'Richard Durbin', 'Alkes L Price'], u'May 10, 2016.', u'Haplotype phasing is a fundamental problem in medical and population genetics. Phasing is generally performed via statistical phasing within a genotyped cohort, an approach that can attain high accuracy in very large cohorts but attains lower accuracy in smaller cohorts. Here, we instead explore the paradigm of reference-based phasing. We introduce a new phasing algorithm that attains high accuracy across a broad range of cohort sizes by efficiently leveraging information from large external reference panels (such as the Haplotype Reference Consortium, HRC) using a new data structure based on the positional Burrows-Wheeler transform. Our method improves phasing accuracy by >2x compared to the best publicly available alternative for phasing small European-ancestry cohorts, and it attains a \u224820x speedup and \u224810% increase in accuracy compared to reference-based phasing using SHAPEIT2. Our method is freely available for reference-based phasing using the HRC panel via the Sanger Imputation Service and the Michigan Imputation Server.', u'/content/early/2016/05/10/052308', [u'Genetics'], [u'Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'European Academy of Bozen/Bolzano (EURAC);', u'Harvard University;', u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology;', u'Medical University of Innsbruck;', u'University of Michigan']]
[u'The Decay of Disease Association with Declining Linkage Disequilibrium: A Fine Mapping Theorem', ['Mehdi Maadooliat', 'Naveen K Bansal', 'Jiblal Upadhya', 'Manzur R Farazi', 'Zhan Ye', 'Xiang Li', 'Steven J Schrodi'], u'May 10, 2016.', u'Several important and fundamental aspects of disease genetics models have yet to be described.  One such property is the relationship of disease association statistics at a marker site closely linked to a disease causing site.  A complete description of this two-locus system is of particular importance to experimental efforts to fine map association signals for complex diseases.  Here, we present a simple relationship between disease association statistics and the decline of linkage disequilibrium from a causal site.  A complete derivation of this relationship from a general disease model is shown for very large sample sizes.  Quite interestingly, this relationship holds across all modes of inheritance.  Extensive Monte Carlo simulations using a disease genetics model applied to chromosomes subjected to a standard model of recombination are employed to better understand the variation around this fine mapping theorem due to sampling effects.  We also use this relationship to provide a framework for estimating properties of a non-interrogated causal site using data at closely linked markers.  We anticipate that understanding the patterns of disease association decay with declining linkage disequilibrium from a causal site will enable more powerful fine mapping methods.', u'/content/early/2016/05/10/052381', [u'Genetics'], [u'Marquette University;', u'Marshfield Clinic Research Foundation']]
